16

By SuziE ECKL
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team hit the field this week and walked
away with a tally in each column: a 17-9 loss to George
Washington on Friday and a 7-6 win over Lehigh on
Sunday.

The Colonials of George Washington came out shoot-
ing and jumped to an early 3-0 lead within the first seven
minutes before Eloise Grose ’06, the Wildcats’ top goal-
scorer on the season so far, put one in off an assist from
Emily Palmer ’08. The Wildcats could get only three
goals in the half, the other two coming off the sticks of
Kiften Stephens ’06 and Emily Diefendorf ’08.

After the break, the day’s high scorer, Becky Horton
09, tallied a goal, but again GW scored three in a row

and soon secured the win. The goals of Anna Mitchell .

08, Sarah Walter ’08 and Palmer were not enough to put
Davidson ahead, and the Wildcats trailed the entire game.
Colonial Laura Wunk recorded five goals and an assist on
the day. Davidson lost the shot battle 18-36 and commit-
ted 22 turnovers to the Colonials’ 15. Co-captain Leslie
Smith ’06 made 10 saves in net.

“GW was tough because our energy came out flat in the
first half,” said Diefendorf. “We just needed to have our
intensity from the beginning and keep it throughout the
whole game.”

Two days later, Davidson faced Lehigh, again as the
visiting team. Lehigh started the scoring less than three
minutes into the game, but this time Davidson was ready
to answer. Palmer netted her 12th and 13th goals of the
season, and with just 0:36 remaining on the clock in the

first period, Diefendorf put the Wildcats in the lead which
they would keep for the rest of the game.

“The integrity and strength of our team was greatly
shown this weekend as we were able to rebound from a
tough loss against GW to defeat Lehigh just two days
later,” said Smith. “We were able to quickly learn from
our mistakes and come out with strength and confidence
from the first draw.”

Up 4-3 at the half, the Wildcats did what they could to
preserve their lead with a goal by Grose and back-to-back
goals by co-captain Missy Gilbert ’06, but Lehigh did not
go quietly. Trailing by only three, Lehigh scored an unas-
sisted goal at the 13:08 mark, and then with just over a
minute remaining on the clock, it brought it within one.
Wildcat goaltender Smith, with 17 saves on the night, did
not let in another as Davidson squeaked out with the win.

“We came out pumped up and ready to play them,” said
Diefendorf. “We knew right from the start that we could
win that game. I think that’s a key aspect to winning:
believing and following through. Towards the end, we
were making game-changing mistakes on the attacking
side with missing and overthrowing passes.”

Lehigh’s shot totals outnumbered Davidson’s 33 to 20,
and Davidson once more committed the majority of
turnovers with 17.

“We have our two big games this weekend, Ohio State
and Ohio U,” said Diefendorf. “We really need to make
sure we come out with confidence so that we can beat
these teams.”

The Wildcats now sit at 6-3 on the season, and will try
for their seventh win at 12 p.m. on Friday when they face
Ohio University in Ohio.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 239, 2006

Wildcats eclipse last season’s win total, now 6-3

Lacrosse, seen here in a home game earlier this season, lost
to George Washington 9-17, but won at Lehigh 7-6.

Baseball drops three at Furman, falls to 1-5 in SoCon

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

The baseball team struggled this weekend
against Furman, who swept the ’Cats by
scores of 19-2, 6-0 and 16-4 in Greenville,
S.C.

The Paladins improved to 14-8 overall
and 3-0 in the SoCon, while Davidson
dropped to 10-13 overall and 1-5 in the
Southern Conference with the three losses.
The team also extended a frustrating losing
streak to eight games after beginning the sea-
son with victories in nine of their first 12
games.

As the score suggests, the first game of the
series went very badly for the ’Cats, who fell
behind early by allowing three runs in the
first inning.

The Paladins went on to put another run on
the board in the third inning, increasing their
lead to 4-0. Davidson came back in the
fourth with two runs on RBI hits from Rob

Wilson ’07 and Dan Obermeier ’06.
Furman’s lead narrowed to 4-2.

In the bottom of the fourth, the Paladins
answered Davidson’s two runs with three,
making the score 7-2. From there, Furman
cruised, scoring three runs in the fifth and
nine in the sixth to finish the game with a
commanding 19-2 victory. The Paladins fin-
ished with 20 hits, including five doubles
and two three-run home runs.

“Lately we haven’t been pitching well,”

After starting 10-5, the baseball team hes now lost eight games in a row.

said Alex Entrekin ’06, “and when we have,
our bats have gone silent at inopportune
times.”

The second game went better for the
Wildcats, who tied Furman in the hits col-
umn with nine but struggled to translate that
to the scoreboard in a 6-0 loss. Hugh Eden
08 did especially well offensively, going
three for four. ,

‘Wilson turned in an excellent perform-
ance on the mound, throwing the first com-
plete game of the season for Davidson while
allowing only three earned runs, a stark con-
trast from Furman’s offensive onslaught the
previous day. Davidson left runners on base
in each of the first seven innings and strand-
ed two more in the ninth. In addition, the
team trailed by only two until the eighth

inning, when Furman cushioned their lead
with four runs.

Unfortunately for Davidson, the third
game followed a similar script to the first
one.

This time, the ’Cats began their scoring on
a solo home run in the first from Wilson, his
third of the year. That lead did not last long,
as Furman answered with two runs in the
bottom of the first, then went on a six-run
tear in the second.

By the end of two innings, Davidson
found itself down 8-1. It did not get much
better during the next four innings, as
Furman put eight more runs on the board.
The ’Cats scored three runs in the last three
innings to close the game with a score of 16-
4. Ronnie Shore ’06 drove in two of the three
runs on a home run in the ninth.

Next up for the ’Cats are home games on
Mar. 28 against Wake Forest and Mar. 29
against Brown, followed by a three-game
home series this weekend against Georgia
Southern. Davidson will look to end their
losing streak .and begin to climb back into
the SoCon standings.

“We are still confident going into every
game,” said Entrekin. “We feel that Wake
and Brown both offer chances to turn things
around. We’re always excited to play Ivy
Leaguers and we’ve had enough success
against Wake (three wins in a row) that we
feel like we can beat them with a good show-

”

Player of the Week

Lora Dushanova ‘06

Women’s Tennis

Hometown: Silven, Bulgaria

Major: Undeclared

With four.wins this week, two in the conference, Dushanova
has improved to a personal singles record of 11-3 overall and 8-
3 at the number six position. She has won nine straight singles
matches, her last loss occurring on Mar. 2, and is unbeaten in

SoCcon duals.

Smith stops 17 against Lehigh

Up by one goal with just over a minute left, the lacrosse
team held off the offensive efforts of Lehigh thanks to the
efforts of goalkeeper co-captain Leslie Smith 'o6. The sen-
_jor from Fairfax, Va., made 17 stops in Sunday's lacrosse
match, just one shy from her career high, and assisted her

team in bringing their season record up to 6-3.

