4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

counselors, addresses concerns

By EmiLy Kota
Senior Staff Writer

Fall 2007 housing plans are currently
underway for Davidson students. The
Residence Life Office (RLO) is busy with
the upcoming housing lottery, residence hall
improvements and renovations and a short-
age of female hall counselors.

RLO recently began advertising to attract
applicants for two remaining female hall
counselor positions.

This year’s applicant pool was very com-
petitive, and a second round of recruitment is
not uncommon.

“This year is very similar to pre-
vious years. In five out of the last
six years, we have had a second
phase of recruiting for hall coun-
selors, although the gender has
been different in some of those
years.”
--Leslie Marsicano
Director of Residence Life

“This year is very similar to previous
years,” Director of Residence Life and
Associate Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano said. “In five out of the last six
years, we have had a second phase of recruit-
ing for hall counselors, although the gender
has been different in some of those years.”

Christie Brough ’07, a current hall coun-
selor, praised the program.

“It has been the most amazing experience.

I’ve gotten to know a bunch of different peo-
ple that I would not have met otherwise. I
would highly recommend becoming a hall
counselor,” Brough said.

In contrast, the applicant’ pool for resident
advisors was unusually large this year.
Although Marsicano regretted having to turn
away so many qualified applicants, she still

. hopes:these students will consider applying

for hall counselor positions as juniors next
year.

This past week, RLO held a mandatory
meeting for students interested in getting
permission to live off campus next year.

“T was blown away by the number of peo-
ple at the meeting,” Marsicano said.

She estimated that over 200 students
attended, indicating increased interest in liv-
ing off campus next year.

While she does expect to give more off
campus permission than normal for the
upcoming year, Marsicano fears some stu-
dents may be stuck paying two rents if they
sign a lease for off campus housing before
receiving permission from the college.

“Don’t sign a lease until you have off-
campus permission in hand,” Marsicano
said.

Davidson is designed as a residential col-
lege and as a result, Marsicano explained
that students cannot live off campus if it cre-
ates a vacancy on campus.

The lottery for senior housing is also
approaching quickly.

The rising senior class is larger than nor-
mal, with 461 students, and there are only
342 spaces in Martin Court.

See RLO, page 5

ON UNIVERSITY

™" SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro -— August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Web site: law.elon.edu
for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW = E-mail: law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED
LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

= Emphases on total student development, exceptional Jegal knowledge and
skills, leadership and civic involvement,and international study

® Learning experiences in the area's leading law firms, federal and state courts,

8 Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation

in the school’s courtroom and facilities

= Partner with the American Judicature Society's institute of Forensic Science
and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

NEWS
RLO recruits more female hall Ba

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

Davidson’s College Bowl team will compete at the National Championship in May.

Bowl, from page 1

can have a shot at playing for Davidson. All
they have to do is find a few friends, pick a
team name and sign up for our tournament.”

The team holds tryouts for members after
the campus-wide tournament held in the fall.

“We keep statistics on every single partic-
ipant, and the best players in that tournament
will get an invitation to try out for the varsi-
ty team,” Gibert said. “From that group we
pick the eight people we’re allowed to have
on the varsity team.”

Gibert also believes that support from the
Davidson community influences the team’s
performance at tournaments.

“Davidson professors — full professors —
moderate matches and help out with prac-
tice,” Gibert said. “If I were the coach at, say,
Harvard, I probably wouldn’t have a hope of
getting a full professor to participate in
something like this. From what I hear, a lot
of teachers at other schools just think that
College Bowl is some silly trivia game.
Davidson professors think it’s fun and inter-

esting.”

Registrar and professor of German and
Humanities Hansford Epes and Nancy and
Erwin Maddrey Professor and Chair of
Psychology Ruth Ault are among the profes-
sors who have helped the team.

Director of the College Union William
Brown and Quinton McKissick from RLO
also helped organize the campus-wide tour-
nament in the fall.

Compeau believes Gibert is the reason that
Davidson has such a high-caliber team.

“T think that our coach, Dr. James Gibert
does an impeccable job of preparing us, in
finding slews and slews of questions, statis-
tically analyzing our opponents, and moti-
vating us exceptionally well,” Compeau
said. “He organizes one of the largest intra-
mural tournaments that College Bowl
schools will ever see, despite us being the
smallest school to be represented at the
national competition.”

The team will continue their 90-minute
practices twice a week to prepare for the
national tournament.

a

Sarah Carlson, MD

3

Family Medicine
Our mission at Davidson Family Medicine is to provide a comprehensive,
personalized health care in a respectful, caring enviornment,
Our services include pynecology/women’s healthcare, travel medical
assesments wth vaccines, pediatrics, and male health care.
We are located beside the Post Office and behind the Soda Shop at
104 Knox Court

‘Davidson Class ‘82
www.DavidsonFamilyMedicine.com

Craig White, MD

