THE DAVIDSONIAN
Gas prices: the

power 1S yours
“The price of gas, is ridicu-
lous!”

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Europeans would. gladly pay
our gas prices, but that isn’t our
concern. We are worried about the
imminent summer months and the
inescapable driving.

So shall we just sit around and
complain?

Or maybe we should do that
& Democrat versus Republican
thing.

Or we could just rail on
President Bush.

That would be fun. .

On Friday Bush said that he refuses to tax oil companies’
record profits, but, he said, “My attitude is that the oil com-
panies need to be mindful that the American people expect
them to reinvest their cash flows in such a way that it
enhances our energy security.”

Need to be mindful?! Right. Oil companies investing in
alternative energy
sources. That’s a
good one. Is that a
paradox or an oxy-
moron? ;

How about a
$100 rebate to tax-
payers to cushion
the cost of gas?

That will proba-
bly buy about 20 to
25 gallons of gas
when demand
spikes by late sum-
mer as families load
up their buses and
head to the coast.

We could build
new refineries since
this has not been
done since the
1970s. The Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge sounds promising. According to
the U.S. Geological Survey there are about 10 billion barrels

CAREY BAXTER

”
courtesy photo

Who can fix gas prices? You.

of oil to be had from 2,000 acres, which is less than one-half

of one percent of the entire refuge (which is 20 million
acres).

At least the Bush administration has not instituted price
controls.

Since good ol’ supply and demand have been left in
charge there have been no gas lines or shortages like there
were in 1979 under the Carter administration (when prices
were controlled).

But Bush is trying to fool demand by stopping new
deposits to U.S. oil reserve tanks until after the summer
driving season. This quick fix (like the rebate) points to a
looming monster for which we should have been preparing
long ago.

So now Bush says, “These oil prices are a wake-up call...
We need to get off oil.”

Om...hello?

And now he wants Congress to ‘give him the power to set
fuel standards for passenger cars so as to reduce demand for
gas. Another temporary solution.

The real solution? It lies in our hands.

Yes, you and me.

The only people who can fix the huge demand for gaso-
line are you and me.

So are we going to go home (or wherever) this summer
and thoughtlessly drive around like we always have and
merely groan as we refill our tanks?

Well, we’ll be fueling the problem.

Carpool, consolidate trips, trade in for smaller and/or

hybrid cars.

- A little less peeling out and revving at stop lights. A little
more walking, biking and using public transportation, if
possible.

We are the proud capitalists who hold the keys to supply
and demand.

So let’s spank demand, and let’s support alternative ener-
gy sources (like ethanol, biodiesel, hydrogen, and the plug-
in hybrid car).

Carey Baxter ’08 is a physics major from Monkton, Mad.
Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

Commencement:

By Matt ALLEN
Guest Columnist

@

As a member of the senior class, I have approximately
eleven days left to enjoy the life of an undergraduate. On
May 14, I will walk across the stage beneath the soaring
oaks of Chambers lawn with around four hundred of my fel-
low seniors and travel into a somewhat frightening place that
has been given the ominous title of “the real world.”

Ironically enough, we use the word commencement,
whose root word means “to have or make a beginning,” to
describe this weekend where Davidson’s class of 2006 will
come together for one last time.

So how does Davidson honor the end of an incredible four
years of growth in knowledge and character?

The same way it began the four years, with a speech by
President Bobby Vagt.

I am not trying to suggest that I will not continue to cher-
ish the President’s constant words of wisdom echoed
throughout my four years here.

However, what I am trying to suggest is that maybe we
should reward the graduating students with a complimenta-
ry message given by a fresh face; a message that may ulti-
mately spark memories that last a lifetime.

This is not a lightly-made suggestion meant to undermine
the quality of our president’s eloquence or articulation; it is
instead a reflection that c comes from personal experience and
real conviction. :

I know I will always remember my high school com-
mencement speaker for his poignant words of wisdom, yet
for some reason my headmaster’s comments that followed
seem to get blurred with the many speeches and the pieces
of advice that I had received from him on a personal level.

Originally, the argument was made to get rid of the
Commencement Day speaker in the early 1960s in an effort
to make the graduates the main focus on Commencement
weekend.

This argument soon became a reality when an exception-
ally long-winded speaker dragged on endlessly, boring stu-
dents and guests alike.

Well, can we not set a rigid time limit for guest speakers?

I mean we definitely allow guests to speak at other events

Davidson liberals

Ladies and gentlemen, allow
me to introduce one of the most
powerful forces in the universe.
It’s called irony and it wields a
* baseball bat of Bambinan propor-
> tions.

face the nathan

But where are my manners?
Let me start with a word of con-
gratulations to a distinguished
Davidson alumnus. My saluta-
tions to Robert A. “Tony” Snow,
Davidson Class of 1977, upon
being named White House Press
Secretary last Wednesday.

In his time here, it seems that Snow was, to borrow a
phrase, “distinctly Davidson.” President of his senior class,
Eu Society, pep band, hall counselor, Vereen Bell winner,
filmmaking award winner, Delta Sigma Rho debate honor
society, Omicron Delta Kappa leadership honor society and
a downright upstanding Davidsonian, Mr. Snow represents
the ideals of everyone here at Davidson.

Right? Aren’t we all proud to say we are following in the
footsteps of Mr. Snow? Won’t we all be contacting him
about internships with FOX after we graduate?

After all, we are one of the most conservative elite col-
leges in the nation. And before you sputter the phrase “lib-
eral arts” and stress the first word so hard you pop a gasket,
I’ll thank you to differentiate between political and educa-
tional contexts for the term “liberal.”

The unfortunate fact is that Davidson is, in 2006, one of
the most conservative colleges out there. We don’t hold a
candle to Liberty or Bob Jones. But every time I return to
Asheville, which I affectionately call a chunk California
misplaced on the East Coast, friends make an assumption.

“You must be really happy at such a conservative school.
That’s gotta be a perfect fit for you.”

Well, they got the second part right. I love Davidson and
I’m happy to be here. But in no way do I find our school to
be the bastion of Republicans and Bible-thumpers it seems

NATHAN BRADSHAW

other colleges think we are. I have shocked people repeated- .

ly by giving the statistic from last year’s campus poll:
Davidson voted for Kerry over Bush 58-35.

News to us? Heck no. To the rest of the world, though, the
red of Davidson’s logo might as well be the same shade
South Carolina gets painted on ABC every four years.

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

time for change

under a time constriction and without the fear that he or she
may break this constriction and ultimately bore the audience.

And is it not the point of a Commencement speaker to
bring in someone who will not only highlight the accom-
plishments of the class on whose behalf he or she is speak-
ing, but to also give the class a public representative to be
remembered by?

11

We should reward the graduating
students with a complimentary
message given by a fresh face; a
message that may ultimately spark
memories that last a lifetime.

Isn’t the point of a Commencement speaker to honor the
graduating class, or in other words, to place an emphasis
(a.k.a. focus) on the graduates?

A Commencement speaker is a time-honored tradition val-
ued by most colleges and universities around the country.

Aren’t we, as seniors, entitled to bring an esteemed mem-
ber of society to stand in recognition for the class?

The fact that we spend three hours on a single day to rec-
ognize the success of four years of hard work demonstrates
the importance of this celebration.

We pay a ridiculous amount of money to bring Bob Dylan
and others to Davidson College in order to spend a night
appreciating their musical endeavors and talents, why can’t
we spend a similar amount of money on someone who will
reward the graduating class with a powerful intellectual
reflection that will reverberate for many years to follow?

In an effort to truly “let learning be cherished,” Davidson
College should ask the students, the people who are ultimate-
ly affected the most by this outdated decision, if it is time to
once again take a look at. and quite possibly, change, our pol-
icy towards Commencement Day speakers.

Matt Allen '06 is an English major from Crofton, Md.
Contact him at maallen@davidson.edu.

outfoxed by Snow

So would they be surprised that Tony Snow is a Wildcat?
Not really. But I certainly have gotten a chuckle out of it.

I mean, look at it. You have a college that’s close to 2-1
against Bush by student vote (I dare not speculate on facul-
ty votes...but I will observe that Bush would likely have guf-
fawed at this fall's Yowl) suddenly proudly touting the face
of FOX and now PR man for Dubya.

Forgive me, but did I notice more than one perspectives
article this semester that associated a mean word or two with
FOX, the President or both? Somewhere between press
release and campus opinion, Davidson pulled a switcheroo.

DAVIDSON.

Tony enow Tre 77, speaking at Davidson in 2002.

Is it a coincidence that the audience for Bill Kristol’s lec-
ture earlier this semester comprised easily as many senior
citizens as it did students?

Look, we all know where I stand personally: firmly on the
right-(note: on, not in). But shockingly, I value the left, even
beyond the entertainment of their cute primaries every pres-
idential electoral year.

And frankly, I’m tired of the reverse not being true. Let’s
really celebrate Tony Snow. Let’s really talk about issues
instead of letting the louder argument carry the day.

And most of all, let’s not talk smack about FOX without a

dose of criticism of CNN and the New York Times, too.

Nathan Bradshaw
Swannanoa, ° NIC,
nabradshaw @davidson.edu

08 is an English major from
Contact him at

_

©
