THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006 3

Recycle, from page 1

Delta Theta said they throw cans and trash in
the same bin during house clean up.

Several pledges from Kappa Alpha and
some freshmen members of Connor Eating
House also said that they often do not recy-
cle.

There is currently no recycling policy to
which the fraternities and eating houses must
adhere.

Patterson Court Council President Chris
Dwyer ’07 said that “the houses are strongly
encouraged to recycle.”

The senior apartments are another area on
campus where recycling has been a problem

Unlike the rest of campus housing, the jan-
itorial staff does not clean the senior apart-
ments.

Instead, the seniors are responsible for tak-
ing their trash and recycling to the bins
behind the dorms.

According to Blake and the recycling
report, seniors often do not recycle, or they
contaminate the recycling bins with articles
like cardboard pizza boxes, which cannot be
recycled.

Blake’s original goal was to put outdoor
recycling bins around campus.

Members of the Physical Plant, however,
said that the SGA must improve the current
recycling program before they would pro-
vide new bins.

SGA is currently discussing improvements

to the current recycling program, including
new recycling bins for incoming first-years.
SGA has been working with Associate

_ Dean of Students and Director of Residence

Life Leslie Marsicano to get small blue recy-
cling bins next year for all of the first-year
rooms.

First-years will still need toé sort paper and

plastic into the hall bins, but Blake said the.

dorm room bins will discourage the incom-
ing class from placing their recycfable bot-
tles and papers in their trash receptacles.

SGA and the EAC are also working to pro-
duce a video to be shown next fall during ori-
entation that will show the proper and
improper ways of recycling. ~

Blake said he wants the video to be
humorous and enjoyable to watch, and hopes
that the video will help to get freshmen in the
habit of recycling.

Marsicano told SGA that if a significant
improvement in: recycling take place on
freshmen halls next fall, the Residence Life
Office is prepared to purchase bins for the
whole school.

In addition, Assistant Director of Building
Services Barbara Zaionz has agreed to the
installation of a large recycling bin in the
Union with slots for batteries and ink car-
tridges in addition to paper, plastic and glass.

Efforis are also being made to encourage
more people to use their Cat Cupps by mak-

ing next year’s models smaller and more

stylish.

—

The Physical Plant puts recycling bins on each hall and in Patterson Court houses.

Speed limit reduced
on South Main Street

By EMILy KoTA

Senior Staff Writer

The speed limit on South Main Street in
Davidson is now 25 mph, reduced from 35
miles per hour. Police officers began warn-
ing Davidson locals of the change last week
before the new speed limit signs were erect-
ed.

Davidson resident and _ History
Department chair Dr. Sally McMillen
praised the change.

“It’s an excellent idea,” McMillen said.

“The speed limit change on Main
Street was part of the plan to
calm traffic in the entire town.”
=-Mallory Nobles ‘07,
former Town Hall intern

Ellen Garfield ’07 recently received a
speeding ticket on interstate 421 shortly after
the speed limit changed from 65 miles per
hour to 55 miles per hour.

“T have a court date and hundreds of dol-
lars in classes and court fees, but I also liter-
ally drive under the speed limit now,”
Garfield said.

While Garfield is frustrated with unex-

pected changes in the speed limit along the
highway, she adds, “I think the reduction in
speed is more understandable on Main Street
than it was on I-421 because in Davidson
there are homes with children, students, and
joggers constantly on the road.”

The speed limit reduction is due in part to
the efforts of the Traffic Calming
Committee, which was founded by local cit-
izens in May 2004.

The town of Davidson’s website states that
the purpose of the Traffic Calming
Committee “is developing a system by
which streets that need traffic calming can be
identified, prioritized, designed, and fund-
ed.”

According to Sara-Lynne Levine, of the
Davidson Town Hall. Public. Information
Office, “Neighbors requested the change as
part of the traffic calming plan.”

The change was approved by
Department of Transportation.

Levine said that the group was set up out
of the town Planning Department. The town
website states, “The Planning Department is
dedicated to preserving Davidson’s essence
as a small town. ;

New development must be walkable, sus-
tainable and designed to enhance the life of
the community.”

Mallory Nobles ’07 interned at Town Hall

See Speed, page 4

the

Skelton sets forth goals

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

Newly elected Student Government
Association president Mac Skelton °07
seized the opportunity to outline the organi-
zation’s goals for the semester at the
February 16 meeting.

Working .from a packet compiled by the
outgoing Ryan Arnold ’06 administration,
Skelton reviewed SGA’s recent accomplish-
ments and pinpointed issues upon which he
hopes to focus until the fall of 2006.

“Because we don’t have the [SGA] retreat
until fall, the spring semester becomes direc-
tionless,” Skelton said.

He said he hoped reviewing and tweaking
the previous administration’s goals would
allow SGA to achieve a focus for the spring
semester.

Skelton addressed the organization’s inter-
nal efficiency, an issue that arises in every
administration.

“This is an ongoing goal for every admin-
istration; we’re never going to check it off
the list,” he said.

Skelton called for a committee to prepare
a report reviewing SGA elections in prepara-
tion for the upcoming March elections.

He then addressed the ongoing issues sur-
rounding the SGA bylaws, again calling for a
committee to formulate a solid plan of action
to bring before the body.

Skelton hopes that relying on committees
to investigate issues before discussing them
will save wasted debate during meetings,
thereby allowing SGA to cover more materi-
al during its meetings.

The senators next discussed means
through which they might increase commu-
nication with the student body. Discussion
centered on installing an SGA publicity bul-
letin board in the Union and acquiring a sug-
gestion box to be placed outside of the SGA
office.

“Tt will give us a real visible presence on
campus,” said senator Christina Evans ’06.

The relationship between SGA and the
Committee on Campus and Religious Life
(CCRL) also came up during discussion.

Skelton proposed the institution of a two-

THE
gcd logy,
LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'06
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy

Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

week lapse between a CCRL resolution and
President Vagt’s final decision, during which
time period SGA could review the issue at
hand and offer its opinion.

The legitimacy of this concern was ques-
tioned by other meeting attendees, however.

“It’s rare that [Vagt] acts that quickly,”
Vice President of Student Life and Dean of
Students Tom Shandley said.

SGA then addressed its ongoing efforts to
improve campus environmental policies.
The senators discussed next year’s in-room
recycling bin pilot program for freshmen
halls and the feasibility of producing an
environmental awareness video for the
incoming freshman class.

The senators also debated instituting, in
conjunction with the Environmental Action
Committee, a switch from the current 22-
ounce Cat Cupps to a smaller, more stylish
16-ounce version.

As SGA debated ways to change campus
environmental policies, independent senator
Dana Jackson ’09 questioned the example
that SGA was setting.

Holding up the meeting’s agenda, which
consisted of an entire page only half-covered
with typing, she asked why the agendas were
not printed on half sheets of paper.

“If we’re going to be serious about [recy-
cling], we need to do it here, too,” she said.

Several senators suggested that the agen-
da be projected onto the screen in the
Sprinkle Room during future meetings
which would entirely bypass the production
of paper waste.

Discussion then moved onto the fate of the
Vamanos Van.

Shandley suggested that, before deciding
the program’s future, SGA should survey
students to determine how they view this
year’s changes to the service.

“It might be useful to see if the changes
have been effective. I don’t think anyone has
asked that yet,” he said.

As the meeting approached the hour-long
mark, Skelton moved to wrap up the discus-
sion, suggesting that any updates on student-
faculty relations be tabled due to the absence
of members heavily involved in the
Student/Faculty Relations Committee.

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D.University of Richmond
Commussioner for the Town of Davidson
‘83—'85; 88°-'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

