. ARTS

IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 22, 2006

Small town evils exposed i in “Rimers of Eldritch’

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Struggling with the aftershocks of a moral
earthquake that has rocked their small
Midwestern town, the people of Eldritch are
forced to confront the demons of rape and
the repercussions of being close-minded.
The lovers, friends, and enemies in the play
exchange words reflective of their individual
attempts to hide guilt, cut short intimacy, and
put up fronts that ultimately proves fragile.

Small-town scandal, gossip, and specula-
tion reign supreme in Lanford Wilson’s “The
Rimers of Eldritch,” which takes the stage in
the Duke Family Performance Hall begin-
ning Mar. 29. Rape is the undercurrent in this
river of clashing neighbors, and the charac-
ters egg each other on with provocative dia-
logue to which anyone from a small commu-
nity should be able to relate.

Visiting Associate Professor of Theatre
Jack Beasley, the director of this spring’s
annual Theatre Department production,
honed this dialogue intentionality through
extensive, all-cast rehearsals. To capture the
climactic nature of Wilson’s play, set during
the tumultuous 1960s, Beasley decided to
have all characters on stage during each of
the scenes.

The scenes, which have no definite begin-
ning, middle or end, create continuous action
that reflects the rapid pace of change during
the decade. With what Beasley calls a “col-
lage effect,” the actors revert from familiar,
realistic models that most are used to and use

their reactions and lines to
guide the audience through
the ethical drama.

To achieve this effect,
Beasley needed the full par-
ticipation of the 16-member
cast at rehearsals.

Finding a group of
Davidson students with coin-
ciding schedules, however, is
what Beasley cited as his
biggest challenge involved in
this semester’s production.

As described on Oklahoma
State University’s theatre
department website, “the play
grasps at the very fabric of
bible-belt America, with its
catchword morality and capa-
bility for the vicious.”

Davidson’s student actors
grapple with this viciousness,
this hostile politeness hidden
in words that forces an audi-
ence to realize similar moral

” ¢
|
E E ;
ry of Bill Giduz
oe )

Emily Bostian ’06 and Bryant Kirkland ’07 engage in

ambiguity still in existence friendly banter as Steve Kaliski ‘07 looks on.

today.

The tension between the characters,
caught in a matrix of intimacy and secrets,
gives rise to poignant moments throughout
the play.

Walter, played by Ross MacDonald ‘08, is
truly the personification of the town’s inward
struggle. Whenever he gets close to a sensi-
tive issue, balancing on the edge of honesty,
his forced carelessness make his emotions

blindingly evident. He must quickly return to
his conventional swagger to ensure that any
carelessly thrown-about words do not shatter
his comfortable existence.

This: fear of intimacy and vulnerability
permeates every conversation on stage.
Beasley envisions a stage of broken levels —
railings pitted against a free-fall and room
exposed to perceptive visitors. I’ll be eager

to see how the actors use their space while
portraying the emotional and unavoidable
tension between their characters that is sewn
into the fibers of the text.

With the blocking, both literal and theoret-
ical, created by Beasley and stage managers
Briana Hunter ’08 and Steve Foglia ’09, each
character’s gestures and steps transform
emotion into action. The stage and set
remain simple, though, and the townspeo-
ple’s movements do not speak as loud as
their words.

Their voices, however, are stilted at times,
and the emphasis is often dependent on the
actors’ tone.

Herein lies the challenge of such an inter-
pretive play; the actors must treat the script
as yeast in bread, where poorly-applied emo-
tion or inflection either dries out or collapses
the play’s form.

With Melanie Farmer’s and Steve
Kaliski’s professional ease and talent for
familiar, self-explanatory tones, this produc-
tion promises to captivate any audience.
With its double-meanings that pervade the
double-standards of small town society, the
“Rimers of Eldritch” touches on the essence
of man’s fear of vulnerability.

“Rimers of Eldritch” will be showing in
Duke Family Performance Hall from Mar. 29
until Apr. 2.

Tickets for the performances, which are
$12 for the general public, $10 for faculty
and staff, $8 for seniors and $6 for students,
are currently available from the Union Box
Office.

“V for Vendetta” loud, angry, and action-packed

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Those who avoid “V for Vendetta” for its
supposedly abundant political commentaries
need not worry anymore. I assure you that
this new rabble-rouser from the. grandiose
minds of the “Matrix”-famed Wachowski
brothers does not make a single political
statement.

No, the film makes no statements whatso-
ever. Everything “V for Vendetta” says about
politics, it screams in capital letters and ends
in a chain of exclamation points.

A possible tagline for the film might read,
“DOWN WITH CORRUPT GOVERN-
MENT!!!! DOWN WITH IT!!!! DOWN

The world V lives in-is a post-modern
Britain marked by totalitarian rule.

WITH IT NOW!!!”

Cautionary to the point of exhilarating
overabundance, this angry, point-blank,
undeniably animate thriller does not ask for
your attention; it kidnaps it and holds it ruth-
lessly hostage.

Still, much like the film’s heroine Evey,
played by Natalie Portman, who develops an
unlikely friendship with her masked captor
V, played by Hugo Weaving, I found this
excessive ideological abuse strangely
endearing. Perhaps “Vendetta’s” rare big-
budget willingness to say it loud and proud
compensates for the deafening roar of its
provocation.

Set in 2020 London, the movie imagines
that, while the United States has collapsed
from civil war, England has survived
because of the fascist intervention of its Big
Brother dictator Adam Sutler, played by
John Hurt. Sutler’s regime displays all of the
symptoms of totalitarian rule: strict curfews,
exhaustive censorship and citizens either too
terrified or too complacent to question their
oppression.

Evey, a TV station employee with a prob-
lematic past, almost becomes the victim of a
late night assault, but a maksed swashbuck-
ling savior rescues her and takes her under
his wing. She soon learns that this V, a sensi-
tive yet vengeful rebel, actually has a metic-
ulous plan to overthrow Sutler’s rule.

V’s character is based on British revolu-
tionary Guy Fawkes, who was a leader in the
1605 Gunpowder Plot in Great Britain.

To fight what they perceived as the
oppression of the English Protestant church,
a group of Roman Catholic conspirators led
by Fawkes attempted to assassinate King
James I and members of Parliament by hid-
ing 2.5 tons of gunpowder in the
Parliamentary Houses’ cellars. Fawkes’ plot
was foiled, however, after authorities caught
him with the gunpowder.

While his revolutionary plans consequent-
ly failed, his story did become fodder for the
Wachowski brothers’ newest release.

V, with his characteristically mischevious grin, schemes up more revolutionary ideas.

Whether an activist, a patriot or a terrorist,
the character V clearly cares for Evey, and he
eventually draws her into his plot. As she
learns more about him, she realizes that his
rage is legitimate.

Thus, she must wrestle with her sympathy
for him, her sympathy for his cause and her
lingering societal conscience. Has England
become so evil that V’s terrorism is actually
a justified response?

I would have preferred a little more ambi-
guity in the characterizations of oppressed
and oppressor. Because director James
McTeigue portrays the British government
as so inhuman and Evey and V’s relationship
as so passionately righteous, we are left with
little doubt as to how we should answer the
script’s central question.

A more disturbing film would have
endowed ‘Sutler’ $s society with shreds of opti-
mism; then, we would ask how one could

defend terrorism if the society it attacked -

actually performed some good.
Nonetheless, “Vendetta” poses an incendi-
ary question, and it looks good doing it. The

_ film’s visual style perfectly balances a realis-

tic forecast of 2020 with token comic-book
coolness. Pub drunkards still gulp Guinness,
news anchors still obsess about their
onscreen appearances, and detectives still
read e-mail on their Dell desktops, but none
of this stops V from knifing down 10 armed
officers in ten slow-motion seconds.

Portman, an adorable actress who has
never rung true as a badass, finally finds a
niche in the action-adventure world. With
her shaved head and inconsistent but hard-
fought English accent, she creates the kind of
super-female icon that she failed to live up to
as Padme in the recent “Star Wars” trilogy.

Although we never see Weaving’s face, his’
vivacious V matches Evey’s charisma step-
for-step, and the two form a slightly creepy
but oddly likable couple.

Like many pulp entertainments, the film
draws from countless other sources. Part
“1984,” part “Phantom of the Opera,” and
with the slightest dash of “Fight Club,” “V
for Vendetta” does not earn points for subtle-
ty or for utter originality; rather, it triumphs
in its ballsy, visually seductive dedication to
its own anger.
