. ARTS

Davidson catches spring fever

By ALI KARAMI RUIZ
Staff Writer

“It came and then it left. Now we’re wait-
ing for it to come back,” said Chelsea
Henderson ‘09, asked about the long-await-
ed arrival of spring.

While spring officially began on a sleety
Monday last week, many students are eager-
ly waiting for sunnier days to come. With
April at the Lake hosting its first events
Friday, students hope to enjoy what the fore-
casts predict will be sunny weather instead
of the currently chilly conditions.

The first Friday in a series of “Aprils at the
Lake,” which take place at the Lake Campus
each Friday during the month, will feature
performances by campus acappella groups
Androgyny and The Generals.

On the second Friday, Apr. 7, the Dean
Rusk SAC will sponsor an International
Sports and Games Day, giving students the
opportunity to participate in games like
cricket and sample foods from around the
_ world. The winners of the Battle of the

) Bands will also perform.

An Earth Day celebration is in the works
for the Friday following Easter Break. The
next weekend will be a preview of Spring
Frolics, featuring cotton candy and a moon-
walk to entertain students from 7 to 11 p.m.
There will also be quesadillas for munching
and marshmallows for toasting around a
bonfire scheduled for that same night.

“We really want to make April at the Lake
a tradition,” said Sarah Pinson ’08, who is

heading up the activities this year along with
Ben Young ’08.

The P.E. Sailing Class also kicks off next
weekend. The classes, which can accommo-
date five to 10 students per session, take
place on Saturday and Sunday for two week-
ends in a row, with each session lasting for
approximately two hours. At the beginning
of the course, students are taught to deter-
mine wind direction and to understand the
mechanics of sailing.

“We try to keep the lectures to a minimum,
because I feel the best way to learn to sail is
out there on the water playing around and
trying things out,” said Erik Knelson ’07,
who has been teaching sailing since his
freshman year.

During the first meeting, the class also
learns basic safety terms and techniques
related to the sailboats’ operation.

“We try to get sailors out on the water for
a short time the first day so they can get a
taste of actual sailing,” Knelson said.

On the second weekend, the group takes
out the larger keelboats, but at other times
they set up courses and work on race tactics.

“I’m always amazed by how little time
most students have spent at the Lake
Campus; it’s an absolutely incredible facili-
ty,” said Knelson.

“I find sailing enjoyable because you get
to harness the power of the wind into an
exciting shot across the lake.”

With the upcoming warm weather and
abundance of outdoor activites, many stu-
dents are starting to notice a difference in the

Put down ‘Pride and Prejudice,’
pick up that polka-dot bikini

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Step away from the textbooks! Put down
those $100, 100-pound banes of your exis-
tence and look out the window. If the weath-
erman is correct, the sun should be taking off
its cloud blanket and waking up for spring:

Spring is the time for shorts, sunglasses
and days at Lake Norman. In order to shed a
few pounds, I suggest you replace your hefty
school books with Cynthia Lewis’ newest
addition to the real person’s library, “Bikini
Is a State of Mind.”

That’s right. Davidson’s own Professor of
English Cynthia Lewis has collaborated with
friends Nancy Gardner, Ann Haley and Lina
Soares in a hilarious narrative on how to
wear a bikini.

Forget about your average “how to” book,
because these ladies blend readable chatti-
ness with a down-to-earth realization that
self-acceptance enables anyone with the
ability to peel off a few layers, both this sum-
mer and all year round.

“Bikini Is a State of Mind” is not just a
book for the women, gentlemen.

As Lewis said, “Our book is a tongue-in-
cheek manual for becoming ‘bikini-able’ —
taking the plunge, whether into the literal
pool or into a life with fewer inhibitions and
more fun.”

The text includes humorous labeling of
people in our lives that influence perceptions
of ourselves and others, such as “Mr. Ab,”
the pool manager whose name fits his frame,
and “PITAs: Pains in the Ass,” who are the
nemeses of the narrators.

The four women frequent Davidson’s
Summit Coffee shop, and affectionately
thrive in the “Townsies” atmosphere of late-
night wine tasting. Their observations during
these meetings led to a two-year long discus-
sion that cumulated in this book, which tells
women how to live their lives to the fullest.

With their encouraging tone and inclusion
of scrumptious recipes, the authors offer
clever advice to the college student. Reading
the snippets of this conversation between
four middle-aged women personally made
me hope to have the same confidence and
charisma when I reach an age where halters
and strings seem dangerous.

Using specific, side-splitting examples of
their eagerness to be “bikini-able,” whether
by hiring a trainer or feeding their volup-
tuous physiques, the friends lighten a social
stigma which American women always rec-
ognize but rarely embrace.

Why did these self-proclaimed goddesses
write the book? “We think we’re hilarious,”
said Lewis. “We hope readers agree.”

So make light
of the semester’s
end with Lewis
and her pals. Pull
out the bikinis
mew from the back of
your wooden
dorm drawers
and tote along an
extra piece of
me advice from
~ women who
lah have gracefully

esy p -! plunged into the
Lewis’s new book fountain of
youth.

Lewis and her co-authors will be holding a
book celebration party aptly named the
“Goddess Gala” at Summit Coffee on
Tuesday, Apr. 20, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.

The event, which is co-sponsored by
Summit Coffee and Main Street Books, and
will feature a book signing, Greek wine tast-
ing and live music.

If you are interested in picking up a copy
of “Bikini Is A State of Mind,” you can find
one in the Davidson College Bookstore or
through major online bookstores.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 29, 2006

COUTTES\ photo

Phil Ruzycki ‘08 braves cool weather in shorts and t-shirt to read outside yesterday.

general campus atmosphere.

“With happy students buying tickets for
the upcoming Bob Dylan concert in May, a
short Easter Break coming up, and the end of
the school year, I feel like students will use
the warm weather as an incentive to study
outside and get motivated for studying for
finals,” said Danielle Lokaj ’09.

Some students even see a change in the
faculty’s attitudes Said Sarah Petrino ‘09,“I
feel like professors are already in a better
mood.”

Professors are also starting to notice the
change in students’ attitudes.

“I definitely notice creeping slacker ten-
dencies — spotty attendance and diminished

energy,” said Associate Professor of German
Maggie McCarthy.

“In the spring, fatigue is particularly pro-
nounced, maybe because the Christmas
break has shrunk in recent years and one
feels the accumulated weight of an entire
school year,”.she said.

“Unfortunately, professors are much more
tethered to consoles and document cameras
these days, so it’s harder to head for the
Chambers lawn during class time,” she said.

Students, however, realize the benefits of
taking advantage of their opportunities to
relax and enjoy the season. “It’s simple,
sunny days that make students feel happy
and inspired,” said Lee Mimms ‘09.

