IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
- WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 25, 2006

The Goncert Choir sang at Carnegie Hall on Jan. 15th. Pictured with the New
England Symphonic Ensemble, the group performed music by Bach, Handel,
Palestrina, Conrad Susa and others. The Carnegie appearance was the culmi-
nation of a five-day residency in New York City that included a performance at
St. James Episcopal Church on Madison Avenue.

Campus to celebrate
Mozart's birthday

BY REID WILDMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson community will celebrate
the 250th birthday of Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart this Thursday and Friday with a
range of festivities showcasing his musical
genius.

“Mozart’s 250th birthday, and the chance
to recognize someone of his stature, is like a
rare eclipse that happens only once during
our lifetimes, ” said Associate Professor of
Music Neil Lerner.

The celebration begins on Thursday with a
9:30 p.m. screening of the film Amadeus in
Tyler-Tallman Hall.

The next day, several lectures and concerts
will be presented, including a lecture entitled
“Mozart in Hollywood” by Lerner. Associate
Professor of Psychology Greta Munger will
present the lecture “In the Mood: The Real
Mozart Effect.”

The day will conclude with a sing-along
concert of Mozart’s Requiem in D Minor in
the Duke Family Performance Hal led by
Anthony Deaton, Diane Thornton, Kevin
Turner, Jacqueline Culpepper, the Davidson
College Choirs and the Davidson United
Methodist-Church Choir. Following the con-
cert, a giant birthday cake with 250 candles

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart

will be served in the Union Atrium.

Another highlight of the celebration is the
7 p.m. lecture by Bryan Gilliam, which will
be given on Friday in the Duke Family
Performance Hall.

“Gilliam is a major musicologist who
works at Duke University, and he’s an expert
on opera who has given talks at most of the
world’s biggest opera houses,” said Lerner.
“He’s an entertaining and brilliant lecturer,
and I’m happy we were able to get him for
this event.”

“Mozart's 250th birthday, and the
chance to recognize someone of his
stature, is like a rare eclipse that
happens only once in our lifetime.”
--Neil Lerner,
Associate Professor of Music

Members of the music department have
honored the big day by listing their favorite
“Mozart moments” on the department web-
page.

Each “Mozart moment” includes audio
files and explanations of its significance.

The student-run restaurant P.S. is also con-
tributing to the celebration. They will cater
an Austrian-themed dinner for the Music
department on Friday.

“Our menu is a more modern take on
Austrian cuisine,” says P.S. founder and chef
Matt Hassett.

The meal will begin with an appetizer of

: liptauer-stuffed peppers, followed by a main

course of roast chicken with paprika sauce
and quark spatzle.

“Quark is a sort of farmer’s cheese,”
explained Hassett. “Spatzle is a type of
Austrian pasta or dumpling. They are small
shavings of dough, flash-boiled in water,
then sizzled with some oil just before serv-
ing.”

The dessert course will consist of a pear
caramel strudel.

Students interested in attending the dinner
should purchase tickets at the Union toda
between 6 and 8 p.m. é

By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

With 20 years of experience writing for
magazines and journals, Associate Professor
of English Alan Michael Parker returns to his
first love—books—with his newest release,
The Imaginary Poets.

For The Imaginary Poets, Parker asked 22
different poets to write a poem as someone
else, in a language other than English. The
poets were then asked to “translate” the
poem into English, write a biography of their
imaginary poet and finish with a short essay
explaining the poem, poet and context of its
creation.

Parker’s book gives readers and writers
the opportunity to see poetry in a different

’ perspective, challenging them to think

beyond the boundaries of personal identity.

Parker has been considering the idea for
this book for the past ten. years. In The
Imaginary Poets, he presents authors’ per-
spectives by putting an innovative spin on
the first-person point of view. He also used
this concept in one of his previous books,
The Routeledge Anthology of Cross Gender
Verse, where he asked men to write as if they
were women and vice-versa.

This idea was first rejected by a publishing
company after nine months of consideration,
but the second company he presented his
proposal to took only took ten minutes to
agree to the project. Parker also received
support from the poets’ from whom he
requested submissions, with only one declin-

| Professor adds new twist
to poetry in latest release

The cover of Parker’s work.

ing his offer.

Parker says readers can explore first per-
son, translation, biography, fiction and poet-
ics through these poems and find meaning in
all areas. He says the poems should help the
reader consider the authors’ “real” and imag-
inary works, opening an avenue for audi-
ences to appreciate their favorite authors in
different settings.

Parker plans to release another book of
poems in 2007. He also has a children’s book
and an additional novel in the works.

In addition to these projects, Parker will
release a limited edition hand-printed artist
book in coming months. Only
100 copies of the book, which
contains seven poems and origi-
nal artwork, will be printed.

Parker, who has been writing
since he was a child, received his
B.A. from Washington
University and M.F.A. from
Columbia University School of
the Arts.

He has been honored with
many awards, including the
2003 Lucille Medwick
Memorial Award from the
Poetry Society of America, the
2003 Editor’s Choice Award
from The Marlboro Review, fel-
lowships from the New Jersey
and Pennsylvania Councils on
the Arts and a 1998 Pushcart
Prize.

curiosity + adventure + knowledge

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad
Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come
soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience,
We offer personalized attention from start to finish.

Summer, semester and yearlong programs

Wide range of academic courses © Internships

¢ Language courses at all levels ¢ Field trips and tours.

© Small classes © University credit * Scholarships © Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.
Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.

oe .USACS
Your eau |
