4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JULIE RUBLE
Guest Writer

A new study by Dr. Philip Greenland of
the Department of Preventative Medicine at
Northwestern University suggests that obesi-
ty may be a risk factor for cardiovascular
disease, independent of cholesterol and
blood pressure.

Participants included 17,643 men and
women between the ages of 31 and 64 who
were segregated into three groups based on
their risk factors for cardiovascular disease.

The risk factors used to determine the
groupings include cholesterol, blood pres-
sure and smoking.

The cardiovascular health of the subjects
was compared to that of others in the same
risk group with different body mass indexes
(BMI).

“BMI describes body weight relative to
height and is strongly correlated with total
body fat content in adults,” according to the
National Institutes of Health.

BMI is used to classify patients’ weight
status: a BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered
overweight while a BMI of 30 or above is
considered obese.

BMI was the only factor differing within
each risk group in Greenland’s experiment,
allowing researchers to observe how obesity
affects risk for cardiovascular disease inde-
pendent of other well-know risk factors.

The subjects were revisited after 32 years
to determine if there was a relationship
between the initial BMI and the final number
of hospitalizations or mortalities from car-
diovascular disease.

The results indicated that in all risk groups
assessed obese subjects were more likely to
be hospitalized or die from coronary heart
disease, cardiovascular disease or diabetes

NEws ne
Study shows obesity a risk for cardiovascular disease

The salad bar at Commons allows students to make healthier eating choices.

than those with normal weight.

Dr. Lijing L. Yan, one of the researchers
who conducted the study, noted that this con-
clusion is tempered by possible change in the
subjects’ risk factors for cardiovascular dis-
ease during the 32-year period.

For instance, if a subject who started the
study in a low-risk group began smoking and
was later hospitalized for cardiovascular dis-
ease, it is impossible to say that the obesity
influenced his or her heart health more than
the addition of cigarettes.

Yan also acknowledged that the strong
correlation of obesity to hospitalizations and
mortality from cardiovascular disease found
in the study does not necessarily indicate that
obesity causes the decline in heart health, but
merely establishes some _ relationship
between the two.

Yan believes that more basic scientific
research will need to be done on the proper-
ties of fat tissue itself to demonstrate causa-

tion.

However, she seemed confident that this is
at least a piece of the prevention puzzle, and
other studies regarding obesity. agree with
that assessment.

A study conducted by J.K. Wendt of Shell
Oil Company, published in 2006, used simi-
lar methods and found that obesity was cor-
related with cardiovascular disease mortali-
ties.

The dynamic character of fat tissue may
cause obesity to be a risk factor for heart dis-
ease.

A study published in December 2005 by
M.S. Chen, et al. notes that leptin, a hormone
produced by fat tissue, increases the amount
of endothelin-1 produced in the body.

Endothelin-1 is a protein that causes vaso-
constriction, or constriction of the blood ves-
sels, which increases stress on the heart.

Leptin also encourages platelet aggrega-
tion in the blood. However, mice with inacti-

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

vated leptin are genetically obese, so the hor-
mone is vital to regulating body weight. Fat
tissue is a dynamic organ that has multiple
effects on physiology.

Associate Professor of Biology A.
Malcolm Campbell describes genomic stud-
ies beifig conducted on leptin in his text
“Genomics, Proteomics, and
Bioinformatics.”

Genomics is a relatively new discipline in
which scientists seek to study numerous
genes simultaneously with high-throughput
(or fast, high-volume) methods. Genomics
methods have revealed that leptin is part of a
complex genetic circuit, affecting and being
affected by many different genes.

Because of this complexity, “simple cures
[for obesity] may produce unacceptable con-
sequences.”

Watching your lifestyle is the key to main-
taining a healthy weight, according to Dr.
Bumgarner of the Student Health Center.

“College students’ in general have
increased intake of processed foods [and]
fast foods, [which are] high in salt, fat, and
sugar,” Bumgarner said.

Instead of a late night run to grab fast food,
Dr. Bumgarner recommends that students
“focus on whole foods and less processed
foods. Whole foods are richer in nutrients,
lower in calories, have more fiber and have
less salt.”

She also said that physical activity is an
important part of regulating body weight and
maintaining a healthy lifestyle.

The Health Center urges students who
have concerns about maintaining a healthy
weight to make an appointment with the
health center to speak with a professional.

A health educator and nutritionist are
available by appointment at the Student
Health Center.

¢¢¢ ¢

Sd

THE HUNTER-HAMILTON

J TEACHING AWARD

The Hunter-Hamilton Award carries a $15,000 prize,
divided between the recipient and an academic department
or program of his or her choosing.

You can nominate any full-time faculty member who: :

@ has taught at Davidson for at least five years, including any sabbatical leave;
has established a record of contagious enthusiasm for classroom teaching;

is dedicated and patient with students, with service to them being the highest priority;
is able to clarify complex matters for students;

has the ability to stimulate extraordinary accomplishments of students, including those of average
abilities, as well as those of exceptional capabilities;

is able to build self-esteem and self-reliance, and instill in students a desire to learn;

@ treats students with due dignity and respect as persons with individual hopes, fears, pains, and histories,
making an effort to know them as individuals.

Address letters of nomination to the Hunter-Hamilton Selection Committee in care of

Kay Thomasson, Office of the President, or email your letter to kathomasson@davidson.edu.

The deadline for nominations is April 1.

Past Recipients of the Hunter-Hamiliton Love of Teaching Award

Anthony Abbott—English Ben Klein—Mathematics
Cole Barton—Psychology Bill Lawing—Music
Felix Carroll—Chemistry Cynthia Lewis—English
Scott Denham—German William Mahony—Religion
Gail Gibson—English Sally McMillen—History
J. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes—Spanish Randy Nelson—English
_ Peter Hess—Economics Jeanne Neumann—Classics
J. Gill Holland—English Louis Ortmayer—Political Science
- Herb Jackson—Art Jeremiah Putnam—Biology

Thomas Kazee—Political Science
Zoran Kuzmanovich—English
Don Kimmel—Biology
L. Richardson King—Mathematics

DAVIDSON

Michael Toumazou—Classics

Malcolm Partin—History
Charles Ratliff—Economics

