@

z THE DAVIDSONIAN

2 ee Recemees

A Kock sie

yr

Anna Marie Glaize ‘08 and Cherita Jeffreys ‘08 participated in a panel on the Pan-

Hellenic sorority last fall.

Sorority search

wed

NEws

ime east

continues

with AKA, Zeta presentations

By COLLEEN MCKOwNn
Senior Staff Writer

Two National Pan-Hellenic Council
(NPHC) sororities, Alpha Kappa Alpha and
Zeta Phi Beta, presented their organizations
to Davidson students Tuesday and
Wednesday of last week.

Whitney White ’08, a member of the
sorority selection committee, was impressed
by each group’s presentation.

“Zeta Phi Beta’s two representatives spoke
very passionately about the bonds that they
have developed as sisters,” White said.
' “They also expressed how grateful they are

to know that they can always depend on their
sisters.”

She also saw Alpha Kappa Alpha as a
quality organization.

“Alpha Kappa Alpha detailed their com-
mitment to service and high academic and
moral standards. Their six representatives
described the organization’s service initia-
tives, which all chapters devote themselves
to,” White said.

Alpha Kappa Alpha’s representatives from
their Charlotte graduate chapter, Alpha
Lambda Omega, emphasized their motto,
“service to all mankind,” and made it clear
that they were not simply a social club, but
an organization characterized by high ethical
and academic standards. AKA has a mini-
mum GPA requirement of 3.0 and a strict
anti-hazing policy.

Zeta Phi Beta’s representatives, also from
their graduate chapter in Charlotte, articulat-
ed their organization’s commitments to serv-
ice, sisterhood and academic excellence.

Their minimum GPA requirement is 2.5.
Their organization was the first to charter a
chapter in Africa and is constitutionally
bound to the fraternity Phi Beta Sigma, and
forms adult and youth auxiliary groups.

Both organizations emphasized the bonds
of sisterhood as being among the most bene-
ficial aspects to being part of a sorority.

President of the Charlotte graduate chapter
Deborah Blackney said that, with 170,000
members, “One of your sisters has always
got your back.”

Parliamentarian Marilyn McClain agreed.

“Some of my best friends have been
through Alpha Kappa Alpha. When you trav-
el anywhere, your sisters will know and they
will have someone there to meet you,” said

* McClain.

Zeta Phi Beta Representative Ursula
Smith spoke about the warm welcome she
received from her sorority.

“I joined because of the way I was treated
by my sorority,” she said.

She emphasized “the respect we have for
each other, the love, the admiration, and the
encouragement.”

About the overall presentations, student. ,

Ebony Harley ’09 felt that both were well-
done, but was especially impressed with
Alpha Kappa Alpha’s presentation.

“The presentation made by Alpha Kappa
Alpha was a very comprehensive and
informative overview of the organization.
Each of the AKA women articulately and
completely explained the various aspects of
their sisterhood, going into detail about their
policies, processes, and member expecta-
tions,” Harley said. “AKA’s GPA require-
ment shows their commitment to scholarship
and sends interested women the message that
academics come first above all other
extracurricular activities.”

Zeta Phi Beta could have been more
detailed.

“IT thought they could have talked more
about their anti-hazing policies and general
requirements for membership,” said Harley.

Alpha Kappa Alpha’s member intake
process starts with a “rush party.”

Here, interested women speak with a grad-
uate advisory committee in a mentoring
process, where graduate sisters are each
paired with undergraduate sisters.

The pairs are comprised of people with
similar academic and personal interests. To
join AKA, students must apply and be
accepted by the national headquarters.

To join Zeta Phi Beta, interested students
first attend a general information session,
such as the one held this past Wednesday.

Then, individuals attend a tea to get to
know the students better. After the tea, stu-
dents are invited to memberships.

They then learn more about the sorority
and take an exam through their national
headquarters.

Alpha Kappa Alpha also spoke about their
service initiatives, which center around edu-
cation, the black family, health, economics
and the arts.

Two of their education programs are the
IVY reading academy, an early learning pro-
gram that teaches reading skills to youth and
the Presidential Freedom Scholarships for
high school juniors and seniors.

To promote health, AKAs hold a “Take a
Loved One to the Doctor Day; to promote
the black family, a Martin Luther King Jr.
Day of Service.

Zeta Phi Beta also places a large emphasis
on service.

Their national. program, called Zetas
Helping Other People Excel (Z-HOPE) puts
on programs for men, youth, seniors, men,
and the international community.

Through Z-HOPE, Zeta Phi Beta gives
National Education Foundation scholarships
and conducts community education pro-
grams.

They also form auxiliary groups which

See Sororities, page 3

Housing, from page 1

sophomore apartments and endure the soph-
omore slump. I don’t think it will encourage
as much sophomore bonding and unity as my
class experienced because they will be living
around seniors.”

While some rising ‘seniors are worried
about underclassmen living in the senior
apartments, Marsicano does not anticipate
any big issues.

“The seniors will set the tone,” Marsicano
said..“At this point, they are comfortable
enough on campus that they will be able to
effectively address inappropriate behavior.”

Some underclassmen are aware of the
potential tensions they will face on Martin
Court next year. .

“T’ve heard that we’re going to get major-
ly hated on, but I really don’t care,” Sarah
Petrino ’09 said. “We never thought we
would get it. We’re still in shock that they
called our names in the RLO office on that
fateful evening.”

Other underclassmen who will be living in
Martin Court did not expect to get apart-
ments either, but are excited at the prospect
of living in Martin Court next year.

“We decided to try for senior apartments
when we heard that there were openings. We
figured that there was nothing to lose by try-
ing for one of the apartments; the worst thing
that could happen would be that we ended up
not getting one,” Meghan Curtiss ’09 said.

Lila Allen ’09 said she looks forward to
the many benefits of Martin Court living.

“J don’t mind living with my roommate at
all and I wouldn’t be opposed to another
year, but I am looking forward to playing
music whenever I want, keeping the lights on
late, and cooking. I am awful in the
kitchen and need all the practice I can get,”
Allen said. :

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

Petrino and her roommates said they are
thrilled about their living situation next year.

“We're really excited because of the free-
dom we will have,” Petrino said. “It’s the
best of both worlds. We have our own rooms
but we also live with our closest friends. I’m
really excited because I think Flowe is such
an amazing location. ,We’re right on the
Court, we’re close to the Union, F and it’s
not that far from Chambers or the Library.”

“We're really excited because of
the freedom we will have. It’s the
best of both worlds. We have our
own rooms, but we also live with
our closest friends,”

--Sarah Petrino ‘09

Marsicano attributes the abnormalities in
housing distribution to several factors.

An unusually large number of students
plan to study abroad next year.

Furthermore, off camps housing persmis-
sions increased significantly due to a combi-
nation of a large number of applications and
the renovation of Duke residence hall next
year.

One hundred twenty-seven off campus
permissions were granted, as compared to 80
last year.

There was also a 30 percent increase in the
number of off-campus permissions granted
to rising seniors, with 80 next year in con-
trast to 60 this past year.

Even with the increased number of off-
campus permissions, there is still a lengthy
waiting list of students hoping to live off
campus.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/31/06

Martin Court

Noise Complaint

An officer received a call about a noise complaint from Martin Court F. Upon arriv-
ing, the officer observed several white males playing a drinking game and laughing
loudly on the third floor. The officer told the subjects they had to stop the game and
asked for identification, upon which the subjects became belligerent. The officer had
to stand with his back to the wall to keep the subjects from walking and standing
behind him. One of the subjects asked to make a final shot, and when the officer said
the game was over, the subjects became aggressive and one grabbed the officer by the
arm. The officer advised the subject not to touch him again in any way and called dis-
patch to send additional officers. When the four additional officers arrived, all the
subjects complied with the reporting officer’s instructions and went back to their
respective rooms.

03/31/06 Underage Drinking

Little Dormitory

An officer observed a white male with a 40-ounce King Cobra beer walk into Little
Dormitory. The officer followed the student and asked him about the drink. The stu-
dent said he was 18 and was consuming a malt beverage. The officer detected the
odor of alcohol coming from the subject’s person. There was another white male in
the room with the subject, but the officer was unable to detect the odor of alcohol
coming from either the second student or the room.

4/2/06 Tomlinson Parking Lot Property Damage

A subject at Tomlinson Dormitory said he had observed three black males walking
across the Tomlinson parking lot and saw one of them hit several vehicles with his fist
and a beer can. There were three other witnesses who observed the student hit two of
the vehicles. The officer inspected the vehicles that had been struck and saw no
apparent damage done to any of them. The reporting subject did not find any damage
to his vehicle. The officer informed the other three vehicle owners, informed them of
the situation and requested that they check their vehicles to see if there was any dam-
age done. The vehicles are a 1992 Buick with tag number NC—SRS4331, a 2000
BMW with tag number PA—GCW6762 and a 2004 Toyota with tag number GA—
3222ATK

od i)

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

4

