Library director Leland Park spoke at a celebration of his retirement and more
than 30 years of service to the college last Friday. Park will continue to serve as
director this summer while the college searches for his replacemment.

Town constructs traffic
roundabout near I-77

By COLLEEN MCKown
Senior Staff Writer

Construction of a traffic roundabout is cur-
rently in progress on Griffith Street near the
entrance of Interstate 77.

According to Chief Jeanne Miller of the
Davidson Town Hall, the town needs the
roundabout because of the current retail
development being constructed on Griffith
Street.

“If people have concerns, they can
call and make an appointment
with the police department. We'll
drive them through in a police car
until they get a sense of it. Then,
they can drive us through.”
--Jeanne Miller
Davidson Town Hall

A roundabout, like a signaled intersection,
is a method of traffic control.

Because of the increased traffic, the Town
of Davidson felt that building a roundabout
was a safe option.

Also called rotaries or gyratory circles,
roundabouts are road junctions where traffic
flows around an island while yielding to cir-
culating traffic.

According to Miller, roundabouts have
been proven safer than four-way intersec-
tions. “There are more points of collision in
a four-way intersection,” Miller said.

“Also, accidents in roundabouts are side-
impact accidents as opposed ae an onciene
vehicle ‘t-boning’ another car.”

Traffic moves more quickly and efficient-
ly through roundabouts, and they help pre-
vent accidents by slowing car speed.

While driving through a roundabout, one
should slow down to 15 miles per hour or
less, and always yield to vehicles on one’s
left. Traffic moves only to the right.

The retail development on Griffith Street

- is expected to amount to $120 million.

The new development will include a
Harris Teeter grocery store, a new Davidson
Day School, restaurants and over 200 addi-
tional residential areas such as Davidson
Court and Homewood Suites.

With the increased volume of traffic that
will result from the development, Miller said
that the roundabout will facilitate traffic flow
better than traffic. lights would.

“Signalization, unlike roundabouts, pre-
vents traffic from moving quickly in a con-
tinuous flow,” she said.

According to Miller, roundabouts are safer
for pedestrians. At roundabouts, pedestrians
cross one-way, slow-moving traffic.

Roundabouts also offer the extra benefit of
being aesthetically pleasing. The Davidson
roundabout will create green boulevards
with landscaped medians.

Roundabouts will also be a good option
for traffic flow between local schools.

Miller and the police department have
given a Power Point presentation about the
new roundabout to several community
organizations and said that many Davidson
community members have _ expressed
approval for the roundabout.

“A lot of people think it’s no big deal.
There’s a small roundabout near the Food
Lion in Cornelius,” Miller said.

Miller also pointed out that nearby areas
like Hilton Head Island use roundabouts.

Those who have lived in cities in northern
states or who have spent time abroad have
also probably encountered roundabouts.

Some senior citizens, such as residents of
The Pines retirement community, have
expressed concern about the new round-
abouts.

“If people have concerns, they can call and
make an appointment with the police depart-
ment. We’ll drive them through in a police
car until they get a sense of it. Then, they can
drive us through,” Miller said.

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

aT Students stay on campus
to do summer research

By EmiLy Kota
Senior Staff Writer

Students will collaborate with faculty on
research projects spanning numerous disci-
plines this summer.

Research performed during the summer
allows students to gain experiences not usu-
ally offered to undergraduate students.

“In the summer, students can devote all
their energies into conducting research,”
Associate Professor of Biology Michael
Dorcas said.

Some students develop their own research
ideas while others apply to work with profes-
sors already focusing on a certain topic.

“In the summer, students can
devote all their energies into con-
ducting research.”
--Michael Dorcas,
Associate Professor of Biology

Christie Brough ’07 was attracted to her
project after taking Issues in Reproductive
Medicine with Professor and Chair of the
Biology Department Verna Case.

“I was fascinated by these topics so this
research opportunity will give me good
insight into what the research world might be
like and allow me to gain a further under-
standing of this topic,” Brough said.

Brough will be working at Davidson as a
Howard Hughes Medical Institute Summer
Research Fellow.

She will analyze precedent setting legal
cases relating to prenatal intervention and

assisted reproductive technology under
Case’s supervision.

Kristen Cecala ’07 will conduct research
under Dorcas’ supervision.

She_plans to study a specific salamander
species in order to answer questions regard-
ing its distribution, movement, survival,
metamorphic behavior and other life history
characteristics.

Cecala will also continue independent
research from this past semester about the
effectiveness of amphibian anesthesia and
behavioral interactions of larval stream sala-
manders.

Cecala said that research is an opportunity
for students to gain valuable experience.

“I am interested in attending graduate
school following graduation from Davidson
and this summer will provide me more expe-
rience in conducting research on my
own and exposure to the field of ecology,
herpetology and research,” Cecala said:

Nick DiLuzio ’08 also cited gaining field
experience and building his resume for grad-
uate school as two of his summer goals.

DiLuzio and Leigh Anne Harden ’07 will
conduct research with Dorcas’ assistance and
they plan to study the effects of development
on turtle populations in the local area.

They will be developing mathematical
models to allow for more efficient sampling
of turtle populations to better estimate actual
population sizes.

Many summer research students look for-
ward to working with Davidson’s experi-
enced faculty members.

See Research, page 3

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

4/29/06

Patterson Court

Fire

Officers were dispatched to KA because the fire alarm had been activated. Upon
arrival, the officers were approached by a student who said he had observed a white male
running from the house minutes after the alarm sounded. Two other officers entered the
house to ensure it was empty. The Davidson Fire Department arrived and found a fire
extinguisher that had been discharged in the basement. The Fire Department made sev-
eral attempts to reset the alarm but were unable to do so. The police officers called the
Physical Plant and asked them to check the system. Several hours later, the officers
received a call from Physical Plant advising them that the alarm had been repaired.

4/30/06

Patterson Court

Party Control

An officer was sent to the Kappa Sigma house because the on-duty officer was having
trouble having keeping the party under control. The officer said IDers were nor check-
ing IDs; ID bracelets were being removed and given to underage students; the bartender
was allowing students to have more than one beer at a time; and students were being

allowed entry through the basement emergency exit.

The reporting officer met with

house leadership to discuss a course of action and was informed the house was on its last
case of beer. The leaders were cooperative and helpful in addressing the problem. After
the house ran out of beer, students began to disperse.

4/30/06 Martin Court

Suspicious Persons

While conducting a foot patrol near Hart, an officer observed four white males that
appeared to be of high-school age walking in the area. They took evasive actions upon
seeing the officer and walked up the hill toward Turner. The subjects, two of whom were
in possession of beer, advised that they were not students and were on campus looking
for a party. They also reported that they had been at the Union shooting pool earlier in
the evening. The officer advised the subjects that the college was private property and
they were trespassing. Warnings were given to all four subjects, and they left the area

with no further problems.

4/30/06 Martin Court

Disturbance

Officers were sent to Martin Court F in reference to a call about students throwing
chairs from the second floor balcony. Upon arriving, the officers noticed a few students
outside their rooms and questioned them about the chairs and garbage that had been
thrown into the courtyard. The students said the items had been thrown Mat the second
floor, but they had no knowledge of who was involved.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

