THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006 15

Men split weekend; women score two SoCon wins

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

Men’s tennis retained its .500 record as it
won one and lost one in this week’s court
action. While the men struggle with doubles,
the women have had a winning week in the
SoCon, winning against Chattanooga and the
College of Charleston, despite losing to non-
conference opponents Charlotte and Boston
University.

At home on Sunday, the men encountered
Chattanooga and lost their third consecutive
dual match. The Mocs rose to 3-3 in the
Southern Conference with the win. Only
Matt Hartman ’08 and Philip Compeau ’08
were able to pull off a doubles win at No. 3,
and the Wildcats lost the point. The
Hartman/Compeau duo fended -off the Mocs
8-5, their first.win together of the season.

Chattanooga won the match with a score
of 6-1. Flaviu Simihaian ’08 was the only
Wildcat to take a point from the Mocs, win-
ning 6-1, 2-6, 7-6(5) at the No.1 spot. At the
other singles positions, the ’Cats fell in
straight sets.

In the last of a seven match homestand, the
Wildcats came back from the loss of the day
before and beat visiting UNC-Greensboro 5-
2 on Monday. The win gave Davidson an 8-
8 overall record and a 2-4 record in the con-
ference. UNC-G dropped to 0-6 in the
SoCon.

Doubles once again put Davidson in jéop-
ardy, however, as UNC-G swept the doubles
points and put itself up 1-0 at the start of the
match. .

The ’Cats came from behind, re-igniting in
singles play to take five of the six spots.
Simihaian added another to his win column,
bringing his personal record to 8-7 with his
close 7-6 (4), 1-6, 7-6 (1) win against the No.

1 UNC-Greensboro a

Elsewhere in singles, Ethan Jaffee ’09, Jay
Chitty ’07, Scott Myers ’09 and Hartman all
brought home points for, the team, while co-
captain Daniel Bermeo 706 was the lone loss
for the ’Cats, being defeated by his opponent
3-6, 7-5, 6-4 at the No. 2 spot.

The women began their four-match week
going down 4-3 to  out-of-conference
Charlotte last Wednesday. The loss to the
undefeated 49ers ended a streak of five dual
match wins. Like the men, the women were
plagued by doubles losses, dropping two of
the three and facing a 1-0 deficit.

“We had some lineup changes that hurt us
in the non-conference matches,” said Kim
Whelan ’08, “but everyone adjusted and
played well as a team. Getting two more con-
ference wins was our first priority, and that’s
where we saw success this week.”

The lone doubles win came from the com-
bination of Michelle Fanney ’09 and Lindsey
Powel ’06 at the No. 2 position. They beat
their opponents 8-1.

Needing four wins to take the match,
Davidson was able to collect only three sin-
gles points at the one, three and five spots.
Kelsey Linville ’08, Whelan and Lora
Dushanova ’09 all defeated the 49er players
in straight sets.

After a few days’ rest, Davidson got back
into action on Saturday against Southern
Conference rival UT-Chattanooga for the
first of three matches in three days. The
*Cats took four singles points and the dou-
bles point to defeat the Mocs 5-2.

The No. | team of Linville and Whelan
lost 8-5 in the only doubles match to be
dropped to UT-C. Powel and Fanney were
able to pull off the 8-3 win at No. 2, and at
No. 3, Kate Levitt ’07 and Dushanova also
defeated their opponents 8-3.

a Se 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203

In Teaser Davidson Cotton Mill, Davidson, NC 28036
om aoe

In singles, Linville and Fanney lost points
at the one and two spots while the three
through six positions won for the Wildcats.
Whelan, Levitt, Skeeters and Dushanova
each contributed a straight-sets win.

The Wildcats moved on to Charleston the
next day, defeating the Cougars on their
home courts with a score of 6-1 and handing
them their first SoCon loss. In last season’s
SoCon tournament, Davidson beat the
College of Charleston in the semifinals to
advance.

As in all 12 of their victories of this sea-
son, the women captured the doubles point,
winning all three matches.

In singles, Linville won 6-4, 6-0 at the No.
1 spot, Whelan won 6-4, 6-4 at three, Levitt
won 7-5, 6-1 at four, Meredith Skeeters ’08
defeated her Cougar oon 6-7, 6-4 (10-
6) at five and Dushanova won 6-0, 6-3 at No.
6. Charleston’s only point came at the
expense of Fanney at the No. 2 position, who
lost in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2.

‘The women completed their three-day

. Stand at home on Monday, when they were

defeated by non-conference Boston

Men’s tennis, most recently, scored a 5-2 victory over UNC-Greensboro.

University 5-2. With the loss, the Wildcats’
nine-match home winning streak was broken
and they fell to a 12-6 overall record.

Davidson began the competition by losing
all three doubles matches, although two of
the three went to tie breakers. The duos of
Whelan/Linville and Dushanova/Levitt
forced close 9-8 decisions, but the "Cats
entered singles with a 1-0 disadvantage.

Only Linville and Dushanova were able to
score points for Davidson, beating their BU
opponents 6-1, 7-6 and 6-3, 6-4, respective-
ly.

Dushanova, who won all four of her sin-
gles matches this week, rose to 11-3 overall
and 8-3 at the six spot. With her play, she
was named SoCon’s Player of the Week.

“We have another full week coming up
and we’re working hard to meet the chal-
lenges and come out on top in each match,”
said Whelan.

The women next travel to Johnson City,
Tn., to play East Tennessee State University
on Friday, while the men hit the courts also
this Friday to play the Charlotte 49ers in
their first away match in over a month.

all mislabeled by year.

Sucks
Davidsonian Baseball Stats: At the suggestion of a reader, we’ve decided to include
our baseball retractions here: Mar. 15--Game 3 against Columbia: Gregory Zage '07
knocked in Brett Shore '09 in the third, Ronnie Shore '06 doubled w/2 RBI in the
fourth, Alden Crissey '07 singled to center to score Jordan Mills '09 in 11th.
Gardner-Webb game: 'Cats gave up two runs in the eighth, one run in the ninth.
Mar. 22--Rob Wilson '07, Gregory Zage '07, Alex Entrekin '06, Brett Shore '09 were

U.S. Baseball Team in World Classic: The MLB stars who chose to play did not
hold up to international standards (see pg. 12). Hooray for the Japanese.

The Knicks: The Knicks are so bad that neither Larry Brown nor Isiah Thomas can
rescue them from the league’s proverbial toilet. Solution? Hard to say, but getting rid
of Stephon Marbury is a start.
Satellite Parking: Rash of burglaries and general lack of safety make satellite as dan-
gerous as rooting for the Cowboys at an Eagles game.

Doesn’t Suck
Ousted No. 1 Seeds: Getting rid of the traditional powerhouses makes for worse
brackets but a more interesting tournament.
George Mason: One Davidson student said that George Mason making the Final
Four confirmed his belief in God. While not that serious, it’s a nice story.
Women’s Lacrosse: The team has already won more games in half this year’s season
than they won in all of last year’s season:
Men’s Basketball: After everything else they’ ve done. the classy team sent a letter to
the Perspectives page thanking us all for supporting them. Once again, we should be
thanking them for being awesome.

For The Davidsonian’s final six issues, Sports will run the Sucks/Doesn’t Suck
feature. Those who wish to share the boons and banes of their existences with the
“greater college community” should email pitrumbo@davidson.edu. If your com-

ment is ridiculous and/or relevant enough, pitrumbo (not his real name) will include
it in the next week’s paper.

