‘The faculty discussion of Patterson Court 12 raises s several
interesting questions about relationships among various |
_groups in our community: between the College and the
Town, between students: and faculty and between the,
Court and, um, everyone. (See. “Noise makes noise” on the
: front page.) For example, the Town’s noise restrictions are
ridiculous (no noises louder than a normal human conver-
sation?), not to mention inconsistent (the traffic on Main
-Street?), but the College is part of the broader community
-and so bears a certain responsibility to the Town. «.
We’re not really interested in discussing noise levels at.
Court parties, though. We’re more interested in professors.
> If noise on the Court is. a problem, then whose problem,
is it? Any students whom the noise disturbs is an obvious»
answer, as is the administrators in the Dean of Students” y
-and Residence Life Offices. who are responsible. for
enforcing College policy at and for "Keeping e everyone as
happy as possible.” 2
The faculty, though? ~" _
“The Davidsonian is inclined to ‘say ‘yes. “Hear us out. It.
is refreshing to hear from a group that is: generally not.“
involved with the Court. It seems to us that most faculty,
_who take issue with the Court genuinely seek the students’
best interests, which makes sense, given that, among the
_adults on campus they are enerally the peo le who know
us best
UAX€s, we might talk to a Dean when we violate the Code
of Responsibility or deal with a family emergency, “but.
these visits are usually few and far between. Professors;
however, we see multiple times each week. We talk with _
- them, during office hours, conversations that are. often.
“equal parts social and academic: We eat dinner at their,
ehouses, meet them for coffee at Summit and sometimes.
"end up telling them a lot about campus happenings. While -
_we might not describe how drunk we got on Saturday dur-
* ing office hours the following Monday, or want to see ou
_professors on the Court.as we down terrible beer,
_apparently tell them quite a bit,” 4
“And so it:seems. appropriate for the faculty to advocate.
‘or the students who complain to them. We are adults, and ©
e do. have, the. right to make our own decisions, even.
hen they are bad ones, But being adults also requires us”
listen to different opinions and to engage the holders o:
ose opinions in dialogue. ©
Many, if not most, of us may. disagree with facult
-members’ stances on the Court, but, as people. who ar
older and wiser than us and in whom many of us confide
? neirs” are voices, worth hearing.

The Davidsonian

% ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor
a Pierce Trumbo
News Editors
Alissa Curran, Chris Moore & Monica Jamouneau
: Perspectives Editors
g # Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
/ ae Arts & Living Editors
#. “Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman
“ Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors —
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle ~
= Photography Editor
Ben Elinor
Business, Advertising, and Circulation ‘Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen. VanderMolen & Halley’Brantley

wal erscmaunes

The Davidsonian i is s published Wednesdays during the academ
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please,
‘address alll correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7 182,
i son, NC 8035. 7182, Phone ee 894-2148, .

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.

Subscriptions cost $50. 00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request.

2 Copyright is held by the-Trustees of Davidson College.

* LETTERS TO

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 3, 2007

rer

THE EDITOR

Eradicating racism must start.at the root

“Let’s make it rain on these niggas.” Wait, a large majori-
ty of the Davidson community finds this offensive? I didn’t
hear any complaints the last several weekends on the. court,
where a large portion of the Davidson community had no
problem partying to songs like this and others that openly
used the term n***er or any of its variants.

How can we be so offended by this racial slur when it is
scrawled across a dorm window when later that night we
party to songs that explicitly drop the word left and right?
How can we speak out against racism when we accept certain
things, yet condemn others? Setting a double standard will
stifle true progress.

A community that follows the rule of “do as I say and not
as I do” will find that its message is lost amongst the major-
ity of the community. I don’t doubt for a second that n***er
is an extremely offensive word that brings up a large amount
of pain in the African-American community, but if we are
going to truly change, and I mean REALLY change, we need
to start at the root of the problem. We need to recognize the
hypocrisy of our every day lives before anything meaningful
can be accomplished.

Kevin Cook ‘09

Respecting the Honor Code: Academic Success

All incoming students, regardless of their majors, are
bound to encounter at least a few paper assignments during
their four years at Davidson. They must enter with a funda-
mental understanding of proper citation and spend their first
semesters refining their skills. Occasionally, the proper way
to cite one’s work thoroughly and honestly evades a handful
of first-year students. If a professor recognizes inadequate
citations and believes that the errors are honest mistakes, he
or she may choose to handle the incident without involving
the Honor Council. While these occasions require attention,
it is not always necessary to bring them to the Honor
Council.

More provocative instances occur when students put
themselves in impossible situations and subsequently resort
to plagiarism as a way out. For example, imagine a student
who procrastinates writing a paper until hours before it is
due. This student might resort to one of two varieties of pla-

giarism. In the more flagrant form, the student personally

produces little or none of a paper; instead, he or she copies
entire sections from other sources and presents them as his
or her own work.

At Davidson, such instances are rare. Plagiarism results
far more frequently when a procrastinating student does not
cite as he or she writes and then runs out of time to add foot-
notes. In the frenzied minutes before the deadline, the stu-
dent can either accept a late penalty on the paper while

adding the essential references or he or she can turn in the
paper without references, at the expense of personal integri-
ty and the community’s trust. Any student who turns in a
paper without proper citations violates the Honor Code, even
if the poor judgment arises from procrastination and a failure
to cite while writing and not from a malicious desire to
exploit the system.

Avoiding plagiarism is a simple matter. A student can do
one of two things. First, the afore mentioned procrastinator
could keep the paper until he or she includes sufficient cita-
tions. The student’s grade will likely suffer, but receiving a
lower grade for a late paper is a small price to pay for sus-
taining the privileges of the Honor Code and maintaining the
community’s trust.

Of course, the purpose of this essay is not to encourage
late papers and after-the-fact citation. Procrastinators would
be wise to start earlier and to cite while writing. It is best for
a student to denote the text from which he or she obtains a
quotation at the very moment the quotation enters the paper.
Prompt citation protects a student from the frailties of mem-
ory—and from violating the Honor Code. As Davidson
College students, we should strive to practice good writing
and research techniques not only to develop as writers but
also to preserve our community of trust.

John Watkins ‘09, Honor Council Member

DesPain’s article lacks perspective on Iraq war

Bobby DesPain’s editorial last week revealed an uncon-
scionable lack of perspective regarding the war in Iraq.

His belief that Congress has no place in evaluating the con-
flict belies an ignorance of the Constitution as well as a com-
plete lack of understanding of Congress’ ability to declare
war and oversee the armed forces.

Second, his comparison between Petraeus and Eisenhower
is similarly troubling. Mr. DesPain’s inability to differentiate
between a conventional war fought by organized units with
established, uniformed frontlines and the asymmetric insur-
gency [in Iraq] reveals a simplistic outlook that has no place
in print.

But it only gets worse. Mr. DesPain then begins a bizarre
and incomprehensible tirade against the “New York Times.”
He starts with a non sequitur regarding the Jayson Blair scan-
dal and then implies that the armed forces’ existence some-
how absolves the military of ali criticism. In doing so, he fails
to make a distinction between the newspaper and the adver-
tiser and subsequently proceeds to accuse both of “hating the
military.” To my knowledge, all the “New York Times” has
done is allowed an organization to express its opinion by

spending its own money on a (tasteless) advertisement. If -

Mr. DesPain wishes to disparage the First Amendment, he

should come out and say so rather than burying his argument
in illogical prose.

What is ultimately most upsetting about Mr. DesPain’s
article is his offensive use of the word “atrocity” to describe
the advertisement. Discussions of the war in Iraq are framed
by the military scandals of Abu Ghraib, the gang-rape and
murder of a 14-year-old girl in Mahmudiya and the massacre
of innocent civilians in Haditha. It is truly disappointing to
see Mr. DesPain wield the word in such an insipid manner.

I can only hope that in the future Mr. DesPain will try
harder to be less naive and more thoughtful in his editorials.

Francisco Fiallo ‘09
Ti he Davidsonian welcomes letters.

Steven wuz here: a look at library vandalism

STEVEN TREIBLE
Guest Columnist

This article is, in part, a tribute to the masochistic souls
who willingly descend to the nether level of the library.
These people scoff at the aesthetics of life and say, “I would
rather study surrounded by a putrid-colored carpet, under
horrible lighting and in grotesquely etched carrels, than any-
where else on our gorgeous campus.”

These people understand the benefits of the basement of
the library. Down there, day and night blend together; the
difference between 12 midnight and 12 noon is negligible.
Regardless of the time of day, when you are down there you

feel like you are drowning; that you are, in some way, suffo-
cating from the lack of proper air circulation. Perhaps this is
why the basement’s environment is so productive.

Many students have suffered down there, making their
sufferings known through etching on carrel walls and bath-
room stalls. Though some of these etchings are uplifting to
the denizens of the depths, most are lowly, profane and neg-
ativity-inducing to whoever reads them. Although graffiti is
an inevitable pastime for the meatheads who occasionally
find themselves in the library, those of us who call the library
home must rise up against the intruders with intelligent,

See Basement, page 1]
