8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

YE OLDE DAVIDSON _ weoresoay, resnusny 27, 2008

1960s lay foundation for ‘Cats’ basketball fame

By Nina MAcE
Staff Wrtier

As hard as it is to imagine Davidson without our renowned basket-
ball team, Davidson intercollegiate athletics did not mclude a basket-
ball program until 80 years after the college’s founding. In 1908,
the first year the team played other schools, the team was pic-
tured in the yearbook with only five members and two substi-
tutes. The team was coached by a student, James Rhea, and won

their first game 25-9.

The following year’s annual would prove somewhat prophet-
ic, as one article wrote in reference to basketball and two
other new sports that “all are destined to make us famous in

their lines.”

Davidson entered the Southern Conference in 1936 with
Coach Norman Shepard, who led the school to the SoCon
Tournament five times. By 1949, the team was 14 members
strong but still combating what the Basketball Roster
called, “the almost complete absence of height and expe-

rience.”

In 1960 Charles “Lefty” Driesell became

coach, leading Davidson to a 20-win season
three years later.

In a 1989 letter, alumnus Ronald Stone
recounted a story of his experience on the
Davidson team in the ‘60s. He recalls that
freshmen could not play on the varsity team
and that their practice uniforms were only
washed every other day.

“The Frosh quickly developed a distinctive
walk due to chronic cases of jock itch from
the wet clothing endured on the second day
of the every other day cleaning schedule,” he
said. “It was definitely a relief to get to the
Sophomore status...for more reasons than
fans realized.”

Integration, from page 7

Davidson is not the church related college
setting the pace for the South.”

As a result, the trustees passed a comprise
motion in 1961 to allow the admission of
African, but not African-American, students
to Davidson. The Presbyterian Church and
the Board of World Missions recommended
the first African students, Benjamin Nzengu
and Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja, who arrived
to campus in fall 1962 and 1963, respective-
ly. Although Dr. Dan Rhodes led a commit-
tee to begin desegregating local businesses,
Nzengu later recalled that “racism was
everywhere” and that even on Main Street,
he was at time asked to sit separately from
his white friends.

Only after the faculty formally recom-
mended that the College integrate complete-
ly did the trustees allow the first African-
American students, Wayne Crumwell and
Leslie Brown, to enroll in 1964. Still the
transition was not easy, and President Martin
formed a committee to avoid conflict.
Integration was particularly difficult for the
new students.

“What did I do for Davidson? I graduated
from Davidson. I consider that an accom-
plishment,” said Crumwell, reflecting on his
college years. “Would I opt to go to
Davidson again? Hell, no! Why subject
myself to that trauma during that time in
one’s life when you have alternatives?”

Although the experience was difficult,
Leslie Brown acknowledged that part of his
decision to attend Davidson was the “oppor-

Davidson’s 1911-12 basketball team.

tunity to be a pioneer and to be a role model
and to break some new ground.”

Although the number of African-
American students per class hovered around
three in the late 1960s and 10 in the 1970s,
significant changes occurred in Davidson. In
1968 a group of students, faculty and towns-
people boycotted a local barbershop until it
desegregated. The Black Student Coalition
(BSC) formed in 1970 “to give black stu-
dents a sense of escape and to help raise cul-
tural awareness on campus.” Pressure
increased to begin hiring more minorities for
faculty and administrative positions. In 1972
the College hired Larry Barr as an admission
counselor, and the first black tenure-track
professor was hired in 1974.

Integrating Davidson has been a long, try-
ing process, one that we are still working to
more fully achieve. The College may now be
more ethnically diverse, but students are still
challenged by the realities of racism on cam-
pus. While researching for this article, I was
extremely touched by the evidence I found of
Davidson students, faculty and townspeople
boldly standing up to the pillars of tradition
to support a gentler, more egalitarian society.
In this time of change, let us learn from our
shameful history and be the first to stand to
embrace a more inclusive Davidson.

Much of the historical information found
in this article is from A Good Faith Effort:
Integration at Davidson College, 1958-1964,
a 1996 senior thesis by Steven A. Shames
and Black Reality at Davidson College, a fall
1996 Davidson Journal article by Issac
Bailey.

marry.

If two students kiss next to the “Kissing
Well” behind Phi Hall, they will eventually

Davidson was the only school in the South
that didn’t close during the Depression.

esy of
” College Archives

er ¢ curtains in bathrooms, Most co-edi
schools: still ‘had single-se» dorms,
but’ cutting-edge~ Davidson. put the
_- transfer women of 1973-74 in Littler

with (gasp!) those smelly-i

L ‘Stephenson, who had spent her
freshman year at an all-girls: school
says that the only reason her father
didn’t send her back home: was. b
the time he realized boys were right
downstairs, hehad already hauled

rything up to Third Little.
“And where would the women eat?

"The options besides the dining hall

TaN

The Davidson physics department performed
the first medical use of x-rays at the College

There is an underground passageway between
Dana and Watson. Also, the herpatology lab
under Dana houses dozens of snakes.

Driesell led the team to 176 victories, and the team made AP
Top 10 for the first time. Driesell’s press came not just from his
victories but also from his personality. Stone recalled a particular-
ly bad practice when Driesell kicked a basketball through a roof
skylight, sending shattered glass all over the gym.

In 1969, “Sports Illustrated” ran an article on Driesell.
“Driesell’s players, far more erudite than he, sometimes
snicker at [his] grammar and his misuse of words,” the
article said. “But they had better believe him when Lefty

Driesell points both index fingers at-them like six-guns
and growls, ‘I may be dumb, but I am not stupid.””

During this time, Davidson played most home games at
the Charlotte Coliseum, rather than the significantly
smaller Johnston Gym. The team made it to the NCAA

tournament three times, beginning Davidson’s first-class
reputation for basketball.

Under the next coach, Terry Holland, Davidson made it
to the NCAA tournament twice. The team went to the
" semifinals in 1969 but then lost to UNC by two points.
Davidson basketball underperformed in the mid-“70s
and ‘80s, suffering mainly losing seasons. In a
; response letter to a negative 1979 “Sports
Illustrated” article on recruiting practices, a dis-
’ gruntled alumnus wrote, “It is clearly evident that
the basketball program will never achieve the success
it did in the late 60s.”

Clearly, he was wrong.

In 1989, Davidson basketball moved into
the new Belk Arena in Baker Sports
Complex under the tutelage of new Head
Coach Bob McKillop, and in 12 years
McKillop became the winningest Davidson
basketball coach, passing Driesell. McKillop
has led Davidson to the NCAA tournament
in 1998, 2002, 2006 and 2007.

And 2008? We’ ll just have to wait and see.

fosnded 18375
ay Presbyiy M: *

in 1896.
