givorigh oO

zs eat

and to work. together to develop strategies to combat the
ought. According tothe “Charlotte Business Journal,

water, consumption. in half until the end of the month
Easley , wants to see how. the State responds: to, water
ationing,a measure. that may” ‘soon. become ne
though rain is expected over the next few days,
ing to the “Charlotte. Observer,” Raleigh has about, 90
days of drinking water left, ‘and Durham is down to 6
days. The situation is ‘equally dire across the state.
For: which. reason, we’te pleased to.
College hasn’t been sitting on its hands. »
Already the College has stopped watering all its athl
fields, save the football field (which doesn’t make.
too happy), and President Ross and the Physical Plant are
looking into building water retentions ponds. Students
seem to be lagging behind in these efforts, however. Th
Davidsonian offers some obvious, but as seine nece

other country know, showering every day isn’t a necessi.
“if you’re not Physically active. Don’t-leave the wate
unning while you’re brushing your teeth, When you’r
loing dishes, find a big bowl to fill up with water instea
f running each dish individually under the faucet.
‘Today’s increasing environmental conscientiousness:
requires that we all recognize that an evironmental crisis
‘whether drought or global climate change, requires tha
we take personal owernship over our communal prob-

Editor-in-Chief

Summerlee Walter

Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo
News Editors

‘Perspectives Editors
‘Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington &. Mike Wellman...
Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors ¢
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle
Photography Editor &
Ben Elinor “
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

= The Davidsenian is published Wednesdays during the academic year:

_ by the students of Davidson College, One copy per student. Pleaseé

= address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Bite: NC 28035-71 82, Phone (704) 894-2148. :

_Eomail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union... Opinions expressed in ©
«letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the,
ews of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

st. $50.00 per year:. Advertising rates are available upon request

right is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ta_ekbbiutrte:

overnor Mike Easley. encouraged citizens. to cut their q

‘threaten the water supply. ‘As people in pretty much every

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 24, 2007

Turkey threatens defensive attacks in Iraq

Iraq just got messier.

Last. week, the. Turkish
Parliament passed a strongly-
worded bill asserting Turkey’s
right to attack Kurdish separatists
operating within Iraq. The main
7 Kurdish rebel group, — the
Kurdistan Worker’s Party (PKK),
has been sowing violence in east-
ern Turkey for nearly 30 years
and, recently, has found a safe
haven in northern Iraq.

While much of the country has
been in turmoil, the mostly
Kurdish north has been relatively
peaceful. The region has operated with substantial autono-
my since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, creating its own par-
liament and military and even issuing passports. Many
Kurds consider northern Iraq a part of “Greater Kurdistan,”
a de facto state with claims to parts of Turkey, Iraq, Syria
and even Iran.

Though the Kurdish government in Iraq rejects the activ-
ities of the PKK, it has done nothing to eradicate them. The
U.S. has the PKK on its list of Foreign Terrorist
Organizations yet American forces have done nothing to
curb separatist aggression.

What’s worse, the State Department is investigating
claims that North Carolina-based defense contractor
Blackwater allowed U.S. weapons to fall into the PKK’s
hands.

The House Foreign Affairs Committee’s approval of a bill
calling the 1915-17 killing of Armenian Turks genocide has
fanned Turkey’s anger at the U.S. and may be used as a trig-
ger to invade Iraq. Turkey has every right to defend its terri-

the welcome matt

tory under threat of attack from terrorist organizations that
target its civilians, which the PKK has done. Turkey claims
that it would only be doing what Israel did in Lebanon in
2006, an action the U.S. supported.

So this is what happens when another country takes own-
ership of the Global War on Terror (GWOT). Turkey, once
one of America’s staunchest allies in the Middle East, now
risks tipping the fragile balance in northern lraq—and with
good cause. In point of fact, the U.S. has not been diligent
enough in fighting the war it created. If groups like the PKK
are allowed to operate within U.S.-administered territory,
then America must be held responsible for its actions.

Although the Kurds have been very helpful in Iraq, sup-
porting Iraqi Kurdistan risks a broader security crisis. A
group allied with the PKK, the PJAK, has carried out attacks
in western Iran, again from bases in northern Iraq. Tehran
has accused Washington of tacitly supporting the PJAK in
Iran: in effect waging a proxy war. The PJAK’s activities in
Iran, coupled with Turkey’s decision, may make Tehran even
more intractable in nuclear talks and push the two nations
closer to a disastrous war.

The U.S. must follow through on President Bush’s prom-
ise to “fight the terrorists where they live” and force the
PKK, PJAK and other Kurdish separatist groups out of Iraq.
The GWOT is a war on ail terrorist organizations, even those
that do not attack U.S. interests. The House must not, under
any circumstances, pass the Armenian genocide bill.
American diplomats also need to assure a deeply offended
Turkey that it is a valuable ally and friend. This is not a rela-
tionship we can afford to lose and the U.S. must do every-
thing it can to stop Kurdish separatism.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Poltical Science and Music major from
Seminole, FL. Contact him at mapetit@ davidson.edu.

Students should strive for eco-friendly lifestyle

The polar ice-caps are melt-
1 ing, Al Gore just won the Nobel
Peace Prize and I—in all my
pale, awkward glory—wore a
sundress during the second
week in October. The globe is
warming, and I’m scared.

In recent years, we’ve been
inundated by reports of rising
ocean levels, rising tempera-
tures and rising fears of com-
plete world collapse (Yes, I saw
“The Day after Tomorrow”...in
theaters...for $7.50 plus pop-
corn and a drink. Yes, I’m slight-

assemble

ASHLEY SEMBLE _

ly ashamed).

In the wake of this crazy warm weather, I couldn’t help but
wonder what we at Davidson College are doing—or perhaps,
not doing—to save the world.

Tread an ABC news article recently that described global
warming as “so cool. . . so trendy.” I’d like to think that
wearing skinny jeans, leggings or loafers to the court is
“trendy.” Global warming should probably be described as
possibly “catastrophic” or “earth-destroying.” ’'m just
throwing that out there.

I'd prefer to think of global warming as a present issue
that must be dealt with and smote—like Britney Spears’ new
hit, “Gimme More” (probably the most-played song at strip
clubs across the nation).

As my idea for this article stewed, I began to notice sever-
al small environmental issues around campus. Martin Court
Apartments and F, home to the majority of the legal drinkers
on campus, use one recycling bin to dispose of the vast quan-
tities of Beast and Mad Dawg (and legitimate alcohol, too)
consumed. There is also one cardboard recycling receptacle
that only accepts certain types of cardboard. From my under-
standing, you cannot recycle beer cases—probably the most
frequently disposed-of cardboard item down the hill.

Increasing the number of recycling bins, especially in
Strategic spots, would make recycling more convenient and
therefore more common. The SGA and Physical Plant are
currently working together to address this issue.

Talso lived here over the summer while every outside light
at vacant F remained on. I appreciate that the lights remained
lit for safety reasons, but there is a way to concurrently save
energy and be safe.

A friend of mine proposed installing lights equipped with
motion sensors, thereby saving energy while simultaneously
scaring possible intruders. My friend got this idea after
drunkenly tumbling into a UNC dorm hallway in the middle
of the night, where he was promptly sobered up by the

newly-triggered hallway lights.

These suggestions, as well as the new eco-house, are both
steps in the right direction. But, as highly educated and capa-
ble students with potential coming out of our ears, we can
always do more. We can always strive to be better than we
are—cliché, but true.

Colleges like ours across the country are taking action.
Middlebury College—one of the most intensely “green”
schools in the nation—plans to reduce its carbon emissions
by eight percent by 2012. At Harvard, student residential
houses compete annually for the “Green Cup”—an award
that goes to the house with the greatest energy reductions and
increases in recycling. The list truly goes on and on.

T asked Dr. Chris Paradise, Davidson’s resident environ-
mental guru, for suggestions to help Davidson become
greener. He proposed simple tasks: turning off lights when
not in use, walking to class and turning off our computers at
night. These acts seem insignificant but have the potential to
have a profound effect on overall energy consumption and
gas emissions.

Dr. Paradise also informed me that President Ross is con-
sidering signing the President’s Climate Commitment—a
pledge by over 400 college presidents across the country to
help their schools become carbon neutral over the next sev-
eral years (a school is considered “carbon neutral” if it does
not emit greenhouse gases, emissions that contribute to the
greenhouse effect).

However, this is no simple task. Such a commitment
would be challenging, but if 400 colleges across the country
can do it, why can’t we?

I wrote this article mostly because I’m more guilty than
most of environment neglect. I forget to turn off lights, bare-
ly ever turn off my computer and never unplug my phone
charger.

I also wrote this article to make myself, along with the
Davidson community, aware of the enormity of our green
potential. When in doubt, just remember the ABC news arti-
cle. It’s cool—nay, trendy—to be green.

For more information on the President’s Climate
Commitment, check out www.presidentsclimatecommit-
mentorg.

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem,
N.C. Contact her at assemble @ davidson.edu.

Correction ©

Due to a technical error, Martina Mustroph’s article i in
the Oct, 10 Perspectives section was not titled or credited to

es IA a

