THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 27, 2008

ARTS

5

ee =:

‘No Country For Old Men’ sweeps Academy Awards

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

For weeks one could almost grasp the low,
excited susurrus emanating from arts and
aesthetic aficionados alike, who have been
anxiously awaiting the one night when the
brightest stars ascend from the silver screen
to the red carpet in a flurry of silk taffeta and
Armani.

The opulent display of wealth, beauty and
dedication to the art world of film culminat-
ed in this year’s 80th Academy Awards on
Feb. 24. And hidden behind the lambent
china doll faces and debonair Gatsby grins
were nerves of steel, as each nominee
patiently awaited the academy’s choices. The
results of the evening paid an enormous
amount of recognition to “No Country for
Old Men,” yet were seasoned by a few sur-
prising omissions, and left some contestants
completely empty-handed.

Representing a broad scope of film genres,
the nominees for Best Picture included the
bittersweet love story “Atonement,” foil ‘to
the unconventional teenage puppy-love-
gone-drastically-wrong “Juno.” Coming in at
a close call was a trilogy of this year’s
arguably most powerful films: “Michael
Clayton,” “There Will Be Blood” and “No
Country for Old Men,” the last of which took
the Oscar.

Daniel Day-Lewis won the title of Best

_BSC, Alpha Phi Alpha. and. Kappa rae
Psi]

“Their jokes would have been funny,

“they hadn't all been about race?” Ali Sutton

7 Last Saturday night, the- Union Board, . :

the hosts? She wasn’t the only one to com." rf
Plain about No Limit any (of, Power 98°

” Kappa. ‘sip ‘for »the~ women Zand,

Actor for his portrayal of Daniel Plainview,
the power-hungry protagonist of “There Will
Be Blood” (written, directed and produced
by Paul Thomas Anderson), thus beating out
strong contestants such as Johnny Depp in
his portrayal of “Sweeny Todd” and Tommy
Lee Jones in “In the Valley of Elah.” “Blood”
also was awarded “Best Cinematography.”
Holding their own amidst the torrent of
successful actors, French actress Marion

ey spent the whole show 1 ma
ing fun of what i is a serious issue on camp:

audience was trailing outina ‘steady stream.4 é
»Less than a fifth of the original crowd |

Ee

_ Davidson’s own Alpha Phi Alpha for the:

men, whose clever'“I Am Robot” parody °

Cotillard won Best Actress for her remark-
able transformation into the French
singer/songwriter legend Edith Piaf in “La
Vie en Rose,” also credited as “La M6me” in
the French version; the American version
also won Best Makeup. Other Best Actress
nominees included Cate Blanchett for her
role as the Virgin Queen, Julie Christie in
“Away: From Her,’ Laura Linney in “The
Savages” and Ellen Page for her part in

“Juno.” The Best Supperting Actress title
went to Tilda Swinton for “Michael
Clayton.”

A truly remarkable film, the Cohen broth-

rs’ “No Country for Old Men” received an
additional three laurels for its Best
Supporting Actor, Spanish actor Javier
Bardem, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best
Director.

Given such a crowd of accomplished and
seasoned film veterans, it might have seemed
slightly distasteful to award the young
“Juno” star a title for her comedic role cop-
ing with teen pregnancy, and rightly so; how-
ever, “Juno” did not depart the scene unrec-
ognized. Picking up an Oscar for Best
Original Screenplay, it goes to show that
what young actors might lack in experience
can be rectified by situational humor and
irony.

Like the beauty and charm of “La Vie en
Rose,” another Parisian-inspired wining film
displayed remarkable creativity with a
delightful cast of characters who certainly
revolutionized the culinary world.
“Ratatouille” rightfully marinated in its
glory of Best Animated Feature Film, beat-

- Take lunch to work
in reusable packaging

- Reuse carrier bags at
the supermarket

- Buy refillable or bulk items

- Cancel unwanted newspapers
and junk mail

- Take old clothes and books
to a charity shop
(they’re tax deductible!)

BE A RECYCLEMANITAC!

Know the 3 R’s: REDUCE - REUSE - RECYCLE

- Cycle or walk rather than driving

- Start composting in your garden

ing out two other contestants: “Persepolis”
and “Surf’s Up.” Adapted from the children’s
novel by Philip Pullman, “The Golden
Compass” received Best Visual Effects.

The best short film went to “Le Mozart des
Pickpockets,’ and. “Peter and the Wolf”
received the Best Animated Short Film. As
for documentaries, “Taxi to the Dark Side”
won the Best Documentary, and “Freeheld”
received Best Documentary Short.

Almost tying “No Country” for the num-
ber of awards received, “The Borne
Ultimatum” picked up three Oscars for the
film’s production quality: one for Sound
Mixing, Sound Editing and lastly Film
Editing.

“Atonement” finally received recognition
for Best Original Score; however, the song
“Falling Slowly,” performed by Glen
Hansard and Marketa Irglova from the film
“Once,” received Best Original Song.

The most underrepresented films of the
evening were “Elizabeth: The Golden Age,”
which finally received a win for Best
Costume, and “Atonement.”

No doubt the visual and historical repre-
sentation of “Elizabeth’s” costumes were
superb, but Blanchett should have received
recognition for her outstanding portrayal of
the powerful yet vulnerable woman instead
of her wardrobe. Blanchett was also nomi-
nated for Best Supporting Actress for her
role as Bob Dylan — and again, was out-
mached.

Likewise Joe Wright’s screen rendition of
Tan McEwan’s 2001 novel “Atonement”
should have been awarded something other

‘than, or in addition to, Original Score, which

seems more like a consolation prize than a
proper commentary on the film itself. The
story speaks of passion, sin and redemption
in 1935 England, acted to perfection.

One criticism came from a New York
Times review, which deemed the film a
“decorous, heavily decorated and ultimately
superficial reading of the book.” If the acad-
emy critics judged this film faute de mieux,
they probably should have read the book
themselves.

The choices for the Oscars this year reflect
a newfound stability in cinema, which had
suffered a hault in new material due to the
writers’ strike and loss of faith in its viewers.
This year, there was a particularly strong
preference for the emotionally charged behe-
moths of violence, rather than delicate intri-
cacies of romance or the key comedic buffer,
showing that Hollywood still has what it
takes to make gritty films of substance and
stand by them.

