. ARTS

Students enjoyed taste of Asia

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Last week the ACAA sponsored its annual
Asian Awareness week, devoting each day to
a different, engaging activity or demonstra-
tion relating to eastern culture.

In its mission statement, the club asserts
that it strives to “maintain a sense of unity
among the Asian American students of
Davidson College, while inviting all stu-
dents, Asian and non-Asian, to explore and
cultivate their interests in Asian and Asian-
American culture.” On Monday, the Union
Atrium buzzed with the energy and the tan-
talizing aromas of a sushi kitchen. Students
made their own sushi rolls and then relaxed
by enjoying their creations. Many people
who participated said that they could not
have found a bette better way to spend an after-

er Sg

noon. “It was a really unique [sic] opportuni-
ty to learn a cultural art form” Erin Godla ’10
said.

The week took a more serious tone
Tuesday night with a lecture by Economics
Professor Dr. Peter Hess entitled “Global
Poverty, Inequalit, and Sustainable
Development.” For nearly an hour, Hess dis-
cussed the importance of understanding the
roots of poverty. Though China has experi-
enced a recent economic boom, Hess
stressed that most other countries in Asia still
have astronomically high infant mortality
rates.

During a question and answer session fol-
lowing the talk, a student asked what will
alleviate global poverty. Hess replied that we
should all become informed and get
involved. “Individuals as well as nations can

ct,” Hess said. “Change will start small but

Freshman students enjoy their sushi creations this past Monday.

it will build.”

Wednesday night featured a film screening
in the 900 Room. The documentary, “White
Light/Black Rain,” followed the destructive
aftermath of the bombings of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki in August 1945, which led to
Japan’s eventual surrender in WWII.
Hiroshima’s mortality rate is estimated to be
between 140,000 and 70,000 people, while
160,000 others suffered from burn and radi-
ation injuries. The film by Academy Award
winning filmmaker Steven Okazaki includes
interviews with 14 survivors.

A dinner benefiting sex trafficking of vic-
tims in South East Asia was held in
Chambers on Friday night. Along with
ACAA, PS, the Davidson Women’s
Committee and Dean Rusk also supported
the event. Attendees enjoyed a delicious
meal featuring Asian cuisine provided by
PS’s skilled culinary team. Dishes included
spring roll appetizers, a thai udon noodle and
pork melange, tofu and caramelized bananas
for desert. Karen Kirk ’11 commented on the
work she and many others put into the dinner
and the importance of the money raised.

“Tt’s so easy to help out. Something small
like chopping tofu can make a difference,”
she said.

Finally, to round out a great week, the
ACAA and BSC brought comedian Vidur
Kapur to campus Saturday night. Kapur, who
performed a stand up routine, hails from
South Asia. He was recently selected as
“Favorite South Asian Comedian.”

The Asian Awareness Week was a success
that presented the Davidson community with
unique and enlightening opportunities to
gain exposure to the Asian culture and learn
about serious issues that impact the world.

Fall fashion tips for the style-impaired

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
A&L Editor

Despite unusually warm days undercut by
the occasional cool morning, we are official-
ly in that richly-colored season when days
grow shorter and skirts reach new lengths of
possibility. Fall is officially here, and we can
welcome the season with versatile trends that
blend old and new styles into retrospective
hybrids that are simple to achieve and fun to
wear.

Black is classic. Period. Style gurus from
New York, London and Paris use black like
it is going out of style, which keeps it perpet-
ually in mode. However, colder weather
means warmer colors, and hues in cranberry,
plum, mustard yellow, browns and jewel
tones are lovely this year.

Dresses

Wrap yourself in anything you can find.
Wrap dresses are versatile, complement most
figures and can be worn with anything from
leggings and a turtle neck to jeans, to a
bolero jacket or you can even wear them by
themselves.

Other styles include sweater fabric or
chunky knit dresses, trapeze cuts and tunics
with empire waists. Just remember to keep
the length reasonable.

Skirts

Like its older cousin, the dress, skirts are
the ultimate mark of femininity. Pretty and”
practical, they are an imperative staple in any
cool-weather wardrobe. Styles abound with
A-line, pencil, poof (yes, it’s back), wrap,
tartan, hounds tooth and herringbone all
making apperances.

And remember to cover-up those legs.

Wrap dresses can go with anything.
Pasty appendages do nothing for a classy A-

line skirt and jacket suit. Instead, warm up
with opaques, nylons, patterned tights, knee
socks, knit socks or even leg warmers.

Keep in mind that the styles are retro, so
you can mix a 30’s-cut skirt with a 20’s style
blouse for a fresh, distinct look.

Pants

This season you have two options as oppo-
site as black and white. First, the figure-
friendly, slimming tight jeans have returned
after their monumental debut last. season.
Opt for shades as dark as possible with a
minimal number of pockets and detail.

On the other hand, pants with extremely
wide legs are also in, but be wary. These
pants are typically cut high-waisted.

You can wear boots with either style, and
heels look especially nice with the wide-cut.

Shirts and Jackets

The more flounces the shirt has, the better

—think the 1930’s meet Jack Sparrow, but in.

moderation. We want to make Mr. Depp
proud, not look like we’re about to hoist the
colors. Soft ruffles and some fabric embell-
ishments are ideal.

Short jackets are a perfect compliment to
layer with these shirts. Choose from boleros,
jean jackets, cropped pea coats and dress suit
jackets. In fact, menswear-inspired pieces
cut to a woman’s body are ideal for a fun and
powerful statement.

Shoes

Omg. Shoes get noticed ubiquitously, and
unfortunately can make or break an outfit.
Luckily, there are plenty of styles to choose
from this season. Any funky color, pattern or
animal print is great; just keep the rest of the
outfit simple.

Shiny patent-leather has a heart-warming
retro feel, and are currently ‘mod-glam-
orous.’ For the brave, French-inspired ankle
boots are the It fall shoes. However, knee-
length boots and high heels are always
classy.

Accessories.

Oftentimes we underestimate the power of
accessories or completely neglect them.
Don’t! Accessories are the perfect (and easi-
est) way to spice up any outfit. Large ear-
rings, chains and eclectic charms work great
with sweaters and jackets, and if you have
several lying around, layer them. Large
funky cocktail rings and bangles bring

_ sparkle and attention to a dull outfit. Find

handbags in outrageously shiny colors and
patterns. This season, the bigger, funkier,
more geometrically challenging and femi-
nine, the better.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OCT 10, 2007

ee

ANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

Janice’ Karriker, an ‘employee at ‘the’
nion Café, recently sat down to discuss

wg

A: Almost seven years. now: J started
working here when a friend suggested if
give it a try, so 1 submitted my resume to
the College and was offered several dify.
ferent jobs. In the end I chose: the Café™
because there are so few employees here

- and the atmosphere i is friendlier and more.

e. re. practically a. family. Ing
