THE DAVIDSONIAN

and allowed Batty Bonds

i aba in his final game asa Gia
The dange of great feats built on a foundation of. dru;
ms. With all of this. said; L yearn to embrace the

Tevigomes my passion for the: game," : :
Hollywood might have-scripted September for ML

Big. “markets ‘like’ New York,” Boston, Chicago,” Lo
Angeles. and Philadelphia all have: teams playing: fall ball
poe “the

MLB this post-season. ” 4
While clearly a boon for the MLB, big payroll teams in
é playoffs are hardly a surprises the shock and joy is thai
even in the midst of’these big market. successes, playo:
Opes. proliferated around the league for so many ‘smalle
ms SO late. in the season. Seven National League team

romised bythe postseason. Out of the teams who woul
have made the playoffs if the séason ende in the middl
f July, none made it tothe final four:
luike in any’ good tragedy, the mighty fell with a thu
Three early/favorites collapsed from each. division down:
the homestretch : the Brewers, the Mets and the Padres: To
balance the equation, two teams with turbulent playoff hi
tories rose from the ashes to secure births; the Phillies and.
the Rockies. To add another perennial phoenix-to the duo,
the cursed Cubs won the pennant.”
“The emotional weight of these: turbulent changes sil
resonates. Whispering “Mets” makes Long Island shiver.
With a payroll of 101 miilion dollars, leading by seve
‘games with 17 to play, the promising season that: blo:
‘somed. through. spring rains slowly withered.” Weather
beaten, future Hall of Fame pitcher Tom Glavine gave up
‘seven runs over three innings to the unremarkable Florida
Marlins to seal the Met’s epic, unparalleled fall.”
Flipping the coin, the’ Philadelphia Phillies overcame:
_ their pitching to scratched and bit their way to the pennant
ehind an. onslaught.’ of“ hitting,’ The electricity’ in
hiladelphia when strike three went ‘past: National Willie
o Pena jumped through my TV and shot down my spine.
Yet event this story pales in comparison to the 13 inning.
yne-game playoff between the Rockies and Padres, featur
g, favorites for the National League CY: Young, Rooki
f the Year and MVP in a do-or-die matchup, * /
The Padres thought they clinched the. Wild Card after

2s

two doubles, a triple and a dramatic play at the plate tha
eft the runner bleeding from the mouth left them stunned,’

‘om my seat. “
While none of these plots ‘provide. a panacea for base
ball’s off-field scandals, it reminds me of why we must fi
¢ game. To put faith in these narratives, trust is required
trust now flaunted by some big leaguers. Despite base
» ball’s , imperfections, with a Litde League spiri¢, Pil hop:
for healing and savor October’s cleansing, cathartic prom:

Wildcat Roundup

Volleyball (6-12) Football (3-1)

3-0 loss against College of Charleston
3-1 win against The Citadel
3-1 loss vs. Furman

Next up:
Next up: 10/6 vs. Morehead St.
10/6 at Elon 10/20 vs. Drake
10/7 at UNC-Greensboro
Notes:
Notes:

Behind the ‘Cats’ solid offernsive line,
Katie Pierucci ’08 stepped up with 29 Kenny Mantuo ’11 and Chad Barnes ’09
accumulated 213 rushing yards versus
Jacksonville. That total was the highest

kills and 17 digs against The Citadel
to break the ’Cats’ nine-match losing

streak. so far this season.

For professional athletes, when does fun and friendly com-
petition cross over into gambling activity that could com-
promise the integrity of their sport? League rules in all
major sports clearly prohibit players from betting on league
contests. Failure to comply with these rules can yield harsh
sanctions— take for example, Pete Rose’s current ban from
the Baseball Hall of Fame. However, the rising popularity
of fantasy sports in recent years has complicated the pic-
ture. Owing to the vague policy of the NFL league-office

significantly blurred.
The fantasy-sports industry attracts over 19 million “man-
agers” per year, mostly through online services provided by

annual revenue. Over 80 percent of participants are

_ involved in fantasy football leagues, while fantasy baseball
also draws a significant following.

Game-broadcasts and sports networks have bought into the
current fantasy frenzy. NFL broadcasts commonly run tick-.
ers of the day’s top individual performers. ESPN aired a

_ highly-publicized “NFL Fantasy Football Special” before
the season, in which “experts” such as Tampa Bay line-
backer Cato June selected most of his former Colts team-
mates.

By drafting Peyton Manning in the first round, June, an
active defensive player, was speculating on the performance
of an opposing quarterback he will face in Week 5. It’s
doubtful that Cato is experiencing a serious conflict of

20-10 win against Jacksonville

SPORTS

interest, but couldn’t
these situations
potentially compro-
mise the sport? |
Professional athletics
have been plagued
by gambling contro-
versies from the
1919 Chicago White

that regulated player activity in fantasy football, the line Sox through the
between acceptable and unacceptable behavior has become _ recent offenses of
NBA referee Tim

Donaghy. Most like-
ly, the NFL will

Yahoo! and ESPN. While most leagues formed on these argue that Michael
sites are free, the industry is booming through online adver- Vick violated league
tising revenue. Kim Beason, in an article in Information policy on gambling
Week, estimated that the industry draws up to $3 billion in in his illegal dog-

fighting operation.
Isn’t an NFL player
speculating on the

football.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

13

Does Fantasy Football cross the line?

Should Cato June be allowed to
play fantasy football?

opposition’s performance objectionable? According to the
NFL league offices it’s not. Moreover, the NFL recognizes
that money (quite often large sums) is involved in these
leagues. Still, they maintain that there is a substantial differ-
ence between betting on games and participating in fantasy

It’s harder for me to make the distinction between betting
and player participation in fantasy leagues that involve
money. I’m not suggesting that
NFL players would alter their
performances to cash-in on

See Fantasy,
page 14

Carolina ‘Pampers’ lack emotion

By Omar PICKETT
Staff Writer

How Bout Dem “Pampers”?

The Carolina Panthers are finished.

That is right. Only a quarter of the
way through the season, I’m ready to
say that the 2007 season is in the toi-
let. I understand that Carolina still
has 12 games left and that teams have
started the season 2-2 and even 1-3
and made the playoffs. I understand
that the NFC South is such a terrible
division that Tim Tebow’s Florida
Gators would challenge for a division
crown.

I understand that a 9-7, or maybe
even an 8-8 record could get you to
the playoffs in the lowly NFC. But
trust me on this: the Carolina
Panthers are finished. What’s wrong
with the Panthers? In short, everything but Steve Smith.

The offense is abysmal, especially if the team is stuck
with bubble boy at quarterback, David Carr. After being
sacked almost 300 times in Houston, Carr is too scared to let
a play develop. His fear was evident against Tampa Bay as
he completed 3 of 11 passes in the first half, and went 19-41
in the game for a whopping 155 yards.

Meanwhile, DeShaun “Butterfingers” Foster fumbled the
ball twice, and only rushed for 64 yards. But, as Mel Kiper
once said, “you can’t run through a brick wall.” The offen-
sive line got dominated off the line of scrimmage, arguably
for the third straight game. Quite frankly, the offense, as it
stands now, looks like a train wreck.

The Panther defense may be even worse. I can’t find any
talent or effort in this unit, except for Kris Jenkins and
Ma’ake Kemoeatu possibly challenging Kobayoshi in the
hot dog eating contest. The highly touted defensive line

David Carr has not been productive
for the Cats.

NFL career.

Women’s Soccer (4-3) Men’s Soccer (1-7)
2-1 win against Appalachian State 2-0 loss against Elon
5-0 win against The Citadel
Next up: Next up:

10/3 vs. South Carolina
10/6 vs. Furman

10/4 at Furman
10/7 vs. Francis Marion
Notes: Notes:
Robby Goldsberry ’10 made six saves for
the Wildcats in their loss to Elon. The

defeat extends the team’s losing streak to
four games.

Lauren Conner ’10 earned SoCon Player
of the Week honors after scoring the
game winning goal against Appalachian
State in double overtime and the opening
goal of the 5-0 win against the Citadel.

can’t get any pressure on the quarter-
back. Julius Peppers, the so called “Best
Defensive End in the NFL”, is being
dominated by no-name offensive tackles
like Wayne Gandy and Jermaine
Trueblood.

The linebacker unit is a mess; Jon

Beason and Thomas Davis appear to be
running away from the ballcarriers. The
Panther secondary is a fantasy football
nightmare, making opposing quarter-
backs look like perennial Hall of Famers.
Coming into week four, the Panthers had
an opposing quarterback rating of 97.7.
To put this in perspective, the NFL
record for highest career passer rating is
96.8,
Embarrassing? I think so.

held by Steve Young.

Still, the Panthers biggest issue is not

the lack of talent on offense or defense.
When the Panthers made it to the Super Bowl in the 2003
season, they were cleverly nicknamed “the Cardiac Cats.”
Two years earlier, when they were 1-15, the only fans at
their games wore paper bags over their heads.

When the Panthers hired John Fox, a defensive coordina-
tor from the Giants, one television commentator stated,
“They might as well hire Jamie Foxx!” The team had an
anonymous quarterback who had never started a game in his

But that team played with an attitude. The players were
desperate to prove that they belong among the NFL’s elite.
That team didn’t have huge stars, but it played with some-
thing almost as important as X’s and O’s: heart. This
Carolina Panther squad has no heart, no drive and no will to
win. They just go out there, run around, get hit and get a
paycheck. That’s a problem deeper than X’s and O’s, and it
will cause them to have one long season.

Field Hockey (6-3)

8-0 loss to Michigan State
12-1 win against Catawba

Next:
10/5 vs. Pacific
10/13 vs. Dartmouth

Notes:

Rebounding from two tough losses, the field
hockey team scored a team-record 12 goals in
their game against Catawba. Catherine
Ransome ’08 and Courtney Tobe "11 both
made hat tricks in the victory.

—
