THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ee

Development, from p page 1

.However, .the Planning Ordinance _... The possibility of a Commuter rail train.
equired that ETJ landowners maintain— © stop between Davidson and neighboring’
ithout compensation—50% of their land * Mooresville brought the two towns together
s “open space,”-The ETJ regulations in 2006 to discuss the implications of both
_ sparked outcry from ETI residents, Ninety. “the train and wider growth. The commuter
» percent of ETJ landowners joined “Stop ” Yail continued fo be a much discussed and a:
_Taking Our Property”: (STOP). Protestors . yet unresolved transport issue. fee
osted. signs around town and in‘the ETJ In; 2006,).“The.. Charlotte “Observer
_that read,/ "Stop. the Land Grab,”, and reported. that: Davidson’s population was -
“Don’t Take Our Land.” Residents felt that — / 8,100. Krider estimated at the time that the.
: _ they were being denied the opportunity-to |< number would increase to. 14,000 with pro-,
maximize. the profit value of their land ~ jected growth and development, This year,
when approached with offers from devel-~ “Krider told The Davidsonian that he expects
pers./The ‘town maintained that such growth to level off at about 15,000 or
estrictions would ultimately increase land “<-16,000 people. The town’s goal, as reported
alue and desirability. ETJ residents threat- e by “The Observer,” was “to attract young |
ned to sue the town for an infringement ¢ of 2 professionals and empty nesters who want;
“to live within walking distance of business-
»-es and a stop on. the proposed commuter
train to Charlotte. The 5,200 to 5,500. peo-:
ple who live in downtown reside mostly i i
older single-family homes?’
Also in 2006, after, lengthy negotiations
and discussions, two. roundabouts kicked,
off Exit:30, development at Davidson |
_ Gateway ‘Drive and Griffith Street. and at
’ the intersection of Griffith and Jetton.
Streets, “We are looking at a long-term plan, :
that. begins with the roundabouts/”
_ told “The Lake Norman Time:

: “The Charlotte Observer.”

ET] residents and the town of Davidson |
inally reached a. settlement in which the”
own bought. a. significant portion of the <
TJ land, including Fisher t Farm, for con

The Charlotte Observer” reported. that
town consulted College biology profes
sors to create. a map outlining which areas.
in the ETJ were optimal for preservation .
and which were better suited for building. ©.
. Despite the. town’s good-faith efforts to
© conserve land ina time of rapid growth, the
TJ. land. issue- polarized Davidson area__*The. Charlotte Observer’? also reported,
esidents. - ». on Davidson’s. APFO, which it says is the
_.:The Planning Ordinance included an. only one in existence in the Lake Norman
_ APFO, or, “Adequate Public Facilities’. area, “The town stands to collect more than
~ Ordinance,” which was designed to “see to..$1 million in the next-few years. to. go.
: it that we don’t have more development.:toward law enforcement, community parks |
» than we can adequately. accommodate,”” ’ and greenways if all of i its approved projects.
= Mayor Randall Kincaid said. The primary are. built” Krider told “The Observer.”
ix facilities outlined in the APFO were » “Most developers will incur. a charge ‘of.
streets, law, enforcement, fire protection, . about $2,0 000. | Per. “unit Per building <3
-ommunity parks, greenways and afford- , Davidson.” eo
fee - 'The Observer” valso.: “reported ha
n 2002, “CV Se, approached the town » Charlotte Area: Transit. System (CATS).
bout the then-empty lot on the corners of /, « Transit. chief Ron Tober recommended to’
Main and Lorimer. The town. and. CVS. the’ Metropolitan “Transit.. Commission’
egotiated design and style issues to ensure. (MTC) that it pursue the commuter rail to.
that the building would comply with the :
_ Planning Ordinance and town development
/_ vision. o ee

University. City, The projected costs were.
-higher than the similar 2002 plan the MTC
approved. “‘We?re. working on, a multi-bil-.
_lion-dollar_ project that’s, occurring over a.
Z 720- to, 30-year period/?7 Kincaid « said, :

eported a. disturbing fact—that. it had
_-become impossible to find a/1,000-acre
block | of. ; contiguous 7, “raw“ “land” i

. “and residential developments were sched:
_ for a down payment: The Fishers agreed to uled to open their doors in 2007, includin;
finance-the remainder at S% interest over a the Harris Teeter, the retail and office com
_ period of 20 years. =.
_* In. 2003, consistent with its vision of. School. Davidson, Town. Manager Leamon.
managed growth, the town approved the~, Brice told “The Observer”. that plans for th :
_, development of 50. acres in the northeast... upcoming year include improving affor
2 quad near exit 30. According to Blackburn, » » able housing, According to “The Observer,
| _“[t}he intent is to draw the development’. “The town wants to expand the salary range.
= pressure to the exit,” leaving downtown © © for qualified tenants to attract more teach-
~ free to grow in a manner consistent with its “ ers, police officers, nurses and others in the,
«small-town image. ~ service industries.”
_--1n 2005, Cornelius, Davidson and .* The town also plans t to , address “traffi
Huntersville began discussing the possibil- «. calming and a plan for bicycle navigation.
ty of a. co-developed. “industrial park.”.%-Krider had the last. word: of the. year?
The towns.finalized the deal later in the“ a “Growth is something (that), if well man-’
year, sharing four million dollars. in pur-.< pte can | preserve what’ s ; good about the
chasing and development costs.’ Prairie” town.” .
Packaging, which manufactures disposable — OS :

dinnerware, moved into the facility, bring- “.’* After Fall Break, the series will resume

ing with it a projected 240 new jobs and © with coverage of current development proj-.

_ $48 million. in investment, according to “ects and the upcoming town elections. **
ing, “Working closely with this Wildcat —

Habitat, from page 1 _
House has proven to be the highlight of my

possible without the good will and efforts of year thus far. I feel very privileged to have a
the Davidson community. We are grateful to _ role in continuing this project, the lifeblood
be able to serve with the same time and care of which has been the amazing support of
Jania has given us; such tangible opportuni- Davidson students, faculty and townspeople.
ties are few and far between.” From last year’s fundraising to this year’s

Carson echoes Huang’s sentiments, say- construction, this project has revealed yet

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

3

Union to close earlier on weekends?

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Student Government Association
(SGA) met last week to debate a number of
issues, mostly focusing on a discussion of
the new “Real Talk” initiative, the need to
update campus maps scattered on College
property and whether the Union will retain
its late night hours or close earlier on week-
ends.

On the issue of the maps, senators and
other students have noticed that the large
campus maps found in locations especially
off Main St. and Concord Rd. are out-of-
date. The CoHo House and FIJI House are
misrepresented, and some visitors to campus
who are looking for the Outpost mistakenly
go to FIJI.

Though the maps were put up only a few
years ago, campus geography has changed
since that time.

David Greene 08, vice-president of SGA,
said that the issue could be handled outside
of a resolution and recommended that SGA
speak to Admissions about the maps.

“This is something that should be handled
through committees,” Chris Burton °08,
president of SGA, said. He advised that SGA
representatives speak to Admissions and
Director of the Physical Plant David
Holthouser to address and correct the prob-
lem.

The student votes for the Real Talk project
were tallied last week, and by number of
votes, the results are: environmental policy
(95), diversity (91), mental illness (81), alco-
hol policy (66), town development (53),
honor council (31), sexual misconduct (29)
and other (20).

There were a total of 466 votes.

The senators debated whether, because of
recent events involving diversity discourse
and race issues, the Real Talk Project should
continue to discuss diversity rather than
move onto the new most popular topic of
environmental policy.

‘Whitney White ’08 said that she can see
the “importance of capitalizing on momen-
tum” and continuing the diversity dialogue.

“I think people were. making a very
informed decision,” she said, “and diversity
and environmental policy are close.”

Burger, from page 1
“smaller things in life more fun.”

Eighteen months after arriving at Burger
King, Chidsey was named CEO of Burger
King Inc. and continues to take risks even in
that line of work.

Several students questioned Chidsey on
the problems he has encountered in the busi-
ness world. “You’re often faced with ethical
decisions in life, but the ethical traning you

again how incredible the members of our
community can be.”

The house will cost approximately
$66,550 to build, and a portion of that money
will go towards constructing three more
Habitat houses in Guatemala as part of
Habitat International’s tithing program.

Habitat affiliates, such as Our Town’s

Other senators felt that with the higher
vote outcome and the current drought situa-
tion, environmental policy would be very
important to discuss in Real Talk.

“I want to thank everyone for their hard
work,” Burton said at the meeting. The
rationale behind Real Talk, he added, was “‘to
create passion in people,” and he reminded
senators that they need to commit them-
selves fully in order for it to work.

Following that discussion, William
Brown, the College Union Director and
Coordinator of Student Activities, addressed
the room. Brown said that he has done many
surveys and spoken to students, and food is
always the number one priority for those vis-
iting and using the Union.

“It’s above meetings. It’s above events.
It’s the principal reason people come,” he
said. When the Outpost opened, the late
night hours saw less students.

He proposes closing the Union earlier on
Fridays and Saturdays, at 1:30 a.m.

“T think we’re ready to do this,” he said.

Students surveyed came to the Union in
large numbers at the beginning of the semes-
ter, but after First Night Down, these num-
bers dropped significantly.

“T think we can probably close at 1:30
a.m.,” he said, “and let the workers go home
early. We have never had a program that
late.”

Some senators expressed concern that an
earlier closing would affect Union gym
hours on the bottom floor. Brown answered
that there would still be CatCard access and
that only Friday and Saturday hours would
be changed.

Although the Union would not be saving a
substantial amount of money by this action,
Brown emphasized that the workers in the
Union Cafe and other staff needed in the
building would be able to go home at a more
reasonable time.

“It’s not a huge amount of money [we
would be saving],” Brown said. “It definite-
ly takes a toll to the person that works there.”

White reminded everyone at the conclu-
sion of the meeting that the Academic Policy
Committee will discuss the educational
experience for students at Davidson tonight,
Wednesday evening, at 7:30 p.m. in the
Union.

get here [Davidson] will serve you well.”

Chidsey suggested that because of such
training, Davidson students are better leaders
than many of those found in the business
world.

Chidsey ended his lecture by encouraging
students to do as much as they can interna-
tionally and to go out and change the world.

“Take risks in life,” he told the audience.
“If you don’t take risks in life, usually good
things don’t happen.”

Habitat for Humanity, through which
Davidson Habitat operates, send approxi-
mately $5,000 from every house they fund to
build other houses overseas.

For more information or to volunteer,
please email Josh Carson or contact Kevin
Buechler by email or phone at (704) 894-
2298.
