. ARTS

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

A month and a half of meticulous planning
culminated in a successful and powerful art
show featured in the Union Atrium last
week. Building Tomorrow’s (BT) art show,
entitled “The Children of the World:
Through the Eyes of Your Peers” debuted
Monday, Oct 22 with an opening party.
Nearly SO people attended the kick-off event,
where they were able to chat with artists,
enjoy food from the Eco Co-Op and admire
the photography and artwork on display.

Building Tomorrow (BT), a student-run
organization, created the art show to raise
awareness about the lives of children in
developing nations.

The photos were. based upon several paint-
ings by Tierney Hodge ’09 that depict
impoverished children in varying in their sit-
uations and emotions.

About her paintings, Hodge said, “I feel
that I am a passionate and empathetic person,
and I’ve always been drawn to images of
poverty and the emotions that individuals in
those situations experience. I believe that the
face and body express emotions better than
words ever could, and I wanted to portray the
emotions that individuals in situations of
poverty experience through their facial and
bodily expressions.”

While Building Tomorrow’s focus is
building schools in Uganda, the organiza-
tion’s art show reflected a global spectrum,
with photos of children from developing
countries such as India, Nicaragua, Kenya
and the Philippines.

“BT recognizes that unequal access to
education is a global problem, not limited to
Uganda.”Andela Soper ‘08, one of the BT’s
leaders, said, “We wanted to raise awareness
about this issue while giving Davidson stu-
dents a chance to share about all of the places
they’ve visited and the people they’ve met
through travel abroad.”

Proceeds from the art show go towards the construction of schools in Uganda.

BT completed its first school in Kampala,
Uganda last year. Davidson’s chapter of the
organization, which is one of 10 on US col-
lege campuses, hopes to raise the $35,000
necessary for construction. Last year, the
organization raised almost a third of that
money. To help reach this goal, Hodge’s
prints and all the photographs were available
for purchase. The prints were available for
$10 dollars; the photographs came with the
suggestion of an $8 donation.

Lindsay Kallman ’10 headed the show’s
organization. To find photos, she advertised
the event and asked anyone with photos to
submit their work. In the end, nearly every
picture submitted was featured in the exhibi-
tion.

Sarah Kay Knicely ’09 contributed sever-
al snapshots from her trip last summer to the
Phillippines. Knicely spent six weeks work-
ing on an independent service project with
funds from the Community Service Office
and Dean Rusk. She described her favorite
photo moment caught on film: “My favorite
moment was captured in the photo of two
sisters, aged five and three. They were squat-
ter children who lived near an orphanage
where I was working. They were both very
shy at first, but loved being held and twirled
around, so they warmed up to me soon

enough. They begged to have their picture
taken, so I decided to do a close-up of
them. Right before I snapped the picture, the
older one gave bunny ears to her little sister.”

Endearing moments such as these were
abundant in the photos on display. Images of
smiling children were powerfully and
poignantly juxtaposed with the reality of
poverty. A constant reminder of both the joy
and the suffering found in our world today,
the art show encouraged students to think
about how they can help others.

“J hope that people will be able to see the
beauty and the strength of these children”
Knicley remarked. “They have lived through
more trials than I can wrap my head around
and, as a result, have had a bit of their child-
hood stolen from them. I hope that people
can see the reality of their struggle, and in
doing, so be inspired to do something about
it.”

Building Tomorrow’s art show stressed
that the children shown in the photos and art-
work are no different from the children who
play soccer on the Town Green or sip milk-
shakes in the Soda Shop. They all smile,
laugh and try to enjoy life to the fullest. BT
hopes that this realization will inspire stu-
dents to help alleviate global poverty.

International festival has global appeal ©

By CAROLINE WooD
Staff Writer

After two full days with mom and dad, one
lengthy inauguration ceremony and a lazy
Saturday afternoon, the last leg of parents’
weekend may have found a lull in entertain-
ment. To help alleviate potential ennui, who
could have concocted a better diversion than
a huge room filled with bright colors, loud
noises, crowds of people and free food?
Enter the International Festival, where curi-
ous students, warm-hearted parents and
hyper little brothers enjoyed every delight in
the Davidson International Association arse-
nal.

A much more extensive production than
last year’s festivities, last Saturday’s event

featured tables representing a myriad of
countries, from Ghana to Bulgaria and
Palestine. Each table, manned by Davidson
students, featured its own unique cultural
display to entice onlookers. Some offered
academic fact sheets discussing language,
religion and culture, while others touted slide
show presentations depicting the local coun-
tryside.

Many showed off random assortments of
everyday items, books and traditional knick-
knacks. Palestine’s table, for example, shone
with a gilded, enshrined hookah pipe, and
Afghanistan’s array of richly colored beaded
jewelry was impossible to miss.

Most guests agreed that the diverse culi-
nary samplings were the highlight of the fes-
tival. Anyone planning on eating dinner after

Morgan Koukopo os mugs for the camera as students prepare for the Dance
Ensemble shows this Friday and Saturday. Tickets are on sale in the union.

his or her visit was surely foiled by the vast
selection: a few dishes included Indian veg-
etabie biryani, Jamaican cod fritters, Greek
cured cheese and Hungarian palascinta.

Whether purchased from a shop, restau-
rant or handmade by students (sometimes
right in front of you), every dish was surpris-
ingly delicious and left me feeling happily
full.

Visitors only had to wait until 6:00 p.m.,
when a procession of Davidson’s most eclec-
tically talented students had the opportunity
to show off their international dance skills.

No folk dance enthusiast could have left
unsatisfied, whether his or her passion be
tango, Bulgarian folk dancing, bellydance or
the national dance of Venezuela. The
sequence of dances was interrupted only by
the occasional martial arts display or recita-
tion of Chinese poetry.

Although the overall event had a charm-
ingly chaotic vibe, there were a few unsatis-
fied sentiments among students. The belly-
dancers claimed to be ashamed of their hap-
hazard, last-minute performance (although it
didn’t fail to impress the audience).

In addition, one student managing a dis-
play complained that he had been informed
of his duties only the day before, and anoth-
er student explained that most of the items
that had been gathered for her table were not
actually from the country.

Nevertheless, anyone wandering into the
Union Atrium fast Saturday would have
found a delightful and fascinating exposition
of the skill, knowledge and culture of our
friends and peers.

IVING

: Plane \ with you all night.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OCT 31, 2007

se pe coucnre

Halloween costume ideas
for lazy procrastinators!, :

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
et Writer

pulling some”6 ini favors ideas, and. ”
grouping them. into Halloween-friendly

For those of you who have an hour 0
ess - until your costume’s.-debut, : Yes.
hey’re cheesy but you'll definitely b
_remembered:*
|» Drowned Ophelia ~ Stick flowers in
‘your hair and dress in a long gown, Paint.

= your face blue and spray yourself: with

a
Lo 2

water.
Ceiling Fan ~ Dress up like a cheer-"
leader and carry a. sign that says “Go |
Ceilings!”
“ Nudist on Strike — Wear ‘normal
clothes and carry a sign that Says “Nudist _
_on Strike? >
Quarterback — Tape a quarter to your
back. It’s ingeniously simple. ,
Aireraft Carrier — Carry around a toy |

