2 THE DAVIDSONIAN
| ee = at come ae ~e- —_
i =
ae y .
Wels POLL Ea LOT Ms
= |
10/04/07 11:45 p.m. Patterson Court

Treeagbas coumnsy of NASA: The Vinbie Earth, beh istalesath cash gos

Campus Police received a call about a complaint of loud music coming from the
campus. Officers were aware that the music was most likely coming from Patterson
Court where there were scheduled parties. The reporting officer spoke with members of
the houses having the parties. Everyone was very cooperative and willing to assist. The
reporting officer had those houses close their windows and doors to prevent the sound
from carrying across campus. After clearing the call, the reporting officer checked for
noise from several outside points, on Main Street and Concord Rd. The officer then
focused on the noise from Martin Court-F, and a number of students were dispersed
from the area without incident.

10/04/07 2:31 p.m. Cemetery on Ridge Rd.

An officer was contacted on the Campus Safety cell phone in reference to several
subjects at the cemetery on Ridge Rd. Upon arrival, two reporting officers observed
approximately 15-20 subjects in the cemetery. One of the subjects told the police that
they were from a chemistry class at UNC-Charlotte, and that they were looking for a
certain grave belonging to a renowned chemistry professor. The officers advised the
subject that the grave was located on Main St in Davidson. The subjects left without
incident.

10/05/07 2:09 p.m. Chambers

An officer was dispatched on Friday afternoon to Chambers due to a subject being
trapped inside an inoperative elevator. Upon arrival, the officer located the elevator (at
the center of the building) and pressed the “up” button. The pressing of the “up” but-
ton caused the elevator to reach the first floor and to open, releasing the occupant.
Davidson Fire Department had been dispatched to the scene, but the responding officer
cancelled the call and contacted Davidson College Physical plant to do any necessary
repairs. No further action was required.

10/05/07 9:23 p.m. Martin Court-F

An officer heard music that exceeded a normal level coming from Martin Court-F.
On arrival, it was apparent the music was coming from speakers placed outside of an
apartment. Students at the apartment complied with the request to turn down the music.
While on the call, the reporting officer noticed that the blankets that hang inside the ele-
vator in the middle of Martin Court-F had been removed and thrown onto the grass.
The blankets did not appear to be damaged. The officer took the blankets and turned
them over to the Physical Plant.

10/05/07 11:35 p.m. Warner Hall

An officer heard music that exceeded a normal level coming from Warner Hall. The
reporting officer found only four female students in the house dancing. The students
complied with the officer’s request to turn down the music.

10/06/07 9:47 p.m -Ryburn

An officer observed Davidson students walking in the road headed toward Martin
Court-F carrying a large trunk cooler. The officer stopped the four students at Ryburn.
They were very cooporative, admitting that they were taking a large amount of beer to
Martin Court-F. The reporting officer had the students pour out the beer.

jump
on the opportunity to see the
world from a unique perspective

Tf you're curious and adventurous
then pack your bags and say
goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit.
experience a different culture, learn
a foreign language, discover who
you are and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world

The French Department welcomes Dr. Caroline Baschea-Fache.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

9 courtesy

New addition to French
Department brings spunk

By ALIsSSA CURRAN
News Editor

The saying “joie de vie” is more than a
cliché for Professor of French Caroline
Baschea-Fache. It is a way of life, and the
department’s newest addition brings her
newfound zeal for teaching to Davidson.
How her colorful and fast-paced past led her
to this small, quiet liberal arts school is an
interesting story.

Baschea-Fache grew up in Lille, France.
She pursued a Masters degree in translation
at Université Charles de Gaulle with a spe-
cialty in subtitling movies. Her first job
entailed dividing movies into time codes,
which involves heavy editing so that each
scene contains a certain number of charac-
ters for the translations. She spent time
working at the Festival de Cannes while
studying for her degree.

In 2000, Baschea-Fache came to the
United States to pursue a doctorate at
Indiana University at Bloomington. There
she had her first teaching experience.

While Baschea-Fache still hopes to pursue
translating, she is enjoying teaching for the
moment. African-francophone literature is
her major field of interest. She explores the

‘Can you think of some-
thing funny to put here? |

question of biracial identity, something not
often studied until recent years. Half
African-American and half French herself,
Baschea-Fache said that racial identity has.
been an integral part of her life.

This semester, Baschea-Fache teaches
French 201 (Intermediate French) and
French 220 (Introduction to Literature:
Portraits of Women).

“T like teaching 201 because it is a turning
point; students will have fulfilled their lan-
guage requirement at the end of this course,”
Baschea-Fache said. “There is a definite
challenge from a teaching perspective—try-
ing to grab the student’s interest enough so
that he or she continues to study French.”

Baschea-Fache has been highly impressed
with Davidson students’ integrity and work
ethic.

“What struck me most is how sharp the
students are. What I say is understood quick-
ly, integrated and then students are ready to
move on...I’ve been impressed.” -

Tatenda Musapatike ’10 is currently a stu-
dent in Baschea-Fache’s French 220 course.

“The class is very conversational...She
wants you to be excited, and you+ can tell
she really wants to produce enthusiasm for
French,” Musapatike said.

