Staff. Editorial

EI st GOP PEELS Bata os 5
On Oct. 19 resident Ross joined the likes 0 ‘Amherst,
Haverford and Williams in signing a statement on college
rankings and information sharing, We wonder how many
students know this happened and how. many: know: what it
means, On the surface, the document recognizes the college
admissions frenzy as problematic and seeks to demystify
the national ranking formulas on which so many students
depend, Signers of the document pledge to make the infor-
mation.on which rankings are based, such as class sizes and
graduation rates, available on their websites, Instead of pro-
viding the information exclusively to publications like,“US
News and World Report” that rank colleges, the document
pledges not to include ranking information i in College pu
lications.. ‘
e agree e that providing students with as much informa-
tion as possible is in both the schools’ and the students’ best
interests. Moreover, in theory, the decision to de-emphasize
these rankings is.a good one. In practice, however, we rec-
ognize that for many students, particularly those without
the benefit of college counselors or those who come from
mediocre publie high schools, these rankings offer the first
glance into the world of small liberal arts colleges. Though
the rankings have their faults, they do provide an accessi-
ble way for students, parents and guidance counselors to
find high-quality schools that don’t necessarily have name
recognition. If it weren’t:, for ..these :.rankings, The
Davidsonian’s editorial board might look different because
some of us only learned of Davidson through these rank-
ings. Though we do. think that the College almost embar-
rassingly flaunted its ranking in the past, we do not think it
necessary that the College abstain from mentioning its
rankings in publications, specially if it t appears alongside
the data itself. 4 «7° ae

. We do, however, think. it necessary * that the College
abstain from a practice that this document fails to mention.
We refer to the “reputational survey,”: which asks colleges
to evaluate each other on a questionnaire. This accounts for
25% of the “U.S: News and World Report” rankings. That
san.entirely.subjective:measure accounts, for one-quarter of.
the rankings is ridiculous, More to. the point, though, the
“reputational survey” gives colleges an incentive to rank
their opponents lower than they otherwise would i in order to
lift themselves in the rankings. , oe BERS

» Obviously we would not. expect Davidson, with its
Honor Code and emphasis on integrity, to manipulate the
rankings in this manner. Even so, precisely because of our
emphasis on integrity, we would like to see Davidson join
lower-ranking schools in abstaining from the peer-ranking
system. Currently, among the top 25 ranked schools, only
fourth-ranked Wellesley refuses to participate in the survey,
and it has done so for the last decade. When lower-ranking
schools take this step, it is easy to reason—justifiably or
not—that they are.trying to strategize their way. into the
upper rankings. If more high-ranking schools. like
Davidson, especially with our emphasis on integrity, were
to take this step, it would be a powerful statement. |

The Babvidsonian

5 ALENDA LUX LIBIORTA LIBERTAS o

¢

Editor-in-Chief
““"Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo
News Editors

Perspectives Editors
“Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Mike: Wellman...
: Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors .
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle
Photography Editor _
Ben Elinor. a”
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

2°The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
: by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student, Pleas
~ address all correspondences to: The David: sonian,
vids

»mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in.
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in:
_ letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the
© yiews of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscription
cost $50.00 per-year,.-Adyertising rates are available upon request

‘opyright is. held by the Trustees of Davidson College

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 31, 2007

Health Center a threat to student health

¢ Davip DENNIS
Guest Columnist

Earlier this year, WWE wrestling superstar Chris Benoit
shocked the world when he murdered his wife and child and
committed suicide. Autopsy reports revealed that he suffered
severe brain damage and dementia linked to his years in
wrestling.

The WWE, and its owner, Vince McMahon have come
under the media’s scrutiny and face a Congressional hearing
because it is stipulated that McMahon creates an environ-
ment for his wrestlers that leads to this behavior.

Wrestlers’ injuries’ are often misdiagnosed. They are told
that their injuries are far less severe than they actually are so
that the athletes can rush back on the road to perform and
continue to make the company money. When they are diag-
nosed correctly, wrestlers often pop pain killers instead of
taking time off because they fear losing their “spot” on the
roster.

Self-treatment, usually consisting of overdosing on pain-
killers, alcohol and recreational drugs, results. Ignored
injuries and drug abuse pile up, and wrestlers are found dead
at early ages from burnout.

Though Benoit and his fellow wrestlers’ conditions sound
harsh and inhumane, that scenario is not very different from
Davidson College’s environment,

Last week, I went to our school’s Health Center to check
on a fever that I had been suffering from for two days. The
nurse gave me Tylenol and told me to come back the next
day to see the doctor. I obliged, saw the doctor and again
received Tylenol. No blood work. No X-ray.

That night, I took a trip to the Emergency Room and found
out I had “walking pneumonia”. The disease at first slowly
creeps into the system with minor symptoms. Then, once
someone feels that their symptoms are “serious enough” to
seek medical attention, it’s too late. All it takes to detect
walking pneumonia is a simple chest X-ray. The Health
Center znerely told me to come back in two weeks if my
fever didn’t go away.

Two weeks!? I would literally have died if Thad listened
to the Davidson College Health Center. Instead of receiving
treatment, I was misdiagnosed, told that my fever was noth-
ing, that I should rest during the weekend and try to get back
to class as soon as I could. Health was not an issue. The only
thing that mattered was that I remained healthy enough to
keep attending class.

It is wrong, though, to place blame solely on the Health
Center. The environment we Davidson students work in
makes us perpetuate a “stay healthy enough to keep going”

attitude.

We are all afraid we will lose our “spot.” We are afraid that
if we take too many days off, we will fall behind and never
recover.

Students keep moving no matter how sick they become,
mentally or physically. A culture of self-medication results.
Tylenol, caffeine pills, alcohol and drugs become the med-
ication of choice to get us through our difficult and trying
weeks.

We push on, going to class with little “bugs” in our sys-
tems or feeling a little “down” until it is too late. I guaran-
tee that if I had my fever during exam week, I would not
have consulted a physician, and this article would never have
been written.

Though pneumonia is a rare illness and my case is
extreme, the daily struggles of mental health do not seem to
be properly addressed by the Health Center.

A culture of self-medication
results. Tylenol, caffeine pills,
alcohol and drugs become the
medication of choice to get us

through our difficult and trying
weeks.

At the recent Changing Minds panel, a Health Center rep-

resentative said that Davidson students are not any more
stressed than the average college student. This statement
shows that we are not going to take care of ourselves.
Though some of it is our fault, I would venture to guess that
one of the reasons for not visiting is that it is difficult for us
to squeeze an hour in for a counseling session. We feel that
is not necessary because we can just press on through the
stress.

Students spend over $40,000 annually for the best care any
campus can provide. We are supposed to be treated as impor-
tant individuals.

Unfortunately, a trip to the Health Center almost cost me
my life and showed me how replaceable I can be.

For a school like Davidson College, which prides itself on
a sense of community and helpfulness, this feeling is unac-
ceptable.

David Dennis 08 is an English major from Jackson, MS.
Contact him at dadennis@davidson.edu.

NY Times provides inadequate coverage of heroes

Paul. R: Smith. Jason. L.
Dunham. Michael P. Murphy.
These men are insignificant to
many but have done the ultimate
for all.

If they had indiscriminately
discharged their weapons,
misidentified a target or gone too
far during terrorist interroga-
tions, they would have been as
famous as a Hollywood starlet.
Instead they rose above and
— -—n suai beyond their duties as soldiers

Bossy DesPaIN and became legitimate, real
world heroes. In recognition of their actions, they were
awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor (Murphy as
recently as Oct. 22).

When a soldier is alleged to have

killed a civilian, “The New York
Times” is quick to demand pun-
ishment.

Army Sergeant Smith, while outnumbered and under
heavy fire, died manning a .50 caliber machine gun, an act
that allowed wounded soldiers and their guards to safely fall
back. He left behind a wife and two kids.

Dunham, a Marine Corps corporal, dove on top of a
grenade to save fellow Marines. He was 22.

Murphy was a lieutenant in the Navy SEALs. He was the
commander of a four-man SEAL team operating behind
enemy lines in Afghanistan that was ambushed by over 100
terrorists. Under fire and wounded, he fought his way to a

clearing to make a call for reinforcements. He just managed
to relay the help call when a bullet sliced through his back
and out of his chest. Murphy kept fighting until enough ter-

¢ rorists’ bullets found their mark.

Murphy’s heroic act combined with his hometown boy
appeal would make one expect that an upstanding paper like
“The New York Times” would be ecstatic to cover his story.
Certainly the “Times” would feature his heroics on their
front page for days.

Most likely the paper would propose a fund for his fiancé
or for a military charity in his name. Instead, the “Times”
failed to address his heroics. Front page news neither salut-
ed the fallen soldier nor featured stories detailing Murphy’s
childhood and the making of a hero.

Nothing.

The sad truth is that the “Times” does not just ignore the
military —it delights in the misdeeds of our soldiers. It con-
tinually publishes stories of so-called American atrocities.
For weeks the newspaper ran stories concerning the contro-
versies surrounding Abu Graib.

When a soldier is alleged to have killed a civilian, “The
New York Times” is quick to demand punishment. Murphy’s
Medal of Honor was a chance for “The New York Times” to
do some good, but it did the opposite. Its silence is disre-
spectful of a man sacrificed his life to ensure Americans had
the freedom to print a newspaper. Lt. Michael Murphy is a
name that should be taught in schoos throughout the country.
People should grow up knowing that they have a future
because of men like him.

He is not a baseball, political or Hollywood hero but a
genuine h-e-r-o, hero. He fought and died so others could
live.

Bobby DesPain 11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
