THE DAVIDSONIAN

Field Hockey wins one of

three on Northeast road trip
By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team spent its
fall break in New Hampshire, winning one
out of three matches before the conference
tournament, which begins November 1.

The road trip began with a 3-1 loss to
-Dartmouth. Britti Himmelfarb ’09 scored in
the 10th minute to give the Wildcats an early
edge. However, first half goals by Katy Hagy
and Ashley Hines allowed the Big Green to
enter intermission with the lead. Allison
Weinstock scored an early second-half goal
to ice the game for Dartmouth.

Christa Goeke ’10 made seven saves for
the Wildcats, matching the total of her
Dartmouth counterpart Jordan Sedlacek.

The Wildcats were outshot 20-16 and were
on the short side of a 7-6 tally of penalty cor-
ners.

Davidson’s fortunes improved the follow-
ing day, though, as the Wildcats pulled out
their second overtime victory of the season,
claiming a 4-3 decision against Maine.

Eleanor Cowley ’08 scored the game-win-
ner on an unassisted goal after eight minutes
of overtime.

Catherine Ransone ’08 scored two quick
goals in the first half to give Davidson an
early edge. The Black Bears were able to tie
the game before halftime, getting their sec-
ond goal as time expired.

Maine held onto its momentum coming
out of the locker room, scoring the go-ahead
goal in the 52nd minute. Kayli Maxwell ’08,

The Wildcat Pulse

SPORTS

the team’s leading scorer, was able to tie the
game with her 12th goal of the year with
eight minutes to play.

Brittany Rollek ’09 played the first half in
goal for the Wildcats and recorded seven
saves. Goeke played the second half and
overtime, tallying eight saves. Maygan
Cassarino made five saves for Maine.

The Black Bears were unable to capitalize
on advantages of 20-11 in shots and 10-8 in
penalty comers. They dropped to 4-10 on the
season.

The Wildcat road trip ended two days later
with a 3-0 loss to New Hampshire. Shauna
Sellenger struck first against the Wildcats.
She was followed by Kara Napolitano’s and
Sam Geary’s goals.

Davidson managed only three shots

against New Hampshire’s 15 and faced a 12-.

3 disadvantage in penalty corners.

Goeke made 10 saves for Davidson, while
her counterpart Margaux Shute was only
forced to make one save. The decision
dropped Davidson to 8-7 and improved New
Hampshire to 8-8.

The Wildcats will host Appalachian State
on Wednesday and Radford on Saturday in a
pair of non-conference games to close out
the season. The Wildcats have beaten both
teams earlier this year.

Volleyball extends winning
streak to three games at home

By PATRICK DE VISSCHER
Staff Writer

The Wildcats hosted Western Carolina on

Online and LAN

Games and Tournaments -.

State of the Art PCs

Just a mile from Davidson College on 115 and Catawba

J

Internet Cafe

Home Made Pastries

19900 S. Main St. #2
Cornelius

704-895-8600

Your Second Home...

Open everyday

6:30 AM to 10:00 PM

Bring a friend and buy one coffee and the

second one is free with this coupon.

Buy one and get another one free of equal or lesser value

rom an Basket accomplished 749
page. 10. / very limited recruiting
E budget, Driesell knew that he had to travel ©
utside of the Southeast to find some of the’
‘nation’s. best. basketball players.. He. als

/ Main St. and encouraged students

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007 11

the coliseum and put up Davidson ‘signs

“Although - he: ea a.» around the concourse entrances to make the

~ Coliseum look like Davidson’s home arena. :
* Driesell even opened a pizza parlor’. on”

«knew that image was. everything, Snyder 2% 4

* remembered. that Driesell. would drive: to

_ regional airports around the country and get“ ’
the parents of his recruits to pick him up, ”
making the families believe that he had the «

« budget to fly around the country. Driesell’s |

_ recruiting creativity was unmatched ¢ even i
his own time," ‘

he Charlotte Coliseum for maximum expo-
ure; Driesell apparently would sneak int
Saturday and Chattanooga on Sunday in
Belk Arena, winning both games 3-1. With
these two weekend wins, the team extended
its winning streak to three games and
improved its record to 4-8 in the SoCon and
9-16 overall.

Katie Pierucci ’08 led the way with 24
kills against Western Carolina and 20 kills
against Chattanooga. Sarabeth Peele ’11 had
13 kills on Saturday and 14 on Sunday, while
Kittery Neale ’09 had 12 kills and 8 blocks
against WCU and 15 kills and 11 blocks
against Chattanooga.

Against WCU, Davidson built leads of 17-
13 and 26-22 during the first game.
However, the ’Cats were taken by surprise
when the Catamounts stormed back and won
the first game 30-28.

In the second game, the ’Cats established
a 20-12 margin. Pierucci’s two aces main-
tained Davidson’s eight point advantage.
Davidson seized the second game 30-21,

thanks to late kills by Peele and Hayley .

Lawson ’11.

During the third game, the Wildcats faced
an early 5-3 deficit. A Catamount hitting
error leveled the score at 6-6. Davidson
never looked back and won the game 30-25
to establish a 2-1 lead in the match.

The ’Cats again trailed 5-3 in game four.
Courtney Cron’s ’08 four straight service

_the Bulldogs’ hopes when he intercepted

A ‘Retherford’s. pass. with 27 seconds to go,’
_ sealing the victory and punctuating a great —
_ day for the Davidson defense, The ’Cats -

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
JD. UNC Law Scheol

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—~'07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past. president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

© Back. in Davidson, Driesell was able to.
schedule more and more home games at’

merit by selecting Davidson as their presea:
son number 1 pick, By the middle, of the
1960’s, Davidson basketball was a national :

‘This is the second piece in a four- part :
series on’; the? ‘100th _anniversa
Davidson basketbal
points turned the tide as Davidson took a 12-
9 lead. The Wildcats went on to win 30-20,
clinching the match 3-1.

On Sunday, the lead in the first game
changed swung back and forth. The efforts
of Tierney Hodge ’09, Pierucci and Neale
helped the ‘Cats win the first game 30-28.

Despite a 9-1 run to bring them within one
point, the Wildcats lost the second game 30-
28.

With the help of seven straight service
points by Cron, Davidson won the third
game 30-20.

Control in the fourth shifted ‘constantly,
but Peele’s late kills clinched the match 3-1
for a 30-28 win. ;

“Our win over Chattanooga is really a tes-
tament to team effort. We’ve known since
the first day of preseason that we were capa-
ble of being a contender in conference, but
we just hadn’t played like it until this week-
end,” Pierucci said.

The team travels to The Citadel next
Saturday and plays league-leading College
of Charleston on Sunday in the hopes of con-
tinuing the momentum.

“We have newfound confidence and opti-
mism going into our next conference match-
es, but realize that we’re going to have to
work very hard to earn every win,” Hodge
said.

‘catching 14 passes for 178’ yards. ©

The,’Cats, will travel to Indianapolis this:
weekend to take on Butler. They look to_
extend their winning streak and stay in the

hunt for the Pioneer Football League (PFL) :
Championship. ; :

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
B3—'85: 88" '97
Town of Davidson Commercial and

North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Execative Council 03 to present.

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Other Areas of Practice
Banks uptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate. Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

an
nto,
eh
LAW FIRM
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Deiburg Street, Suite 203
Davidsan, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

