THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Women’s soccer
takes home opener

By RYAN ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

This weekend, the women’s soccer team
played in two matches to open the 2007-
2008 soccer season. This will be coach Greg
Ashton’s 4th season as the head coach of the
team, and he hopes to have another success-
ful year. His last three years have meant
nothing but excellence for the team as the
Wildcats have not fallen below .500. Last
season was a milestone for the team with its
second-place finish in the SoCon, despite its
fifth-place preseason ranking. This season
looks to be another exciting and successful
one.

On Friday, the Lady Wildcats had a match
at North Carolina State where they fell 5-1 to
the Wolfpack. In the first 20 minutes,
Davidson did not even have a shot on the
goal. At the 38-minute mark, N.C. State
scored, putting them up on the Wildcats 1-0.
Shortly afterwards at the 41-minute mark,
Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 answered with her own
goal.

This goal and 12 saves by goalie Bevin
English ’08 would prove to not be enough
when at the 68 minute mark, Lindsey Vera
pulled off a hat trick (scoring three goals) in
five minutes. Vera would go on to score
another goal and lead the Wolfpack to a 5-1
victory over Davidson.

Although the Wildcats suffered a tough
defeat in their season opener, they came out
to win on Sunday against High Point in their

home opener. The game was scoreless for
the first 90 minutes. The Wildcats went on to
win in the first 5 minutes of the overtime
period when Lauren Conner 10 grabbed a
loose ball and scored into an open net to put
the Wildcats at 1-1 on the season.

Amanda Flink 711 set up the goal when
she kicked a low ball. High Point goalie
Abbot misplayed the ball leaving a clear net
for Conner to kick the ball in. Besides the
game winning goal, goalies from both sides
had numerous saves and proved to be effec-
tive defenders.

This week, the Wildcats travel to Colorado
to play Air Force on September 7 at 6:30
p.m. The team then play on Sunday against
Colorado College at 1 p.m.

Field Hockey season
opens with two wins

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The field hockey team began its season.

with three games in four days and so far has
looked none the worse for the wear.

In their first game against Catawba, the
Wildcats controlled the action early, taking a
4-1 lead and out-shooting the Indians 8-1 in
the first period, which ended prematurely
due to rain. Rescheduling arrangments are
pending.

Catherine Ransone 08 scored twice to
begin the game, followed by goals from
Ginnie Fridell ’08 and Lauren Calve °09,
who also recorded an assist. Britti Himelfarb
°09 tallied two assists, and Eleanor Cowley

°08 had another. Jill Archambault scored for
the Indians.

Davidson returned to the field two days
later to take on Christopher Newport and
claimed a 4-2 decision for their first win of
the season. It was the first win for interim
head coach Ginny Sutton.

Kayli Maxwell ’08 scored the Wildcats
first two goals before Diana Golden
answered for the Captains to make the score
2-1 at intermission. Cowley scored a second-
half goal that was quickly answered by
CNU. Courtney Tobe scored her first career
goal with 4:27 to play to provide the final
margin.Himelfarb recorded two assists and
Calve added another. Christa Goeke °10
posted 7 saves for Davidson.

The Wildcats finished off their busy week-
end by crushing Mercyhurst 10-1.
After being tied at 1 in the second period, the
Wildcats showed no mercy, reeling off nine
consecutive goals to quickly remove any
suspense the game may have held.

Maxwell and Sarah Addison ’09 recorded
hat tricks, Jen Willis ’08 scored twice and
Himelfarb and Cowley added goals in the
lopsided win, with Cowley, Himelfarb,
Willis, Ransome, Misty Stallings 08, and
Tyler Kirkland °09 tallying assists. Goeke
made three saves.

The Wildcats out-shot the Lakers 29-4 and
had a 17-4 edge in penalty corners.

The Wildcats will open conference play at
7 p.m. on Friday in Longwood, Virginia
against Stanford, followed by a3 p.m. game
Saturday against Longwood.

Volleyball stumbles in
opening tourney

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

After winning its first three games against

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2007 11

Radford, UNC Wilmington and James
Madison, the volleyball team lost its last two
games on the final days of the Wildcat
Mizuno Classic against High Point and
Uconn.

Despite the disappointing finish, one
bright stop was Sarabeth Peele °11, who
made the all-tournament team with 41 kills
over the three match event.

Lindsay Woeste ’08 started the morninig
game strong with eight straight service
points. Katie Pierucci "08 extended the lead
her fellow senior started, pushing the lead to
26-16. This score would prove insurmount-
able, as Peele finished the game with a kill,
30-17.

While there was some suspense in game
two with the Wildcats leading 19-16, High
Point charged back. The teams jockeyed for
position, but the Panthers ultimately took the
game 30-28. The next two games witnessed
tighter battles, but High Point proved to be
the better team that day, winning 30-20 and
30-22.

The Wildcats took the court determined to
fight against UConn. Two consecutive kills.
by Allison Dwyer ’09 brought the Wildcats
within one, and a Peele kill knotted the score
at 15. The score swung back and forth
between teams, but the Huskies ultimately
secured a game point by capitalizing on a
Wildcat error. While Pierucci allowed to
fend off game point temporarily, but the
Huskies took the next two points to secure
the win 32-30.

The second game remained competitive
until 18-18, but a remarkable 10-4 run by
UConn left the Wildcats reeling, opening the
door for their 30-25 win. The Huskies closed
the match with authority, dominating the
third game and securing a 30-18 victory.

The Wildcats will try to bounce back from
their lackluster finish against North Carolina
A&T on Friday and both Air Force and
Gardner-Webb on Saturday.

