SPE

14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By LAUREN BIGGERS
Assistant Sports Information Director

After registering arguably two of the pro-
gram’s biggest wins in recent history by tak-
ing down SEC powers LSU (3-0) and
Vanderbilt (2-1 in overtime) in back-to-back
contests in the College of Charleston
Tournament, the Wildcat women’s soccer
team opened the conference season with

wins over Appalachian State and The.

Citadel.

Last week’s Southern Conference Player
of the Week, forward Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10, of
Hanau, Germany, is a big reason for the
team’s recent success. Bye-Nagel scored a
pair of goals in Charleston, and after record-
ing a lone assist in her freshman season,
scored in three straight contests for the
Wildcat women leading to the SoCon sched-
ule in which she has continued her stellar
play.

In last Friday’s triumph over Vanderbilt,
Bye-Nagel scored five minutes into the sec-
ond half, putting away a cross from sopho-
more Lauren, Conner, to knot the score at 1-
1. The following day, she helped the Cats to
a 3-0 shutout of LSU for the program’s first-
ever win over the Tigers, one of only 12
teams undefeated to that point and in the
midst of a school-record tying 10-game
unbeaten streak. Bye-Nagel gathered the ball
just across the midfield line, beat three LSU
defenders and slipped a shot past Tiger
goalie Valerie Vogler for the team’s final

goal of the day.
_—

SPORTS
Coming to America: Kyri Bye-Nagel’s journey through D-I soccer

tle use.

“She initiated contact with us leading up to
her senior year,” assistant coach Winnie
Corrigan ’01 said. “Unfortunately, I was
unable to get to the events she participated
in, but I continued to keep in touch because
there was something interesting about her.
But, the scene in Europe for girls’ soccer is
so different from the club system here, so it
seemed that only by arriving here and plac-
ing herself amongst our team would it would
become apparent what she’d be able to do
for us.”

After receiving “glowing” letters of rec-
ommendation from Bye-Nagel’s coaches,
the Davidson coaches elected to take a
chance on her.

“T am reading her resume, full of unbeliev-
able honors across more sports (track, vol-
leyball, gymnastics, basketball) than any
domestic soccer star would ever have the
chance to participate in,” Corrigan said. “So
I thought to myself, this kid could be a true
diamond in the rough, and Davidson needs
that type of kid!”

Because Corrigan felt Bye-Nagel’s aca-
demic background had prepared her for the
rigors of Davidson and her athleticism was
unquestioned, she felt little risk in offering a
spot on the team and a chance to tackle the
collegiate game.

And though she had never seen the cam-
pus, met the coaches or played with any of
her teammates, Bye-Nagel accepted
Davidson’s offer. :

“I remember my mom and I came a couple
4 days before preseason and looked
around,” Bye-Nagel said. “And I was
like, this is great! I didn’t want any old
buildings; that’s something that I ruled
out. I like the brick; it’s nice. I remem-
ber coming into Baker and thinking, ‘I
: love this place. This is so cool. This is
Division I. This is what I wanted.”

“When her parents brought her to
campus for preseason last year, she had
a ‘deer caught in headlights’ look to her
about it all,” Corrigan said. “I think she
was awed at the beauty of the campus,
for one thing, but the best part was when
I took her down to our locker room at
the stadium. In it were new cleats, train-
ing gear, a backpack, running shoes, and
a Bye-Nagel nameplate above her lock-
er — she was stunned! It was like
Christmas in August for her.”

While she has certainly become one
of the team’s go-to players this season,
success for Bye-Nagel was not immedi-
ate.

“T was lost freshman season,” she said.

Bye-Nagel’s two goals led Davidson over LSU “I didn’t know what runs to make. I did-

and Vanderbilt.

At the time, LSU was ranked seventh in
the Central Regional poll by
soccerbuzz.com. A spark plug for the
Wildcat offense of late, Bye-Nagel netted
three goals during the team’s five-game win-
ning streak, but her story could have just as
easily been written differently.

With both of her parents working as teach-
ers for the U.S. military (her mom teaches
elementary school music, and her dad is a
kindergarten teacher), Bye-Nagel grew up in
Germany, playing high school and club soc-
cer — in addition to several other sports —
and dreaming of playing at the Division I
level.

“I wanted to play in college,” Bye-Nagel
said. “I wanted to do D-I to see if I could
handle it, but if I wasn’t going to do that, I
was going to try to play two D-III sports,
soccer and basketball.”

In hopes of securing a spot on a Division I
roster, Bye-Nagel came stateside to play in a
few different soccer camps, none of which
the Davidson coaching staff could attend. In
the absence of traditional recruiting avenues,
Bye-Nagel sent a DVD of herself playing
club soccer, but as the style and level of play
is so different overseas, the DVD was of lit-

n’t know what was going on. It seemed
like everyone else did, and that was really
hard.”

Bye-Nagel worked hard in the offseason
and took advantage of individual workouts
in the spring to gain a better understanding
of the ’Cats offensive schemes.

“Spring season helped me out because it
was more individual,” she said. “And so this
year, I definitely think I improved a lot, and
I’m ready.”

Agreeing with her assessment, the coach-
ing staff could not be more pleased with
Bye-Nagel’s off-season growth.

“Kyni’s overall development from last fall
has been unbelievable,” head coach Greg
Ashton said. “She arrived here as a sprinter
who played soccer but has turned into a
extremely fast soccer player who has the
ability to beat a defender and then show
great composure when she takes her shot at
goal.

“You cannot coach speed,” he continued,
“And she has plenty of that. She has added
strength to her talents in being able to hold
off a defender, and she can get herself into
dangerous positions and then accelerate past
defenders with skill. This improvement is
dramatic, and I was thrilled to see her get off

&

MESO RU:

Bye-Nagel was selected Southern Conference Piayer of the Week two weeks ago.

to a great start this season.”

After classes concluded in the spring, Bye-
Nagel returned home to Germany for the
summer, where she continued her upward
momentum despite being in an environment
not necessarily conducive to doing so.

When she returned in the fall for presea-
son, she placed first in the team’s sprint-
endurance test, proving to her teammates and
coaches that she came ready to play in 2007.

“Last fall was a lot for her to process, not
just in soccer,” Corrigan said. “The fall of
freshman year can be overwhelming for any-
one-and in Kyri’s case she was separated
from her family by the Atlantic Ocean! She
came a long way just in the spring, and
though J would not have imagined it would
translate so well this fall, she deserves all the
credit. She complements her physical attrib-
utes with a no-limits attitude; for a coach,
that is a rare and special combination in an
athlete.”

Since arriving at Davidson, Bye-Nagel has
successfully acclimated to life both on and
off the field. She has been studying sociolo-
gy and intends to continue to medical school
upon graduation. She has gotten involved in
other aspects of campus life, joining Connor
house and the Dance Ensemble.

“IT wasn’t part of a dance team in high
school, but that’s what we would do,” she

From Football. °° the clock. With

> the win the ’Cats
page 16 move to 3-1 on the
season and 1-0 in the

PFL.

“Any conference win, especially on the
road, is big for us. A win over Jacksonville
is a great way to start the conference sched-
ule.

Winning on the road without playing our
best football gives us a lot of confidence for

By SAM DIAMANT
From Fantasy ° Senior Staff Writer
page 13 fantasy betting —

and I stress betting,
because the players are making wagers on
the performance of individual players.
Performance incentives in contracts should
add up to significantly more than a fantasy-
prize.
Not to mention, in-game competitiveness
and general moral decency would likely
prevent performance corruption by fantasy
interests. In 2005, Redskins receiver Chris
Cooley scored three touchdowns in a
career-performance against Dallas. He later
commented that he was eliminated from the
playoffs in his fantasy league. An opposing
manager had Cooley on his fantasy squad,
so the real-life Cooley effectively defeated
himself. Obviously, in Cooley’s case, the
fantasy connection did not matter. But as a
fan, even the slightest implication that play-
ers would alter performance is unsettling.
Returning to the June example, assume that
this Sunday the Colts are beating the

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

proto POY
LAS

said. “We would go out and dance. Here peo-
ple don’t do that as much, so I kind of missed
dancing. I did all of the really ridiculous ones
last year, like hip hop, but this spring I want
to try something a little different, like salsa
or break dancing.”

Despite not knowing any of her teammates
beforehand and having her family an ocean
away, Bye-Nagel has found a sense of com-
munity in the women’s soccer program.

“She is a bit of a jokester and her team-
mates love her,” Corrigan said. “She brings
levity to the locker room with her hip-hop
dancing, a bold contrast to her soft-spoken
outward demeanor. They crack up when
Greg calls her a sneaky German (she is not
German), so that can be good for a laugh.”

“She is a really interesting person,”
Corrigan continued. “Having first of all had
the courage at 18 years old to go so far away
from her family and jump into something so
unknown, just because of this itch to see if
she could really play D-1 soccer.”

But she did and the coaching staff took a
shot. While the story is anything but tradi-
tional, it is certainly a good one ... and far
from over.

This article was originally published as a
feature on www.davidsonwildcats.com. It is
reprinted with the permission of the author.

the rest of season.

We feel like we can compete with anyone
on our schedule when we play well,” added
Alexander.

Next week, the team will host Morehead
State, who defeated Dayton 42-35 on
Saturday, in another crucial PFL match-up at
1 pm in Richardson Stadium.

The team will look to continue its victori-
ous run; it has won seven of its last nine dat-

ing back to last season.

Buccaneers by 30 points late in the fourth
quarter (a likely scenario). Now, assume
that the Colts are at the Tampa Bay one
yard line, and the Bucs are in a goal-line
formation looking to prevent a likely QB-
sneak. June lines up in the box, ready to
crash the middle. Can we expect him to put
forth full effort to keep Peyton out of the
end-zone? After all, the outcome of the real-
life game has been decided, and June has
his bragging rights among ESPN fantasy-
experts to think about. Right?

I’m not suggesting that June would let Peyton
walk into the end-zone. Quite honestly, I
don’t think he would. But just the thought
that this could be a consideration should be
troubling to all fans of the game. NFL players
are competitors. They are not going to adjust
their play due to unimportant fantasy inter-
ests. But when one competition stops in a
conceivable Colts/Bucs blowout, when does
another—June’s fantasy matchup—begin?
The answer isn’t clear. For this reason, the
NFL has a duty to regulate fantasy-sports par-
ticipation within the league.
