THE DAVIDSONIAN

Don t heart Huckabee

It seems like right about now,
everybody loves Mike Huckabee.
Once a third-tier nobody, running
alongside the likes of Duncan
Hunter, Ron Paul and Tom
Tancredo, Huckabee has emerged
in a big way. A bevy of articles in
major newspapers, silvery rhetoric
and an adamant base have pro-
pelled him to a commanding lead
in early polls for the Iowa Caucus.
Chuck Norris’s endorsement
* couldn’t have hurt, either. But
while his accolades have echoed
through internet chatrooms ‘and
church sanctuaries alike, Mike Huckabee is a dangerous
candidate, both for the GOP and for the country at large.

Even the least involved observers of the 2008 election can
tell you one thing about Mike Huckabee: he is an unabashed
and outspoken Christian. His campaign appeals to many of
the same conservative Christians who helped George W.
Bush win reelection in 2004. In his debates and speeches, he
rails against high taxes, talks tough on immigration and lets
everyone know exactly what kind of Christian he is. But let’s
not get our hopes up, American Right.

Huckabee began his career in the public eye in his home
state of Arkansas, rising from the same town (Hope) and
civic club that produced former President Bill Clinton. After
a brief stint in seminary, Huckabee kick-started a little
church in nearby Pine Bluff by broadcasting his sermons and
running a public-access Christian talk show. Soon people
made their way into his church, and he was on his way up.
From there, he moved on, preaching to bigger audiences
both from the pulpit and through the television screen.

In 1989, Huckabee was elected president of the Arkansas
Southern Baptist Convention and helped extend the revolu-
tion of conservative ideals that swept the South. after the
Reagan presidency. After a failed Senate run in 1992,
Huckabee rose to the position of Governor of Arkansas,
overseeing some of the populist initiatives, like healthcare
and education, that make him somewhat appealing today.

Now on the national stage, Huckabee is running a cam-
paign based in “the language of Zion.” The problem with his
candidacy is not that he’s a Christian but rather how (and
why) he’s using his faith. His campaign has demonstrated
two things that should alarm the Right.

It should not matter to
Republicans who loves Jesus
more or who worships in the right
way.

First, he has built his political campaign on religious posi-
tions. Throughout his time as a pastor and administrator,
Huckabee made it a point to televise himself and get his
message (and his name) out to a broader audience. He used
his popularity as a preacher with down-home roots to jump
into the Southern Baptist Convention and from there spring-
board to the Governor’s mansion. Rather than gaining a
flock, he built a reputation. Faith in the service of political
ends should seriously concern voters on either side.

Second, Huckabee’s rhetoric has turned the fight for the
Republican nomination—especially in lowa—into a contest
of who’s the better Christian. In his verbal spats with rival
(Mormon) candidate Mitt Romney, Huckubee has criticized
his opponentd beliefs as heretical and dangerous to the rest
of the nation. Romney, in return, has cloaked himself in the
memory of John F. Kennedy, the Catholic who fought
through what Huckabee views as similar hardships to win
the presidency.

But is this really about politics anymore? It, should not
matter to Republicans who loves Jesus more or who wor-
ships in the right way. What matters is who will make the
best President and guide the (secular) nation in the right
path. A Huckabee nomination puts the Republican Party in
danger of taking a sharp right tum away from mainstream
America, much in the way the Democrats veered left and
off-track in 2004.

Not only may the GOP lose the White House, but it may
also lose the faith of most of the moderates sitting on the
fringes of its “big tent.” A candidate who is more a Christian
opportunist than anything else is good neither for the nation
nor for American Christianity. Using religion as a political
tool is both a cynical statement about the nature and prefer-
ences of the electorate and a dangerous sign of things to
come.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Poltical Science and Music major from
Seminole, FL. Contact him at mapetit @ davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2007 9

Letters from abroa

Language barriers add to experience in Spain

ANNE STEVENS
Guest Columnist

I have been in Seville, Spain for almost a semester now
and am infatuated with the smells, colors, flamenco music
and mullet haircuts that characterize Andalusia’s most flam-
boyant city. I love Spain and rejoice in the fact that speaking
Spanish is becoming more habitual everyday. I now consid-
er myself highly conversational in Spanish, a stark contrast
to my first few days in Seville, which were filled with peri-
ods of hopeless confusion.

Just as the jet-lag was dissipating and I was beginning to
pick up the habit of the mid-day siesta, I received an email
from the Program Director seeking a student willing to tutor
English to a three-year-old Spanish child several times a
week. I don’t know what it was that compelled me, a quasi-
Spanish-speaking, totally lost and stuttering fool, to respond
to the message. I never really thought that I would have a job
during study abroad—but hey, why not?

The program director gave me the phone number of a man
named José, which is all the information I recieved. No last
name, no address, no affiliates and no background. So later
that day I sat down with a dictionary and wrote out several
very sophisticated phrases that I planned to recite when I
called him later, including: “My name is Anne. I would like
to be your child’s English tutor” and “I am from United
States of America,” as well as “I don’t understand you.”

Before making the call, I decided to go out for a cultural
experience of neighborhood tapas with my new roommate.
During the meal I got an unexpected call on my sweet pay-
as-you-go Spanish cell phone. José was calling and, without
my notes, I panicked.

José (in Spanish): Is this the student who is interested in
tutoring my daughter?

Me (in Spanish): Yes, is she, is she.

José: I would like to arrange a time when you can come to
our house. We will meet you and we will see if we are able
to agree upon a few times a week where you can come and
play with our Maria.

Me: Could you repeat that?

(José repeats, and Anne still doesn’t get it.)

José: Can I give you our address?

Me: Okay.

(But I had no paper to write anything down)

José: Okay, see you tomorrow at 4 in the afternoon. Call
if you have any problems.

Me: Okay, is well. I see myself later. | mean. See you in
the morning.

José: No, the afternoon

Me: Ohhh, right. The afternoon.

Sweating and anxious, IJ arrived at the apartment and nerv-
ously took a seat on the sofa while little Maria hid behind a
chair and stuck out her tongue at me. I thought, “Great. This
couldn’t be any more uncomfortable.” I had to ask them to
repeat everything and in the end, I had no idea how much I
had agreed to be compensated and was pretty sure that the
kid had more interest in brussel sprouts than in playing with
me in English.

The first few times that I came over it was as though
someone had set up a thick steel language barrier in the mid-
dle of the child’s room. She spoke very quickly in a high
pitched little kid’s voice and would get very frustrated at my
mistakes.

Once she yelled, in Spanish, to her nanny down the hall,
“The girl doesn’t understand anything!” I started bringing
my dictionary. We mostly spoke in Spanish, although I tried
to work in English words and phrases. It was weird how she
remembered certain completely random phrases I used and
was very interested in exclamations like, “Whoa!” and
“Cool!”

She also loved to learn commands. If it made me do some-
thing, she wanted to say it. “My name is Maria” was about
the hardest thing for her to remember, but incidentally “Get
back here,” “Go to sleep” and “I want a caramel please, were
very easy for her to spit back—for perhaps obvious reasons.

Working in her house, with her belongings and around her
mother and nanny truly enhanced my immersion into the
heart of Spain, where family is of huge importance. To be
invited into the home is a rare privilege in a country that nor-
mally keeps home life private.

The frustrating communication gap has led me to rely
more on other senses and given me an open mind to enjoy
Spain’s beauty and people.

Anne Stevens '09 is,a History major from Durham, N.C.
Contact her at apstevens @ davidson.edu.

Bush’s forecast for Iran incorrect, dangerous

Iran and its nuclear program,
only second to Iraq’s, have domi-
nated national security debates for
years, and for good reason.
Republicans, particularly in the
Bush administration, have been
full of dire warnings about the
Iranians. Neoconservatives
warned of the nuclear annihilation
of Israel and, in some cases, urged
- immediate war.

A few weeks ago, President
Bush told us that we face World
War III if the Iranians are allowed
to build a bomb. Even among liberals, myself includéd, there
was a consensus that the Iranians are building a nuclear
bomb and must be stopped if reasonably possible. Liberals,
though, are more worried about another ill-advised war than
about Iran’s weapons programs. This is why the National
Intelligence Estimate (NIE) findings, declassified last week,
have turned everything upside down.

the webster doctrine

With “very high confidence,” the
report states that the Iranians had a
weapons program but completely
stopped working on it in 2003.

The report represents the consensus of all 16 U.S. spy
agencies and, in short, says that everything described above
is rubbish. With “very high confidence,” the report states that
the Iranians had a weapons program but completely stopped
working on it in 2003. Since then, they have continued to
develop civilian nuclear power but have not resumed their
weapons program. Even if they did so today, the report found
that it would take Iran until 2015 or so to produce a working
bomb. Finally, the NIE found that the Iranians shut down the
program due to international pressure and worries about fur-

ther isolation. Shockingly, the report also turns out to be over
a year old. The various spy agencies cited verified these facts
and produced the report at that time.

However, Dick Cheney led a faction in the White House
that blocked its declassification—and continued to ratchet up
tensions with Iran, even after it became clear that Iran was-
n’t actually trying to produce a nuclear bomb. During that
time, Bush made his World War III remarks, and the Senate
passed the Kyl-Lieberman resolution that could have been
used to justify military action.

With the NIE public, Bush won’t
be able to leave a war with Iran
to his successor.

All of this underscores how lucky we are that this report is
now declassified. Although it didn’t reach the kind of con-
sensus represented by this NIE, the intelligence community
did have serious doubts about Iraq’s supposed WMDs but
failed to express those doubts effectively to Congress or the
public. Skeptics were marginalized and ignored throughout
the run-up to the war, so we invaded a country intending to
destroy nonexistent weapons with no clear of a next step.

Despite all we’ve seen in the past four years, the disaster
that Iraq has been hasn’t convinced the Dick Cheneys and
Rudy Giulianis of the world that preventative war isn’t the
solution to our problems in the Middle East. It is clear that
the right would prefer more confrontation with Iran—but,
this time around, sane voices have prevailed.

The reason for the report’s release is still unclear, but its
effect is not. With the NIE public, Bush won’t be able to
leave a war with Iran to his successor. Despite the many
spectacularly bad judgments and perverse worldviews that
remain in the Bush Administration, this NIE ensures that we
won’t have to endure another military disaster at the hands of
this president.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a Political Science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.
