n

12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 31, 2007

Maxwell sets record as Field Hockey ends season

rs at

Sports Information:

Kayli Maxwell 08 set the school record for career goals
with her 39th career goa! against Appalachian State.

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats field hockey team made indi-
vidual history last week, but the team also proved unable
to overcome its problems with consistency, losing to
Radford, a team it had beaten earlier in the year.

The week began with a 3-2 win over Appalachian
State. The night belonged to Kayli Maxwell ’08, who
became the school’s all-time leader in goals scored when
she gave her team a 3-0 lead in the 41st minute off an
assist by Eleanor Cowley ’08.

It was her 39th career goal. With the new record,
Maxwell becomes the Wildcats’ career leader in assists,
points and goals.

“I’m very excited about the record,” Maxwell said. “It
was a great game because every part of the team got to
see the ball. We also worked the ball up the field very
well.”

“Tt is a great honor for Kayli,” Head Coach Ginny
Sutton said. “I am extremely proud of her, and of the
entire senior class. They are really stepping up at the end
of the season and looking to finish out their careers on a
high note.”

In the fifth minute, Jen Willis °08 connected with
Catherine Ransone ’08 to give Davidson an early advan-
tage. Cowley then scored with three minutes remaining in
the first half off an assist from Ransone to put her team
up 2-0.

The Mountaineers launched a rally, with goals from
Alicia Larkins and Katie Pierce in the 51st and 61st

minute, respectively, but the Mountaineers could not spoil
the historic occasion for the Wildcats.

Appalachian was unable to capitalize on advantages of
15-12 in shots and 7-4 in penalty corners.

Christa Goeke ’10 had a strong performance in goal with
eight saves. Denise Adams made three saves for
Appalachian, which fell to 3-15 with the loss.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to summon the
same result on Saturday, falling to Radford 3-0 on Senior
Day.

“It is a great honor for Kayli..1
am extremely proud of her.”
Head coach Ginny Sutton

The Wildcats and Highlanders played a scoreless first
half before Megan Longtain scored in the 47th minute to
give Radford the lead. Allison Mowry scored on a penalty
stroke in the 61st minute and assisted on Longtain’s second
goal five minutes later.

Each team had 13 shots, but Radford owned a 10-5 edge
in penalty corners.

Goeke had six saves for the Wildcats. Stephanie
Wisniewski and Jennifer Wisniewski split halves for
Radford, making six and three saves, respectively.

The loss dropped Davidson to a regular season-ending 9-
8 record, Radford improved to 6-12.

Davidson will now travel to Stanford for the NorPac
tournament in Palo Alto, California Nov. 1-4.

Soccer extends unbeaten streak to four with OT win

BY SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Just a few weeks ago, after at 4-2 loss to UNC-Greensboro on
Oct. 9, it seemed that 2007 might be a lost season for men’s soc-
cer. The team, full of young talent but lacking in consistency, had
shown flashes of brilliant play against top teams such as
California-Berkeley and South Carolina. The Wildcats never put
a full 90 minutes together, though. Their season had been
plagued with critical mistakes at the most inopportune times.
Sitting at 2-11 after the Greensboro loss, 2007 figured to be a
frustrating campaign.

“When you are playing well, everything seems to go your
way...but when you are playing poorly nothing goes right,” Jon
Bassett ’08, who has anchored a strong Wildcat defense this sea-
son, said.

Now unbeaten in their last four contests, the tide appears to be
turning for the Wildcats. Things are looking up for Matt Spear’s
team. And their most recent victory, Saturday against SoCon
opponent Wofford, was the latest indication.

Davidson had a number of near misses in the first period. In
the 24th minute, Seth Kulaskera 711 beat a Wofford defender
with a hard left cut and played a bail to Robert O’Donnell ’10.
O’Donnell scored, but the goal was called back on an off-side
call. Forward Tom Lavan ‘08 also had a promising scoring
opportunity in the 32nd minute with a shot that missed wide-left.
The Wildcats controlled play throughout the half, but lapses late
into the period almost cost them. With less then five minutes
remaining, an unmarked Wofford forward missed a shot from
inside the 18-yard box. Then, with less than one minute remain-
ing, a dangerous pass-back into the box left a Wofford forward
one-on-one with Bassett, who was able to win the ball and safe-
ly clear it.

Wofford continued its offensive attack into the second period.
They scored in the 60th minute and threatened again a few min-
utes later.

Wofford was unable to add an insurance goal, though, as a

r =

wo

ES

Field Hockey

Terrier forward’s strike h
the right post after an open-
net opportunity.

After that  miscue
Davidson battled back o
offense. Alex Caskey 71
controlled the ball fro
mid-field, beating a numbe
of Wofford defender:
before playing a ball to
midfielder Charlie Reiter
”10 near the top of the box
Reiter’s shot was deflected fg
wide-right. a

Finally, the ’Cats netted }
the equalizer in the 77th
minute of regulation. Aaron
West ’08 curled in a long-
cross from the left side.
Lavan found the back of the

fea
¥
ae
Mi:

i=

net on a low shot first- Alumni Field hosted a capacity crowd to see the Wildcats defeat Wofford in over-

touch.

“Aaron did well to beat
his defender and whipped in a great cross,”
had to do was redirect it into the goal.”

time. over Parent’s Weekend.

The intended clear was mishit, finding the back of the

Lavan said. “All 1 net in an own-goal that ended the contest.

Only one conference opponent, College of

Player of the Week

Kayli Maxwell ‘o8

Kayli Maxwell ‘o8 ended the regular season by breaking the
school record for career goals with the 39th of her career.
She now holds the records for the most career goals, assists
and points in Davidson field hockey history.

Lavan nearly scored again at the end of regulation. Caskey
beat a number of defenders, and worked the ball left to near the
end-line. His cross was deflected into the net by Lavan, but the
officials ruled the play illegal.

“It was at an awkward height for me to finish it, so I had to
lean forward and the ball glanced off the top of my shoulder
into the side-netting,” Lavan said, “The referee called an inten-
tional hand ball on what I thought was a legal play.”

Lavan was penalized with a yellow-card for the intentional
hand-ball, and the game went into overtime. With 38 seconds
left in the first overtime period, a Wofford defender headed
West’s comer.

Hometown: Edmond, Oklahoma

conference.”

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Soccer wins on overtime own goal

Charleston, remains on the schedule for the last three
regular season games. A pair of tough non-conference
matchups against ACC teams Duke (at home, Oct. 31)
and undefeated national #1 Wake Forest (away, Nov. 6)
finish off the regular season. After the recent success
against conference opponents, the ’Cats looks to contin-
ue to build confidence going into the SoCon tourna-
ment.

“To continue getting results we just need to have guys
step up every night and make plays that change the
game,” Lavan said. “We aren’t afraid of anyone in this

With the score tied at 1-1, the Wildcats made a final drive to the goal with

under 15 seconds remaining. Tom Lavan ‘o8 punched the ball into the goal
but was called for a handball. Ten minutes later in overtime, Aaron West
‘o8 sent a corner into the box where a Terrier defender headed into his
own goal for the winner.
