4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ee ea .e 4

Philanthropy, from page 1

Smith Reynolds Foundation to give a local
perspective on philanthropy in the non-prof-
it sector.

The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation is a
North Carolina-based organization, the char-
ter of which only allows it to give money for
the benefit of North Carolinians.

When Ross became Executive Director,
the organization was based on reactive com-
munity-based grant-making.

Over the last 10 to 15 years, however, the
explosion of small family foundations has
eliminated the need for large general-pur-
pose foundations like Z. Smith Reynolds to
focus solely on grants.

“They were interested in shifting direction
and moving toward strategic philanthropy,”
Ross said. “We focused on changing public
policy.”

Ross gave the example of helping to create
legislation to protect abused women rather
than simply donating money to a cause sup-
porting them.

Although the Z. Smith Reynolds
Foundation did not completely stop grant-
making, it became involved in political
issues such as campaign finance reform,
lobby reform and limiting emissions out of
coal-fire power plants.

The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation has
also worked with the Kellogg Foundation to
support a North Carolina project to create
giving circles.

The project, called North Carolina Gives,
brings together groups of people who give
money and then decide which cause to sup-
port with their money.

The goal of this project, according to Ross,
is to “get out of the mindset of just tradition-
al foundational philanthropy.”

Ross said that a major problem concerning
non-profit organizations today results from
the refusal of many of these organizations to
— +

provide general operating support.

“The people in them [non-profit organiza-
tions] are there because they’re passionate
about an issue, not because they want to run
an. organization,” Ross said. “There’s not
enough training on how to be accountable to
your funders.”

Ogden also discussed the challenges fac-
ing non-profit organizations.

He works for Geneva Global, a philan-
thropic services firm that works with philan-
thropists to help them find the best place to
put their money.

Geneva Global is a for-profit organization
with a mission of social change and chang-
ing the way philanthropy operates.

“The essential challenge is that money
doesn’t go to places where it does the most
good,” Ogden said. “It doesn’t help the most
people.”

U.S. foundations hold $550 billion in
assets. Americans give away $300 billion
every year.

“We don’t really see the change that we
expect coming from that kind of money,”
Ogden said.

One problem that non-profit organizations
face is a leadership gap being created as staff
members who are baby boomers retire.
Ogden said that new ways of giving, such as
social networks and online giving, have not
increased the amount of money donated to
philanthropic organizations.

Individuals have consistently given away
2.2 percent of their income and corporations
one percent of their profits over the past 25
years.

According to Ogden, one challenge to the
reform of non-profit organizations is that
“giving creates very odd, often perverse,
incentives.”

Ogden gave the example of the welfare
queens from the ’90s who continued to have
more children in order to get more money
from the government.

N

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007

Pres. Tom Ross, Professor Menkhaus and Tim Ogden ’95 made up Monday’s panel.

Ogden also described a conflict between
the goal of effecting change and an individ-
ual’s desire to donate to an organization with
which he or she feels a personal connection.

“At its core, philanthropy is expressive,
not instrumental,” Ogden said.
“Philanthropy is about expressing the values
of givers, not about getting something done.”

According to Ogden, the message present-
ed by these challenges is that “we’ve got to
start trying new things,” such as for-profit
models and social capital markets.

These models take the best parts of mar-
kets and apply them to the social sector so
that money flows to the places where it can
do the most good.

After the panelists presented these trends
and challenges, students had the chance to
ask questions. Maggie Wilson °08 asked
Ogden about the vacant leadership positions
within non-profit organizations.

“TI was wondering if you saw any potential
benefits in that, such as for college students
looking to hold leadership positions in these

undergraduate majors

Steer Your Future Toward Success

a FIVE DYNAMIC CONCENTRATIONS
: Entrepreneurship, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing

= MBA LEVEL INTERNSHIPS
Students have interned with companies such as Walt Disney World Corporation,
Lockheed Martin, Seimens Power Generation, and Merrill Lynch

. GLOBAL. STUDY TRIPS ~
Opportunities to study and work on valuable projects for leading
: companies both internationally and domestically

. AND... Curriculum designed to fit ALL

5) ROLLINS MBA

CRUMMER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

organizations.” Wilson said.

Ogden acknowledged that there was an
opportunity for younger people to take lead-
ership roles but cautioned students against
immediately taking jobs in the non-profit
sector.

“Take a long-term view,’ Ogden said.
“Spend five years acquiring useful skills in
the for-profit sector, and then if you are feel-
ing that the right thing to do is to go into the
non-profit sector you'll have the useful
skills.”

Anders Gustafson ’08, who introduced the
panelists, said that they were excited by the
high student turnout and interest in the topic.

“T think most kids left the discussion with
a sense of guarded optimism,” Gustafson
said. “Non-profits could be improved, but
there exists a drive amongst professionals in
the field to lead this change. Judging by
some of the questions asked, it even seemed
like many of the students were considering
how they could fit into this process of
change themselves.”

arket Research Analy
Rnpass Knowledoaad

Begin charting your
own course today
by contacting

Linda Puritz at
lpuritz@rollins.edu
or 800-866-2405,
ext.1.
