iy,

EZ

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007 10

“Accordingly, they make stupid decisions

: by. overpaying millions for washed up.
baseball players who can’t deliver during -

. the season. Consequently, this is also the:

time when my mind gets away from basex
ball until spring training. This year, how:
_ever, the MLB’s offseason looks exciting:

because’ I, want’.to see< where.’ Alex”

jRodtigne?, baseball's best player, will end.

shown that he cannot make the big hit in ¢
clutch situation? For a guy who often fc
gets | how. to swing the bat’ when the po:

tion player in the game today. At the ; age o
03, che already has over 2,200. hits, 1500
_RBI and 518 home runs/He is 4 model o :
onsistency, hitting 35’ home runs in 10°

stolen bases over the last five. - years.
has a lifetime 306 batting average: He has
_two gold gloves along with his two (soon
to be. three). MVP’s.“At his career’s end,
: “not only will he probably be the all-time’
shome run king, but he will be the most.
prolific offensive player to ever play the:
» game of baseball. But $350 million?
© Ym sorry, MLB purists, but this is bad”
ifor, baseball, The Alex. Rodriguez’s free
"agency carousel is just a microcosm of
what is happening all around the league.
‘Because no hard salary cap exists, large
market teams are giving overrated players
outragous -contracts..$121. million for
Barry Zito over seven years?: $100 million
a year for Ichiro? $28 million to > Roger
Cl mens for FOUR MONTHS! |
\ few. years ago, when. the “Yankees
were attempting to build an All-Star team
_in the Bronx, debate began over whether |
-or not Yankees overspending hurt the com-
petitive balance of baseball. Opponents.
pointed to the fact that many small market.
teams, like the Florida Marlins, could have
. success making the playoffs and even win-
ning a World Series. But when it came
-time to measure steady success, you'd be
hard pressed to find small market teams.
_ with. constant. success. Why? Because.
“great players are being bought up with
_ insanely lucrative deals that small market.
teams have no chance to match, Until the:
“MLB addresses this issue, ‘small market.
steams. will rise and fall as. quickly ” as
_Carolina Panthers expectations.

Volleyball
(12-19, 7-11)

(1-0)

11/9 at App. State, Won 3-2
11/11 vs. Georgia Southern,
Won 3-1

Next up:
Next up:
11/16 at App. State

Notes:
The volleyball team enters the
SoCon Tournament on a two-
game winning streak

Notes:

straight seasons. He’s also. had over: 100.

Men’s B-ball Women’s Soccer

11/9 vs. Emory, Won 120-56

11/14 vs. UNC Chapel Hill
11/21 at Western Michigan
11/24 at North Carolina Central

Stephen Curry ’10 scored a
game-high 27 points in the
120-56 route against Emory.

By SaM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team faced-off
against strong ACC opponent Georgia Tech
in the season opener for both squads, Friday
in Atlanta. The Wildcat’s lost the contest 69-
50, after hanging with Tech through much
of the first half.

A 12-4 Davidson run at the end of the first
half allowed the ’Cats to close the deficit to
nine at the break. But Davidson went cold
from the floor in the second period, and the
Yellow Jackets were able to build a secure
lead. Tech opened the half with a 15-4 run of
its own, and Davidson could not counter.

The tale of two halves is statistically stag-
gering. While the Wildcats shot 55 percent in
the first half, they only shot 25 percent in the
second stanza due to a much stronger defen-
sive performance by the Yellow Jackets.

“We were five for 20 and it is so mentally
draining to work hard on defense and contin-
ue to miss shots,” Coach Annette Watts said
of the poor second-half shooting perform-
ance..

On a positive note, the team adjusted well
to Georgia Tech’s full-court press, commit-
ting fewer turnovers after the intermission.
They committed 31 total, with 18 turnovers
occurring in the first-half. However, the
young Davidson squad still needs to work on
taking better care of the basketball.

“Unforced turnovers are a major concern
at the present and we are working daily to
improve in that area,” Watts said.

Georgia Tech went 21-12 in 2006-2007
and returned four starters. Davidson,
between unforced errors and poor second-

Mercedes Robinson "10 was held to five
points in the loss to Georgia Tech.

half shooting, could not hang with the talent-
ed Yellow Jackets.

“We will not play many teams with the
speed and athleticism that Tech possessed,”
Watts said.

Forward Julia Paquette °10 led Davidson
scorers with 15 points, shooting 6-8 from the
floor and 3-3 from the line in only her second
career start for the Wildcats.

“Julia Paquette has played well from day
one this season,” Watts noted. “She worked
hard this summer and she understands this
team needs her to be successful.”

Alex Thompson ’10 made her first colle-
giate start at point-guard for the Wildcats,
netting two three-pointers, her only attempts
from the field, while adding four assists and
two steals. Coming off the bench in her first
NCAA contest, Kelsey Cary provided a lift

for the "Cats on offense scoring 12 and
adding seven boards. Watts noted that all
scoring and rebounding leaders were fresh-
men and sophomores. In this way, the 2007-
2008 Wildcats appear to be living up to their
billing as a young but talented team.

The team will compete in its first tourna-
ment of the season this weekend, the four-
team Carolina First Classic at UNC-
Asheville. Davidson plays Asheville on
Friday night, then either the championship
game or a consolation match on Saturday.
Georgia State and Gardner Webb are the two
other teams competing in the tournament.
UNC-Asheville received its first ever bid to
the NCAA Tournament last year, after win-
ning the Big South conference tournament.

“They are always tough and playing them
at their place is a challenge for any team,”
Watts said.

“To keep playing hard, against
all odds, is something this team
is learning how to do.”

-Coach Annette Watts

Looking forward, Davidson can some pos-
itives away from the Georgia Tech loss.
Tough non-conference match-ups against
major programs should help the young ’Cats
progress and quickly to identify strengths
and weaknesses. Overcoming the team’s
lack of experience seems a main obstacle.

“To keep playing hard, against all odds, is
something this team is learning how to do,”
Watts said, “When the SoCon season rolls
around games such as this will certainly help
us.”

Playoff runs end for soccer squads

By WILL BRYAN AND PATRICK MCARDLE
Sports Editors

Sometimes fairy tale endings end up being
just that, fairy tales. The women’s soccer
team’s remarkable 2007 campaign came to
an abrupt end on Friday night when
Furman’s Rachel Fry headed in a loose ball
from the penalty box in the second overtime
of the Southern Conference Tournament
semifinals.

Davidson had defeated Furman by a score
of 1-0 earlier in the conference season, but
the Wildcats were unable to get on the score-
board and lost 1-0 to the eventual champions
of the SoCon Tournament.

The ’Cats certainly had their chances to_

put the match away in regulation. Kyri Bye-
Nagel *10 had several excellent opportuni-
ties to score but she missed on all counts.
The first two came in the second half when
her header off a Nancy Haskell 08 corner
kick went wide. Just four minutes later, Bye-
Nagel had another excellent opportunity, but
her shot on goal went high and deflected off

(12-4-1, 7-1-1)

11/9 vs. Furman, Lost 0-1

Notes:

Bevin English 08 and Kyri
Bye-Nagel ’08 both earned
spots on the SoCon All-
Tournament Team for the stel-
lar performances that propelled
the ’Cats to the tournament
semi-finals.

Men/’s Soccer
(4-14-1, 2-3-1)

11/10 vs. UNCG, Loss 0-1

Notes:
Senior defender Robby Hoak
was named to the SoCon’s All-
Conference Second Team.

the crossbar.

The best and final Davidson opportunity
came in the second overtime when Bye-
Nagel found herself in a one-on-one situa-
tion with the Furman goalie. Bye-Nagel,
who was voted All-SoCon first team earlier
in the week, struck her shot directly at the
Paladin keeper, Briana da Mota, who was
able to make the game-saving stop. Mota
made 10 saves to stifle the Wildcat offense.

The Paladins game-winning goal came as
time ticked down in the second overtime and
the game seemed to be heading to penalty
kicks. Furman kicked a cross into the box
with 10 seconds remaining and both teams
scrummed for the loose ball in front of the
goal. As the ball popped up in the air, Fry
was able to connect with her head and send
it to the corner of the goal with a mere 2.2
seconds remaining on the clock.

Fry was named Most Outstanding Player
in the Tournament after leading Furman over
UNC Greensboro in the tournament champi-
onship.

The game was the last contest for seniors

Haskell, Bevin English ’08 and Kristen
Koehrn ’08. Haskell had been honored with
All-SoCon first team honors, while English
and Suzanne Sittko ’10 were selected to the
second team.

English set a school single-season and per-
sonal-best record with 10 shutouts this year.
In addition, English set career bests in wins
with 13, saves with 86, minutes played with
1,766:59 and goals allowed with 16.

The senior trio of Haskell, English and
Koehrn finish their careers -as the all-time
winningest class in women’s soccer history
with an overall record of 51-26-6.

Similarly, the men’s soccer team ended its
season with a 1-0 loss to UNCG on Saturday,
ending a tough season where the team fin-
ished with a record of 4-14-1.

Thomas Campbell of UNCG, who record-
ed a hat-trick in the last meeting between the
two teams, scored the game’s only goal at the
24 minute mark.

Although the seniors will be moving on,
next season begins now for both teams, and
hopes are high.

Cross Country Women’s B-ball Swimming
; (0-1) Women (3-3)
Men’s Men (1-4)
33:11.50 - Tom Divinnie
33:27.65 - Alex Hoyt 11/9 at GA Tech, Loss 50-69
33:28.10 - Thad Sieracki Next up:
33:32.75 - Sam Morris Next up: P

11/16 at UNC Asheville
11/17 at Carolina Classic
11/24 at Charlotte

Women’s
21:20.90 - Caroline Sanker
22:15.65 - Megal Atias
22:31 .60 - Annie O'Donnell

with 15 points in her second
career start as a Wildcat in the
loss to Georgia Tech on Friday.

11/16 Davidson Invitational
11/29 at Kenyon College

Notes: Notes:

Julia Paquette ’10 led Davidson Merritt Peele °09 won 100, 200

and 1000 freestyle events to
lead the Wildcat men to their
first team victory of the season.
