4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Staley, Jrom page 3

He challenged communities to practice
radical hospitality.

“Church is about picking people up, dust-
ing them off and kissing their bruised knees
before sending them out into the world to try
it again,” he said.

Ufford-Chase concluded by offering some
practical advice for movement building.

He spoke extensively about community-
based organizations that achieve change by
promoting the principles underlying their
communities.

“Church is about picking people
up, dusting them off and kissing
their bruised knees before sending
them out into the world to try it
again.”
--Rick Ufford-Chase,
Staley lecturer

Drawing from the wisdom of Quaker and
rancher Jim Corbit, Ufford-Chase outlined
criteria for healthy community-based organ-
izations, emphasizing the need for such
organizations to be volunteer-based and ger-
mane to those on the margins of society.

He cautioned against the growing tenden-
cy to rely on volunteerism as a livelihood
and decried the fact that some American
ministers make up to $200,000 per year.

“We’ve overdeveloped the idea of making
a living out of helping people,” he said.

Ending on a positive note, he emphasized
again the importance of community.

“Individuals can exist in justice,” Ufford-
Chase said, “but it takes communities to do
justice.”

Ufford-Chase is a co-founder of
Borderlinks, an organization that works with
migrants on the US-Mexico border.
we

Sail into the sunset with Sea Expedition Association

By Tim COHEN
Staff Writer

A relatively unknown study abroad pro-
gram called SEA held an information session
in the College Union last Thursday.

The SEA Semester Program is a 12-week
program, sponsored by the National Science
Foundation.

The program encompasses a six-week stay
on Cape Cod in Woods Hole, Massachusetts
and a six-week sailing tour in either the
Atlantic or Pacific Ocean.

The SEA Semester Program offers six ses-
sions per year for undergraduate college stu-
dents, high school students and adults.

SEA takes a different approach from other
“semesters at sea,” which focus on the vari-
ous ports of call, by devoting all of its atten-
tion to the ocean.

The program offers courses in oceanogra-
phy, nautical science and maritime studies,
and professors with doctorates in nautical
engineering, oceanography and history teach
the courses.

In the oceanography courses, students
concentrate on the biological, chemical and
geological elements of the seas.

During the nautical science classes, stu-
dents study meteorology, ship handling,
celestial navigation, coastal piloting and ship
construction.

Most of the oceanography and nautical
science classes are taught during the stu-
dents’ time at sea. The Maritime studies
classes, most of which are held during the
six-week land portion, discuss the history,
literature and culture of the ocean.

During the first six weeks, students stay at
the SEA Semester Program campus, .where
they reside in 10-person houses, learning
how to live in close proximity with their
future crewmates.

While on land, students attend seminars
and guest lectures at the Woods Hole campus
and other research facilities on Cape Cod.

Most importantly, students learn theories
‘of sailing and navigation that prepare them
for their voyage.

After the first six weeks, the program
splits between the Pacific and Atlantic expe-
ditions.

The Pacific voyage travels to such places
as Puerto Vallerta, Tahiti, Hawaii and
Alaska.

The Atlantic cruise travels to the
Caribbean Sea, visiting the Dominican
Republic, Jamaica and the Florida Keys.

Each of the sea cruises take place on 134
ft. Brigantine sailing vessels owned by SEA.
The vessels, equipped with a vast array of
research equipment, are the most advanced
oceanographic sailing vessels in the world.

Assistant Dean of Admissions of the SEA
Program Peter Petrone describes the voyage

: Moni : = at %oh :
Students who study abroad at sea travel for six weeks on boats like this one.

as a “21st century learning platform...with a
19th century sailing experience.”

Kyle Sherman ’08 attended the program
last fall, calling it the “best thing [he] has
ever done in [his] college career.”

Sherman, a biology major, explained the
SEA semester reminded him a lot of
Davidson and that he believes it would be
the perfect place for Davidson students.
While the oceanographic research fascinated
him the most, he believes the program would
interest students from all majors.

Many of his peers on the program were
creative writing, economics and political sci-
ence majors.

Perhaps most importantly, Sherman
emphasized the unique and lasting friend-
ships that he made during the trip and stated
that his group is planning a reunion for next
summer.

For further information about the program,
access their website at www.sea.edu.

courtesy: phota

THE DEGREE YOU NEED
FOR THE JOB YOU WANT.

mi

UNIVERSIT~

—

*
