12

BYWILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

As the fall sports wrap up their regular seasons and cele-
brate the achievements of their departing senior classes, fans
are given a chance to reflect on the ways that each program
has changed over the last four years. It doesn’t take long to
pinpoint one of the more special senior classes in Davidson
sports in recent memory.

Kristen Koehrn ’08, Nancy Haskell ’08 and Bevin English
08 will graduate as the winningest class in Davidson
women’s soccer history with a current four-year record of 51-
25-6.

This year, English has set new school records for shutouts
in a season and a career. She looks to finish her career as the
all-time leader in goals against average.

Haskell has played a large part in the Wildcats’ success
over the last four years. Haskell was selected to the Soccer
Buzz National Elite Feet Team of the Week back in
September and was tabbed for the CoSIDA Academic All-
District third team for her junior and senior seasons.

Back in her freshman year, Koehrn capped off one of the
Wildcats’ most thrilling postseason victories as she netted an
overtime goal to beat UNC-Greensboro in the semifinals of
the Southern Conference Tournament. Koehrn has tallied 16
career goals and 12 career assists.

In their final Wildcat season, the three seniors have helped
lead Davidson to one of its most successful season records to
date. Davidson won last Thursday’s regular season finale
against Georgia Southern 2-0. The Wildcats then advanced to
the semifinals of the SoCon Tournament by defeating

Bevin English 08 and Nancy Haskell ’08 have led the
Wildcat defense all season long.
Wofford 2-1 on Sunday.

The Wildcat scoring came midway through the first half
when Amanda Flink *11 pushed a through ball forward
towards the goal. Blakely Low °10 raced out in front of the
Eagles defenders and collécted the ball directly in front of the
goal. Set up with a one-on-one opportunity with the goalie,
Low fired a shot to the near post to give the Wildcats the lead.

Suzanne Sittko ’10 knocked in an insurance goal for the
Cats in the second half. A pass from Lam set up the goal.
With the goal and assist, Low now has 14 poirits on the sea-
son.

On the game, the Cats only allowed five total shots by

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Me

Georgia Southern while managing 19 of their own.

With the regular-season-finale victory, the Wildcats
secured the two-seed heading into the weekend’s quarterfi-
nal round of the Southern Conference Tournament. The
’Cats hosted Wofford in Sunday’s afternoon match.
Although the Terriers finished seventh in the conference,
they had played Davidson to a 0-0 tie earlier in the season.

The Wildcats wasted no time getting on the scoreboard in
this rematch when Lauren Conner ’10 played a through ball
to a streaking Low. Low put the ball in the corner of the net
to give the ’Cats an early 1-0 lead. ©

The ’Cats continued the offensive intensity to the 24:37
mark when Allison Drutchas ’11 fed a pass to the far side of
the 18-yard box to Kyri Bye-Nagel °10. Bye-Nagel quickly
turned and dropped a shot into the net over the outstretched
arms of the goalkeeper.

Although it seemed as if Davidson would easily advance
to the semifinals, Wofford’s Kendra Merchant fired off a
shot in the 75th minute that deflected past English into
Davidson’s goal, cutting the Wildcat lead to 2-1.

Davidson handled the clock management very well, how-
ever, and the Terriers could not muster any more attacks.

With her game-winning goal, Bye-Nagel now owns the
most goals on Davidson’s team with !2 and ranks second in
the conference overall.

The Wildcats will take on Furman in Friday’s tournament
semifinal nightcap at 7 p.m. Davidson will host the 2007
Tournament semifinals and finals.

Although the Conference office will be charging admis-
sion, head coach Greg Ashton has promised to pay for the
first 50 students who arrive at the gate with valid ID’s.

Football nearly pulls West Coast upset at USD

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Davidson come up just short in its attempt to end San
Diego’s 23-game home winning streak on Saturday after-
noon, falling to the Toreros 52-49 despite huge games from
the senior trio of quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08 and wide
receivers Ryan Hubbard ’08 and Beaux Jones ’08.

San Diego opened the scoring in the first quarter with a 7-
yard touchdown pass from Josh Johnson to John Matthews
that gave USD a 7-0 lead. It was the beginning of an amaz-
ing performance for the Toreros’ Johnson who finished
Saturday with 31 of 35 passing for 416 yards and five
touchdowns. Alexander, however, did his best to match
Johnson’s performance.

The Wildcats evened the score at 7-7 on the ensuing pos-
session when Alexander hooked up with Hubbard on a 30-
yard touchdown pass. The Alexander-Hubbard connection
was a recurring theme on the afternoon as Hubbard had his
fourth straight 100-yard receiving game, finishing the after-
noon with 11 catches for 158 yards and two scores.
Alexander continued his assault on the Davidson record
books by setting a new school record with six touchdown
passes. He threw for 404 yards and no interceptions.

The Toreros regained the lead on their next possession
with another touchdown pass from Johnson to Matthews.
The first quarter ended with USD leading 14-7, but the
*Cats knotted the score at 14-14 early in the second when
running back Justin Williams ’11 plunged into the end zone
from two yards out.

Mathews and Johnson hooked up for the third time in the
half, this time on a 36-yard score to put the Toreros ahead
21-14, JT Rogan’s 12-yard touchdown run following a
Davidson punt extended the USD lead to 28-14. The ’Cats

is fear mia thorn
’Cats, Beaux Jones
08 is second on the team with 536 yards and 5 TD’s

did cut into the lead just before half time when Williams found
the end zone for a second time, on a six yard pass from
Alexander. Cody Elder 08 converted the extra point and the
Wildcats went into the half trailing just 28-21.

USD opened the second half with a 10-play, 59-yard drive
that resulted in a Rogan one yard touchdown. Davidson’s
ensuing drive stalled, and the ’Cats were forced to punt the
ball back to the Toreros, who took advantage of the Cats
missed opportunity to cut into the lead. Johnson directed San

another Johnson touchdown pass to push the home lead to 42-
21.

Trailing by three touchdowns late in the third quarter to a
San Diego team that has won the past two PFL champi-
onships appeared to be a daunting task, but the Wildcats bat-
tled valiantly. Alexander connected with Jones on a 14-yard
touchdown strike with 25 seconds left in the third to cut the
lead to a manageable two touchdowns.

Jones had 8 catches for 115 yards and a pair of scores on
the afternoon.

Early in the fourth quarter, Davidson pulled within 42-35
when Alexander found Hubbard in the end zone for a 21-yard
touchdown, but thé Toreros responded with a Hutch Parker
29-yard field goal to take a 45-35 advantage with 7:21 to
play. The ’Cats continued their relentless comeback with
another touchdown from Alexander to Jones at the 3:53 mark
to cut the lead to three at 45-42.

Elder’s onside kick attempt was recovered by USD and
returned to the Davidson 30. Three plays later, the Johnson-
to-Matthews show continued as the duo hooked up for their
fourth touchdown of the game. Matthews finished the after-
noon with 11 receptions for 190 yards and four touchdowns.

The Wildcats faced a 10-point deficit with 2:25 remaining,
but the team refused to quit. Alexander led an eight-play, 77-
yard drive that resulted in Williams’ third touchdown of the
game on a three-yard touchdown catch. It was Williams’ sev-
enth touchdown in the last two games. More importantly, it
cut the Toreros’ lead to 52-49 with 1:00 to go.

Elder’s second onside attempt was again recovered by San
Diego, thus sealing the victory for the Toreros who extended
their home winning streak to 24. The ’Cats will look to
rebound from the heartbreaking 52-49 loss next week when
the team return to action at home against Valparaiso on Senior

- Diego on a six-play drive that covered 93 yards and ended in

“Player of the

Ryan Alexander ‘o8

Football

Hometown: Lynchburg, Virginia

Ryan Alexander ‘o8 set a school record by throwing six touch-
downs to complement 4.04 yards passing against powerhouse
San Diego in Saturday’s close 49-52 loss.

Neek

Day. Kickoff is set for noon in Richardson Stadium.

Zz

SRE ERER orc 2 1s EERE EESEROSET?

Field d Hockey nets first st playott victory in seven years

With goals by Catherine Ransone ‘o8 and Kayli Maxwell ‘08, the
Wildcat field hockey team defeated Longwood 4-2 in the first round of
the NorPac tournament. The win was the team’s first playoff victory
since 2000, when the ‘Cats defeated Pacific 3-1.
