. ART

The Davidsonian
Wednesday,
OCT 3, 2007

Pep band shakes the floor with Wildcat spirit

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

With basketball season still a few weeks
away, many students already anxiously await
the opening game against Lenoir-Rhyne on
Nov 7. Everyone seems to be looking for-
ward to hooting and hollering for their
Wildcats, but a certain group of students will
support the team by riling those folks up
even more.

Davidon’s pep band is a motley crew of
folks who are passionate about getting peo-
ple out of their seats.

“The band can be found at all of
the men and women’s home
gamews, although they will get to
travel if the teams advance to
SoCon or NCAA tournaments.”

Director Ken Davis, who is also a full-
time director of the Mooresville High School
Band leads the pep band.

Most of the pep band members played in
their high school bands, although there are a
few new members who are playing new
instruments for the first time.

Usually, the band doesn’t have too many
chances to play together at the beginning of
the school year, but meets for a few
rehearsals before the season kicks off.

Practicing has to be fun, though, because
the band’s repertoire includes such fan

favorites as “Wild Thing,” “Hey Ya” and
“Bor to Be Wild!”

The band can be found at all of the men
and women’s home games, although they
will get to travel if the teams advance to the
SoCon or NCAA Tournaments.

Nick Jennison, ’11 joined the pep band at
the activities fair.

He played flute in his high school’s pep
and jazz bands and says that he is fond of the
“good girl to guy ratio” that the flute section
offers Him.

When asked about the perks of being a
member, Nick notes that “there are only two
to four rehearsals, then you get a free T-shirt
and free pizza and tickets to any and every
game.

It’s so fun, and J haven’t even done any-
thing yet. That’s real fun.”

Nick also says that he can’t wait until he
gets to learn how to play the Davidson Fight
Song.

Another new member to the pep band is
Cara Woodroof ’10 who plays the flute and
the piccolo. She decided to join this year
because she has really enjoyed playing in a
symphonic band in the past, and there’s
something special about “being a part of a
group that is creating something for every-
one to enjoy. I think that being in the
Davidson pep band should be a similar expe-
rience.”

Through attending many sporting events
last year, Woodroof believes that music can
have a powerful effect on the members of the
crowd.

“T think the music adds to the experience
of the basketball games. The game and the
music combined draw the spectators togeth-
er,” she said.

Although the band does not have formal
officers, Lisa Klein ‘09 serves as a student
coordinator, organizing meetings and help-
ing Davis with recruitment. Lisa picked up
the trumpet in the fourth grade, and her
favorite tune to play is “Hey Baby” because
of the large amount of crowd interaction it

courtesy photo
The pep band hopes to turn students int 0 the wild, screaming fans we love.

elicits.

About 20 eager musicians attended the
first informational meeting earlier this year.
This is one of the larger groups the band has
seen in recent years, so the Davidson com-
munity can expect some great music in
upcoming games.

The stands of Belk Arena will rock this
year, and hopefully all that positive energy
will inspire both the fans and the basketball
teams.

Cozy 300 East serves up eclectic food

By CAROLINE Woop
Staff Writer

The next time you’re set on enjoying a fine
meal, consider skipping the pressed white

tablecloths and blinding silverware of the —

usual steak and seafood restaurant and opt-
ing for something more unique instead.
Whether you have a performance to attend, a
special occasion to celebrate or antsy parents
to entertain for the weekend, 300 East offers
you some of the most delicious food in
Charlotte in a warm, fun and inviting atmos-
phere.

The stylish Dilworth spot, tucked into a
beautifully renovated house on East
Boulevard, attracts quite a crowd; the scene
is perfect for people-watching, but don’t for-
get to make a reservation.

The night of my visit, the host informed us
that our reservation must not have been writ-
ten down, since there was no record of it, but
that he would try to seat us. He promptly dis-
appeared. I was just beginning to get testy
when one of my companions, ever the opti-

Ea

EOurtesy photo
300 East is located in this cozy house.

Es
ge 2A

ourtesy photo

Fresh sweet potato ravioli are is of the savory and delicious options available.

mist, suggested that perhaps the food was so
good that patrons were willing to put up with
unpleasantries like this. I didn’t believe her.
Thankfully, this was one of the only downs
of the evening.

300 East is dark, homely and toud. No one
will look twice if you are wearing jeans or
draped in a slinky, sparkling black dress;
someone else there is wearing what you are,
no matter what it is, and as a result 300 East
is a great place to go when you don’t want to
be noticed.

Ask to be seated on the urban patio, per-
fect at night, or better yet, in a cozy wooden
booth. The atmosphere is very intimate.

When we finally glimpsed at the menu, I
realized that my friend had been right. The
daily specials alone would have been enough
to satisfy the most discriminating guest, and
the curiously intriguing menu is simply spec-
tacular. Regardless of your taste, you should
find something appealing.

The appetizers, always the most tempting
bunch, range from earthy homemade soups
to sweet potato ravioli to baked goat cheese
with crusty baguette. Entrees are similarly
eclectic; try the Ahi tuna burger, the flank
steak with pomegranate glaze or the grouper
with baked crab.

Whatever you choose, there will
doubtlessly be something just as delightful to
follow; I have also been warned that they
have a new and mysterious fall dessert menu
that may warrant a second visit..

Don’t expect 300 East to be without a sliv-
er of Southern flare; the ubiquitous mashed
potato appears more than once, and a splash

ee

of gravy or the occasional fried green toma-
to should come as no surprise. Still, the poor
and patient victims listening to me prattle on
and on always ask the unavoidable question:
“What type of restaurant is it?”

I must admit that I have no answer; I have
no idea what kind of restaurant it is.
Nouveau American? Eclectic Southern?

“Whether you have a performance
‘to go to, a special occasion to cele-
brate, or antsy parents to entertain
for a weekend, 300 East will offer
you some of the most delicious food
in Charlotte in a warm, fun and
inviting atmosphere.

Even if I understood all the implications of
these strange and somewhat artificial terms,
I would still fail to apply them to 300 East;
the cuisine is simply too diverse and surpris-
ing to be given a name. But if I had my
choice, I would call it delicious.

courtesy photo

This ahi tuna burger, seared to perfection, exemplifies the eclectic cuisine.
