THE DAVIDSONIAN

note from your °

ver, y special editors

; Dear readers, potential writers and faculty, -

_-We neglected to address you last week due to the large
‘number of eager writers wanting to contribute to the first
issue. oo
That was last week. This week, we’re encountering a.
familiar problem: not enough articles. Which is funny,
given the typical Davidson student certainly has opinions,
as far as we can tell. .
~¢ In fact, Perspectives is. made. up entirely of opinions.
Perspectives is an open forum for students to do just that:
voice their opinions. We frequently receive articles on sub-
jects ranging from Patterson Court antics to presidential
elections to environmental activism, and we welcome both,
sides of any debate, «x. ». ae
22 We also have several regular columnists whose work: you
‘will be seeing frequently. While we try to keep the section
unbiased and open to all sides of every issue, only you c can
make sure that your opinions are voiced... oT

_ Therefore, we encourage submissions of 500-600 words
on any topic at any time. Responses to previously pub-
lished articles, in the form of letters to the editor, of about
200-300 words should be written within a respectable time .
period of the work discussed And yes, criticisms s of The
Davidsonian are allowed.. poe i -
(Keep i in mind, however, that the best way to fix a prob: :

m is to contribute to its solution.)”.°
> If you feel that you can contribute ‘to the quality of The.
avidsonian this year, please don’t hesitate to contact us,”
your Perspectives editors, Katie Mille and. Laura. Nan.
Oudenaren. [a eh

- Katie Miller 710, is a potential English major xr from New.
‘Syma Beach, Florida. But do not let that fool you, her life
is a joke. She is most proud of the fact that Pierce Trumbo
208, otherwhise known. as’ Silas Pierce; is also from this
gem of a town. Katie likes hiking, brownies, Laura Van
Oudenaren and The Davidsonian. Katie is.also known for

falling in love with a made-up person, allegedly named,

, Bibb Moore,”82 288222886 % ;
» Laura Van Oudenaren 10, is from Bethesda, Maryland,
and quite frankly, has no idea what she will major in, or do
with her life. It is estimated that Laura spends 75 percent of
her time thinking about Commons, and the other 25 percent

thinking about Katie Miller. Her talents include making sit~
uations awkward, binge gum chewing, mispelling her own

last name and falling off community bicycles.

# Other questions and comments can also be sent to our

‘editorial staff, Summerlee Walter .’08 and Pierce Trumbo

. Okay, if you actually read this far, good job, because we

have nothing else to say, But we truly admire your commit-
ment to reading every single word of The Davidsonian.

hat’s enough,

Katie Miller and Laura Van Oudenaren

Contact ’ Ge o * kamiller@ davidson. edu.
lavanoudenaren davidson edu

ee

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Letters from a road

Davidson student getting Down (Under)

Lyz PFISTER
Guest Columnist

I am learning the value of frugal living, realizing that I
probably should have brought my raincoat but left the giant
tapestry and finding that not looking right before I cross the
street could have dire consequences.

I’ve been at the University of Melbourne for seven weeks
now and am thoroughly enjoying classes such as “Nymphs,
Sluts and  Madonnas” and  “Art/Pornography/
Blasphemy/Propaganda.” In fact, as I write I am taking a
break from American Psycho to reminisce on the last few
weeks.

This Melbourne, my Melbourne, the food and fashion cap-
ital of Australia, home to Queen Victoria Market, the tallest
building in the Southern hemisphere and more restaurants
than I can count, with a population of 3,283,000—this
Melbourne is ferociously competing with Davidson as the
object of my affection.

At orientation, I filed out of a bus with about 40 other
IFSA-Butler kids after two days of travel. We spent the next
four days at Noosa Heads North Shore Resort in order to
banish jet lag, learn the Melbourne nitty-gritty and develop
four days worth of friendships to make the plunge into
Australian life less scary.

I was reminded of freshmen orientation and considered
making a sign that read, “Lyz. Davidson College. English
Major. I enjoy toasted sesame bagels with cream cheese and
walking outside with bare feet.”

Orientation was fabulous when I managed not to keel over
from exhaustion. There are troops (the word is correct, I
looked it up) of kangaroos lounging in the backyard like
squirrels. Although they appear to be relatively harmless and
let me come close enough to touch them, I hear that boxing
with kangaroos is not a good idea on account of their very
large claws and strong back legs. I crossed that off my list
of things to do.

We went to the beach for a surfing lesson and I actually
managed to stand up and surf to shore. I felt very Blue Crush
with the salt water lapping at my board as I paddled toward
the setting sun. At this exact moment I fell in love with
Australia.

Next up was Queens College. As we pulled up, I sudden-
ly became a little terrified of living abroad. The building in
front of me was palatial and reminiscent of Hogwarts with
its towers and archways,

Formal dinners are held Monday through Wednesday and
students wear black graduation-style robes to them. Once the
Queeners (all 200 of them) started to come back, it became
absolutely delightful chaos. The Australians are almost
absurdly friendly, and any of my fears about making friends
vanished.

We were immediately plunged into DisOWeek, a second-
semester orientation. On Sunday, all of Queens crammed
into the upstairs of Puggs and we foreigners learned the dif-.
ference between pots, pints and jugs while meeting more
people than we could remember.

Monday night was Bogan Turn (two new vocabulary
words— Bogans being vaguely like Australian hicks, and a
Turn being a party), so I found myself wandering through
the streets of Melbourne wearing multi-colored corduroy
shorts, a deliciously hideous shade of red lipstick and a yel-
low shirt with a screen-print dirt-bike. I also learned the
words to “Dirty Old Town” and re-met a host of people who
proceeded to introduce themselves with Bogan names like
Trizzzah and JadeStar.

By Friday, I had witnessed an inter-corridor pashing (kiss-
ing) contest and a general meeting, which included punish-
ment showers for falling asleep, and played “sudden
impact,” a game in which one person with a big rubber ball
runs at another person who has no rubber ball, and whoever
does not fall wins. I felt like I really earned my new green
and gold Queens polo and proceeded to wear it everywhere.

After about a month, I began to feel at home. I found my
favorite setting on the coffee machine in Eakins Dining
Hall, discovered Tim Tams (chocolate cookies which sand-
wich a layer of chocolate mousse and dipped in chocolate)
and spent considerable time wandering through the fresh
produce in Queen Victoria Market.

Rich, from down the corridor, said he owns a house on the
Great Ocean Road and invited Emma (fellow American),
Carl (Swedish!), Cam (token Aussie) and me up for the
weekend. We drove his car to the house on Saturday night
and finely dined on bowtie pasta with marinara, bagged
salad and Turkish bread with dips. I made an apple pie to
give the dinner a more coherent theme, and we sat picking
crumbly bits of brown sugar out of the pie dish as candle-
light fell on half-consumed glasses of wine and the ocean
purred outside.

We woke up early the next morning and drove another
two hours to the Twelve Apostles: huge rocks jutting out of
the ocean. These inspiring rocks are sentinels along the
Australian coast - slowly and inevitably being reclaimed by
the sea. After the four hour drive back to Melbourne, I found
myself agreeing with Carl when he said that he felt as if we
all had been friends for a long time.

I am now sitting in one of the innumerable cafés on Lygon
Street, thinking about home and what I'll be missing and
have already missed this semester—leading Odyssey,
singing with Androgyny, making spontaneous runs to
Cookout in the middle of the night and spending time with
friends.

However, I am absolutely positive that there is nowhere
else I’d rather be—if for no other reason than that I have two
Spring Breaks this year (in two weeks Ill travel to Sydney
and Brisbane and sail through the Whitsunday Islands).
Unfortunately, my café mocha is getting cold and I have a
chapter called “Tries to Cook and Eat Girl” waiting for me.
Welcome to Davidson Class of 2011, and to dear friends on
campus, I’ll see you next semester: meet me in Commons,
I’m already craving tri-tators.

Lyz Pfister is a junior English major from Carlisle, PA.
contact her at lypfister @davidson.edu.

Building a different kind of diversity on campus

Last week at Convocation, Davidson’s new president Tom
Ross called on the school to increase diversity on campus.

He urged the Davidson campus to welcome diversity in
our community and further open our minds to new ideas in
order to enhance our college experience.

However, when the newly renovated Duke Dormitory
opened a few days after his speech, I couldn’t help but notice
how Davidson falls seriously behind in one unique area of
diversity: the architecture of its buildings.

When I first encountered Duke, I paused just long enough
to glance, shrug my shoulders and continue on my way. It

‘looks just like every other building on campus: built with red
brick, Dotic columns and a pediment over the main entrance.

It is easy on the eyes and conforms to the “Davidson style”
that surrounds it. However, I want passerbys to react with
more than just a shrug of the shoulders towards the “nice”-
looking building. Just as Tom Ross desires a diversity of
students, faculty and ideas, we should desire a building on
campus that is different.

Many elite colleges and universities use cutting edge
architecture to elevate the prestige of the institution and
remain at the forefront of higher educational institutions.
Schools such as Harvard, MIT and Yale have a long practice
of hiring the most progressive architects.

During the development of the modern architectural style
in the 1920s and 1930s, these schools hired elite architects to
build the most progressive buildings of the time. These
buildings were often very different and not meant to fit in
perfectly with the older parts of campus.

In so doing, the buildings revealed a new type of diversity
and helped bring the school press and notoriety. Today, many
top schools build contemporary and often environmentally
conscious buildings for similar prestige. For example,
Princeton University is currently building a science library
designed by renowned architect Frank Gehry.

The building is designed in his signature style. Covered in
glass and polished steel, it sharply contrasts the Gothic style
of the old part of campus. Some may call it beautiful, others
may cail it offensive.

Either way, each student who encounters that building will
not just shrug his or her shoulders and keep walking. Instead,
English majors will feel compelled to enter the new science
library. Students will voice their opinions about the building.
Debate about the building will ensue.

In the end, the unique building will broaden the horizons
of the students, contribute to diversity on campus and raise
the school’s reputation.

I want this same sort of event at Davidson. I want a build-
ing that will compel me to go inside, even if I have no need

to. I want a building that will open our minds, get on our
nerves and foster conversation among students, faculty and
staff.

Just as we don’t want all of our
students walking around campus
looking the same, we shouldn't
want each of our buildings, stand-
ing in a neat row, looking the
same.

I even want a building that will infuriate some people. It
doesn’t have to be a huge new science library. It can be just
one small, different moment on campus; a moment where
everyone will stop, look and dare to venture in.

Just as we don’t want all of our students walking around

campus looking the same, we shouldn’t want each of our
buildings, standing in a neat row, looking the same.

Tarlton Long ’08 is an art and political science major
from Charlotte, NC. Contact him at talong@davidson.edu.
