SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Sam DIAMANT.
Staff Writer

Former Davidson football place-kicker
Brad Smith ’07 has made quite the transi-
tion—from the small-town Americana of
Davidson, N.C. to the glitz and glamour of
Los Angeles, from kicking field goals in
front of 6,000 at Richardson Stadium to split-
ting the uprights in front of the roaring
crowds at the 92,000 seat L.A. Coliseum.
This season, Smith is on the USC Trojans
roster, the #1 team in the BCS National
Championship rankings and the overwhelm-
ing pick by pundits to compete for a national
title.

Smith is not your typical transfer; he grad-
uated from Davidson this past May with a
. degree in Philosophy. He is currently enrolled as a graduate stu-
dent in the well-regarded Annenberg School for Communication
at USC. Smith is eligible to participate under an NCAA by-law
which outlines a one-time transfer exception allowing football
players to transfer and play immediately, providing that the play-
er was not previously recruited by the institution and does not
receive athletic-related financial aid.

Essentially, he is a walk-on with only one year of eligibility as
he works towards a graduate degree. Smith joins four others on
the USC roster who have already earned bachelors degrees.

Players are increasingly taking advantage of eligibility rules
concerning graduate school, red-shirts and the like. For instance,
Davidson Men’s soccer midfielder Dave Sartorio ’06 returned to
the team last season, completing his final year of eligibility after
taking a medical-redshirt for one season due to ACL surgery. At
USC, creative scheduling has been common in years past.

For example, after completing his degree during his junior
year, Heisman-winning quarterback Matt Leinart only took one
class— ballroom dancing—during the fall of his final season.

oe

ve been n ree us
e beginning

By Omar PICKETT
Staff Writer
Breaking news from The Davidsonian: the MLB is on a
witch-hunt.

Shame on the media for reporting that Rick Ankiel, the former
Cardinal pitcher who resurrected his career as a position player
and won the hearts of baseball enthusiasts across America,
allegedly bought a year’s supply of Human Growth Hormone
(or HGH) back in 2004. First off, it was for treatment prescribed
«x by his medical doctors to pitch as
quickly as possible. HGH wasn’t
banned by Major League baseball
until 2005, so Ankiel didn’t break
any rules. Yet, most importantly,
he’s a nice guy who’s been
through a lot. It’s not like he’s try-
ing to break the home-run record,
right?

As sports fans, it’s obvious we
have problems seeing clearly.
Heroes are immortalized in our
eyes, and we believe they can do no wrong. When you’re a huge
Mike Vick fan, who cares about dog fighting? When Michael
Jordan degraded his teammates and criticized Chicago Bulls
management, he was “making his team better.” When Lou
Piniella gets ejected in a baseball game, it is “the spark the Cubs
needed to succeed.”

Yet these same actions by less likable players draw opposite
reactions. When Kobe Bryant fights and degrades his teammates
and the LA Lakers management, he’s a cancer to the team.
When Rasheed Wallace gets ejected, he’s labeled a thug who
ought to be heavily fined. As fans, we tend to defend some and

Wildcat Roundup
Volleyball (5-4) Football (1-1) :

3-0 win against NC A&T 30-33 loss against Wingate
3-0 win against Air Force
2-3 loss against Gardner-Webb
0-3 loss against UNC-Charlotte

0-1 loss against Air Force
0-2 loss against Colorado College
Next up:

9/15 vs. Lenoir-Ryhne
9/29 vs. Jacksonville

Next up:
9/15 vs. Charlotte
9/21 vs. Stanford

Next up:
9/16 vs. Mercer
Next up: 9/21 vs. Vanderbilt

9/14 vs. UC Irvine
9/15 vs. Cal State Bakersfield Notes:
Bevin English ’08 moved into sole pos-
session of Sth place for Davidson’s all-

time career saves record.

Notes:

Matt Easton 08 received PFL
Defensive Player of the Week
honors, tallying 9 tackles, a forced
fumble, a sack and a 25 yard
interception return for a TD.

Notes: The outstanding Wildcat
freshmen class have combined for
212 kills so far this season.

Smith ’07 finds new life in Troy

Brad Smith ’07 was an All-
American kicker at Davidson

“Women’s Soccer (1-3) Men’s Soccer (1-2) Field Hockey (3-1)

2-1 win against Dayton

Notes: Aaron West ’08 made an
immediate impact in his return from Kayli Maxwell ’08 leads the coun-
injury as he scored a goal and
received a red card for a bicycle
kick to the head of a defender. He
will not play in Saturday’s game
due to NCAA rules.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

In an interview, Smith recounted some
humorous anecdotes concerning his first few
weeks as a USC Trojan. On one occasion, Smith
said, “Director of Football Operations Dennis
Slutak and Pete Carroll led the team in rapping
he first verse and the chorus of Snoop Dogg’s
| ‘Drop it Like It’s Hot.’”

The rap artist himself makes occasional
/ appearances in the Trojan clubhouse, and the
| home-crowd at the USC Coliseum is generally
? speckled with Hollywood A-listers (Davidson
football’s celebrity crowd is relatively lacking;
Steph Curry, former NFL Quarterback and par-
ent Bert Jones, and Fountain Walker have been
known to make appearances).

“During a team meeting in pre-season camp,
the whole team chanted ‘B. Smith’ and demand-
ed that I dance for them. The performance turned
out to be crucial in shaping my identity on the team and Coach
McNair now refers to me as ‘Dance Machine,’” Smith contin-
ued, with another story of locker-room levity.

The Trojans will battle tough non-conference opponent
Nebraska next weekend. Competitive PAC-10 matchups include
current Associated. Press #8 California (Berkeley), #11 UCLA
and #19 Oregon.

Though he’s moved on to a perennial D-1 powerhouse, Smith
has not forgotten his Davidson roots.

- “] had a fantastic experience at Davidson, and I’m honored
that I get to represent Davidson at SC,” said Smith, “T think that
its is especially important that I thank all my friends, professors,
teammates, coaches and Katy McNay [Davidson Athletic
Department Direct of Compliance] for all their help and sup-
port.”

Conceivably, Davidson’s own “Dance Machine” could be
called upon to hit some key field-goals down the stretch, as the
Trojans continue their quest for the national title.

When will the MLB hypocrisy end?

penalize others for making the same errors.

This brings me to the MLB’s feel-good story of the season,
Rick Ankiel, nicknamed “the natural.” Baseball fans, angered
by the media’s coverage of Rick Ankiel, flooded the internet to
defend him. Many of these same Rick Ankiel fans were the per-
secutors of Barry Bonds, yet their defense of Rick Ankiel falters
every time someone asks: “What about Barry?” Here are some
of my favorite excuses (oh, I mean defenses...):

“When Ankiel bought HGH, it wasn’t banned by MLB, so
technically he has done nothing wrong.” Yes! Very true, but this
nearly exonerates Barry Bonds from wrongdoing. HGH was
banned in 2005. With evidence already dubious against Bonds
for steroid use, there is certainly no proof that Bonds took
steroids or HGH beyond this date.

“A doctor prescribed the HGH for Ankiel, to accelerate recov-
ery from Tommy John surgery.” Again, this is a similar argu-
ment that Bonds’ defenders have used. Bonds’ grand jury testi-
mony stated that he received the cream and the clear back in
2003 from his personal trainer because he believed it was
flaxseed oil and a rubbing balm for arthritis. If health was an
excuse for Rick Ankiel, then it should undoubtedly be used for
Bonds.

“50% of the players were probably on it, too.” I don’t know
if this is in defense of Bonds or Ankiel. Either way, it probably
has some truth to it, but does net exonerate Ankiel.

The bottom line is that it will be hard for sports fans to draw
the line between Rick Ankiel and Barry Bonds in the steroid
era. Ankiel’s steroid use damages the game. But what may be
even more damaging is likeability mollifying the use of steroids
and performance-enhancing drugs.

Omar Pickett ‘09 is a men’s basketball manager who loves Bojangles, fudge-
cicles and shifting government documents.

Cross Country

1-8 loss against Stanford
4-1 win against Longwood

Men: Wake Forest Relays

15. Sam Morris ’08: 23:29/

Next: Josh Parkey ’11: 24:34
9/13 vs, California
9/16 at Longwood 18. Greg Marcil ’11: 25:14/
Charlie Schmitt ’11: 25:23
Notes:

Women: Wake Forest Relays
try in points scored (goals and
assists) with 17. Finished 3rd Overall

Caroline Sanker ’09 17:41
