fe

12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Field Hockey opens conference season convincingly

photo courtesy of
Sports Information

Britti Himelfarb ’09 has three goals on the season.

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team won both games in its
road trip last week, defeating Radford 2-0 Wednesday night
and Appalachian State 3-2 on Sunday afternoon. On Tuesday
afternoon, the ’Cats faced the #1 UNC Tar Heels

The Wildcats matchup against Radford remained scoreless
in the first half before Eleanor Cowley ’08 scored in the 45th
minute to put the Wildcats ahead. Kayli Maxwell ’08 added
another score in the final seconds to provide the final margin.
Both goals were unassisted.

“This is a huge win and confidence builder for us,”
Cowley said. “This shows what we can do when we play
hard and stay together.”

Coach Ginny Sutton said she was proud of her team for
overcoming not just the home-field advantage, but also the
terrain advantage Radford enjoyed, considering the
Highlanders field is natural grass instead of the much more
common field turf.

“This win shows what we can do
when we play hard and stay
together.”

--Head Coach Ginny Sutton.

The Wildcats were out-shot 12-8, but rode Christa Goeke’s
”10 seven saves to the shutout.

The recent series of close games continued for Davidson
when the team defeated the Appalachian State Mountaineers

3-2 in Boone.

Britti Himelfarb ’09 scored the Wildcats’ first goal, but the
Mountaineers answered with two of their own to enter inter-
mission with a 2-1 lead.

Sarah Addison ’09 answered in the second half, knotting the
score with a goal assisted by Maxwell. Catherine Ransone 708
scored the winning goal with 15 minutes to play.

“The game was very tough and physical,” Ransone said.
“After being down at the half we knew there was no way we
were going to let them win. Our two goals in the second half
came from great passing combinations and perseverance on
rebounds.”

Davidson put its three-game winning streak on the line on
Tuesday as the Wildcats hosted the top ranked North Carolina
Tar Heels. The Heels entered the game with a perfect 10-0
record and Davidson never really threatened giving them their
first loss.

The Tar Heels jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead in the first half,
while the UNC defense held Davidson without a shot.

“We knew coming in that this game was not going to be
easy,” Sutton said.

The second half did not prove to be any more successful for
the ’Cats as North Carolina tacked on three more goals. The
Tar Heels’ defense proved stifling and certainly representative
of the caliber of ACC field hockey. Davidson was unable to
create any shots throughout the entire match..

The Wildcats played all three of the team’s goalkeepers as
Goeke, Brittany Rollek ’09 and Mary Clay 10 all tried their
hands at stopping the North Carolina attack.

The 8-0 tally proved to be the final margin, and Davidson
fell to 6-3 on the season.

The ’Cats will continue their homestand by hosting
Michigan State on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. on the Turf Field.

West coast unkind to soccer; losing continues

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team dropped two games to PAC-10
opponents California-Berkeley and Stanford at the Stanford
Invitational Tournament last weekend in Palo Alto,
California. The team now sits at 1-6 and will begin its confer-
ence schedule at Elon this Sunday.

The young Wildcats led Friday’s contest 1-0 at the half,
showing that they could compete with the #22 California
Golden Bears. The advantage resulted from a score by co-
captain Robby Hoak ’08, his third on the season. Both Alex
Caskey ’11 and Machel Turner ’10 assisted on the score.

“Machel received the ball [from Caskey] with his back to
goal, around the top of the 18 yard box,” Hoak said.

He added, “I ran around the front of him, he passed it to me
and I shot it first time. I put some good pace on it and lucki-
ly it found the back of the net.”

In the final moments of the first-half, Cam Griffin ’09 had
a one-on-one opportunity with the Golden Bear keeper.
However; his attempt to go top-shelf from near the six-yard-
line went over the cross-bar.

“A midfielder played a great ball between two defenders
right to my feet, where I was one-on-one... I shot earlier than
I had to and barely hit it over the net,” co-captain Griffin said.

“The missed opportunity was disappointing but my first
collegiate goal will come soon enough,” he added with char-
acteristic optimism.

Sunday’s game proved the more frustrating defeat for Matt
Spear’s squad. The Wildcats rarely threatened on offense,
only managing two shots over the course of the game—nei-
ther shot was on-goal.

Strong play by goalkeeper Robby Goldsberry ’10 (five
saves in the first-half) shut-out the Cardinal through the open-

Player of the

Kyri Bye-Nagel 10
Women’s Soccer
Hometown: Hanua, Germany

Bye-Nagel was named Southern Conference Player of the
Week after tallying two goals over the weekend, when the
Wildcats won the College of Charleston Tournament title with
victories over Vanderbilt and LSU.

ing period. However, considering Davidson’s failure to gener- P**"
ate an offensive attack, a Stanford score was almost
inevitable. Stanford goals in the 50th and 66th minutes put the |
match away for the tournament host. :

With Davidson’s conference play beginning this Sunday,
the Cal and Stanford match-ups conclude the first phase of the
team’s non-conference schedule. But, looking forward, some
tough non-conference opponents remain. The Wilcats return
to Alumni Field on October 3 for a contest against the always =
tough South Carolina Gamecocks.

Later in the season, the team will compete against #7 Duke
at home (Wednesday Oct. 31) and #1 Wake Forest in Winston-
Salem (Tuesday Nov. 6).

Sunday’s game at Elon will indicate how the team measures
up with one of the SoCon’s stronger teams. As of late the
Phoenix have been playing good soccer, recording three wins
and four shutouts in the team’s last four contests.

Davidson will have a full week to rest and prepare for the #
game, while Elon faces tough ACC opponent Clemson mid-
week. The following conference match-up at home against
Furman on Saturday Oct. 6 should be another good measure
of how the ’Cats stack up.

The 7-1 Paladins, currently #25 in the National Soccer
Coaches Association of America poll, recorded their first lost
this past weekend in overtime against the #24 University of
Washington.

While a 1-6 start is disappointing by almost any measure,
the Wildcats have shown flashes of brilliance against Cal and
others. Overall, as they enter SoCon play and return for seven
of their next 10 games, the squad has potential to shine.

“We haven’t been able to put a full 90 minutes together yet,
but we know we have the capability and talent to win some
big games,” Griffin said.

x shitenst ourtesy of
ports Information.

Cameron Griffin ’09 has provided the energy to
Davidson’s offense this season. He came close to
recording his first career goal over the weekend.

Week PLAY OF THE WEEK

Women’s s ; Soccer vw wins s College of Charleston Tournament

The women’s soccer team’s weekend victories were filled with so many
exciting plays that it is impossible to choose just one. From Bevin
English’s ‘08 gutsy play in goal to Nancy Haskell’s ’08 defensive
clearouts to Kyri Bye-Nagel’s 10 exciting goals, the weekend’s success
was truly a team effort.
