STAFF EpIroriat.

Fan Support at the Men’s Basketball Games: A-
_ Sporting a 19-0 conference record so far this season, it is:
no surprise that the basketball team has drawn enormous .
crowds this semester. However, fans should spend their:
energy supporting the Wildcats rather than heckling oppos-:
ing fans as they did at t the Winthrop E Bracketbuster game.

Fan Support at All Other Sporting } Matches: D+.
Men’s basketball is not the only team at Davidson with
‘admirable numbers, The women's swimming team recent-
ly won the inaugural Coastal Collegiate Swimming
Association championship and both the men and women’s:
tennis team have taken six of eight matches. But they don’t.
draw crowds. Even women’s basketball, with its impres~"
sive conference record of 11-5, does not always receive the.
credit they deserve. Students would do well to support all”
of the varsity athletes and the staff would do well to pro~
mote them,

aoe

Environmental Awareness: B+ , :
While the Real Talk series on environmental concerns
has drawn to a close, efforts to continue awareness and.
positive: change on campus have continued. Davidson
recently entered the Recyclemania Challenge, and resi-:
dents of the Eco House finished up an impressive Green |
_ Week campaign. So long as students do not forget to con-
“serve and maintain eco-friendly habits, this category might
just re receive an A next time around.

“RSC © Residency: B- :
. Members of the RSC received their final scripts just four

“days before their performance, and even with their scripts
on stage, the actors blew the audience away with their
obvious skill and enthusiasm. As far as talent is concerned,
: we're well aware the RSC is more than capable, However,
this final installment of the Residency failed to impress.
overall. This year, the RSC’s events failed to capture the

No, nothing revolutionary happened this semester, §

‘Ahis may seem an un-provoked issue, However, the fact that
Dining Services has failed to expand its options is not.
impressive. For example, freshmen athletes who are unable”
to attend designated meal hours waste their required meal
‘plans. on a daily basis due to conflicting practice times
Meal plans are also not accepted at the Union Café durin :

The sBavidsonian

@ ALENDA EAIX UBI ORTA. LIBERTAS ¢@

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
* Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
News Editors
* ‘Alissa Curran & Chris Moore
£ “Perspectives Editors
* _.¢ Laora Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
~ “."“Arts & Living Editors
. Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood
Yow! Editors ~
: James Boswell & Alex Hoyt.
% Sports Editors -
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle*
Photography Editor a
Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor -
Gretchen Hoffman
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays ‘daring the academic | ye
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182, Phone (704) 894-2148.

E-mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in |:
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the.
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $50. 00 Der year. _Advertising rates are © available upon request. :

PE Ge

copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College:

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 27, 2008

Recent incident not just Court problem

By PauL STRoup
Guest Columnist

Two weekends ago, several Davidson students embar-
rassed themselves by making inappropriate comments to
African-American guests on campus. After reading David
Dennis’ article in last week's Davidsonian, I was also offend-
ed and frustrated by these students. They decided to mock
Mr. Dennis and his guests after a hip-hop performance at the
Outpost. Further, when these students visited a fraternity
party that same night, they continued to be badgered.

Racism and prejudicial remarks cannot be tolerated on
campus — in the Outpost, at a party, in the dorms or in the
classroom.

This academic year has brought our attention to some sen-
sitive subjects: whether we are helping minority students feel
welcome in the Davidson community and whether our cur-
rent programs are working.

It is important to remember that these comments could
have been made at any social event on campus. I hope we can
use this unfortunate experience as a springboard to open a
discussion of race and social life at Davidson.

It is not organizations, but indi-
vidual students who harbor racist
sentiments.

Several students called Mr. Dennis and his guests “dawgs”
and “homies.” These words are not racist in themselves but
become so when used in a demeaning tone. Perhaps these
statements were not intended to be perceived as demeaning.
Visiting Professor Hassan El] Menyawi recently said in a dis-
cussion between students and faculty that many derogatory
remarks are a result of ignorance rather than hatred. I hope,
and suspect, that the students used these terms out of igno-
rance, not hatred.

It is also important to remember that not all students who
attend Court parties are affiliated with a Patterson Court
organization. Davidson has chosen to keep social events
open to all students with a PCC sticker, regardless of whether
they have joined an organization or not. This policy fosters a
better community by eliminating the exclusivity of fraternity

events that exists on many other campuses.

Students are welcome to bring guests to Patterson Court
parties and often do. These guests may enter and stay at the
house as long as they follow the rules and remain with their
host. If visitors are unaccompanied or uninvited, Patterson
Court Risk Managers or house leadership must require these
visitors leave the party as stipulated by PCC policy.

Imagine the surprise to see 20 unfamiliar faces! If a stu-
dent at the party did not realize these young men were all
guests of Mr. Dennis, and thought they were instead unin-
vited visitors, this situation could certainly cause discom-
fort, regardless of race or gender. It must be Patterson
Court’s policy to consider and protect the safety of
Davidson students.

During this particular social event, all visitors were
informed of the house policy against fighting, not only Mr.
Dennis’ guests. The house in question had dealt with inci-
dents of fighting by visitors in previous years. It was their
policy for the night to prevent a fight from recurring by warn-
ing all visitors, including the guests of several brothers.
Though perhaps not the most tactful of policies, it was an act
intended to prevent harm.

In response to calls for the removal of Patterson Court
organizations, I agree with Mr. Dennis that racial tensions are
not simply a Court issue. It is not organizations but individ-
ual students who harbor racist sentiments.

Patterson Court organizations foster relationships, pro-
mote community service, host social functions and provide a
support group to almost half of the student body. The most
important aspects of our Patterson Court system are the rela-
tionships built between members.

We must continue to have an open dialogue about race
relations. The campus cannot continue to be divided along
racial lines, and it is not up to PCC, SGA or the BSC to break
these barriers. It must be determined by the student body.

Students must consciously defeat apathy and bigotry by
refusing to tolerate racial slurs or promote stereotypes.
Action must be taken by majority and minority students alike
to help better integrate the student body.

Paul Stroup ’09 is an Economics major and President of
the Patterson Court Council from Charlotte, N.C. Contact
him at pastroup@ davidson.edu

Democrats fail to address ideas, reality

“If substance were water, the
Democratic campaign would be a
desert.” Jonah Goldberg’s obser-
vation is spot-on. The issues dis-
cussed by Hillary Clinton and
Barack Obama address racism,
sexism and plagiarism. Each
campaign discusses how they
need to win over blacks,
Hispanics, women and the young.
Their exchanges involve debating
whom Martin Luther King Jr.
would support, who plagiarized
what speech and who has
endorsed whom. Each endorse-
ment leads the other camp to
claim a particular group has been wronged. They do not dis-
cuss ideas. They just scream whatever “-ism” is fashionable
at the moment.

Contrast this with the Republican. campaign. Questions
were not asked on how John McCain would win over the
young or how Rudy Giuliani would win over women. The
Republican campaign is centered around ideas, Could Rudy
win over the pro-life, pro-gun crowd? Could Huckabee con-
vince fiscal conservatives? Could McCain prove that he him-
self is a conservative? Could he convince them to ignore
McCain-Feingold and McCain-Kennedy and focus on the
war in Iraq and national security? Amongst the Republican
candidates, there were no charges of racism or sexism, just
charges of not being conservative enough. At Republican
debates, the candidates argued over real ideas such as taxes,
terrorism and freedom.

The candidates tried to win over the minds of individuals
with their proposals on taxes, immigration, guns, abortion
and so on. Republicans did not try to win over certain races
or demographics; they tried to show different schools of
thought that they have a home in the Republican Party.

Democrats ignore the people’s minds and instead appeal to
their emotions. Hillary tries to ignite fury amongst women,
Barack amongst blacks. They do not argue over ideas or poli-
cies, but rather who has dealt more with the corrupt Tony

g Sin cera

Bossy DESPAIN 4

Rezko or who has plagiarized more. However, once they get
past trying to out-scandal the other, the debate over ideas is
even worse.

When asked a question, each candidate responds how sim-
ilar he/she is to the other. Hillary and Barack are fairly iden-
tical. They like to get heated over the differences in their
healthcare plans, but in the end both offer socialized medi-
cine.

At Republican debates, the candi-
dates argued over real ideas such
as taxes, terrorism and freedom.

Hillary claims she is ready to lead on day one while
Barack counters that he opposed Iraq from the beginning.
Again, both would immediately pull troops from Iraq. Each
one makes the mundane claim to be the agent of change, but
all their positions are the same liberal policies heard for the
past 40 years. What they plan to change remains unknown.

The other difference between the parties lies in their over-
all attitude toward the United States. Republican candidates
like and respect their country and her people. The Democrats
cannot distance themselves enough from their country.
Michelle Obama recently said, “For the first time in my adult
lifetime, I am really proud of my country, and not just
because Barack has done well, but because I think people are
hungry for change.” Is she not proud of the fact that the
United States saved the world not once, not twice, but three
times and is trying to do it a fourth? Is she not proud when
Americans donate money to treat patients in Africa or aid
tsunami victims? Is she not proud of her country for creat-
ing a society in which she and her husband can obtain four
degrees and over a million dollars between them?

Thus, in November, voters will have to make the decision
between a party of ideas and a party of thirst. One promises
hope and change. The other promises reality.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He. is from St. Louis,
Mo. Contact him at bodespain@ davidson.edu.
