6

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Theatre Department’s produc-
tion of “Be Aggressive” began way back last
spring.

When Pete Schild ’08 decided he wanted
to direct a play, he explained,“I was one of
only two students eligible to direct the Fall
Studio Production. After the professors
granted me the Studio slot, I began reading
scripts. I searched far and wide for three
good plays that I could present to the com-
mittee as actual proposals for the fall produc-
tion.”

Eventually Annie Wiesman’s bittersweet
pom-pom-packed comedy struck a chord
with the enthusiastic Schild. Schild explains,
“We chose ‘Be Aggressive’ based on its rel-
evance to today’s society and life at
Davidson and of course the resources that we
as a Theatre Department have at our dispos-
al.”

The play’s plot takes on some very
weighty issues. Schild explained: “Laura, the
protagonist, loses her mother just before the
story begins. Of all the characters, she under-
goes the most difficult journey as she search-
es for an answer to the pit of emptiness in her
heart that used to be her mother’s place.

“She becomes hell-bent on filling that
space with cheerleading, but in the end she
must face the fact that there is no filling it.
Laura learns to let go, to cherish the memo-
ries of her mother and to move on with her
own life.”

Although the subject matter is serious, the
play itself “is by no means a tragedy.” “Be
Aggressive” is above all a comedy. Wiesman
wrote the play to emphasize the comedic,

Ask Audrey! On the state of dating at Davidson

By AUDREY
Guest Columnist

How many times have you heard about the
lack of a dating culture on our campus? Or
how many times have you had a question
about relationships, but didn’t know who to
ask? Have you ever wanted to know why
men or women do what they do? The Ask
Audrey column will cover all aspects of rela-
tionships, dating and intrapersonal etiquette.

My column’s first topic is one that’s near
and dear to my heart: the dating atmosphere
(or lack thereof) at Davidson. Yes, we all
know about the ultra-serious relationships
that lead to marriages and the hook-up cul-
ture that can begin with one or 10 too many
drinks, but do people actually date here with
the hope of getting to know someone new
and potentially interesting? I don’t think so.

There are many reasons that students
might find dating difficult: “I am too busy
with school work,” “I am not confident
enough,” “Does he even think I’m cute?”
But let’s get real! The fruits of a dating cul-
ture greatly outweigh the anxiety that comes
from the fear of one.

What isn’t nice about having someone you
care about on campus? We might illogically
fear the break-up or even the first conversa-
tion, but let’s live in the moment and enjoy
all the potential relationships and friendships
around us!

Before we all go around and discuss pro-
moting a dating culture, let me define what
that is. A dating culture supports the idea of
asking someone out on a date or simple get-
together with the sole purpose of getting to
know someone new or expanding a relation-
ship you already have. A dating culture
allows people to meet new people and, in
that process, look for a potential girlfriend or
boyfriend. A dating culture goes beyond see-
ing a cute girl at one of Warner Hall’s parties

and to focus on the tragic events surrounding
the characters, and to focus on the complex
resolution of problems.

Thematically, the play addresses the char-
acters’ ability to cope with love.

Putting the production together has.been
quite a journey for members of the Theatre
Department. As the director, Schild assumed
responsibilities not normally taken on by a
student.

“T made all of the final casting decisions
for the show, but this was not an easy task
because while auditioning is a fundamental-
ly flawed system, it’s the only one we have,”
Schild explained.

He believes that he ended up with a truly
remarkable cast. Directing the show has been
an unforgettable experience for him.

“The most enjoyable part has been watch-
ing the story come to life. People love theater

Audrey’ s new love advice column hopes to beat your relationship blues!

and having a crush on her. Why don’t you
ask her to have coffee? I will explain later
how to approach this task without being too
forward and creepy.

Or, girls, when you see an adorable guy at
a party, collect your confidence and go find a
way to meet him.

It will answer your questions about strik-
ing up a conversation with an attractive per-
son without feeling awkward, help you han-
dle anniversaries, talk about problems or sex.

I want to discuss the very first stage of the
potential relationship: The Crush. There are
many types of crushes: the guy with the girl-
friend, is hot to look at anyway, the senior
totally out of your league (which is not true.
No one is out of your league, if you play a
good game) and the single girl/guy you real-
ly would like to get to know better.

Let’s work with the latter. As a single
woman, one thing that really brightens my
day is when a cute guy gives me a smile or
when I meet someone new and appealing.
But how do you go about having a healthy
crush that can really develop into “some-
thing”?

Cheerleader Maret Seitz 40 struts her stuff i in front of the rest of the team.

— even when they have research papers and
midterms and presentations to worry about,
they. still dedicate themselves to creating
good art with the full knowledge that they
will receive nothing in return,” Schild
explained.

So come to the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m.
Nov 14-17 or 2:00 pm Nov 18. The cost is $6
for general admission and $4 for faculty,
staff, seniors and students.

Schild concludes with a final thought and
wish for the audience:

“Theatre is about learning. I hope that our
audiences laugh, cry and above all enjoy
themselves. I want them to experience the
journey that Laura must take and the relief
she finds at the end of this journey and ulti-
mately walk away from the production hav-
ing discovered something about their own
life.”

A very important rule I have been strin-
gently following is to avoid Facebook! Yes,
it is a great source to see if your guy or girl
is single, but, when it is used exceedingly, it
gets creepy and also unhealthy. It is bizarre
when you know all about the person when
you first meet him because of what you have
imprinted into your memory from his activi-
ties, favorite movies and “About Me” sec-
tions. It is much healthier to get to know
someone in person!

Also, don’t go EXTREMELY out of your
way to see or run into your crush. Yes, noth-
ing may be tremendously out of our way on
this campus, but, if you are taking multiple
study breaks to run over to the basement of
Sloan in order to buy a drink from the soda
machine because your cutie does his or her
work there, resist the temptation!

Even though we hope for the best, it is up
to fate to decide if you will see him or her
(Check out the movie “Serendipity” if you
don’t believe me.)

You also need to have enough confidence

See Audrey, page 7 ie

he serves as a volunteer firefighter and is’

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Nov 14, 2007

remy *s typical schedule runs. from: 8
2am, every Sunday: through.
hen I asked him ifthe long”
hours and. tantalizing ‘scents of baking
retzels and grilled wraps make him hun-
gry, he humorously’ said that the food “iS
not that appealing when you are around it.

ients have. dropped their salmon, on the
ground..The worst thing I have seen was,
when I dropped a bottle which broke. and.
When Jeremy is not working long h hours
charging meal plans. or counting change; :

responsible- fore -everything from. driving”
the vehicle fo manning the hose to put ou

4 He’s been a firefighter ‘since May 27
_ Jeremy is also an avid Braves fan and
ime history buff, and he plans on studying.
