THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gore unworthy’ hy of Nobel

; Alfred Nobel’s will allocated
| funds to reward. “the. person
who shall have done the most:
or the best work. for fraternity.
between nations, for the aboli--
tion or reduction of standing
armies and for the holding and

es?’ It is clear from Mr. Nobel’s
will that he: wanted the Peace
Prize to be. awarded based on
achievements. toward peace.
‘Bossy DESPAIN * What does scaring people about
global warming have to do with
peace?- Has Al, Gore’s: campaign for global warming
awareness saved lives? Did the sereenings of his movie
end tyrannical rule in North Korea, Iran or Venezuela? Did
his speeches promote fraternity in Darfur or free elections
in Iraq? Al Gore has not achieved any of these things.
The Nobel committee said that Al Gore and the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) were
recipients “for their efforts to build up and disseminate
greater knowledge about man-made climate change and to
lay the foundations for the measures that are needed to
counteract such change,” but perhaps they meant some-
thing different. Maybe they evaluated his entire life to find
his peace efforts, Al Gore represented Tennessee from
1976 to 1984 as a congressman and then as a senator from
1984 to 1993. He was then the vice-president of the United
States until 2000. In 2000, he ran for president, lost, called
for a recount, lost, sued and still lost.. Gore made a movie
in 2006 that won an Academy Award in 2007. None of
these things make him an especially noteworthy advocate
of peace. The committee, though, apparently thought this
work equal to Mother Teresa’s promotion of peace..
_» Al Gore and the IPCC are not surprise winners. The
prize committee has not hesitated in the past to select win-
ners with questionable records of championing peace. The
names Yasser Arafat, Jimmy Carter and Kofi Annan come
to mind. I have a hard time legitimizing an award for
peace when a terrorist, the least effective U.S. president in
history and a corrupt man. Those winners, along with Al
Gore, diminish the individuals who have actually deserved

renown for their contributions to peace (i.e. Martin Luther,

King Jr., Elie Wiesel and Mother Teresa)."»
“It is not.as if today’s world lacks individuals promoting.

‘and fighting for peace. Groups in Iran, China, Zimbabwe,
Iraq, North Korea, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria or Burma,

-would have been ideal recipients. These. groups, which

sactifice everything to obtain a sliver of liberty and peace,
would have been supremely better. choices than Al Gore.
‘and the IPCC, Thus, it seems that not winning the Nobel,

Peace prize is.a ace honor th winning i

: Bobby DesPain Mi is undeclared. Heis is from St Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain @ davidson.edu.

Life on the Court
An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss
Chapter Two: Vanity

Meet college student X - that guy who loves beer ~

As he checks himself out in ‘Terry's bathroom mirror:

For the past several hours X has, shall we say,
Put on an “impressive” binge-drinking display;

- Impressive, since not many people can imbibe
As much booze as he has and still be alive.

And yet, while his friends lic passed out on the ground,
X is just getting warmed up for his night on the town.

Yes, his spirit is willing; however, flesh is weak,

Which & apparent in his drunken and disheveled physique:

His hair is a mess, his eyes bloodshot red,

He has the word “TOOL? scrawled across his forehead;

He isn’t wearing shocs for pants for that maites),

And his shirt bears the stains of dried throw-up splatter;

He looks like a hobo and smells like a latrine

That's been staffed with dead fish and drenched in gasoline;

His vision is blurred, his face flushed and aglow,
And in bis fight against gravity he sways to and fro.
How can X, you may wonder, be in any position
To go out and party in such an awful condition?
‘The alcohol, you see, has so impaired his. mentality
That he no longer has a firrn grasp of reality;

An inverse relation emerged with cach guzzied brew:
While his appearance declined, his confidence grew.

As X looks in the mirror, upon closer inspection
We see that he’s actually adoving his reflection!
in his addled statc, X believes his complexion

Is nothing short of the image of perfection.

X stands in the bathroom a drunkard, a slob,

But his doppelgiinger stares back an Adonis, a god. -

X chuckles to himself, assured by the claim.
That the girls will be all over his “study” frame

(That happening has the same chance as a snowball i in hell,

Unless, of course, the girls are wasted as well.)

This delusional conceit, at which even Narcissus would snort,
Makes vanity the second stop on our tour of the Court,

promotion of peace congress-.

PERSPECTIVES

Letters from abroa

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007. 9

Bolivian children’s home life changing

Kim GorlE
Guest Columnist

This summer I spent eight weeks in Sipe Sipe, Bolivia, a
small town outside of Cochabamba. I lived and worked at
the Bolivia Life Center, a permanent home for street boys
that currently houses 70 boys but has the capacity to house
over 200.

The center houses boys who watched their fathers beat
their mothers to death, those who were left on street corners
and those who suffer brain damage because they were so
severely beaten by their parents. Every story is different, but
all are tragic.

While in South America, I assisted in oral surgery, took
boys to deplorable third-world hospitals, bought birthday
presents for their girlfriends (some things are the same in
every country), read “Where the Wild Things Are” or
‘Donde Viven los Monstruos” over and over, held the hands
of the teenage boys as they poured out horrific stories,
learned (well, attempted to learn) Bolivian break dancing,
ate chicken heart and rocked to sleep three year olds with
STDs.

Despite all the craziness, my life changed the most
because of a nine-year-old boy named Marcelino Garcia.
Marcelino’s mom, a prostitute, abandoned him on the streets
as a toddler. He went through several different homes before
reaching the Life Center and has the STDs and the scars to
show for it.

He owes his life to his 13-year-old older brother Joel, who,
despite his own youth, never abandoned his little brother.
Marcelino has been at the Life Center since it opened four
years ago but until May had been unable to bond with a
female.

Because of his history with his mother, Marcelino spent
his life avoiding women. My second night in Bolivia, while
we were at a bonfire, the tiny little boy plopped into my lap
and fell asleep. For reasons I still don’t understand we began
a relationship unlike any that I’ve ever experienced. Some
mornings, Marcelino would run to me, throw his arms
around my neck and call me “mama.” Other times, he ran
screaming from me or told me he never wanted to see my
face again. Still, other times he refused to do his chores with-
out “100 besos de mi madrina Kimi” (100 kisses from my
godmother Kimmie).

This up and down relationship frustrated me, and I had no
idea how to handle it. As I continued spending ame with
Marcelino, the good times began to increase while the angry
episodes became fewer.

Early in the summer, I decided to sponsor Marcelino,
which involves sending money and letters to him regularly

; 4 . ¥

in Bolivia. Sponsorship is a huge deal for the kids at the Life
Center.

I saw tons of letters and pictures of the boys’ “madrinas y
padrinos” (what they call their sponsors) under pillows in
their dorms. ;

The first week I was in Bolivia, Marcelino’s feet were
infected. The bottoms of his “pies” were covered in pus
pockets the size of quarters; the infection’s smell almost
knocked me over the first time I took off his socks. I washed
his toes with hydrogen peroxide twice a day and bleached his
socks by hand to make sure his feet were clean. One night I
was going to be out in Cochabamba and thus unable to per-
sonally bring him some clean socks, so I left a note on his
bed that told him I had left clean socks and that I loved him.

Marcelino pulled out that note two nights before I returned
to the U.S., demanding that I read it to him. I was amazed. I
tried to convince him, that, since it was only a note about
socks, wouldn’t he rather read one of the books I had brought
to his room? But he again asked me to read the note.

After I read it to him, he smiled and put it back under his
pillowcase (he didn’t have a pillow). I looked under the case
and saw all the other notes I had written to him throughout
the summer. He had kept everything.

During my last week I had to pull him out of my bed mul-
tiple times. He begged to stay with me for “just one night.”
The last night, he took my watch off my wrist and wrote his
name on the band with a marker so I would never forget him.
He then gave me a mini Bible lesson, reminded me that
“Jesus te ama, Kimi” and told me he loved me for the first
time. r

After crying together, I tucked him in for the last time that
summer. When he waved goodbye, I saw that his wrist was
covered in two inches of my hairbands.

Thanks to the founders of the Bolivia Life Center,
Marcelino left a life of desperation on the streets for a life
with hope and a future, complete with good food, a warm
bed and the promise of a paid college education.

Although I can’t wait to get back to South America to see
all the boys again, it is a great comfort knowing they are safe
after their troubled backgrounds. I am extremely blessed to
be a part of changing their lives, just as they are a part of
changing mine.

For more information on the way the lives of Bolivian
street children are being radically changed or to consider
sponsoring one of the five boys who still need a “madrina 0
padrino” please visit www.cinonline.org or contact kig-
orie @davidson.edu for more information.

Kim Gorie ’09 is a Psychology major from Houston, TX.
Contact her at kigorie@davidson.edu.

