Editorial

ae. Dh D8 GE AIDE ig hes APE fof shail ae

AS we go into that good night

It’s the get-me-out-of- “here time of year. In addition to

“going home like the rest of you, some of us are leaving a
project that has consumed our time, provided much humor,” :

nibbled at our souls, put us on Prilosee and offered us, for

better or worse, a different perspective on the Davidson.
experience.: We. are talking, of course, 7» about editing The,

Davidsonian.

Monica Jamouneav and Mike Wellman have all made
valuable contributions to the newspaper that go well
beyond anything they could write in their resumes. Thanks
to our elusive Yowl crew—-Alex Hoyt and Dan Killian—
for providing the funny stuff each week, sometimes only

two days over deadline. (Said with love.) To the kids—
Alissa Curran, Patrick McArdle, Katie Miller, Laura Van -

Oudenaren and Jennifer Errington—who are hanging
around for a few more semesters, thank you and good luck.
And welcome to our newest editors: Caroline Wood and
James Boswell. We would also like to thank others who
have contributed throughout our time here: Kate Gillespie,

Joe Reed, Paige Taylor, Nathan Bradshaw, Brendan Parets, »

Jeff Yeakel and Alissa Irei. Thank you to Bill Giduz and
our own Ben Elinor for photos. And, to the two College
presidents who have kept us informed and supported us,
thank you. Bobby, we miss you, and Tom, we couldn’ t tbe
more glad that you’re here.

We’ve also had the sobering experiences of covering Jena
and racism on campus. Off campus, . we. have tried to

bridge the gap between the Town and the College with

coverage of development, elections and Town issues.

2 Next semester, we’re turning the paper over to Suzie
Eckl, who, when she returns from Australia, will pick up-
where we left off. We cannot think of anyone on staff who |
is better-qualified than she is to serve as Editor-in-Chief.
Best. of luck. to you, Suzie. We promise to visit on q
conan after we’ve hit ep 7 21-Year-Old 1 Night. ©

rather share this experience.”

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS ©
, Editor-in-Chief .
“,. _Stmmerlee Walter —
Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo
News Editors
Alissa Curran, Monica Jamouneau &.Chris Moore
j~ Fi ‘Perspectives Editors
pO) Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
2 Arts & Living Editors
ie Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman.
2e* Yowl Editors / :
= Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian , #
Sports Editors G
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor a f :
Ben Elinor ae

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

© The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year « a

_ by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
» address all correspondences to: The Pavidsonian, PQ, Box 7182,
Dayidson, NC:28035-7182400° 0 9 2 Ee eg c

- E-mail Davidsonian@ davidson.edu. Our offices axe located in
, Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union.. Opinions expressed in.
_ letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect. th:
_yiews of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College,,

- We would like to thank o our senior editors who have’
worked, suffered and laughed. alongside us. Will Bryan,

We feel privileged that our time here has coincided with 5
“several notable events on campus. From the renovation of ;
Duke and the institution of theme halls to the new debts”
free financial aid policy to the selection of a new President”
to the rise of the men’s basketball team, we have had the-
opportunity to cover campus-changing issues and events...

S. Pm co-opting the last inch to thank you, Pierce, for:
the truly incredible job that you have done as. Managing”
Editor. From. the late-night humor and Cast Iron Filter
sing-alongs to scaring the staff into action to the exempla--
ry job you did in bringing the campus’s attention to Town
matters, I cannot thank you enough for your dedication

and skill. I cannot think. of. ne with whom 1 would.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
DECEMBER 12, 2007

a “oo

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Racial slurs in Belk Dorm not in Davidson adit

To the Person Whq Wrote Racial Slurs in Belk Dorm,

While we recognize your right to your own beliefs, we
were disgusted by your mode of expression; please keep
your opinions off the walls of our home.

Your actions violated the sanctity of our community. Do
not let it happen again.

Sincerely,

3rd Belk West

Davidsonian necessary outlet for student opinions

Katie MILLER & LAURA VAN OUDENAREN
Perspectives Editors

Davidson students freely express their opinions—loudly
and frequently. Many of these opinions tend to become crit-
icisms of whatever Davidsonian error or controversy is the
current topic of conversation. As editors of the Perspectives
section, we often beart the brunt of these criticisms. Every
issue brings its own unique and trying obstacles. We editors
are periodically at fault; despite hours spent in the office,
inevitably, every so often a title is deleted or an article mis-

attributed. We do not deny these occasional errors, but we do,

Strive to make this paper as professional as possible.

Other criticism also arises with regard to the substance and
variety of the articles. Our advice to this campus is not to
stop criticism—if there’s one great thing about a liberal arts
campus, it is independent thought. However, it’s also true
that this paper is understaffed. The same writers are pressed
into service week after week because we simply do not have
enough students willing to submite articles. We’re not refer-
ring solely to Perspectives, either; from reporting campus
events to sports write-ups and editorials, you'll note the
same authors grace these pages all too frequently. Why is it,
in a school teeming with writing intensive majors such as
English and History, that we have only one person writing in
the sports section this week apart from the Sports editors
themselves? It’s the same story for the News section. This

staff is not only editing but, for a large part, producing a
great deal of the paper’s substance.

Last year, we overheard a senior in the Union tell his
friend that The Davidsonian is “a sinking ship.” We urge you
to be a part of the change you’d like to see for this paper; if
you’d like to have the SGA meetings reported, maybe it’s
time to make that happen.

Above all else, we urge you to appreciate this paper for
what it is: a weekly publication produced by students for stu-
dents. Let us know what interests you; we’re open to con-
structive criticism and suggestions for improvement. But
one thing that keeps us satisfied is that, since people have so
much to complain about, they must be at least reading the
paper in order to form these opinions. Last week, someone
carved racial slurs in the Belk lounge. A few days later,
someone vandalized the second Akers lounge. The now-infa-
mous “free-speech board” in the Union consists of a few
well-thought out opinions overwhelmed by the inappropriate
and provincial comments that surround them. Clearly,
Davidson students need to learn to express their opinions in
an appropriate and acceptable manner.

Although some people might believe that it is sinking, we
believe The Davidsonian is and will remain a great outlet for
student opinions.

Katie Miller and Laura Van Oudenaren ’10 are English
majors from New Smyrna Beach, FL and Bethesda, MD.

Clinton: all politics, no political experience

; No couple since the
“ff Rosenbergs has been as morally
| dubious as the Clintons.
Between his affairs and perjuries
and her inability to hold an opin-
ion without consulting a poll,
they make quite a pair.

If the Clintons were not such
media darlings, they would be
burned at the stake. Does anyone
have any idea what Hillary

Clinton stands for? Does Hillary
J have any idea what she stands
for? I doubt it. It must be hard
for Hillary to converse at all
since her conversations are constantly political. While try-
ing to appeal to everyone, how can she make sure she does
not contradict herself? She cannot. An obvious example was
her inability to answer the question regarding driver’s
licenses for illegal aliens during the Democratic Debate. I
can understand her lack of opinions on everything in an
attempt to get elected by appearing to have everyone’s opin-
ion, but what I cannot understand is her apparent connec-
tions to Red China.

If the Clintons were not such
media darlings they would be
burned at the stake. Does anyone
have any idea what Hillary
Clinton stands for?

When asked about these connections (a rarity), her cam-
paign normally responds with accusations of anti-Asian
bigotry. It is important to note that Hillary Clinton raised
$380,000 at a single fundraiser in Chinatown. For reference,
John Kerry raised $24,000 during his entire 2004 campaign
in Chinatown. Of Hillary’s $380,000, it is highly likely that
a good chunk of it involves suspect donations. For example,
the Clinton campaign has listed Shin K. Cheng as twice

donating $1000. There is one small problem: there is no
record of Shin K. Cheng. The address he gave was a STD
clinic where no one knew him. Several people have also
come forward claiming to have been reimbursed for their
donations. These “straw donations” are illegal.

There is also the case of Norman Hsu. Since 2003, Hong-
Kong born Hsu was a major Democratic donor and fundrais-
er. He gave over $850,000 to Hillary Clinton’s campaign.
However, Norman Hsu was not an innocent man. He was a
fugitive wanted on fraud charges. Federal prosecutors most
recently tacked on a charge of breaking campaign finance
laws by donating to Hillary Clinton through other people
(straw donations). Hillary Clinton vehemently denied any
knowledge of this.

I find statements like this hard to believe. This is a woman
who is notoriously known for control. Apparently, she pulls
the strings while everything runs smoothly and in her favor,
but when it goes sour, she blames her staff or claims igno-
rance. Case in point: during November, several people came
forward claiming that members of Clinton’s campaign had
them ask Hillary Clinton certain questions. Hillary of course
denied any knowledge of the plants. How long can denials
like this continue before people realize that she either has no
control of her campaign or that she has complete control and
is trying to make herself look good?

Hillary Clinton needs to be asked how she feels she can be
president with no significant accomplishments or experi-
ence.

Yes, she was the First Lady, but does that make one presi-
dential? Her big accomplishment as First .Lady—health
care—did not even receive a vote in Congress. Her senatori-
al career has not been full of huge legislative accomplish-
ments, either.

She should be questioned about her support of the clemen-
cy her husband granted to Puerto Rican terrorists and her
refusal to release her White House correspondences. Clinton
needs to be questioned with a lie detector though, because
she will not give the real answer under normal circum-
stances.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@ davidson.edu.
