THE DAVIDSONIAN

Inauguration, from page 1

Boye received the Boswell Family Faculty
Fellowship, which annually allows a faculty
member to take a full-year paid sabbatical.
The fellowship will support Boye’s research
on sol-gel chemistry, a process that con-
tributes to making optical materials.

Professor of History and Director of the
South Asian Studies Program Job Thomas
received the Jefferson Award in recognition
of his personal influence, teaching, writing
and scholarship that promote Jefferson’s
high ideals.

Vice President for Academic Affairs and
Dean of Faculty Clark Ross described him as
a “person with a life-long mission” of bring-
ing two worlds—India and Davidson
College—together through leading faculty
trips to India, initiating the Semester in India
Program and bringing lecturers from India to
the College.

The Alumni Association Award, given

annually to the sophomore who finished his
or her first year with the highest GPA, went
to Julia Ward.

The Goodwin-Exxon Award, given to one
student in each class in recognition of his or
her leadership and community service
efforts.

Darrell Scott ’10, Richmond Blake ’09
and Amy Killian ’08 received the award.

After the ceremony, people headed over to
Knobloch Tennis Center or braved the mud
to reach the tent set up next to Baker. The
College provided 3,300 meals in commemo-
rative wicker baskets for attendees. The left-
over meals went to three Charlotte homeless
shelters.

Ninety-one representatives from other col-
leges and universities, including Swarthmore
College, Middlebury College, Harvard
University and the University of Georgia
attended the ceremony.

The Wind Ensemble and the Chorale pro-
vided the music.

Watson, from page 1

what’s being done and what should be done.

If he could have a superpower: It’s not
original, but flying. Then I wouldn’t have to
use planes.

Sara Sams 708

Major: English

Hometown: Oak Ridge, TN

Extracurriculars: Chorale,
Chorus, Libertas

Proposal: Spiritual Expression in Verse
and Song: Literature and Choral Arts in
Communal Spaces

Countries to visit: Peru, Argentina,
Madagascar and Australia

Why she loves her proposal: The only
thing I could spend a year doing is sacred
poetry.

If she could have a superpower: I’d want
to be a siren.

Concert

(ae

Sams.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
JD. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—’07
NC Academy of Irtal Lawyers, past. president.
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Summerlee Walter ’08

Major: English, Religion minor

Hometown: Cleveland, OH

Extracurriculars: The Davidsonian,
Head RA for the Row, Tour guide

Proposal: Schism or Service?: The Future
of the Anglican Communion

Countries to visit: Wales, Bangladesh,
Botswana and South Africa

Why she loves her topic: I’m in the dis-
cernment process to become a priest in the
Episcopal Church. I’m very attached to the
Communion, and I find it extremely frustrat-
ing when people reduce complicated issues
to black and white statements.

If she could have any superpower: I’d
want to read minds/have telekinesis. But I'd
use it for good.

Recipients will be announced March 15.
The Davidsonian wishes the best of luck to
all involved.

ast
Davidson’s Watson Finalists: Summerlee Walter, Grant Kyle, William High and Sara

Sandy Carnegie .
B.A. Davidson College
JD. University of Richmond |

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
“83~'85; 88°97
‘Town of Davidson Commerctal and
North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenberg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Other Areas of Practice
Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trasts

Bn
cDitta
Reed
LAw FIRM
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to-the Brickhouse Tavern)

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007 3
a si

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Student Government Organization
(SGA) met last Thursday to discuss issues
pertaining to the Town’s development proj-
ects and their effects on the community.

The senators also discussed updates on the
ongoing Real Talk project and the Academic
Policy Committee.

“We need to do whatever it takes to make
sure the campus is truly involved in the dia-
logue,” SGA President Chris Burton ’08 said
of the town development issues.

Senators discussed the positive and nega-
tive effects of building a light rail system in
Davidson that would connect to Charlotte.

“When you build a light rail and shops,
{that} requires land,” Vice-President of SGA
Davis Greene ’08 said, “so [the developers]
offer checks, and they build. It’s not so much
a direct force, but land prices rise, and [the
people of West Davidson} can’t pay it.”

Another senator added that at a West
Davidson stakeholders meeting the group
was polarized on the issue of development,
with only about half of the committee
expressing enthusiasm for it.

Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. there will be a
stakeholders committee meeting to further

discuss the issue of development at the Ada
Jenkins Center, located at 212 Gamble St..

With elections nearing, candidates in the
mayoral race met for a debate on Monday
night in the Sprinkle Room. Here, candidates
expressed their attitudes and future plans
regarding development. The debate was co-
sponsored by SGA and The Davidsonian.

Senator Whitney White ’08 announced
that the Nov. 14 Academic Policy Forum on
the environment will be changed to an alter-
nate date because it conflicts with the men’s
basketball game against UNC-Chapel Hill.

White is a student representative on the
Student Academic and Educational Policy
Committee as well as the Educational Policy
Committee of the Faculty.

The forum, whose revised date will be
announced soon, will feature Associate
Professor of English Annie Ingram, who
engaged with environmental studies.

The Real Talk project, SGA’s prime initia-
tive for the semester, has focused on envi-
ronmental reform, a topic for which students
voted earlier this month.

“There is so much the school is doing right
now, that we never even knew,” Burton said.

An environmental forum will take place in
a few weeks, and there is even talk about
developing an environmental major.

eServant Leadership

¢ Balanced Development

eEconomic Health of Davidson

eListening and Responding to the Citizens

«Common Sense, Forward Thinking, Courageous Decision Making

Uniquely Qualified to be Davidson Mayor

John is a Davidson native and understands the challenging issues facing our

community.

He has 36 years of financial and managerial experience and is successful at

achieving results.

John participates in Leadership Davidson 2007, and understands the important
relationship between Davidson College and the community

Involved in both his community and church, he will work to enhance the quality of life

for all.

