4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Patterson Court runs its inaugural Day of Service

BY SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“It's not just about the image.”

That's what Service Chair of the Patterson
Court Council Libby Hubbard '08, had to say
about the organization's increasing emphasis
on community involvement.

“We're not just trying to convince people
that there's more to us than parties,” she
explained. “We also want to show our own
members that service doesn't have to be an
obligation or a chore, We want them to real-
ize helping others can be satisfying for them
as well, and that they don't have to devote
every aspect of their lives to service in order
to make a difference.”

All 12 houses support the initiative, and on
Nov 3, their efforts culminated in the PCC's
First Annual Day of Service.

At the event Alpha Phi Alpha sponsored
“Turning Dreams into Reality,’ a mentor
program for minority youth from the
Davidson area. Connor House put on its hard
hats and went to work on two houses for
Habitat for Humanity, while KA held a yard
sale for the Davidson/Cornelius Daycare
Center.

Both Kappa Sig and FIJI traveled to
Huntersville, the former to work with people
with mental disabilities at Hinds Feet Farm
and the latter to help renovate the Hope
House Foundation, a shelter for domestic

Libby Hubbarg i

Sig Eps Chris Ryan ’10 and Craig Cangemi 10 clowned around with kids at Ada.

violence survivors.

PIKA traveled to Wake Forest University
to participate in a walk benefiting the
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.

Rusk House volunteered at Joshua's Farm,
which offers visitors a therapeutic horseback
riding program. SAE raised funds for the
American Red Cross, and Warner House
assembled safety and awareness materials
for local HIV/AIDS clinics. SigEp and
Turner decided to combine forces and organ-
ized a field day through Ada Jenkins for
youths from the Davidson area.

This event was by no means PCC's first

Emily May 10, ‘Maret Seitz *10, Emily Cannon ’10, Katie Miller 710 and Kate Wiseman
10 created 4,000 packets containing condoms and other items promoting safe sex.

Flu shots and cake available in the Union this week

By Evan KREUTZER
Guest Columnist

It's flu vaccine time! Yes, even you, the
clever Davidson student with a plethora of
excuses, need to get the vaccine. Last year,
I heard every excuse in the book. This year,
I'm calling you on them:

“The shot hurts / I don't like needles.”

The pain of a week-long fever or making
up four days of missed assignments is far
worse. In the hands of our expert nurses,
you'll barely feel a prick. I'll even hold your
hand if that helps.

Beat this chills this season with a shot!

“But I can get the flu from the vaccine.”

The version of the vaccine that we admin-
ister comes from an inactivated (or “dead’’)
flu virus. You simply cannot get the flu from
the vaccine, so you'd be dead wrong if you
thought otherwise (pun intended).

“Well, that may be so, but I know I got
sick last year right after I got the shot.
How do you explain that, huh?”

Good try, but you can't blame the vaccine.
It can take up to two weeks after receiving
the shot for your body to build up a solid
defense against the flu. If you contract the
flu in the days before you get the vaccine or
right afterward, you can still get sick. That's
probably what happened.

“J don't want to have an allergic reac-
tion to the shot.”

Allergic reactions to the shot are rare, but
we screen for them ahead of time. Rest
assured, you would probably already know
if you were allergic to it.

“T've never gotten the flu before:
know I won't get it this year.”

Well, you've pretty much jinxed yourself
now. Despite what some of us think, no one
is immune to the flu. You can minimize your
risk by washing your hands, not kissing your
sick girlfriend, or eating and sleeping well,

foray into community service, nor will it be
its last. For example, on Oct 20, Connor and
KA held a tennis tournament that raised
$1,089 for the Jay Chitty Memorial
Scholarship. Throughout the year Connor
also raises breast cancer awareness through
the Bosom Buddies campaign, and KA sends
volunteers to the Davidson/Cornelius
Daycare center three times a week.

“We also want to show our own mem-
bers that service doesn't have to be an obli-
gation or a chore. We want them to realize
helping others can be satisfying for them
as well, and that they don't have to devote
every aspect of their lives to service in
order to make a difference.”

-- Libby Hubbard ’08

Turner volunteers regularly as well. Every
week Turner sends tutors to the Ada Jenkins
Center, and members are currently being cer-
tified as Big Sisters for the Big Sister-Little
Sister organization -of America.

Likewise, SAE is developing a long-term
partnership with the American Red Cross.
This year, the fraternity has already helped
the organization move offices and also
organized a campus-wide canvassing project
to raise awareness.

In addition, last year Rusk's Education for
All Ball (in collaboration with PS and
Engage for Change) raised $157,000,
enough to cover education for 50 students
for four years in Kalifi, Kenya, and to treat
over 22,000 children for parasites.

but the flu vaccine is the best way to protect
yourself,

“I don't have time to get a flu shot.”

I'll bet you have time to eat our free cake.
It'll take you 10 minutes to get the shot and
finish your cake, unless you want seconds.

“I don't want to pay for the shot.”

You don't, at least not on the spot. The $20
cost gets billed home with your tuition.
What's $40, 020 0 compared to $40.0 000 a year?

On Nov 17, house members will partici-
pate in Service Destination Unknown, in
which girls will be divided into groups and
spend the day working at a volunteering site
without knowing where they're going until
the day they leave.

PCC's next big service event is Warner's
Annual Red and Black Ball, which benefits
the Metrolina Aids Project and Building
Tomorrow. The dance will be held on
December Ist, and Warner Hall is planning
on sponsoring a series of events to raise
awareness and promote education about
HIV/AIDS.

Although Patterson Court members may
be better known for their social activities,
their service and impact on the lives of those
around us are major parts of joining theiror-
ganizations. So next time you plan on visit-
ing the Court on the weekend, remember that
the majority of excited Davidson students
were ballin’ for a cause.

Ruskie Michele Torsiglieri 10 smiles.

“I got the shot last year so I don't need
it again.”

False. The shot's only good for a year-, so
you'll need to get it again if you want to con-
tinue being flu-free.

So you think you've got a better excuse?
Then try me. Just come by the Union Atrium
on Thursday, Nov 8 or Wednesday, Nov 14
from 10am to 4pm. If you stump me, then I
will give you as much free cake as you
desire.

LLL LED

