6

Opera not as scary as you might think

By KATIE MILLER
Perspectives Editor

A friend’s spontaneous invitation to
accompany him to the opera on Saturday
evening elicited from me a curious, but deci-
sive, yes. Having never been to an opera, but
an ardent admirer of theatre, the decision
was an easy one, and I was set for a new
experience. The opera in question was
Charles Gounod’s “Romeo et Juliette” at
Opera Carolina in Charlotte, and I felt fortu-
nate to have such a familiar plot for my first
experience, since I knew I would not under-
stand the language (French).

Prospective audience members should be
aware that the opera is three acts instead of
the play’s five and that, while numerous
changes to Shakespeare’s plot were made for
the opera, it retains the general storyline that
we love from the original. In fact, Opera
Carolina even abbreviated Gounod’s opera,
which is probably a good thing, considering
that the cast was still bowing three hours
after the curtains opened.

My expectations drew mainly from repeat-
ed viewings of “Pretty Woman.” Needless to
say, in the minutes I had to get ready, I
donned a black dress and pearls, thinking of
Julia Roberts’s evening gown and jewels,
because I wasn’t sure if the relaxed dress
code of today’s society would apply to Opera
Carolina, I decided to play it safe.

It came as no real surprise, however, that
when we entered the theatre, the audience’s
attire ranged from casual to formal, some-
thing that I think makes opera more
approachable to today’s public.

Hesitancy to attend the opera due to the
language barrier is needless; the theatre pro-
jected English subtitles above the stage. As

excited as I was to be able to follow along, I
have to wonder whether the projections
deterred my attention from the stage too
often.

It was more enjoyable to watch the stage
and deduce the meaning of the lyrics from
the actions and highly emotional staging.
The beauty of the music and the singers
along with the grandeur of the stage were
lovely enough not to require subtitles.
Richard Gere told Julia Roberts that she
would be able to understand the opera
despite her lack of Italian; the real compre-
hension is emotional and found not in the
lyrics but the music.

I found the casting of Mercutio and the
Friar most engaging, and I enjoyed whenev-
er either of them made an entrance onstage.
The addition of Stephano, an adolescent
friend of Romeo, was charmingly played in
the operatic tradition by a woman. However,
my least favorite cast members were the
leads:

Romeo was not quite the dashing romantic
we expected from Shakespeare, and his
voice failed to captivate compared to the
other male singers on stage. Juliet, along the
same lines, was less than inspiring. That is
not to say that the lovers were dreadful; quite
the contrary.

The general spectacle of the performance
left the greatest impression on my memory
of the evening. My theatre major companion
and I were envious of Opera Carolina’s enor-
mous budget.

The disdain with which people view the
performance art is unfortunate. The sheer tal-
ent I witnessed was enough to convince me
that opera is well worth the sacrifice of an
evening on Patterson Court.

Friends who warned of boredom after

1

Juliette awaits the arrival of her Romeo.
hours spent listening to high notes and
lovers’ serenades were pleasantly wrong. I
found the experience very approachable yet
elegantly reminiscent of romantic notions I
have always held. “Romeo et Juliette” may
be the first opera I have had the opportunity
to enjoy but Opera Carolina impressed me
enough that I fully intend to make attendance
a habit.

If you’re having second thoughts about
viewing Davidson’s production of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s H.M.S. Pinafore on Nov. 10
and 11.

The emotional power and beauty of song
that can be experienced at the opera is some-
thing that should be experienced at least
once, and at the very least you'll be able to
do a decent job of imitating Adam Sandler’s
Opera Man character.

Check out SoAlive! art gallery for workshops, spiritual health

By CAROLINE WooD
Staff Writer

Davidson students treading the well-beat-
en path to Summit may have noticed a styl-
ishly bare, unmarked storefront among the
gnomes and ATM machines.

This somewhat mysterious (or at least
under the radar) establishment has a surpris-
ingly interesting purpose and a story behind

=

Doug Vinez’s photos from Africa are just one of the interesting exhibits at SoAlive! on Main Street.

it that you probably have not heard.

The bare storefront hides the SoAlive!!
Gallery, and the forces behind its inception
were Mary and Eric Vogen, a Cornelius cou-
ple who answered the call to share their pas-
sion for faith, spirituality and inspired living
with the community.

They decided to follow these passions
with their work in a non-profit organization
dedicated to creative, enriched living. Last
February, their efforts resulted in the opening
of SoAlive!.

The gallery features unique art exhibits,
and the gallery also houses workshops, lec-

tures and programs for spiritual seekers and
anyone eager to learn.

Each of the Gallery’s diverse and unique
programs is designed to inspire people to
live fully and purposefully, as well as to
awaken their spiritual, physical, mental and
emotional health.

The Vogens believe that the best avenues
for such awakenings may come in unconven-
tional packaging, explaining that creative

pursuits can affect lives just as much as stu-
dious sermons.

Many of SoAlive!’s programs also work
pair music, art and personal expression with
philanthropic causes bigger than individuals
alone.

Last May, the gallery hosted a photogra-
phy exhibit entitled “Out of Africa” featuring
the work of Doug Vinez, a photographer and
pastor from Lake Norman.

The exhibit benefited the Mwandi
Christian Mission in Mwandi, Zambia.
Proceeds supported the work of the mis-
sion’s hospital, school and AIDS counseling

center.

Despite the gallery’s spiritual direction, it
has hosted a wide variety of events focused
on improving quality of life, from a writer’s
workshop for amateur writers hoping to be
published to healthy eating workshops and
CPR classes.

SoAlive! has also established its own rela-

tionship with the College, co-sponsoring
author Marilee Pierce Dunker’s visit to cam-
pus in
September and
teaming up with
the Lilly
Programs office
to offer the
Vision Wheel
vocation work-
shop free of
=’ charge to inter-
ested Davidson
students.
Yous never
know what the
Vogens will use
their unconven-
onal gallery
for next, but we
can certainly
look forward to more joint events with the
Coliege in the future.

Although the Gallery is still somewhat
new to the area, the positive message and
spirit of its programs has already begun to
make significant changes in the community.

So the next time you stroll down Main
Street, consider peeking in to check out the
Gallery’s next art exhibit or workshop or, if
you have some free time, stop for a chat
andlisten to the unique perspectives the
Vogens offer on the world in which we live.

Whether you are an art major or just need
a break, you won’t be disappointed.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
Oct 24, 2007

Students enjoy
alternative breaks

By Cara Wooproor
-.. Staff Writer

-This year, since a record number of.
people. showed interest in taking an.
alternative”: break,’ the Community -
ervice Office decided.to offer:.on
more trip this Fall Break than had bee!

To prepare for the trips, Alternativ
reak. coordinators Amy: Killian and

g and other logistics of the trips. The.

oney any way they want.i <=
This year, Killian and Case tried an*
pplication process. to give students a’
airer opportunity to participate. Killian
mphasized that these trips are not onl,
bout doing community service but also
bout making sure that the service-is
oth “intentional and meaningful.”
Christie Mason. and Philip Ruzycki®
led a trip to Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where
they. ‘stayed at the University ‘of
Alabama. There « they © worked at.
Myrtlewood Elementary . School, - a,
chool with a 50% poverty rate.»
Davidson. students painted an educa-.
ional ocean mural, landscaped the out-«
ide to the building, and worked on ay
planetarium with the intention of enrich:
ing the education for the children within
hat community. :
» Anna Drake and Athan Makansi led a an
trip to Piedmont Biofuels, home to the.)
world's biggest: biodiesel co-ops. The
0-op is located in Pittsboro, NC, -a.
,900-person town about one e hour west

* Piedmont Biofuels creates - biofuel
from waste oils, such as the oil byprod-«
ct of fast-food restaurants, which stu
ents had the unfortunate responsibility
of cleaning. They also mud-plastered a,
t that houses a biodigester, a machine
owered by manure that breaks down..
the byproduct of biodiesel production.
‘In addition to cleaning out barrels of
oil and putting mud on huts, the group
kicked back. at. the Shakori, Hills ..
Grassroots Festival. ;
Libby Hubbard and Drew Patterson ‘
ed. a group to Asheville, NC. to the
Jewish, Community % Center. » They
worked with the accessibility, depart- -
"ment of the Center's Mountain Housing —
Opportunities, an effort to create afford-
able housing in the area. ae
For two days, they worked to com- ©
» plete a ramp for a house. On the third
~ day, they took a tour of the Mountain
= Housing Opportunities ~ office and
_ learned about the inner workings of the
_ organization.
= Nancy Waldrop and Davis Greene led
a group to Washington, D.C. where they
_ took part in a program called Urban
~ Plunge, put on by the National Coalition .
« for the Homeless. The Davidson group
__ spent 48 hours living like homeless peo-
ple, 1% ee
At night, they slept in normal resting |
locations for homeless people. Each stu-
dent had only a bag with a blanket and
layers of clothes, but no money. During
the day, pairs of students walked the city
and interacted with the homeless. |... ....
Waldrop said the most difficult part is
accepting money from another person. 2.
- See Breaks, page’7

due

