ce

_created in.4998 to eliminate controversy .

Up until this point, the BCS has been a

often then not, there is a very deservin

: incorporates computer rankings as well a

To make matters worse, Florida State’s:

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

BY OMAR PICKET _—
3 Staff Writer »

sale

s the college football s season enters its :

sfinal weeks, BCS, controversy» already «
“Tears its ugly head. So, over the next few:

weeks,: before. another. team is. unfair!
denied a shot at the title, I will explain why,
-the BCS is bad for college football.“
The Bowl: Championship Series. was.

-surrounding ‘the. national _championshi

constant failure, Almost every fall, team
t serewed out of a shot at the title. More.

‘team that’s.on the ‘outside looking in.
Because of. the complex: formula. which |

human polls, college football fans are us
Ally left unhappy with the results. ae
_ In 2000, while Oklahoma was the clear

“#1, Miami and Florida State both ended

the season 11-1. With Miami ranked sec-.
ond. in the polls. and Florida State third.
However,» the ~ BCS.“sankings “ had
Oklahoma #1 and FSU #2, leaving Miami
‘out. of the championship . game. despite.
being ranked higher than FSU in the polls, :

nly“loss was to.:.Miami! «
In..2001, while Miami remained und
feated, a slew of upsets knocked out many
‘of the top teams during the last two weeks
of the season. Nebraska, which ;was
thumped 6236. by: Colorado,” knocked
them out of the Big 12- Championship
Game. Oregon was then ranked second in
the polls, while. Nebraska. was . fourth.
However, the BCS had Nebraska leapfrog
Oregon and put the team in the national
championship despite the /fact , that.
Nebraska didn’t even win its conference.
An 2003,:Southern Califomia, the #1
team in the Associated Press poll, was left:
ut of the BCS national championship,
which / pitted -#2¢° LSU” against / #3
klahoma. What made this controversi
was that Oklahoma had lost. the Big” 2
“Championship G. Game to Kansas State 3.

Volleyball
(10-19, 5-11)

11/3 vs. Elon, Lost 2-3
11/4 vs. UNC Greensboro, Lost 0-3

(5-4,

11/3 at San Diego, Lost-49-52

McKillop era brings renewed success

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

When Coach Bob McKillop moved to
Davidson in 1989, he didn’t make too many
long-term plans. While McKillop had been.
an assistant at Davidson in 1979, he saw this
coaching stint as an opportunity to spring-
board into the coaching ranks of major col-
lege basketball. McKillop knew Driesell’s
story, and he knew that he could use this
opportunity to his advantage.

I n
Driesell’s
first year, he
made an
immediate
impact by
upsetting
Wake Forest
early in the
season.
McKillop
went 4-24 with a team that wasn’t even play-
ing in the Southem Conference. The next
two years were not much better. By the time
Davidson rejoined the Southern Conference
in 1992, McKillop had been humbled
enough to realize that maybe he should refo-
cus his priorities.

The Queens native came to buy into the
Davidson way and invested all of his mind
and self in the Wildcat program. McKillop
changed his philosophy and success fol-
lowed.

The Wildcats
made their first
postseason appear-
ance under §
McKillop in 1994 §
when they were
selected to the NIT
after losing by one
point in the
Southern
Conference tour-
nameont
Championship
Game.

Two years later
the Wildcats had
one of their best “
seasons ever as
they went 14-0 in
conference play and only lost three regular
season games. But NCAA glory once again
eluded the ’Cats as Western Carolina
knocked off Davidson in the tournament
championship game. It was a heartbreaking
loss for a senior class that included eventual
NBA player and Davidson Hall of Famer
Brandon Williams.

Although the Wildcats lost in the first
round of the NIT that year, a more important
thing had transpired during the four-year
careers of players like Williams and Chris
Alpert: Davidson basketball had become a
winning program again. The Wildcats won
Southern Conference tournaments in 1998
and 2002 and have advanced to the postsea-

McKillop has led Davidson to four SoCon championships and
three NIT appearances during his tenure at Davidson.

son each of the last three years.

McKillop would go on to fashion the tal-
ents of players like Ali Ton, Landry
Kosmalski, Michael Bree, Chris Pearson and
Brendan Winters into a winning system. That
system called for effective perimeter pass-
ing, unceasing picks and screens and the
ability of every player on the court to hit
jump shots. McKillop also emphasized
extremely physical defense and smart bas-
ketball. Whether McKillop brought in a
player from North Carolina or the Czech
Republic, they were all taught to play one
way: as a team.” ¢

Perhaps that is see McKillop Era,
one of the biggest page 10

Men/’s soccer stumbles at season’s end

By ZacHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Although the final scores this week did not
show it, the men’s soccer team played three
stellar matches against excellent teams.
They may not have earned the wins, but dur-
ing this final stretch of the season, the
Wildcats have proven themselves to-be a
respectable adversary. On Halloween, the
team played the Duke University Blue
Devils, on Saturday they faced off against
the Cellege of Charleston and on Tuesday
they battled Wake Forest.

Prior to this week’s games played, the
team was on a four-game winning streak.
Unfortunately, the #17 Blue Devils snuck out
of Alumni Stadium with a win. Davidson
did not let the devils leave without a
Halloween scare, though.

The first half was purely defensive with
goalie Matt McElroy’s ’11 two big saves.
McElroy is the third string goalie and
stepped up four games ago when the second
-string goalie got injured. McElroy shows
nothing but promise as he registered a save
off of a direct shot at the seven minute mark
and another at the 24-minute mark when he
dove to the right to stop a powerful post shot.

At the half, the game remained scoreless.
McElray would not let anything get between
the posts, and the Davidson defense came up
big ori many of Duke’s offensive attempts.

Women’s Soccer
(14-4-1, 8-1-1)

11/1 vs. Georgia Southern, Won 2-0
11/4 vs. Wofford, Won 2-1

3-3)

Next up: Nextup: #- Next up:
11/9 at App State 11/10 vs. Valparaiso 13/9 vs. Furman
11/1] vs. Georgia Southern 12/1 The Gridiron Classic 11/13 SoCon Championship
Notes: Notes: Notes:
Katie Pierucci °08 tied her career The Wildcats look to finish The Wildcats were recognized on
high total of 24 kills in the team’s above .500 for the third year in a both the National Soccer Coaches
tough five game loss to Elon. row. Association of America/adidas and

Soccer Buzz Magazine regional
polls for the second time this year.

After the half, the game remained score-
less for 29 minutes. At the 74-minute mark,
Duke brought the ball down the near side of
the field, and Joe Germanese sent a cross to
the box where Zach Pope headed it into the
net to put Duke up 1-0. Only 10 minutes
later, Davidson led a fiery offensive and
almost tied the game up when Charlie Reiter
”10 lined up for a free kick, missing by inch-
es when the ball hit the top bar and came
straight down. Davidson had three more
shots on the goal in the second half but could
not sneak one in. At the 88:13 minute mark,
Duke player Spencer Wadsworth fired in a
goal to lead the Devils to a 2-0 victory. Seth
Kulaksekera 11 had a lot to say about the
loss to Duke.

“This loss did have some positives. It
shows that Davidson can compete
with teams that are ranked and at the
top level of the NCAA.

--Seth Kulaksekera ’ 1]

“This loss did have some positives,”
Kulaksekera said. “It shows that Davidson
can compete with teams that are ranked and
at the top level of the NCAA.” Davidson did
a great job against a ranked Duke team and

tant match against SoCon opponent College
of Charleston to finish the home schedule. A
win could have meant a home field advan-
tage going into the conference tournament.
Unfortunately, the Wildcats fell in an all out
brawl, making their SoCon record 2-4-1.

Davidson scored first on Saturday when
Alex Caskey °11 and Charlie Reiter *10 set
up a comer for Robby Hoak ’08. Hoak sent
in a header to put the Wildcats up 1-0. This
was Hoak’s fifth goal of the season and his
19th career goal. At the 42-minute mark, the
Cougars tied the game at 1-1 when Kareem
Yearwood scored from 12 yards away. Zach
Prince and David Munson set this goal up
with two one-touch balls.

With 19 minutes left in the half, College of
Charleston’s Wes Knight fired a penalty kick
in from 12 yards out due to a foul within the
18 yard box. This goal would prove to be the
game-winner. Unfortunately, Davidson’s
only shot in the second half was a bit off
when Charlie Reiter "10 missed wide. with
four minutes left. Despite the loss, Matt
McElroy ’11 registered a career high of four
saves.

In a late Tuesday game, the Wildcats
ended their season against the #2 Wake
Forest with a 5-1 loss. Rob O’Donnell *10
scored the lone Wildcat goal.

Davidson will play in the SoCon tourna-

showed heart by holding them to two goals. ment this weekend against UNC
On Saturday, Davidson had a very impor- Greensboro.
"
Men’s Soccer Field Hockey Swimming
(4-13-1, 2-3-1) (10-10, 3-3) Women (3-2)
Men (0-4)
10/31 vs. Duke, Lost 0-2 NorPac Tournament Results
11/3 vs. CoC, Lost 1-2 11/1 vs. Longwood, Won 4-2
11/6 at Wake Forest, Lost 1-5 “11/2 vs. California, Lost 0-5 Next up:

Next up:
11/10 vs. UNC Greensboro

Notes:
Robby Hoak ’08 kicked his team
leading fifth goal in the Wildcat
loss to the College of Charleston.

11/3 vs. Radford, Lost 0-2

Notes:
The Wildcats advanced past the
first round of the NorPac tourna-
ment for the first time since their
first year in the NorPac, 2000.

11/9 at Gardner-Webb
11/16 Davidson College
Invitational

Notes:
Lindsey Martin remains undefeat-
ed in the 50 meter freestyie with
a time of 27.08 versus College of
Charleston.
