6

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

A beautiful afternoon last Wednesday
marked the grand opening of Davidson’s
new sculpturé garden located under the
foliage between Chambers and Little
Library. Consisting of three diverse and

intriguing pieces of art, the garden will pro--

vide students, faculty and visitors with a
peaceful venue to study and enjoy a peaceful
repose.

President Ross initiated the ceremony with
a welcoming speech, which touched on the
garden’s importance and overall impact on
the learning environment of the College.
Believing the garden to be more than merely
another gathering place, President Ross
emphasized that it “creates a new venue to
leam and appreciate art.”

Director of Visual Arts and the Campus
Sculpture Program Brad Thomas explained
the process by which the pieces were select-
ed.

The Sculpture Program maintains a set list
of criteria that pieces must meet in order to
be eligible for selection. First, the artist must
have created or explored a new genre.
Second, he or she must be “virtuosic” in his
or her genre. Lastly, his or her art must rep-
resent that genre.

In addition, Thomas commented that
before the installation of the sculptures, the
garden was merely a “space without identity
or direction” and that the improved area is a
“cultural haven outside the walls of th

gallery.”

What makes the garden even more pre-
cious is that the artists that are featured are
highly accomplished and well-regarded, and
students across the globe study their works
in art classes.

The art is so accessible that you could
observe one of the sculptures and then walk
into the library and check out a book on the
artist. In addition, a forthcoming audio guide
explaining the sculptures, will provide
another level of accessibility.

While one can sit and passively observe
the sculptures, the garden is designed for a
more active experience. As you move around

A view of the Sculpture Garden with ‘Homage to Rodin’ in the foreground.

the garden, you get a different perspective
viewing the sculptures. Daytime light and
ground lighting at night create two different
experiences. Try changing your perspective
by sitting instead of standing, and you can
see myriad differences in angles, lines and
shapes.

Depending on where you start, your over-
all experience will be different each time you
visit. The bronze angular sculpture closest to
the library is called ‘Untitled’ by Joel
Shapiro, and is a gift of the artist and
Katherine Belk.

Moving clockwise around the garden, you
find the ‘Homage to Rodin’ by William

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPT 19, 2007

with open arms

Tucker, a gift to the College from the Class
of 1993. Completing the trio stands the
human-esque “You” by Antony Gormley,
donated by Davidson’s own Ruth Anne and
Bobby Vagt in honor of their daughters
Ashley Vagt Buford ’94 and Lindsey Vagt
01. Attached on the bench which encircles
the garden are three plaques with more infor-
mation on each of the sculptures that reside
there.

Students and faculty present at the open-
ing seemed sincerely pleased with the gar-
den. Professor of Classics Dr. Toumazou
commented that the garden is a “really won-
derful addition of culture and arts to the cam-
pus, and the garden makes you feel right at
home.”

Laura Webb ’08 appreciates “where [the
garden] is placed because everyone walks
by.”

Whether you are an art aficionado or
chemistry major, the sculpture garden may
provide you with a moment of zen.

Considering the generous donations that
make the sculpture garden possible, we
should feel fortunate to have these pieces
and make sure that they continue to stand
here for future students.

So, the next moment you spend studying
next to ‘You’ or contemplating ‘Untitled,’
take a moment to play with light and shapes
or stop into the library to read up on the
artists. Slow down on your hurried walks
between Chambers and the library. Green
gras is much better than the dearly departed
green carpet, and you could use the break.

Duke’s themed halls may cause enthusiasm

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

If you walked by the back of Duke
Residence Hall a few weeks ago, you might
have thought you had left Davidson and
found yourself in another, more foreign land.
You might have swayed to the crisp tunes of
Son Quatro without realizing it, found your-
self contentedly munching on a fortune
cookie and enjoyed the rare sight of watch-
ing students salsa across the sidewalk.
Perhaps if you stuck around long enough,
you saw one girl skip over to President Tom
Ross and invite him to join the dance party.

The newly renovated Duke is no ordinary
dorm. Not only is it the culmination of years
of planning and a year of construction, it is
also the trial run for a brand new. living
option at Davidson: theme halls.

“The idea that sparked the project was to
gather a group of students who share similar
international interests and have them live
and work with one another,” Professor of

Spanish and faculty advisor for the Spanish
hall Dr. Samual Sanchez-Sanchez, the facul-
ty explained. “After extensive conversations
with students, it became clear that they were

The side of Duke that faces Chambers.

particularly interested in two specific
themes: a Spanish language and cultures
community and a community focused on
political and economic development.”

The newly relocated Dean Rusk Office,
which was moved to make international cul-
ture more visible on campus, is a key feature
of Duke.

“Since the interest in international studies
and experiences has always been strong and
has continued to grow here at Davidson, the
Dean Rusk Program thought about using
their new home in Duke as a platform to
emphasize the importance of having an inter-
national component as part of the Davidson
education,” Sanchez-Sanchez said.

On the Spanish hall, which is housed on
the first floor of the dorm, students will
speak the language as frequently as possible
and learn about the cultures of various
Spanish countries over the course of the year.
“An overarching goal is language immersion
— living, speaking and using Spanish both as
a way to interact with each other and as a
tool to reflect upon issues that interest stu-
dents,” Sanchez-Sanchez commented.
“Overall, there are at least two main goals
that we would like to accomplish as a com-
munity: making Spanish the principal means
of communication and enhancing student-
faculty interaction outside the classroom.”

In addition to improving language skills,
students will meet with their faculty advisor
once a week for hall programs. “These meet-
ings will probably consist of discussing an
article, watching a movie, eating a meal
together or just talking about some issue
related to the theme,” Sanchez-Sanchez
explained. “In these meetings my task as the
advisor is to facilitate the discussion.”

Taylor Denslow, ’08, the RA, added,
“We’ ve discussed organizing a possible serv-
ice-oriented spring break trip to South
America. We will also be attempting to cook
and prepare food from Spanish-speaking
countries and discussing relevant topics,
such as Latin immigration into the U.S.”

The residents. of the Political and
Economic Development hall, just one floor
down, will also attend weekly meetings with
their advisor.

“‘We’ve had a couple of preliminary meet-
ings, and the students are debating how
they’d like to organize the hall’s activities,”
Professor of Political Science and faculty
advisor for the hall Ken Menkhaus said.

Emily Miller ’10 has several goals for the
year. “I would like to do some workshops
with speakers and compare the contributions
that different cultures make to their
economies,” she explained.

“{ chose to live on this hall because I am
not as politically or economically aware as I
should be. J support a particular platform,
but I am not always certain who represents
the ideas that I value or how economic
development is affected by the political deci-
sions that a population makes. Right now I
feel like I’m swimming around in a pool of
different notions, but by the end of the year I
would like to have a more stable understand-
ing.”

Clearly, the hall’s theme and programs are
already promoting awareness of develop-

Duke’s classical architechture welcomes any visitors who venture inside.

ment issues.

Both the students on the theme halls and
their faculty counterparts are optimistic
about the coming year.

“I am very happy to be a part of this excit-
ing and unique cultural community on cam-
pus,” Sanchez-Sanchez said. “The student-
faculty interaction outside the classroom is
definitely an important component of this
experience, and I am looking forward to
meeting with students and spending time
with them in their own space in order to have
thought-provoking conversations in an infor-
mal environment.”

Taylor shared her advisor’s enthusiasm.
“Tt’s hard to find time to devote to the hall
when our schedules are already so busy, but
I think once we actually get into the routine
of meeting weekly it will be very rewarding
and exciting.”

On the whole, it seems that the themed
halls are catching on, and clearly some dif-
ferent thinking is being inspired by the new
environment. While you may not be whisked
away to foreign lands from campus, t’s good
to see people thinking about issues and cul-
tures that exist miles away.
