THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

ll

The Wildcat Pulse

Men’s soccer team
still aiming high

By ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

The Wildcats enter next weekend’s
Stanford Invitational at Palo Alto on the
heels of a 5-1 loss to cross-county rival
Charlotte.

“The final score did not show the unbe-
lievable work ethic and cohesiveness we had
as a team,” team co-captain Cam Griffin ’09
said of the disappointing loss.

The Wildcats played two men down for
much of the game due to a pair of red cards.
The first came in the 37th minute of play
when the referee ejected Whitey Bolan ’09
for a hand-ball in the box. Later on in the
59th minute, the official issued a second red
card to forward Tom Lavan ’08 for a danger-
ous sliding tackle. Charlotte capitalized on
the handicapped Davidson squad, scoring
two goals while playing with the advantage
in the final 30 minutes.

Even after a tough 1-4 start, the young
Wildcats continue to be optimistic.

“We are getting better and better each day
and can feel the energy and spirit of the team
rising,” Griffin said.

Men’s soccer will compete at the Stanford
Invitational in California this weekend with
non-conference games against Stanford and
California-Berkeley. The California Golden
Bears are ranked #11 in the nation going into
the tournament, while the Stanford Cardinal
also fields a strong squad.

__ a =

After the California trip, Matt Spear’s
team plays its SoCon opener at Elon on Sept.
30. Then, the team returns to Alumni Field
for home games against South Carolina and
Furman. Both teams are strong: Furman is #3
and USC is #5 in the Southern regional rank-
ings by the National Soccer Coaches
Association of America.

“We have worked extremely hard on and
off the field thus far and have had moments
of brilliance; however, unfortunately, we
have not gotten the results we are looking for
yet,” Griffin commented.

Yet the season is still young. “Our goal is
to hit our peak come conference games and,
in particular, the conference tournament,”
Griffin said.

Volleyball tourna-
ment disappoints

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Despite an All-Tournament performance
by Sarabeth Peele ’11, who collected 31 kills
over the tournament, Davidson volleyball
dropped three games against UC Irvine, Cal
State Bakersfield and hosting Arizona at the
Arizona Invitational and their Tuesday home
game against Winthrop in Belk Arena.

Against UC Irvine, Davidson jumped out
to early leads of 4-2 and 9-7 behind the stel-
lar blocking of Kittery Neale ’09 and Alison
Dwyer ’09, only to lose the lead after a serv-
ice ace by Irvine’s Chelsea Ellis sparked a
five-point run to stretch the Irvine lead to 14-
9. The Wildcats could not overcome the

‘COMLLESY 6
Sarabeth Peele ’11 made the All-
Tournament team at the Arizona
invitational.
deficit, losing the game 30-15.

The second game mirrored the first almost
exactly, as Irvine again made a 9-7 run, this

.time to take the game 30-17.

In game three, the Wildcats again seemed
in control, leading 16-11 and forcing the
Anteaters to take a timeout. Unfortunately,
Irvine pulled itself together and clinched the
match on Lauren Kellerman’s 12th kill of the
match.

Saturday proved just as disappointing for
the Wildcats. In the first match against the
Roadrunners, Peele tallied 15 kills while
Katie Pierucci ’08 collected 13, but these
individual performances were not enough to
win the day for Davidson. The Wildcats
dropped three games in a row to Cal State:
30-23, 30-21, 30-26.

The other Wildcats proved to be another
insurmountable matchup. Arizona ran away
with the first game from the start, seizing a
20-21 game one win. Although the second
game was more competitive, with Davidson
trailing 11-10, Arizona stretched its lead and
secured a 30-16 game two victory. Again
outmatched in the third and final game, the
Wildcats fell to Arizona 30-21.

Tueday’s match against Winthrop was
dejavu. The Wildcats lost the first game 30-
28. Davidson lost the second game by a
wider margin, 30-23. The third game proved
competitive with the score tied 22-22, but
Winthrop stormed ahead capitalizing on
sloppy play to finish the sweep 30-22.

The Wildcats will play Western Carolina
next Saturday.

Sanker sets 5K record

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

Both female and male cross country teams
left their mark on the Winthrop Invitational

on Saturday in Rock Hill. The women’s
team, led by Caroline Sanker ’09, left the
invitational with a first place result, while the
men’s team finished fourth overall led by
Sam Morris 08.

Sanker set a new school record with a
blazing time of 17:12 in the SK women’s
race, beating her time from last year’s third
place finish by 1:16.

Finishing eight seconds behind Sanker
with a time of 17:20 was Brenna Burns ’08,
last year’s Winthrop Invitational winner.
Like Sanker, she also broke the old school
record of 17:39.22 that she set at the 2006
Southern Conference Championship.

Two other Wildcat women, Annie
O’ Donnell ’08 and Lauren Childs ‘11 fought
their way into the top ten overall with times
of 18:26 and 18:44.

Just outside of the top ten, Megal Atias ’11
finished with a time of 19:05 in 11th place
overall and Sarah Cline ’11 finished just
behind Atias with a 12th place time of 19:11.

On the men’s side, Morris scored an eighth
place finish with a team-best time of 26:32 in
the 8K men’s race. He improved upon last
year’s time by 36 seconds and leapfrogged
eight places from last year’s finish as a
result.

Thad Sieracki 09, Charlie Schmitt ’11 and
ureg Marcil "11 all finished in the top 30,
placing 23rd, 25th and 27th respectively.

Despite the eighth place finish, confidence
remains high among the men.

“T think the team will rebound from its
injuries,” Alex Hoyt ’09 said.

“T think Tom Divinnie.’10 will race this
season. I think he will run the last mile of the
conference meet in under 5 minutes, and I
think he will qualify for the Beijing
Olympics,” he continued in jest.

Both teams hope to build on their strong
performances at their next races. For the
men, their next meet will be at The Citadel
Invitational in South Carolina on September
29. The women will run on the same day at
the Tiger Invitational at Auburn

record for the 5K with a time of 17:12.

KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL !

Jackson for Mayor

November 6

