q Tor DAVIDSONIAN. .

rN Wednesday, Dec. 5 from 7-10 p.m.,
ummit Coffee will host a. holiday, party:
or the purposes ‘of ‘general merriment and

’s Hos ital

ours of building access for all students:
ights On Davidson began Monday, Dee.
/and will continue until the morning of
Thursday, Dec.20.
During this time, all students will have
24/7 CatCard access to Chambers,

= In addition to the book:signing, Summit
Coffee will kickoff a two-week toy drive. |
A group of Summit employees will be
making the trip to LCH in late December «
to play Santa Claus, give gifts and read

~ books to the young hospital patients. Gifts
of all types and sizes are encouraged (ages
8-14). Come on out, relax, enjoy a fine
“beverage and support a good cause.
<The event is the latest in an ongoing
series. of fundraising events held at
Summit Coffee, <2:  s
»-In January -2007, Summit. announced classes will. be. meeting, the Building
the formation of SummitCares, a branch Services na ee crew Starts 7 at about
of Summit Coffee which raises money for“ 5:00 am.
a. variety of local charities. Summit hosts 2°. Anything left i in a room after 5:00 a.m.
one SummitCares Party each month with 2 a
- designated charity in mind. ~

ings will have-24/7 access to those build-
ings during Lights On Davidson.

» to be used for entertainment purposes.

“Classrooms are to be shared by all and
are not for the exclusive use of a single
person or small group. Signs stating ‘in
use” are not permitted.

-. and Found.

11/24/2007 1:36 a.m. Unlocked Door

DCPC

While conducting a zone check at the Presbyterian Church, Officer found that the
front and side doors were unlocked. Officer was not able to secure the building. There
were four doors total found unlocked and two other doors that if pulled hard enough,
' would break the metal pin holding the tops of those two doors. Officer did not pull on
| doors for fear of breaking them.

11/28/2007 6:24 p.m. Burning Chicken Jamison

Officer observed Davidson Fire at Jamison Dorm. Upon arrival Officer spoke with
Davidson student, who stated that she was checking on her chicken in the oven when
the fire alarm sounded. Davidson Fire checked the building and reported that there was

no damage to the area.

11/30/2007 ° 12:16 a.m. Suspicious Person Little Library
Officer was contacted in reference to a black male hiding in the bushes in front of the

Little Library. Officer checked the area, but was unable to locate the subject.

11/30/2007 9:56 a.m. Scooter Incident Student Health Center

Officer received a call that a minor accident had occurred at the Student Health
Center parking area. Upon arrival, reporting officer met Physical Plant employee, who
stated that she had been operating the maintenance scooter involved in the
accident. The employee explained that after parking the scooter, it rolled forward
approximately 30 feet striking a parked, 2004 green Honda Accord. The scooter caused
numerous scuffmarks on the passenger side and rear bumper. The vehicle’s owner was
also on the scene. The Physical Plant employee believes the parking brake failed, caus-
ing the scooter to role into the vehicle. Reporting officer estimated the Honda Accord s

damage at $400.00.

NEws

x Students. who currently have late night ;
CatCard access-to other academic build- ..

All audio visual equipment in class-.,
rooms is for academie use only and is not.

On exam days and on any days. when ~

. will have to be removed a and sent to Lost.

ve

Academic, from page I

lack of faculty,” Martin said. When profes-
sors switched from teaching six classes to
five, it became more difficult to allocate one
of their classes to this.concentration.

Martin also explained another faculty con-
cern that has thwarted the success of prior
proposals.

“How do you define [the environmental
studies concentration]? There has been no
cohesive consensus on the faculty,” Martin
said. Ingram also cited “interdisciplinary
squabbles” among the faculty as a contribut-
ing factor to the proposals previous failures.

Martin explained the content of the final
draft of the concentration, which a six-mem-
ber committee drafted.

The concentration would contain six
courses, one of which would be a required
“Introduction to Environmental Studies”
class already offered through the Center for
Interdisciplinary Studies.

The concentration would also require one
natural science course, one social science
course, one humanities course, and one cap-
stone course.

The concentration went before the
Educational Policy Committee (EPC), which
approves all new courses. Martin explained
that this is where all other prior proposals
have failed. However, for the first time last
week, the committee passed the proposal.

“Tf [the concentration] passes this academ-
ic year, it will be in working order for next
fall. [Dean of Faculty Clark Ross] wants this
to happen sooner rather than later,’ Martin

- WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007

said.

Ingram discussed whether an environmen-
tal studies concentration was too specific to
fit with the liberal arts education philosophy.

“The concentration could be perceived by
some as too narrow, but without it, aren’t you
forcing kids into graduate school who want
to go into this field? This is the only concen-
tration that requires courses from all three
disciplines of the College,” Ingram said,
pointing out that the proposal complements
the liberal arts education philosophy.

Ingram also said that the College is in the
midst of a “running search” for a professor
with an environmental studies emphasis. The
new professor will be made possible with the
help of a donor endowment.

“We’re hoping for someone to galvanize
the campus around environmental issues,”
Ingram said.

The Duke Endowment pays for several
three-year critical teaching positions, which
employ part-time professors. It is assumed at
the end of the three years that the College
will assume the professor’s position at its
own cost.

Davidson is currently looking to begin a
three-year teaching session with a professor
who brings a rich knowledge of environmen-
tal studies to the College.

The concentration, which has been
approved by the EPC, goes before the facul-
ty next week for final approval. If approved,
current seniors would be eligible for credit
for the concentration if they have completed
all the other necessary courses and take the
capstone seminar course offered this spring.

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

FROM RIGHT NOW THROUGH DECEMBER 20th,
YOU MAY CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES
WITH DONATIONS OF FOOD
AND/OR

DONATE TO THE NEEDY IN OUR
AREA

Remember, please, we are feeding families.
No single serving/small items. Suggested items:

Canned Fruit

Canned Meats

Soups

Assorted Vegetables
Large boxes of Cereal

Jello’

Large boxes of Pasta
Spaghetti Sauce
Peanut butter

Jelly

HOW: One non-perishable food item will cover up to $1.00 of overdue
fines.
(E.G. For 5 items of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)

