THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE REVERAND NOELLE DAMICO
National Coordinator, PE: ( USA) Campaign for Fai

Every so often we are offered the opportunity to con-
_tribute to a significant. advancement. in human society:
. Davidson, College alumnus.and Burger King CEO John.
_Chidsey, trustee and founder of the: ‘College’s, Chidsey
‘ - Leadership Development program, has been offered such

‘with the. Coalition of: Immokalee” “Workers (CTW). to.
ensure ‘the: human Tights, of farm, worke. j

Burger, : King’s: tomatoes: But, to the, dismay: ‘of. the:

"Presbyterian Church (U Mr. Chidsey and his : com-’
pany have not : only failed to respond but have inexplica-:
_bly sought to undermine these historic advances,

poverty. wages _and, in some instances, labor i in modern:
_day slavery. These deplorable conditions have been doc
mented by the U S. Department, ‘of Labor, Oxfam.
is. The: slavery cases
by’ the / U.S”
“Department ‘of ” “Justi vusing % Vaws- dating / from
: Reconstruction. - The , _CIW. RM “community-based . “farm -
worker organization in southwest Florida, was presented
“the Robert F, Kennedy Human Rights award and received.

mmmendation, from. the FBI. for its ‘ground- breaking
workin combating slavery and engaging corporations
with these issues. In fact, just this week, the CIW was

ceptional accomplishments
Since 2005, the PC, (USA) General Assembly 2 and ¢ con-
gregations across the country have called on Burger King

es, in keeping with Jesus’ ’s proclamation o:

_ Chidsey was asked by a concerned Davidson student
_ whether /his. company was prepared to address. these
‘issues. Sadly, Mr. Chidsey took this opportunity to assail
the CIW’s integrity, to “debunk the myth” of farm work-
_er poverty and to insist that churches need “the facts”
2 explained to them. Any one of these comments alone
« would have been disturbing. Together, they suggest a con-
seious attempt to roll back the first human rights advances
for Florida farm workers in recent history. The CIW has
called on Burger King to pay a penny-per-pound increase
directly to farm workers harvesting tomatoes for its sup-
_ pliers and to establish an enforceable code of conduct in
partnership with the workers, just as McDonald’s and
Yum! Brands. {Taco Bell, KFC, Pizza Hut, Long John,
er’s and A&W Restaurants) are already doing..."
The PC, (USA), which has been at the table for dia-

“Kirkpatrick,” “himself “a. Ny Geir "graduate, ‘wrote to
: Burger. King demanding that the company retract similar,
“comments: made to the press, saying, / ‘We are troubled

.. by. statements supporting the CIW-from the Carter
Center and Yum! Brands itself, Since those demands for-
etraction, Burger King has claimed that no such demands

ttp://ciw-online .org/BK response html.]
Yet, despite that retraction, Mr., Chidsey persists in
aking false statements to defend his company’s inae-
on. During ‘his ‘lecture, :Mr...Chidsey- indicated that
avidson’ s Honor Code shaped his own leadership deci-
_ sions. ; Be

College literature explains, “Far from being mere pen-

-and-ink statements, the Codes are a declaration by, the:

entire. college community-students, faculty, staff and
alumni-that the honorable course: is the most just and
therefore the best.”

The honorable thing for Mr. Chidsey would be tc

immediately retract his harmful statement about the CTW

and begin respectful dialogue toward a just agreement.

with the farm workers. The farm workers, as well as the
Davidson community, deserve nothing less.

_an opportunity: to join other fast-food leaders i in working «

Farm workers . harvesting tomatoes. n. Florida, earn.

honored with the Anti- -Slavery International award for its:,

to work with the CIW to address these human rights abus--
“good news to:
: the poor.” [To learn more visit www.pcusas.org/fairfood.]

»» During his Oet.’3 Leadership Development lecture, Mr.

logues lea ing to those. agreements, verifies that the CIW..
has neve! demanded that the.increase be’ paid. either:
through or to the CIW. And yet in his Oct3 address Mr,
Chidsey remarked, ‘The union ‘said the money has to go

that’ you have seen fit to try to damage the credibility and_

ecord of integrity ‘and good. working relationships with,
: other corporations.” The P.C/{USA)’s call was augment-,

vere _ever_ made. [Readers. may, : find ‘all “statements -at

PE RSPE CTIVES WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007 9

In the Oct.24 issue of The
Davidsonian, the paper’s editors
and my fellow columnist Ashley
Semble took to the pages of the
Perspectives Section urging the
Davidson community to become
more environmentally friendly
and applauding the measures that
1 we've already taken.

They ‘cited the success of the
eco co-op and green initiatives on
; 7 other college campuses while

Zeke" y EBS FAY exhorting us to do our part to
‘reduce our own impact on the
environment. These are all noble sentiments, to be sure, but
they represent an approach to Global Warming that isn’t up
to the task. Climate Change is far too big and too complex
an issue to be solved by individual acts of environmental
virtue; it will take national and international political action
to deal with the problem.

One of the reasons that individual responses aren’t up to
the task is that it is practically impossible for individuals to
figure out the carbon emissions associated with all, or even
most of, their lives. Carbon emission is so pervasive in our
economy that it is practically impossible for someone to
determine exactly what their carbon footprint is. It is there-
fore next to impossible for someone to voluntarily reduce
their reductions in an effective way. With a national carbon
tax or cap-and-trade system, this problem disappears. If the
production of a particular good requires a lot of carbon, it
will become more expensive than a more efficient alterna-
tive; if a company can offer a service or product with a
smaller carbon footprint than its competitors, that company
will prosper and make more of its efficient product.
Individuals will not need to trace their carbon usage up the
supply chain to figure out how best to save the planet.

The more compelling reason, however, is that there are
many, many people and institutions that will never change
their habits through environmental moral-suasion—nor

the webster doctrine

Fighting climate change requires more

should they be expected to. Corporations are legally obliged
to produce a profit for their shareholders; Americans close to
or in poverty are not about to buy more expensive cars and
appliances or go without air conditioning because they were
asked to by Al Gore. China, India and other developing
nations are even less likely to take drastic action on their
own. This kind of moralistic carbon reduction is reserved for
the well-off. Unless everyone else makes similar changes,
we will never make the kind of emissions reductions that are
necesarry to keep the problem manageable.

Rather than sermons and individual demonstrations of
environmental friendliness, we need to change our institu-
tions so that those groups will participate in the solution.
First.off, this means either a substantial carbon tax or an auc-
tioned cap-and-trade regime. Both of these measures attach
a price to carbon and then let the market work its magic. A
cap-and-trade system was effective in reducing acid rain in
Appalachia; it should be effective on a larger scale.

Second, a large investment towards alternative energy
sources research, probably funded by the revenue from the |
carbon tax or carbon credit auction, will eventually provide
us with the technological means to solve the problem using
technologies that. can be shared with developing countries.
This is the kind of action that will make the kind of changes
we need: a large-scale institutional solution that can only be
reached through the political process.

So, by all means, live in the eco co-op, recycle, turn down
the thermostat— whatever. The environment is extremely
important, and these things help, but keep it in perspective.
No matter how many cans you recycle, no matter how much
gas you might save, it is only a tiny part of the larger prob-
lem. The only way to really fight climate change is to push
national policies, and the only way to do that is through
national politics. In the end, voting and political activism
will do more for the planet than all of the campus initiatives
in the world.

Zeke Webster '09 is a Political Science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

Community bikes not all they’re cracked up to be

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

A few weeks ago, Davidson students and affiliates greeted
the much-anticipated seasonal return of the community bikes
with a hum of excitement and nostalgia for the College’s
quaint tradition.

Always an anticipated event, the campus would not be
complete without these gleaming yellow idols of transporta-
tion propped up on the sidewalk, potential energy ready to
aid us in our hour of need.

Whether we grab one with two minutes to spare or merely
enjoy pedaling like a maniac just to coast down the hill, I
would venture to say nearly all of us have utilized these bi-
wheeled bouts of fun and frolic.

All except one of us, for sure.

Coming a semester late last year, it took me about halfway
into the spring term to realize that the yellow bikes around
campus were available to students, probably because no one
really enjoys pedaling up the hill, and leave most bikes to
dwell around the Court. By the time I learned about their
existences, I was too accustomed to my advantageous
Davidson-centric Base Belk (shout out to the ladies!) loca-
tion to care. Until this year.

Living down the hill, after approximately the first hour on
campus, I realized that a bike would be nice, nay, imperative,
to make my life easier. At this point I began to anticipate the
bikes’ debut. For the first few weeks, I roughed it around
campus, walking between classes and the Union, Commons
and Main Street, aloyal member of Davidson’s infantry.

Then the day dawned when I saw them. Cerebral flood-
gates opened as scenarios of possibility sped fourth like
Lance in the Tour de France. Tired of walking back to my
room? Grab,a bike! Want to sleep longer before class? I can
make up the minutes. The walk to Chambers becoming a
beast? At least half the trip can exceed two miles per hour.

In all my excitement, what I did not take into account was
something so fundamental, so biologically embarrassing, I
would refuse to admit this had I not a dearth of shame.

One morning a few days after the bikes’ release, I walked
out of my dorm and encountered a bike sitting in front of me.
Wasting no time, I walked up to it. But as I swung a leg
around, suddenly the bike began tottering on its flimsy rest
and I fought to regain balance. Then trying to stretch one
foot to reach the pedal, I realized, to my complete horror, that
my legs were too short. I am too short. The bike is too big.

Completely oblivious to inquisitive onlookers, I dismount-
ed and repeated the actions of this unfortunate misfit, bike
still threatening to topple and take me with it. I tried to lower

the seat, but it was secured too high.

I tried to grab onto the handlebars for stability, but crest-
fallen, this only confirmed that now my arms are too short to
use them.

This apoptotic realization made me question how these
bikes were designed: supposedly for the community. Now,
one would generally assume that if the average person in the
community of Davidson wanted to use a bike, they could.
The bikes were created for the average person. I’m not a
towering individual by any means, but I am no hobbit either.
So standing at 5 feet 3 inches, short arms akimbo, I have to
ask — for whom are they made? Am I really such an anom-
aly of vertical stature? Why haven’t these awkward bikes
been made with people who are 5 feet 3 (or shorter) in mind?

Now when I pass the monstrous bikes propped along the
sidewalk, handlebars mockingly turned and beckoning me to
reattempt a ride, I am reminded of the irony of the ubiqui-
tous community bike: available to all but only proportional-
ly so. And unless I revert back to the third grade to drink
milk in the hope of sprouting four inches, I seriously doubt
that yellow bike rides are in my immediate future.

It is unfortunate, because these bikes have so much to
offer students. But what use are the bikes if you can’t even
reach their pedals?

In addition, I can’t recall the number of times I have seen
these bikes abandoned with chains hanging off their tracks
and handle bars cocked at unnatural angles. Several people
have reported the bikes completely giving out mid-ride. In
short (yes, I just did), the bikes are wonderful in concept but
lack practicality for the average commuter.

So for those of you can use these bikes, my sincerest con-
gratulations. Not only do you officially pass the height
requirement, but you enjoy one of the most whimsical tradi-
tions of our school. In the meantime, I will stick to riding the
stationary bike in the weight room and walking to my eight-
thirty.

Jennifer Errington is a Classics major from Charlotte,
N. C. Contact her at jeerrington@ davidson. edu.

The author of the article titled “Free Speech Board” on
‘page 1 of the Noy, Ti issue of The Davidsonian i is Katherine,

a The picture accompanying Zeke Webster's. article from
the Nov.’'7 issue of “The Davidsonian””’ was actually
Professor of N Math Sarah Mason. See him above. 5

BER ti

