2 THE DAVIDSONIAN
ee ee

Journey, from page 1

SGA Vice-President, Davis Greene ’09,
believes “you can’t support something with-
out showing some action...It’s important
we’re here together.”

The bus pulled into Jena, Louisiana
around 7 a.m. on Thursday.

The Davidson group, adorned in black
shirts as a sign of protest, joined an already
forming crowd of black-shirted demonstra-
tors as they marched throughout the town.

The closed shops and buildings were silent
in comparison to the fervor of the crowd,
which alternated between decries of “No
Justice, No Peace!” and “Free Mychal Bell!”

A motorcade of Buffalo Soldiers passed
through the streets, NAACP chapters from
around the country bore signs of protest
while marching and protestors carried flags
of the Afro-American movement.

Tanya Chanh 711 said, “It was empower-
ing to be in a huge group like that, and real-
ly touching to see so many people from
across the world of different races, with the
same belief and morals.”

At the Jena High School, the tree where
three nooses had been found was cut down
and covered in a mound of dirt.

Atop the mound, protestors hurled com-
ments like “if she can’t use your mom’s
comb, don’t bring her home” towards the
audience.

Throughout the march, several protestors
directed racist comments towards whites.

x
¢
:.

Fd =

Thankfully, the Jena courthouse rekindled
the spirit of the day, with speakers ranging
from the Black Panthers to C. Ray Nagin,
Mayor of New Orleans.

Reverend Jesse Jackson called for the
immediate release of Mychal Bell and the
other Jena Six members. Jackson spoke of
the disparity between the racial proportions
of those in jail compared to the population at

large. After Jackson’s speech, the group left

Jena and returned to Davidson.

“To sweat with these people that
are sweating, and to cry with these
people that are crying, nothing can
replace that.”

--Rachel Winston ’10

For Rachel Winston ’10 the trip was
“about being in the center of the action. To
sweat with these people that are swearing
and to cry with these people that are crying,
nothing can replace that.”

Scott maintains the importance of stu-
dents’ continuing participation in efforts like
this because “the Civil Rights Movement
may have started in the church, but it’s up to
the students to carry it forward.”

Ashley Mincey "11 felt that “it was a per-
sonal responsibility to be proactive in the
fight against injustice. We’ve moved beyond
a theme of black versus white and now it’s
just right versus wrong.”

09/17 11:46 a.m. Property Damage Hobart Park

L

A concerned grounds supervisor reported that a large tree in Hobart Park had been
vandalized. He advised that someone had used black spray paint to draw a face on the
tree. Officers responded, took pictures of the face and determined that it was not gang-
related. The surrounding area was searched but no other damage was found. The
supervisor was notified once the scene was cleared, and the face was subsequently
covered.

09/17 11:36 p.m. Crime Prevention Dorms

Officer conducted foot patrol through the following dorms: Little, Watts and Belk.
During the patrol the officer spoke with students on Ist Little, watched football with
lst Watts and talked with students on 2nd Belk.

09/19 1:47am. Entrapped Student Martin Court—Jamison

Officer received a call advising that a student was unable to exit his room. On
arrival, the officer determined that the doorknob was broken. The officer talked the
student through the process of removing the pins from the door hinges, then contact-
ed after hours maintenance. No one was injured, and the door was undamaged.

09/21 10:49 p.m. Intoxicated Pedestrian, the First Amendment Belk Dorm

Officers were dispatched to Belk Dormitory for possible alcohol poisoning. Upon
arrival, officers spoke with the subject of alleged alcohol poisoning, who advised that
he had been drinking and had gotten sick. Medics arrived on the scene, and the sub-
ject stated that he knew his rights and refused to go to the hospital. The intoxicated
subject was informed that he was not allowed to refuse transport to the hospital due
to his intoxicated state. The subject restated that he knew his First Amendment rights
and advised the officers and medics that he would resist if they tried to use force. The
medics and officers attempted to assist the student onto the stretcher. The student
repeatedly attempted to remove straps that held him on the stretcher. The medic per-
sonnel advised him that if he kept trying to take the straps off, they would tie his hands
down. The subject did not listen and took the straps off again. The medics then tied
his hands to the stretcher. The student was safely transported to Lake Norman
Regional Medical Center in his own “best interest.”

09/24 11:22am. Hay Damage Dorms

Officer was advised of several instances In which someone had used bales of hay
to litter several dorms including Belk, Duke, Little and Richardson. Perpetrators took
the bales of hay and spread them throughout the hallways, entrances and stairwells of
the dorms and areas of international studies In Duke Dormitory. Perpetrators are still
at large.

09/24 2:36 p.m. Drug Solicitation Ridge Road

Officer received a call from a concerned student that a green Ford Explorer had
stopped him on Ridge Rd., and one of the subjects asked him if he would like to buy
some marijuana. Student advised the officer of the car’s license plate. Approximately
five minutes later, officer received another call from a complainant advising that a
group of people were attempting to sell marijuana from the steps in front of Cannon
Dormitory. Officer made contact with the subjects at this location. Having found no
buyers, the subjects were escorted from College property and their vehicle was
searched.

Alm
Town Hall, traveled by bus to Louisiana last Thursday.

EFC sponsers affordable

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Davidson students, some of which are pictured here in front of the Jena

REPO OUrtesy of Austin Bell

housing panel to kick off year

By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

‘ Engage for Change (EFC) sponsored a
panel discussion on affordable housing
issues in the Davidson community and the
Charlotte area at large last night.

Panelists included Liz Clasen of the Urban
Ministry Center in Charlotte, Chris Estes of
the North Carolina Housing Coalition,
Marcia Webster of the Davidson Housing
Coalition and Cindy Reid, who serves as the
Affordable Housing Coordinator for the
Town of Davidson.

According to the US Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD),

“affordable housing is housing that costs its

occupant (owner or renter) no more than
30% of their gross monthly household
income.”

People who fall under this category
include those at a great risk for losing their
home in the case of a financial crisis and
those who have no income or housing situa-
tion.

“Just because people don’t have income
doesn’t mean they don’t deserve the dignity
of a home,” Clasen said.

Davidson has a unique affordable housing
plan that includes a land trust ordinance,
which means that the Town of Davidson
owns all of the land under any home that it
sells.

a

According to Marcia Webster, this serves a
dual purpose: “[Owning the land] allows us
to protect the affordability of property in
Davidson, and it takes out the value of the
land from the sale price, which is a great help
for first time buyers.”

Reid explained another unique tenet of
Davidson’s affordable housing ordinance,
which requires developers to make 12.5 per-
cent of whatever units they build affordable
(as determined by the area’s median house-
hold income).

When asked what students could do to
help give this advocacy project momentum,
each panelist emphasized the power of the
vote. Reid and Webster also urged Davidson
students to explore opportunities to educate
themselves and their peers on this local
hotbed issue through the Davidson Housing
Coalition.

“Get involved and really understand the
challenges that lower income people face,”
Estes urged his listeners.

EFC conducted the panel discussion to
bring students up-to-date on an issue that
they hope to study thoroughly throughout the
year.

“We really wanted to foster dialogue ‘and
get students involved in issues of housing.
We’re not only concerned with affordable
housing but also transitional housing and
safe housing,” Amy Killian ’08, a member of
EFC’s steering committee, said.

PL ot G1Te.
Plegaaain.

