Applause to Changing: Minds for trying to make mental
_ health a focus of campus discussion. It seems that the stig-
"ma surrounding mental health issues is decreasing, and

_fumbers are up at the Student. Counseling Center.
‘Whether this means that more people are confronting their.
_ Struggles or that the stress is simply breaking more of us.
_Yemains a matter of speculation, however. And the recent.
mental health panel’. was °a.disappointment, While
_ Changing Minds had a great idea, the Counseling Center
_ Yepresentatives on the panel made assertions about mental

- health at Davidson compared to that at other schools based
_ on anecdotal evidence and statistics that remain uncited..
Shoddy academic work, that. Also, a. didn’t say any>
thing useful. os

Duke Dormitory: B

t's big and looks like a hotel. It's also environmentally~
friendly, But. the: heating and air conditioning system. is,
still | wonky and the fact that the Dean Rusk: offices impede.
the most direct route to some. people’s rooms-is a major,
pain.: Overall, though, The. Davidsonian. wonders why
Duke turns into a palace over the summer: while the. furni-
ture in Richardson is still bolted to the floor and ‘more.
roaches than people live in the sophomore apartments:

We've: hit ‘some. high, point ‘this Semester: campus
nvolyement with Jena, ‘high tickets. ales for basketball
games,” But- we! ve also: hit ‘some’ low. points:. any -time

meone uses a racial slur, the scattering of hay through

The Z Dabibsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LUBE ORTA LIBERTAS So

Editor-in-Chief.
#“Sammerlee Walter

Managing Editor
* Pierce Trumbo
a, News Editors

‘, “<= Sports Editors
“will Bryan & Patrick McArdlé
Photography Editor”
Ben Elinor ’
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

’ The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic ye
; by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please.
"address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O, Box 7182,:
Davidson, NC 28035-7182, Phone (704) 894-2148. -

_,E«mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu, Our offices are located in

2 Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in’)
_ letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily refleet the
: _ Views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions:

* LETTERS TO

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 10, 2007

THE Epitor

DesPain oversimplifies terrorism, Islamic diversity

Bobby DesPain’s column last week, entitled
“Ahmadinejad’s Columbia appearance unacceptable,” pre-
sented a rather frustrating stance on both the topic of charac-
ter assessment and the nature of terrorism. Mr. DesPain’s
perspective does not exist in isolation but rather demon-

strates symptoms of a much larger problem regarding.

American perceptions of Islamic militant groups in the
Middle East.

Mr. DesPain, in criticizing both Columbia University and
Ahmadinejad, levies a broad range of indictments. He accus-
es Iran’s President of “torture, murder and hate,” implies that
he engages in “genocide” and accuses Mr. Ahmadinejad of
being “at best, a terrorist.”

I do not mean to imply in any sense that I support or
defend Mr. Ahmadinejad. I find his anti-Western sentiments
and denial of the Holocaust disturbing and his crackdown on
free speech and assembly disheartening.

However, one must be careful when applying such heavy
charges as genocide and murder. These are not accusations
that one simply tosses about without evidentiary support.
While no one would proclaim Ahmadinejad a champion of
human rights, no charge of genocide hasbeen brought against
him.

The most troubling aspect of Mr. DesPain’s article lies in
his declaration: “In no way do we need to understand terror-
ists before we can act. We do not need to identify with ter-
rorists’ grievances,” before opposing them. Mr. DesPain also
writes, “It is never necessary to understand a man before
condemning him.” One must not oversimplify the nature of
terrorism by making such broad, sweeping generalizations.
Such statements advocate the dangerous assumption that all
terrorists act with a universal cause and in a universal man-
ner.

Nothing could be further from the truth. Rather, terrorism
is a device—not an ideology. In presuming the existence a
unified militant Islamic identity, one falls subject to
Orientalism. Edward Said defines the term in his book
“Orientalism” as a mode of thinking that assumes a unified
Islamist identity and does not account for the dramatic dif-
ferences between nations, ethnicities or religious sects.

Much of the conflict in which the United States currently
finds itself embroiled revolves around such political and cul-
tural subtleties.

The predominantly Shi’ia Muslim group Hezbollah, which
Iran supports, clashes with the exclusively Sunni group Al
Qaeda. Al Qaeda claims its mission depends upon the purifi-
cation of Islam through eradication of Shi’ites. The funda-
mental actions and beliefs of these groups and others like
them, such as Hamas in Palestine, diverge completely.

Understanding these subtleties and differences is not only
preferable, it is essential. It is imperative that those determin-
ing U.S. foreign policy in the greater Middle East consider
such factors before acting.

Unfortunately, the problem of generalization reaches far
beyond the pages of The Davidsonian. Jeff Stein, the foreign
affairs correspondent for the “Congressional Quarterly”
magazine asked prominent Democrats and Republicans
Congressmen simple questions about Islamic extremism.
Sample questions included “What is the difference between
Sunni and Shi’ia Muslims? Is Al Qaeda Sunni or Shi’ ite?
What about Hezbollah?” Stein’s questions were almost uni-
versally met with either incorrect answers or admittance of
ignorance.

I implore Americans to insist that we do better. I implore
Mr. DesPain to recognize the importance of evaluating a
larger context before action. Lastly, I implore him to recog-
nize that merely shooting first and asking questions later
does not help to achieve the goals of preventing terrorism.

David Stroup ‘

Th Davidsonian welcome letters

Bush opposes children’s health insurance

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Columnist

President Bush faced a bit of a dilemma over the last few
months.He was forced to explain why he opposed expand-
ing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP),
which provides health insurance to children whose families
can’t afford it but aren’t poor enough to qualify for
Medicaid. Seeing as there are still nine million uninsured
children in the U.S., Democrats and some moderate
Republicans are sensibly pushing to expand the program,
which could be funded by increased taxes on cigarettes. The
President disagrees.

Oddly enough, Bush has discovered it is hard to argue
against this program; one tends to look a bit callous when
one asserts that free market ideology matters more than pro-
viding millions of sick children with medical care. The
President hit upon a few arguments that didn’t exactly help
his case, such as pointing out that these millions of unin-
sured children can just go to the emergency room when they.
get sick. But one of his arguments does make a lot of sense
in a roundabout way.

He argued that SCHIP is just one step on the road to the
evils of socialized medicine. This is true — but only because
“socialized medicine” is cheaper and better than the pseudo-
free market monstrosity that most Americans use. If the
government starts insuring poor children, people might
notice that this system works better. Our President just can’t
have that happen.

In fact, parts of our country already have such programs
in place. Medicare, a massive example of single-payer,
European style health care, provides health insurance to the
elderly and is overwhelmingly popular.

Not only do senior citizens like their government-pur-
chased health care, but Medicare’s costs are expanding more
slowly than in the private sector. The Veteran’s
Administration, which provides health care to U.S. veterans,
is a full-blown socialized system. Any conservative worth
his or her salt can tell you that a socialized system will be
inefficient, ineffective and astoundingly expensive— but any
conservative worth his or her salt would be completely

wrong. According to the Annals of Internal Medicine, the
New England Journal of Medicine, the National Committee
for Quality Assurance and 87% of the veterans enrolled in
the program, the VA provides better care and spends less than
any private health care system in the U.S.

This is largely because the VA is centralized and retains its

patients for the rest of their lives, which allows administra-.

tive cost-savings and incentives toward preventative care,
both of which do not and cannot exist in a private system. It
is politically unthinkable to roll back these programs. Once
people get.access to single-payer health care, they don’t look
back.

If this is “Compassionate
Conservatism,” I’d rather not see
the callous version.

In Europe, every country has some kind of universal gov-
ernment-provided health care; they all produce results com-
parable to the United States’ system and cover all of their cit-
izens for nearly half the cost of the United States’ system.
Even hard-right politicians in Britain or France don’t chal-
lenge the existence of full-blown universal health care
because of its overwhelming popularity.

This is precisely Bush’s problem. The conservative argu-
ment against universal health care depends upon fostering a
somewhat irrational fear of socialized medicine. The risk is
that when Americans actually experience it, it might work,
and they might ask for more.

Of course, most people wouldn’t consider that a problem;
but then again, most people aren’t free-market ideologues
and don’t rely on their health insurance company’s money
for their re-election campaigns. For our president, however,
stopping creeping socialism is very important—more impor-
tant than the lives and welfare of poor children. If this is
“Compassionate Conservatism,” I’d rather not see the cal-
lous version.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a Political Science -major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.
