THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Health advisor panel talks
mental health and disorders

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

How does Davidson check out on a mental
health exam?

That is the question that four advisors
from the health center attempted to answer in
the Changing Minds kickoff event last night
in the Sprinkle Room.

Evan Kreutzer ’08 and Stuart Knight 08,
two health advisors, along with David
Staton, director of the Counseling Center
and a licensed psychologist, and Nance
Longworth, a counselor at the center, made
up the panel that answered questions about
anxiety disorders, learning disabilities, stress
and eating disorders at Davidson.

The counseling center has existed on cam-
pus since 1991, and, Knight said, “A lot of
students are taking advantage of the opportu-
nity.”

“By and large,” Staton said, “I think com-
pared to students at other colleges, we fair
very well. But that does not afford immuni-
ties [to mental problems].”

There are, he said, characteristics at
Davidson that can make the mental atmos-
phere somewhat dangerous.

“You do live in a high stress environ-
ment,” Longworth said.

Students here are used to being extremely
successful academically, and that can have
positive and negative effects.

“One thing that I see,” Knight said, ievery-
one comes in never having experienced fail-
ure. Academically, we are strong, and you
need to realize you are not a failure if you’re
not as strong in every other aspect of your
life.”

“There’s a difficulty in balancing,”
Kreutzer added. “I’ve done better in classes
because I’ve made time to just have fun.”

One question that the panel debated was
the role of the faculty in student mental
health. Staton said that there has been a task
force to facilitate a better discourse and coor-
dination between the social organizations
and the academic organizations on campus.

Students then spoke up about the differ-
ence between people whining about how
much work they have and actually having an
insupportable workload.

“We are not living because we’re study-
ing,” Nora Goldberger ’08 said.

The faculty at Davidson is good at work-
ing with the counseling center on an individ-
ual basis, Staton said, but as a collective
body, it is less willing.

Faculty now, however, as opposed to pro-
fessors from earlier generations, “is more
open to the idea of [students] needing sup-
port [from the counseling center],” he said.

The panel then asked attendees whether
there is a way to create a mentality that stu-
dents, especially in their first year, do not
have to be involved in everything on cam-

Pulitzer Prize-win

“There are positive sides,” Staton said,
ibut sometimes students push themselves too
far.”

Overall, students at the discussion were
unwilling to give up their extracurricular
activities in order to have more free time.
They believed that learning to balance your
time is a necessary learning device, and
sometimes you have to learn the hard way.

“J think we have a fair amount of difficul-
ty with depression, with anxiety issues,f
Staton said. “Up and coming are eating dis-
orders.”

The number of students with eating disor-
ders is up, according to the health center, and
this problem is usually related to achieve-
ment and perfectionism.

“Tt is really easy to quantify,” Staton said,
“with pants’ size, dress size, how much you
weigh on a scale.”

Eating disorders can also be contagious on
dormitory halls, and the counselors warned
against attempting to stay in control of one’s
life so much that it ends up controlling them.

Ten percent of the eating disorders occur
in male students, who more often display a
disordered eating that is less related to body
image.

“They are occasionally present at the
counseling center,” he said, although they

have not been able to get a male student to

speak to a group about his experiences, prob-
ably because of the stigma attached to the
disorder.

He believes that many of these problems
stem from family issues and relationships.
Importantly, the role of parents has been
changing drastically. “Helicopter parents”
who hover over their children, ironically
cause more pressure and stress than help.

“What I think parents need to do is be sup-
portive, not protective,” he said. Parents call
professors about papers and tests and have
even called the counseling center to inquire
about private sessions.

“Over the course of the decade, we’ve
observed that more people are arriving at
campus having had contact with other men-
tal health professionals before,” Staton said.

“At the counseling center, the numbers of
people with serious depression or serious
anxiety problems are larger [than in the
past],” he added.

Each Davidson student can take up to 10
sessions a year with a counselor, although
more can be provided if necessary, and they
are all free of charge. A private psychologist
also visits occasionally, though this service is
not free.

In addition, there are five student health
advisors that can be called upon for ques-
tions about both physical and mental health.

“You don’t have to have a major problem
to come to the center,” Longworth said.
iDevelopmental issues are great issues while
you’re in college to throw out to a coun-
selor.”

ning author opens

Bank of America Lecture Series

By NinA Mace
Staff Writer

Students, faculty and community members |
welcomed Pulitzer Prize-winning author
Samantha Power to the Duke Family
Performance Hall for the first of four Bank
of America lectures last Wednesday.

Her lecture, entitled “The Values that Can
Fix American Foreign Policy,” reflected the
series’ theme: “Principles, Power and the
Future of American Leadership.”

A high level of student excitement preced-
ed Power’s lecture. According to Director of
Dean Rusk and Professor of Political
Science Chris Alexander, Power is the only
lecturer in the series whom students request-
ed by name.

“T think people were excited to spend time
with someone who is smart, articulate, pas-
sionate in her commitments, and willing to
climb down from her comfortable perches at
Harvard and Time magazine to get involved
in the political process,” said Alexander.

Power lived up to the expectations. The
audience received her with a standing ova-
tion and asked more questions than she had
time to answer.

The author began her lecture with some
humor: “This is a very big podium. I feel like
Oliver Wendell Holmes or Hemingway or
something.”

Despite the levity, Power posed a serious
question: “How can America lead again, and
what should the principles of leadership be?”

See Lecture, page 5

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007 3
——~ a

SGA “Real Talks” during
meeting in Union Atrium

By Kare GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

SGA held an open meeting in the Union
Atrium last Thursday. At the meeting, SGA
committee chairs introduced themselves, and
SGA Vice President Davis Greene ’09 pre-
sented the ballot for the Real Talk Project.

The meeting began with the swearing-in
of newly-elected senators, and Activities Tax
Council (ATC) chair Will DeLoache ’09
asked for the approval of newly appointed
ATC members. He also said that the ATC
would finish fall allocations on Monday in
order to have them ready for Thursday’s
SGA meeting.

The committee chairs gave brief descrip-
tions of their roles on campus. Darrell Scott
"10 «said his SGA _ External Affairs
Committee focuses on communication with
other schools and the Town of Davidson. It
hopes to work closely with Engage for
Change this year. According to head of the

SGA Finance and Budget Committee Arthur.

Etchells ’08, his committee provides the
administration with SGA’s opinion on fund-
ing and the budget.

Although the Building and Grounds
Committee does not influence renovation
decisions, Katie Hunter ’08, chair, said it
does advocate for environmental issues, like
recycling bins on campus and more outdoor
study spaces. Rivka Therjirika ’09 introduced
her Charters and Bylaws Committee as the
first stop for new student organizations seek-
ing funding from the ATC.

Student Life Chair Robert Lassiter ’09
said that his committee works with Campus
Safety on the blue light stations and boxes
located in darker areas of campus. Other stu-
dent life concerns include deciding what to
do with the vacated spaces in former laundry
areas and how to handle kitchen spaces in
dorms. According to Auxiliary Services
Chair Brandon Davenport ’09, extending
CatCard use off-campus is his committee’s
major concern this year.

Other committee chairs who introduced
themselves included Admissions and
Financial Aid Chair Andrew Gorang ’09 and
Athletics Chair Mordecai Scott °10.
Academic Policy Chair Whitney White ’08
was not present at the meeting.

“SGA’s taking an initiative to make sure
your voice is the complete source of every-

thing we’re doing,” SGA President Chris
Burton ’08 said, so SGA will meet in the
Union atrium once a month.

“We want to be sure we’re becoming a
more encompassing organization,” Burton
said. According to him, SGA’s support for
the trip to Jena, Louisiana two weeks ago
shows that SGA is working toward this goal.

Forty-six students and community mem-
bers traveled to Jena in what Burton said was
an example of a “national issue finding its
way through the Davidson bubble.”

Jessica Givens ’10 and Darrell Scott spoke
briefly about the trip.

“We’re [Davidson students] known for
being these hard workers,” Scott said. “We
have to get to a point where we stop com-
plaining about work and start complaining
about what’s going on in the world.”

Scott and Givens encouraged students to
watch the documentary of the trip, which
premiered last night in Duke Family
Performance Hall.

“SGA vice-president Davis Greene ’09 then
introduced the Real Talk Project by passing
around a sample ballot. It allows students to
choose which issue is important to them
from a list including the alcohol policy,
diversity, environmental policy, the Honor
Council, mental illness, the sexual miscon-
duct policy and town development.

SGA will discuss the issue that receives
the most votes for one month. The discussion
will culminate with the open SGA meeting in
the Union. After several senators expressed
concern over whether students would be able
to choose one issue, Greene offered to
change the ballots so that students could rank
their top three choices.

Kevin Cook ’09 asked Greene whether the
goal of the project is to talk or to bring about
change on campus.

“Tt would be my hope that at the end of the
month we would have some specific solu-
tions,” Greene replied.

“Non-senators were able to involve them-
selves in the process, from passively listen-
ing, getting up to see what was going on and
actually contributing their thoughts,” Burton
said. “Once the Real Talk Project goes into
motion, in respect to monthly themes and
such, we expect to have greater successes in
these community-wide meetings and will do
a greater job of encouraging students to
attend.”

A panel of six students spoke at last night's showing of Austin Bell’s (’10) Jena 6 film.
