| FERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Speak Up!)

nee ——e~—#«.) eyes

Unsurprisingly, this week: we’ve decided to offer our’
“perspective on the Confederate flag debate. (See “Flag /
sforces discussion” in News.) To be honest, we’re split on
_the issue, Some of us view the flag as a cultural symbol,
some as a racist.insignia. One editor from the North had_
: never until this week thought. about the Confederate flag”
for more than. two consecutive seconds but associates it
with grits and hoop skirts. Another editor from the South :
_has seen first-hand the flag’s repercussions. None of us is,
_African-American, so we really can’t understand the deep_
“emotions that the flag instills in those who may view it. as.
_a hateful symbol directed toward them. .
That said, we need to get something off of o our chest.
With an issue this important and emotionally charged, *
why do we have such a difficult time getting quotations?
Off the record, we’ve heard students defend the flag as a.
cultural symbol, cite free speech and complain about what’
they view as Tom Ross’s. ambush tactic. Granted, SAE_
President Andrew Johnson talked to us in the News sec-.
_tion, and both his organization and Alpha Phi Alpha are’
- working to establish a forum for discussion, but the debate
reaches beyond the organizations that it directly involves.
_ Students are talking about this issue. Why not in print?
We have a guess. With all due respect, you *re cowards.
It’s not just this issue. Whenever we cover a controver=”
sial topic, many people are willing to vent but few. to be,
- quoted. Most shy away out of fear: fear that their friends”
will read what they’ve said and disagree, fear that they’ Il '
sound stupid, fear that they’Il offend someone or, our per=.
‘sonal favorite, fear that. the administration will ‘Swoo!
- down on them with repercussions.“ «© 28
» The Confederate flag and the issues that it represents. .
require discussion. Candid, open. discussion. Remember
_SGA President Chris Burton’s ' Real Talk: Project» that
‘encourages students to reflect on. issues that matter to:
them, We also hope that organizations, students and facul+
“ty e heard your ideas in class. Why not bring them to :
us?) will bring their ideas t The Davidso ian. fa)
not refuse to comment. ’

“that the parties involved. will share their views in next.
_week’s_ paper... We: worry, however, that the debate will
_remain between two grou
campus-wide discussion. a a6
As Johnson pointed. out, ‘the Confederate flag has:

/ appeared at various places on campus for years, but. no one”
has ever bothered to discuss it before. Clearly this practice.
‘matters to many people, so why did it require-a member of
the Davidson community who has been here for approxi-_
mately two seconds to call us out before we even starte
the discussion? : Os

The Dabidsonian

& ALENIDA LLIX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor

Pierce Trumbo

News Editors
oc osse Trei & Monica Jamouneau
Perspectives Editors

: Yow! Editors
: “Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian *
© Sports Editors
* Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle
Photography Editor.<”

Ben Elinor ,

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager

Robbie Squibb, Karen Vanderman & Halley Brantley

vThe Davidsonian i is ‘published Wednesdays during the academic y
: by the students of Davidson College.. One copy per student. Please
~ address all correspondences to; The Davidsonian, P.O, Box 7182,
+ Davidson, NC 28035-7182, Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail See
_ Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411
| of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the: -
_ editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
_ Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per,
* year. Advertising rates a are available upon request. a

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Midnight in the garden of good and evil

ALEX Hoyt
Yowl Editor

Late last Tuesday night, in an act of impossible audacity,
an unnamed member of the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folk
mustered the bravado to place a cape and a DUFF sign on
the Sculpture Garden’s marquee acquisition, Antony
Gormley’s “You.” And, for the 45-odd minutes of daylight
that it lasted, it was moderately funny—about as funny, say,
as the fact that DUFF is the most successful sports team on
campus.

Yet somehow this benign prank was misconstrued as an
attack on intellecutal property, high art and the very sanctity
of the Sculpture Garden, inducing several hernias and an
ulcer among faculty members of the Studio Art Department
alone.

Both the punishment and the identity of the prankster are
being withheld from the public, further convincing me that
it must have been easier to cyphen information from the
Stasi than from our Deans. Based on our most reliable
sources, the perpetrator is being detained in a dank
Chambers cell awaiting interrogation by the Committee on
un-Artistic Activities. It is doubtful that he will ever toss the
‘bee again.

“You,” in case you have not already been accosted by his
unnerving gaze, is the rust-colored monolith lurking
between the library and Chambers, the one having a “dia-
logue” with that boxy black Transformer posing as a statue.
Once one gets past its inherent creepiness—for “You” is
undoubtably the voyeur of the library —it can be appreciat-
ed as the most visually engaging of the Garden’s collection.
Gormley, it should be noted, is a sculptor of international
reknown, and “You” cost Bobby Vagt several hundred-thou-
sand dollars.

Such a price tag makes me wonder whether ducktape was
the most prudent adhesive for the prankster to use on a stat-
ue- that cost more than his collective teammates’ annual
tuitions.

Does this statue’s high cost and its status as high art mean
that we must treat the courtyard as a museum? How much
interaction with these pieces is appropriate? I saw a little girl
hugging one the other day. Should I turn her in? Can we
touch the sculptures? Photograph them? In 20 years will the
lawn be strewn with mismatched untouchable masterpieces?
Isn’t it already starting to look like a pawn shop’s back lot?

The faculty have answered a few of these questions. Some

have likened the prank to screaming during an opera. This is
a poor analogy for several reasons. When a guy goes to the
opera, he dons black tie, skips the ballgame and pays good
money for two-and-a-half hours of Gilbert and Sullivan that,
presuming he prefers the Panthers to Penzance, he will prob-
ably never see again. It is a unique, expensive and surpris-
ingly pleasurable experience, and if some jackass starts cat-
calling Mabel, you’ll be liable to throw a wingtip at him.

“You,” on the other hand, greets all of us several times a
day, costs nothing and is going nowhere. There is even some
rumor of the garden acquiring Gormley’s “Ya’ll,” “You’s”
half-dozen ruddy disciples.

Even the Honor Code has been invoked on this matter, the
analogy this time being that by draping the cape and slapping
on the sign the student essentially signed the statue, thus
committing plagiarism. _

This claim baffles me, weakens the Honor Code, and
should be redirected to the Code of Responsibility. That is, if
the act were actually irresponsible enough to merit such
attention.

In my opinion, pranks should be crude, more elaborate and
not signed “DUFF” by their perpetrators. Give me MIT
hacks detonating the 50-yard line during half-time of the
Harvard- Yale game. Give me Banksy, Britian’s graffiti extra-
ordinaire, spray-painting two male police officers making
out on the wall of Prince Albert pub onTrafalgar Square. Or
the proverbial mastermind who led cows painted #1, #2 and
#4 up the stairs of his school’s administrative building, lead-
ing to an all-day search for the nonexistant cow #3.

Give “You” an inflatable girlfriend. A prescription for via-
gra. Lawn gnomes and pink flamingoes for neighbors. But
dress him up as Little Red Riding Hood? Doesn’t do much
for me.

These sorts of pranks, when done cleverly and harmlessly
and without studiply damaging expensive art with ducktape,
represent an interaction and engagement very much within
the spirit of a liberal arts campus.

In high school, when a teacher got pranked, it was usually
a sign of acceptance and even a strange, awkward form of
affection. A cape and a DUFF sign, while not a warm wel-
come, are at worst a harmless initiation and about as close to
affection as that giant rusty Oscar is going to get for some
time.

Alex Hoyt ’09 is an English major from Salem, VA.
Contact him at alhoyt@davidson.edu.

Thompson candidacy announcement a letdown

Bossy DESPAIN
Guest Columnist

At the start of this month, I knew I was going to have a
tough time voting in the next presidential election. It was not
that I did not know enough about the candidates; it was more
that none fit my vision for the next president.

I am not talking about just the Democratic candidates,
The Republican field was disastrously disappointing as well.
Mr. Giuliani will fight Islamo-fascists but not big govern-
ment. Mr. Romney cannot be trusted to stand firm on any
issue. Mr. McCain seems too concerned about being every-
one’s favorite rather than doing what is right. In addition,
almost all the candidates have been involved in the govern-
ment far too long.

I would ask Thompson one thing:
What happened to the popular
image of the man with the red

pickup truck?

I needed someone different. Ever since the murmurs
began in March, I felt Mr. Fred Thompson could be the man
I wanted. Finally, on Sept. 6, he announced his candidacy for
president.

However, the style of Thompson’s announcement disap-
pointed me. His decision to announce his official entry into
the presidential race on Jay Leno was disenchanting. First of
all, he announced it on a television show—Jay Leno’s com-
edy show no less. There is nothing presidential about Jay
Leno or his show. What does Thompson gain by announcing
his candidacy via a comedy show? Does he think he will
pick up primary votes in that audience? Mr. Thompson’s
main priority should be obtaining the GOP nomination.

I would ask Thompson one thing: What happened to the
popular image of the man with the red pickup truck? That
man would have never gone on Jay Leno. If I had been
Thompson, I would have driven that red pickup truck right
up to the White House gates and announced my candidacy
from the truck bed. .

Perhaps it would have been better to announce his candi-
dacy in Tennessee. It would not have hurt to add some fuel
to the base, especially since Thompson has been in candida-
cy limbo for so long. The constant question of his candidacy
has certainly cooled some of the support he originally gar-
nered at the beginning of the year. Mr. Thompson needs to
return to that pickup truck and show voters that he not only
wants to be their president but that he is the best person for
the job.

Mr. Thompson must recapture the fervor present at the
beginning of the rumors of his candidacy if he wants to win
the GOP nomination towards the presidency. He needs to
continually drive home the reasons that fervor existed in the
first place. For example, he should remind voters of his
desire to cut government spending and to continue Bush’s
tax cuts. He needs to tell them that he wants to regain the
country’s sovereignty by securing her borders.

Thompson recently gave an interview to National Review
Online’s Byron York, who asked Thompson, “What did you
make of a statement made by White House spokesman Tony
Snow, that with the surge American troops would no longer
be fighting with their hands tied behind their backs?” Mr.
Thompson replied, “The first thing I thought was, “Why in
the devil were they ever fighting with one hand tied behind
their backs?” That is just what the country needs to hear.

I hope that Mr. Thompson’s appearance on Leno is not a
sign of a downward spiral. I hope it simply is a detour on the
way to the bed of his red pickup truck.

Bobby DesPain ’J1 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact himn at bodespain@davidson.edu
