6

- “oo

12 Steps to stay cht

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
A&L Editor

December means holidays, friends and
-family, much joy and happiness. We all love
the decorations on Main St. and how a
steaming cup of hot chocolate somehow
brings more comfort than biscuits and gravy
this time of year. But, despite the festivities,
exams are upon us, and as necessary as it is
to layer up, we also need to take time to chill
out.

Stress is an inevitable part of college life,
and exams seem ruthlessly to cut the days in
half while doubling our workload. There is
no way to avoid it: stress is the worst part of
school and reaches a maximum right now. I
have no idea how to eliminate stress, but I do
have some ideas that will really help to
reduce stress to a manageable, positive level
which we can use to get through exam week.

So, in honor of the 12 days of Christmas, I
have come up with a 12-item list of tips you
might want to try during exams and over the
holiday break.

1. Power Naps - This is a gift that keeps on
giving, so never underestimate its power.
Sleep is probably the most important and yet
most neglected asset to success in school.
Even a 20-minute nap does wonders for your
health and will give you a nice boost of ener-
gy. If you don’t think you can spare 20, then
close your eyes for five or 10 (it works better
if you cover them to simulate darkness) and
stop all activity. Concentrate on regular, deep
breathing, and voila. You’ll feel calmer.

By SAM SHELINE
Special Contributor

1 fully admit that riding my mountain
bike is an unhealthy passion. I get great

probably 90% of my money on new bike
parts, placing food and other nonessentials

» The type of riding I do, called “freerid-
ing,’ is inherently dangerous, not to men- “
tion that I recently lost my helmet and hav
been riding helmetiess. «I literally start
every ride thinking to myself, “Okay, try
not to fall on your head.” I even have three

I want.to learn or the next line I want to
ride. a8 : x

five years ago I just rode trails, but. a back-

affinity for jumping off of anything taller 4

98

world of “freeriding?’

| developments have. taken place. in. the.
world of mountain biking. This rapid pro-
gression. can. lead to the ‘chronic: illnes:
known as | / Teneed-to-have-the-newest
sweetest-parts-hanging- -off-of-my-bike-

raging bike snob. °
| My treatment began near the beginning
of this semester, when I received.a fellow-
ship from a. program: called SURGE,

Environment), which promotes student-led

oer

exercise from it, but I end up spending ,

second. © fo #

mountain bikes in my dorm room in Irwin.
I literally have dreams about the next trick

= When I started mountain biking about.

ground in skateboarding and. a. general ~

~/ Even though-five years may not seem

like: a long .time, ‘serious technological “, undertakings of my entire life. Trying to be
full time Davidson student, remain active in,
_other eampus projects and. organizations, still.
have time to ride my own bikes and carry out’
this project has been harder than I could have:

_ from the owner of the local bike shop.
(Students United for.a Responsible Global .

environmental. and social activism. The...
main part of this fellowship involved com- rewarding. ° one
ing up with a semester-long project that:
would be in keeping with SURGE’s mis- ;

ee

2. Exercise - It’s what the doctor ordered,
and you need 30-60 minutes of daily focused
exercise to maintain your health. And a great
bonus is the release of endorphins, which
immediately reduce stress. But you don’t
have to run three miles at six mph. to
achieve the health and stress - relief benefits.
Anything from biking and walking to pilates
and yoga is perfect.

3. Healthy Eating - Another biggie.
Whether you feel it or not, a healthy diet can
either help or hurt your mental performance.
So when you are working hard, it is impor-
tant to give your body the necessary nourish-

ment to maintain your energy level and per-

formance.

However, when you start to feel the stress
of work bring on hunger, it’s easy to reach
for that bag of Cheetos or candy bar. Don’t!
While these foods do give a short boost of
energy, they are absolutely terrible for you.
Instead, choose fruits, vegetables, nuts, pret-
zels, yogurt, Nutragrain bars, dry cereal or
oatmeal.

4. Music - My favorite! If you’re feeling
stressed, turn it up until someone tells you
their walls are shaking. The choice is com-
pletely up to you, because you know what
music makes you the most happy.

And if you are in a festive spirit, turn the
radio to 102.9 or 104.7 F.M., both of which
are playing continual holiday music now
through the new year.

5. Meditation - The premiere form of

sion of activism.
“The project I. devised was to collect and *
/ repair old bike; and eventually give these-.
than three feet led me to the more extreme “ +. bikes to needy children. : ‘
-~ eT must admit that organizing and executing

this project has been one of the most difficult

ver imagined. It, has also been extremely

itis, and it can rapidly turn. someone into a frustrating at times. Case in point: my recent

bike collection day—during which people
from the community could bring me their old
-bikes—yielded only three specimens,, all

we

»+ But as difficult and time-consuming as
this project has been, (and F’m still nowhere
near finished), it has also been amazingly

=, One of the main rewards has been nearly

> losing all of my bike snobbery. This process ,”

Sam Sheline "10 shows off some of his moves while catching seriously mad air. 3

He saw \nice frame; even if allof its

deemed unk?

‘more bikes, And as I gained appreciation
for the bikes-themselves, I also gained a
‘greater understanding of the real goal of
riding a bicycle: having the freedom to go

> feet. If this project allows me to introduce

eIVIIIG

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,

Dec 12, 2007
—— “a 2

Don’t let exams and holiday stress keep you down, it’s a great time to be happy!

relaxation. This is probably the simplest of
suggestions I could make, because you don’t
have to do anything or go anywhere. Just
close your eyes (you don’t have to cover
them if you don’t want to), breathe in for five
seconds, hold and exhale for another five
seconds while concentrating on a happy
memory or nothing at all. Repeat as much as
you want until you feel your stress ease.

6. Friends - I am guilty of this one. When
you get busy, you might find that you are cut-
ting yourself off from friends. If you find that
you are doing this, try to make some time
during the day to call someone special or
arrange a group dinner in the Union. Or even
send a quick email, saying “Hey, thinking

© began as T inspected a fleet of rundown old
»phikes with Mike Goode, Assistant Director
of Davidson Outdoors, Where I saw a beat
up piece of garbage, Mike saw a well-trued
front. wheel, and tires: with miles of tread

parts were rusted into oblivion. After just.
(0 minutes of assessing these bicycles with.
Mike, I gained incredible new perspective
n the value of what I would’ ye previously:

y grew as Icollected

arther, faster and to experience the world
differently than one could on his or her

even one child to the incredible freedom
that a bicycle provides, all the hard work.
will be worth it.

about you, hope all is well and good luck!”
They will appreciate it so much and return
the favor.

7. Laugh - The best medicine, hands down.
It instantly boosts your mood and lets you
tackle stress better than anything I know.
Meet up with friends or watch “Arrested
Development.” For best results, take togeth-
er.

8. Get off campus - Can we say Exit 28?
25? Charlotte? Pick one and, if you don’t
have a car, find a ride with someone who is
probably equally as anxious to go as you. If
you feel like a tasty study break, (and while
it may go against tip number three) ignore
the calories and enjoy a large gelato at Cafe
Mia. You deserve the treat.

9. Read something other than your text-
book - It’s so sad, but during the semester I
know so many people who only read materi-
al that pertains to a class or is required. What
happened to pleasure reading?!

Walk into any Barnes & Noble (there is
one on Exit 25, by the way) and take your
pick. One particularly good read is “The
Elephant Suite” by Paul Theroux, which
describes the crossroads of several different
people who loose and find themselves in the
mystique of modern-day India. And since it
is the holidays, a personal favorite of mine is
still “How the Grinch Stole Christmas” by
Dr. Seuss.

10. Positive thinking - Hard times got you
down? Do you have more negative thoughts
than affirmations? The best way to keep
going when the going gets tough is to tell
yourself that you are doing the best you can
and that’s all anyone can ask of you. If an
exam doesn’t go as well as you had hoped,
let it go and focus on the next one.

11. Holiday shopping - Need I say more?
The holidays are quickly approaching, and
by the time we all get home the Big Man will
practically be coming down the chimney.
Take a few hours and go to Birkdale, North
Lake or Charlotte and hit a few stores.

But if you don’t want to spend the cash,
window shop.It’s the cheapest form of
splurging and you cannot deny the fuzzy
penguins in the display window were worth
the trip.

12. Fruitcake and Egg Nog - I can never
get enough of either, and ’tis the season. So
if you find any of the good stuff, tell me.

GOOD LUCK WITH EXAMS AND
HAPPY HOLIDAYS!!!
