THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Volleyball contin-
ues to struggle

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

The volleyball team entered its weekend
road trip with high hopes of opening
Southern Conference play on a positive note
and ending its five-game losing streak.
Unfortunately for the ’Cats, the weekend
brought more heartbreak as the team
dropped a pair of 3-0 decisions at Western
Carolina (30-16, 30-18, 30-24)
Chattanooga (30-27, 30-21, 30-25).

The Wildcats came out flat in their opener
at Western. The Catamounts scored first in
the opening game and never looked back. At
one point, they held a commanding 17-4 lead
on their way to an easy 30-16 victory.

In the second game, the Cats looked to
get out to a fast start as outside hitter Katie
Pierucci ’08 won the games first point.
Davidson kept the game close in the early
going behind blocks from Brittany Narr ’09
and Jorden Benedict ’11.

A pair of Catamount errors knotted the
score at 5-5, but Western opened up a 15-7
lead with a 10-2 run. The home side then
sailed the rest of the way in a 30-18 victory.

Despite being in an 0-2 hole, the ’Cats
fought valiantly in the third game. The teams
exchanged points for most of the game, and
Davidson trailed 18-17 following one of
middle blocker Kittery Neale’s ’09 nine kills.
Neale also led the Wildcats with 10 points
and .316 hitting percentage.

Western seemed to break open the close

Tf youre curious and adventurous
then pack your bags and say
goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit,
experience a different culture, learn
a foreign language, discover who
you are and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.™

Farth phato courtesy of NASA: The Vieibie Barth, herparisiblecasth maa, gow’

and. .

on the opportunity to see the
world from a unique perspective

Kittery Neale 09 led the team with 10
points against Western Carolina

game with a 6-2 run, but coach Tim Cowie
called a timeout and Davidson responded
with a 6-1 run of its own to cut the deficit
back to one at 25-24.

The Catamounts’ attack, led by Ali Rook
and Meredith Harmon, proved to be too
much. Following a Western timeout, the
home team reeled off five straight points to
secure match and game victories. The
Wildcats had little time for sulking as they
faced another tough SoCon test the next
afternoon at Chattanooga.

On Sunday the Wildcats were without
freshman star Sarabeth Peele ’11 who suf-
fered a lower leg injury during Saturday’s
contest. Davidson challenged its opponent
for all three games, but came up short once
again, this time against the Mocs. With the
win, Chatanooga remained undefeated (3-0)
in the Southern Conference.

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

Pierucci turned in a solid effort for the
’Cats, recording her 6th double-double of the
season by posting 14 kills and 12 digs. Neale

also turned in a stellar. performance for the.

second straight day by notching 12 kills.

Chattanooga and Davidson battled closely
in game one, and the ’Cats trailed just 22-21
following a 5-2 run. The Mocs responded to
the run with a smart timeout that propelled
them to a close 30-27 win.

The ’Cats could not overcome a slow start
in the second game. The team fell behind 9-
2 early and never recovered despite playing
well for the rest of the game. The Mocs
coasted to a 30-21 victory and the two-game
advantage.

In game three Davidson got off to another
slow start, but this time recovered nicely and

After playing on | their heels for most of.
e first period, the Wildcats came out ene
‘Sized i in the second. half, ‘After. only: five
j,in.the..second period, Lauren -

Conne "10

The Wildcats regained the momentum,
: nd held. Vanderbilt: from scoring: for the
rest of the second period. ee
During overtime, Davidson finished ‘off |

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

0 found offensive.dynamo Kyra Tiger forward collided while going for:
 Bye-Nagel 10 who fired home the equaliz~< - Agose ball. English received an inadvertent
7-10 the kickto the back of the head in the col,

11

Be
even led for a vast majority of the game.
Another kill by Pierucci gave the ’Cats a 17-
15 lead, but the Mocs answered with four
points of their own to take a 19-17 lead. The
score was again even at 19, and the lady
Wildcats took a late lead following a block
by Neale and a Pierucci ace.

Chattanooga halted the rally with a time-
out and put together a 7-1 run to take a com-
manding 26-22 lead. The ’Cats fought hard
to the end but fell 30-25, sealing the victory
for the Mocs.

The weekend losses dropped Davidson’s
record to 0-2 in the SoCon and 5-10 overall.
The team hopes to end its slide this weekend
when College of Charleston and the Citadel
come to Belk Arena for two more SoCon
showdowns Sept. 28 and 29 in Belk Arena.

“alison Drutchas 711 sent a ong pass ¢ “off
ee kick to Courtney Hart.710. Hart pow.
red the ball into the top of the net to, give
the, Cats a 10 advantage;
Joy’ was. “short-lived, however, as
_ quickly went on the attack and English an

:

ision and took her time to return to her feet.
English would remain in the gam
» Davidson. sealed its win in thésecon

the Commodores with a single shot, At the; half with two. goals within two minutes.
98:19 mark, captain Nancy Haskell *08 ” Kristen Koehrn *08 got her second assist of |
took a comer kick and fired it into the six--’ the year when she sent-a cross into the:
yard box. where. Blakely, Li 2° 710 rose , penalty box where. Connor deflected the.
above the Vanderbilt defense and headed. . ball to the back of the net. Then, Bye-Nagel..
the ball in to the. net.’ With the win, ’ raced past three defenders from midfield at:

“win streak of the season. « :
We started overtime: very aggressive and”

we. deserved. every mane} We. got,’ second shutout of the season.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
JD. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘8-4—'06
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Davidson secured. its. first multiple game : * the 74:54 mark and tapped one in the net to,

- put the Wildcats up 3.022.%) 20" ee ;
« The Wildcat defense preserved Baglish

_ weekend,” Ashton said. “To get a win, plus
oa sae against. a ‘team. of. this caliber, ig

Southern an eo << Bye
its Player. of the. Week: and ‘Haskell:

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J D.University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
B3~'85; 8897
Town of Dovidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan 0S

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council 03 to present.

Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice
Bankraptcy, Busmess Law, Colfextions, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Soctal Secarity Disability, Wills & Trusts

Bn
Nlog;
Ea ta
Law FIRM
In the Historic Davidzon Cotton Mill, 269 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 992-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

