4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

"In Brief

» Patterson Court Day of Service
»» Patterson Court will sponsor a Day of
‘Service this Saturday, Nov.3..,
_ The fraternities and eating houses, as
-well as Davidson faculty and staff, will
“send members to different locations in the
area to engage in service opportunities and
to promote a greater community involve-
ment on campus...” :
_A barbeque open to all will be held that
“evening from 5 Pm. to 6:30 p.m, in the
Union amphitheater-

© Voter Information
if you missed the 25-day deadline for
‘voter registration and you are..a North
“Carolina resident, you are eligible to regis-
ter at a One-Stop Site during the One-Stop
‘Absentee < Voting period, which extends
from 19 to three days before Election Day.
Tt.is not permitted to register on Election
Day itself.
_ When you go to the One-Stop Voting
Site, you must: bring with you a proof of
residency with your current name and cur:
rent address.Identification can be in the
form of a drivers’ license, some sort of bill
‘showing your address (for example, a tele-
hone bill), passport, birth certificate, bank

All academic majors. Full salary and benefits.

NEws
_ New History professor brings German perspective

By TIMOTHY COHEN
Staff Writer

The strong role that diversity can play in
the college experience has led Davidson to
place special emphasis on achieving cultural
and ethnic diversity among students, faculty
and staff. New Professor of History Thomas
Pegelow Kaplan’s colorful academic experi-
ences and German upbringing fit well with
this effort.

Pegelow Kaplan grew up in Germany and
pursued a double major in European History
and American Studies at Eberhard Karls
University Tubingen. Peglow Kaplan then
decided to come to the United States to study
European History at the University of
Oregon.

Peglow Kaplan received his Ph.D. from
the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill
and taught there until 2004.

In 2004, he took a position at Grinnell
College in‘ Iowa. Peglow Kaplan became
interested in liberal arts colleges after visit-
ing Middlebury College.

After discovering his zeal for the liberal
arts education philosophy through these two
schools, he was eager to return to North
Carolina.

Peglow Kaplan specializes in Holocaust
studies. He is currently writing a book man-

uscript about the linguistic violence that
Jews suffered during World War II, the reign
of Nazi power and the struggles that faced
Germans of Jewish ancestry.

In addition to the book, Peglow Kaplan
hopes to begin a project translating German
works on the Holocaust into English. He
would also like to see increased scholarship
on the Holocaust.

Pegelow Kaplan became interested in the
Holocaust while growing up in Cold War
Germany when debate began over the legacy
of the Nazis.

This semester, Pegelow Kaplan teaches
History 335 (Comparative Genocide in the
20th Century) and History 122 (Europe since
1789).

In the future, he plans on teaching semi-
nars on the Holocaust and maleness in mod-
ern Europe.

“I have been impressed by the willingness
of Davidson students to be challenged, and
many of the students perform on the same
level as first and second year graduate stu-
dents,” Pegelow Kaplan said. “I am also
impressed that when I assign reading that
students always read all or most of the read-
ing and come to class prepared.”

Drew Gilbert ’08 is currently a student in
Pegelow Kaplan’s Comparative Genocide in
the 20th Century course.

a

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007

“Professor Pegelow Kaplan’s class is full
of discussion. He encourages students to
look at the both sides of an issue and has vast
knowledge of the material,” Gilbert said.
“Also, he is genuinely enthusiastic about the
material and brings that energy to class.”

www.teachforamerica.org
