hy

Prep

he Davidsonian wants to welcome the Class of 2011 to
campus and offer you some hard-won advice to help you.
navigate your four years here. Although we address our-.
selves primarily to our newest students, everyone might
“Jearn something from our experiences and mistakes. After,
gall don’t: want anyone to make the same mistakes. wi
_ haves We prefer variety in our errors and imperfections @
*Though spelled “Stephen;2«his name ‘is. pronounce
teffin? If you don’t know who we’re ee about, wi

£The lights : at “Court parties turn on at 2¢ am. Make sure.
-that the person you’re dancing with at 1: 32.) is the person
_ you want the whole room to see you with.
_ *The second and (especially) the basement floors of the
library are silent, We take the silent part seriously.2)0
hough if: may be competitive. with other college book
yres, the Sprinkle Room book store is generally not com-
“petitive with half.com or Amazon.com, particularly for
# textbooks. Granted, books bought online may have high-
lighting or arrive a bit late, but, on the other hand, you may
save yourself, your parents, your scholarship benefactors,
-ete., hundreds of dollars. We don’t advocate boycotting the
book store; we merely remind students that the free market.
2 allows them to shop for the best deals. ° —
->*First Night Down is on Friday. For some, this is an
introduction to the campus’s social life. For others, it is a
spectacle in human idiocy. And for too many, the night
«becomes an “I never thought it would happen to me” story.
~ You’ve heard about the buddy system from your parents,’
_ your hall counselors and Georgia Ringle, but. hear it one
«More time from us. Take care of each other, cut your
_ friends off before they’ ve had too much to drink and, fresh-
_men girls especially, know that upperclassmen guys who
_ serve pretty girls alcohol don’t always do it out of the good-

ness of their hearts. We've made those t mistakes. We don’ t

@xou don’t have to read every page. of every reading.
a ses are important; that is, after all, why you are here.
But don’t become a hermit because you earn an 82 instead

:0f an 87 on a test. To slightly misquote a Davidson alum
_who now teaches here: “My GPA wasn’t perfect, but I still
have people who love me, dogs still wag their tails when
they see me and cats still purr when I pet them”... ..&
__ As we alluded to above, the world does not reveolve
“around what happens in the classroom at Davidson. Pay
attention to what else is happening. There’s controversial
development in the town, the first presidential election that
many of you will be able to vote in is approaching and the
world is full of stupidity and wonder. Know what’s happen-
ing in the Davidson community, but keep an eye on the big-
ger picture, too.

The Dabidsontan

@ ALENDA’ LUX LIBLORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
a Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor
. Pierce Trumbo
f A, News Editors
Alissa Irei & Monica Jamouneau
f Perspectives Editors
tf Laura Van Oudenaren & Katie Miller
oo # Arts & Living Editors
© ennier Errington & Mike Wellman
2 Yowl Editors “"",,
Dan Killian & Alex Hoyt™~
Sports Editors ;
Patrick McArdle & Will Bryan , - /
Photography Editor f
Ben Ellinor
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Halley Brantley &

= The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic y
by the students of Davidson College.’ One copy per student: Please.
address all correspondences to: . The Davidsonian, BO, Box:7182,,
» Davidson, NC-28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail 7:4
-Davidsonian@davidson.edu, Our offices are located in Room 411
_of the Alvarez College Union.. Opinions expressed in letters to the:
"editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the.
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian... Subscriptions cost $50. 00 per
year. paverising tates 2 are available upon, Tequest.-

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College..

Tom Ross
Guest Columnist

Since beginning work at Davidson on the first of August,
I have often felt like an animal at the zoo. People seem to be
watching my every move to see what they can learn about
me and who I am. I have spent a significant amount of my
time so far talking with staff and faculty to share why I am
here, what is important to me, how I work and what I like. I
haven’t had the opportunity to do this with very many stu-
dents so far. So, to save you the time spent listening to me
talk or monitoring my activities, I have decided to share with
you 12 things about me you may find interesting and/or
important to know.

1. J really enjoy living in an environment where people
speak to each other when they pass in the hail or on the side-
walk and value each other for who they are.

2. I love to talk with people and get to know them and
what interests, concerns, ideas and dreams they have.

3. I tend to ask a lot of questions. Don’t spend a lot of time

trying to figure out my motivation for asking them. I honest- °

ly am just trying to learn your perspective and what you
think.

4. I am usually pretty clear about stating any agenda I
have, so there is no need to spend a lot of time guessing or
wondering what I am thinking. I am a transparent guy. If you
don’t understand what I am up to, just ask me.

5. I love Davidson and care a great deal about the happi-
ness and success of the people who work and study here. So
I hope you will feel free to come to see and talk to me if I
can help you in any way.

6. I came to Davidson not because I needed a job but
because I want to add value to a place that significantly
impacted the kind of person I have become and any accom-
plishments I have attained.

IVES

12 things you want to know about Tom Ross

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

7. My first instinct is to trust people and believe in them.
In some places this would be naive. Not so at Davidson.

8. I played football and basketball growing up, but I am a
fan of all sports, and you will find me in the stands often.

9. My passions outside of work are my family and fly fish-
ing. Both are fun and easy to love.

10. My wife, Susan, and I met while we were both in col-
lege, and we got married the day of the Watergate break in.
You will have to figure out when and what that was and if
and how we knew it was going to happen.

I love to talk with people and get to
know them and what interests, con-
cerns, ideas and dreams they have.

11. I have a son, Tommy, who is a 1999 graduate of
Davidson, lives in DC and works for a member of Congress
and a daughter, Mary Kathryn, who is a 2001 graduate of
Davidson, just got married and owns a specialty running
store in Charlotte with her husband.

12) My dog, Chelsea, is a Golden Retriever who loves
people and is always happy to see you. She also loves to
watch TV and chases shadows.

So there you have it-12 easy steps to getting to know the
new guy. If you want to know more, I hope you will come
by my office, join me for lunch when you see me eating, stop
me when I am walking on campus or call me. I am really
glad to be here and I look forward to working with each of
you and learning from you.

It is a great day to be a Wildcat!

Tom Ross is our new school president. Contact him at
toross @davidson.edu.

Loss of Gonzalez, Rove nothing to mourn

Karl Rove and Alberto
Gonzales are finally getting some
well-deserved rest this Labor Day.
In Mr. Rove’s seven years at 1600
Pennsylvania Ave. and Dr.
Gonzales’ nearly three, the pair
has worked hard to push through
their friend the President’s poli-
cies.

Is this untimely dismissal a fit-
ting reward for years of noble
obfuscation and political
finagling?

After all, these men did what
this President seems to value
most: surround themselves with supporters and ensure that
the rest of us are in the dark.

Surely, in this respect, they have done a more than
admirable job. The Bush presidency, already well-known for
its shotgun accuracy in foreign affairs, has also changed the
face of domestic bureaucracy and of the Office itself. Mr.
Rove has schemed and planned his way through three suc-
cessful elections, to great effect. But he has also kept the
executive opaque and untouchable by dodging potential
scandals. Erstwhile naysayer Valerie Plame went down in a
blaze as the Boy Wonder, Rove, “accidentally” leaked her
name to the press, all to keep her husband quiet in the lead-
up to Iraq.

the welcome matt

But the qualities that made these
men so invaluable to this White
House are exactly what this
nation needs least.

Rove devised ways to purge the massive federal govern-
ment of career bureaucrats suspected of “liberal” tendencies.
Gonzales did his part, too. He stepped valiantly in front of
the Senate and did his best to forget what he knew about U.S.
Attomey firings. Potentially damaging emails disappeared
from computers and minds. All this behind the aegis of exec-
utive privilege.

But the qualities that made these men so invaluable to this
White House are exactly what this nation needs least. The
Bush administration has done more than any since Nixon to
destroy the credibility and accountability of the Executive.

The President’s policies have disillusioned many men and
women who voted for him.

Under Gonzales, the Justice Department hid and obscured
the facts about domestic wiretapping, extraordinary rendi-
tion, the FISA courts and other important political issues.
Sidling behind slivers of legal interpretations and shifting
casus belli, the administration has hoodwinked the
American people, stealing away our most important gift:
trust. That is why Mr. Bush’s numbers are so low—
Americans are sick of being given the runaround. Making
mistakes is fine. Covering them up and evading the public is
not.

That is why Valerie Plame, yellowcake, Iraq, signing
statements and nine U.S. Attorneys are so important. They
create a foggy atmosphere of guile and secrecy in an Office
that should be the paradigm of integrity. When strung togeth-
er, these scandals create a hangman’s noose as the death rat-
tle of accountability fadesO away.

By creating excuses and cover stories, by replacing disloy-
al bureaucrats and forgetting about hospital bed conversa-
tions, the Bush administration has made us weary of the
President and the Office he holds.

But this is nothing new. This accountability deficit can be
traced back before 2000: from Watergate to Iran-Contra to
Whitewater to the Lewinsky sex scandal.

The question is not who is the
most experienced candidate or
who looks most presidential, but
rather whom can we trust.

They all point to the same question: can we trust the White
House as an institution to represent our interests and be
accountable for its mistakes? Does it have the executive
privilege to be above and beyond us; to sign away approved
legislation, mislead Congress and protect its officials from
indictment?

The year 2008 offers a breath of fresh air, but does it offer
healing? The question is not who is the most experienced
candidate or who looks most presidential, but rather whom
can we trust. It is this quality above all that makes a person
capable to lead and, more importantly, to serve.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Poltical Science and Religion major
from Seminole, FL. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu.
