12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

Football opens season with pyrrhic victory, 31-21
ye

RB

Barnes ran for 170 yards and a touchdown on 29 car-
ries to lead Davidson to a 31-21 win over UNC-P.

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Davidson had not even made it through the first half of its
season opening contest with UNC-Pembroke when the ’Cats
found themselves staring down their first major setback of
2007.

Midway through the second quarter, starting quarterback
Ryan Alexander ’08 suffered a shoulder injury while running
for a first down. Although Alexander spent the rest of the
game on the sideline, the Wildcats overcame the setback with
stellar performances from the offensive line and a balance
offensive attack in a 31-21 victory over the upstart Braves on
Saturday night in Richardson Stadium.

Playing in front of an electric atmosphere fueled by the
large contingent of Braves faithful who made the trip from
Pembroke, the ‘Cats struck first with an impressive nine-
play, 91 yard drive capped by a 15-yard touchdown pass
from Alexander to Myles Potter 09. Cody Elder ’08 convert-
ed the extra point as the home side jumped out to a 7-0 lead.

UNCP, playing their first varsity football game since 1950,
gave their black and gold clad fans something to cheer about
on the ensuing possession when Matt Evans hooked up with
Darrin Watkins on a 64-yard TD strike. However, Davidson
retained a 7-6 advantage as the Braves’ extra point attempt
was blocked.

The two teams exchanged a pair of fumbles and punts until
Davidson fullback Kirk Benedict *10 punched in a touch-
down run from 2 yards out to push the ‘Cats lead to 14-6 with
1:03 left in the first quarter.

On Davidson’s first offensive possession of the second
quarter they lost arguably their biggest offensive weapon
when Alexander went down with a right shoulder injury. The
senior quarterback, a 3-year starter, is coming off a 2006
campaign in which he threw for over 250 mee a game and

broke school records for passing and total yards. He is expect-
ed to miss 2-3 weeks with the injury.

Even in limited action, Alexander showed why he is one of
the best quarterbacks in the NCAA FCS division as he complet-
ed 12 of 17 passes for 124 yards and a TD in just over one quar-
ter of play. With Alexander forced to watch from the sideline,
Davidson head coach Trip Merritt turned to backup Matt
McGreevy ’08.

The Cats’ offense continued to be productive on the ground
after McGreevy took over under center. Midway through the
second quarter Elder converted on a 34-yard field goal to
extend the Davidson lead to 17-6, and then minutes later Chad
Barnes ’09 scored on a 2-yard run to push the score to 24-6.

Barnes’ touchdown run was the beginning of a big night for
the junior running back as he proceeded to run for 170 yards on
29 carries. Much of Barnes’ success can be attributed to a mag-
nificent performance by the offensive live consisting of return-
ing starters George Zoeckler 08, Zach Jakob ’08 and Will
Nolte 09 along with newcomers Shane Purvis ’10 and Mark
Jafrate °10.

Although UNC-Pembroke made a run at the ’Cats in the sec-
ond half, Davidson’s defense was bolstered by the stellar play
of linebacker Bud Crawford ’08. Crawford finished the game
with an interception, a blocked kick and five solo tackles.

With their lead dwindling down to nine, the Wildcats offense
responded early in the fourth when McGreevy connected with
Benedict from 14 yards out for his first career touchdown pass.
It was Benedict’s second touchdown of the game and more
importantly the score put Davidson in front 31-15 with less than
11 minutes to play. McGreevy finished the night 8 of 17 for 107
and the touchdown pass.

The 31-21 season opening victory is the start of season of
high expectations for the Wildcats. Davidson returns 36 letter
winners and 11 starters from last season’s 6-4 club. They were

picked to finish 3rd in the preseason PFL poll.

Men’s soccer falls twice in opening weekend

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson Men’s Soccer opened up the 2007 campaign this

giate goal, a game-tying strike at the sixty-three minute mark.

Lavan notched his second assist on the afternoon by setting

Bracken up from 18 feet out.

“[Lavan’s] a generally dangerous player in the corner,”

past weekend, hosting the Adidas Classic at Alumni Stadium. Bracken said. “The defenders moved to double-team him,
The Wildcat squad lost a pair of tough matches to two leaving me open several yards behind him.” Bracken aimed
California opponents: St. Mary’s and San Jose State. The far-post with the shot, hitting it past that keeper and into the
’Cats lost Friday’s season-opener to the St. Mary’s Gaels 2-0. top-left-corner.

Then, coach Matt Spear’s team lost an overtime heartbreaker Despite an 0-2 start to the 2007 season, there seems to be
to the San Jose State Spartans, surrendering a golden-goal in much optimism surrounding this year’s team.

the eleventh minute of extra time. “Our team is on the verge of breaking out and reaching a

In the Friday contest, the Wildcats played well in the first new level. We’re creating great opportunities to score and win
half, outshooting St. Mary’s 6-3 in the opening 45 minutes., games,” Bracken said.
including a strong shot by co-captain Robby Hoak ’08 that “We played well in the first half of the Friday game, and in
was deflected over the crossbar by the opposing goalkeeper. the second half of the Sunday game,” defender Jon Bassett
But the Wildcats could not continue the intensity in the sec- °08 said. “The talent is there, the ideas are there, we just
ond half of play, with the Gaels scoring twice in the final 25 haven’t executed yet.”
minutes. Much of the optimism surrounding the 2007 season is being

In Sunday’s match-up, the teams played tight through the generated from an abundance of young talent, including this
majority of the first half. San Jose State went into the half year’s freshman recruiting class.
with a 2-0 lead, resulting from unassisted goals in the 31st _ First-year players Josh Zipin ’11, Alex Caskey ’11 and Seth
and 34th minutes. Kulaskera 11 all received significant playing time in the last

Neither was an especially skilled played on the part of weekend’s contests.

Spartan offense. The first resulted from a miscommunication Up next, the team has six games on the road. This weekend,
between defender and keeper yielding a loose-ball near the non-conference play continues against Lafayette and Dayton
goal-line. Less than 4 minutes later, a fortuitous chip from 50 in Greensboro in tournament play.

yards caught Davidson goalkeeper Ben Ashton ’08 off the The ’Cats then battle local rival UNC-Charlotte at
line. Charlotte on Homecoming Saturday.

The Wildcats would battle back in the second half, netting “We loved the crowd on Friday night,” Bracken said. “We
two goals and sending the contest to overtime. Hoak scored have some seriously good home games in October including
shortly after half on a cross from fellow forward Tom Lavan South Carolina, Furman and Duke, and bringing big crowds is.
’08, then defender Liam Bracken °10 scored his first colle- key to winning those types of big games:”

DG COUFIe

Seeger opaus luyopmasigms
Tom Lavan ’08 recorded two assists in Sunday’s loss to
San Jose State in the Adidas Classic.

Cas a rar

PLAY OF THE WEE:

fae Ea

=

_ Player of the Week |

Sarabeth Peele

Volleyball
Hometown: San Antonio, TX

DRED MER 32970 PEE

Lauren Conner’ s OT goal vs. High Point

11

After a stalemate in regulation, Amanda Flink sent a ball between the
High Point goalie and defense. And after a botched attempt by the
High Point goalie to secure the ball, Conner pounced on the opportuni-
ty, corraling the ball and finding herself alone and in front of the goal.
Her shot secured the Wildcat s first victory of the year.

In her first weeks as a freshman, Peele has already compiled a
team-high 72 kills and five service aces to help the Wildcats to
their 3-2 record. She also earned SoCon Player of the Week
honors for her first week of action.

