THE DAVIDSONIAN

2:

Petraeus, Crocker stand ~
firm in the face of Ne 's
CongressiqnaL interrogation

Guest Columniss,

ao The big news stories last week were. the testimonies of
General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker as
well as‘a notorious ad in the New York: Times. Before I
Opinionate on the ad, I want to discuss the hearings...
The general and the Ambassador both testified in the
“Senate and the House. The air es ecially the General —
performed quite well.
A distinctive assortment of individuals attended the hear
ings. The General wore his dress uniform, which demon-
strated why he isthe head of the U.S. _inilitary j in n lraq: the
uniform alone implies authority. 2 :
= This authoritative image stood in contrast to the repre-:
‘sentatives and senators. The General’s uniform attested to
the years during which he dedicated his life to this country.
_¢ The congressmen’s suits spoke to years spent in air con-
ditioning sitting on comfortable chairs. While the congress-.
men stumbled and blundered their way through the ques~,
tioning with pages of notes before them, the General rarely
used notes and answered with authority. He clearly grasped

I found the manner cof the hearings suspect. First, how is
s any way to fight a war? Since when is it a good idea
to detail your strategy on national television that everyon

in the world can access?
If I were an Iragi terrorist, I ‘would simply wait until the
United. States reduced its’ forces, » ‘then resume - suicide:
attacks and roadside bombing..

Secondly, why should General Petracus ¢ even 1 be required
to testify? He is in the middle of not just fighting but. con-
trolling the war. Did General Dwight D. Eisenhower ever
have to come home to be * apd te by Congress “ihe
World War II? : sg 2S

page ‘advertisement
a family di: iscount, no less) for the left wing hate group

-MoveOn, Org, ¥ which questioned General Petraeus’ integrity.
‘T find it iriteresting that the New York Times feels it even

has the authority to question t the integrity of anyone whe
its own honor is suspect.»
» Remember Jayson Blair? I am intrigued that the New

“York Times and MoveOn.org seem to hate the’military so | .

much when they benefit from the protection the military.
none of 2 Z
One of the best commentaries I heard in regard to the ad
“was from Dennis Miller. Basically, he said that the only
thing MoveOn.org has on General Petraeus is wordplay
jfand a poor argument at that)..." ae
2 They substitute creativity. with being contrary. Miller’s
“view is truly insightful; MoveOn.org has nothing positive
to donate to American society, so it resorts to word games
in an attempt to discredit the general...

Beyond showing how .the New York ‘Times and
“MoveOn. org feel about our military and its soldiers, the ad,

_Shows how certain presidential candidates think... +:
None of the Democratic candidates would publicly state
hat. an atrocity. the ad was.’They want to be the next
President and do not even have the decency to stand up for
aman who has given his life to this oy Even Nancy
Hon stood up for him. «
«» Supporters of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama need to
be aware that their candidates have little respect for the mil-
“itary and will not stand up to anti- American fringe groups
like MoveOn. org. 7”

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26,2007 9

Anbar dreaming: a not-so ideal deal

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Columnist

The great success story that General Petraeus and
Ambassador Ryan Crocker brought Congress last week was
the so-called “Anbar Awakening,” in which many of the
Sunnis in the Al-Anbar province, previously the hotbed of
Sunni insurgency and the leading source of U.S. deaths and
IED attacks, turned against Al-Qaeda in Iraq. Upon turning
against Al-Qaeda, these Sunnis began receiving arms and
training from the U.S. forces in that area, working with our
soldiers against the foreign fighters who have claimed
responsibility for some of the worst acts of the war. Faced
with the abject failure of the national government to reach
some kind of accord among Iraq’s ruling factions, Petraeus,
Crocker and the rest of the Bush Administration describe this
as our new path to victory. “Bottom-Up Reconciliation” will
provide peace and ultimately stability, they claim, allowing
us to return triumphant from Mesopotamia-— as long as the
Democrats don’t screw it all up by withdrawing the troops
prematurely.

While this sounds wonderful, and it is certainly a good
thing that these Sunnis in Al-Anbar have turned against their
former allies, it is absolutely not the path to victory that
Petraeus describes.

This is happening because Al-
Qaeda in Iraq has accomplished
the impossible: they’ve made the
Sunnis hate them more than the

Sunnis hate us.

This is happening because Al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) has
accomplished the impossible: AQI made the Sunnis hate
them more than the Sunnis hate us. In fact, AQI is so barbar-
ic and bloodthirsty that it lost the support of the Sunnis even
while U.S. troops occupied Al-Anbar and the U.S.-backed
government was complicit in the wholesale slaughter of
Sunnis by sectarian Shiite militias. Months before the
“surge” began, many of the same sheikhs who had been lead-
ing the insurgency came to us for help against their former
allies.

If AQI were attempting to become a marginal player in
Iraqi politics, this would be considered an impressive suc-

- Sober?:

In about two hours, [ll be 21

years old. (Ok, this is the part
where you buy me a drink.) That
means you, Dr.-Wessner. After
Bio 111, who doesn’t need a
% drink?
' What are birthdays anyway?
Birthdays are simply arbitrary
dates unpredictably dictated by
our parents and the big man
upstairs, right? (Yes, I have a
philosophical _ side...Actually,
I’m totally making this up as I go
k. along. Can you tell?)

Well, I’d like to think that each
birthday marks a new year— a new era in my life to embark
upon with friends and family by my side (yada yada); how-
ever, as the big 2-1 approaches, I can’t help but ponder the
true significance, or perhaps the lack thereof, of the elusive
21st birthday.

Last Friday, my friend and I ventured to the Taj-ma-teeter.
In the parking lote, we stumbled upon the wonderful David
Kerns 08, who looked happier than a fat kid on Halloween.

SHLEY SEMBIWE

~

Birthdays are simply arbitrary
dates unpredictability dictated by
our parents and the big man
upstairs, right?

“Guys, there’s a wine-tasting event in_ there!
It’s...it’s...just...wow...it’s amazing! AND five percent off
all wine!” His eyes sparkled. His face glimmered with glee.

I’m a self-proclaimed wino; fate dealt me a cruel hand that
day. Just 36 hours before my long-awaited birthday, there
was a free wine-tasting event at the Taj-ma-Teeter and I was-

cess.

The problem is that these Iraqi Sunnis still hate us, the
Shiite militias and the national government even more.
They may be fighting AQI today, but they will not accept
the sectarian national government nor will they accept our

, occupation.

Once AQI is defeated, it is likely the Sunnis won’t tum
If we're going to send our young
men and women to fight and die
in Iraq, then we need to be able

to tell them why- but General

can't and neither can our
president.

their brand new American training and weapons against the
Shia and us.

In short, the great success that Petraeus and Crocker
reported is that we are now arming the same people who are
and will continue to fight American troops and the national
government.

So here we are, over four years into the war. We are train-
ing the Iraqi army and police, but these forces are either
inadequate or irredeemably infiltrated by the Shiite sectari-
an militias.

We are arming the Sunnis against AQI while they are still
more than ready to fight not only the Shia and but the U.S.
as well. Our President warns the world of genocidal civil
war and then arms both sides of the war.

Bush warns against Al-Qaeda, but Al-Anbar has demon-
strated that our presence in Iraq is the only thing that makes
Iraq’s Sunnis tolerate the Shiite— and even that has limits.

When we invaded, we needed to get Saddam’s WMD’s.
After that, we needed to preserve and protect Iraq’s govern-
ment. Now we need to stay in the country so that we can
keep arming the people who would like to overthrow that
same government.

Our strategic goals are hopelessly unrealistic, nonsensical
or contradictory. If we’re going to send our young men and
women to fight and die in Iraq, we need to be able to tell
them why — but General Petraeus can’t and neither can our
President.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N:C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.

the tale of an (almost) 21-year-old

n’t driving. Damn you Tweeter!

I think it was Dickens...no wait...ah yes, it was Alanis
Morissette who said, “Isn’t it ironic? Don’t cha think?” (No,
actually Alanis, it’s not ironic. Like my instance at the Teet,
it’s just an instance of bad luck, not true irony. For anyone
who doesn’t know what I’m talking about, go back and lis-
ten to this late-90s jam or watch a VH1 special.)

The guy I was with has been 21 for quite some time and
approached each wine station with confidence as I lingered
awkwardly behind. I couldn’t help but wonder: do I look “of
age”? In 36 hours, am I really going to look any older?

Finally I asked one of the vendors for a little sample—
mostly because I was bored, but also because I wanted to see
if he would actually serve me. I figured that it was worth a
shot, even though I wasn’t carrying an ID, let alone one that
said I was 21.

I looked to the left and gazed at station after station of
wines just begging for the taking. I finally asked for some
yummy-looking Pinot Noir.

Access firmly denied. Buzz kill. (Is “buzz kill” even a cool
phrase to use anymore?) In the process, I also got glared at
by the vendor who clutched the wine to his chest and proba-
bly has ALE on speed-dial. I’m sweet, I know.

A mere week before the Taj-ma-Teeter incident, I went to
dinner at an unidentified location for an unidentified frater-
nity’s homecoming event and didn’t get carded. The next
night, when I didn’t get carded again at another unspecified
location and drank to my heart’s content. (For all those con-
cemed parents out there, I did not drive on either occasion.
No worries.)

I concluded that while the actual age of 21 does not mean
a much by itself, it does represent a greater ideal: a right of
passage into adulthood when you can do something-— in fact,
many things— that those younger than you cannot. As mid-
night steadily approaches, bringing my last momentous
birthday with it, I can’t help but be as giddy as a schoolgirl!

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact
her at assemble@davidson.edu
