THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008 7

Summer countdown: the required film list

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Believe it or not, the end of the year is
almost here. After just a few more weeks, we
can welcome in the summer, which offers us
a complete change of pace from the monoto-
nous routine of the school year. However,
some of us like the stability of a schedule
and, therefore, this change sometimes does
not come as easily as it should. From life
back at home, to new jobs and bidding a sad
farewell to friends for a few months, the
summer adjustment period may, in fact,
prove difficult.

To ease this transition I have compiled a
list of movies to watch before summer break
begins. Gather some friends on your futon
and prepare to escape into a summery state
of mind. Watch one movie a week; watching
too many summer flicks too quickly could
result in an unnecessary shock. With a slow
and steady re-introduction to the varied
themes of summer, hopefully, when the end
of exams finally rolls around, the warm
months ahead will no longer seem like an
awkward bump in the year.

Week of April 13-19: “The Sandlot”

Plot Synopsis: Hitting theaters in 1993,
this comedy follows a group of neighbor-
hood boys who have one single passion in
life: baseball. The boys enjoy their days in
their beloved local sandlot field, but are con-
stantly threatened by bullies as well as the
deadly “Beast”: a large, slobbering dog that
lives next to the sandlot. Watch for the scene
when the boys hit the pool and the loveable

When the

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Welcome to the dance revolution. Not to
be confused with the interactive homage to
Nintendo, the DDR phenomenon, which
requires no rhythm, but incredible speed and
endurance to keep up with technology’s
rapid, multi-directional, color-coded attempt
at choreography.

Instead, I am talking about the incredible
movement right now in the dance world
which has recently struck the heartstrings of
ballerinas and breakers alike. It is the wicked
hot amalgamation of dance styles from

across the globe and time periods, resulting
in the purest form of contemporary dance
which stands for more than just a good beat.

Dance. Danser, bailar, ballare, tanzen.
Definitions vary from social and aesthetic
perspectives, but it would not be inappropri-
ate to claim that regardless of which linguis-
tic position you stretch into, as soon as the
word hits Wernicke’s Area, the subsequent,

‘Standard’ dancers at a DanceSport competion in Taipei

The cast of “Sandlot” is ready to put up a fight in the summer
Squints fakes unconsciousness for a change
to mack on the older, blond lifeguard.
Classic.

Week of April 20-26: “Caddyshack”

Plot Synopsis: Ah, Bushwood Country
Club: elegant dinners, finely manicured
lawns, Chevy Chase and Bill Murray on a
gopher-killing-frenzy. Two cliques in the
country club challenge each other to a high-
stakes golf tournament, while young caddies
deal with the politics of money, girls and

oxtrot and

most simple understanding of “dance”
describes the body’s rhythmic movement,
usually set to music.

A relatively modern interpretation of
dancing would claim that people engage in
dance forms for social reasons, artistic
expression or experimentation. And while
one should be loath to pinpoint its concep-
tion, dancing debuts in prehistoric rock
paintings in India and scenes in the formida-
ble tombs of ancient Egypt. And supported
by modern archaeology, ancients danced for
specific and myriad reasons such as religious
worship, dramatic performance, healing ritu-
als and competition.

Hekatombs and ritual libations aside, ball-
room dance from 18th century aristocratic
Europe onwards helps account for the evolu-
tionary divergence of today’s eclectic styles.
The social activity of choice from French
courts to the palaces of the Hapsburgs, balls
featured popular music from the Minuet to
the Mazurka, the Polonaise, Quadrille and
Volta, and all spotlighted the boughie youth

each other. Always a crowd pleaser, this one
will make you life.

Memorable lines:

Ty: “You take drugs Danny?

Danny: Everyday.

Ty: Good. Then what’s your problem?
Danny: I don’t know”

Week of April 27-May 3: “Dazed and
Confused”
Plot Synopsis: Hazing to the max! The

senior girls and guys take on the incoming
freshman on the final day of school. Set in
1976, the freshmen are humiliated but ulti-
mately learn a lot about the ways of life.
Look for famous faces such as Parker Posey
and Matthew McConaughey.

Week of May 4-10: “Now and Then”

Plot Synopsis: Exams start this week, so
before you get too depressed, here’s a little
reminder that there exists a somber side to
summer too. As young girls, four best
friends make a promise to always help each
other whenever they need it. It takes twenty
years, but when a time of crisis arises, the
girls, now grown women, gather together
again. The movie flashes between the adult
women to that pivotal summer of their pasts.

Week of May 11-17: “Heavyweights”

Plot Synopsis: Summer arrives this week,
as soon as you finish your self-scheduled
exams! Celebrate with this highly entertain-
ing film about fat kids who go to fat camp.
Ben Stiller plays a psychotic counselor who
uses the endearing campers to film a weight-
loss infomercial. But the campers don’t let
“Uncle Tony’s” intimidation skills and
extreme methods get them down.

Memorable lines:

Tony Perkis: “Attention campers. Lunch
has been cancelled due to lack of hustle.
Deal with it.”

Hopefully these fine pieces of cinematic
genius will ease you into a comfortable state
of rest and relaxation this summer. Enjoy!

waltz get street cred

for potential marriage. France even founded
the Cotillion, later known as the Debutante
Ball, for the sole purpose of flaunting un peu
de neon blue blood.

Fast forward 200 years: meet the modern
ballroom dancers. Blend the allure of Gatsby
and Daisy Buchanan with the impeccable
glamour of Fred and Ginger, the dances of
the last 40 years nominally involve a leader
and follower in close contact, who execute a
series of either choreographed or improvised
moves unique to the dances.

As tempting as it is to dismiss modern
ballroom dancing as a crash-course for hon-
eymooners or a social outing for older cou-
ples, in truth, the current dance world is
incredibly competitive. DanceSport is the
newest pairing of intense hours of training
and artistic perfection. So rigorous is this
dance form, that the International Olympic
Committee has officially recognized
DanceSport as a legitimate form of elite
competition.

Ten dances. Five “Standard,” including the
Waltz, Tango, Foxtrot, Quickstep and
Viennese Waltz, which whip counterclock-
wise around the room, and five “Latin” car-
dio milestones in the form of Rumba, Cha
Cha, Brazilian Samba, Paso Doble and Jive.

In the heat of competition, each dance is a -

performance, requiring a fierce change of
image, style, attitude and technique, often-
times without even leaving the dance floor.
Some couples might exceed 200 dances in
the span of several hours.

Heels and hairspray left to the divas, when
contemporary dance hits the streets of hard
core youth, it gives face to ‘serve tha kids’
and creates the wide-spread phenomenon of
a vibrant identity and self-expression.

The breakers of the Bronx meet name
droppin’ polos of the third coast and nar
skaters from the pdx, all part of this move-
ment which unifies under the magnetism of
endorphins and the allure of a hecka cool
bass line.

Gone are the days of one-dimensional
terpsichore. And as contemporary. art fit to

rival anything of Donovan, the modern
dancer is versatile, flexible, innovative and
acrobatic, trained to lack a specific tech-
nique.

Yet at the flip of a switch, he or she must
be able to interpret musical styles from reg-
gae to rap, hip hop, pop, rock, global beat,
techno, folk or classical.

Dancing of the 21st century mandates a
dynamic, non-conformist commitment to
move to whatever you get.

The truest sense of modern dance comes
only by abandoning the provincial scope of
one style, for a greater, globally-inspired
understanding. It’s the body’s self-knowl-
edge and cultural acceptance, the fusion of
an old school boom box with anything from
a foxtrot to kickflips.

It’s the song of the week, the beat on the
street, the mash ups of Sinatra and Bob
Marley. A new era of dance is upon us, so
bust out the tux and Converse. Moon River’s
*bout to roll out.

