12

Offense comes

JOHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

The non-conference schedule that plagued the women’s
soccer team has been all but erased.

This weekend at Alumni stadium the ’Cats racked up a
combined 8-0 advantage over conference competitors Sam-
ford and Chattanooga. They now share first place in the So-
Con with Western Carolina.

After its first 3-goal performance against Furman last
week, the team hoped to repeat its offensive attack against
Samford. The newcomers to the Southern conference arrived
with a string of NCAA tournament appearances on their belt.
But the home team wasn’t deterred, notching 3 more goals,
along with its second straight shutout.

As the fans still trickled in, Tracy McCausland ’09 ripped
a 28-yard shot to put the Wildcats on the scoreboard 1-0. The
momentum generated rhythm and confidence for the ’Cats
all half. Even though Samford outshot Davidson 4-2 in the
opening period, the visitors only put one ball on target, saved
by goalie Jessie Baxa *12.

The second half opened up in more explosive fashion
for the ’Cats. Merely eight and a half minutes into the pe-
riod, Melanie Smith ’09 was given a free kick from near the
midfield line. She capitalized on the opportunity, sending a
streaking ball deep into the box. Amanda Flink ’11 read the
trajectory with precision, and one graceful header later, dou-
bled the Davidson lead to 2-0.

Twelve minutes and several repeated attempts on goal
later, Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 took matters into her own hands at
the 18-yard marker. Stepping up to the box, she launched one
of the most gorgeous shots seen all season. No error can be
attributed to the Samford goalie — she had no chance.

Boosted by the offensive success, the "Cats exuded con-
fidence on both offense and defense for the final 25 minutes.
Davidson outshot the adversaries eight to five in the second
half, spotlighting both domination on the attack and the grace
of Baxa in net.

While one blowout shutout in a weekend is reason enough

to boast, a second is absolutely stupendous. The ’Cats de-
cided to up the scoring ante against Chattanooga on Sunday,
ripping five goals to none.

Bye-Nagel initiated the goal-scoring barrage in the 26th
minute, directing a cross from Lauren Conner ’10 into the
near post. While the ’Cats only took a 1-0 lead going into
halftime, Bye-Nagel again led off the offense 15 minutes
into the second half. Assisted by a free kick from Smith, she
notched her first two-goal game this season.

Over 20 minutes ticked away before the main assault
came, the back-to-back-to-back scoring frenzy at the end of
the second half. A deft pass from Allison Drutchas ’11 re-
sulted in a one-on-one between Tiffany Mumby ’09 and her
defender. Mumby had no problem releasing the third David-
son goal.

Blakely Low ’10 and Flink rounded off the scoring tally
with assists from Elizabeth Underwood ’12 and Smith, re-
spectively. Low’s score transpired from a strategic through-
ball from Underwood, while Flink’s effort resulted from a
Smith corner kick. Smith now leads the team in assists, with
five.

Most astounding of all the stats is the number of Wildcat
shots, 27, to Chattanooga’s two. The 5-0 result is the most
lopsided tally of the year thus far.

After a second consecutive weekend with back-to-back
victories, the ’Cats improved their conference record to
4-0-0, 6-2-3 overall.

While most of the campus departs for fall break this
weekend, the team will continue its grueling SoCon sched-
ule. Davidson takes on College of Charleston in Charleston
this Friday at 7 p.m. Two days later, the team will play The
Citadel at Alumni Stadium at 2 p.m.

The ’Cats will face a Charleston team with a 1-2-1 confer-
ence record, but both losses come from a pair of the SoCon’s
best teams — Western Carolina and UNC-Greensboro. The
Citadel, though at the bottom of the tough conference pack,
must not be overlooked. If the Cats can pull off victories in
both games, they will justify their current position atop the
conference standings.

THE DAvIDSONIAN
‘WEDNESDAY,
Octoser 8, 2008

alive as Cats move atop SoCon

re 4

~d

ee stl weve Cie td Te .
Kryi Bye-Nagel scored two goals for her first multi-
goal game of the season as the ’Cats topped SoCon
rival Chattanooga 5-0 at Alumni Stadium on Sunay.

Hoyt, Sanker lead Wildcats in Louisville Classic

Perer Costas
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats Men’s cross country team contin-
ued their solid start to the 2008 season with a strong showing
at the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic.

On Saturday, the Wildcats faced a much tougher field
than in their first meet. The ’Cats traveled to the University
of Louisville to race against some of the best teams in Divi-
sion I Cross Country.

This 8K race was held at the E.P. Tom Sawyer Park, an
uneven grass surface with three hills. The Wildcats finished
in 19" place with 549 points. The race included 33 teams and
nearly 300 runners so Head Coach Gary Andrew was very
pleased with his team’s finish.

“This was a breakthrough performance for the Davidson
men’s program,” he said.

Coach Andrew was especially pleased as injuries ham-
pered the Wildcat line-up, leaving the team without several
of its leaders .

“Despite having three of our top runners out due to injury,
including our top runner, Tom Divinnie, we had our single
best team performance time wise for any 8K course through
De i ees ”

a wee

Player of the Week .

Alex Hoyt ‘o9
Cross COUNTRY
SALEM, VIRGINIA

Hoyt’s 8k time of 25:35 in the Greater Louisville Cross
Country Class ranked among the ten best times ever for:
a Davidson runner on an 8k course. His performance
was good enough for 87th place overall as the team ran
to its fastest finish in an 8k event in program history.

our top six places,” he said.

Commenting on the individual performances, Coach An-
drew was excited about the achievements that some of the
runners on the team had already reached.

“Lance Harden, running in his first race since he was in-
jured in March of 2007, ran his third fastest time ever for an
8K, finishing right behind Alex Hoyt,” he said. “Hoyt’s time
of 25:35 places him among the top 10 runners ever for 8K in
Davidson history. Freshman Ryan Hopkins’ [time of] 26:02
is the second fastest 8K time ever for a Davidson freshman
behind Lance’s 25:42 from the fall of 2005.”

“We were all really excited about our showing,” Hoyt
said. “Lance’s performace was so impressive.”

“Tf you add all our scores together, it was probably one
of the best aggregate 8K times Davidson has ever posted,”
he added.

“We could conceivably see eight guys finish under 26
minutes before the season ends.”

The top finishers for Davidson were Hoyt °09 (80th/
25:35), Harden ’09 (90th/ 25:41), Hopkins ’12 (118th/ 26:02),
Greg Marcil ’11 (129th/ 26:08), Peter Bruton ’10 (132nd/
26:09), Ian Tupper 712 (140th/ 26:13), and Jonathan Koch
"10 (203rd/ 27:34).

Southern IIlinois University won the tourney while the
hosting Cardinals of Louisville posted a fourth place finish.
Next Friday, the Wildcats will head to Boone, N.C. for the
Blue Ridge Mountain Open.

Similarly, the Davidson Wildcats women’s cross country
team continued their 2008 season with a strong showing at
the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic. The Wildcats
finished in 11th place last Saturday in a 5K race.

Like the men, this race was against many of the top Di-
vision I teams, so to finish 11th out of 32 teams was a solid
finish.

Caroline Sanker ’09 led the Wildcats with an individu-
al finish of 15th place. She came in with a time of 17:50.
Other top finishers for the Wildcats were Danielle Ruggieri
"11 (47th/ 18:34), Lauren Childs ’11 (82nd/ 18:56), Heath-
er Connaroe °11 (84th/ 18:56), and Emily King ’09 (98th/
19:09). The University of Texas outran the rest of the field on
their way to capturing the title in the tournament.

The Wildcats will race next on October 17 when they
travel to Boone, N.C. for the Blue Ridge Mountain Open.

Both the Men’s and Women’s teams will continue their
seasons next week and then will prepare for the SoCon Cham-
pionships which will be held on Nov. 1 in Spartanburg, S.C.

Late goals sends men’s soccer to
first SoCcon victory

With less than five minutes remaining in regulation

and the score knotted at 0-0, Greg Macnamara 12

and Machel Turner “10 executed a give-and-go play

to set up Mcnamara’s goal which proved to be the.

difference in the ‘Cats 1-0 win over UNCG. The goal
was Macnamara’s first of his career.

