THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDay,
DeEcEMBER 10, 2008

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

Inevitably, all people experience stress
from time to time. But, for the Davidson
student, especially around exam time, that
stress can develop into a constant, day-to-
day presence. Our modern definition of
stress comes from studies completed by Dr.
Hans Seyle in the 1930s.

Seyle, a Hungarian endocrinologist,
originally designed his experiment to try
to find a hormone common to many types
of illnesses. His results showed that
when animals are exposed to toxic
elements, their bodies react.

With the onset of these elements,
called “stressors,” the body responds
with either adaptive or maladaptive
reactions. Seyle called the maladap-
tive reactions “distress” factors. This
term was later shortened to “stress.”

Seyle published his findings in his
1956 book called “The Stress of
Life.”

He wrote the modern defini-
tion for stress, claiming that is it a
“physiological consequence of the
failure of a
human or
animal to
accurately
respond to
the emo-
tional or
physical
threats brought on by stres-
sors.” These threats, Seyle notes, can be ei-
ther real or imagined.

Some stressful experiences can be thrill-
ing and actually good for the body, like
watching an intense basketball game.

“The result [of these types of situations]
is typically fun, exhilaration, a sense of well-
being, triumph, or accomplishment,” said
Dr. David Staton from Davidson College’s
Student Counseling Center.

“The really toxic situation is when the
stressful experience is too intense and, es-
pecially, if it goes on too long and becomes
chronic,” he said.

Indeed, for the Davidson student, stress
can seem like a chronic epidemic. It not only
affects your sense of well-being but your
immune system can also suffer. That’s right:
blame your sore throat and persistent hack-
ing cough on your three term papers.

Every year around the end of the semes-
ter, Staton noted
that the Health
Center sees an in-
creasing number
of students asking
for Cepalcol and
Kleenex.

Negative stress
makes us feel ill,
discouraged and

courtesy photo

ARTS

Stressed? I thought so

“The single most
important recommendation
is to ensure that your life
has balance.”

-Dr. David Staton ’69

time to study.

“Any additional study time afforded by
skipping meals and sleep is more than offset
by decreases in academic efficiency and ef-
fectiveness,” said Staton. “Getting sufficient
sleep is particularly important, because sleep
plays such an important role in memory con-
solidation, which is what study and exams
are all about.”

Though the occasional all-nighter is in-
evitable, students should try not to make

them a_ regular
occurrence. Sleep, along with other
hobbies, serves to greatly reduce anxiety.

Just as you block off time for work, breaks
should become an integral part of your daily
schedule as well. Meditation, prayer, music,
exercise, phone and television time can be
wonderful outlets.

“The single most important recommen-
dation is to ensure that your life has bal-
ance—breaks in it, changes in circumstances
that allow you periodically to get away from
stressful circumstances for some time,” said
Staton.

Dr. Staton, a member of Davidson’s class
of ’69, knows all too well the stress students
are liable to feel.

To cope with his own stress, Staton de-
veloped a set of “red flags,” or early warning
signs, that alert him when his life may be get-
ting too hectic.

Examples of such signs can include a
shortened temper, sore throat or loss of ap-
petite.

Staton encourages
everyone to become
aware of his or her
own red flags.

When students
recognize a problem,
preventative measures,
such as those men-
tioned above, can be
taken.

even depressed.

“The mental
fatigue that goes with these vicious cycles
[of stress] results in cognitive and behavior-
al lapses that only serve to increase stress,”
warned Staton. “Things like losing keys
or a CAT card, forgetting an appointment,
oversleeping or going off on a roommate or
friend in an argument could have been pre-
vented.”

Also, more serious problems such as
anxiety and eating disorders can develop.

At this time of year, students feel that
they must devote all their time to their stud-
ies. Staton explained that visitors to the
Counseling Center often admit that they
have neglected vital activities, such as sleep
and regular meals, because they needed more

Stress should not

be neglected. And if a

student’s stress cannot be solved by a couple

of episodes of “The Office” or a nice walk

outdoors with friends, a more serious prob-
lem may exist.

The school’s counseling center is a won-
derful resource that students should feel free
to utilize. Students receive ten free counsel-
ing sessions as part of their four years here.

Thankfully, finals do eventually end.
Winter break, though it seems far off at times,
really lies just around the corner.

Davidson students are notorious for their
hard work and desire to succeed in every as-
pect of their lives, yet we should all keep in
mind that our mental health is equally impor-
tant as our transcripts.

é a

Student dance group Gamut performed acondensed version of the Christmas classic

in the 900 room.

%

Pay a

Gamut does ‘Nutcracker’

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

In keeping with Davidson’s festive holi-
day season, the entirely student-composed
Gamut Dance Company made its own con-
tribution with the 2nd annual ‘Nutcracker
Suite’ performance this past Monday, Dec.
8. The audience was welcomed to the 900
Room with complementary admission and
programs waiting on their seats.

Unlike the traditional representation of
the ‘Nutcracker’ based off Tchaikovsky’s
1892 musical score, written for the 8-part
concert version of the Nutcracker Ballet
Suite, members of Gamut choreographed
their own condensed interpretation.

The show began at the point in the tra-
ditional story when the fictitious Stahlbaums
host their annual Christmas Eve party.

The performance progressed to the fan-
tastical journey which results from Clara’s
slumber. Alex Zsoldos ’09 choreographed
‘Waltz of the Snowflakes.’

Clara’s journey continued when she trav-
els to the ‘Land of Sweets’ and meets a group
of sleeping dancers. Dances ranged from
‘Spanish Hot Chocolate,’ choreographed by
Jadry Gruen, to ‘Marzipan,’ choreographed
by Alex Zsoldos. Other dances included
‘Arabian Coffee,’ ‘Chinese Tea’ and ‘Russian
Trepak.’ The ‘Trepak’ is arguably one of the
most famous dances of the Suite, and is based
on the traditional Ukrainian dance known as
the ‘Tropak.’ Susan Li did an impressive job
as the sole choreographer and dancer.

The condensed performance ended with

the famous ‘Waltz of the Flowers,’ choreo-
graphed by Michael Garrison of North Caro-
line Atlanta Dance Theater, and modified by
Diane Karliris.

Considering the performance in its en-
tirety, the dancers’ ability to choreograph
and perform such a compacted version of a
demanding and well-known ballet is impres-
sive. The costumes were generally appropri-
ate and changes were fluid, including outfits
ranging from traditional tutus and leotards,
to Middle Eastern, Oriental and Russian-in-
spired costumes.

The company delivered an overall good
performance, despite some rather noticeable
moments of lost synchronization and form.
This is understandable, taking into account
a limited amount of practice time. Unexpect-
edly, none of the dances featured a perfor-
mance on pointe, a technique traditionally
employed by highly-skilled dancers.

Furthermore, the performance lasted only
a half an hour, which, on the one hand was
convenient for attending to other obligations,
but did not provide enough time for an ad-
equate representation of Tchaikovsky’s mag-
num opus; however, given the situation and
venue, this is understandable.

Like Sparknotes of a great work, this per-
formance accomplished what it intended: a
short and sweet overview of a masterpiece
that should be experienced itself.

Even though the performance was much
diluted, it was the honest and pleasant en-
deavor of a hard-working company that gave
many moments of creativity and seasonal
warmth.

Vampires at the movies

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

“Twilight” was one of the most anticipat-
ed films of the year. The film is based on the
first of a four-book series by Stephanie Mey-
er that has a following of readers comparable
to that of the Harry Potter novels. In fact,
the movie was released on November 21--
the same day that the 6th Harry Potter was
scheduled to release before it was pushed to
this coming July.

“Twilight” tells the story of high school
junior Bella Swan and her dangerous ro-
mance with fellow classmate and vampire
Edward Cullen.

Before I saw the film, I read the first
novel so that I could compare the two sto-
ries and see how well the director and actors
captured the spirit of the novel. I was not
disappointed.

The movie follows the novel closely, and
the actors do an amazing job portraying their
characters and developing the relationships
between them. Almost every character is ex-

actly as I pictured him or her in the book.

Bella, played by rising star Kristen Stew-
art, and Edward Cullen, played by Robert
Pattinson, connect perfectly. Both the sex-
ual awkwardness of the budding relationship
between Bella and Edward and the general
clumsiness of high school are realistic and
create a true connection between the audi-
ence and the two teenagers. Moreover, Ed-
ward and Bella’s love is the love that people
dream about and the manner in which the
film portrays it makes it seem possible for
anyone.

The first time Bella sees Edward she is
struck by his breathtaking beauty and grace.
However, for some reason unbeknownst to
her, Edward Cullen takes a sudden and in-
tense dislike of Bella.

He seems to be incapable of being in her
mere presence. She plans to confront him
and demand to know the reason behind his
dislike, but he disappears for a week only to
return and behave congenially. Despite his
kinder behavior, he insists that they should

See Twilight, page 6
