. APTS &

Writer’s

By Cara WOODROOF
Staff Writer

The Hollywood writers’ strike began on
Nov. 5, when members of the Writers Guild
of ‘America (WGA) refused to produce
scripts for sitcoms, late-night TV and films.
Strikers picketed outside Los Angeles and
New York studios, demanding “residuals” -
higher payment for work that is broadcasted
online or on DVD. The WGA’s primary
opponent is the Alliance of Motion Picture
and Television Producers (AMPTP).

According to a YouTube promotional sup-
porting the WGA’s strike, writers get four
cents for a $19.99 DVD. The same rate
applies to all media sold on iTunes and sim-
ilar websites. When VHS was developed,
writers willingly endured an 80% decrease in
pay in order to help the fledgling film indus-
try. Now, that the industry is booming, the
movie and TV producers have yet to increase
the writers’ payrate. The WGA would like to
double the DVD rate to eight cents. Michael
Winship, the president of WGA East said,
“The seven-word mantra is: “When you get
paid, we get paid.’”

Nick Counter, president of the AMPTP,
countered, “The DVD issue is a roadblock to
these negotiations.”

The strike has made waves in both the film
industry and the Southern California and
New York economies. Thousands of small
businesses get their revenue exclusively from
entertainment studios and production com-
panies. These businesses provide such neces-
sities as lighting, technology, costume and
food for the film industry. According to

Rock it out

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Whether your ideal night of music means
watching the latest undiscovered funk rock
band or singing along to a group rendition of
“Bad Moon Rising,’ Charlotte’s Tosco
Music Party was guaranteed to bring musical
flavors to savor. On Jan. 26, the neoclassical-
inspired Dale F. Halton Theater of Central
Piedmont Community College transformed
into a venue for a night of eclectic music fea-
turing nearly 20 performers from around the
world.

The Tosco Music Party, less formally
known as the TMP, was created 22 years ago
by talented guitar and arts aficionado, John
Tosco. Outlined in the TMP Mission
Statement, Tosco believes it is their “mission
to present a wide variety of acoustic
music...[with] a sense of community...[and]
to provide a venue in which professional and
amateur musicians can meet.”

Tosco gained his inspiration for this infor-
mal concert from his own jam sessions at
home. He commented, “What started in our
living rooms has moved on to larger venues”
with musical friends and family. Held tri-
annually in Charlotte and again for the fifth
time at the CPCC location, the winter-season
TMP once again proved to be a musical
schmorgesborg of high quality acoustic per-
formances.

Starting at 6 p.m., people of all ages gath-
ered in an impressively long line, waiting to
claim a seat for the 7 p.m. sold-out show.
And by 7:30, the eager crowd enjoyed an
informal and friendly welcome from Tosco
himself. He quickly gave the stage over to
the brave first act—12-year old singer-song-
writer Maddie Shuler, whose soft melodies
inspired by her family (who were present at
the concert and claimed about two rows)
could rival most ballads.

Str

Smart Answers columnist Karen E. Klein on
Nov. 12, these small businesses have all lost
their revenues; some even have gone out of
business. The economic effects are massive
in L. A., reaching nearly one billion dollars.
L.A. is home to the 26th largest economy in
the world, where most TV and film-related
businesses are located.

Television viewers have felt the effects of
the strikes ever since the writers have begun
the strike, Jay Leno, David Letterman and
Jon Stewart went off the air because of the
strike, while NBC broadcasted reruns of
their shows. Nights off the air cost a TV host
an estimated $100,000 per night. If the strike
goes on long enough, daytime chat shows
and soap operas may be affected as well.
Daytime shows record about a week before
transmission, while TV dramas and come-
dies have scripts planned months in advance.
Films are the last to suffer, since they have
pre-written scripts months in advance and
more time for production than TV.

In late January, Jay Leno and Conan
O’Brien went back on the air and have been
improvising their shows since their return.
Both plan to use their time back on the air to
support the WGA. One way they believe they
can prove the importance of writers is by
showing just how poor quality their shows
are without scripts. O’Brien wrote, “Of
course my show will not be as good. In fact,
in moments, it may well be terrible.”

One Virginia viewer commented, “You
feel like saying, ‘Can these people do any-
thing by themselves, without writers?’ It
looks like the answer may be no.

David Letterman owns his own company,

Wordwide Pants, which in turn owns his late
night TV show. Accordingly, he plans to
forge a separate agreement with the WGA.
Fortunately, the strike could be coming to
a close. The WGA is having “informal talks”
with Hollywood executives, such as Walt
Disney Company Chief Executive Bob Iger
and News Corporation President Peter
Chernin. The WGA has even signed interim
agreements with some independent film stu-
dios and TV production companies, although _
discussion still continues between the WGA
and the AMPTP. Even if the WGA and the
AMPTP reach a resolution, the 12,500 mem-
bers of the WGA would have to ratify the
terms.
This strike could make a positive impact

iKIVING

ike spurs frustrations, creativity

‘America’s Next Top Model’ writers on strike with WGA

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 6, 2008

é

on the entertainment industry.

Daniel Tokle of Lakewood, California
wrote, “The bright side is that maybe
unknown writers like me will be able to get
their work noticed out of sheer desperation.
Hopefully, they will find the talented, unno-
ticed writers that were unable to get their
scripts noticed.” One man from Spring,
Texas was cynical about current TV pro-
gramming and saw the strike as a chance that
“...we might get to rethink of how to enter-
tain.” Since the strike appears to be coming
to an end, we may not gain these benefits.
However, we have learned how much we
need our writers to keep us happy, amused
and inspired.

with Charlotte’s Tosco Music Party

The Healing Force Nigerian quartet

Other performances included: a Pan-
flutist, blues duo, Americana group, all-
female quartet, bluegrass group and an eclec-
tic quartet. One highlight of the evening was
a performance by classical pianist Harriette
Line Thompson, a Charlotte legend whose
elegant talent has led her to Southeast Asia,
New Zealand, Australia and all over Europe.
As proof that music does keep you alive, to
this day, 90-year-old Thompson still runs
marathons in Aspen.

Another impressive performance came
from Charlotte’s newest trendy a cappella
ensemble, VOX, conducted by talented Yale
graduate David Tang. They silenced the
audience with a moving piece entitled
“Judgment.”

Two of the more original performances of
the night came from upbeat, ethnic groups.
Jamie Laval and Ashley Broder made up a
Celtic violinist and mandolin duo that revo-
lutionized traditional Scottish and Irish tunes
by bending the simple melodies around new
sequences and creating a playful dialogue
between the instruments. The result was phe-

nomenal.

A Nigerian African quartet called “The
Healing Force” provided another opportuni-
ty to admire the talent of world-music per-
formers located right in Charlotte. Using a
set of traditional African drums, “The
Healing Force” enacted a “call-and-
response” dynamic with the audience by
using Nigerian phrases of well-wishing.
After only a few minutes, “The Healing
Force” had energized the audience and
calmed their spirits.

Interspersed throughout the acts were five
sing-alongs. A group of 13 singers and musi-
cians performed the songs “You Got It,”
“You Belong to Me,” “I Want You Back,”
“Bad Moon Rising,” “Mrs. Robinson” and
“There’s a Place in the World for a Gambler.”
The sing-alongs added an enjoyable, interac-

, tive dimension to the evening. But those who

were familiar or unfamiliar with the lyrics
belted out their enjoyment.

Directly after the performance, tables set
up with CD’s, t-shirts and information on the
performing groups, opened. People seized
the chance to buy up the merchandise, as the
TMP shows rarely feature the same artist
twice.

The next show will be Apr 12 at 7 p.m. at
the Dale F. Halton Theater. Call
704.330.6534, or visit www.toscomusicpar-
ty.com. If you cannot make this perform-
ance, not to worry. On the first Wednesday of
every month there is a smaller, open-mic ver-
sion of the TMP at 8 p.m. at the Evening
Muse in uptown Charlotte. Call
704.376.3737 or visit www.theevening-
muse.com to learn more about this event. No
matter which event you attend, you will not
be disappointed.

BE A PART OF SOMETHING BIG!

Davidson College is one of over 400 colleges competing this year from .
January 27 to April 5 to reduce overall waste and recycle the most
to take the title. Our goal is to produce the least waste generated per capita.

YOU can make a difference!
REDUCE -— Buy items with the least packaging
REUSE - Rinse that cup and refill it
RECYCLE- Give resources an afterlife!

,

