Year event, sponsored by Asian Cultural Awareness Association

@ “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST.

© photo by. ;
shows how to make oragami at the Lunar New

<

VE «a

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

By Krista TIMEUS
Staff Writer

Last week, Davidson College
joined in this year’s nationwide
“Recyclemania” competition.

While there are several cate-
gories in which a college can
choose to participate, Davidson
chose to tackle one of the more
challenging options: the “Total
Waste Minimization” challenge.
The College’s goal is to reduce the
greatest amount of waste per capita
among all the other institutions

COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

—_-aamg. |

Established in 2001,
“Recyclemania” is a friendly com-
petition between universities and
colleges across the nation aimed at
increasing recycling participation
by students and staff and raising
awareness about the need to
address environmental issues. In
2007, the number of participants
practically doubled to over 400
schools, making it both a competi-
tive and friendly activity.

The decision to enter the compe-
tition is part of President Tom
Ross’s commitment to environ-

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 15

er Recyclemania fires up campus

Ross recently signed a commit-
ment to become a “carbon neutral”
college. This means that the
College needs to neutralize the
effect of carbon emission practices
on campus by planting more trees,
reducing waste, recycling more and
using more energy efficient
machinery. Part of the initiative is
that from now on, the College’s
Physical Plant will purchase only
“Energy Star” products, which are
more energy efficient consumer
products.

Students and faculty are encour-

participating.

mental responsibility.

See Connect, page 2

2008 SGA Presidential Candidates

RICHMOND BLAKE

I am running for SGA President because I have the expe-
rience, warmth, and dedication necessary to lead Davidson
forward.

Twice elected Class President, I have been a leading voice
on campus conceming issues of diversity, environmental
sustainability, and student government reform. Connecting
with students makes me a strong leader and has inspired me
to lobby to expand both co-ed housing and the College non-
discrimination policy. Furthermore, I have worked with stu-
dent organizations, such as the EAC, to expand eco-friendly
initiatives and to shift the focus of the SGA from program-
ming to community improvement.

Elect me and we will build on the success of Chris
Burton’s Real Talk and take real action by working with
minority groups to ensure that every student feels welcome.
We will sign a Green Contract with the administration out-
lining concrete steps for the College to take to improve eco-
friendly infrastructure in return for greater student participa-
tion in present eco-services. We will increase campus safety
by adding more blue light phones and by discussing issues
of sexual assault. Finally, by promoting SGA’s presence on
the internet, we will ensure that all students have complete
access to SGA information. I offer you experience, an open
mind, and resolve.

A Professor
| Svoboda

see NEWS, PAGE 4

Davis GREENE

As SGA Vice President and founder/coordinator of
Engage for Change, I stressed the need for collaboration. I
believe that my style of leadership has generated sustainable
change. As SGA VP, I ensured that over 40 non-Senators
participated in the decision-making process of these SGA’s
sub-committees. I also oversaw the implementation of
SGA’s Real Talk Project, revealing student interest in the
environment and diversity. This process encouraged
President Ross to sign the Presidential Climate
Commitment, increased awareness about the drought and
led to new outdoor recycling receptacles. As a recently
appointed member of President Ross’ new Environmental
Sustainability Council, I plan to further develop environ-
mental initiatives. Concerning diversity, I helped coordinate
a trip to Jena, Louisiana. In a forum held on our return, stu-
dents expressed concern about race and other issues of diver-
sity. As President, I hope to create a Multicultural Resource
Center to support further efforts in this regard. With the
induction of President Ross, Davidson enters a new era; it is
an important time to be SGA President. Having worked
closely with President Ross and collaboratively with the stu-
dent body, I believe that my experience allows me to make
even greater change as our college prepares for the future.

Beer company
sponsors

Blackout Belk
ame

wa BEER trar

JUMAOE MLWAGKEE FAM OUSe:

see YOWL, PAGE 5 |

-

SETH KESTER-IRWIN

On February .11 we will have an opportunity for change.

There is a growing rift between the student body and its
representation. ;

We need to hold members of SGA accountable to their
constituents and ensure that they fulfill their oath of office.

My refusal to promise the unattainable promises is indica-
tive of my desire to initiate the necessary changes to make
SGA successful once more.

I pledge to do all in my power to make practical deci-
sions, and making myself accessible to all students.

As a rising junior, I will not be troubled by graduate
school applications or cumbersome job searches.

I will be able to devote more time to truly representing the
student body.

Before we can make positive change it will be necessary
to fix the broken mess that is the SGA bylaws.

This document, riddled with silly errors and contradic-
tions must be remade to legitimize the institution that is stu-
dent government.

Then, and only then will be able to take our rightful place
as the true representation of the student body.

PAGE 10

Presidential
3 candidate
“ge review

"see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 8
