Tew delectable. items (one. of our staff members lamented:
the loss of chicken wings at Commons after the first: week:
of. eco a weane we appreciative. of-the effort Dining

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LLUIX LIBE ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran

&. News Editors

Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
¥ Perspectives Editors
2 .# Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
gO; Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley::
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers *
Jordan Wall, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright j
Online Editor fo ; 4
~Greg Newman *
Content Manager
’ Kelly Beggs ,
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

=

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Is it easy to be gay at Davidson?
With several gay members in all
kinds of student organizations, one
might say that gay is the new black
— highly in fashion and widely
accepted. As of late though, I would
tend to disagree.

A recent episode involving the
verbal harassment of a gay individual
gained minimal attention from
the administration and was barely
mentioned amongst the student
body. I can’t help but wonder, where
is the outrage? Why is it that an act
of homophobia goes unnoticed, while in the past, acts of
racism sparked heated debate and enormous attention across
all levels of the Davidson hierarchy?

The word ‘faggot’ is blurted out all across campus. It
might seem like harmless name-calling to some, but let us
analyze the consequences of using other slurs at Davidson.
For example, why is the word faggot so prevalent, while the
n-word (the slur for African Americans) does not, and cannot,
exist?

t=:

ASHLEY SEMBLE

Why is it that an act of homophobia
goes unnoticed, while in the past, acts
of racism sparked heated debate and
enormous attention across all levels of
the Davidson hierarchy?

Here at Davidson, it’s implied that if the n-word is spoken,
especially in a threatening matter, that God will come down
and slap you upside the head. If a racist incident occurs,
the students’ are flooded with informative, “tsk tsk” emails,
letters are sent home to parents, rallies are organized, and
President Ross will mostly likely give a speech.

All of these acts show the college’s united stance
against racism and disrespect. Where is the stance against
homophobia? Where are the emails, the rallies, and the
speeches? Gay students are a minority population on this
campus just like African-Americans, yet where is their
voice?

Well, I suppose since I decided to mouth-off about this
issue, I’I] be the “equality for all” voice of the week. Despite
my heterosexuality, I feel very close to this issue. I have a
number of gay friends and if any of them were ever attacked,
either verbally or physically, I don’t know what I would do.

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
‘WEDNESDAY,
OcToBER 8, 2008

be al

Homophobia 3 is elephant on campus

As a Jew, I also know a little bit about being a minority. My
grandfather was often called a “Christ-killer” on the streets of
Depression-era New York.

It was widely known and accepted that my parents
wouldn’t “fit in” at our town country club in the late 70s. In
elementary school, a little girl called my sister the k-word
(racial slur for Jews...this article is also a lesson in bad words
in case you haven’t noticed) and proceeded to rip up her test.
Yes, the world is messed up.

These intolerant acts are so blatantly wrong that they’re
almost laughable in this day and age; however, anti-Semetic
incidents of the past are homophobic incidents of the present.
Instead of being called “Christ-killers” or the k-word,
homosexuals are laughed at and called faggots. Instead
of country clubs rejecting Jewish couples, they reject gay
couples. This is all proof that I’m lucky to live in a time and
place where Jews are not only accepted, they’re relatively
embraced. My friends in the gay community are not quite as
lucky.

The question then becomes, how do we fix the problem?
How can the student body prevent acts of homophobia and
create a Davidson bubble of tolerance? Unfortunately, there’s
no miracle cure for prejudice and seemingly harmless name-
calling.

I know I can’t write an article that will magically make
everyone go out and hug the next gay person they see. (Nor
would I do that to the gay community. Can you imagine the
amount of awkward hugging? That’s a lot of awkwardness,
even for Davidson.) I think the easiest baby-steps towards a
gay-friendly Davidson are personal acts of kindness towards
gay individuals.

How do we fix the problem? How
can the student body prevent acts of
homophobia and create a Davidson

bubble of tolerance?

My method seems rather silly and corny but I’m a direct
product of its success. If my mother hadn’t had several close
gay friends, I might not be writing this article today. By
showing your friends that you are okay with homosexuality,
then perhaps they will jump on the bandwagon. Acceptance
breeds acceptance. And hopefully, acts of homophobia will
one day outrage the Davidson community as much as acts of
anti-Semitism or racism.

Ashley Semble ’09 is a history major from Winston-Salem,
N.C. Contact her at assemble @davidson.edu.

Elevator etiquette from the Big Apple

DouGLAS GORDON GOLANN
Guest Writer

For the first time since I have been a Davidson student,
I have encountered a situation in which New Yorkers are
more courteous than the students on our campus. When I am
interacting with New Yorkers, it’s commonplace for doors to
slam in my face or have people bump into me and tell me to
move out of the way. However, when it comes to riding the
elevator, these people are usually very polite. I cannot say the
same for Davidson students. I feel that many of them need a
lesson in elevator etiquette.

Growing up in an apartment in New York City, I think
it is safe to say that I have had plenty of experience riding
elevators. When I am home, it is rare that a day will pass
without my entering one. It is required if I want to go
anywhere.

Growing up in an apartment in New
York City, I think it is safe to say that I
have plenty of experience riding eleva-
tors. When I am home, it is rare that a
day will pass wihout my entering one.

Fortunately, since I have been at Davidson, I have had
the pleasure of taking the stairs everywhere I go. I have to
walk up two flights as opposed to ten. However, this year
I am living in Duke, and inevitably, I have taken a ride on
the shaking machine that takes me from the first floor to the
third.

So far I have found my experiences on the elevator to be

surprising. I have always considered it common knowledge
that you let someone off the elevator before you get on, but
apparently I am mistaken. I have encountered numerous
people who charge into the elevator before letting me off.
It is very frustrating and very rude. I don’t think people
understand just how annoying it is.

Back in New York, if I consistently rushed into elevators
before letting people exit, I am certain that I would receive
several nasty looks and angry comments. This is not a result
of New Yorkers being disrespectful. Rather, it is a result of
New Yorkers expecting things to be done right. They know
that in every scenario, you let people exit the elevator before

_ entering. Even if a female is entering and a male is exiting,

the person inside the elevator always has the right of way.

Students seem to have a similar problem when it comes to
entering and exiting classrooms. I can’t tell you the number
of times students will stampede into a classroom before
letting someone leave. The rules that apply to elevators apply
to classrooms as well.

While entering an elevator before someone exits may
seem like an insignificant action, it is one that many people
notice. It surprises me every time someone does it. I have
frequently considered saying something, but I never felt it
was appropriate to do so in person.

Even though elevator etiquette may not be an issue for
you, the next time you‘re waiting to get on an elevator, simply
take a step back from the door. Then, you can wait to see if
anyone is in the elevator. If not, you may proceed inside. If
someone is inside, let them get off before you enter. It’s a
simple action, but apparently one that people don’t practice.

Douglas Golann ’10 is an economics major from New
York, N.Y. Contact him at dogolann@davidson.edu.
