IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 16, 2008

Dance Ensemble gives stellar performance

By Cara WoopROOF
Staff Writer

In many ways, the Spring 2008 Dance
Ensemble was like all those preceding it.
Dancers wore a variety of exciting costumes,
stage lights magnified the mood and move-
ments of the dance, audience members
screamed out cheers for individual dancers
and most of all, the dancers demonstrated
hours of practice.

However, one thing that made this year’s
show particularly incredible was the creativ-
ity of the choreographers.

The show started with Sufjan Steven’s.

pensive rendition of “Chicago,” choreo-
graphed by Cristina Wilson. Dancers floated
across the stage as the words echoed “All
things go, all things go...” Next, “Flamenco
Nuevo,” choreographed by Elizabeth
Grundstein, rendered a more festive atmos-
phere, using “A Dios le Pido” by the
Colombian song writer, Juanes.

Dancers in grunge apparel heated it up in
the piece entitled “Money,” which featured
songs “Money in the Bank” by Swizz Beatz,
“Blue Magic” by JayZ, “Ching-a-Ling” by
Missy Elliot and “Shawty Get Loose” by Lil
Mama. The dance was, choreographed by
Minh Nguyen, Seyi Ayorinde and Shaina
Reid. Then the Swing and Salsa Club came
out with “Rueda de Casino Salsa,” choreo-
graphed by Jessica Gallegos, who chose the
song “Valio la Pena” by Marc Anthony.

One great demonstration of choreography
was David Dennis, Shantay Mobley, Craig
Pickett and Erica Wallace’s “Shades of
Brown.”

They organized 29 dancers in a dance
inspired by superman, fittingly performed to
the MIMS song “Superman” as well as
“Kryptonite” by Big Boi and “Crank Dat” by
Soulja Boy. The “Black Betty Remix,” cho-
reographed by Susan Hudson, was a rather
eclectic splash of rock and country. Dancers
wore cowboy hats and jived to the country
beat of “Honky Tonk Badonkadonk” and the

rock music of “Black Betty.”

Harper Addison and Amanda Kuker
danced melancholically to “Corner of Your
Heart,” by Ingrid Michaelson. “I’ve Got
Rhythm” was a delicious combination of
sensuality and skill.

In fancy evening attire, men and women
performed an advanced and provocative fox-

. ee

Virginia P. Boone and Cristina Wilson. The
group danced to “The Queen and I” by the
hip-hop band Gym Class Heroes and “The
Seed 2.0” by The Roots. “Preview: the After

Party,” choreographed by Josh Hamlet and

Darcie Draudt, used the rap songs, “Candy”
by Snoop Dogg, “Tell Me When To Go” by
E-40, “Get At Ya” by Chris Brown, and

Dance Ensemble members perform in piece entitled “Money”

trot.

“Inspi(RED): HIV Positive” was a serious
and moving combination of dance, colors
and music. Dancers wore white and danced
with bright red bands, while movements sug-
gested struggle, pain and death. At the end of
the dance, the dancers lay in rows on the
stage like dead bodies.

The accompanying song, “Summer: Hope
Overture” from the movie “Requiem for a
Dream” sheds light on the dance’s message,
which explores the personal and social rav-
ages of addiction. “Summer: Hope
Overture,” with its somber but driving
melody, speaks the movie’s language.

The Davidson Dance Team performed
“Name Her Rock n’ Roll” choreographed by

“Tambourine” by Eve. The large group of 34
dancers appeared to dance in a more natural
style, which looked like it was really just a
party on stage.

Probably the most entertaining choreogra-
phy was Jordi Baron, Mike Parsons and
Philip Ruzycki’s “Kiss Kiss,” which started
Act Two with a bang, when the audience
watched a quasi-music video of Davidson
College life including a Chambers hallway,
the library and Patterson Court. Next was
“Autumn Leaves,” choreographed and
danced by Shaina Reid. Then Tatenda
Musapatike choreographed a dance to
“Release,” by Timbaland ft. Justin
Timberlake.

“Cell Block Tango” packed a punch of

sensuality and violence.

The song comes from the movie
“Chicago,” while the dance was choreo-
graphed by Amanda Kuker. Carlos Ortiz and
Elizabeth Grundstein, from the Swing and
Salsa Club, choreographed and performed a
dance to “Todo Tiene Su Final” by Marc
Anthony. Then for some jazz, Josiah Rich
and his group of dancers choreographed
“Cut n’ Run” by Gordon Goodwin’s Big
Phat Band.

“Breakfast at Triveni’s” showed off mod-
ern Indian music, dance and dress in a piece
featuring “Aaja Nachle” and Dhoom Tana,”
and choreographed by Nafisa Isa and
Vaidehi Trivedi. Next, the Gamut Dance
Company built a graceful, quiet dance
around the piece “Prospectors’ Quartet” by
Jonny Greenwood.

Alice Frimpong, Nafisa Isa and Sonia
Huang choreographed “Toy Soldiers:
Inspired by the Tragedy of Child
Soldiering.”

The dance used five songs by the artist
M.1.A., capitalizing on the band’s eclectic
style. Stephanie Vertongen choreographed
“Gone Again,” which featured seven dancers
across the stage with smooth determination
to the song “Gotta Get Through This” by
Daniel Bedingfield. The second to last dance
was titled “Anyone Can Dance Like A
Jackson,” choreographed by Shantay
Mobley and Erica Wallace. The dance used
Michael Jackson’s “Ghosts,” “Remember
the Time,” “Beat It? and Janet Jackson’s
“Tf.”

Finally, seniors Harper Addison, David
Dennis, Amanda Kuker and Mike Parsons
choreographed the Senior Dance and finale,
which used the songs “School Spirit Skit #1”
by Kanye West, “Send Me On My Way” by
Rusted Root, “Just Wanna Dance” by Dabe
Cook, “Shake Your Pom Pom” by Missy
Elliot, “Sensual Seduction” by Snoop Dog
and “Rollout” by Ludicris. The seniors got a
final applause and the rest of the ensemble
came back on stage for one last dance.

Flying Biscuit offers homestyle crowd-pleasers

By CAROLINE Woop
Ants and Living Editrix

When it comes to enjoying breakfast all
day, Charlotte’s options are plentiful but
dubious. Cracker Barrel is greasy, Bob
Evans no longer appealing and Waffle House
is really only palatable after a certain hour of
the night. Private diners are even worse; visit
Liberty East Restaurant or and you'll proba-
bly be too distracted by the seedy atmos-
phere and shadowy monetary exchanges to
worry about the brown tint of your eggs. The
Flying Biscuit Cafe has arrived to change all
that.

This funky, creative eatery has been
delighting Atlantans since 1994, when
Indigo Girls singer/songwriter Emily Saliers
co-founded the original. location in sunny
Candler Park. Since then, the restaurant has
opened five additional locations and has
been featured in The New York Times as
well as such magazines as Gourmet and Bon
Appetit.

Charlotte’s Flying Biscuit venue opened
last October on Rea Road near Matthews;
housed in a vast shopping center complex,
the sterile, cold restaurant simply can’t do
justice to the quaint homeliness of its menu.
The atmosphere certainly makes an effort,
but it feels hopelessly forced: brightly col-
ored walls in green, blue and orange, festive-
ly bedecked tableclothes and even hand-
painted sugar bowls can’t seem to fill: the

empty, isolated space. The bizarre music, a
strained attempt at carefree eclecticism, only
makes the experience more foreign and trip-
py.

The food, however, is the real deal.
Breakfast options range from organic oat-
meal pancakes with homemade peach com-
pote to hearty farm-style breakfasts of
omelettes, -toast, grits and. collard greens.

.

Hungry visitors crowd the Flying Biscuit for breakfast all day

Although breakfast is doubtlessly the cafe’s
shining star, the rest of the menu is certainly
worth checking out. Tasty oven-fried chick-
en, turkey meatloaf and Coca-Cola glazed
salmon offer a slightly healthier twist on
Southern staples, and quesadillas and veggie
burgers promise to please even the most sus-
picious conventional eaters. Be sure to try
the Pudge: creamy, garlicky olive-oil mashed

potatoes at least as delicious as any you’ve
had at a restaurant.

Vegetarian and vegan-loving, the menu
offers substitutes like Soysage and tofu for
any dish and gets creative with feature
entrees like black bean “Love Cakes,” a tofu
and potato salad with feta cheese and red
onions and a Vegan BBQ burrito.

One of the best things about The Flying
Biscuit’s fare is the chef’s liberal, fun finish-
ing touches. Basil, sundried tomatoes, goat
cheese and rosemary grace the menu and add
spunk to already flavorful dishes. Although
some plates seemed unfinished, like a salad
of bare greens with vinaigrette (not a crouton
or additional vegetable in sight), most are
boldly and tastily garnished.

Rooted in southern tradition, The Flying
Biscuit isn’t afraid to take risks updating
classic favorites. Fried green tomatoes are
topped with goat cheese and an unusual
honey-jalapeno-cashew filling, a courageous
move most diners see as either genius or
heresy. And of course, everything is served
with a biscuit.

Celebrated for its legendary namesaké,
The Flying Biscuit promises to deliver one
of the best biscuits you’ve ever had, a lofty,
airy concoction four inches high and crusted
with sugar. Though certainly impressive, it’s
starchy, cloying and a bit tacky and doesn’t
taste quite as good as it looks. But after the
endless drive to get it, you’ll probably be too

-hungry to care.
