2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pd

Watson, from page |

three page proposal for how they will use
their grant money, along with a list of extra-
curricular activities, a personal statement and
a faculty recommendation. Their application
must also contain two letters of reference.
Kozhevnikova’s project consists of trav-
eling to Ukraine, Turkey, Hungary and Spain
to explore Gypsy music in these countries

and create paintings inspired by the music-

she experiences. Kozhevnikova describes the
essence of her travel as a search for duende,
Federico Garcia Lorca’s philosophical idea
that art arises from the creativity caused by
human struggle.

“Gypsy music is one of the clearest forms
of this expression,” Kozhevnikova said.

In her proposed year in Europe, Ko-
zhevnikova seeks to immerse herself in Gyp-
sy culture, “entering Gypsy settlements, vis-
iting neighborhoods, going to Roma music
bars and attending Roma music festivals” in
order to understand the spirit of duende and
transfer it into her painting.

Kozhevnikova calls duende “something
I have been following in my art” and hopes
that “transferring duende into my paintings
can help me evolve as an artist.”

Chieko Phillips hopes to use a Watson
Fellowship grant to travel to Japan, the Phil-
ippines, South Korea and Vietnam for the
purpose of working with “multiracial and
multinational children through American or-
ganizations and orphanages as well as Asian
ones.”

Phillips states that she possesses a pas-
sion in studying children born during and af-
ter Asian wars. She has studied it extensively
academically, and now seeks to extend that
knowledge to the real world. She hopes to
learn how “Amerasians” children of mixed

=
Ana Kozhevnikova '09

Alex Gregor 09

News

American and Asian heritage, are treated in
the United States versus in East Asian na-
tions. Phillips seeks to learn whether it is
possible for children growing up in Asia to
form a biracial identity.

“I know I want to work with children,”
Phillips said. “But most of what I want to do
is observe biracial and multinational children
in nations that have historically disliked the
United States due to U.S. wars.”

Phillips’s desire to study these children
also has a personal aspect. “My mother moti-
vated me,” Phillips said. “She was half Japa-
nese and had problems growing up with her
racial identity.”

Alex Gregor calls his travel project
“Water for Life: Exploring Solutions to the
World’s Freshwater Crisis.” He proposes to
go to Uganda, South Africa, Egypt, Bolivia
and Peru to study water management in each
of these nations.

The specific issues Gregor desires to
learn about are water delivery, the advocacy
of water as a human right, and the implemen-
tation of cooperative water management— an
agreement in which multiple competing in-
terests share a single limited amount of water.
In each country that he visits, Gregor says he
will be “working with a number of different
groups from small farmers to international
NGO workers to university professors and in
some cases state officials.”

His daily activities will consist of “dig-
ging wells, installing sanitation systems and
helping with advocacy campaigns to spread
awareness on health issues.”

Gregor’s project is a product of his long
interest. in international rights, international
development and conservation that he has
pursued through school, internships and
studying abroad.

His immediate inspiration was the real-

Laura Bergner 09

ization that giving everyone in the world ac-
cess to an adequate supply of clean water is a
great challenge for our generation.

“Currently, about a billion people lack
access to clear water and sanitation, and that
number will increase if we are not able to find
better ways to manage freshwater resources,”
Gregor said. He hopes that the Watson will
give him a chance to work with many people
involved in developing solutions to water is-
sues, “to see what’s working well, and what
could work better, and how he can keep
working on water issues in the future.”

If Laura Bergner receives the Watson
Fellowship Grant, she will use it to study
bat conservation in other countries. Accord-
ing to Bergner, though bats play a vital role
in many ecosystems through pollination and
insect control, cultural opinions of bats tend
to be negative.

Bergner believes that this negative por-
trayal of bats has a deleterious effect on the
attention that people give toward conserving
them. Bergner’s interest in bats was kindled
during her field studies in Australia, where
she conducted research on rainforest bats and
volunteered at a bat hospital.

In her proposed travels, Bergner wants to
“observe the cultural perceptions versus con-
servation of bats in countries including Costa
Rica, Madagascar, Thailand, the Philippines,
China and Fiji.

She will study how ecotourism and en-
vironmental education in these countries is
attempting to bridge the divide between sci-
ence and culture. Her work will involve her
with scientists, conservation organizers, lo-
cal citizens and educators across the globe.

One of these four finalists wil! be selected
in mid-March and will have the opportunity
to travel the globe and further a longstanding
cultural or scientific interest.

Chieko Philips ’09

Does Davidson need an intervention?

KeELLy Beccs
Staff Writer

At a forum on Tuesday evening in the
900 Room, students discussed social life on
campus. Sponsored by the Gordie Founda-
tion, Health Advisors, SGA, Patterson Court
and RLO, the forum explored the relation-
ship between alcohol consumption at David-
son and the campus’s social scene.

SGA President Davis Greene and repre-
sentatives from the Gordie Foundation mod-
erated the discussion. The Gordie Founda-
tion was founded in response to the death of
Gordie Bailey, who died of alcohol poisoning
at the age of 18 due to hazing at a fraternity
initiation ceremony.

The mission of the foundation is “to pro-
vide today’s young people with the skills to
navigate the dangers of alcohol, binge drink-
ing, peer pressure and hazing.”

Many statistics show that college students
desperately need these navigational skills —
the Gordie Foundation’s website states that
alcohol kills 6.5 times more students than all
other drugs combined, killing 1700 students
each year, and that a student dies every five
hours from alcohol abuse.

The forum discussed ways to keep Da-
vidson students from contributing to these
numbers.

A large part of the conversation focused
on the dangers of pregaming and the need for
a viable social alternative to binge drinking
in a dorm room.

The forum’s discussion expressed the
fear that Davidson’s alcohol policies could
do more damage than good, driving underage
drinkers into isolated, anti-social drinking
where students aim to drink a large amount
of alcohol in a short period of time.

The first question asked was, “After the
strict enforcement of alcohol policies on
First Night Down, how comfortable do you
feel at Martin Court?”

The responses from the underage repre-
sentatives were mixed. Some felt much more
uncomfortable this year at F, some thought
there was only a brief initial backlash after
First Night Down, and others saw the less-
lively atmosphere at F as a function of the
residents, not alcohol policies.

Donny Edwards, Associate Director of
RLO, said that the student body’s concep-
tion of this year’s “‘stricter enforcement” is a
problem of perception, not reality.

“In the last two months fewer people
have been written up,” Edwards said, so
the stricter enforcement of policy is merely
hype. However, the hype has instilled a more
intense fear of public drinking in the under-
age component of campus.

Students acknowledged Davidson’s over-
arching problem that freshmen and under-
classmen don’t feel comfortable in the social
scene, and as a result of this discomfort, they
pregame, using alcohol as an unhealthy cure
for social anxiety.

One forum participant described a typical
weekend night at Davidson as moving from
“secret place to secret place to secret place”
drinking in each location until you are finally
drunk enough to feel comfortable in the pub-
lic place: Patterson Court.

Some students argued that these pregam-
ing activities promote social bonding, not
alcohol abuse. “Around the Worlds” and
“Power Hours” are often weekend activi-
ties for freshmen especially, so by some ac-
counts, dorm-room drinking gives underage
drinkers the opportunity to form close friend-
ships while trying alcohol in a familiar, un-
intimidating setting, despite the illegality of
the behavior.

Underage drinking has become a fact
of American college culture, and Tuesday’s
forum found no easy solution to the alcohol
abuse that comes with underage consump-
tion.

However, the forum opened the lines of
communication to begin an essential dia-
logue about how Davidson can restructure
the social scene to keep students safe.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

move é liquid arrow: ‘from the back of the.
donor’s: pelvic: bones before. giving th

donor-a transfusion of their own previous
ly donated blood to mitigate the effects

other cancers have-a genetically matched.

family member who can donate, about 70”
percent do not.These-: patients’“lives de-
pend on finding-an unrelated individual

@ over 30,000 bone marrow transplan
‘patients who do not have matching d

7./The national | Registry | has near!
a m ion \

