6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duchess, from page 5

one scene, the Duchess welcomes a crowded
room of guests to her country home for a par-
ty. She enters the ballroom from a balcony
above the grand staircase, and addresses the
group from above.

Like the audience watching the film, all
eyes of the party-goers fixate on the Duchess.
She makes them laugh with her jokes; they
are completely captivated.

For some reason, though, Georgiana
fails to capture the attention of her husband,
played by Fiennes.

“You dream of a
world of...fantasy”
-Ralph Fiennes
as William Spencer,
Duke of Devonshire

“Well, you know what they say,” one
guest comments to another. “The Duke of
Devonshire’s the only one not in love with
his wife.” The Duke’s inattention and infidel-
ity should wreak havoc on Georgiana, but
the Duchess remains composed. She tries to
meet the Duke on a level playing field and
achieve her own goals.

The audience sees the worst side of the
Duke: he is arrogant, cold and despicable. He
frequently showers more love and affection
on his hunting dogs than on his wife.

Like Knightley, Fiennes shows mastery
of his role.

Right from the start of the film, Fiennes
allows the viewer to hate his character. The
actor aptly combines cold stares and quiet
anger to force a sense of palpable tension in
almost every scene.

Disgust towards the Duke continues
as his crimes add up: he has an affair with
Georgiana’s only friend, Lady Bess, and later

*-

Arts & LIVING

threatens to blackmail Georgiana. Through-
out the film, however, Fiennes continually
refers to Knightley’s character as “Gee.”
This affectionate nickname seems quite out
of place in their marriage, which otherwsie
lacks any sign of intimacy whatsoever. The
Duke is clearly out of touch with reality.

There are a few shots where the direc-
tor almost mocks the emotional distance be-
tween the Duke and Duchess. At their large
dining table, the couple sits at opposite ends,
separated by over 15 feet of table space. Be-
ing so far apart, the two must yell to carry out
their sparse converstaion.

A central theme of duty arises in “The
Duchess.” Georgiana wrestles with questions
of duty towards her country, her husband and,
ultimately, duty to herself. She yearns for the
freedom to choose the direction of her life,
and more specifically, not to have it decided
by her husband.

“You dream of a mutual fantasy of a
changed world,” scoffs the Duke.

Indeed, Georgiana’s ideal of freedom for
all, including women, came at a period in
history when the notion of equality remained
merely an idea.

This film aims to please a large audience.
Politics and love are juxtaposed. These two
topics are complicated enough on their own.
When they unite in “The Duchess,” the com-
plications naturally ensue.

Though at times weighed down by sub-
plots of the Whigs and Tories, “The Duchess”
nevertheless provides a wonderful escape to
a period of beautiful clothes, lavish parties
and decadent lifestyles.

Despite these roadblocks, Georgiana finds
her own happiness. The audience leaves the
theater satisfied. The Duchess takes the chal-
lenges presented to her and makes them work
in her advantage.

The first image of “The Duchess” re-
mains: Georgiana confidently walking, lead-
ing the way.

Cabinet no. 4 by
Dust Furniture

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

7 - eral sharp j jurors Picked up this testimony in 2 “ee for pasta’s complex and obscure

Ze

‘the’ rest is ‘histo
‘Porther; he aconh that since the late

sizes of pasta! ‘secca’ and ‘fresca -have ari

Seminar, from p. page 5

For those unfamiliar with Speigleman’s
work, he is a former cover illustrator for “The
New Yorker” and wrote the Pulitzer-winning
graphic novel “Maus.” “Maus” is the tale of
Speigleman’s father, a survivor of the Nazi
Holocaust—the catch is that the Nazis are
cats, the Jews, mice.

The next project on deck for us is one in
which we must devise and execute an origi-
nal method of distributing text. The example
given in class was of a poet who wrote po-
ems on the inside of matchbook covers and
left the miniature ‘books’ at bars for strang-
ers to discover and enjoy.

This week, Davidson students can expect
to see.our class projects appearing in various

th century, ypoyen350 different shapes and,

Pasta most tikey began in Italy z

manners and locations throughout campus.
Our texts may intend to surprise, provoke
thoughtful discussion or simply make a read-
er smile.

“My goal is to respond creatively to the
etymological roots of the word ‘disseminate’
as I attempt to disseminate an original text,”
Kate Wiseman ’09 said.

My own project aims to engage our col-
lective cultural consciousness of entertain-
ment culture and to examine to what extent
that collective experience will attract pos-
sible readers: Will pop culture references en-
tice people to look at a common story or my-
thology again and with a new perspective?

Whatever the purpose of the publicity of
the text, active reader participation will de-
termine the success of the project.

ersity

s

stockholm
Univ

Explore one of Europe's
best kept secrets —
Stockholm

