THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008 11

SPORTS

a —

Wildcat Pulse,

Offense comes alive in 4-1 win

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson Men’s Soccer had its last non-
conference game of the season against Pres-
byterian College on Friday at Alumni Sta-
dium, . Due to a purely offensive first half,
Davidson finished off the game strong with
a 4-1 win. On Sunday, Davidson faced off
against Appalachian State in Boone, N.C.
Unfortunately, Davidson dropped the confer-
ence game 2-1.

During the first half on Friday, Davidson
exploded offensively to score four goals in
the first forty-five minutes. To kick things
off, Alex Caskey ’11 scored a goal off a cor-
ner kick to tally his third of the season.

Keeping the ball on the opposition’s side
of the field for most of the game, Davidson’s
Yannick Pilgirm ’11 scored off a one-on-one
matchup with the keeper when he received a
punt from Chip Sanders ’12 and fired a low
shot to the right side of the net to give David-
son a 2-0 lead.

Throughout the game, the passing and
cutting exhibited by Davidson were superb,
opening up many lanes and creating many
scoring opportunities.
Caskey brought a ball to the middle of the
box and passed it to a wide open Josh Zipin
*11 on the right hand side, allowing Zipin to
register his first career goal and giving Cas-
key his third assist and ninth point on the
season.

Showcasing stellar teamwork, David-
son led a three-man breakaway at the 41:15

At the 20:36 mark;

Reiter ’10 in the box, who scored from 15
yards out to put Davidson up, 4-0.

Davidson not only showed great offen-
sive talent but also shut down Presbyterian
in the first half and only allowed oné goal the
whole game. Sanders, in his first start of his
career, registered five saves and tallied and
assist on his punt to Pilgrim. Davidson fin-
ished off the Blue Hose 4-1.

Sunday, however, was a different story
for Davidson. In the first half, Davidson
led many great offensive drives and had two
very close shots that could have put them on
the board. At the 27:28 mark, Greg McNa-
mara’s ’12 shot from 15 yards nearly went
in the net as the Appalachian State keeper.
tipped it over the crossbars. About a minute
later, Reiter fired a shot from inside the pen-
alty box and was barely stopped by a diving
block.

The first half remained scoreless but Da-
vidson went into halftime outshooting Appa-
lachian State by a margin of five.

In the 51st minute after back and forth
drives from both teams, Appalachian State
scored a header off a comer kick to go up
1-0 on Davidson. Then, Appalachian State’s
Arie Muniz drove the ball deep and sent it to
the middle of Davidson’s goal box where a
teammate collected the ball and scored in the
bottom right corner of the goal.

The pressure was on for Davidson as they
trailed 2-0. After Reiter’s third chance at a
goal, he decided to take a fourth when Cas-
key sent a low pass to Clinton Smith ’10 who
forwarded it to Reiter. Reiter sent a low shot

was not enough and Davidson fell 2-1.

“The win over Presbyterian felt good,
but we need to do that in conference games,”
said Peter Shelton ’11. “Also, I feel that we
were a better team than Appalachian State,
but we just haven’t been scoring enough and
are too loose on defense.”

Davidson has two games left that will de-
cide their seeding in the SoCon tournament.
On Wednesday, Davidson travels to Spar-
tanburg, S.C. to face off against the Wofford
Terriers at 7 p.m.

Intercollegiate’ ‘Tournament, <The: Landfall
Tradition, ee th a boost of confidence hav-

FOR

“Unfortunately, this Weekend ended in
lisappointment for the ’Cats. Davidson fin-
‘ished {1th out of 12teams over three rounds
of competition at the Nicklaus:Marsh- Ocea
courses in Wilmington, Ni
> They finished with athree.round total of
930, which was 42 shots behind the winning
Hawkeyés from the University of lowas:
The Wildcats’ averaged.310 shots per
round, about I! shots more than their aver-
age per ‘round through the first three tourna:

Davidson was led by Michael Saari.’09
(26th ¢ 231), who won his first collegiate
dournament two weeks ago in the Davidson
College Invitational. Finishing behind Saari
-were Christopher Rollins ’11 (2nd / 233),
David Fowler *11-(t37th #236), Jackson
Taylor? 12 (37th 1-236) and Adam Lewicki
7 LL (-49th / 243;
The individual winner of the tournament
was Rafael Campos of Virginia Common
‘wealth University. Campos fired a three. day
total of 1-over 217. The Wildcats. will look
to bounce back when they begin their spring

mark, crowding the Presbyterian keeper.

Mark Millard *12 passed the ball to Charlie
—

Josh Zipin ’11 scored his first career
goal in the ’Cats’ win over Presbyterian.

from 15 yards out and scored his second goal
of the season. Unfortunately, Reiter’s goal

‘It's
evireless

season on Feb, 23: Lat the Wexford Planta
tion Intercollegiate i in Hilton Head, S, ce

Davidson College

Law School Fair

Thursday
November 6th

Noon —4:00 PM
Union Atrium

Representatives from the following schools will be there:

Albany Ohio State University
American University Roger Williams University
Boston University Regent University
Brooklyn Saint Louis University
California Western Samford University
Campbell University Southern Methodist
Catholic University St. John’s University
Chapman University Stetson University
Charleston Temple University
Charlotte Law School Tulane University
Cleveland-Marshall University of Alabama
Columbia University University of Florida
Cornell University University of Georgia
Duke University University of Kentucky
Elon University University of Maryland
Emory University University of Miami
Florida State “University of Michigan
Fordham Law School University of Mississippi

Pavidson{ecure, the witless nelwork of choice (or
Davidson (cllege, is Iwvel Gor slremger encryption,

simpler loging, and Leller securily, use
[avidson{ecur e
Jer full sebip mstrucions, visil

ww www,davideenedu/ wileless

George Mason University
Georgia State University
Golden Gate University

Hofstra University
Loyola - Chicago
Loyola - Los Angeles
Loyola - New Orleans
Mercer University
New York Law School
Northwestem University
Ohic Northern University

University of North Carolina
University of Richmond
University of South Carolina
University of Texas
University of the Pacific
Vanderbuilt University
Vermont
Wake Forest University
Washington University
William & Mary
Yeshiva University
