THE DAVIDSONIAN

Track breaks records at
Patriot Games

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s track and field team
set individual records to tie with Richmond
for third place overall in the Patriot Games
hosted by George Mason University on
Saturday afternoon. The women’s track team
also turned in solid individual performances
on the afternoon.

Will Funderburg ’09 won the individual
title in the shot put. His throw of 15.31
meters set a new school record, bettering his
former record throw of 14.44 meters set last
season.

Kwame Som-Pimpong ’09 also set new
school records in the triple-jump and 60-yard
dash. His triple-jump distance of 13.69 land-
ed him a runner-up spot in the event and beat
his own record of 13.30 meters. He qualified
for the finals in the 60-yard dash with a time
of 7.19 seconds and bettered this time in the
final heat, coming in sixth place with a blis-
tering time of 7.13 seconds.

In the field events, Bryce Jones ’11 made
his mark by finishing second in the pole
vault with a height of 3.65 meters.

In the distance events, Thad Sieracki ’09
and Sam Morris ’08 placed in the top-10 in
the 3000-meter race, coming in at 8:46.88
and 9:04.05 for eighth and 10th place,
respectively.

Alex Hoyt ’09 finished sixth with a time of
2:34.06 in the 1000-meter with Blake Evitt
”10 coming in just behind him at 2:36.10 for
an eighth-place finish. Davidson also fin-

The Wildcat Pulse

SPORTS

ished first in the distance n¥dley; Peter

Bruton 710, Jonathan Koch °11, Evitt and
Hoyt combined for a winning time of
10:42.78.

Brenna Burns ’08 was SoCon Women’s
Indoor Track Performer of the Week.

For the women, team captain Brenna
Burns ’08 finished in first place in the 3000
meters with a time of 9:55.72. Because she
bested strong competition from Navy,
Richmond and American, Burns received
SoCon Women’s Indoor Track Performer of
the Week and SoCon Student-Athlete of the
Week honors.

Teammate Caroline Sanker ’09 placed just
behind Burns with a third-place time of
10:12.68. In the mile event, Megal Atias 08
finished fifth overall with a time of 5:19.48.
Finally, Amaka Obidegwu °08 also reached
the top-10 with a ninth-place finish in the
400 meters with a pace of 1:01.87.

Both teams will continue their seasons
next weekend at the Carolina Classic hosted
by UNC Chapel Hill on Friday.

in a quad-meet featuring

Wrestling loses three
straight meets

By KEVIN BIRNEY a
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team travelled to
Virginia this past weekend for a SoCon dual
match against rival VMI on Friday and fol-
lowed that with a quad-meet on Saturday in
Lynchburg. The team lost all three matches
but had several strong individual perform-
ances. Trebor Clavette ’08, Sam O’Hair ’09,
Ben Altman ’10 and Carl Sandercock ’10 all
recorded multiple wins on the weekend.

The ’Cats ushered in the weekend on
Friday with a dual against VMI. It was
Davidson’s second SoCon match of the year,
with the previous one coming in last week-
end’s loss at UNC-Greensboro. Things start-
ed off poorly for the ’Cats, as they fell
behind 9-0 after the first three matches.
Sandercock turned the tide in the 149-pound
weight class in a 4-2 decision victory. VMI
struck back with a 3-0 run in subsequent
matches, forcing the Cats into a deeper hole.

Davidson battled back, however, with
wins by Clavette and O’ Hair.

This comeback was particularly impres-
sive considering both wrestlers were com-
peting outside of their normal weight class —
Clavette at 184 and O’Hair at 197. O’Hair
also scored a major decision over his oppo-
nent with an 8-0 advantage. Still, it was not
enough, as VMI secured the 28-10 confer-
ence win.

“In the VMI match, due to some injuries,
we had to shuffle the lineup a little bit,”
O’Hair said afterwards. “It was nice that
Trebor and I got wins outside of our weight
class, but in the end it was disappointing that
we couldn’t get the win as a team.”

The next day, the team was right back at it
Bucknell, The

ME I pig

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

15

Citadel, Messiah and host Liberty. Davidson
took on Liberty in the day’s first tough
match.

This time, it was the ’Cats who got off to a
strong start with Altman winning his match
at 125 in convincing fashion. The Flames
took the next two until Sandercock stopped
the run again with a 4-0 win. Davidson was
only down 9-6, but then could not draw clos-
er as they dropped the next few matches
before Clavette picked up another win.
O’Hair went next, breaking a back tooth in
the middle of the match but gutting out the
win despite the pain. Despite those two vic-
tories and Charlie Wolff °11 picking up
points for a forfeit, Liberty took the match
25-19.

Davidson did not have much time to think
about the loss as they went up against
Messiah later in the afternoon. The ’Cats
took the first two matches and led after four
by a score of 12-7. Altman and Alex Radsky
11 both took home victories, but Messiah
came back aided by Davidson forfeitures,
and pulled away for a 28-18 final advantage.
Clavette won his third match of the weekend,
while Wolff got his second victory of the day
with a 12-8 decision in the heavyweight divi-
sion.

“I think losing as a team, despite a few
good individual performances, helped to
bond and unify us this weekend,”
Sandercock said afterwards.

“I expect us to be more cohesive in prac-
tice this week, which will get us ready for
Chattanooga.”

The ’Cats face Chattanooga, one of the
stronger teams in the Southern Conference,
at home on Sunday. The team will look to
score a big win to rebound from this past
weekend.

“We look forward to the challenge that
Chattanooga brings and hope that facing the
best in the conference will help prepare us
for the Test of the season,” Altman said.

