THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDay,
NoveMBER 5, 2008

ELECTION 2008

Decision Davidson: how students voted

By Cunt SMITH
Staff Writer

Having just had such a significant and
historic election, many may wonder how
Davidson students voted, and how they felt
about the last two years of seemingly endless
presidential campaign politics. Having simi-
lar inquiries, Professor Pat Sellers ’86 took
the initiative, and with the help of the Public
Opinion (POL 319) and American Politics
(POL 111) classes, sought to discover where
Davidson student stood on issues related to
the election.

“The goal of the survey is to understand
students’ political opinions, with a particular
focus on the presidential race this year,” Sell-
ers stated.

Were the candidates addressing issues rel-
evant to the nation? Is the average Davidson
student politically informed? Do campaign
ads have a significant effect on a voter’s deci-
sion? These were some of the chief questions
that the survey attempted to answer.

Sellers wanted to make sure that the stu-
dents played an integral role in assembling
the survey and that it properly reflected their
political concerns. Thus, he allowed them to
take the lead in constructing the study.

“The students in the classes wrote all the

Ben Van Dyke ’09 and Quentin Graham 41 make an electoral map in the Union
Atrium while students anxiously watch the results Tuesday night.

survey questions,” he said. “The students in
American Politics were responsible for creat-
ing the campaign ads.”

The ads were used to determine whether
watching campaign ads played any role in
students’ decision on which candidate to vote
for. The students were asked to rate each can-

Young Democrats

ZEKE WEBSTER
Member of Young Democrats

There are two big explanations for Ba-
rack Obama’s historic victory yesterday. The
first is a cautionary tale for political strate-
gists everywhere: Parties that can’t govern
well won’t continue to govern.

It’s hard to imagine Obama winning this
election if George Bush had been a success-
ful president; but he ran to replace a presi-
dent that has launched an unnecessary war of
choice in which over four thousand Ameri-
cans have died.

Still, the whole story can’t
be told without mentioning
what a remarkable candidate
Obama has been and what-a
remarkable campaign he’s
waged. Obama has mn the
largest grassroots campaign in
American history, bringing in
millions of donors and volunteers that would
never have participated, or even voted in
elections past.

- He is a man or tremendous charisma and
character, and he has spoken directly to the
American people about his vision of national
change and redemption, all delivered by a dy-
namic new liberalism. Thanks to the enthusi-

asm of his supporters and his near-universal
appeal, Obama has brought the Democratic
Party places that it never dreamed of going
in 2000 or 2004, and it shows.

While this is a great victory for Liberals,
it is also a victory that should have broad ap-
peal. In a school located in the old Confed-
eracy, we should all have a special apprecia-
tion for the role that Obama’s race has played
in this historic night. Yesterday, our country
chose a Black man, married to a descendent

of Slaves, to lead us. Repub-
lican or Democrat, surely
we. can agree that this is
a mighty achievement.
Surely we can agree that
tonight has redeemed the
promise of America: that,
regardless of who we are or where
we come from, we all have the op-
portunity to make what we want
of our lives.

‘T’ve lost count of how many times I’ve
been told over the past two years that Amer-
ica would never elect a Black president. To-
night, millions of Americans proved those
pessimists wrong. Tonight, Barack Obama
proved that we are the people we aspire to be,
not the people the pessimists said we were. I
doubt that it will be the last time.

Up. natil then Obama had not won any stat
that George-W, Bush won in 2004, But at that
moment CNN: epolated Obama the: winner of

didate on a scale of 1-100, and then told to
watch several ads, some of which supported a
candidate and some of which opposed them.
After watching each ad, the surveyed student
was asked to again rate the candidate on the
same scale. By doing so, they hoped to deter-
mine if the students’ opinions had changed.

With an increasingly racially, economi-
cally and socially diverse student body, Sell-
ers expected to see some interesting results.

“We have widely varying interest in and
knowledge about politics on campus,” he
said. “That variation creates a fertile labo-
ratory for examining how people respond
to political arguments and ads in different
ways.”

Although the election may be over, the
investigation is far from complete. Over the
next several weeks, students in both classes
will be analyzing the evidence brought forth
by the survey and deciphering what all of it
means. The examiners will also be hoping
to use information attained from last night’s
Election Party in the Union to discover how
student from different states voted in the
election. ©

“T think it [the survey] was a great idea,”
said Utsha Khatri ’09. “Davidson students
have a lot of varying and often strictly op-
posed views when it comes to politics and
I’m glad that these classes have taken the
time to bring those different opinions to the
forefront of students’ attention. My friends
and I have had conversations about the elec-
tion for a while now, and it’s really interest-
ing to now see the opinions of the broader
student body as well.”

College Republicans

Mike JucewitTz
President of College Republicans

Barack Obama has made history. When
he takes the oath of office on Jan. 20, he will
become the first African-American president.
The problems facing his administration will
be daunting; from the stagnating economy
to foreign policy challenges, Obama will be
tested from day one.

I won’t try to use my crystal ball to pre-
dict Obama’s first 100 days, or even his
entire presidency for that matter, for
two reasons.

First, that same crystal ball has
predicted that the Cubs will win the
World Series the past two seasons,
so its accuracy is in question. —

Second, there are so many
unforeseeable outside forces
that will shape the presiden-
tial agenda.

For example, if eight years
ago you predicted the Bush presidency would
be marked by two major wars, people would
have looked at you like you had three heads.
President Bush wanted to be “the education
president,” but the attacks of 9/11 changed
his focus to foreign policy.

So instead, I would like to make a predic-

in and “Obama! Obama! The

ee

tion about what the American people are go-
ing to do once Jan. 20 rolls around.

The American people will rally around
Obama because that’s what Americans do.
The system is paramount in our country, not
the man. That’s what makes America great.

When McCain lost, I was disappointed,
but I had no desire to go up into the moun-
tains, grow a beard and start an insurgency.

With the challenges that the nation faces,
we must build consensus to find effective
solutions. Obama ran as
the candidate who can

unite the nation, and
I say we should give
him a chance. The
voters will decide in
2010 whether Obama
has been a successful
president.

You can bet that
the College Republi-
cans will be working

hard to return Republican majorities to Con-
gress, as it should be.

Congratulations, President-Elect Obama,
I support you in your efforts, but know that I
will do my duty and speak out against mea-
sures that I feel are bad for this nation.

Good luck.

ag Det however. Mike Fuces

ident of. the College Republi

“good campaign,” and he then looked to th

future and said, # “The only ie the Repub

poses en OI

EE ee or RE Bt ncta th cacnttl
