4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni, from page I ;

same purpose for their movie, the gap
between their Christian faiths (or lack there-
of) is wide. In fact, their year spent together
as roommates was Craig’s first year in the
Christian faith and John’s last. Now, Craig
calls himself a follower of Jesus and recalls
how he gained sight and felt freed that year.
By contrast, John claims that following Jesus
made him feel blinded and enslaved. He
tells his personal story into and out of the
faith in his book “Reasons to Believe,” while
relating it to what Christianity has come to
mean in America.

“There is no doubt that the
Davidson atmosphere contributed
to the intensity as well as the nature
of our conversation...We took it all
real personally. We weren’t just
going to class and learning about
stuff for tests. Whether it was art
history, literature, religion, you
name it we would take it back and

argue about it.”

-John Marks ’85

Publishing “Reasons to Believe” led John
back to Craig to continue the discussions
they had left behind at Davidson. John, who
had made a career as a reporter for “60
Minutes,” came to Dallas with notepad in
hand for what he expected to be an informal
interview. Craig, who now trains young
Christian filmmakers, insisted on bringing
his camera crew and the documentary began.

During the screening, the audience
laughed loudly as the two friends talked

Real, from page 2

programs aimed toward eliminating sexual
intolerance, pushing students to criticize pas-
sive homophobia amongst their friends and
being more disparaging of bigotry posted on
the Free Speech Board.

SGA President Chris Burton ’08 explained
to the room that this is an issue for everyone
on Davidson’s campus and not just the iso-
lated community that we sometimes make it

out to be.
E nl’,
02/06/2008

ad ]:

10:18 a.m. Fire

NEws

about their college days and first encounters
with the opposite sex.

Their candid manner took a far more seri-
ous tone, however, when John asked Craig’s
opinions on issues of hell, gay marriage and
God’s allowing evil in the world.

They both admit that fostering their friend-
ship at Davidson as Humanities students
contributed to the frankness they hold onto
today.

“There is no doubt that the Davidson
atmosphere contributed to the intensity as
well as the nature of our conversation,” John
said.

“We took it all real personally. We weren’t
just going to class and learning about stuff
for tests. Whether it was art history, litera-
ture, religion, you name it we would take it
back and argue about it.”

Both John and Craig admit, however, that
it may be more difficult for today’s Davidson
students to have the same open theological
discussions they had in the ‘80s. They blame
politically correct language, religious clash-
es in politics and the fear of offending for
this problem. Still, they encourage students
to open up to share their.convictions and ask
questions while listening carefully to the
other side.

“Our movie is intended to wade into awk-
ward spaces, pregnant pauses and polite dis-
agreements and push to a deeper level,”
Craig said.

Craig and John will travel to 15 cities over
the next three months to show their movie
and ignite conversation in venues ranging
from churches and bookstores to the Atheist
Society.

For more information visit www.pur-
plestateofmind.com. “Purple State of Mind”
and “Reasons to Believe” are both available
in the Davidson bookstore.

This is something that affects all of us and
our lives. It should be treated as such.

“We had an amazing attendance. The stu-
dents were great participants, and students
who may not have understood the situation
beforehand left with a better understanding
about the issue,” Galloway said.

“We want to emphasize that the discussion
cannot end here. People should go out and
inform the Davidson community of what
they learned so that ultimately these preju-
dices can be eliminated.”

aah rT «|

439 N. Main St.

On Wednesday, Jan. 6, an officer was dispatched to 439 N. Main St. in regards to
fire alarm activation. The officer was informed by Davidson Fire Department that
it appeared that steam from the shower was the culprit of the activation. The offi-
cer was also escorted to the second floor of 439A by a fireman and the first bed-
room on that floor next to the bathroom had a violation of the fire code. The stu-
dent had secured a cup over the fire alarm sensor. Davidson Fire agreed not to
involve the Fire Marshall, if the officer would address the student.

02/08/2008 4:12 p.m.

ative results locating subject.

02/09/2008 10:35 p.m.

Suspicious Person

Disturbance

323 Concord Rd.

On Friday Feb. 8, an officer was dispatched to Sloan Music Building due to an
anonymous complaint of a suspicious female, approximately college age, wearing
a beige overcoat along with a pink hat, covering dark hair. Upon arrival, the offi-
cer canvassed the inside of the building and the surrounding outside areas with neg-
No further

action was required.

Akers Dormitory

On Sunday, Feb. 10, an officer received a call via the officer’s cell phone. The
caller advised that a couple of people were exchanging words outside of Akers
Dormitory. On arrival, a group of students standing outside of Knox Dorm advised
the two students arguing to run from the area. The group advised the two were
unknown to them; the two were last seen heading in the direction of Martin Court.

A

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

SGA anticipates new
leaders, fresh ideas

MICHELLE JESTER
Managing Editor

Campaigns of the presidential and vice-
presidential candidates, the STRIDE pro-
gram and campus diversity were the major

-issues discussed at one of the most attended

and “explosive” SGA meetings on Thursday.

The meeting opened with an e-mail state-
ment from SGA vice-presidential candidate
Ali Karami-Ruiz ‘09, who was unable to
attend Thursday’s meeting. He apologized
for his harsh comments on the STRIDE pro-
gram. Karami-Ruiz claimed that he did not
intend to eliminate STRIDE, but reform it so
that minority students can become more inte-
grated into the Davidson community rather
than separated.

KJ Blackwell ’09, the other vice-presiden-
tial candidate, retorted that the STRIDE pro-
gram is often misconstrued as a program that
perpetuates seclusion by those who do not
attend the program themselves (including
Karami-Ruiz). Blackwell claimed that
STRIDE actually is an outlet to discuss
diversity concerns and provides experiences
that minorities will face in real life outside of
Davidson.

After the heated STRIDE discussion, the
three SGA presidential candidates Richmond
Blake ’09, Seth Kester-Irwin ’10 and Davis
Greene ’09 debated pertinent issues, begin-
ning with the Real Talk series.

Blake believed the Real Talk series to be a
great outlet for open conversations and advo-
cated that each minority student on campus
to create a “wish list” that could be
addressed at these forums.

In line with his platform to listening and
representing the entire student body, Kester-
Irwin applauded the Real Talk program for
engaging all of the students.

Greene, who helped establish the Real
Talk series, expressed desire for the Real
Talks to move beyond discussion and imple-
ment actual change. He also mentioned a
Multicultural Resource Center, similar to the
community service office, that could provide
resources and support for diversity groups.

Changing subjects, Whitney White ’08
asked the candidates to illustrate examples of
structural change that could increase diversi-
ty, such as the Davidson Trust.

Blake suggested that SGA approach the
faculty and students in terms of their comfort
needs so that minority faculty and students
would feel more comfortable at Davidson
while Greene advocated the Multicultural
Resource Center as a structural change with
a cultural impact that could provide advice.

Regarding other issues, Kester-Irwin
believed that SGA should focus on accom-
plishing small tasks, such as eliminating paid
positions in SGA, rather than establishing
loft goals, such as the Multicultural Resource
Center.

Greene expressed concern that alcohol use
on campus, mental health on campus, and
the rise of theft on campus have not been
extensively addressed.

Blake suggested that SGA implement dis-
cussions on sexual assault and campus safe-
ty. He also advocated a change in
Davidson’s weekend culture ‘and a recom-

mitment to the Honor Code.

After the question-and-answer session
with the presidential candidates, the SGA
meeting turned to committee updates.

Katie Hunter ’10, a member of the SGA
Buildings and Grounds Committee, dis-
cussed the renovations of Cunningham Fine
Arts and Admissions buildings and the possi-
ble future construction of a childcare center
for Davidson employees. She also cited
President Ross’ climate change agreement
which stipulates that all future buildings at
Davidson will be LEED certified. In addi-
tion, she, along with Ian Mangum ’10, pre-
sented the guidelines of the Recyclemania
competition.

White, chair of the Academic Policy
Forum, suggested a library renovation to
include a coffeeshop and more carrels and
offices in the basement. She also mentioned
three future forums for this semester.

The first will discuss how internships,
research and job shadowing enrich and
diversify education. This forum will be held
on Wednesday, Feb. 13 at 7:30 p.m. The
other two forums will focus on learning
methods and strategies at Davidson and the
academic future of Davidson.

External affairs committee member
Darrell Morgan 710 talked about the
Filibuster, SGA’s newsletter, with articles
relating to the Add/Drop policy and
Admission and Financial Aid.

Arthur Etchells ’08, who is responsible for
managing the budget, discussed the rental
properties for faculty and ways to provide
affordable housing for new professors.

Chair of the Auxiliary Committee,
Brandon Davenport ’09, mentioned the pos-
sibilities of menu changes and a staff appre-
ciation day for employees of Commons and
Laundry Services.

Laura Cepeda ’10, a member of the
Admission and Financial Aid Committee,
claimed that the number of applications had
increased overall but that international stu-
dent applications had remained stagnant for
the past several years. She stated that they
are now focusing on ways to increase inter-
national student admission.

“With the conclusion of the committee
updates, SGA President Chris Burton ’08
closed with a passionate speech detailing his
frustrations regarding the views of diversity
groups on campus. He was disturbed by the
fact that minority groups often feel that they
have to legitimize and defend their existence
and presence on campus.

“Tf I was running on a platform of not hav-
ing the football team or the soccer team meet
early is absurd. But, we’re asking why it is
okay for minority students to form commu-
nity, and somehow, we’re intimidated by
these communities,’ he said. “When we
think about diversity, it is in the form of
‘what are they doing?’ and that is very back-
ward. For students to have such backward
conversations is primitive.”

Burton and Sophomore Class President
Jessica Givens 10 concluded with ardent
proposals to initiate dialogue so that these
conversations can become important issues
in all students’ lives.
