THE DAVIDSONIAN

nn

Max Paulhus-Gosselin ’09 and Boris Meno ’08 celebrate the Cats second round
win over Georgetown in Raleigh. With the victory, the team advanced to the Sweet

16 for the first time 1969.

Senior overachievers and their lasting legacy

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor Emeritus

They arrived at Davidson as relatively
unheralded recruiting class. One of them
had considered giving up competitive bas-
ketball in college. Another one got nothing
but small interest from low-major basketball
schools. The third had only been playing
basketball since middle school. Four years
later and Thomas Sander °’08, Jason
Richards ’08 and Boris Meno ’08 are the
winningest class in Davidson basketball his-
tory.

In four years, the three players amassed
101 victories, advanced and won five games
in postseason play, won three conference
titles, amassed two undefeated conference
seasons, and led Davidson to within two
points of the Final Four for the first time in
39 years.

Meno came into Davidson and made an
immediate impact. He was recruited by Tom
Izzo at Michigan State and became an ener-
getic dynamo in Davidson’s frontcourt in
his first year.

Every dunk and block electrified the Belk.
Arena crowd as they chopped their arms and
chanted Baw-ris, Baw-ris. His dunks at the
ends of the 2006 and 2007 Southern
Conference championship games immedi-
ately became signature moments in
Davidson’s championship history.

After struggling in moments at the begin-
ning of his senior year, Meno was moved
out of the starting lineup and forced to come
off the bench. The change refocused Meno
and he responded by playing solid minutes
in Davidson’s frontcourt, capped off by a
spectacular 16 point, nine rebound perform-
ance in front of his mother in Davidson’s
regular season finale at Georgia Southern.

Joining Meno in Davidson’s frontcourt
over the last four years was Thomas Sander,
the “General” of the Davidson defense and
one of the toughest players that ever played
in a Wildcat uniform. Throughout his four
years, Sander made a habit of continually
sacrificing his body for his teammates, lead-

ing the team for numbers of charges drawn
every year as an upperclassman. Sander
was beat upon by the oversized frontcourts
of teams like Maryland, North Carolina,
UCLA, Gonzaga, Georgetown, Wisconsin
and Kansas, and many would say that he
won most of those epic battles.

After injuring his thumb in Davidson’s
first-round win over Gonzaga, he stepped
up big against Georgetown’s Roy Hibbert,
drawing multiple offensive fouls and hold-
ing him to six points. In his final game as a
Wildcat, Sander scored eight points includ-
ing a huge three-pointer with his injured
hand. All this was done with the knowledge
that his basketball future would end this
spring, as the wear and tear will prevent
him from playing professional basketball.
Ending his career with a 551 field goal
percentage, Sander ranks sixth all-time in
Davidson history for shooting percentage.

And then there was Jason Richards. The
man who led the nation in assists during his
final season, set a new Davidson record for
career assists and was named to All-
Midwest Regional Team after putting up
remarkable numbers, including a 13-assist,
0-turnover performance against Wisconsin.
Despite not starting until his junior year,
Richards grew with Stephen Curry into a
dynamic backcourt that clearly ranked
among the best in the nation. No one who
watched this special team will remember
him for one missed three. Instead,
Davidson fans will remember him as a sen-
ior leader whose skills on the basketball
court made a magical tournament run pos-
sible.

Each of these seniors brought qualities
that made this year’s team possible: leader-
ship, experience, integrity, heart, toughness
and pride. These qualities did not just
appear on the court, but around campus and
in the classroom. Next year their contribu-
tions will be missed both on the basketball
court and in the Davidson student body as
a whole. But, thankfully, their remarkable
legacy will continue to flourish in the
Davidson community.

SPORTS
“Basketball Verse from Bill Jackson

"Good Friday: NCAA
and The Soda Shoppe"

Across Main street from the silence of the
sanctuary,

There is a buzz in the old Soda Shoppe,
legendary ...

Adorning the walls are varsity stars from
over two generations;

If there is a Davidson myth that lives, the
"M&M" is the location.

In this yet small, academically conscious,
college town,

The focus in everyone's mind is to get past
the first round.

For the Wildcats are facing Gonzaga in the
NCAA,

And the crowd is wincing, or shouting, on
every play.

Like an opening-night performance on
Broadway, a “diminutive” guard was the
Star,

Racking up 30 points in the second half, as
the red-and-black raised the bar ...

‘Tis written: it matters not whether you win
or lose--but how you play the game.

NOT this season, for the curse is broken,
life-after-Lefty has suddenly been regained!

‘ = . -

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008 9

- 2

Sweet Caroline...

The very physical blue and gray giants from
Georgetown entered the second round

As heavy favorites, in sportswriter lingo: a
No. 2 seed versus a mere No. 10 seed.

They got off to a roaring start, shooting the
lights out ... a seventeen-point lead;

And, well into the second half, the pushy
big guys were seemingly victory bound.

But a funny thing happened on the way to
the next round in Detroit, the motor city:

There stood a Zeus-like Olympian god in
the way, cool, sweet-shot Stephen Curry.

With the thunderbolt as his sign, the rain-
bow as his messenger, he sunk a bunch of
threes;

Cheered on by Davidson red and Carolina
powder blue, he shot over the towering
trees.

While his teammates forced turnovers, took
the charges, and executed assists on offense,

He (and Richards) fluidly overcame the her-
alded low-percentage shot, stingiest defense.

With five minutes to go, the Wildcats caught
the fouling Hoyas (what?) for the first time;

The multinational whiz kids did not look
back, and soon were singing “Sweet
Caroline.”

They won’t be singing “There Goes Old
Georgetown” in Motown!

Bryant Barr ‘10 smiles for the camera during Thursday’s practice at Ford Field in
Detroit. Barr gave the ‘Cats a huge lift off the bench in the Regional Final scoring
11 points, including three three-pointers, in the loss to Kansas.
