14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

Aromatherapy may offer relief for stressed students

By CAROLINE Woop
Arts & Living Editor

Most of us have heard about aromathera-
py, whether from our Herbal Essences label
or a heavy library tome devoted to alterna-
tive medicine, but fewer may know about the
history and science of the popular practice
and how easily one can experiment with it.
Most aromatherapy is based on the use of
essential oils, highly concentrated plant
extracts that may be harvested by steam dis-
tillation, cold-press expression or solvent
extraction. Possible avenues of aromathera-
py are endless, from massage to baths to
compresses,

Essential oils have a long history of uses in
cultures around the globe. They were includ-
ed in the ancient Egyptian embalming
process, appeared in Biblical annointment
recipes and serve an integral role in Indian
Ayurvedic medicine. The 10th century
Persian physician Avicenna worked exten-
sively to refine essential oil distillation meth-
ods, and Hippocrates himself championed
the medicinal benefits of aromatherapy in his
writing.

Today, professional practitioners perform
medicinal aromatherapy treatments for a
wide range of psychological and physical
ailments, and essential oils are occasionally
used to complement reflexology (the system-
atic manipulation of pressure points on the
hands and feet). Many people choose to

complement their conventional allopathic
medicine with aromatherapy self-treatment.
The rich aromas are also popular for their
aesthetic appeal, and essential oils are com-
mon in skin, hair and beauty products, mas-
sage oils, perfumes and natural air freshen-
ers.

Pure essential oils, which may be pur-
chased at natural foods stores and vitamin
shops or online, can be used in a number of
ways:

Blend them with vegetable or olive oil for
a foot, hand or scalp massage, mix them into
shower products, sprinkle them on your pil-
low or diffuse them with a plug-in or candle
diffuser.

The medicinal benefits of aromatherapy
are numerous but disputed, and different pro-
posed properties have been tested and upheld
with varying levels of success.Supporters
claim that the oils, which effectively pene-
trate body tissues and cell walls, are useful in
the detoxification and oxygenation of cells.
Several essential oils contain powerful
antioxidants, and diffusing them may help
improve air quality by reducing toxins and
increasing negative ions (think salt crystal
lamps).

All medical claims aside, the emotional
and psychological effects of aromatherapy
are well documented. A beautiful, calming
smell can cheer you up, calm you down or
help you prepare for a busy, difficult day.
Some oils that may be particularly useful for

the everyday ailments of the Davidson stu-
dent:
Relaxation/ Sleep aid: Lavender
Stress relief: Bergamot (also found in
Earl Grey tea)
Headaches: Peppermint or Rosemary
Menstrual cramps: Clary sage
Increased energy: Fir
Essential oils should be used with care and
caution; some are quite strong and may
cause skin irritation if undiluted.
Essential ot!s should never be taken inter-

nally, except when prescribed by a licensed
physician (which only happens in France),
and if any negative side effects arise, stop
using the oil immediately and consult your
doctor.

Most essential oils sell at natural food
stores like The Home Economist or Earth
Fare for between $4-15 per 10 milliliter bot-
tle, which will last months or even years
depending on how much you use.
Experiment with one or a couple, and you
may be glad you did.

Metivect, Bt
peer, Cla

Aromatic extracts are harvested from countries across the globe

Speed dating promotes healthy community relationships

By JAMIE KNOWLES
Guest Writer

It is all too common that we, both as indi-
viduals and as a student body, bemoan the
dating environment on campus. To many stu-
dents, it seems that we must either partici-
pate in the hookup culture of the Court or
commit to a serious relationship that is ulti-
mately headed to the altar. This year’s Third
Annual Speed Dating Mixer, sponsored by
the Student Health Advisors, sought to create
a laid-back atmosphere through which stu-
dents could get to know each other as
acquaintances, friends and possibly lovers.
Although the turnout was not as high as
years past (last year boasted more than 80

students), the event promised good food,
good laughs and a few awkward moments
for all in attendance.

AS an inexperienced speed-dater, J was
completely unprepared for the sublime times
that awaited me as I approached the Sprinkle
Room last Wednesday. I was fairly con-
cemed about my own performance and how
introductions would go for a novice like me,
so I have to admit that I prepared a few ques-
tions in the case that conversation proved
difficult. These were my top three:

Salt or Pepper?

Do you have a tat?

Do you play an instrument?

Clearly, these questions can salvage any
conversation, no matter how awkward, and

uae

Students enjoy getting to know one another at the 3rd Annual Speed Dating event

they inspired scintillating conversation for
all attendees participating, just as they will
for those who try them out at home.

After chatting with everyone in their
assigned rotation, all of the speed-daters
were invited to celebrate and mingle over
juice and cake. The sparkling cider and grape
juice completely changed the Sprinkle room
into a xanadu of seduction and romance. By
the second drink, everyone had begun to
loosen up. For awhile, it seemed like we
were all old friends, regaling each other with
our own trysts, secret weapons and failed
attempts at romance. One student opened up
and shared a family motto: “My mom tells
me, “No glove, no love.’”

All it took was a few minutes with each

student and a few short rotations around the
room, and we had created our own micro-
cosm of trust on the Davidson College cam-
pus. Although I cannot predict with certainty
whether any lasting relationships will
emerge from the mixer, I can definitively say
that it was a nice change to have intimate dis-
cussions with new acquaintances. There was
an earnestness and sincerity among all of the
participants; everyone was open to sharing
their experiences and willing to talk thought-
fully about the pros and cons of our cam-
pus’s dating scene. In a time when we as a
campus are struggling with so many issues
of discrimination and social tension, I found
it particularly interesting and refreshing to
hear the group discuss how bi-racial or uni-
racial relationships are perceived by the stu-
dent body, how they relate to campus life and
how the situation can improve.

Maybe next year you will consider going
to the Fourth Annual Speed Dating Mixer.
Set aside any preconceived notions you may
have and come with an open mind. And
maybe, if you do succeed at letting your
guard down, you will make a new best friend
or find a new love.

hips and sion Eecloment: it
filin doomed to become dated by i its ‘tech

