4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Bank of America senes
confronts environment

By DANIEL VAN OQUDENAREN
Staff Writer

Dr. Thomas Homer-Dixon visited
Davidson Jan. 24 to deliver the third of the
2007-08 Bank of America Lecture Series, on
“Principles, Power, and the Future of
American Leadership: Environmental Stress,
Security and American Leadership.”

The free lecture was open to the public,
and attended by students who also had thee
opportunity to meet the speaker at the Dean
Rusk Breakfast Series. Homer-Dixon visited
the class “Terrorism in the 21st Century” and
met again Friday with students at a teatime
event at Dr. Chris Alexander’s house.

Homer-Dixon is a leading expert on envi-
ronmental scarcity and violent conflict. He
is Director of the Trudeau, Centre for Peace
and Conflict Studies at the University of
Toronto.

Homer-Dixon has led international collab-
orations to study the effects of environmen-
tal scarcity and climate change on violent
conflicts, mostly on a sub-national level.

In the 1990s, Homer-Dixon led the Project
on Environment, Population and Security
and the Project on Environmental Scarcities,
State Capacity, and Civil Violence, for which
he produced much of his academic writing.

Homer-Dixon is also the best-selling
author in Canada of The Ingenuity Gap, win-
ner of the 2001 Governor General’s Non-fic-
tion Award, and The Upside of Down:
Catastrophe, Creativity and the Renewal of
Civilization, which won the 2006 National
Business Book Award.

His visit marks the first time that Homer-
Dixon, a native of Vancouver Island,
Canada, has visited this part of the United
States. The lecture was held on a particular-
ly cold night, and the speaker remarked
humorously that he was always more hesi-
tant to speak about climate change to a
crowd in the winter.

Homer-Dixon spoke primarily on the lat-
est findings of climate science, on how envi-
ronmental stresses create new grievances
and new opportunities for violence and on
American leadership.

“More severe climate change will lead to
more severe conflict,’ Homer-Dixon said,
stressing the need for America to participate
and lead in global climate initiatives before
climate change creates greater problems for
vulnerable societies.

“Climate change is a hard security issue,
not a soft security issue,” he said.

The lecturer underscored the gravity of
global environmental stresses by referencing
findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change released last February, and
with other current data.

Homer-Dixon also emphasized that trends
in global warming are not likely to be linear
so that warming could actually be more
extreme than some models have shown. To
support this, he stated that the extent of
Arctic sea ice in 2007 was much less than in
previous years, a complete outlier from the
trend as recorded since 1979.

Homer-Dixon led the audience through a
demonstration of why extreme weather
events are more likely in a warmer planet,
showing how statisticians might work with a

frequency distribution model. He spoke of
energy sources and the challenges of reduc-
ing carbon emissions to help address envi-
ronmental stress.

“We need a set of institutions, especially
for economic actors, that will create a set of
incentives to reduce carbon emissions,”
Homer-Dixon said, envisioning some sort of
international carbon market.

As a Canadian, Homer-Dixon spoke of an
international desire to see America lead this
initiative.

“America has been AWOL,” Homer-
Dixon said at the beginning of his lecture.

He also commented at the end that it was
not through the “sharp edge of hegemony”
that America could best lead—that is, by
throwing about its military and economic
weight—but through “its entrepreneurship
and its values and its optimism.”

A reception and book-signing awaited
attendees when the lecture ended. Mark
Edwards of the Canadian Consulate in
Raleigh was on hand with materials on the
trade and security partnerships between the
United States and Canada.

At the end of the lecture Ethan Case ’08
asked about the Energy Return on
Investment (EROI) of ethanol, which
Homer-Dixon put at nearly 1-to-1.

Homer-Dixon was very negative about
corn ethanol, but not about sugar-cane
ethanol being produced in Brazil, which has
an EROI of about 8-to-1.

Suzie Eckl ’10 asked what the college
administration could do to make a difference
in climate change.

Homer-Dixon wandered just a minute
through a musing reply, not sure what had
already been done, before he shot back with
an impromptu question of his own.

“Do you have any solar panels on cam-
pus?” Homer-Dixon asked.

“No,” a student replied.

“There’s not a single solar panel on cam-
pus?” Homer-Dixon asked again.

“Not one,” a few disappointed audience
members said.

!

Homer-Dixon implored Americans to
use their resources appropriately.

Soup, from page 2

Nick Carney ’11 and member of Engage
for Change, thoroughly enjoyed the event
and got to taste all the winning soups.

“The variety was spectacular and all of the
soups were potential winners — it was hard to
pick one to win,” Carney said.

The winners were Brickhouse Tavern’s
Chicken and Corn Chowder for Best Overall,
Maddi’s Southern Bistro’s Roasted Garlic

and Brie Soup for Best Creamy, Restaurant
X’s Chili for Best Chunky and Max and
Erma’s Chicken Tortilla Soup for Most
Creative.

But, according to Carney, it was the idea
behind the event, not merely the delicious
soups, that truly motivated people’s partici-
pation.

The fusion of service and enjoyment at the

heart of this event makes it a fun way to give’

back to the community.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

President Ross and

SGA.

Real Talk about diversity

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

President Tom Ross and Second Belk hall
counselor Cameron Barr °09 spoke at
Thursday’s SGA meeting to kick off the Real
Talk focus on diversity.

SGA Vice President Davis Greene °09
introduced the Real Talk Project last semes-
ter as a way of encouraging discussion about
issues of concern to the student body that
SGA does not typically cover.

The first Real Talk discussion centered on
Davidson’s environmental policy, but stu-
dents also indicated diversity as an important
issue on a survey distributed last fall.

“We want to really be people of our word
in terms of what we discussed last semester,”
SGA President Chris Burton ’08 said. “We
are engraining and building upon the founda-
tions of the college community.”

Ross said that he came to understand the
value of diversity as a judge and as the exec-
utive director of the Z. Smith Reynolds
Foundation and encouraged senators to pro-
mote conversation about campus diversity.

“People need to understand why diversity
enriches a community,” Ross said. “The
issues are there whether you talk about them
or not. This will be a healthier community if
you talk about them.”

Barr spoke to senators about the
Residence Life Office’s (RLO) own initia-
tive to promote diversity.

After speaking about the importance of
diversity at the Opening Convocation in
September, Ross turned to the RLO because
he believes the conversations need to start on
residence halls.

Before the spring semester started, RLO
staffers met for six hours of training, half of
which were devoted to diversity.

In an effort to create what Barr calls an
“organic community-wide approach,” facul-
ty and staff have created a committee and are
asking for students to put together their own
groups of 20 to 25 people.

At the SGA meeting, Barr recruited sena-
tors to serve on this committee.

Interested faculty, staff and students will
meet on selected Saturdays to brainstorm
ways of spreading conversation about diver-
sity on campus.

Professionals will train committee mem-
bers in methods for approaching discussions
on diversity.

According to Barr, students on the com-
mittee must be willing to go beyond the plat-
itudes typically associated with such conver-
sation.

Instead, the committee will “go to the stu-
dent body and make this an issue that won’t
go away.”

Mordecai Scott °10 expressed concern
over whether students would actually attend
conversations held on residence halls.

Yet Richmond Blake ’09 told senators
they would be “amazed at how this will filter
through the community.”

Blake cited the success of Whitney
White’s ’08 in making SGA a more diverse
body as a source of encouragement for the
project.

Ian Mangum ’10 asked if anything could
be done about the often offensive comments
on the Free Speech Board, which “might set
people back and push people back to their
respective corners.”

Other senators, however, supported the
Free Speech Board as a way of gauging how
much work there is to do on campus.

“Tt might be uncomfortable, and it might
be embarrassing if a tour group walks by, but
ultimately it’s a healthy thing,” Arthur
Etchells ’08 said.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley suggested
that Just Peace, the organization that set up
the Free Speech Board in the Union, speak at
a future SGA meeting.

Senators also debated an allocation to the
Spanish Department for Sacred Steps, an
upcoming photography exhibition about the
journey of modern pilgrims from the United
States and Canada through northern Spain.

Assistant Professor of Spanish Samuel
Sanchez-Sanchez wrote to SGA to request
$300 for the project.

He also said that the Spanish department
was seeking funds from the Organization of
Latin American Students, the Davidson
International Association and the Dean Rusk
Program.

Many senators said that, since the project
did not actually involve SGA, SGA should
not contribute funds from its own budget.

SGA Treasurer Blake Poole ’08 suggested
that SGA represent the project to the
Activities Tax Council and ask for a special
allocation rather than giving its own money.

According to Poole, this policy would set
a precedent of co-sponsoring among student
organizations.

White agreed with Poole.

“This is a good example of guiding how to
go to the ATC,” White said. “It’s a teaching
moment for us.”

Poole agreed to work on the project with
ATC representatives Jessica Givens ’10,
Shivani Dasani ’10 and Rachel Winston ’10.

The meeting also included the swearing-in
of new Patterson Court representatives and
junior class senators.

Kate Sternstein ’09 and Brian Aoyama ’09
were elected junior class senators, and
Richmond Blake ’09 was voted an independ-
ent senator.

