THE DAVIDSONIAN

¢@s

poyeotting "Beijing
a foolhardy move

“China's time to shine has
come. After so many years of eco-
nomic accession, the. People’s
Republic has jostled its way onto
the world stage and is now ready
for its big coming-out party: the
Beijing 2008 Olympics. :
=. But China's step into the spot-
light has not revealed the gleam-
ing new nation its leaders wanted
to portray.

Instead, China’s recent interna-
fg tional scrutiny has exposed some
< serious human rights problems-
hurdles the state may not be able

leap j just yet. :
» Recent protests and crackdowns in Tibet and China's
Sichuan province have flooded the international media. It
seems that not a day goes by without a story of an extin-
guished torch ora silenced protest: Reports out of China
have been scant since many reporters have: found them
selves stripped of their access to certain regions.”
But this is only the beginning of China's big-top blues.
Just Monday, Amnesty International released a report, find-
ing that executions have remained the highest in the world,
at a time when capital punishment is receding worldwide.
China's police have continued to keep tabs on Internet users,
‘reporters and other potential subversives. Tales of economic
misery and repression continue to pour out of the ethnically
diverse: Chinese. hinterlands-not only Tibet, but -also. th

‘Add to all that recen S. anger over shoddy toys, phar-
maceuticals and slip-shad importing and you have a mess.
The. solution, ringing from Hollywood. to: Washington and
France seems to be a boycott of the opening ceremonies
Proponents of such a boycott argue that this action wi
send a powerful political message to China without risking
much on. our side. House. Majority: Leader. Nancy’ Pelosi
insists that the United States has the moral duty to reprim:
China for ifs human rights violations through a boycott.
She claims this move would rob China of the respect.
has so dearly sought. Boycotting China's big date, howeve: :
would be the wrong move for U.S. foreign policy.
While Pelosi is dead-on in affirming that human rights
‘policy should not change depending on the economic or mil-
itary-importance of the country in question, her proposal
lacks nuance and could have some dangerous consequences.
A: boycott of the opening ceremonies would place the
US:.in a position of severe disrespect and only:confirm
‘what Chinese authorities have suspected about American
power, The U.S. would be excoriated as ignorant and self:
serving, while China may see no more need to open up
_» Indeed, robbing China of respect. through a boycott
tisks ‘losing. some of the transparency .and leniency the
Chinese government has recently seen it prudent to show,
Having lost the West's respect, China may see no need ty
follow its policy dictates anymore. a
_ Stringing together a U.S. boycott with a thread of other
an i-Western tales would. also firm up anti-U.S: sentiment
‘within the Chinese. Politburo , making them more intractable
both socially and economically.::." 7
Especially, in these: tough times, the U. s. cannot. risk
offending a country that may well be able to pull the eco-
nomie mg out from under it: Sales of Chinese imports make
up a vast amount. of the U &. “economy and cannot be lightly
toyed with, ;
So let's take a step back from some of the China-bash-
ing. While it's true Tibet, the undervalued yuan and execu-
tions are huge policy issues and need to be. addressed, its
very doubtful any of them would have caught fire in the
media if China had not been accorded so much respect w with
the Olympic games..."
©. As China emerges i into the bright light of the- interna-
tional community, it. will realize that liberalizing measures
are necessary: to maintain a stable government. Already,
China has taken steps to open itself up and the U. S: would
be foolish to reject this furtive advance
Drop this talk of boycotts and. bans. The only way to
play ball with China is to allow it.this degree of exposure
and, yes, respect. That way, human rights violations and pol-
lution problems can come to light, rather than remain hiddea
der a smog-cloud of secrecy.
“Don't ruin this Olympic ‘opportunity ‘before. the first
starter's pistol has fired. It's h rd to imagine China will
well to. a false start,

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 2008

Davidson students to blame for low GPAs

KEVIN CooK
Guest Columnist

Last week’s article, “Davidson’s GPA lower than peers,”
comes to many as “proof” that there is significant grade
deflation at Davidson College. However, what is not being
talked about is the possibility that students are failing to take
ownership of their marks.

The popular opinion on campus is that we bend over back-
wards for B’s while students at other schools get A’s handed
to them.

This issue highlights two of the biggest problems on our
campus: a culture of excuses and a sense of entitlement.

Ask just about any Davidson student you run into about
the statistics in last week’s paper, and they'll tell you, mat-
ter-of-factly, that they’re the result of grade deflation.

This type of thinking is like someone running a race, com-
ing in last and then claiming that the only reason they did so

The popular opinion on campus
is that we bend over backwards
for B’s while students at other
schools get A’s handed to them.
This issue highlights two of the
biggest problems on our campus:
a culture of excuses and a sense

of entitlement.

badly is because their shoes slowed them down.

Disregard the notion that the other runners might be
faster, because at Davidson College, that’s not a possibility.
No, the only possible answer to Davidson’s finishing last
amongst other peer institutions is grade deflation. Why?
Because it’s Davidson of course; and that’s a sufficient
answer.

The problem is that most Davidson students have never
been to another institution. We can not say definitively, one

way or the other, if an English class at Richmond or Duke is
graded the same way it is here.

All we can say for sure is that Davidson was significantly
behind its peer institutions in terms of GPA. Thus, thinking
logically, one has to assume that this could be the result of a
variety of causes, not just the convenient excuse of grade
deflation.

One explanation for our lower GPA is that the average
Davidson student simply can not perform as well as their
peers.

Many defenders of the “grade deflation” hypothesis will
reject this theory immediately, citing the fact that incoming
Davidson students and incoming students at the peer institu-
tion are very similar in terms of the quality of their high
schools, SATs, and GPAs.

Therefore, they argue that our grades essentially should be
the same, or at Jeast very close.

However, one must wonder what is happening to the stu-
dents during their four years at college. Perhaps they were
equal upon entering, but clearly they are not equal upon exit-
ing.

Many will jump up simultaneously and exclaim “grade
deflation!” They automatically discount the possibility that
the students at other institutions had a better education, or a
better learning experience. To them the only possible answer
is that “grade deflation” held us back.

To go back to my running analogy, if the runner loses the
race, he or she cannot solely blame their shoes for holding
them back; they must take into account that there is a possi-
bility that the other runners were either faster, or trained bet-
ter.

But somehow, at Davidson, we don’t do this. We’re only
worried about the shoes.

At Davidson, we love rallies and we love activism. I pro-
pose that we have a “Rally for Humility”. We can do it at
Commons one night, and we can even ask the Commons
staff to provide dessert. I would suggest they make a giant
humble pie, so that everyone on campus could take a big ol’
bite.

Kevin Cook ’09 is a Biology and Political Science major
from Syracuse, N.Y. Contact him at kecook@davidson.edu.

Obama’s elitism threatens his success

‘ At the moment, Sen. Barack
“ Obama has a strong claim to the
Democratic presidential nomi-
nation—more delegates support
him than Sen. Clinton. He leads
her in the popular vote and has
won more states.

Add to these quantifiable
claims Sen. Obama’s assump-
tion of what has become the
4 customary attitude of
ri Democratic presidential nomi-

- nees: elitism.

At a fundraiser in San
Francisco, Sen. Obama offered
this explanation for his failure to appeal to Pennsylvania
Democrats:

“You go into some of these small towns in Pennsylvania,
and like a lot of small towns in the Midwest, the jobs have
been gone now for 25 years and nothing’s replaced them.
And it’s not surprising that they get bitter, they cling to guns
or religion or antipathy to people who aren’t like them or
anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to
explain their frustrations.”

According to Sen. Obama, the responsibility for his failure
to appeal to the rural and working classes lies not with him
but with the voters.

He implies that if these voters were not so bitter or preoc-
cupied with guns, religion and xenophobia, they would sup-
port his candidacy. Thus, he inverts the rightful roles of the
voter and the candidate in a democracy.

Furthermore, Sen. Obama refuses to entertain the idea that
thoughtful individuals could be cultural conservatives.
Instead, Sen. Obama diagnoses cultural conservatism as a
psychological byproduct of their poor economic condition.

By his logic, if Pennsylvania Democrats had a better eco-
nomic lot, their religious faith or their support of the right to
bear arms would evaporate.

Just as Karl Marx disdained religion, Sen. Obama regards
cultural conservatism as an “opiate of the masses.” Perhaps
if they were not so intoxicated, Pennsylvania Democrats
would support him.

Worse than culturally conservative, according to Sen.
Obama, Pennsylvania Democrats are hateful. They hate not
only immigrants but simply those who are not like they are.

4 vox libertatis 3

Has Sen. Obama considered the possibility that
Pennsylvanians simply prefer Sen. Clinton over him? If he
has, “antipathy to people who aren’t like them” would seem
to him a better explanation of his unpopularity among rural
and working class Pennsylvanians.

Not surprisingly, Sens. Clinton'and McCain have excori-
ated Sen. Obama for his condescension. After the McCain
campaign cited this comment as evidence of an inability to
relate to the American people, Sen. Obama cited Sen.
McCain’s reticence to use government to stimulate the econ-
omy as evidence of an inability to relate to the American
people.

Evidently, to Sen. Obama, relating to the American people
means not sharing their cultural values but ensuring their
economic welfare.

Indeed, Sen. Obama would seemingly contend that, by
ensuring the economic welfare of rural and working class
Americans, he would diminish their bitterness and synony-
mous cultural conservatism. Maybe they would better
receive him when he runs for reelection.

According to Sen. Obama, the
responsibility for his failure to
appeal to the rural and working
classes lies not with him but
with the voters.

Sen. Obama has run on his ability to end the partisanship
that characterizes Washington, D.C. and to unite the country.
When has demeaning the cultural convictions held by much
of the electorate unified the country?

Barack Obama’s inability to consolidate support for his
candidacy lies not in convincing the American people of his
merits. On the contrary, the obviously intelligent Obama has
offered an inspiring vision for America’s future with grand
oratory.

To many who do not support Sen. Obama, he seems too
grand, too ethereal, too elite. Perhaps Barack Obama
agrees.

Zach Bennett ’ll is a Political Science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.
