THE DAVIDSONIAN
Lite —

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008 17

Questionable progress Obama keeps anti-American company

"in religious diversity

“CHARLES HORWITZ AND NAEISA ISA:
~, Guest Columnists .

Three years ago, Davidson College took.a long-overdue:
“step forward by allowing non-Christians to serve. on its
Board of /Trustees,: The overwhelming majority: of
Davidson students, faculty“ and administration rightly”
applauded the Trustees’ decision, which could not have:
occurred without the tireless efforts of former President:
Bobby Vagt and current President Tom Ross, who chaired:
the ad hoc committee on the issue. :
Despite negative repercussions from some. older
Trustees, the college community hailed the decision as a
necessary step in fulfilling Davidson’s. Statement of
Purpose as an institution whose loyalty to the Christian tra-
dition “necessarily includes openness to and respect for the
world’s various religious traditions.” Yet there is a footnote
to this progress of which we fear few Davidson students,
are aware. ee
The newly amended Article I, section 4 of the College’s Ss
bylaws reads “As part of the historic commitment of
Davidson to the Reformed Tradition of the Christian faith,
the Nominating Committee shall ensure that at least 80%
of all elected Trustees are active members of a Christian, .
church.”,4*~" :
“In other words, non- Christians or Christians “without
“church affiliation may fill no more than nine of the 44 posi-
tions on the Board. The bylaws justify this limitation as a
measure to honor and protect Davidson’s Presbyterian her,
itage, yet several factors cast doubt on the appropriatenes :
and progressiveness of this limitation. ©.
To many outside the Davidson community, the limitation.
“appears not as a commendable means of honoring our past
but rather as an unwelcoming sign of intolerance. | ©’
<2- In our capacities as tour guides and representatives of
Davidson’s Jewish and Muslim students, we both have
spoken with several parents and prospective students who
ask us if it is really true that Davidson limits the number of
non-Christians on its Board of Trustees... Shamefully we.
zmust answer these people “Yes27.23 y-gyee low: a
-: Although the rule does not technically qualify a as a quota,
“which would require a specific composition of the Board
of Trustees, one must consider the connotations of reli-
sgious limitations in academia. To some professors and par-
ents with whom we have discussed the Davidson statute,
the rule reminds them of the infamous quotas that limited
the numbers of Jews and Catholics at American institutions
of higher learning in the early 20th century. Those meas-:
ures now do not seem like noble efforts to honor the past;
they are thought of as intolerant and anti-progressive. »
»*. By mentioning such examples we do not at all mean to
“suggest that Davidson is an intolerant institution, We only
wish to bring attention to what is not an uncommon percep-
tion of our school’s regulations. Davidson may mean the.
measure as a way to protect the College’s heritage, yet one.
must remember that what is protective to one person can be
offensive and exclusionary to another. one
- Perhaps more important than ‘Davidson’s outward
appearance is that, while the 20 percent limitation may
honor Davidson’s past, it-fails to honor the College’s pres-
ent and future. Not only does the statute limit the service of
Jews, Muslims and other non-Christians, it limits the num-
ber of Christians who do not hold membership to a church.
President Ross noted in an interview that Trustee candi-
dates have turned down positions on the Board because,
they are Christian but a are not affiliated themselves with
any church. . oot ee h—hLhLCUrr™™L™r—r—s—s—SsSCN
_-Not only does the. number of 3 non- “Christian studen
“grow, larger every’ year, but. an increasing. number o:
Davidson students do not identify themselves as religiou
or church-affiliated. The more. “non- active members ofa.
: Christian Church” to come to Davidson, the more unrepr
sentative the 20 percent limitation becomes. :
The statute demands inevitable reconsideration as thi
face. of Davidson. changes. While we ‘laud: Dayidson’ :
“recent efforts toward inclusion and. diversity, we ‘submit.
that religious diversity presents. a sorely, neglected part of
the: growing discussion of. diversity ‘at Davidson, which is.
often. limited only ‘to race, a liberal arts institution. w

eh oe

ave

Davidson College Hillel, and Nafisa 1sa’08 is the outgoin :
President of the:Muslim. Students: Association, Contact

am in politics, true character is
_ often shrouded by lofty promises
and idealism. The most recent
example has been Barack
Hussein Obama. Perhaps the
only way to gauge politicians
like Obama is to judge the com-
pany they keep. In Obama's case,
this company does not paint a
picture that deserves to be hung
in the White House.

Rev. Jeremiah Wright has a
history of anti-Americanism and
racism. He traveled to Libya with
Louis Farrakhan to meet with the
terrorist, Muamar al-Gadaffi. Rather than “God Bless
America,” he prefers to say “God Damn America.” He con-
siders 9/11 “America's chickens coming home to roost.” His
sermons are filled with hate and disdain for the United States
and its citizens.

How can Obama be comfortable
around people who have such

disdain for the country he wishes
to lead?

Understandably, Barack Obama has tried to distance him-
self from such a man, but has stopped short of disowning
him. He called Wright ‘“‘an old uncle, who sometimes says
things I don't agree with,” but Obama “can no more disown
him than...the black community.”

The problem is that Wright is not family; Obama is not
intrinsically linked to Wright, as he would be to someone like
his mother. He chose not only to associate with Wright, but
also to be mentored by him. He has listened to Wright’s ser-
mons and donated money to his church for over 20 years.
The title of Obama's book, “The Audacity of Hope” appar-
ently came from one of Wright's sermons.

Now why would Obama call the man whom he has lis-
tened to on a very personal level for so long a “crazy uncle?”
What does that say about Obama if his “crazy uncle” inspires

ty

Bossy DESPAIN

him? Also, in what manner is the disownment of Wright
linked to the disownment of the black community? Is Obama
claiming that the entire black community thinks the same
way as Wright? Obama's inability to reject Wright calls his
judgment into question.

While Wright simply hates America in what he says, Bill
Ayers can only be described as a terrorist. As a part of the
Weather Underground, he bombed the NYPD Headquarters,
the Capitol and the Pentagon, whose bombing Ayers
described as being “absolutely ideal.” All told, Ayers was
responsible for 30 bombings and several more attempted
bombings, one of which was planned to occur at a party for
soldiers from Fort Dix, New Jersey. The only reason he is not
in jail is because the FBI improperly investigated him.

Even with this history, Barack Obama appeared at Bill
Ayers’ house in 1995 to begin his run for the IHinois State
Senate. Their relationship continued with Ayers donating to
Obama's campaign and both serving on the board of a phil-
anthropic foundation.

When asked about Ayers, Obama responded, “This is a
guy who lives in: my neighborhood, who's a professor of
English in Chicago, who I know and who I have not received
some official endorsement from. He's not somebody who I
exchange ideas from on a regular basis. And the notion that
somehow as a consequence of me knowing somebody who
engaged in detestable acts 40 years ago when I was eight
years old somehow reflects on me and my values, doesn't
make much sense.”

Ayers, however, has not exactly been repentant of his
crimes, saying that he does not “regret setting bombs” and
that he feels he “didn't do enough.” Also the fact that Ayers
was a terrorist in the 1970s does not make him any less of a
terrorist today. Engaging with Ayers in any way other than
mere coincidence speaks volumes about Obama's judgment.

Underneath the rhetoric of hope and change there lies a
Barack Obama who keeps the company of individuals who
have little respect for the United States. How can Obama be
comfortable around people who have such disdain for the
country he wishes to lead? If elected, where do such relations
leave the citizens of the United States?

Bobby DesPain ’I1 is from St, Louis, Mo. Contact him at
bodespain@ davidson.edu

: Obama declines Lincoln-Douglas debate

Last week, Hillary Clinton
Mo’ bis. proposed a Lincoln-Douglas

_ debate between Sen. Obama and
. herself. The 90-minute contest
would consist of alternating two-
minute segments during which
each candidate would speak,

é| have the opportunity to ask ques-
‘ tions of his or her opponent and
; Tespond in tum.
Sen. Obama immediately dis-
i‘ missed the proposed debate, not-
‘ing that the candidates have
: already debated 21 times. What
distinction between the candidate’s policy positions or lead-
ership styles could emerge in this debate that hasn’t in the
previous 21? To this reasonable argument, Sen. Clinton
ought to respond that this is a new kind of debate—a new
kind of debate fit for the new kind of politician Obama
claims to be.

More than any other presiden-

tial candidate, Sen. Obama has

been concerned to reinvigorate
our democracy.

The 21 debates Sen. Obama references were not true
debates. On the contrary, they were a succession of sound
bites. Perhaps the requirement that candidates craft policies
on such weighty subjects as the struggle against Islamic
extremism or the pending Social Security crisis in less than
two minutes accounts for the shoddy policies the government
often enacts.

While in this proposed debate the candidates would speak
in two-minute segments, they would be able to address the
same subject over the course of several segments. No mod-
erator, seemingly afflicted with attention deficit disorder,
would prevent the candidates from spending more than six
and thirteen-seventeenths minutes debating America’s policy
toward Iran.Without a moderator, this debate, unlike its pred-
ecessors, would allow the candidates to engage each other.

without a moderator. Each would

By directing the debate, the moderator inhibits organic argu-
mentation—the most basic mark of a substantive debate.

Few differences exist between Sens. Clinton and Obama
on policy. Because of this, some argue against the utility of
another debate. Those opposed fail to understand that the
unreasonable time constraints and inability to argue that
characterized previous debates has prevented the emergence
of more substantive differences. Whereas Sen. Clinton’s
healthcare proposal includes a mandate, Sen. Obama’s plan
does not. Underlying this is a basic philosophical difference.
A debate in which the candidates could argue their differing
political philosophies would serve the voters well.

In 1858, Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas debated
slavery in eight 90-minute debates. Thousands attended.
Those in attendance at any two of these debates probably
gained more information about these men than voters have
learned about Sens. Clinton and Obama in their 21 debates,
combined. Contemporary debates are patronizing; they pre-
sume that voters lack the interest and patience in a lengthy
discussion about the day’s pressing issues. Our democracy is
in dire straights if it lacks the patience for a profound discus-
sion about the myriad challenges it faces.

More than any other presidential candidate, Sen. Obama
has been concerned to reinvigorate our democracy. He calls
for “a new kind of politics” —politics of hope not fear, of
unity not division. Sen. Obama’s incontestable intellect—
he’s among the most thoughtful presidential candidates in
recent history—coupled with his desire to improve our
democracy should lead him to embrace this debate.

Yet, standing in the way of his intellect and reformist zeal
are the advantages of status quo. In light of his poor perform-
ance in the debate that preceded the Pennsylvania primary,
he knows well that debating renders oneself vulnerable.
When the status quo benefits a politician, he’s reluctant to
disrupt it.

But didn’t Sen. Obama begin his campaign as a new kind
of politician—a politician who exhorts Americans to shed
their cynicism? That’s not the same Sen. Obama who
declined this much-needed debate. Instead, this is a conven-
tional politician. Someone ought to explain to Sen. Obama
that it’s this sort of transformation that makes Americans
cynical about politics.

Zach Bennett ’ll is a Political Science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.
