2 THE DAVIDSONIAN
ee

Recycle, from page 1

aged to actively participate in waste reduc-
tion, the first step of the “reduce, reuse, recy-
cle” chain.

People often focus on the last step, recy-
cle, because it is the simplest and most man-
ageable task, but reducing waste is just as
important (if not more) in our efforts to min-
imize detrimental impact on the environ-
ment.

As part of the contest, the Coordinator for
Recycling, Barbara Zaionz, is in charge of
submitting weekly reports to
“Recyclemania,” specifying how much
waste .the College produced (in tons).
Measuring the total waste is a difficult
undertaking, but Zaionz is enthusiastic.

“We are excited,” Zaionz said. “Physical
Plant is making a lot of progress and now we
need to communicate with everyone in the
community about what we are doing.”

Data is posted weekly on
“recyclemania.org” so that anyone can track
the College’s progress in the competition.

The College will hold its own contests as
part of the “Waste Minimization Challenge”
to encourage everyone on campus to partici-
pate. Some of the prizes for these competi-
tions include tote bags and t-shirts that are
50% cotton and 50% synthetic fabric manu-
factured from five plastic 20 oz. bottles.

“President Ross is very behind sustainabil-
ity, and now our primary goal is education,”
Zaionz said. Davidson wants to establish
environmental awareness and responsibility
as something that defines its members simi-
lar to the Honor Code culture.

By supporting initiatives such as
“Recyclemania” and other similar activities
that will be going on around campus, every
student, faculty, and staff member can con-
tribute towards achieving the goal and set an
example for community members outside
the College.

eee

BOSTON

IR

| NEWS
Union Board Presidential Candidates

CHELSEA HEATH

Since arriving at Davidson a year and a
half ago, I have been actively involved with
the Union Board. From serving on the Artist
Series Selection Committee, which brought
you Second City and Cirque, to my current
role as Speaker’s Committee Chair, I have
been dedicated to quality programming and
events that unify the campus.

I hope to continue my involvement as your
Union Board President, setting my primary
goals as: greater student involvement in the
event selection process and heightened dedi-
cation to the campus’s goals of diversity and
greater community awareness. Please help
me attain these objectives with your vote on
Feb. 11th.

one

Earn 10 academic credits
in 12 weeks. You choose
two courses, and we'll
arrange your internship.
UNIVERSITY.

SUMMER TERM

Areas of Study:
« Arts and Culture
¢ Business and Management
- Film and Media Studies
« Graphic and Web Design
- International Studies
+ Politics and Public Policy
+ Psychology and Social Policy
« Self-Designed Track

APPLY BY MAY 2, 2008

www.bu.edu/summer/internship
617-353-0556

~

BEN VAN DYKE

Hey, Davidson. My name is Ben Van
Dyke. I’m a rising senior, and I am running
for Union Board President. I have served on
the Union Board for two years: as a Member-
at-Large last year and as the current
Chairperson of the Recess Committee. In
addition, I was an active member of the
Recess Committee during my first year at
Davidson. Last year, I coordinated Davidson
Idol and Casino Night with the other
Members-at-Large, and I worked on the
Phantom of the Duke Haunted House, the
Campus Christmas Party and Spring Frolics.
This year, I have sponsored such events as
the Guitar Hero Tournament, Scene it?,
Trivia Night, and Campus-Wide Capture-

soma

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

the-Flag. As a Hall Counselor and two-year
Vice President of Changing Minds, I have
learned how to work closely with a group of
people to listen to and develop ideas in order
to create successful events. I have come to
love the Union because I believe it is the liv-
ing room of the campus; it’s the place where
people come together to do everything from
eating to studying to just relaxing and having
fun. I strongly believe in maintaining the
Union’s place as an important center of cam-
pus life. I think that the Union Board exists
for every student’s enjoyment and it is my
goal to keep the Union Board open and
responsive to you and your ideas. I am very
interested in your input and I hope that you
will help me to bring my experience, energy,
creativity and dedication to the Union Board.
Please vote Ben Van Dyke for 2008-2009
Union Board President and give me the
opportunity to work hard to create bigger
and better events for YOU.

ae

ee
a

Craig Detweiler ’85 will

* Auditorium.

we

“Lwas able to land an internship at the architecture
© firm of Shepley Bulfinch Richardson & Abbott. The firm

currently designs buildings throughout the country

.. and even internationally. | am interested in
“green” building and SBRA makes this a priority.’

Graphic and Web Design intern, 2007

