THE DAVIDSONIAN

MEIKAELA ZWIERYZNSKI
Staff Writer

Human rights activist, Nobel Peace Prize -

Nominee and winner of the Rafto Prize for
Human Rights Rebiya Kadeer visited David-
son last Tuesday to shed light on the struggle
between the Chinese government and her
people, the Uyghur of East Turkestan. The
Summer Olympics and conflict in Tibet have
drawn international attention to some of the
human rights struggles in the People’s Re-
public, but there is much more to learn about
the realities of human rights in China.

Speaking through a translator, Rebiya Ka-
deer explained to the crowd that the Uyghurs
of East Turkestan have a distinct language,
cultur, and history. Their homeland was an-
nexed by the Chinese in 1949 with support
from Russia, the year after the Chinese an-
nexed Tibet.

Their land represents one sixth of Chi-
nese territory, and is rich in natural resourc-
es; more specifically, rich in oil, a commod-
ity that is extremely important to a nation
experiencing rapid economic and industrial
growth.

Turestan’s annexation came with a prom-
ise to the Uyghur people that they would re-
main autonomous, and would be permitted to
continue on with their language and culture.

Kadeer explained that in 1954 wealthy
Uyghurs were targeted, and nearly 60,000
people were thrown in jail with the promise
that the poor would lead better lives after the
rich were gone.

Several years later, the Cultural Revolu-
tion swept through China, and in an effort
to crush competing cultural values the edu-
cated people of the Uyghur population were
thrown in jail. After some time, many were
released and the Uyghurs were promised a
better, more secure future.

Kadeer explained that she benefited from
the new leadership and this promise of a bet-
ter life. She was able to start her own busi-
ness, and was named the seventh wealthi-
est person in China in the 1990s. However,

News
Human rights advocate speaks

the policies of the government once again
changed quickly, and the Uyghurs were then
labeled as separatists and radical Islamists by
the government.

The effects of such oppression were also
being felt inside the community. After 1987,
many Uyghurs began leaving their Uyghur
societies and resorted to crimes such as pick-
pocketing and prostitution. Young people
were continuously targeted. Private religious
schools were closed, and teachers from Chi-
nese schools became the head of Uyghur
schools.

Kadeer herself was jailed by the gov-
ernment in 1999 and was sentenced to eight
years in prison through secret government
trials. She first broke with the government
in 1998 when she refused to denounce her
husband for his negative statements against
the Chinese government and their oppressive
policies towards the Uyghur people.

Her first two years in prison were served
in solitary confinement without any medical
treatment. Kadeer shared her story with the
crowd, describing that she made it through
when “[I] imagined that I could fly away like
a butterfly or a bird.” She was released in
2005 after strong pressure from international
and human rights communities.

The Uyghurs are still struggling and liv-
ing under oppression. Kadeer shared that dur-
ing the Olympics “the young Uyghurs were
forced to go to jail worrying that they would
cause trouble during the Olympics.” Police
walked the streets during that time with dogs,
threatening people to demote chaos and vio-
lence from the Uyghurs. However, Kadeer
and many like hér continue to share the story
of the Uyghurs around the world.

When a student asked what individual
Americans can do, Kadeer said that young
people should visit East Turkestan and return
home to publicize the harsh realities of the
Uyghur people, writing letters to Congress-
men and government officials demanding
that the U.S. take action.

Lauren Leonard ’10 spent the summer
abroad in China. “It was totally acceptable

Interns break down Obama and

RACHEL ANDERSEN AND PETER HANSEL _.
Guest Writers

As the environment is an important is-
sue for our generation and the college in its
Year of Sustainability, in this election year it
is important to understand the environmental
policies of both presidential candidates.

Democratic Presidential candidate Ba-
rack Obama proposes an environmental plan
that calls for a reduction of carbon emission
levels to 80 percent of the 1990 levels by
2050 through a market-based cap-and-trade
system.

This system would create a national car-
bon emissions cap (rot be a each year)

We'd Bke

im’s carcer-long track record of achieving
J successful results for his clients bas camed

him recognition throaghout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Coutt of Appeals Judge. Jim Fuller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
Intigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
fhe has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been infured by the negligent or crizateal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church, A
tember of the Lions Club, Jim also serves oa the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planing Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Jim Fuller and Sandy" cH y

ie

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

and then divide the cap into individual allow-
ances. Companies would be free to auction
and purchase allowances.

Other policies devoted to climate change
include promises to invest $150 billion over
10 years in advanced energy technologies,
including the creation of a Green Jobs Corps
and the development of advanced vehicles
made of lightweight materials and with new
engines. In order to advance these policies,
Obama also hopes to re-engage with the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change
and confront deforestation worldwide.

Obama has experience with the issues
of air and water quality through his Senate
committee position on the Environmental

rosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30
ap years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
or crimuinal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law incloding, contract preparation and review, residential
i and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
| as well as zoning. Sandy is Hicensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an atlomey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family bomeplace. Sandy and Robbie have bvo grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a

_ comamissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
<4 various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AR. & A.M. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJGRY
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfinn.com

a eae

nite will bean opportunity for stu
what th

for people to publicly humiliate the Uyghurs
by taunting them, laughing at them and hu-
miliating them,” Leonard said. She noted
that Kadeer’s presentation was extremely in-
formative and moving.

Kadeer ended by sharing a final thought

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

$ satay

of the Uyghur people.

“Our God-given freedom has been taken
away. Our God-given right has been taken
away,” Kadeer said. “We decided to stand up
for it. We are rising up around the world to
lift our voices.”

McCain’s environmental policies.

and Public Works committee. He plans to
continue his support of the Clean Air Act and
opposition to mercury poisoning.

His clean water policies include continu-
ing support for the Clean Water State Re-
volving Fund, which funds wastewater treat-
ment, nonpoint source pollution control and
watershed and estuary management in order
to improve water quality.

In addition, he plans on restoration work
in wetlands and the Great Lakes. Obama
dedicates part of his environmental policy
to the improvement of health in communi-
ties, including through environmental justice
programs. This commitment includes aide to
low-income communities in addressing envi-
ronmental concerns and providing grants to
small‘companies to help improve their envi-
ronmental policies.

Obama will support regional food net-
works and organic and sustainable agricul-
tural practices through USDA policy chang-
es. A final area that Obama includes in his
environmental policy is the preservation of
land through national parks and forests.

Republican Presidential candidate John
McCain agrees with the “Cap and Trade” ap-
proach to limiting our greenhouse gas emis-
sions. This would allow a gradual transition
away from greenhouse gases to more renew-
able resources.

As President, McCain would work to set a
timetable for the reduction of our emissions.
By 2012, his plan would cut greenhouse gas
emissions to the 2005 levels and by 2050,
emissions would be at 66% of 2005 levels.
Under McCain’s cap-and-trade plan, small
businesses would be exempt from emissions
limits.

John McCain recognizes climate change

as a threat and believes that the United States
should lead the world in addressing climate
concerns, through work with the United Na-
tions and the international community to
combat the issue. He also believes that the
approach should spur economic growth.

An integral part of McCain’s energy plan
is the need for an independence from foreign
oil. McCain plans to reduce our reliance on
foreign oil by investing in alternative fuels
such as nuclear, clean coal, wind, hydroelec-
tric, solar, natural gas and bio-fuel.

McCain supports exploring domestic oil
and natural gas supplies on the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf to allow the United States to
access 77 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.

As President, McCain would commit
during his presidency two billion dollars an-
nually to exploring clean coal technology and
would work to build 45 new nuclear power
plants by 2030 to decrease American reliance
on foreign oil.

McCain also supports encouraging
American automakers to make more fuel-ef-
ficient vehicles. He would provide a $5,000
tax credit to each customer that bought a zero
emission vehicle. McCain would also pro-
pose a $300 million prize to encourage the
development of a more effective battery for
use in hybrid or electric automobiles.

As environmental interns, Rachel Ander-
son ’Il and Peter Hansel ’09 aim to help
bring environmntal awareness to the David-
son College community. Sustainability on
campus and environmental politics are just
a few of the environmental issues pertaining
to the Davidson student-body. Anderson and
Hansel look to broaden the meaning of en-
vironmental awareness through their intern-
ships.
