2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Court Selection reforms
mix safety with tradition

By JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

Girls covered in everything from paint to
ketchup, guys covered in very little at all,
beer spilling out of Solo cups, sophomores
running through freshman halls...these are
the scenes Davidson College has come to
associate with the traditions of Court
Selection weekend.

This year, Patterson Court’s President
Council hoped to ensure a saferr, more con-
trolled ritual and designed new policies to
reduce the typical hazards associated with
alcohol, hazing, and injury during Court
Selection weekend. ;

Last semester, presidents from each
Patterson Court house formed a committee
to discuss “Court Selection Reform
Proposals.” Maddie Stough ‘08 and Mike
Parsons ‘08 led the group, with the chief goal
of eliminating safety hazards while main-
taining the traditions that make Court
Selection a meaningful rite of passage.

“Self Selection Night marks the beginning
of new member activities,” PCC President
Paul Stroup ’09 said. “Patterson Court aims
to make this evening as enjoyable, meaning-
ful, and safe as possible. There are, howev-
er, a few other elements that we must antici-
pate for this evening.”

” New regulations mandated that ten percent
of the members of each house stay sober for
the entirety of the activities.

In addition, senior fraternity members
were obligated to join their new pledges dur-
ing the run through the eating houses in iden-
tical costumes. It was also mandated that
floors stay as dry as possible by limiting
spills and giving mops to the sober ten per-
cent of the house to clean up as the night pro-
gressed.

“Overall, the most effective change was

the 10 percent rule,” President of Warmer
Hall Julie Palm ’09 said. “It was a comfort
to me to know that I had ‘sober support’ from
other women in the house if a problem
arose.”

Despite the intentions of new regulations,
dangers from over-intoxication and slipping
on house floors kept in line with tradition.

Emergency vehicles lined the streets from
Patterson Court Drive to Martin Court F
apartments, but only three hospital visits
were reported to college police. One incident
was a result of excessive alcohol consump-
tion while the other two were injuries from
slipping on floors.

Many feel that falls are inevitable during
Court Selection, despite levels of intoxica-
tion or changes in regulations. In fact, adding
the senior fraternity members to the running
mix has the potential to overcrowd houses
and lead to more falls.

“T understand that this rule was meant to
stop the freshman boys from being singled
out,” President of Connor House Ashley
Semble ’09 said. “But when safety is com-
promised at the expense of this ‘singling
out,’ than what’s the point of having safety-
conscious rules in the first place?”

Balancing safety concerns with mainte-
nance of tradition is a difficult task for coun-
cil members. While most Patterson Court
officers feel that this year’s rules were inef-
fective, there are few ideas of how rules
should change for Court Selection 2009.

“It is a tradition, just like First Night
Down. Excitement builds through out the
semester for both freshman and upperclass-.
men and therefore can lead to poor deci-
sion,” Blake Poole ’08 said. “The more
restrictions, the more fraternities and eating
houses will lose the fun of the night and get
angry with the administration and could pos-
sibly ignore those new guidelines.”

Fs srasggqaray 0 wee

1/04/08 23:03 Suspicious Biker Irwin Dormitory

Officer was contacted in reference to a suspicious person at Irwin Dorm. Upon
arrival, the officer spoke with the subject, who advised that he was looking to party
with another subject. The subject stated that he lived nearby and rode his bike to cam-
pus. He wanted to ride his bike home but, due to his intoxicated state, he was trans-
ported home by a Davidson police officer. The subject was advised that he could return
the following day to pick up his bike and that he needed a campus officer to escort
him. The subject was also informed that if he were located on campus, other than to
pick up his bike, he would be arrested for trespassing.

1/13/08 22:51 Hot Birthday Sentelle Dormitory

Officer responded to a fire alarm in Sentelle Dorm in reference to a fire alarm.
Reporting officer spoke with the Davidson Fire Dept., which stated that the students
on the fourth floor of Sentelle Dorm were celebrating a birthday party and that the
smoke from the candles activated the alarm. No damage was observed.

1/17/08 4:20 Hitting Head on Bricks 113 Dormitory Dr.

Complainant stated that she fell and hit her head on the brick walkway. The officer
observed approximately two two-inch bumps on the complainant’s forehead (left
side). Complainant stated that when she tried to go to bed, her temple started to
hurt. The officer contacted her RA and the complainant contacted the on-call nurse.
Complainant stated that if her head still hurt in the morning, she would go to the clin-
ic.

1/19/08 1:30 Bad Dancer Warner House

While working at a party, an officer was approached by two Davidson students
about a white male who was bothering them. The officer spoke with the subject and
advised him to leave the young ladies alone and enjoy the party. The subject did as
requested with no problems. The subject then went back to one of the complainants
and started to bother her again. The officer then directed the subject to leave the party
which he did.

Connect, from page I

will meet by themselves every other week
and in four-person “families” every other
week. Meeks hopes the students will form a
relationship beyond the minimum require-
ments of the program. “It’s a way to meet
more people on campus outside your cliques,
that you may not have been exposed to oth-
erwise.”

Meeks also notes that the program is not
intended to be a major time commitment.

Pelham says that the program may eventu-
ally network alli of Davidson together. First-
year students may decide to become mentors
their sophomore year, linking to even more
students. The program has the potential to
grow exponentially, eventually connecting
all the same-sex members of the student
body.

“We think it’s going to be a great way for
people without anything in common to get
together,” Johnson said. Cats Connect will
also host speakers for programs to open dis-
cussion of sensitive issues among the family
groups. “We want to make it comfortable for
mentors to talk to one another about these
issues,” Pelham said.

Meeks noted that the program is not
intended to replace the big brother-big sister
program, and alcohol is not to be involved in
Cats Connect. “The program provides inti-

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008
a

macy for freshman beyond their halls,”
Meeks said. “Hopefully, it nips the strain to
compromise to fit in.”

Meeks, Pelham, and Johnson believe the
desire to reach out to incoming students
already exists on campus, and they hope Cats
Connect will provide the means for students
to connect with each other. In terms of pub-
licizing the program, Johnson says, “We like
the word-of-mouth idea. Talk to your friends
and get them to talk to their friends.”

They also intend to speak with Patterson
Court organizations, sports teams, and other
clubs. “We see it changing the face of
Davidson for the better,” Meeks said.

President Tom Ross supports Cats
Connect because he thinks it will provide
freshmen with valuable information one may
only learn after mistakes made in their first
year, such as time management skills and
how to deal with peer pressure.

“T think that mentors will be very valu-
able...it has potential way beyond just serv-
ice or a bi-weekly meeting,” Ross said.
“Juniors and seniors are in a position to
understand a lot of things better, and hope-
fully they will pass advice on to younger stu-
dents.”

Cats Connect will begin signing up men-
tors soon, and anyone is welcome to partici-
pate. Interested students may contact Neely
Meeks at nemeeks@davidson.edu.

Davidson students return

By Suzie EckL
Editor-in-Chief

Last week saw the return of exactly 170
study abroad students to the Davidson cam-
pus, and while the influx has generated great
excitement, many students are now experi-
encing a period of confusion and readjust-
ment. Contrary to general expectation, the
study abroad returnees are not the only ones
struggling with change.

“The return of so many juniors and sopho-
mores has been incredibly overwhelming,”
Watts hall counselor Brie Dixon ’09 said..
“Not just for me but for my freshmen, as
well.”

Dixon, like many juniors who decided to
stay at Davidson during the 2007-2008
school year, saw some of her closest friends
leave for international destinations last fall
and forged new friendships in the meantime.

“T’ve become close to so many new peo-
ple, especially the freshmen,” said Dixon.
“With my old friends returning, I realize how
difficult it is to balance all these groups of
people. It’s very strange to see my returning
friends react to my new relationships.”

The freshmen on Dixon’s hall have also
responded with uncertainty to the return of
almost 200 students. For the past: five
months, the class of 2011 has gotten to know
Davidson as a college, a community and a
student body. Now, some feel that their role
here is less certain, particularly in relation to
their junior friends.

According to Megan Endersby °11, the
dynamic of her freshman hall has changed.

“My hall counselors have been so close
since the fall semester,” said Endersby.
“Now they have different circles of friends
coming back from abroad, and I wonder how
we freshmen will fit in.”

As for those students returning, they have
anticipated an early semester struggle read-
justing to the rigors of Davidson College as
well as “reverse culture shock”: the feelings
of alienation experienced after time in anoth-
er culture. Reverse culture shock can have
far-reaching effects that even the most pre-
pared traveler might not anticipate.

“Sometimes returning students find that
their old friends no longer share the same
interests or values as before,” said Carolyn
Ortmayer, the Study Abroad Coordinator.
“Of course, the effects of reverse culture
shock vary according to the individual.”

As the new semester picks up speed in the
upcoming weeks, more opportunities will
arise for freshmen and juniors to get
acquainted.

One example is through their involvement
in fraternities and eating houses. While not
all freshmen chose to join a house during
Self-Selection, some anticipate new friend-
ships to come out of Patterson Court activi-
ties.

“Our sisterhoods this week might really
help us bond with the upperclassmen,”
Endersby said optimistically. “It’s been
exciting to see so many new faces.”

“What’s goin’ on down the road?”

A brief video and discussion about current events
in the town of Davidson, including development,
with community leaders, culminating in a reception.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff welcome.
Thursday, January 24th, 5:30pm
Union Room 302

Sponsored by The Davidson Show and
SGA External Affairs Committee
Questions? Email aubell or dascott.
