THE DAVIDSONIAN

elitism misplaced

» Zach Bennett's article last week. proclaimed that. Sen.
Barack Obama is an elitist. Bennett based this argument.on
statements Obama. made.a few’ days ago. At/a. private
fundraiser, the senator said. that middle-class workers in
small towns are struggling financially because they refuse to
deviate from their traditions. This attitude, in turn, makes
them “bitter” people who “cling to guns or religion or
antipathy to people who aren't like them”, and harbor “anti-
immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment.” Bennett says
that. Obama “refuses to entertain the idea that thoughtful
individuals could be. cultural conservatives” ; and this makes

: Barack, ‘Obama i is “not an ‘elitist; on the contrary; he has
reached out to people across all social, economic and politi.
cal barriers, Admittedly, his words were not:chosen well,
and he apologized for and clarified his comments, What Sen,
Obama tried to say is that, values’ and: beliefs’ are: passed
down from generation to generation, Sometimes these tradi-
tions are liberal, and sometimes they are conservative. How
these. values affect people is is often more important than what
the beliefs actually are.,
_- Obama acknowledges that passing on traditions to future
generations is crucial, saying, “that's what sustains us.” He
also cites, however, that far too 30 often,” ‘people don't feel like
they are being listened to? 4. ee

= In the end, actions speak k louder than words, ‘Let's look : at
who has endorsed Sen. Obama. The Teamsters are one such
endorsement. The Teamsters are one of the largest unions in
the United States, a group that consists largely of working-
class people. Following that endorsement, the organization
agrees with Obama's message, and is optimistic about his
ability to reach out to people of all social and economic
classes, not just the elite.

e The United Food and Commercial Workers International
Union has also shown its support for Sen. Obama; the orga-
nization's website proclaims itself as a “voice for working
America.”..Yet another organization representing working-
class citizens is behind the message of an ‘elitist’ candidate.
» Alesser-known endorsement comes from Douglas Kmiec,
a Republican. Kmiec served as the U.S. ‘Assistant Attorney
General for former Presidents Ronald Reagan and George
H.W. Bush. Obama once: again shows his ability-to reach
across party lines and connect t with people of varying Polit:
ical beliefs.

So what do. we make of this? Unions representing the
‘working class as well as a Republican lawmaker are show-
ing their support for the supposedly elitist Democratie can-
didate for the presidency. This can't be right. The truth is,
Sen. Obama is very much in touch with the working class.
He correctly recognizes that lawmakers have been losing
touch with this demographic. ae
-, Bennett points out “Sens. Clinton and McCain have €xco-
tiated Sen. Obama for his condescension.” Let us make one
thing clear immediately; Sens. Clinton and MeCain criticiz-
ing anyone of being elitist and condescending toward the
working class is the pot calling the kettle black: Hillary and
former President Bill Clinton's joint tax returns for the last
seven years totaled almost. $109.2. million. Hillary made
more than $500,000 from her book in 2006, and she collects
$150,000 each year from the Senate. (the- same. as..Sens.
Obama and McCain), Clinton also recently took out a great
deal of her own money to finance her campaign. She has no
business calling someone an elitist when she herself is deep
in corporate Washington, and swimming in mon

© Bennett also. points out. that Sen, Obama criticized John
McCain for-refusing to use goverment: to stimulate the
economy” and citing this as.‘ evidence of an ability to relate
to the American people.” He goes on to criticize Obama's
action as dividing the American public, Rather, it is McCain
‘who seems to be nae the middle class behind, This c coun;

John McCain's. refusal to invoke. the. government shows
that he wants to leave the economic stimulation to the pri-
ate sector, Clearly, this method has not worked for the Past

PERSPECTIVES

y Twenty-one people were
a killed and 120 wounded at a Tel
Aviv nightclub in June of 2001.
Two months later, 15 people
were killed and 130 wounded in
a Jerusalem restaurant. In
August 2003, 23 people were
killed and 130 wounded on a
Jerusalem bus.

Sin cera ,

same cause: Hamas. Hamas is a
terrorist organization, which
since 1990 has murdered more
1 than 500 people, 26 of them
Americans.

They continually launch rockets into Israeli towns with the
hope of completing their charter's demand of the annihilation
of Israel.

Hamas has complete disregard for human life and free-
dom. Based on this history, former President Jimmy Carter
met disgrace and embraced the leaders of Hamas over the
past week.

Against the objections of President Bush, the State
Department, Congress, Israel and non-terrorists, the worst
president in U.S. history decided he knew best and met with
Hamas. Let us recall the Carter presidency and its terrorist
dealings.

On Nov. 4, 1979 Iranian terrorists stormed the US.
Embassy in Tehran and took 52 Americans hostage. Jimmy
Carter, rather than bomb Iran back to the first century, let
these 52 Americans be humiliated for 444 days, after which
they were released, at the dawn of the Reagan presidency.

In addition to meeting with the leaders of Hamas, Carter
also visited and laid a wreath at the tomb of fellow Nobel
Peace Prize recipient, Yasser Arafat. Mr. Arafat, besides win-
ning a Peace Prize, also bombed airplanes, committed mur-
der at schools and apartments, on buses, at Olympics and
countless other places.

In an outrageously despicable gesture, Jimmy Carter chose
to honor the murderer himself, rather than honor the victims

~ Bossy DEsPain

These tragedies all have the

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23,2008 9

Charges of Obama Carter’s talks with Hamas treasonous

of Arafat's terrorism. This is equivalent to the governor of
Oklahoma holding a candlelight ceremony at the grave of
Timothy McVeigh on the anniversary of the Oklahoma City
bombing, instead of mourning the 168 people McVeigh mur-
dered.

Several congressmen have introduced bills to combat Mr.
Carter. Some of these bills are written to target his taxpayer-
funded Carter Center.

Congress and the Justice Department should go further and
label the Carter Center a terrorist organization and freeze its
funds. Carter's passport should be revoked and if he contin-
ues to meet with terrorists, and the government should seri-
ously consider charges of treason.

While such actions on a former president would be
unprecedented, as a former president, Carter's actions are
equally unprecedented. He has completely disregarded the
policies of the current administration in an attempt to satisfy
his own quest. In meeting with terrorists he legitimizes their
position. He is saying that it is acceptable to blow up buses
and cafes in order to get a point across.

Terrorism is suddenly an accept-
able way to negotiate. Not only
does Carter justify terrorism, but
he also enables it.

Terrorism is suddenly an acceptable way to negotiate. Not
only does Carter justify terrorism, but he also enables it.
Terrorists can see that if they continue to bomb schoolchild-
ren, people like Carter will bow to their wishes.

The real tragedy here lies in the fact that Jimmy Carter is
so desperate for attention that he is willing to embrace a ter-
rorist.

Carter has become so irrelevant that the only people will-
ing to recognize him are terrorists.

Bobby DesPain 11 is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at
bodespain@davidson.edu.

Talk of grade deflation beside the point

JOHN EVANS
Guest Columnist

It's interesting to me that at an institution whose members
with pride proclaim, “It's a great day to be a Wildcat,” w
should speak of our immediate and future goals with such
obvious inconsistencies. We all work harder than rational
humans ought, struggle through sleepless nights to finish that
“grade-making” paper, the project chiseled to perfection.

Yet many of us would take far greater joy in the relation-
ships formed with each other, those friendships and quick
memories more durable than textbook bindings. And no
wonder. For we all agreed to enroll at this small, little-
known, liberal arts college, not because this school will guar-
antee us future happiness, but because this place best suits
our defined, respectable and shared character as well as our
integrity.

So when I listen to and participate in the grumbling that
underscores many conversations about our school, that our
workload is too much, our low GPA unfair--when I read a
front-page article written in a faint tone of urgency that
describes a meeting purposed to address the pressing issue of
grade deflation--it gives me pause.

I’m here to better myself as an
individual, to become a fully
equipped, well-informed and

insightful person.

Have I made the right choice? Is it too late for me, for us,
to gain that how-to knowledge essential for any profession?
Did I agree to spend four years of my life here so that I might
be unfairly ignored in the “real” world?

No. This is the real world. Davidson College is real. I
haven't come here because my Davidson education will grant
me a clear-cut advantage over my peers. I'm here to better
myself as an individual, to become a fully equipped, well-
informed and insightful human being.

I remain here, when I could easily leave to find real happi-
ness, because I want to be a part of something that is more
than just grades, more than personal success, more than the
accolades, the honors, the professional respect, the self-
pride: I want to be a part of something real.

We'll become successful in whatever avenues of life we
pursue, should we choose to work hard at all times. Our

school has a reputation for selectivity, and such a quality
speaks volumes. If, as I hope and expect, I make it through
Davidson, I know ['ll have a bright future ahead of me. So
will we all.

I want to be a part of something
that is more than just grades,
more than personal success, more
than the accolades, the honors,
the professional respect, the self-
pride: I want to be a part of
something real.

The task of our school is not to provide the path to a bet-
ter future, but to strengthen our will to discover one. I may
have the grades; I may have the prizes; I may have all that
might ever beautify a resume. But if I lack those social skills
necessary to create lasting relationships (and by the term, I
mean all types of human interactions, from business to per-
sonal), then I will not succeed. If I cannot prove myself as a
man of integrity, someone to be trusted and respected both
personally and professionally, who has sense enough to dis-
criminate between basic human assumptions of right and
wrong, then I will not succeed.

At my grandfather's funeral last spring, a man took my
brother and me aside, separating us from the crowd of
mourners. He told us that our grandfather had been a great
man. He said, “Your grandfather was one of the toughest
sons-of-bitches I ever knew, but he was fair. If there was ever
anything bad going on, anything improper, he just walked
away and later gave whoever was doing it hell. But if it was
ever bad, he stayed away. He was an ethical man. A decent,
loving, honest man who lived with honor. I want you boys to
remember that.”

I will remember. And I'll remember that I'm more than a
“deflated” GPA. I'm no prophet, but I feel confident that we'll
be OK, because we're all good people. And if we're patient
(because dream jobs and happy lives don't come immediate-
ly), then we'll all have everything we, as Davidson graduates,
could ever want.

John Evans ‘Il is a Classics and English major from
Atlanta, Ga..Contact him at joevans@davidsun.edu.
