4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

On Thursday, April 17, Claudia Goldin, a
professor of economics at Harvard, delivered
a lecture entitled “Wage Inequality: The
Race between Education and Technology in
20th Century America” in Tyler-Tallman
Hall.

According to Professor Goldin, for most
of the 20th century, wage inequality did not
expand. It was high around 1910, then
decreased from 1910 until 1950, and
remained roughly constant until 1980.

However, after 1980, wage inequality
increased very rapidly.

This 20th-century pattern, Goldin stated,
was due mainly to two technological booms:
one at the beginning of the 20th-century,
with the expansion of electricity and
machine power, and the second from 1980 to
the present.

When technology increased rapidly, such
as at the beginning and end of the 20th-cen-
tury, the wage disparity between the educat-
ed and less educated increased, as did the
economic value of graduating from high
school and college.

Goldin argued that “more educated work-
ers were in great demand at the beginning of
the 20th century” because of a “machine rev-
olution,” and that a similar phenomenon has
occurred in the last 30 years.

Nevertheless, according to Goldin, tech-
nology is only one side of the economic
story; the rate at which education increased
is even more important than technological
advancements.

. Bank, from page 1°
- good news ‘first. According to Haass, the -
. good news, while limited, does exist. :
ey First, he said he does not foresee a con-
» flict among the great powers of the world.
_ Second, he cited Europe as an example :
of positive change in what was once “the
/messiest part of the world,” transforming »
-into what is today one of the most st peaceful,
democratic areas, ;

Poverty levels of China and India.

"ment that. “there: are no problems, only
challenges. He finds the defining chal--

will behold the existence of nine nuclear
= weapon holding countries, as well as ter-

problems cannot be handled by a fragment-

and utilizing the interconnectedness of our
world, . oe
Haass then “narrowed his scope: to

against unilateralism. and isolationism,

He used this analogy: fo ‘explain that what ©
happens -in a country. does ty in that

more distributed.” :

Haass’s. opinion, are that its military forces

energy “which it cannot provide. for itself.

ble. ‘economic.’ ‘recession / while: ant

ae

diplomacy, revive the military, make our i

He ‘also pointed out - ‘the impressive d
progress of South Africa and the i improving e

» Haass agreed with Colin Powell’s state--

lenge of the 21st century will be inextrica- a
bly linked with globalization. This century”

rism, disease and global climate change;
According to Haass, this new class of ~

_ed global community. These problems .
show the absolute necessity of realizing ©

within its borders. “The next president wi

American. president: will face. ‘He. spoke

ingly dismal peer:

*ful of a global, interconnected communi

The United States’ particular troubles, ik

are: stretched thin, and. “it is. addicted. to.

0, he said that it As in the midst of a pos-“~

NEws
Goldin discusses economic disparity and wages

She then proceeded to show two graphs,
one of the average education in years
throughout the 20th-century, and the other of
the ratio of college-educated workers to high
school-educated workers.

The first graph showed that the ratio of
college to high school workers has been
increasing significantly more slowly since
1980, at about a 2 percent rate, contrasted

“More educated workers
were in great demand at
the beginning of the 20th
century... the future of
inequality depends large-
ly on increasing the sup-
ply of educated work-

y9

ers.

-Claudia Goldin

with a 3-4 percent rate throughout much of
the 20th century.

The second graph showed that the average
years of education in America, after rapidly
increasing for many years, flattened out after
1980.

Perhaps most convincing was Professor
Goldin’s visual representations of her theory

health of our environment.
He said that the next president must

“encourage free trade to foster economic’:
“growth in the developing world, create

more. global institutions, employ. more ~

-economic foundations. more sustainable
cand ultimately: navigate between tw
- extremes with Iraq.

eed like no othe
_ president, daunting i in

inherit an inbox of challenges like no othet
La Gentine » Scale. and.

ble science. He believes itis a science that
“can be managed by creating policy respec

year Ss “Bank. of

The. theme., off this

‘Leadership? “and Haass peech concluded
a series pono, by. Bank. of America

of wage inequality based on educational
improvement, compared with actual wage
inequality throughout the 20th century.

The two graphs were nearly identical, with
only two major variations: World War II,
when demand for labor was so high that
nearly everyone could find a job, and the
1970s inflation crisis, a time when less edu-
cated, blue collar workers were hit less hard
because unlike white collar workers, their
jobs often came with cost of living adjust-
ments.

Professor Goldin also addressed other fac-
tors that could have changed income
inequality in the 20th century, including
increased immigration and outsourcing, as
well as the rise in power of labor unions in
the first half of the century, followed by their
decline after World War II.

However, she stated that these factors,

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008

while relevant, held far less importance than
the relationship between technological and
educational improvement.

Ultimately, Professor Goldin argued that a
more successful educational system would
be critical in decreasing income inequality in
the future.

“The future of inequality depends largely
on increasing the supply of educated work-

rs,” she said.

This could be done by making it easier for
lower- and middle-income Americans to pay
for college.

Goldin believes Davidson’s recent policy -
to eliminate student loans to allow all stu-
dents to graduate debt-free could be a step in
the right direction.

The lecture was the 22nd Annual
Comelson Distinguished Lecture, sponsored
by the Department of Economics.

Claudia Goldin chats with students before her lecture

THANK YOU SENIORS!

We reached our goal of 80% participation for the
senior class gift! Because we surpassed our goal,
President and Mrs. Ross will be MATCHING every

dollar we’ve raised up to $10,000!

Thank you to everyone who has given to the Senior Class Gift
thus far! If you haven't yet participated, please consider doing so
as soon as possible. Our time at Davidson is coming to a close,

and giving to the Annual Fund is a great way to give back
to the school that has given you so much over the past four years!

The easiest way to give is online at: www.davidson.edu/giving

As a token of appreciation to everyone who has given,
we will be holding a raffle for several items, including
an iPod Nano!! Only those who have given will be entered
into the drawing, so make sure you make your gift today!

Contact Maddie or Anders if you have any questions! (mastough or angustafson)
