11. THe DavinsoniAN

Arts & LIVING _

CTE? OLE

: 10 fain in ‘the room. with someone who knew
* her like this.” ” Florence- runs from, the hotel. 2

on Edward and Florence’s inner thoughts,
_ Numerous “flashbacks, though confusing. at

Mvazinghyeaceh, McEwan - »remains

Jolie, aphe ine ss

sabotage her by embarrassing her 1n tront ot
her neighoors, calling her a liar and accusing
her of trying to avoid her motherly respon-
sibilities.

The only one who offers to help Christine
is the Reverend Gustav Briegleb (John Malk-
ovich) who uses his radio broadcasts to speak
out against the corruption of the Los Angeles
Police Department. He warns her of the dan-
gers she will face if she continues to confront
the police. Even though Briegleb doles out
this warning, he still offers his help to her if
she chooses to fight back.

And fight back she does. Christine defi-
antly declares that as she always told Walter,
“Never start a fight, but always finish it.” She
didn’t start the fight with the police, but she
vows she will finish it and find justice, find
Walter. The police continue to punish her and
declare her insane, which lands her in a cor-
rupt and heinous asylum.

Soon after, the plot becomes even more
twisted as a second crime is uncovered that
may very well uncover the truth about Wal-

nbiased, and. treats: both characters” with ©

about newlyweds on their honeymoon.’ Ye

The Hibachi dining experience found at Kobe Hero in Cornelius can be a fun and
exciting way to enjoy a meal. Just be sure to watch out for the onion volcano!

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Last week my dire craving for Japanese
food made me dream of volcanic eruptions
of soy sauce, fluttering butterfly shrimp and
little sushies swimming in a scathing Jacuzzi
of miso soup.

Fortunately, Family Weekend mandated
a long-awaited dinner with my folks, and
took us on a ten-minute drive to a popular
restaurant in Comelius. Kobe Hero Restau-
rant, a Korean-owned Japanese restaurant,
awaited my presence. At least by the smell
that permeated the air, I knew that I was in
for a stimulating gastronomic experience.

Kobe Hero Restaurant at Lake Norman,
newly renovated, has over 25 years of ex-
perience and is conveniently located off the
interstate. The moment I walked through the
doors, I was surprised to see how modern and
clean the interior was.

All customers have the choice of sitting
either at the Hibachi tables; literally, grill ta-
bles on which chefs prepare gourmet delica-
cies right in front of them, the sushi bar or the
regular seating area. Bear in mind that since
the sushi bar is not located in a separate and
dining room from the regular seating area,
those who are intolerant of cigarette smoke
would find it more beneficial to dine in the
non-smoking Hibachi area.

After taking a table in the regular seat-
ing area, I glanced at the variety of luncheon
menu selections, ranging from chicken,
shrimp, steaks, filets, scallops and combina-
tions of each. In fact, each choice comes with
two sides.

Not feeling like eating and paying for a
huge filet of steak or chicken? Not a prob-
lem. The folks at Kobe Hero offer a smaller
size portion of meat for a reasonable price.
What makes Kobe Hero unique is that they

offer well-priced Kobe Beef, a rare delicacy
among Japanese restaurants. Senior citizens
dining in the Hibachi area have the option of
selecting entrées from the senior’s menu.

Additionally, there is an incredible selec-
tion of exquisite sushi, from the Sea Monster
Roll to Avocado Rolls, all creations from 20-
year owner and chef veteran, Mr. Hero. Be-
ing half-Japanese myself, I am very precise
as to how my sushi is made. However, I was
extremely impressed with the aesthetic detail
that Hero-san put into each piece.

One slight drawback: be prepared to wait
a good 15 to 25 minutes for your entrée. Rest
assured, however, that your meal is cooked
with fresh ingredients. I found that a good
way to wait for your meal is to savor the am-
biance of the restaurant.

The dimmed lights and plush booths
make an excellent place for dates and birth-
days. Tell Mr. Hero that you will celebrate
your birthday at his restaurant, and he and the
staff will sing you a song, offer you a present,
cake and take a picture.

When my steak and shrimp meal finally
appeared from the kitchen, I was elated. I bid
a happy “adieu” to my meal and devoured it
while sipping on the cold jasmine-flavored
ice tea. Hedonistic bliss filled my blood-
stream as I] savored the holy trinity of garlic,
ginger and teriyaki flavors exploding in my
mouth. This was one of the best meals I had
in a long time.

The staff was extremely friendly and the
atmosphere so relaxed that my parents and I
thoroughly enjoyed our main courses.

Kobe Hero, unlike Bonsai, does not ac-
cept CatCards and may seem rather pricey
for students during dinner hours. My recom-
mendation is to take lunch during the week-
day and bring a friend or two to split the cost
at dinner. The Hibachi, though pricey, is well
worth the preparation tableside.

ter’s disappearance, as well as the disappear-

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

“then falls to the reader, who must. remember

to-keep an open mind and resist from judg=

ng the. protagonists. and their very human.

= “On Chesil Beach” isa dark book. Th
subject matter stays f far away: from the happy:
nding the reader may: expect ‘from a story.

"Some datk c places
ance of 20 other boys.

As that investigation grows, Detective
Lester Ybarra (Michael Kelly) becomes a
central character and the audience finds a
hero in a cop who rises above corruption in a
search for the truth.

Angelina Jolie gives a
stirring portrayal. Her
display of emotion and
desire is heartbreaking and
inspiring.

Finally, the truth comes out. Evidence
proves that the boy returned to Christine is
indeed not her son. She, with the help of
Reverend Briegleb and attorney S. S. Hahn,
(Geoffrey Pierson) launches an enormous
civil suit against the police department that
results in severe punishment for their corrup-
tion and justice for Christine.

And whatever happened to Walter Col-

lins? That’s a secret I’ll never tell.
| a

4" 14

