THE DAVIDSONIAN

students a “Happy Halloween!”

“Happy Halloween!” Love, The Chambers

Students walking by Chambers early Hallow
themselves greeted by moonlit toilet paper and a sign, wishing all

NeEws

PHOTOS OF THE WEEK
Enjoying ‘An Adult Evening’

Ghost
7

Phata provided by The Feng-Shui Cliub

een morning found

Nina Hawley 11 and will James 11 acted in the student theater
production “An Adult Evening with David Ives.“

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008 5

ae

Moscow university students experience Davidson

Katie Loverr
Staff Writer

Welcoming of a group of six Russian
exchange students to the Davidson College
campus marks the continuation of the col-
lege’s exchange program with the Moscow
State Institute of International Relations
(MGIMO).

This year’s students, Vilena Yakovleva,
Alisa Shtykina, Alena Danilova, Kira Bely-
aeva, Anna Arsenyeva and Anton Nazarov,
are living on campus for six weeks and are
enthusiastic about their opportunity to ex-
perience a different type of college environ-
ment.

Yakovleva, Shtykina and Nazarov (or
“Tony”), are students in the Department of
Journalism at MGIMO, Belyaeva and Ar-
senyeva are studying public relations while
Danilova is majoring in political science.

Yakovleva learned about Davidson from
a friend, and after coordinating with her
university’s exchange program and local
program organizer Suzanne Grzesczak, was
excited to come to Davidson. She did it “for
the experience, not for academic credits,”
Yakovleva said.

After they return to MGIMO, all six stu-
dents will have to work very hard to catch
up with tests and assignments since they will
have missed a large portion of their semes-
ter.

on the opportunity to see the world

“The first week we get back to school is
going to be horrible,” Yakovleva said.

But all of the exchange students feel that
the chance to study abroad is a unique op-
portunity that has allowed them to learn and
observe things that will change their perspec-
tives once they return to Russia.

“It’s really different from Russia because
so many students live here on campus. I feel
more at home,” Shtykina said.

Living on a campus as small as Da-
vidson’s where the walk from the dorm to
Chambers takes less than five minutes is
certainly a huge change from battling traffic
jams in Moscow.

Contrary to the layout of many American
universities, the main academic building of
the Moscow State Institute of International
Relations is located in the center of the city
with students’ dorms dispersed throughout
the area.

“Sometimes it would take me three hours
to get from my dorm to the other side of the
city for classes,” Belyaeva said.

All six students are enrolled in Davidson
classes that pertain to their individual inter-
ests, while also attending a special seminar
titled “U.S.A. 2008” each day.

This class offers a better understanding
of U.S. culture and intends to help the group
transition from the 4,000-student MGIMO to
life at Davidson College.

Yakovleva is taking Modern Spain, Mu-

from a unique perspective

If you are curious and adventurous, then pack
your bags and say goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit, experience

a different culture, learn a foreign language,
discover who you are and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.“

sic of the United States, Trends in Theatre
and Oral Communications. “It’s really cool
to be able to pick out classes you want to
take, and we all took classes that interest us,”
she said.

Arsenyeva’s schedule includes U.S. For-
eign Policy, French, Mind and Emotion and
Oral Communication. The group is interested
in bringing back knowledge and experiences
that they can contribute to their own univer-
sity.

“We have international students from
countries such as Korea, China and Germany
at our university, but they just study Rus-
sian and we don’t see them a lot,” Yakovleva
said.

This is certainly not true of the MGIMO
University exchange group here at Davidson.
Yakovleva, Shtykina, Danilova, Belyaeva,
Arsenyeva and Nazarov have enjoyed being
involved in on campus activities and events.

For instance, they manned the Russian
table at the Family Weekend International
Festival last Saturday, sharing popular Rus-
sian food such as “olivye” a chopped salad
of potatoes, carrots, eggs, sausage, pickles

and mayonnaise, Russian pancakes with jam.

and sour cream and authentic Russian choco-
lates.

The group also went to a party at the BSC,
which they described as “crazy!” and saw the
theatre department’s production ‘Communi-
cating Doors.’

We'd LAE Yon 0

im’s carver-long track record of schieving

successful results for his clients has eared

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is

a Widely respected trial lawyer knowe throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills, With 32 vears of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his lepal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or crizinal
conduct of others.

Jim ang his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
atfend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
snember of the Lions Club, Jim also serves oa the
Boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands

Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and THE coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
was recently appointed (o the Town Planning Board. ect Ds} Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

APPEALS + BANKEUPICY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

coUtaaal Lersonal ‘injury Attorneys

Exceptional Attorneys... Clase fo Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 + (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

“One thing that really impressed us is that
people are always friendly and smiling here,”
Nazarov said. “There is a great amount of op-
portunities and it is much easier to be you
and participate in activities.”

The students attested that administration-
al procedures are much more formal and of-
ficial in Russia, where students must receive
approval for participating in extracurricular
opportunities.

Coming from MGIMO’s Department of
Journalism, Yakovleva said that she was im-
pressed by the student run structure of The
Davidsonian, while Danilova said she has
enjoyed attending student run dance classes
such as jazz, ballet, modern and salsa.

When asked about their overall impres-
sion of Davidson and things that had sur-
prised them, the light-hearted, friendly group
laughed saying, “There are so many squirrels
here!”

After giggling over this, they commented
on the small, quiet campus and surrounding
town and the mild North Carolina weather.

The students’ cultural observations in-
clude an admiration for the Honor Code sys-
tem, the number of student-run organizations
and the more informal style of classroom in-
struction.

Yakovleva concluded saying, “From this
experience I can take away a better under-
standing of the diversity of life and an ability
to accept other people’s views.”

Z rosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30
years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence

of ctiminal conduct, always with the client's best interest

above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law inchiding, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In axidition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, curently live
in the family homeplace, Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a
commissioner with the Towa of Davidson, has served oo
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M. and in has

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INTURY
REAL ESTATE « WEISS TRISTS

