14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Perspectives Editor Emeritus

Alex Hoyt wrote last week that Stylus
botched their list, as he predicted he might
do his. Well, he did. Not one bloody super-
hero film? Clearly the man is certifiable (if
not for that, then for the fact that he asked me
to write this article). Hoyt, Davidson,
America: Here is the only list you need.

1) “Spider-Man 2” (Sam Raimi, 2004).
Despite accusations of cartoonish special
effects, melodrama and Tobey Maguire’s
continual teenage voice-crackdom, this
sequel breaks the Hollywood rule that all
second films are worse than their predeces-
sors. Not only does the film effectively cap-
ture the feel, character and conflict present
throughout Spidey’s now-45 years in comic
books, but it delivers a fantastic look at a
hero’s life after he makes “the big decision,”
daring to question how to live with that deci-
sion on an everyday basis.

2) “The Incredibles” (Brad Bird, 2004).
Disney finally proved it will not be relegated
to 12 cable channels, Pixar did some of their
best animation to date, Craig T. Nelson
resuscitated his career for the umpteenth
time and our “everybody’s special” kinder-
garten-candy-giving-grade-inflating-bleed-
ing-heart-liberal society got the kick in the
pants that it needed. Unfortunately, the
politicians were all watching “Troy” and rab-
blerabbleing about how war is bad, so they
missed out on this gem. Bird wrote and
directed a script that shows every aspect of
not a super family, but a family that is super.
Quit treating it like a children’s popcorn film

FSCS SIIES CIC
[o)rlofa|alo[~|=[e]
[o|=[S|ulelolalole

ARTS & LIVING
The 10 best superhero movies of the new millenium

and you will find yourself stunned at the.
intellectual discourse and emotional pull in
this underrated classic-to-be.

3) ‘Batman Begins” (Christopher Nolan,
2005). O dear Lord, let us now give thanks
for a costume without rubber nipples. Let us
give thanks, too, for actors who act, special
effects that are special, and movies that
move. Because between the Jack Nicholson
performance as the Joker in 1989 and this
reboot, the name of Batman got sullied in
black leather, fetish armor and villains who
did not make jokes, but who, in fact, were
jokes. Any hero trained by Liam Neeson has
my stamp of approval; any film with Gary
Oldman, Morgan Freeman and Michael
Caine all aiding Christian Bale—well that
just rules. Please note that this list is subject
to change pending the release of “The Dark
Knight,” in which I anticipate seeing Heath
Ledger give the best (and tragically last) per-
formance of his career.

4) “V for Vendetta” (James McTeigue,
2005). After the failure of the anti-hero in
such bombs as Ang Lee’s “Hulk” and
Jonathan Hensleigh’s “The Punisher,” V pro-
vided a breath of fresh air. I must disagree
with comic book writer Alan Moore’s assess-
ment that the film did not warrant his sup-
port; despite action sequences that need a
Wachowski ™ mark after them, the treat-
ment of the graphic novels is inspired, con-
cise, and utterly effective. V is tragically
sympathetic and chillingly cruel. The state is
terrifying in its potential to be just around
our own corner. And the story is explosively
powerful. If I ever join a revolution, I want a
guy like V in charge of it.

5) “X2: X-Men United” (Bryan Singer,

’ Bae, |

on] +9] 8 oo [releolo

[Nlolol=[o/s [es [ro [oo]

|S] €0 | o> | + [no] n/a] |

2003). Another exception to the rule of atro-
cious sequels. Singer is a masterful story-
teller, always keeping his audience just bare-
ly off-balance and guessing about charac-
ters’ motivations until the crucial moment, at
which point something explodes and the
choices they make in a split-second’ change
their lives. The cast is an all-star roster, none
of whom treats a character like a child’s toy
for a second. The plot twists and turns and is
faithful to comic lore, while original and
unique. And unlike the first installment,
characters have been established, so instead
of revealing their deep, dark secrets, they can
slash through a special ops unit or unleash
iron spheres as pinballs of carnage and we
nerds in the crowd can sit back and say
“Coooool.”

6) “Batman Beyond: Retum of the Joker”
(Curt Geda, 2000). If you agree with any-
thing I have ever said, ever (and I talk a lot),
watch this movie. Saturday moming car-
toons meet Alfred Hitchcock and have a
child raised by Titus Andronicus. To borrow
from a DC rival, ’nuff said.

7) “Superman Retums” (Bryan Singer,
2006). Well, his tights are still goofy, his dia-
logue still sucks, his alter-ego is still lame
unless, as Bill of “Kill Bill” mentions, it’s
actively commenting on an_ outsider’s
impression .of the human race. But Kevin
Spacey is an excellent villain—comic, yet
terrifying, in a manner reminiscent of
Nicholson’s Joker. And since James Marsden
had little to do on the set of “X3,” he joined
Singer and got to act with his whole face
(and, in so doing, made the film electrify-
ing). I have little to say about Brandon Routh
and Kate Bosworth except that, for kids;

SCI CICCICINIE!:

N)olo]o/a|Nisla}
| ~]e]&|ro]o0|o] =)

a
iB
|e
le
je

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

they’re not bad actors. The Marvel vs. DC
vid on Youtube is right, though...Supes
needs something other than kryptonite, kryp-
tonite and more kryptonite to challenge him.

8) “X-Men” (Bryan Singer, 2000). As the
film that kicked off a millennium that, thus
far, has been all about the superheroes in
tights, “X-Men” deserves kudos and a bless-
ing from those of us who love our epic bat-
tles. Operating on a shoestring budget with
too little time, Singer made a film that comic
book fans everywhere can call “theirs” with
great pride. As we often forget when consid-
ering superpowers, the human race is not tol-
erant of those who are different. This film is
a grim reminder, as well as a warning about
the dangers of intolerance, and generally a
bad-ass action flick.

9) “Spider-Man” (Sam Raimi, 2002). The
question: Who am I? The answer: an out-of-
shape college senior. Who do I want to be?
Spider-Man. Philosophical discourses bat-
tling out the philosophies of FDR and Hitler
are always fun, but when you can do it in
costumes and flying/webslinging about New
York, you are a clear winner. Spider-Man is
everybody’s hero—if you can’t identify with
him, put your resume out because humanity
is sending you a pink slip.

10) “Snakes on a Plane” (David R. Ellis,
2006). The only time Sam Jackson comes in
10th on any list. He didn’t need to show me
his wallet this time—TI already could tell he
was a bad mother. The elements here are just
too perfect: snakes, a plane, and Samuel L.
Jackson. It ranks this low only because it is
disappointing on the small screen. When the
re-release happens (and you know it will) I
will be first in line.

neste, |

GO RIG EECICie
ESC CSIC

a : -157100mg 5
AIL “ds 16, Four ~ Jupiter, Saturn,
Tl Te vl. Mecurial ~. ~ Uranus and Neptune -
. 2. Midnight Blue _- 17, Hitler
CIT IA R | 3. Dos Equis 18. “Casablanca”
A | = __ 4. Grenadine 19. No opening credits. Lucas
MA il L | -5. Elle Fanning was promptly fined by the
F Wire. 6. C. Patrick Dempsey Directors Guild of America.
OWE A. Jimmy Carter 20. Charlize Theron (Best
M ma lo (5 8. Oak trees (because they are so _— Actress) for role in ‘Monster’
EIT “7 * tall) (2003) |
_ ,-= 9. ‘Guiding Light’ . 21. Uraguay |
SE io it i 10. Barbara Millicent Roberts 22. Clocks
HIE IA IR IT 11. George Gipp 23. Andes Mountains
EF HIN UH 12. Voyager II . 24. Richard Hatch
YK IE IS | 13. Chelsea 25. Australia

