6 Tre DAvVIDSONIAN

Toronto, from page 5

al among the many motion pictures that have
made their big-screen premiere at the TIFF.

Many North American directors make
their debut here, but international films are
also represented. This year’s festival pre-
mieres films from Brazil, Canada, France,
Norway and South Korea.

Three films that premiered in France’s
2008 Festival de Cannes are making their
way to the TIFF with U.S. distribution deals.
Regent Releasing, a L.A.-based theatrical
distribution company, successfully obtained
U.S. distribution rights to “Serbis.” This
drama is directed by Brillante Mendoza and
was nominated for a Palme d’Or at the 2008
Cannes Film Festival.

You may even run into a movie star. TIFF
published an official guest list and stated that
they had sent out 500 guest invitations to
world-renowned actors. Adrien Brody, Vin-
cent D’Onofrio, Jeff Goldblum and “The

Arts & LIVING

Narrows” stars Kevin Zegers and Sophia
Bush all made the list.

Toronto officially rolled out the red car-
pet on Thursday at Roy Thomas Hall with the
invitation-only premiere of Canadian actor-
director Paul Gross’ “Passchendaele.”

This year’s highlights include “Burn Af-
ter Reading,” an Ethan and Joel Coen com-
edy which features Brad Pitt, George Cloo-
ney and Frances McDormand among many
others.

Following this Coen Brothers produc-
tion, Keira Knightley (who was outraged as
she learned that studio heads were going to
amplify her cleavage on TIFF publicity post-
ers) will play the role of an 18th century aris-
tocrat in “The Dutchess.”

With this year’s line-up, the Festival
guarantees to impress any crowd and wel-
comes you with open screens to join in the
excitement of being part of North America’s
biggest film festival.

jurtesy photo’:

September.

STUDY ABROAD

nal film festival every

IN® ENGLISH

COME-TO AN INFORMATIONAL’ MEETING

| september 18, 2008 |

| Explore one
of Europe's
best kept

| secrets—
Stockholm

4 PM
CHAMBERS 1015

Stockholm University

“ infoesuedishprogran.org (315) 737-0123. wuu.suedishprogran.org™

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

“Heroes” blends genres

PETER KEPLIN
Staff Writer

When I first heard the song “Cupid’s
Chokehold” by Gym Class Heroes, I was in-
trigued. Who were these guys who had seam-
lessly taken Supertramp’s classic rock hit,
“Breakfast in America,” and turned it into a
rock-infused, hip-hop single?

It was an almost-perfect. blend. Just
enough guitar and drums, but at the same
time, the rhymes and beats were something
radical and dangerously new. And, to my
surprise, I discovered that they were self-
described as an Indie, emo-rap band.

I told everyone I knew about this band
and their strange, addictive music. I bought
their first album, “For the Kids” and was im-
mediately drawn to the simple raps. “Beauti-
ful Day” and “This Thing Called Life” are
still two of my favorite songs, and while
these songs are still obscure, they are a true
representation of the original band.

It has been nearly eight years since that
first album “For the Kids” came out. Sadly,
just like “For the Kids,” the true Gym Class
Heroes are being forgotten.

The other day I was browsing iTunes and
stumbled upon “Patches from the Quilt,” an
extended play of some Heroes music. The

lack of creativity from what used to be such
a revolutionary band shocked me. As I lis-
tened to the song “Cookie Jar,” I got a dis-
tressing sense of what Gym Class Heroes had
become. Meaningful lyrcs were nowhere to
be found.

Importantly it is not so much the music
that Gym Class is making that has changed
them, but the loss of their original inspira-
tions. This is made far too apparent by the
fact that the first album of Gym Class, “For
the Kids,” isn’t even available on iTunes
anymore. Nor can it be purchansed on Ama-
zon or eBay.

So, how can Gym Class Heroes keep up
with their original style when it has been
swallowed up by convention? Even though
at times you can sense the Indie, emo-rap
from the late nineties displayed on their last
album, “As Cruel as School Children,” you
can sadly hear the band slipping into the
mainstream pop scene. While songs like, “7
Weeks,” “Beautiful Day,” “Paper Cuts” and
“Shoot Down the Stars” are all true examples
of the simplistic beauty of Gym Class He-
roes, all it takes is a song like “Cookie Jar’ to
ruin the band for even the most diehard fans.

Hopefully their new album, “The Quilt,”
which was released yesterday, will give some
indication that independent creativity still

Cas a fighting chance,

Chocolate, from page 5

ness he did. The new shop offers delicious
and affordable treats, with 100-year-old reci-
pes from Holland as well as alternative op-
tions such as caffeine-free blends and new
surprises like smoothies and Belgian choco-
late brownies, which are coming soon.

“These recipes are fantastic,” Sue Elliot
said.

Noon- 3:00 PM

Union Atrium

Employers
© « American Cancer Society
o& + Bain & Company
« Bankers Life & Casualty
+ Corporate Executive Board
« Cross-Cultural Solutions

But it get’s better—soon you won’t even
have to leave campus for your cacao fix. Da-
vidson Chocolate Co. is bringing its treats
closer to home.

The Elliot’s plan on creating a chocolate
bar for our own Davidson College Book-
store. Look for the gold foil wrapping and
the Davidson Wildcat logo prominently and
proudly displayed on the wrapper.

| Career Service Career Fair
~ September 24th, 2008

+ Davidson College Human Resources (Fellows)

« Discovery Place

« Edgeview Partners

« Fastenal Company

- Fidus Partners, LLC

« Hartford Financial
Kaplan Testing

Lowe’s Companies, Inc.
« NC Museum of Natural Sciences
« SunGard Consulting
« Teach for America

US Army

« Visit Lake Norman
« Western Southern Life
« WIZY- TV and WWWB- TV

" Graduate Schools

Charlotte School of Law
Elon University

Gardner Webb University
Institute of World Politics

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

UNC Greensboro Graduate School

Bard Program of Globalization and International Affairs
Campbell University School of Pharmacy

NC State— Jenkins School of Management
PSI—Psychological Studies Institute

Sherman College of Straight Chiropractic
UNC C harlotte Graduate Programs

University of South Carolina—Moore School of Business
Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management

» Wake Forest Babcock School of Management & Schoo! of Medicine
