THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ee)
Were initially supposed to y

_
a
lave since = cage our plans and won’ tbe.

-the Dean Rusk” International ‘Studies’ Pro-
"gram; Clark: Ross, Vice President for Aca-

“group: on Deer th
he enor fora few ane ater th

7 “Bennett, se Bae Breeden, 7 Bvan., ‘Colbert,
_ Mary. Hannating,# Kaela. Peale Lindsay

est ‘part for us ,was tying to slay in touch
vith our families d friends to keep

Kaela Franky, ‘who was able to give us he:
Tspective o on the situation, She offered th
oll te

of security in India ‘as compared

ee eR
ea po ares - fovea
11/19/08 23:39 Suspicious Person Belk Parking Lot

A female Davidson student called and reported three suspicious white males in the Belk
Parking Area on Wednesday. Sgt. Tim Ramsey received the call and responded to the
area. While in route, reporting officer obtained additional information from the call-
er. The caller stated that she observed the individuals just standing by a Jeep Cherokee
parked in the center row. The individuals looked suspicious to her because they just stood
next to the vehicle for a minute or so never getting in. She also stated that she didn’t get a
good look, believing that they could have been freshmen. Reporting officer checked the
lot and surrounding area founding nothing out of the ordinary.

11/20/08 01:47 “Do It In the Dark” Deemed Hazardous FirstFloorCannon
While conducting routine foot patrol, an office observed that the first floor of Cannon
Dorm was completely dark due to all the hallway lights being turned off. Officer asked
some students why the lights were out and was advised that the dorm was trying to win
some contest to save energy. It was very dark when entering the hall and could be a
hazard.

11/23/08 3:18 Exit Light Crime Prevention Knox Dorm Exit Lights
On Sunday, Officer Combs conducted a foot patrol of the following areas: Irwin Dorm,
Akers Dorm and Knox Dorm. Officer Combs observed no suspicious activity during
these times, but did observe damage in Knox Dorm. Officer Combs took photographs
of three “Exit” lights that were damaged by unknown persons. The “Exit” lights were
located on the first floor in the following areas:
Main Entrance Door

Hallway Door by Room 101

Hallway Door by Room 107
Officer Combs has reason to believe that the damage occurred some time after 2100 hrs,
because two students in the hallway stated “the area was fine before the Phi Delt party
was complete.”

11/25/08 = 00:27 Bud Light Prevention Chambers
On Tuesday, 11-25-2008, at 0027 hrs Officer Thompson and Officer Chaffee conducted
foot patrol within the following buildings: Richardson Dorm, Belk Dorm, Watts Dorm, ©
and Chambers. The officers observed two Davidson College students in the lecture class-
room (Hance Auditorium) on the fourth floor of the Chambers building drinking Bud
Light beer and watching a movie on the projector screen. The officers observed approxi-
mately seven empty 12 oz. beer cans on the floor and also in their possession.

12/2/08 19:56 Found Property 200 Baker Drive
On Tuesday December 2, 2008 at 1956 hrs Officer Heinz was contacted on the officer cell
phone in reference to a property found. Chief Walker advised during the women’s basket-
ball game, a male spectator brought him a purse that he had found. The man stated that
he found -the purse in the middle of a road in Mooresville, possible Williamson Rd, while
on his way to the basketball game. The males’ name and identity can be obtained through
the Davidson College Police Department. The purse contains an Indiana drivers license.
Reporting officer ran the OLN through NCIC, all comes back negative at this time. Re-
porting officer contacted the Mooresville Police Department Dispatch and advised her of
the situation. The advised that the individual in question is not in their system.

The purse and property are as follows:

One Vera Bradley purse, black, white, red

One Vera Bradley wallet, black, white, red

One $100 dollar bill, U.S. currency
One 5/3 Platinum Master Card
One Sony Cyber-shot Digital Camera, pink
One Bic Lighter, red
One PROAir Inhaler, red

One US Airways E-Ticket for Sunday, November 30 from Chicago O’ Hare to Charlotte
Also other small miscellaneous items

as

MixE ANDERSON
Staff Writer.

Author Peter Charles Melman spoke on
Jewish involvement in the Confederate cause
during the Civil War in the 900 Room of the
Alvarez College Union last Saturday.

Melman’s speech was introduced as being
the first in a series of Jewish culture events.
It was noted that the Jewish community in
the Charlotte area has grown tremendously
in the past several years, so its leaders can
finally bring an event like this to Davidson.

Melman, who graduated from Tufts Uni-
versity with a B.A. and went on earn his Ph.D.
from the University of Louisiana, spoke on
his recently published novel, “Landsman.”

While the novel is set during the Civil
War, Melman does not consider it a Civil
War novel per se; rather, it is a novel framed
against the Civil War.

The more important theme is in the book’s
title, which.is a homonym: landsmen are both
people who live and work on the land and a
Yiddish term for people of the same country.
Melman’s speech examined these two identi-
ties within the context of his novel.

His interest in the topic began years ago,
when he was working in a Seattle bookstore.
He came across a text with the following
line: “Several thousand Jews fought for the
south during the Civil War.”

“Tt seems to me morally ironic. We our-
selves as a people [the Jews] were enslaved,”
Melman said.

To try to understand this statement,
Melman researched thoroughly, contacting
professors at colleges like Louisiana State
University and Tulane University, obtaining
primary texts from the public libraries in his
home of New York and checking the etymol-

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

3

-

io ews and the Confederacy

ogy of the era to ensure his novel would be as
accurate as possible.

His research gave birth to his main char-
acter, Elias Abrams, a New Orleans Jew who
is astereotypical of his religious community.
He is illiterate, tough and navigates the “thug-
gish underground” of his native city, which at
the time had the fourth largest population of
Jews at 4,000 people.

Melman used Abrams’ Civil War story
to explain the seeming contradiction of be-
ing Jewish and supporting a slave-holding
society. “They [Jews] found a home,” Mel-
man said.

According to Melman, those Jews were
able to rationalize their hypocrisy with the
statement “You are at root a southemer.”

To allow for their southern identity, they
had to forget some of their “Jewishness” and
therefore forget their opposition to slavery.
They rationalized in much the same way that
gentiles did: they were fighting in defense of
the land.

Melman’s character eventually comes to
question southern Jews’ efforts in the war.

There was intense anti-Semitism at the
time. Melman said that General Ulysses
Grant tried to ban Jews from an entire area.
Yet, Jews assimilated and therefore forgot
what separated them from the rest of the
southern population, and including their dis-
dain for slavery.

Despite the gravity of the topic, Melman
maintajned a humorous tone throughout the
lecture and appeared to have a very receptive
audience. He said that when his 90-year-old
grandmother shared her reaction to the book,
she called it the “horniest” book she had ever
read.

“You can sanitize war or you can write it
as it is,” Melman said.

‘Students L.E.A.D. in

support of Latina women

Jesse JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Davidson College has a new service
organization on the rise, L.E.A.D. (Latina
Empowerment Achievement and Develop-
ment Program). The group is quickly getting
involved, with a women’s clothes drive cur-
rently taking place on campus.

The organization was founded by Bon-
ner scholar Jessica Gallegos ’11
and has already received a
highly competitive Bon-
ner Community Fund
Grant to help cover
the expenses in be-
ginning the program.

LEAD is a
volunteer-based
program working
in partnership
with the Latino
services at Ada

“4X

Jenkins Center. %, ’ i
The volunteers hope

%,

to provide Latina women
in the Davidson, Lake Nor- +,
man, Huntersville, Cornelius o
and Mooresville areas with inter-
viewing skills, business clothing and career-
related workshops. Through these activities
L.E.A.D. seeks to aid the professional devel-
opment of Latinas.

A program like this would be the perfect
way to serve as a confidence booster for Lati-
na woman, as well as a tool to assist women
in deciding their career path.

During the next couple of months, vol-
unteers will work with Latina women to pick
out business suits that fit them.

The purpose of having a volunteer assist
with this process is to ensure that the women

feel comfortable with what they choose, since
one of the main concepts L.E.A.D members
are trying to teach these women is that con-
fidence is key.

After selecting outfits, volunteers ‘will
then have one-on-one meetings with the
Latina women, to better understand how to
increase their chances of getting hired.
Davidson student-volunteers will
train with Career Services to learn
yy to best help the women with

their applications.

. Volunteers will help
them start or improve a
résumé, explain the
XM, steps to search-
, ing for a job
? and help pre-
pare them
for the- inter-
view process
throughmock
interview.
Students in
% L‘E.A.D. are also pre-
\ pared to further assist the |
~ Latina women in networking.
Q™” = Through Ada Jenkins LE.A.D.
has many opportunities to assist
these women in different ways.

Throughout the year, there will be on-
campus clothing drives for the women that
will participate in L-E.A.D.

The organization is currently collecting
new or used women’s business attire in boxes
at locations around campus, such as Cham-
bers, the Union and residence halls.

This organization hopes to have a pro-
found impact on the Latina women involved.
After this year, if all goes well, Gallegos will
look to extend the program to women of oth-
er identities who face similar obstacles.
