this with a grateful Sat! anticipating free hours next week
to devote to exams and final papers,-Our staff will-al
‘miss the Class of 2008, to whom we offer our heartfelt con-
gratulations. ‘That being said, certain behaviors witnessed
during last weekend’s Spring Frolies made us re-think th
ocial choices of certain alumni visiting campus.
While few. people would deny enjoying the sight of
young children on campus, frolics hardly seems an appro-
priate time to introduce your toddler to your alma mater,
What is fun for students and, yes, alumni can be dangerous
for children left free to run around the court. We’re not say-
ing that every parent acted irresponsibly, but we do ques-
tion the extent to which People put their trust in this cam:
pus..2 26 eee wy

¢ The Davidson community provides a generally safe and -
trusting environment; however, letting your child run up,
the back steps of Warner and only claiming him 15 minutes”
later from a group of women you have never before seen i
‘your life-remains dutiable behavior.
~ Many fraternities and eating houses welcomed their.
umni back for drinks and conversation, maintaining the”
Valuable ties and relationships that extend beyond the four:
years Spent as: a student. Between these events and more.
classy affairs held under white: tents on locations across
campus, alumni were certainly. here. with cause, aye
been invited and welcomed back.
> These alumni were; it seemed, everywhere. Dorm hall-
ays,” the court, the:  Union-—yon name it; this campus
‘devoted “itself. to ?celebrating.” graduated and, current
‘Davidson students, Students and alumni alike, i in turn, cel-
ebrated perhaps a bit too hard. We saw aman ‘passed out in
front of Commons who, while not verifiably an alum, was
certainly not a student, Another staff member witnessed
small child drinking a beer in a Araternity’s. inflatable pool
in, their back porch Some: alumni, even, tried to
they’ve “still got if’ it? hitting on current students,
ur advice is enjoy’ your time while you’re here. Not
very, ‘weekend can be Spring Frolics, but it’s important
take. time out and, visit. Lake Campus during the beautiful

The JBavidsonian

4 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS 6

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

£ News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
»Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
' ~ Arts & Living Editors

Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood
Yowl Editors «~~ a

James Boswell & Alex Hoyt
Sports Editors /

Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle*

Photography Editor a

%, Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman ,.
Business, Advertising and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

: The D Davidsonia
= by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please.
: address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O, Box-718
Davidson, NC 28035- 2 182. Phone (704) 894- 2148. poo

_ E-mail Davidsonian@davidson. edu. Our offices are located in Room
: 411 of the Alvarez College Union.. Opinions expressed in letters fo the
 edifors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of theo”
_ Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 Pe
_ year. Advertising Tales a are > available upon Feques\.

ce ee ge Ae Oe

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson Colleges...

~ about our problems is a great quality in a college. Yet, too

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY

APRIL 30, 2008
D e e e e e
iplomacy crucial in dealing with foes

There’s been a lot of talk on The

Davidsonian’s pages about how
the United States should deal with
some of the most contentious and
tricky situations in the world. On
the one hand; we have authors who
must wear paths in their keyboards
typing the word “terrorist”—a
term that can refer to anyone from -
Ahmadinejad to Osama to Jimmy
Carter. On the other, we’ve seen
articles that espouse a more insu-
yg lar, isolated foreign policy in the
«| world’s hotspots.
It’s true. Dealing with this country’s enemies has never
been easy. The United States has tried out many different
policies, as variegated as espionage, obliteration bombing,
and even sacrifice. And while many ideas and opinions have
come to the table, one among them has rung the most hol-
low: disengagement.

This approach can make its way into policy under the
guise of both liberal and conservative agendas. But the fact
stands that leaving the world to solve its own problems or
deliberately turning the nation’s back to an enemy out of
principle is an ignorant approach to policy.

No matter how despicable the enemy, they must be dealt
with, and not just with a mixture of guns and silence. That’s
right. We have to talk to groups like Hamas, nations like Iran
and people like Moqtada al-Sadr. It is unfortunate that many
still believe that conducting all-level diplomacy with nega-
tive elements like terrorist organizations “legitimizes” them.
Let’s be clear on this: once a terrorist group kills its first
innocent civilian, it is has become sufficiently legitimate.

The myth that America does not engage in talks with its
enemies is absolutely absurd. Think back to the “red phone”
connecting the White House to the Kremlin during the cold
war. The Soviet Union had the capacity to destroy the world
many times over, yet we remained in constant dialogue. Or
go back to Somalia in 1993. The minute we stopped having
tea with General Aideed and began hunting him down, we
began to lose Somalia.

So whether we’re talking about Iraq, Iran, Hamas or North
Korea, silence should never be an option. The strongest tool
in our nation’s arsenal is not our strategy, our military tech-
nology or even our economy — it’s our mouths and our ears.

Diplomacy entails some of the most excruciating sacri-

fices in the most difficult situations. The reason conflicts
remain hot on the ground yet frozen at the table is because
neither side is willing to compromise. Our current, and like-
ly future, position as the world’s most powerful state does
not exempt us from sacrifice. In many cases, the more asym-
metrically powerful the state, the further it must reach in
order to strike a deal.

Surely there will be some cries of “appeasement” right
about now. Of course, diplomacy can be conducted clumsi-
ly. But for every Munich 1938 or Versailles 1919 there’s a
Dresden or a Vietnam. Just because a policy is fallible does
not mean it should not be pursued. When it comes to the
choice between massive casualties and massive conciliation,
however, there is a clear answer.

Giving Iran the cold shoulder, then threatening nuclear
attack, plays right into its leadership’s hands. Dealing only
with a notoriously headstrong Israel and an anemic Fatah
leaves Hamas to consolidate control among Gaza’s growing
number of disaffected people.

Matt Petit .

No matter how despicable the
enemy, they must be dealt with,
and not with a mixture of guns
and silence.

Let Carter talk to Hamas. What further harm can he do?
Unless, of course, the Camp David Accords can be consid-
ered harmful, he’s had a decent track record with dealing
with belligerents. Yes, let’s talk with Iran about its nuclear
program. Threatening massive destruction only solidifies
and confirms its leaders’ rhetoric. Yes, let’s invite al-Sadr to
the table in Iraq and engage with all sides in the conflict to
forge a political solution. Keeping one or many out in the
cold or simply dropping the country will only make things
worse for men and women in Iraq.

Foreign policy is not a matter of sticks and silence. In
order to achieve anything, and with the least loss of life, we
must negotiate, argue and, yes, even make concessions.
Even our worst enemies (and there seem to be many)
deserve our ear. So much more is put at risk by our silence.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major
from Seminole, Fla. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu

Bad day? Don’t blame it on Davidson

JULIA EDWARDS

workload. If you ever find yourself in an awkward silence,
Guest Columnist

just ask someone what work they have for the week. You will
be guaranteed at least 10 minutes of dialogue.

The Davidson workload and the stress it causes are blamed
for all that is evil on our campus. Apparently, our social iso-
lation, our awkward personalities, our binge drinking habits
and our eating disorders are all directly the result of the enor-
mous stress we shoulder.

If it is true that stress inevitably causes all of these things,
I fear for our nation’s CEOs, doctors and other highly
stressed professionals who must all be coming to work hung-
over, agonizing over their body image and returning home to
empty houses because they have forgotten how to interact
with other human beings.

The Davidson workload and the
Stress it causes are blamed for all
that is evil on our campus.

As a staff writer for The Davidsonian (and as a person on
this campus) I constantly hear my friends and fellow students
complain, beginning with the phrase “Well at Davidson...”
Over the past two years, countless students have told me of
their plans to write a Perspectives piece where they can real-
ly tell the school what’s wrong with it. I have covered
forums where students and faculty sit down to address the

(fill in the blank) problem on Davidson campus. And,
apart from being a writer, | have been bombarded with fliers
and e-mails asking me if I am coping with my workload,
readjusting to coming back from abroad and maintaining °
healthy eating habits.

Iam not complaining about complaining. In fact, I feel that
creating so many opportunities to evaluate ourselves and talk

often we blame our problems on the school and an environ-
ment we can’t change rather than taking the initiative to
make the change ourselves.

The complaints range greatly. “We are too homogeneous
and conservative.” “Everyone here is liberal and weird.” “We
have a binge drinking problem.” “People here don’t party
enough.” “This would never happen at Middlebury.” “This
would never happen at UNC.” “Guys here suck.” “Girls here
suck.”

Maybe it’s the “Davidson student in me” that wants to fix
everything, but I do have some advice. If you are unhappy
with your social group, actively seek out students who are
different (or the same) as you are. If you are unhappy with
the social scene, find a group of people to get out of town
with and go to a concert, bar or beach for the weekend; or,
better yet, plan a social function on campus. If you are
unhappy with the dating scene, try getting to know potential
partners before shrugging them off as uninterested or un-dat-
able.

One thing everyone can agree to complain about is the

I do not deny the fact that social dissatisfaction and
unhealthy habits associated with stress exist on Davidson’s
campus. But they also exist in our generation of college stu-
dents as a whole and are not completely the fault of our
school.

We have more ways to get involved than humanly possi-
ble. Can’t find anything that interests you? Start your own
organization.

We have a social system that allows students to drink safe-
ly without having to drive home. We hold daily discussions
on every topic imaginable. We have a Board of Trustees that
is willing to pay for much of the student body to experience
the NCAA tournament in Detroit.

In all, I'd say it’s a pretty great day to be a wildcat...

Julia Edwards ’09 is a Psychology major from Raleigh,
N.C. Contact her at juedwards@davidson.edu.
