IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 23, 2008 .

Indian musicians enlighten concert-goers

By Cara WooDROOF
Staff Writer

Indian musicians Pandit Vishwa Mohan
Bhatt and Subhen Chatterjee graced
Davidson’s Tyler-Tallman Hall last Saturday,
April 19. The Indian Performing Arts
Association of Charlotte (IPAAC) and the
Davidson College Music Department part-
nered to bring the two musicians to campus.

Pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhatt designed the
mohan veena, the instrument he played on
Saturday. The mohan veena is a Western
Hawaiian guitar modified to make a sound
that resembles classical Indian stringed
instruments, like the sitar, sarod and veena.
The mohan veena is a tremendous display of
creativity; Pt. Bhatt brings together design
techniques from the other three instruments,
adding some elements that are totally unique.
He demonstrated to the audience that most
people held the mohan veena flat, but that
actually, the instrument makes better sound
if one holds it on its side, much like a guitar.

The title Pandit, shortened to Pt., is
Sanskrit for “learned.” Pt. Bhatt is a disciple
of Pt. Ravi Shankar, a famous sitar player
and composer. Pt. Shankar gained much of
his international fame from his collaboration
with the Beatles.

Pt. Bhatt has won both the Padma Shree
and the Sangeet Natak Academy award. The
Padma Shree is an award from the
Government of India for profound contribu-
tion to society. The Sangeet Natak Academy
award is Inaia’s highest recognition in the
performing arts.

Pt. Bhatt’s most prestigious award was the
1994 Grammy Award. He won the Grammy
along with Ry Cooder for their World Music
Album, “A Meeting By The River.”

Subhen Chatterjee also shows marked cre-
ativity. He initially based his style of playing
on Lucknow Gharana which he learned from
his Guru, Pt. Swapan Chowdhury. A Gharana
is like an apprenticeship based on a certain
style of playing. A guru is a musical instruc-

Steampunk t

By CAROLINE Woop
Arts and Living Editor

There was a time when Steampunk was
the exclusive domain of sci-fi fans and
comic book readers. Now, fans of the culture
vehemently insist that the genre’s anachro-
nistic fusion of old-fashioned technological
and aesthetic sensibilities and the modern,
even futuristic, lifestyle has become a way of
life.

Steampunk Magazine (“Our lives as fan-
tastic as any fiction!”) explains that “It’s
about ‘steam,’ as in steam-engines, and it’s
about ‘punk,’ as in counter-culture.” It
assures newly recognized artists (like inter-
net favorite Datamancer) that, they are
pleased with the recent media attention their
subculture has been receiving. They are not
satisfied, however, with the exclusive focus
on Steampunk’s concrete material culture,
arguing that Steampunk artists are live art
rather than simply fans who collect pretty
things.

The creative items artists turn out are fas-
cinating: clothes studded with bolts and
cogs, household items paneled in stained
wood and gadgets trapped up with watch
gears. Crafters strive to make their world a
timeless, brazen place. Self-proclaimed
“techno-fetishists,” many take particular
delight in antiquating the most modern tech-
nical apparatuses, from personal computers
and laptops to television remotes, cars and
even RV’s.

tor, who not only is a guide to proper musi-
cal technique but also a life mentor. Subhen
learned techniques and ideas from other
Gharanas; his ability to combine different
musical concepts makes his music special.
Subhen plays the tabla, an Indian drum.
He has been the tabla accompaniment for
many great Indian musicians and has also

Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt performs on this self-designed Mohan Veena

performed solo. Subhen has been one of very
few tabla players to participate in the World
Organization of Music & Dance (WOMAD).
He has worked with other famous artists,
including flutist Paul Horn and David Cosby.
He has recently worked with percussionist
Sivamani; his work with Sivamani enabled
him to create a fusion band, Friends of
Drums (FOD). FOD helps less famous but
talented musicians gain the stage, and it
plans to help old or handicapped musicians
who have much to offer to have an opportu-
nity to play music.

The most amazing thing about these two
artist is not as much their credentials as their
approach to performance. Unlike Western

Like most subcultures, the world of
Steampunk thrives on the internet, where
websites tout new industrial designs, blog-
gers disseminate their ideas and steamsters
investigate the newest events and develop-
ments. Hieronymus Isambard “Jake” von
Slatt, steam hero and proprietor of the

Richard Nagy tinkering with newly refurbished Steampunk gadgets

music performances, Indian musical per-
formances are improvised and change each
time. Musicians have to be consistently cre-
ative. If a musician is accompanying anoth-
er, he must be very attentive to the decisions
the musican he is accompanying will make.
Pt. Bhatt and Subhen clearly communicated
with one another using body language while

they were playing. Pt. Bhatt might give a
firm nod to let Subhen know that he should
hit the tabla drum hard. Subhen would look
back at Pt. Bhatt and nod again. They consis-
tently maintained eye contact and seemed to
move in sync.

As Dr. Stasack, Chair of the Davidson
Music Department, said before the perform-
ance, Subhen plays the tabla in a very special
way; in his hands, the tabla takes new form.
The tabla is not played with sticks; the hand
directly strikes the drum head. Subhen
seemed to have a natural ability to move his
hands on the drum to make the perfect
sound. His playing transcended simply obey-
ing rhythm or dynamics. He seemed to let

Steampunk Workshop, has acquired an
enthusiastic coterie who eagerly await the
unveiling of his every project, all exercises
in disguising the ugliest of twenty-first cen-
tury gear. Inventor and mad scientist Richard
R. Nagy has entitled his favorite PC project
The Nagy Magical-Movable-TypePixello-

the perfect micromovements come out of his
own heart.

Pt. Bhatt showed off the endless musical
expressions of his mohan veena. He could
strum the mohan veena fast and loud to cre-
ate the effect of excited rush. He could slide
up to piercingly high tones. It was especially
moving when he came to a very high tone
and slid between microtones. Microtones are
tones between recognized notes. High
microtone sliding gives a powerfully melan-
choly effect. Sometimes Bhatt and Subhen
pounded out loud notes together and nodded
with the pulse; at these times, they resembled
rock musicians strumming to a hard pulse.
The audience became especially active at
these times. Some audience members rolled
their heads around, shook their heads, or
nodded. In Indian culture, shaking one’s
head can mean one is struck with the beauty
of the music.

The performance was three hours. long,
very long for a Western concert but typical
for many Indian pieces. One of the pieces
Bhatt and Subhen played was one hour and
fifteen minutes, not an unusual ‘length. The
pieces often contained both meditative, quiet
and loud, rapturous parts. The musicians
tended to build, getting louder and faster
until they came to high virtuosity and a sense
of rapture at the finish of a piece. Pieces
express a specific mood or situation.

One piece they played depicted the emo-
tion of being away from someone you love.
Another rendered a springtime sensation.
For the last piece in the performance, Pt.
Bhatt announced that they would play his
Grammy winning piece.

The audience mysteriously failed to clap,
and befuddled, he said in a thick Indian
accent, “No clapping?” The audience real-
ized their mistake, laughed, and proceeded to
give him a hardy applause. They were so
spiritually moved, a Grammy really didn’t
seem that important anymore. Judging by his
smile though, Pt. Bhatt still was very proud
of the award.

akes a fresh look at Victorianism

Dynamotronic Computational: Engine: a
Retrofuturist Steampunk Computer Case
Modification.Fans of such innovation have
plenty of literary fodder. Now on its fourth
issue, Steampunk Magazine has been
delighting lovers of neo-Victorian art, craft,
fiction and thought since last September.
Visitors to the magazine’s website are greet-
ed with a Steampunk manifesto praising our
glorious past of mechanical idiosyncrasies
and monstrous, capricious machinery. An
enemy of the “fascism of copyright,” the
magazine offers free printable downloads of
its entire layout. The publication is covered
under the liberal Creative Commons license.

The world of music isn’t safe either. In
keeping with a movement celebrating the
glories of “retro-futurism,” steampunk musi-
cians infuse epic classical themes and classic
rock songs with electronic “Victorian-synth”
and phonograph static. Vernian Process’s
“The Symphonic Collection” features syn-
thesized versions of the creepiest and most
fantastic in concert music, including the likes
of Saint-Saens’ “Danse Macabre” and
Mussorsky’s “Night on Bald Mountain.”

Other albums include covers of Depeche
Mode, Joy Division and The Cure and origi-
nal works with names like “Empire Lost”
and “The Elegance of Espionage.” The cov-
ers of Holst and Bach feel empty and reduc-
tive, obviously stripped of their symphonic
richness, and even original songs feel more
atmospheric than musical. That atmosphere,
however, is addictive.
