THE DAVIDSONIAN

Five

By Suzie Eck_
Editor-in-Chief

The Board of Trustees promoted five asso-
ciate professors to full professorship last
week after a decisions process that began
early last fall semester. The professors
receiving promotion are English department
members Dr. Shireen Campbell, Dr. Annie
Ingram and Dr. Randy Ingram, Dr. Jeanne
Neumann of the classics department and as
Dr. Donna Molinek of the mathematics
department.

According to the Faculty Handbook, the
full professorship position is open to associ-
ate professors serving at least six years on
the faculty and is “an honor conferred on fac-
ulty who have made significant contributions
to the College since having received tenure
and who show promise of career-long dis-
tinction.” All five promoted faculty members
have demonstrated these qualities.

“They certainly deserve this honor,” said

ANNIE INGRAM RANDALL INGRAM

NEws
professors offered promotion

>

ae

English Department Chair Dr. Elizabeth
Mills of her co-workers. “They are some of
the most active and engaged faculty on cam-
pus.”

In addition to teaching courses like Young
Adult Literature and a Memoir seminar,
Campbell has served as the Director of the
Writing Center. Several of her in-class proj-
ects have motivated students to publish their
writing in on-campus publications such as
the Davidson Encyclopedia.

Annie Ingram has also extended her serv-
ice outside of her department, serving first as
director of the Center for Interdisciplinary
Studies for three years and now serving as
director for the new Environmental Studies
concentration.

Two other professors, Randy Ingram and
Neumann, have been recognized previously
for their incredible efforts and influence on
campus with the Hunter-Hamilton Award, an
honor based on student recommendations for
those demonstrating a love of learning. Both

a wee dd <

on the opportunity to see the
world from a unique perspective

If you're curious and adventurous
then pack your bags and say
goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit,
“experience a different culture, learn
a foreign language, discover who
you are and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.™

re
&

Earth phota courtesy of NASA: The Visible Earth, hup://visibleearth.nasa.gov/

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

SHIREEN CAMPBELL

Ingrams also create an intimate learning
experience in their larger survey courses by
holding two sessions on Fridays, thus reduc-
ing class sizes and promoting discussion.
They also offer treats like bagels or candy as

incentive to attend the second sessions, and
Students have unsurprisingly responded
enthusiastically.

Molinek, who has taught at Davidson for
almost 16 years and specializes in topology,
has often extended her teaching beyond the
normal academic year, instructing high
school students in the annual July
Experience and leading Davidson students
for the Ghana summer program in 2006.

The promotions process unites every level
of faculty on campus. At the beginning of the
fall semester, chairs and the full professors of
each department meet to discuss those facul-
ty members qualified for a higher position.

The associate professors nominated must
then prepare an application that will undergo
review by. the Vice President of Academic

DONNA MOLINEK

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008 3

JEANNE NEUMANN

Affairs Dr. Clark Ross, College President
Tom Ross and the Board of Trustees. Every
member of the department and even, under
certain circumstances, members from other
departments have the opportunity to submit
evaluations or letters for their peer professor.
Full-time professors who have taught at
least five years at Davidson also have anoth-
er opportunity for honor right now on cam-
pus. The President’s Office is currently
accepting recommendations from students
for the faculty’s two Hunter-Hamilton
Awards. Each award consists of a $15,000
cash prize to be split between the recipient
and the recipient’s department or program of
choice. Letters detailing a professor’s com-
mitment to enthusiasm, dedication, encour-
agement, fair treatment and clarity in the
classroom will be accepted until March 23.

to the winners!

SGA President: Davis Greene
SGA Vice-President: Ali Karami Ruiz
Union Board President: Ben Van Dyke
Union Board Vice-President: Allison Ruhe
ATC Vice-Chairperson: Robert Lassiter
CCRL Reps: Stephen Kalin
Artie Van Sciver
Katie Rae Mulvey
Alexandra McArthur
Student Conduct Council Rep:
Alexandra McArthur and Jessica Walker
United Community Action President:
Kyle Konrad
Review Board: Teresa Wang
Honor Council Student Solicitors:
Will DeLoache and Rebecca Morton
Honor Council Defense Advisors:
Anna Marie Smith and Brad Bankos

