2 THE DAVIDSONIAN
eee *

Primaries, from page 1

lems in Washington now and what he thinks
must change in order to secure a quality
future for generations to come.

“What really stood out was his ability to
unite the audience, both black and white,
female and male, young and old,” Todd
Resly ’10 said.

Patty Herold ’10 was lucky enough to sit
onstage during Obama’s speech.

“One of the best parts of being onstage
during the rally was my perfect view of the

‘The energy was incredible as
thousands of people voluntarily
stood out in the freezing cold,
cheering, laughing and signing
petitions.”

-Emily Cetrone ‘10

whole auditorium. It was amazing to see
everyone’s excitement and support during
the speech, and being able to watch the
crowd react made Obama’s words even more
powerful,” said Herold.
The difference in speech styles between
Sens. Clinton and Obama was drastic.
Clinton had a very informative style which
focused on detailing the policies she would
implement if elected.

Conversely, Obama spent much of his

NEWS
‘Soup’ tackles housing

speech explaining the ideologies he believes
Americans should value and stressed the
drastic importance of change.

While Obama did discuss what he wants to
change if he were elected, he did not specif-
ically address how he plans to implement
these policies as specifically as Hillary did.

“Whereas Hillary focused primarily on
what Bush has done wrong and how we as a
nation are falling behind, Obama focused on
the possibility in this election that we have to
become unified under the common theme of
change and become the leader in the interna-
tional world that we once were,” Resly said.

The opportunity to see and hear the two
frontrunner Democratic presidential candi-
dates in person brought politics to life for the
group of Davidson students in attendance.

Results for the South Carolina Primary
were announced last Saturday. Sen. Obama
won with 55 percent of the vote. Sen.
Clinton received 27 percent of the vote,
while Former Senator Edwards received 18
percent. The presidential candidates are now
gearing up for Super Tuesday on Feb. 5, in
which 22 states will hold primaries or cau-
cuses.

Note: The Davidsonian is a non-partisan
publication. As such, we do not endorse any
specific candidate or party.

By SARAH MCILROY
Staff Writer -

The New York Giants will tackle the
Patriots on Sunday, but at last weekend’s
Souper Bowl, Hands Around
Mecklenberg/Mooresville Making
Emergency Repairs Safely (HAMMERS)
and Engage for Change tackled the issue of
substandard housing.

Saturday’s event marked the fourth year
that the organization HAMMERS teamed up
with Davidson College to raise funds and
delight taste buds. The collaboration
between Davidson College and the Davidson
Housing Coalition started off small, serving
only a few soups at a luncheon in the Union,
but-it grew quickly and has been in the Lilly
Family Gallery the past three years.

Many of the attendees sampled all t1
soups, each of which was designated to one
of three categories: creamy, chunky and most
creative. The soup-tasters were given ballots
and asked to choose the best soup in each of
the categories in addition to a best soup over-
all. Accolades and a plaque awaited the win-
ning restaurants.

Margaret Martens, chairman of HAM-
MERS, said that the past winners truly
appreciated the prize and tended to display
the plaques in their stores.

“The restaurants really like the recogni-
tion,” Martens said.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

HAMMERS solicited sponsorships from
restaurants in four towns, including
Huntersville, Mooresville, Cornelius and
Davidson in order to appeal to a variety of
citizens and tastes. Those looking for some-
thing more than lunch were also treated to a
silent auction, which contributed to the fund-
raising efforts.

“Potters and wood-turners from the Lake
Norman area donated their work and people
bid on pieces,” Martens said.

The silent auction generally brings in
about a fifth of the total revenue raised at the
event. The money goes toward addressing
problems like rotten stairs, leaks, unstable
floors and wheelchair ramps in low-income
houses around the area. Last year HAM-
MERS spent $68,525 in repairs and has
repaired over 65 homes _ since
2005. However, more people are stil! clam-
oring for help with their homes in spite of the
help HAMMERS has already given to home-
owners.

“We always have a waiting list — we’ve ’
decided we can manage eight homes at a
time,” Martens said.

The average price of safety repairs is about
$1,667 per home. The Souper Bowl is one
vital way to work toward these necessary
funds.

See Soup, page 4

Meet the Mayor and Town Commissioners

Name: John M. Woods (Mayor)

Place of Birth: Charlotte, NC

Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: Davidson
native (was away for approximately 20 years with undergraduate, Army, and
first 13 years of my banking career)

Number of years served on Town Board: 10 (six as Mayor pro-tem)

Favorite sport: Golf and Hunting

Name: Marguerite (Margo) Williams

Place of Birth: Houston, TX

Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 30

Number of years served on Town Board: 12

Favorite sport: Professional Football (to watch); Tennis (to play)

One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: The continued build-
ing of affordable housing throughout town, both rental and single-family for

One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Expand our commitment to open
space and greenways.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Our development in Davidson has been well-
managed. We do need to strengthen certain weaknesses in our Planning, Affordable Housing,
and Tree ordinances. We must demand the best work developers can produce, assuring that
when land owners decide to develop their land, that the development is done in a high-qual-
ity, complementary fashion to our community.

Opinion on the potential light rail: I believe we have great potential to offer this serv-
ice which is a very necessary part of our transportation mix.

Name: Laurie Venzon

Place of Birth: Pittsburgh, PA

Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 16

Number of years served on Town Board: Zero

Favorite sport: Pro Football (to watch)

4 One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Being one of five com-
i missioners, most of our goals and what we accomplish over the next two

years, will be what I consider “team goals” — what we achieve together. However, on a per-

sonal level, a goal I have is for people to feel that I have served them well. By that I mean,

they believe J listen to them, am approachable/accessible, responsive, proactively commu-

nicate and represent them well.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Given the economy, we may see development
slow down for a short period; however, it will continue. The key is to ensure that we grow
and allow development in way that enhances our town and is beneficial for those who live
and work here.

Opinion on the potential light rail: The north line will be a “commuter rail” (not light rail)
and I believe it is an effort worth pursuing. There is still much work to be done in terms of
engineering studies, planning, financing, etc., but it would be a valuable service for the towns
of Huntersville, Comelius, Davidson and Mooresville to have in near the future.

Name: Evan Webster
Place of Birth: Rochester, NY
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 18
Number of years served on Town Board: 2
Favorite sport: Golf
One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Complete the upgrade
» of MI Connection Communications System and provide citizens with
” enhanced communications products and superior customer service.
Opinion on development as it stands now: Davidson is doing the best job in the area in
controlling the rate of growth and ensuring the highest quality of development.
Opinion on the potential light rail: We need the light rail to ensure a multi-modal approach
to the transportation needs of the area and region.
One of your favorite things about the Town: Being able to walk around town and receive
the positive strokes you getting from running into people you really enjoy.

ownership, so that Davidson remains a place where people of all walks of
life can call home. This helps in our goal of having Davidson be a sustainable small town,
not just a bedroom community of Charlotte.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Our planning document has done an admirable
job of assuring that we get an attractive mix of housing types and uses, but we still need to
achieve a better balance in our tax base, by decreasing residential and increasing commercial
uses and in attracting more jobs to our town.

Opinion on the potential light rail: I believe in the importance of light rail, for many rea-
sons — gas is at an all-time high of $100 a barrel, which will translate into higher prices at the
pump. We want our community to have a lighter carbon footprint, so we have to develop tran-
sit options that do not involve cars, and land-use policies that follow rail help ease suburban
sprawl and add to the walkability of town.

Name: Bill Johnson
Place of Birth: Lakewood, OH
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 6
Number of years served on Town Board: 0
Favorite sport: Golf
One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Establish a priority of
Saal goals along with funding sources to fulfill the mission of Davidson to the
highest level possible.
Opinion on development as it stands now: Rapid, but controlled growth
Opinion on the potential light rail: A necessity, but needs to be complementary with the
citizen’s desire for Davidson to retain the characteristics of a small town.

Name: Brian Jenest

Place of Birth: Boston, MA

Number of years served on Town Board: 0

Favorite sport: Snow Skiing

One goal to accomplish while in office: I would like to forge a region-
al relationship with the surrounding towns to begin to address issues of
mutual interest such as transportation and future land use.

Opinion on development as it now stands: Given the rapid growth of
our area over the last several years, through its Planning Ordinance, Planning and Design
Review Boards and Town Board leadership, Davidson has done an excellent job in control-
ling growth while increasing property values and providing needed tax base.

Opinion on potential light rail: Mass transit is a very important part of Davidson’s future.
As we grow as a region, providing alternatives to the automobile and creating land uses that
are compact and provide a mix of uses will be essential to our sustainability.

Favorite thing about the Town: We live in an area that is very desirable and therefore there
are many development pressures. However, Davidson is a town that has managed to respect
its past through the preservation of its history and character, but also is looking to the future
in a proactive, progressive way by providing and promoting affordable housing, mass transit
and preservation of open space. This is not a small task and for this I am most proud and for-
tunate to be a part of this community.

Tebesee eee ee AT! Dhotos courtesy of Town of Davidson Website (Www.ci davidson.nc.us)**#FEE HEE EERE REE AREE
