Tue Davipsontan

Sig Ep, from page 1
Self Selection as “subUe hazing” and-then,
shut down Sig Ep's activities for the night
afer only about 15 minotes,

Schultz conceded that Sig Ep had a
valid point in that the College bad sent
mixed messages to Sig Ep. Aocording to
‘Schultz, other fraternities are allowed to
Send their pledges “running balf naked”
around Patterson Court on Self Selection
night. and numerous other fraternities and
eating houses engege in what could be
deemed hazing during the same event.
However, Sig Ep was under probation and
careful scrutiny.

‘Schultz stressed that by no means does
she want 10 shut down the fraternity, bat
that she does want Sig Ep to fea a lesson.

Defense Advisor DJ Carella '09 and the
rest of the fraternity were given one day to
prepare for the tal: the administration
informed them on Monday thet the triat
would occur the following evening. All
Sig Ep members ia attendance at the tal,
new members inchued. had diferent tec:
gilections of Self Selection from Schultz.
Brown and Perilio.

‘According to the Sig ip New Member
Educator Patrick Polen °08. the activities
were designed for the members to get to
know cach other. Pledges were 1 learn
information about other members of the
fraternity in their house’s basement, and
then they would compete in trivia gumcs
designed to help them get to know one
another at a senior apartment, Afterward.
they would tzavel olf campus to cat pizza
and learn fratemity cheers. All of the
activities planned for the night were
approved by Schultz, but they were not
discussed in great detail because Schultz's
main concern was that all of the activities
were alcohol-free, which Polenz stated
that they were

Carella confirmed that the lights were
off in the house not to create an atmnos-
phere of intimidation, but one of excite-
ment. As pledges walked into the house,
they were greeted with welcoming cheers
and excitement from the brothers.
However, since the activities were stopped
50 soon, only five pledges were able to
experience the exciternent of being wel-
comet into the hows.

Additionally, while brothers were
yelling obscenities at the pledges, it was
done in a lighthearted manner. Several
former pledges who testified at the trial
staved that the brothers were yelling things:
like “Ron Paul ‘O8t" and “Expletive!” and
other things that were comical and not
insimidating in he least

Other members who testified al the trial
also confirmed that brothers were not
throwing objects from inside of the house,
bat were lobbing bagels off the roof of the
house. Accord to brothers at the rial,

throwing bagels off the roof of the house is
a common practice at many Sig Ep dinners
as a form of comic relief. Additionally,
‘both brothers and former pledges testified
Uiat no one threw-an apple out of the win-

dow of Ihe house. While the matter of
apples and bagels was not particularly per-
nent to the tral and to the matter of hz-
ing, the discussion of these objects Tight-
ened the somewhat tense atraosphere of
the trial.

Carella confirmed that while the broth
ets did yell at an individual to put his shirt
fon, it was a brother and nots Schultz fact
assumed. a pledge.

Carella also clarified the maver of the
supposed threat thet only 24 members
would be initiated into the house.
According 10 Carella. Schoite misheard
the quotation: brothers had actually yelled
at the pledges, “There are 25 of you here,
but there should be 26." As it turns out,
he 26th pledge is a ringer or sorts. He is
actually a brother and nol part of the
pledge class, so the activity is done in
order 10 trick the pledges into thinking
they have left one of their members

NEws

behind. This isa Sig Ep ritual done year
after year, According to Carelie. itis done
in order to stress “the unity of the class”
so thot they can understand that as frater-
nity brothers. they need t0 took out for
each other.

+ Many of Sig Ep’s wimesses atthe tial
were pledges at Self Selection, and ail
confiemed that they did not fee! inimidat-
¢d or demeaned by what had occurred thet
night. All shared thal they had boen exeit-
ed and eager and were exteemely disap-
pointed when the festivities: were cut
short. Additionatty, Carella received
signed statements saying they hadn't felt
intimnideted or demesned from all but one
‘of the pledges, who could not be reached
in time given the lack of advance prepara
tion time for the wiat.

‘While Schutiz stressed that the issue of
the brothers prohibiting pledges from
speaking constituted 4 viglation of Article
18 of the Patterson Court New Member
Bill of Rights. the brothers present at the
lial stated that they didnot actively
enforce a prohibition from speaking. as
pledges were permitted to whisper
amongst each other and laugh as they sat
outside of the house,

The issue of whether or not Sig Ep vio-
Inted the New Member Bill of Rights is
‘central {o the case. but new Sig Ep mew»
ber Hugh Dowlen ‘i1, wo testified at the
ial, stated that as an Honor Council
member, he didn’t feel Sig Ep had violal-
ed the New Member Bill of Rights.

Sig Ep Chaplain Arie Van Sciver “09
also testified at the tial. Seiver leads the
Sig Ep “standards board.” which is an
internal, j-board that operates independ:
‘ently of the Sig Ep house and follows the
Sig Ep rules. nthe past the Sig Ep stan-
dards board has imposed harsh sanctions,
including expulsion from the fratemity,
on Sig Ep members in the past for inérac-
ons. Sciver found no need to investigate
the events of Self Selection Night. and
dcems tne activities of the night appropri-
ate, He stated that “new members were
fot held accountable to being quia.”
Furthermore, some brothers, including
Andrew Hathaway “08, even went outside
of the house (© introduct themselves 10
te pledges

Im her closing statement, Meeks stated
that an intimidation factor did exist. She
also pointed out inconsistencies inthe tes-
imonics sbout the whereabouts of
Polenz. Polen stated that be was inside
the house for much of the event, wile
others said he was outside speaking to the
pledges for most of the event. which is
why the pledges were being. silent
However. Polenz stated that he was actu-
ally ronning back and fo from inside
the house to outside throughout the event,

In his closing statement, Carella
brought up the “double standard” Sig Ep
is being subjected to, “given what goes on
on the court.”

Coreila argued that in the past, police
officers and even Dean of Students Tom
Shandtey had witnessed the same Seif
Sclection ritual occur in prior years, and
that their activities had never been halted
‘pefore. Carella urged that if Sig Ep were
to be punished for their activities, it would
be sending the message to all Patterson
Court members that “the only way to
avoid an investigation is to conduct altour
activites secretly.”

Coarelia stated that aie Sig Ep howe
‘ight in front of the Campus Police office,
which gave a high degree of transpareacy
tothew activities for the evening. He con
tinued that since Sig Ep got in trouble for
“playing by the rules” in a-very open set-
ting. other houses will not have any incen-
tive to "be sansparent and open with the
administration.” However. in onder for
relations between Patterson Court and the
administration to improve, “honest dis-
course” is necessary,

‘Weonespay, Aprit 30, 2008 3

SGA announces faculty awards

AL KOWALESKI
‘Staff Writer

Last’ Thursday, the Student Government
Association (SGA) met to discuss and vote
on the Activities Tax Councit (ATC) budget,
introduce the GPA Task force Resolution and
select the winners of the SGA Faculty
‘Awards. The meeting was presided over by
Student Body President David Greene "09
and the majority of senators were in atten-
dance.

‘The first order of business for SGA was 10
vote on the annual ATC budget. which allo-
cates money ta the many clubs and student
organizations on campus

‘The only significant issue brought up dur-
ing this discussion was a proposition to
increase the funding for Hobart Park,
Davidson's annual literary magazine, by
$600, both retroactively for this year as well
as for the coming academic year.

‘This request was additional $600 to cover
an increase in publishing fees. This change
‘was agreed upon unanimously by the sena-
tors, and when put 10 a vote. the entire ATC
budget was approved unanimously.

Next came an update ftom three commit-
tee chairs. Somia Huang "10 spoke sbout
fature building projects at Davidson, inelud-
ing the expansion of the lounge areas and
remodeting of the bathrooms in Richardson
dormitory.

She also addressed the potential of
obtainging a childcare facility for faculty
families.

Finally, Huang discussed ecological issues
at Davidson, including he possibility of
retrofitting solar panels on buildings, and
introducing low-flow showerheads through-
‘out the campus,

Siephen Pierce "10 of the Athletics

Committee introduced his new proposal,
formed in conjunction with the Publicity
Committee, to broaden the Davidson fan
base beyond men's basketball.

According to this proposal, o obtain some
‘of the more desirable seats for men’s basket-
ball games, students would have to attend a
sufficient oumber of other sporting events.
Pierce also raised the idea of using the
Freshman Olympics night during orientation
to teach the incoming freshmen the
Davidson cheers and chants.

‘On the agenda next was a discussion of the

GPA Task Force Resolution, which supports
the creation of a task force to investigaie
grading policy and academic culture and its
effects both at Davidson and afier gradua-
tion.
According to the resotution, the task force
would be comprised of equal mumbers of
faculty, staff, students and trustees.
Discussion within the SGA on this resolution
focused on a possible timetine tobe added 10
the recommendation, a well as whether
there were a sufficient number of trustees
‘willing to serve on the committee,

‘As planned. the resolution was tabled fora
vole one week Tater.

Greene gave an update on the Diversity
Coordination Board, which would soon elect
four senators to the SGA. A motion was then
put forth to elect Polly Draganova “09 as
chairman of the Diversity Coordination
Board, and this motion was passed with no
dissentions but several abstaining votes.

‘The SGA then moved to voting on the
‘winners for the SGA Overall Faculty Award.

After reading the testimony of students in
favor of each of the award finalists, Greene
held the final voues. Dr. Russell Crandall
won the overall award.

Greene then adjourned the meeting.

Nina Mace.
‘News Editor

Ever wonder how much that swipe of
your CatCard in Commons actually costs?
What's the difference in value for each
real plan? Want to make a more educated
choice of meal plans for next semester?

So do we. in fact, we whipped out our
calculators to determine an approximate
break-down of how much you pay for each
meal during the 16-week semester, using
each meal plan. (Note: Bonus Bucks were
subtracted from the total before average
ost per meal was calculated),

19 Meal Pian
‘Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $100.00
Average Cost per Meal:
(5 guest meals}

16 Meal Plan
Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $250.00
Average Cast per Meak: $7.75
43 guest meals) -

14 Meal Plan
Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $150.00

Food for Thought

‘Avernge Cost per Meal: $7.92
G guest meats)

10 Meal Plan
Total: $1600.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $150.00

Average Cost per Meal: $9.06

5 Meal Plan
Total: $999.75 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $200.00
‘Average Cost per Meal: $10.00

5 Meal Pian (No Bonus Bucks)
Total: $810.75 per semester
No Bonus Bucks

Average Cost per Meal: $10.13

Senior { Meal Plan
‘Total: $117.00

No Bonus Bucks

‘Average Cost per Meal: $7.31

‘Vail Commons Cash Door Prices:
Breakfast: $6.96

Laoch: $8.25

Dinner: $9.95

‘Union Cash Equivalency:
Dinner: $6.50 (limited items)

