8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Postgame thoughts and future promise.

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor Emeritus

Walking out of Ford Field after
Davidson’s 57-59 loss to top-seeded Kansas
in the Elite 8, I felt every single emotion
imaginable: pain at watching my friend and
classmate sit at center court after missing the
game-winning shot...hhappiness that these
Wildcats had advanced so far and fought so
valiantly... numbness in realizing that I would
never again watch a Davidson basketball
game as a Davidson student...shattered hope
that these Wildcats could fulfill some sort of
destiny that seemed right there for the taking.

But the whirl of thoughts and feelings
were quickly brought to a singular head
when I stepped out onto the street. Mobs of
reporters and locals flocked to the exodus of
Davidson red, looking for interviews and
offering consolation.

‘Don’t worry, we will see you back here in
the Final Four next year!” they shouted.

What? Do you have any idea what you are
talking about? Davidson had not made it past
the first round of the NCAA Tournament for
39 years.

And they just had a shot to make it to the
Final Four! This opportunity does not hap-
pen every year for a team from a one-bid
league with an enrollment of 1,700 students
and rigorous admission standards. This year
was a miracle, and it may never be replicat-
ed in my lifetime.

Those were my immediate responses. That

was the pain talking, but I realized that it was.

also my selfishness talking. I wanted my sen-
ior year to end in miracles from the national
semifinals.

On the morning after the game, I realized
that despite all of the games, practices and
interviews that I’ve seen with this team over
the last four years, those strangers in Detroit
actually had a better perspective on
Davidson right now than I did.

This run, while magical, was certainly not

SPORTS

miraculous. Davidson was not and is not a
Cinderella and didn’t need the help of a fairy
godmother to knock off Gonzaga,
Georgetown and Wisconsin.

The NCAA Tournament accomplishments
of Davidson reflected the lump sum of a
rational set of terms more than some sort of
discovery of a magic glass slipper. When
you add exceptional talent to unceasing hard
work to faith in one’s teammates to trust in
outstanding coaching to the uplifting sup-
port of a passionate army of followers, you
get the type of performance that Davidson
demonstrated in the NCAA Tournament. I
guess I just underestimated the absolute
value of each term.

Over the past two weeks, this team
showed the world, and us locals, that it is a
part of one of the elite programs in college
basketball. Bob McKillop might only coach
in the Southern Conference, Belk Arena
might only hold 5,700 people and Stephen
Curry might have only gotten scholarship
offers from mid-major programs, but
Davidson’s Basketball program, the sum of
all its parts, is undeniably elite.

So maybe those Detroit locals were right
that we’d be back in Detroit this time next
March.

Maybe my Mom was right in suggesting
that since Kansas was graduating so many
players, we’d be able to knock them off next
year.

Maybe Jason Richards, Thomas Sander
and Boris Meno will get to join the elite
company of all of the great Davidson bas-
ketball alums before them as they move to
the front row of the cheering section and
marvel at the continuation of a very special
and successful basketball program.

This is a program of trust, commitment
and care. But there is also hope. Hope that
can never be shattered like the glass of
Cinderella’s slipper. Hope that knows that
Davidson will return next year, and the year
after, and the year after that.

Stephen Curry 10 drives by Wisconsin guard Michael Flowers for two of his
game-high 33 points in the round of 16. Curry set an NCAA record by scoring at
least 30 points in his first four career tournament games.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

yr

a

Stephen Curry ’10 wows the crowd, Lebron James included, with al an acrobatic lay-
up between two Wisconsin defenders. Curry was named the Midwest Regional’s
Most Outstanding Player.

0 and a half games \ with a broken thumb,
uit” making baskets, aes foul and 7

a

man show/ But. the ‘shirts-that ALeBron.
oming” ‘off: the nee against «2 dropped off at. the hotel where. the team.
Kansas, and being absolutely eon », was staying in Detroit said something ve

oe Oe é

_ different: “Witness Davidson’,

math eee if i had to run the number
1 would inevitably come to the conclusio

Be

nd Jason Richards taking the entire ~ And.as the enthusiastic: “Go Cats” sign:

_ offensive burden ‘on_ his.’ ‘back, against. © . proudly written on car windows and th
: _ Georgetown i in the first half when we could toilet paper strewn over the campus trees:

_ Not get. the ball. in. the. hands of, Stephen 4 ~ in celebration melt away to nothing in the
: : ae : yf rain, I can’t help but feel that the legend of,

© 20h yeah, “ and if will ‘emember Stephen ” the 2008 Davidson Wildcats will not fade:
« Curry: It. will be- a long time before I, or & as. easily. Davidson Basketball has made. a:
=-anyone else for that matter, will beable to.‘ worldwide name for Davidson, and we are.
adequately » describe . the performances “indebted to every member of that. team
teph conjured in this tournament. , They brought Davidson the type of reco
All tournament he was like a hybrid of . nition that other up- ~and-coming,, small li
| Reggic- Miller. and a*hummingbird on ¢fal arts schools woulddie for:?> 2%
speed: the way he buzzed around the court... ; We are. no longer that school getting
_ Coming off two, three or even four screens Moped by some ACC powerhouse: on
before acquiring that tiny space necessary’ : ESPN2’ once’ a year that ‘offers. their st
‘sink unbelievable shot after unbelievable dents -a: free laundry’ service and. has a
shot. His. performances. attracted. the like verage SAT of 1300 of 1400 or whateve

of ‘LeBron | James.’ sho: even “created iti is, We are something much more than.
ra that, and. we have no one to thank but the

a _ members of the Davidson Basketball team. .

