STAPF Eprrortai.

Last t weekend saw / the i increase ‘of police presence at. ‘the
“Martin Court F apartment building, raising student concern
‘over carding for underage. drinking.“ The reason for the
increase had less to do with drinking policy than with

Heaps of beer cans and Solo cups are strewn about in th
grass, and physical plant. staff members must later ta
responsibility for cleaning up after students too drunk or
too inconsiderate to dispose of their waste themselves: Just
two weeks ago, students living in the apartment threw
eral trash bags full of garbage over the balconies and on’
the ground below, Raccoons later spread the junk: all ov
the lawn, and again, this was the physical plant’s proble
This kind of student behavior is unacceptable and certain
ly an embarrassment for both Davidson and the stude
body as a whole, 0 a.» semen

Contrary to what many students believe, the suggestion
to raise the number of policemen down the hill, specifica
ly at apartment F, did not originate with RLO. Instead, afte:
a series of discussions with senior apartment residents: stu:
dents requested that-more trashcans and recycle. bins
placed ‘outside and in the stairwells. When. that solutio
failed to provide results this semester, it was again students.
who suggested the next step: upping the police presence.
_ The response to the inerease after this first weekend h
been less than positive from the student community. Man
Students’ worry. that the social atmosphere. on campu
‘under threat and that underage ‘students will no longer
to the senior apartments on Friday and Saturday nights for
fear that they will be carded, Such concerns are justifie
At acollege where students study with i intensity and since
ity, ahealthy s social environment is necessary 4
_ But what exists now is not healthy, Few "would argue ‘that
Davidson students conduct themselves i ina respectful, an
‘Considerate manner, but why do some students think that”
the rules do not apply. after they havea couple of beers?”
Why does Tespect get thro out. the- window Gike-a-be
bottle” or trash bag; apparently)’ when Friday might rolls

Che Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors

é Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
: News Editors

’ YK Alissa Curran & Chris Moore
; Perspectives Editors
f- “Laura, Man Oudenaren & Matt Petit
: Arts & Living Editors
| 7 Jerinifer Brrington & Caroline. Wood
a 4 “« Yow! Editors
~~ James Boswell & Alex Hoy
Sports Editors

Be

gees

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

ve Copy Editor _

,. Gretchen Hoffman _»

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager

Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

ie

a ee iG —

© The: Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic:
_ by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student, Pleas
4 _address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O, B

- E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu.. Our offices are located in
- Room 411 of the Alvarez, College Union.. Opinions.expressed in
© letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily refleet-t
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsanian., Subscriptions |
e€ost. $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

163

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Does my presence make you uncomfortable?

DAvID DENNIS
Guest Columnist

Last Friday night, 20 African-American, non-Davidson
students came to watch my performance at the Outpost.
Afterward, we all decided to go to one of the fraternities to
enjoy a party. On our way from the Outpost to the house, my
friends and I were bombarded with the following statements:

“Wattup Homies?”

“Hey dawgs.”

One guy even demanded that we start stepping in the mid-
dle of the street before admitting he had no clue who we
were. Another female just started rapping to us and beatbox-
ing.

When we approached the house, one member of the frater-
nity (who was not the official person to check cards) told us
that we could not enter. because he did not know who we
were.

Once I showed him and the actual door manager my
CatCard, we were allowed into the party. However, as we
walked in, the same person who did not want to let us in
repeated many times, “Don’t start any fights, dog.”

I made sure to keep an eye on my friends at the party
because they were my guests. They were completely respect-
ful, mostly keeping to themselves. When it was time for them
to leave, I walked the guys to their car and came back to the
fraternity house where two police cars were waiting.

Apparently a complaint had been made that my friends
were making people “uncomfortable.” Several officers who
had already been in the house listened to the complaints, and
did not see my guests causing any trouble.

A few other African-American Davidson students were
told to tell “their friends” to leave. I wonder why it was
assumed that the African-American guests were assumed to
be friends of other African-American Davidson students.

One of my friends was accused of rummaging through the
coats in the back of the house. I admit, I did catch him going
through the pile of jackets. How else he would be able to
retrieve his own jacket from the pile?

Throughout the night, my friends were heckled, threatened

and essentially alienated from a Davidson party. 20 young
men left Davidson Friday night and returned to their respec-
tive communities with tales of racist greetings and com-
plaints that they made the students at Davidson “uncomfort-
able.”

I know that a few Davidson professors have advocated for
the removal of some houses at Patterson Court because they
harbor racist and sexist sentiments, especially when alcohol
is involved.

Last weekend, I saw those sentiments rear their ugly
heads. I believe, though, that blaming what happened at
Patterson Court on alcohol simplifies the down-the-hill activ-
ities that only expose racist sentiments some students already
harbor.

I will concede that it is possible that people were uncom-
fortable simply because strangers were at a party in large
numbers.

However, this does not begin to excuse the racist com-
ments, accusations and admonishments not to start any
fights.

It is also important to mention that nearly every African-
American student at Davidson has had to encounter some
sort of racial insensitivity while trying to enjoy a Friday
night.

Unfortunately, when incidents of insensitivity occur on
this campus, a discussion is set up somewhere in the Union
or Chambers and a room full of people with similar opinions
generally agree about the racial insensitivity present on cam-
pus.

As a move toward more a inclusive, open discussion, I
believe that some sort of requirement should be put in place
for Patterson Court organizations to put on diversity or mul-
ticultural events at least once a semester. Members of each
house must attend their and other houses’ events.

Hopefully, with more discussions and open conversation,
terrible events like the one that happened last weekend will
not occur again.

David Dennis ’08 is an English major from Jackson, Miss.
Contact him at dadennis @ davidson.edu.

John McCain’s running mate difficult to foresee

For John McCain, choosing a
vice-presidential nominee is
uniquely significant. Because of
his age, the fitness of his running
mate is acutely important; youth
and experience become especial-
ly attractive characteristics.
Experience renders the running
mate capable while youth miti-
gates McCain's advanced age.
Based on these considerations,
» his running mate will likely have
presidential ambitions. Thus,
McCain has the opportunity to
elevate a successor to lead the

: ZACH BENNETT

Republican Party.
Some have argued that because of McCain's ideological

impurity, his nomination will damage the GOP. By running _

with a pure conservative, he might assuage some of this
opposition. McCain's critics would see that after he either
loses the election or retires from office, the vice-presidential
nominee would restore Republican purity.

While he must appeal to conservatives, he must not alien-
ate the moderates and independents who have a preexisting
affinity for him.

Even if McCain chooses a pure conservative as his running
mate, he could not rely upon Karl Rove's strategy of energiz-
ing the base and ignoring the center.

Mitt Romney's endorsement of McCain fueled speculation
that the latter would would choose the former as a running
mate. Though McCain disdains his former competitor, lack
of amity did not prevent Kennedy from choosing Johnson,
Reagan from choosing Bush, or Clinton from choosing Gore.
For McCain, however, politics is personal. His contempt,
compounded by the availability of more authentic conserva-
tives, diminishes Romney's prospects.

Mike Huckabee is not among these authentic conserva-
tives. While he enjoys support from evangelicals, he invites
opposition from economic conservatives who fear his pop-
ulism.

Furthermore, continuing a futile campaign has not
endeared Huckabee to McCain, who wants to unite the GOP.
Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback, a McCain supporter, would
equally satisfy social and fiscal conservatives. Yet, his out-
spoken social conservatism would likely alienate moderates

and independents.

Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, who endorsed McCain
early on, has often been mentioned as a potential running
mate. He would add youth and executive experience to the
ticket.

Pawlenty recently undermined his appeal to conservatives,
however, by supporting the Senate's economic stimulus
package. Although choosing a native son might improve
Republican prospects in a newly competitive Minnesota,
polling suggests this is not the case.

Both socially and fiscally conservative, South Carolina
Gov. Mark Sanford would help McCain among the base and
in the South. Like Pawlenty, he has youth and executive
experience. Though a purer conservative than McCain,
Sanford has made his reputation as a maverick spending
hawk. Thus, McCain and Sanford are kindred spirits, even
though Sanford did not endorse McCain in 2008 as he had in
2000.

Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, whose endorsement may have
enabled McCain to win the Florida Primary, has also been
mentioned. Yet Crist’s liabilities outweigh his loyalty and
youth: he has been governor for only a year and is a moder-
ate who would not rally conservatives.

Pennsylvania Gov. and former Secretary of Homeland
Security Tom Ridge would complement McCain as a prag-
matic conservative.

Though not an ideologue, Ridge would likely satisfy most
Republicans while appealing to independents. Though Ridge
is pro-choice, he supports limits like the partial-birth abor-
tion ban. His national security and executive experience
would render him fit for the vice presidency. Very popular in
Pennsylvania, he could secure that swing state for the
Republicans.

Others with marginal chances at the vice presidency
include Sens. Joe Lieberman (Conn.), Richard Burr (N.C.),
Lindsey Graham (S.C.) and John Thune (S.D.), and
Congressman Mike Pence (Ind.).

With the nomination all but won, McCain faces the chal-
lenge of uniting conservatives without alienating moderates
as well as the opportunity to chart the course for the
Republican Party in selecting his running mate. He should
seize that chance with prudence.

Zach Bennett ’11 is a Political Science: major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@ davidson.edu.
