2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Last Sunday, a discussion called “Courting

Homophobia: Is there gay life on Patterson:

Court?” was held to address the problems
homosexual students at Davidson encounter
with regard to joining fraternities and eating
houses or attending parties on Patterson
Court.

The discussion was put on by the Patterson
Court Council (PCC) and facilitated by
Duncan Bowling °09, a Health Advisor. The
discussion was conducted by a panel of stu-
dents from a variety of Patterson Court
organizations.

On the panel were Paul! Stroup ’09, PCC
President and Kappa Sigma member; Blake
Poole ’08, Sigma Phi Epsilon member;
Duane Gregg '08, Phi Delta Theta member,
Coleman Hubbard ’09, Kappa Alpha mem-
ber; Charley Grant ’08, Pi Kappa Alpha
membef, Anne Stevens ’09, Rusk House
President; and Elaine Hargrove *09, Turner
House member.

The dialogue began with students coming
to agreement that there is a growing popula-
tion of gay students on Davidson’s campus.
One of the first questions raised was how to
make gay students feel welcome as_a part of
fraternities and eating houses.

One student claimed that even if a homo-
sexual student were to make it through the
rush and initiation processes, the way that
fraternities are set up, it only takes a few
people to deny acceptance to a pledge..

Cameron Barr ’09 claimed that many
homosexual students are instantly turned off
to the possibility of joining a fraternity due
to the unwelcoming “macho man” environ-
ment of many frats. “Beating my chest,
drinking beer, and talking about all the girls

NEws
Students address homophobia and the Court

en: Blinor

Georgia Ringle addresses the issue of homosexuality c on Patterson Court with stu-
dents at the “Courting Homophobia” discussion

1 hooked up with this weekend isn’t a situa-
tion I think that many gay students would
feel comfortable in,” he said.

Another question posed was the topic of
gay individuals feeling comfortable taking a
same-sex date to a Court party. The group
went on to discuss how they feel it is more
socially acceptable for two women to make-
out on the Court than it is for two men.

Some possible solutions that were tossed
around included making each eating housee
and fraternity create and sign a declaration
that maintains that they will be open to all

‘Take Back the Night’ provides
emotional outlet for community

By_ ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

There are students walking around campus
carrying the burden of rape or sexual assault.
These students are searching for a release of
this weight, and the Take Back the Night
rally last Wednesday provided this opportu-
nity.

Held in the Lilly Family Gallery, this rally
was a chance for first- and second-hand vic-
tims of rape and sexual assault to share their
stories to a sympathetic, caring audience.

Take Back the Night is a national move-
ment meant to empower victims to regain
control over the crime against them by ver-
balizing their experience and sharing it with
others.

Take Back the Night rallies occur all over
the country in the form of candlelight vigils,
marches or, like at Davidson, survivor testi-
monials. The movement places a great
emphasis on the healing power of speaking
and sharing.

‘It’s amazing what can
happen when people
get together and talk

and share and release.”

-Georgia Ringle

The Davidson rally began with a walk
around campus.

The group left a trail of carnations as a
physical representation of the power and
beauty of the meeting.

Back in the Lilly Family Gallery, an open-
microphone session began. Many students

came forward to share (some for the first
time) their experiences with rape or sexual
assault.

Davidson’s Health Advisor Georgia
Ringle sees these rallies as both a powerful
and an effective way to release some of the
victims’ burdens.

“It is often easier to find your voice in
front of a sympathetic crowd,” Ringle said.
“Jt’s amazing what can happen when people
get together and talk and share and release.”

“People tell me each year that they feel so
much better, feel so much more empowered
after sharing their experiences at these ral-
lies,” Ringle said. “Telling your most inti-
mate things helps release yourself from
being a victim.”

These rallies are especially important on
college campuses. “We don’t live in a bub-
ble,” Ringle said.

“We need to know that there is sexual
assault and rape on our campus. But it’s also
important to stop pretending that we are all
perfect people and understand that for vic-
tims this burden is a significant part of who
they are. It starts to shape their lives and rela-
tionships, and without help, can overwhelm
them.”

Davidson has many resources for helping
both first- and second-hand victims of sexu-
al crimes.

First Responders is a campus organization
dedicated to the 24-hour support of victims,
but Ringle emphasizes that nearly all college
officials, from professors to health advisors
to campus police, are eager to talk with stu-
dents about their experiences. She encour-
ages victims to speak with anyone they trust
because talking is the only way to begin
healing.

“The worst thing for a victim to do is not
to seek help,” Ringle said.

groups of people regardless of race, sexual
orientation, etc.

Students also argued that students should
take it upon themselves to stop friends from
using slanderous words or actions that may
be unwelcoming and offensive to homosexu-
al peers.

To finish the segment on a more positive
and hopeful note, Charley Grant ’08 said that
he “came out of the closet” in September
while already an active member of PiKA. He
claimed that except for one incident he has
received nothing but support from his broth-

_ corsideration. es
_ The. exposure brought to Davidson
{lege from our men’s basketball team is
__ simply priceless,” » said Chris.Gruberr, Vice?
_ President of Admissions and Financial Aid.
‘He added, ‘ALet us not forget that one

: national liberal arts 5 college i in the country:

“chris Gruber

cants “the “Thursday, S

in the Sweet Sixteen, Davidson had little to:
no opportunityto shorten the list of accept

“fell on the. day. of the Georgetown. game

the College was closed on Monday, effec-_- Presidents Bush and Clinton as other pos
“tively making a change i in decisions almost :

impossible, °

Yield, from page T

years ago,” - Davidson. became the first

: packaging with the ‘Success, “of this team, « students,. George - Mason. does’ not. offer
: and | athe: eo sacademic papenience. “of much. of an. indication as to what it Davidson

- Indianapolis. ‘metropolis and houses around.
61% of students on campus, including al
ffeshmen, ‘sophomores and juniors./

_ Friday’s.game. against. Wisconsin. se ons we had higher levels of interest
vin Butler as judged by campus visits and.

students, which had been locked at least
-week.in advance. Also because: Easter

sible. explanations

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

ers.

“Until this year, there was one male who
could say he was the only openly gay mem-
ber of fraternity,” Bowling said.

“Now, that’s definitely not the case as
many fraternity members have come out to
their houses. Clearly, gay students are

“Clearly, gay students
are becoming more
comfortable as a part
of Patterson Court,
but the discussion
can't stop until being
gay on the Court
becomes a non-
issue.”

-Duncan Bowling

becoming more comfortable as a part of
Patterson Court, but the discussion can’t stop
until being gay on the Court becomes a non-
issue.”

While it is unclear as to whether or not
many of these issues were definitively
resolved at ths discussion, once thing is
clear, questions were certainly raised.
Students left the event with a broader under-
standing of struggles faced by their fellow
peers.

This discussion, “Courting Homophobia:
Is there gay life on Patterson Court?” came
to close with a resounding “Yes, and what
can we do to support others?”

Oe

a » The following 1 fall, George M Mason saw a.

Fresidentvfor Enrollment. Developmen

pus and is quickly moving to'7,000, and )
“campus students saw a huge. surge: in ene

Davidson in terms of sizes eA private school
of roughly. 3600, Butler is: ‘situated in the

In both 2003 and 2006; Butler’s: mi
major, basketball program vaulted into the

Courtney Tuell, Butler’s Director. of.
Public Relations, hesitates. to cite baske
bail as the sole or even foremost reason for

the number of applications,” Tuell said...
<° She listed a new residential apartmen
village, the “celebration of the school’s

sesquicentennial and visits by. forme

He

“As. for Davidson, the “upcoming week

Several other colleges. ‘and. universities y will gradually dispel the mystery. of the
have also faced potential yield increases in 2012 class. The official deadline nation _
the past, including Butler University and _wide for freshmen deposits, known as thi
s George. Mason University. ‘ ~~ National Candidate Reply Date, is May |
» George Mason recently made a splash i in © after which Davidson may utilize: its. wait”
the NCAA tournament in 2006, when their. ;% Hist, if necessary, za 4

