10 THE DavipsoniAN

f

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 17, 2008

’Cats win in final seconds Hockey drops two

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The ’Cats trailed 16-13 with less than a minute to play,
but Justin Williams ’11 scored on a one-yard touchdown. run
with 18 seconds left against Lenoir-Rhyne to lift the Wildcats
to a dramatic 20-16 victory.

“We found a way to win this week by making plays when
we had to,” quarterback Ryan Alexander ’09 said.

Alexander ’09 led Davidson with 218 yards passing and
a touchdown, including 54 yards passing on the final drive.
Kirk Konert ’09 added 100 yards on six receptions while Kirk
Benedict ’10 led the Wildcat ground game with 42 yards on
Six Carries.

Daniel Hauffe ’10 again led the Wildcat defense with
13 tackles (four for a loss). Hauffe’s performance earned
him Pioneer Football League Defensive Player of the Week
honors. Brandon Yeargan *11 recovered two fumbles and
forced another while Williams also contributed a 40-yard
punt return on special teams.

“This was a huge win for us,” Yeargan added.

Davidson needed a victory to avoid an 0-2 start heading

into conference play and to erase the bad taste of a season-
opening defeat against UNC-Pembroke. The team is now
1-1.

The Wildcat defense dominated in the first quarter,
refusing to allow the Bears a first down and giving the offense
prime field position when Yeargan forced and recovered a
fumble on the Lenoir-Rhyne 17.

Ryan Alexander ’09 passed for 218 yards and a touch-
down in the ’Cats 20-16 victory at Lenoir-Rhyne.

Football Field Hockey
(1-1) (2-4)
Results: Results:
9/13 @ Lenoir-Ryhne W 20-16 9/12 @ Longwood L 2-5

9/13 vs. Towson L 0-3
Next Up:
9/27 vs. Jacksonville Next Up:

9/20 vs. Longwood
Notes: The Wildcats have a bye 9/21 vs. Wake Forest
week before hosting PFL foe
Jacksonville in the Homecom-

ing game on September 27th.

Notes: After dropping two
games in Virginia, the ’Cats

return home for a rematch with goal and an assist in Saturday’s

Longwood and a non-confer-
ence match with Wake Forest.

Alexander found Konert for a 13-yard touchdown on the
final play of the quarter to give the ’Cats the early lead.

The Wildcats led 7-0 at the half, but found themselves
down 10-7 entering the fourth quarter after the Bears switched
to a no-huddle offense. Kenny Mantuo scored on a one-yard
plunge that gave Davidson a 13-10 lead after the extra point
was blocked with 12:10 remaining in the game.

Lenoir-Rhyne answered with Andrew Courman’s seven-
yard touchdown run with 3:53 remaining, but the Bears.also
failed to convert the extra point, setting the stage for the
heroics of Alexander and Williams.

Alexander hit wide receiver Mark Hanabury °11 for
16 yards on fourth-and-six to keep the drive alive before a
Bears pass interference penalty gave Davidson the ball on the
Lenoir-Rhyne two-yard line.

Three plays later, Williams scored the winning touchdown.
Williams was initially stopped, but bounced it outside and
outraced the defense to the pylon.

Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt had planned to throw on third
down, but “our guys said no way. They said if we run the ball,
we’ll score and that’s what we did.”

Peter Bakke ’10 intercepted a Bears pass immediately
following Williams’ score to ice the victory.

“The last drive was great for our confidence, Alexander
said, “We only needed a field goal to tie, but we drove 80 yards
in less than four minutes for a touchdown. I don’t think the
coaches wanted to see the game go to overtime either. They
put us in a position to win and our players got it done.”

Merritt concurred, saying that he wanted to win the
game in regulation and not leave anything to chance in
overtime.

Although Lenoir-Rhyne picked up 206 yards on the
ground, Davidson still held them well below their average of
330 yards per game mishing. The Wildcats also held the Bears
to 5-16 passing with three interceptions.

Merritt said that the Wildcats will spend their bye week
working on special teams and fundamentals. Although there
are always things that could be improved, Merritt says he is
happy with where his team is at this point in the season.

The Wildcats hope to get a little more production from
their ground game, but Merritt was quick to point out that a
big factor in the lack of production this week was the fact the
Lenoir-Rhyne had eight defenders in the box for most of the
game.

Davidson will now have a bye week before opening league
play with their Homecoming Game against Jacksonnville.

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team travelled four hours north
to Longwood University’s campus in Farmville, Virginia,
where they battled the Longwood Lancers and the Towson
Tigers last weekend.

The Wildcats lost to Longwood University 5-2 Friday
evening. The Lancers were their first NorPac Conference
opponent of the season. The goals for the Wildcats were
scored by mid-fielders Kathelijn van der Ven °12 and Krista
Jackson ’12. Van der Ven.was the NorPac Rookie of the week
last week and Friday she scored her second career goal. She
also leads the team with six point this year. Jackson’s goal
was her first and came in her first action of the year. Goalie
Christa Goeke ’10 recorded three saves in the valiant effort.

The ’Cats displayed great toughness after the Lancers
scored the first goal of the game as they responded with a goal
of their own. Even upon defeat the team showed character and
was determined to stay in the game and come from behind.
The loss snapped a two-game winning streak and dropped
Davidson’s record to 2-3.

On Saturday, the Wildcats took on an undefeated non-
conference opponent in the Towson Tigers. Davidson was
shut out in this game 3-0, although the score is misleading.
The ’Cats played a better game against Towson than they did
against Longwood. Steph Meador ’12 was assigned with the
task of marking Towson star Christina Boarman and was able
to shut her down.

Davidson played a tough game and an especially good first
half. Goeke performed amazingly and tried her best to keep
the game close. She recorded a season-high ten saves. Towson
had 19 shots on goal and 14 penalty corners to Davidson’s ten
shots and six penalty corners. After a scoreless 34 minutes,
the Tigers scored three unanswered goals, putting the game
out of reach for the Wildcats.

Even in the defeat, many players for the Wildcats had
great performances. On the offensive side of the field, van
der Ven and forward Gray Robinson ’12 shared the team lead
with three shots each. Midfielder Clare Perry 711 had two
shots on goal to keep the pressure on the Tigers. The Towson
Tigers improved to 5-0 while the Wildcats fell to 2-4 with
the tough loss. When asked about the weekend’s performance
Meador proclaimed, “We worked hard but in the end it did
not payoff.” The Wildcats have a home rematch against the
Longwood Lancers this Saturday at | p.m. The Wildcats will
also play on Sunday against the Wake Forest Demon Deacons
at 3 p.m. at home.

Yanks’ formula for failure

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Take a look at the Major League Baseball standings.
You'll find an American League East Division that seems
turned upside down. At the top sit the small-market Tampa
Bay Rays, followed closely by the Boston Red Sox. Next has
to be the Yankees, right?

Wrong, the Yankees have slipped all the way to fourth
place, with the Toronto Blue Jays climbing into third.

The Yankees, with a payroll surpassing 200 million
dollars, are on the verge of missing the playoffs for the first
time in over a decade. Their demise, though, began several
seasons ago, when the free-spending front office lost its
direction in free agency.

They have mapped out the formula for failure: how to

Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer

(1-5-0) (2-1-3)
Results: Results
9/13 vs. High Point L 2-3 9/12 @ Harvard L 1-2
9/16 @ #21 Duke L0-2 9/14 @ Providence PPD
Next Up: Next Up:
Charlotte Tournament 9/21 vs. UNCW
9/19 vs. UAB

9/21 vs. Wintrhop Notes: Stephanie Gerow 712

scored her second goal of the

season, but the ’Cats lost their
first game of season 2-1 at

Harvard.

Notes: Alex Caskey *11 had a

3-2 loss to High Point.

turn a 200 million dollar payroll into a middle-of-the-pack
ball club.

With limitless financial resources, their own television
network, and the allure of New York City life, it seems as
though the Yankees have little excuse for this season’s
disappointment: Sure, the team has had a run of bad luck,
with ace pitcher Chien-Ming Wang going out for the season
in the midst of a myriad of other injuries. With its talent and
money, New York still should have been able to withstand
these issues.

New York’s front office caused this season’s failures when
they abandoned their policy of putting the best talent on the
roster, regardless of the cost — both athletic and monetary.

After a tremendous run that culminated in their latest.
World Series victory in 2000, the Yankees began spending

See Failure, page 1]

Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
3-6) Cross Country
Results

9/12 vs. Charlotte W 3-2
9/13 vs. George Mason L 1-3
9/13 vs. Rutgers W 3-0

Next Up:
9/20 Winthrop Invitaional

Notes:

After a week off, the teams return
to the course this week at the
Wintrhop Invitational in South
Carolina.

Next Up:
9/19 vs. St. Francis
9/20 vs. High Point
9/20 @ Univeristy at Buffalo

Notes: The ’Cats opened their

home schedule schedule with

two wins in the Mizuno Classic

at Belk Arena.
