14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

The last basketball article o

¥ Patrick MCARDLE
» Sports Editor 2,

if

Zé

ard to grasp the end of basketball coverage in thi
» phenomenal. basketball year.:The avalanche, of
news media surrounding the. Wildcats since the
beginning of the fall and’through the tournamen

Announcers from across America have (mis)pro
| nounced the name Stephen Curry with excitement
_ awe and admiration.’ And now it is; for the mos
_ part, done, and the offseason has begun.» *
_ So | will try to provide a few thoughts for the é
_ offseason. It might not be enough to satisfy over:
_ the spring and summer, but what really could fil
that void? ©. 2
First, let’s talk about this year ’s Final Four an
Championship Game, if only for a sense of clo-=
_ sure. The last two rounds of the NCAA (just like
. the first four) painted Davidson in the best possi
ble light. Kansas, the team that barely escaped

Final Four. And then they went on to defeat
freakishly athletic Memphis team in the champi
= onship game.” oe
It should be self-evident why this turn of event
was good. for our: school.. Kansas could no
embarass us; instead of finding themselves up by
20 point cushion. like they did against the Tar
Heels, Kansas (as we all saw) found themselves a
hot.away from an early exit against the Wildcats

‘As far’ as any. objective’ viewer could see
Davidson was a more competitive tournament”
team than UNC {or the long-since forgotten Blue.
Devils) this year. If before the season anyone had:
» said, “Davidson will outplay UNC and Duke in th
tournament;”you would not have been taken seri
_ ously by anyone,” Now it’s a reality2,"”
Unfortunately for everyone, the season is fin
= ished. There are, however; a few important thing
- Davidson needs to remember this offseason i
order to honor this spectacular season.
The first is keeping Bob McKillop no matter the

cost. Deserving winner of many coaching awards
_ this season (see the article on this page), Davidson
needs to. make sure Coach McKillop stays in thi
_ community. While usually I wouldn’t advocate big
paydays. for coaches when the money could bi
spent. elsewhere, it-is more than necessary in. thi
special case. Bob McKillop’s leadership is largely
tesponsible for the class, enthusiasm and polish o
the Wildcat team this season. Everytime Jason. 0
_ Thomas would be” .interviewed,’ their , smart:
ISWETS reflected the experience and class of their
ach. None of the magic this year has provided:
would have been possible without Bob McKillop, -
Therefore, we. should not be stingy with a Coach

a

Baseball
(8-19, 1-8)

Track and Field

Bob McKillop rakes in honors

ip a Lei

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

On Sunday night, Davidson men’s basketball coach Bob
McKillop received The UPS Store/National Association of
Basketball Coaches (NABC) Coach of the Year at the
AT&T/NABC Guardians of the Game awards show at the site of
the Final Four in San Antonio.

On Monday, McKillop was also honored as the recipient of
the Coach Clair Bee Award which is awarded to a Division I
men’s basketball coach, who through his actions on and off the
court, makes and outstanding contribution to the sport of basket-
ball.

The criteria for the Clair Bee Coach of the Year Award
involves actions that inspire, motivate, coach and educate teams
to achieve their fullest potential and demonstrate outstanding
character, which McKillop certainly did this season in leading
Davidson to one of its best seasons in school history.

The awards come one week after McKillop led Davidson on
its magical run to the Elite Eight in Detroit. They fell to eventu-
al National Champion Kansas 59-57 in the regional final.
McKillop led the ’Cats to their first regional final appearance
since Left Driesell led Davidson to the regional final in 1969.

Under McKillop’s guidance the Wildcats have made five
NCAA tournament appearances including three consecutive
appearances from 2006-2008. This season he led the ’Cats to a
29-7 record, including a national-best 25-game winning streak.
Davidson is 58-12 in the last two seasons under McKillop.

McKillop has turned Davidson into a dominant force in the
conference as they have finished either first or second in their
SoCon Division 12 out of the last 13 seasons. The ’Cats perfect
20-0 Southern conference record was part of an undefeated
SoCon regular season, Mckillop’s third:.

Davidson’s dominance has been magnified the past two sea-
sons as they currently sport a 30-game regular season confer-
ence winning streak.

Sports pundits continue to speculate over whether McKillop
will move to high profile jobs like the coaching position at
Marquette, but he has shown no interest in leaving Davidson for
other opportunities.

Bob McKillop led the Wildcats to the Elite Eight for the
first time since 1969 before losing at the buzzer to KU

These honors come in addition to the SoCon Coach of the
Year Award McKillop received a month ago. He has been named
Southern Conference Coach of the Year seven times and the
Wildcats have had seven 20-win seasons and earned seven post-
season bids in McKillop’s time at Davidson. McKillop will
begin his 20th season at the helm next year and has put togeth-
er a 340-225 record during his tenure.

Lacrosse approaches historic streak

By ANNE STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team easily defeated Pfeiffer University by a
score of 17-3 last Wednesday and beat Presbyterian 19-5 on
Tuesday evening to tie a school record for most wins in a single
season. The victories for the Cats brings their record to 9-3.

Leading on the attacking front against Pfeiffer was Emily
Palmer 08, who scored four goals to tie her career-high mark.
Emily Deifendorf ’08 and Haley Cook °10 added three goals
apiece to add to the scoring frenzy. Right on their tails, Jen
Crawford °10, Becky Horton ’09 and Sarah Walter ’08 all
snagged two goals a piece. Danielle Ruggieri ’11 scored her first
collegiate goal, bringing the Wildcat’s total to 17.

On the defensive side, the "Cats were equally as tough. Cook
caused three turnovers and collected two groundballs. Jennifer
Drew Lindsey ’09 grabbed five groundballs on five caused
turnovers. In goal, Laura Johnson ’08 and Michelle Pav 710
stopped nine shots for the game.

The game against Presbyterian on Tuesday night against
Presbyterian was an even more lopsided affair. Davidson took a
5-0 lead to open the game and never slowed down, eventually
stretching the lead to 14.

Walter, Deifendorf and McDonald led the seniors with three
goals apiece, while juniors Crawford and Horton also secured
hat-tricks on the evening.

Johnson improved her record to 9-3 in goal, while Pav added
three saves of her own to the effort.

The lacrosse team will try t to keep up its impressive winning

Women’s Lacrosse
(9-3)

4/5 Murray Neely Invitational

4/2 at #7 South Carolina Lost 2-9
4/5 at WCU Lost 7-22, 8-10
4/6 at WCU Lost 4-8
4/8 at Va Tech

Next Up:
4/11-4/13 at The Citadel -
4/15 vs. Wake Forest

(Greensboro, N.C.)

4/2 vs. Pfeiffer Won 17-3
4/8 vs. Presbyterian

Next Up:
4/12 Tony Waldrop Invitational
(Chapel Hill, N.C.)

Next Up:
4/11 at Cincinnati
4/13 at Ohio State

Notes: Will Funderburg ’09 and Beaux
Jones ’08 each won their respective
events at the Murray Neely Invitational

Notes: The Wildcats head to Ohio for
a pair of games this weekend. They

Men’s Tennis

4/2 at #75 Elon Lost 1-6
4/5 vs. S.C. State Won 6-1
4/6 at ECU Won 4-3

4/11 at Appalachian State
4/12 vs. #65 Furman

ways against Cincinatti on April 11 to begin a three-game road-
trip.

Michelle Pav ’10 shares goalkeeping duty with Lauren
Johnson ’08, making three saves against Presbyterian

Women’ s Tennis

(14-5, 5-2) (15-4, 6-1)
4/2 at Elon Won 5-2
4/3 vs. UNCG Won 6-1

4/5 vs. Boston University Won 4-3

4/8 at Charlotte
Next Up:

Next Up:

4/11 vs. Wofford
4/12 vs. Furman

Notes: The ’Cats can clinch a third-

Notes: Shortstop Zach Kayne ’09 leads hosted by N.C. A&T. Funderburg took _ will look to extend their streak to six place SoCon finish with a victory over Notes: The Wildcats can grab at least a

the ’Cats with a .469 batting average in first in the shot put while Jones finished
atop the field in the javelin.

SoCon play.

when they take on Cincinnati on
Friday night.

App State. They conclude the regular
season Saturday against Furman.

share of the SoCon regular season title
with victories over Wofford and Furman.
