e

oo Ali,

President Tom Ross addresses students and faculty at the Rally for Change

Walcott, from page 1

“You have to be valid for the audience you
write for,” he said, suggesting that his work
must necessarily reflect his readership.

During the question-and-answer period,
one student asked how Walcott maintains his
creativity after a lifetime of writing. Walcott
responded that he is always kept on his toes
by the various arenas of art and literature in
which he is involved.

Walcott finds that painting, plays, poetry,
short fiction and novels all offer different,
enjoyable outlets for expression.

Another student asked if the varied forms
Walcott uses for his writing interact with one
another, or if he tries to keep them separate.

Walcott said that when he begins writing a
piece of literature, he doesn’t know what
type of literature it will end up being. He
believes this ambiguity is the beauty of liter-
ature.

“T’ve arrived at a point in my writing in

an

e

3/10/2008 7:42 a.m.

Car Damaged, Tree Unharmed

which I don’t know whether it'll be a poem
or a play,” Walcott said. “It’s a blessed
thing.”

Walcott is interested in how a writer grows
and develops his writing without knowing
where it will lead.

‘T’ve arrived at a point in
my writing in which I don’t
know whether it’ll be a
poem or a play.”

-Derek Walcott

“Between his low raspy voice, sometimes
dry sense of humor, and old age, Walcott
may not have given the most exciting recita-
tion of poetry, but I soon realized that his
poems had a voice of their own,” the student
said. “Once I really became intent on actual-
ly listening to what he was saying, I was
mesmerized.”

“pe Perey oe yyy se

Davidson

On Monday, March 10, an officer was contacted via the officer cell phone by a
Physical Plant employee informing that a tree had fatlen on a vehicle located behind
Concord Road. The officer was advised that pictures had been taken. It appeared that
the strong winds from the storm made the tree fall on the vehicle, a Toyota Camry. The
officer noticed a minimal amount of damage to the car trunk and rear bumper. The
vehicle was not struck by the massive trunk of the tree, but by its limbs. No one was

in the vehicle at the time of the incident.

3/13/2008 10:07 a.m.

a Oe eee -

3/17/08 6:10 p.m.

Lack of Available Computers

Walking on Broken Glass

207 Faculty Dr.

On Thursday, March 13, an officer met with an employee of Career Services to dis-
cuss what the employee believed was unauthorized use of her desktop computer. The
faculty member stated that within the last month, she has noticed numerous oddities
occurring within her office after she leaves in the afternoon. The faculty member stat-
ed that approximately three weeks ago, a small square clock disappeared from an
office table, and that someone went onto her computer and used the website
Dump.com, which is known to be used for pornography.

200 Baker Dr.

On Monday, March 17, an officer was dispatched to a vehicle break-in located in
Baker Sports parking lot. Upon arrival, the officer noticed broken glass near the dri-
ver’s side window from a Mini Cooper. The officer was later met by the driver of the
vehicle. The owner stated that as she was entering her vehicle she was in possession
of an empty glass jug, approximately one gallon in size, and hit the window with it,
which shattered the glass of the window. The officer cleaned out the driver’s compart-
ment as thoroughly as possible and used cardboard and tape to cover the window

opening. No further action was required.

_

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

Rally, from page 1

versus white or male versus female deal. It is
a microcosm of a greater situation.”

“Rally for Change” is aptly named
because it seeks not only to champion diver-
sity in all forms, but also to advocate change
in people’s attitudes toward respecting, not
just tolerating, diversity.

Last Thursday, over 200 students, faculty
and community members gathered outside in
the Union Ampitheatre to discuss the fears
underlying diversity and listen to speakers.

In addition to Dennis, they included
Davidson Chaplain Rob Spach; Mike
Parsons ‘08, former President of Sigma Phi
Epsilon fraternity and representative of

We are where we are today
because of previous genera-
tions being angry about.
something and speaking up
about it.

-President Tom Ross

Patterson Court; current and incoming stu-
dent body presidents Burton and Davis
Greene ‘09; and President Tom Ross.

Many of the participants wore the event’s
sponsored shirts featuring the quote: “Do I
Make You Uncomfortable?”—a phrase
intended to promote discussion about the
fears of diversity and resulting discrimina-
tion by probing questions.

Spach emphasized the commitment to
diversity in Davidson’s published statement
of purpose while Parsons discussed “white
guilt” and “white silence,” the belief that
white people have no right to talk about race,
and how those ideas do not help the commu-
nity grow but perpetuate a cycle of miscon-
ception and fear.

Burton and Greene stressed the healing

qualities of these discussions for the commu-
nity.

By making them permanent issues on
campus, these programs should help bring
students together and make the community
stronger, they said.

Ross said discussions about the fears and
values of diversity ultimately help us learn
something about ourselves.

“Although these discussions are often-
times tiresome,” he said, “if we care about
each other and the community, we will per-
severe so that we can learn about ourselves
and each other and develop a greater respect
and acceptance.”

After the formal speeches, the forum
opened up for discussion. Comments came
from both students and faculty and ranged
from the extent of diversity to personal iden-
tities.

Several students pointed out that each per-
son is different not just because of race or
sexual orientation but also because of their
different interests and beliefs.

We are all human beings, said one senior
student, and there is more to each of us than
any term, such as “black,” “white,” “ath-
lete;?’ “Christian,” could encapsulate.

“We need to speak up,” he continued. “We
are where we are today because of previous
generations being angry about something
and speaking up about it. This generation
doesn’t do that, but this [the Rally for
Change] is a great example.”

Overall, the rally stressed the importance
of continued discussion on diversity so that
the fears and misconceptions could be better
understood and eventually overcome.

Although speakers acknowledged that the
event would not end the issue, participants
seemed determined to make things better and
develop a stronger and more open communi-
ty that would make everyone feel welcome.

The rally ended on a high note with great
excitement for the improved, stronger
Davidson that the future may hold.
