THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OctosBeEr 29, 2008

Diwali celebration comes to Davidson

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

Pll admit it: the only aspects I had pre-
viously known about Diwali stemmed from
Kelly Kapoor and Dwight Schrute on The
Office, season three, disc one.

But this past Sunday night, my cultural
awareness strengthened as holiday lights and
saris adorned the 900 Room, welcoming Di-
wali, the Hindu Festival of Lights.

Sponsored by the Asian Cultural Aware-
ness Association, Interfaith and the Curry
Club, this significant Indian Festival brought
both the social closeness and the natural light
both closely associated with this holiday.

After being welcomed and invited to
share in receiving a bindi, or the red oma-
mental dot on the foreheads of South Asian
women, the ceremony began.

“Diwali” literally stems from the transla-
tion of “row of lamps” and the lights of Di-
wali have come to signify good luck as well
as good triumphing over evil.

Diwali commemorates the Good King
Rama’s defeat over Ravana, the evil king of
demons.

After this epic battle, King Rama was
sent into exile for fourteen years, after which
he was welcomed back into his kingdom Ay-
odhya.

As the townspeople rejoiced in his return,
they lit small oil lamps in his honor and to
ward off any demons of misfortune, an honor
still practiced today.

“Back home during Diwali, all the hous-
es are lit up too with the diyas, which are like
cotton balls dipped in oil, set on clay pots and
lit,” said Jenny Vaidya ’11. “The lights show
the gods into homes.”

The platform normally used for Live
Thursday gigs was dotted with flowers and
small candles in our celebration of this an-
cient holiday.

After the narration, Shamita Punjabi °12

chanted traditional prayer rituals to the Ga-.

nesh, the elephant god of wisdom and good
luck, and Hanuman, the monkey god of
strength and devotion. The second prayer,

chanted completely from memory and de-
picting the devotion of Lord Hanuman’s de-
votion to Rama, lasted around five minutes
and created a beautiful atmosphere of tradi-
tional Indian culture.

“My mother taught me that chant when
I was little,” said Shamita. “My language is
called Sindhi, which is a little different from
the language of Hindi. Still, the fact that I
know what the chant is talking about really
means a lot to me.”

_ Continuing with the ritualistic celebra-
tion of Diwali, two Indian priests honored the
stage with a traditional puja, a ritual showing
respect to the gods.

The preparation of such a ritual involves
all-natural materials, such as rice, clean wa-
ter, sugar and the only fabric created by God,
cotton. This preparation teaches patience and
tolerance in the time it takes.

is an important Hindu traditon.

A young boy celebrates Diwali by lighting candles. The holiday celebrates light and

= ae

These pujas traditionally honor the god-
dess of wealth and good fortune, Maha Lak-
shmi. Light, of course, is a main ingredient
in such an important ritual, which signifies
knowledge and “evokes the spiritual identi-
ty,” the priests noted during the preparation.
“It’s an eternal joy,” they said.

After the sacred offerings, prayers and
acceptance of God into their hearts, the at-
tendees ate and enjoyed performances.

This year, Davidson welcomed three
members of the Maha Gingrich Dance
Troupe. Adorned in elaborate, traditional cos-
tumes that took over three hours to prepare,
the troupe performed three special pieces for
the audience.

Each dance was between two and three-
thousand years old and sought the blessings

See Diwali, page 6

1
i

Opera workshop educates, informs

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Let’s eradicate a few myths about opera.
First, it is not just for the elite. Contrary
to some long-held beliefs, opera is not re-

fb

ee ig a
Many students may be surprised to discover opera’s accessibility.

served exclusively for the wealthy, musically
erudite or linguistic pundits. In fact, opera
is becoming increasingly popular among
a broad spectrum of audiences, thanks to a
definite resurgent interest in the arts.

Secondly, opera is not snobby. True,

ee

‘Stereotypically

regarded as snobby, many operas are light-hearted and amusing.

when it began in Italy in the late 16th century
and gained popularity into the 19th century
and beyond, the upper classes of Europe and
Russia turned to opera as a refined form of
entertainment, and the U.S. assumed this at-
titude soon after.

In addition, operas were performed in
foreign languages such as French, Italian,
German and Russian, which would have
been understood exclusively by the natives
or those fortunate enough to have studied
languages. However, today, most operas
are translated and the librettos are projected
above the stage for audience’s comprehen-
sion.

Thirdly, opera is not boring. Despite its
reputation most likely gained from sources
such as Wagner’s dense, three-hour epic cy-
cles, there is actually quite a lot to be appreci-
ated between the sometimes bold, oftentimes
romantic recitatives and arias.

Vying to popularize opera and broaden its
appeal, large opera houses such as the Met in
New York are bringing the high C’s to HD,
where full-length operas are broadcasted
as live films in various theatres around the
country.

And in the continual quest to expose op-

era’s accessability, this fall will see David-"

son’s latest addition to its already rich art
scene with an impressive and challenging
feat: a staged opera concert.

See Opera, page 6

wIVING

Relive that
ghostly feeling

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

Halloween should be considered one of
the best holidays of the year. Pumpkins trans-
form from common gourds into illuminated
fiends. Humans also undergo a similar trans-
formation, as anyone from two-year-old girls
to 40-something CEO’s don costumes and,
for one night at least, forget their true iden-
tity. There’s also free candy, which definitely
should not be forgotten.

But like all good things, Halloween,
sadly, must come to an end. The angst-filled
teenagers smash pumpkins after removing
their costumes, which have become too tight
from all the candy bars.

But the spirit of Halloween can live on.
In fact, for many places around the world, the
scary, creepy aura of Halloween never dies.
So next week, when you crave that good old
ghoulish fun of Oct. 31, simply pack a bag
and spend the night in one of the Southeast’s
many haunted hotels.

And conveniently, all the hotels in this
article are within a day’s drive of Davidson:
three and a half hours to Charleston, three to
Chapel Hill and just two to Asheville.

Charleston, SC contains a wealth of histo-
ry, because the city’s vast historical district is
extremely well-preserved. Here, when stately
homes grace tree-lined streets, it would only
seem appropriate that history comes back to
haunt this city in numerous ways.

A quick Internet search on Charleston’s
attractions yielded listings for walking and
horse-carriage ghost tours, as well as haunt-
ed sites. The city’s ties to the slave trade and
civil war are the most frequent subjects of
supernatural tales.

The luxurious Battery Carriage House
Inn was built in 1843. The Los Angeles
Times deemed it “among the most romantic
of Charleston’s Inns.” On the Inn’s website,
one guest commented that their stay: was
“excellent...a charming experience.” Appar-
ently this guest did not encounter the famed
“gentleman ghost.”

This apparition first made himself known
to guests in 1992. He only appears to the
lucky females, hence his name, and is noto-
rious for making certain “requests.” Female
patrons should not feel threatened; if the
woman objects, the harmless “gentleman”
vanishes.

Rumor has it that the spirit is the ghost
of a Yale student, who stayed at the hotel in
the early 1900s and, for unknown reasons,
jumped off the Inn’s roof and committed sui-
cide. The Inn has ten rooms, and rates in the
winter start at $279 a night, based on double
occupancy.

Next on this haunted tour is the Carolina
Inn in Chapel Hill, N.C. Like the Carriage
House Inn, praise abounds for this spot--
AAA granted the hotel four stars. Its dining
room also boasts a prestigious Mobil Four
Star rating. This hotel should also win a four
star “haunted” award.

On the third floor of the Inn, one room in
particular has been singled out for paranor-
mal activity. Dr. William P. Jacocks, a physi-
cian, retired to Chapel Hill and lived in this
room at the inn from 1948 to 1965.

Jacocks died in his bed there, and now he
frequently returns and plays harmless pranks
on guests. His favorite trick is to lock patrons
out of their room, which he still thinks of as
his own, During one incident, Dr. Jacocks
proved so stubborn that the hotel’s staff
had to climb up a ladder and enter the room
through the window in order to unlock the

See Haunted, page 6
