10 THe DAvipsonIAN

SpPorRTS

The problem with fantasy sports |

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

I started playing fantasy football before it became a pop
culture phenomenon. The first league that I played in was not
on the Internet. We had to tabulate standings and scores our-
selves. I held the title of “fantasy junkie” for years and loved
the inclusion of fantasy sports into mainstream society. Now,
I see it differently.

As an avid sports fan, I believe that fantasy sports are tak-
ing away from the games, the joy of fandom, and the love of
sports. Many “fans” out there now have no true allegiances
except to the random assortment of players that make up their
fantasy rosters this week. It has become difficult to watch
NFL pre-game shows because a large portion of their cover-
age is devoted to fantasy performances.

I saw the light two seasons ago. The Redskins (my team)
were in the midst of a disappointing season, and my fantasy
team was on the brink of greatness. I had the prize money in
my grasp, and my favorite team became an afterthought.

“Yeah, I'd like the Redskins to win,” I remember saying,
“But what I really need is LaDainian Tomlinson to get me 16
points tonight.”

That type of statement is common in today’s sports world.
We have become so focused on the individual players that
we have lost our focus on the actual teams. I have spent the
last two years avoiding fantasy sports. I have resorted to sites
like Centsports.com, which feature a mock form of betting, to
get in my competitive fix. Still though, I find myself tending
to focus on individual players instead of their teams. It’s a
growing national problem.

We can see this even here at Davidson. While everyone
here on campus recognize the excellence of the basketball
team (as a team!), the national media focuses almost exclu-
sively on All-American Point Guard Stephen Curry ’10.

By no means does Curry seek out the attention (in fact, he
nearly always passes the credit elsewhere), and he deserves

every accolade, but he does represent a growing focus on the
individual in sports today.

While fantasy sports are the primary culprit, they were
perpetuated by a gradual decline in people identifying players
with their teams. In an age of free agency and trades, players
almost never remain with the same team for an entire career.
Even the transcendent stars of a sport, like the NFL’s Jerry
Rice, often conclude their careers in unfamiliar uniforms.

I would argue that fan loyalty is at a low point. Fantasy
sports are currently the root of the problem. Fantasy players
are often left with conflicting loyalties. Many fans watch a
game hoping that their team will win, but that the opposing
team’s star will have a great day. That simply should nev-
er happen. I am proud to say that, having given up fantasy
sports, I never cheer for a player that is playing against my
team.

Fantasy sports are not without their perks and their plus-
es. However, while an average fan may have only watched
their team play each week, fantasy players often keep track
of every game on the docket.

Furthermore, many good-natured competitions are fos-
tered through participation in fantasy leagues. Game day can
become even more exciting when you have something per-
sonal, like the cash prize for a fantasy championship, riding
on the game.

But as sports fans, we need to look at the complefe situa-
tion. Our attention should be placed squarely on the teams in
competition. Leagues like the NFL did not become immensely
popular because people became fans of one particular player.
Sure, leagues will always promote their stars, but they should
do so merely as a way of representing the teams.

Many people get tremendous enjoyment out of fantasy
participation, but sports’ traditional values are lost in the
shuffle. Sports are supposed to emphasize commitment,
teamwork, enthusiasm and sportsmanship. In many cases,
these tenets are forgotten, and fantasy sports are a primary
culprit.

Wildcats, from page 12

three pulled Davidson within 62-61 with 1:14 to play. And
after recovering a Mountaineer shot deflected by Lovedale,
he drilled another dagger from beyond NBA range off the
dribble to give the Wildcats a 64-62 lead.

Curry hit two foul shots, with Stephen Rossiter ’09 and
Bryant Barr ’10 each adding a free throw at the end to ac-
count for the final margin.

Given Davidson’s #22 national ranking the victories
were not upsets, but the wins nevertheless provide closure

to the Wildcats’ shortcomings last season against big-name
opponents. Davidson lost to three ACC schools (including
the Wolfpack) last season by a combined 11 points, and also
dropped a decision against Final Four member UCLA after
leading by 18. After falling earlier in the season against sixth-
ranked Oklahoma, the ’Cats proved Saturday and Tuesday
that they can win close games against big-name teams.

The victories moved the Wildcats’ record to 7-1. Next on
the slate for Davidson will be the Southern Conference open-
er against Chattanooga on Saturday at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

ee

“Mer excitement i translated into a dynamite p rformance}

double-doubles, the: "Cats. maintained intensity“and | pos
ssion. After ‘each Furman attempt, Lax and Robinson‘
ipponded with key shots to keep the lead alive,
4 Perhaps’ : the: ‘mostrevéaling moment. of Davidson’
ig jotional play’ car came “after a questionably ‘uncalled foul to.
Alex-Thompson 710. She had chipped her nose: over the,
"Thanksgiving games, and was obviously i in pain as the play)
iknocked ‘off her nose ‘guard, the pain was apparent,” ? Shes
igrited and boreity.racing down the court and popping 2
mothing-but-net three,The. emotional current from her.
“formance held the team on fop for the rest of the night
ia fa sak the high kept going through Saturda

wie

: ‘Charlotte | at Bell
“exam period begins. éThe 49ers jumped out to a/7/2'Jead i nh
“the opening, minutes and neyer ‘trailed in the. first half. on!
‘their, was {0 a 33625 halftime advantage.
€ DéVidson t trailed by’as many ten midway through the
econd half, but battled back tt take: ek lead with just.
“over four 1 minutes remaining,
“sponded. with #16-
92-64 Mictory/Robinson | ied the? Cats. with 14 points, ”
ag The ensuing, games ‘over the break’ will provide both,
snonconference competition and a few. jore tastes ; of the So-
‘Con schedule. The?Cats return to the court when they hos ’
{Western Carolina December 147 Highlights oyer holiday
will include a trip to. Cincinnati for games against Xavie
and Cineinnati: and SoCon | contests against. UNC-Green

for Robinson. the. games er nurture more and more?
team. “growth, in the same/fashion as the tough preseason,

pitas

(eheduletpse said of the competition, ¥ They are Eset

jonly: at the: future, but the team: “building and the sae

Hig Be #

ahh: ey

Football -Men’s Basketball Swimming/Diving Women’s Basketball Wrestling
(4-7, 3-5) #22 (7-1, 0-0) Men (1-4, 1-0) (3-6, 2-0) (1-4, 0-1)
Women (2-4, 2-0)
Results: Results: Results
11/15 vs. Butler W 46-34 12/6 vs. N.C. State W 72-67 Results 12/2 vs. Furman W 67-57 Results:
12/9 vs. West Virginia W 68-65 Nike Invitational 12/6 @ App. St. W 95-75 12/6 Davidson Open
Next Up: Men- 3rd -12/9 vs. Charlotte L 64-72
Season Complete Next Up: Women- 5th Next Up:
12/13 vs. Chattanooga Next Up: 12/19 vs. Delaware State
. : 8 P : 12/19 vs. Delaware Valley
Notes: The football team finished their 12/20 @ #14 Purdue Next Up: 12/14 vs. Western Carolina
season with a 46-34 home victory over 1/10 @ Duke

Butler on Senior Day. Ryan Alexan-

der finished his career as Davidson’s

all-time leader in passing yards and
touchdowns,

State.

Notes: Stephen Curry ’11 was named
Southern Conference Player of the Week
for the 11th time in his career following

his 44-point performance against N.C.

1/10 vs. South Carolina

Notes: The ’Cats have virtually a
month off before returning to action for
a tri-meet at Duke.

Notes: Alex Thompson ”10 earned
Southern Conference Player of the
Week honors after her 35-point out-
burst against Appalachian State led
the Wildcats to a 2-0 start in SoCon

. Notes:

Vitaly Radsky *11 won all five
matches in the 141-pound weight
division to claim his first career tour-
nament title at the Davidson Open.

play.
