THE DAVIDSONIAN

¢ yaper waste ate’a p product ofits
jcal “commitment for. the “Year

1 ase" ead Pig Pe

1 appear ‘on the screens and the stu’

othe larger tc foom is is  eatipped ast
dent conference toom, with a large
lable that. containg four lab computers

OT ge Ay ‘ger

[avideon{ecure, the witelese network of choice (or
Davidson (lege, is lvel (or slonger enctyplion,
simpler logs, and Feller securily, use

sVideon{ecur e.

|er ful] selup insltuctions, visil

wink wii dnd edu teed’

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER, 2008 3

= Halloween invasion:
_ Tigger & the Blues Brothers

This past Thursday ghosts, fairies, Tigger and even the Biues Brothers made an
appearance as children trick-or-treated at Davidson College dorms.

JEANNIE KINNETT
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the College hosted the
annual trick-or-treating event, welcoming
children of faculty and staff, as well as par-
ticipants in the Ada Jenkins After School
Program. The event was sponsored by the
Residence Life Office (RLO) and Bonner
Scholars, and also made possible by the con-
tributions of College students.

Freshmen halis decorated with spooky
decorations before opening them from 6
p.m.-8 p.m. for the young trick-or-treaters.
The decorations were part of an annual con-
test sponsored by RLO. 2nd Watts won first
place, followed by 3rd Richardson in second
and 1st Richardson in third.

For many hall counselors, the event pro-
vided a time of bonding for their halls, as stu-
dents emerged from studying and extracur-
riculars to pass out candy together.

Andy Jones’ 10, a hall counselor on Third
Belk participated in the event with his hall.
“Everybody was in the hall passing out can-
dy,” Jones said. “It grew the hall unity as well
as made the kids happy.”

“Some of these kids might
not otherwise have a Hal-
loween.”

-Kristin Booher, Director of
Bonners Scholars

The event was about far more than the
decorations though. Throughout the evening,
students not only doled out candy to the
young visitors, but also provided them with
myriad of festive activities including cookie
decorating and fortune telling.

It is important to recognize that this ap-
preciation of Halloween is often taken for
granted; the children who visit campus for
this exciting occasion may otherwise be un-
able to go trick-or-treating.

Many of the kids arrive through the Ada

Jenkins After School Program which is for
first through fifth grade students from around
town, and provides tutoring for participants,
largely from Davidson College students.

Freshmen Bonner scholars at Davidson
participate in this program and are largely
involved in coordinating and executing the
trick-or-treating event in accordance with
Ada Jenkins, including leading the children
through the halls and driving them to campus
and back.

According to Kristin Booher, Directer of
Bonner Scholars, this event is very special
for many of the children from the Ada Jen-
kins After School Program. “Some of these
kids might not otherwise have a Halloween,”
Booher said.

Though these students organize the event,
it remains the duty (and the pleasure) of their
peers to make the night full of fun and excite-
ment.

This year, many of the freshman halls
across campus began covering their lights
with orange paper to create an eerie glow,
and hung spider webs, tombstone cutouts and
pumpkins on the walls.

Kids of every age and costume style par-
ticipated: some dressed as frighteningly as
possible, others as their favorite book char-
acters. Freshman student Mary Hodgkins’
favorite part was seeing the children in their
costumes. “One little girl had a huge sheep
suit and a tail that wiggled when she walked;
it was really cute,” Hodgkins said.

Many halls ran out of candy early, under-
estimating the hoards of children that arrived.
One hall in particular possessed enthusiasm
that outlasted its candy supply; being the
problem solving Davidson students they are,
these boys handed out packaged Pop Tarts,
granola bars and popcorn from their personal
food supplies to prolong the delight of their
trick-or-treaters.

In traditional Davidson fashion, this
event cultivated relationships on its own
campus while simultaneously giving back to
its community. An enjoyable experience for
all involved, this happening should definitely
remain an eagerly anticipated annual event
for the College.
