THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Wildcat Pulse

Swimming struggles
during holiday season

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson swimming teams recently
suffered through a brutal three-meet stretch
against ACC and SEC opponents. The men
lost 166-63 to South Carolina and 146-58 to
Duke on Jan 12. and 133-93 against Clemson.
on Jan. 17 both at home. The women lost to
the same opposition by scores of 160-83,
171-72 and 130-113, respectively.

The Wildcat men were led against South
Carolina and Duke by Miller Williams ’10,
who recorded the eighth-best 200 meter but-
terfly time in school history (1:57.93) in fin-
ishing fourth. Lindsey Martin 11 recorded
victories in the 50 and !00-meter freestyle in
times of 24.02 and 52.9 seconds, respective-

‘photo courtesy of Sports Info

Anna Stringfield ’11 swam in the 1000 and
500 free

Martin is the school record-holder in both
events.

Martin again won both events against
Clemson five days later with times of 24.17
and 53.32. In addition, Courtney Sanders ’09
won the 100 meter flystroke in 59.96 and
Ineke Stegger ’11 won the 100 meter breast-
stroke in 1:08.31. The 200 meter freestyle
relay team of Sanders, Martin, Emily Castle
"11 and Jessica Delgehausen ’11 won in a
time of 1:39.9.

“Lindsey was great for us again,” coach
John Young said. “If her imagination can
approach her talent the rest of the way, she
can still surprise people at the [Coastal
Collegiate Swimming Association tourna-

-ment].”

Scott Frantz ’09 led the men by winning
the 100 meter backstroke in a time of 53.84
seconds. His performance earned Franz his
third CCSA Men’s Swimmer of the Week
recognition.

Will Broughton ’08, Nate Ladner ’10 and
Patrick Whitman ’11 finished second in the
1000 meter freestyle, 200 meter individual
medley and 50 meter freestyle, respectively.

“It is important for our program to
embrace high level competition, and
Clemson provided us with that tonight,”
Young said. “We have four weeks to finish
this season’s journey. Tonight we were better
than we were on Saturday, and we’ll expect
that at each of our remaining competitive
opportunities until the conference champi-
onship.”

The Wildcats will host their final home
meet by welcoming UNC Wilmington and
Campbell (women) to Cannon Natatorium
for a 1 p.m. meet on Jan. 26.

Summer Job Fair
January 30, 2008
Noon — 3 pm
Brown Atrium of Alvarez Union

Bain & Company (interns)

Bard Program on Gobalization and Intemational Affairs (academic/internship NY)
Calvin Center (Presbyterian Conference Center in GA)
Camp Arrowhead (boys; NC mtn)

Camp Broadstone (App State; educational; NC mtn}
Camp Burnt Gin (children with physical disabilities in SC)
Camp Cheerio (YMCA Highpoint, NC)
Camp Easter Seals, (children with physical disabilities, VA)
Camp Good News (Christian, MA)
Camp Greenville (YMCA NC mtn)
Camp Harrison (co-ed; NC mtn)
Camp High Harbour (YMCA GA & AL)
Camp Holfymont for Girls (NC mtn)
Camp Illahee (girls; NC mtn)
Camp Kanata (YMCA; Wake Forest)
Camp Kanuga (largest Episcopal conf. center in world, NC)
Camps Merrie-Woode (girls, NC mtn)
Camp Rockmont (boys; Christian; NC mtn)
Camp Thunderbird (YMCA; Lake Wylie)
Cherokee Retreat (Presbyterian; NW GA}

Chestnut Ridge Camp & Retreat Center (Methodist co-ed NC mtn)
Corporate Executive Board (summer jobs in DC)
Davidson College — Community Service (summer intems and programs)
Davidson College Day Camp at the Lake
Davidson College Freedom Schools (teaching)
Davidson College - July Experience (coed; HS educational)
Davidson College Lilly Program
Davidson College —- Summer Conferences
Falling Creek Camp for Boys (religious; NC mtn)

Fed Ex Ground (package handlers)

Gwynn Valley Camp (co-ed wilderness, NC)
Keystone Camp (girls; NC mtn)

Lake Norman YMCA - Cornelius
Mad Science of Metrolina (Charlotte/metro science presenter)
Peninsula Yacht Club — Cornelius
Rockbrook Camp for Girls (NC mtn)

Street & Smith’s Sports Business Journal - Charlotte publisher
TreeTops Adventure of The Family Center (abused children, SC)
U.S. National Whitewater Center (Charlotte)

Vassar College Powerhouse Program (theater NY)
Victory Junction Gang Camp (children with illness, NC)
Wachovia Securities

For more information and links to organization website —
www.davidson.edu/careers
Job postings on eCareers

Eric Noble ‘10 played admirably but fell in
doubles 8-5 with Phillip Compeau ’08

Tennis loses first
match to NC State

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team experienced a
tough season opener last Saturday against
N.C. State. Although Davidson fought hard,
this much-anticipated meeting resulted in a
7-0 loss for the Wildcats. Davidson suffered
its first defeat of the season while N.C.
State improved to 2-0 on the young season.

Although the score does not reflect it,

there were positives of the day for Davidson. |

In No. 1 doubles, the Davidson duo of Flaviu
Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 battled
for the only win of the afternoon with a score
of 8-6 in their doubles match. Simihaian
nearly clinched a first set win in his single’s
match but lost in a tiebreak to lose the match
7-6, 6-1. Tareq Alani ’10 also came close to
victory in his second collegiate match by
nearly winning in No. 6 singles against
Daniel Schinke; the final score was 6-4, 6-3.

Kicking off their first spring collegiate
seasons, Arie Hefter "11 and Walker Lyons
1] played in singles action. Hefter won two
games in a 6-1, 6-1 loss against Frideric
Prandecki in No. 5 singles while Lyons was
shutout in a No. 3 singles match.

Lyons also joined Davidson’s Scott Myers
°09 in No. 3 doubles, but lost this match 8-5.
The more experienced pair of Phillip
Compeau ’08 and Eric Noble ’10 faired no
better, also falling short in their match 8-5.

“We were just a half step behind,” Arie
Hefter said. “We have worked very hard
since returning [from winter break], and I
think our fatigue showed a little bit in our
performance. But this fleeting fatigue will
pay off in our future conference matches due
to our enduring hard work.”

Luckily, the Wildcats will enjoy a bit of
time to prepare and rest before Davidson’s
next meeting against the University of South
Carolina at Davidson’s Knobloch Tennis
Center on Sunday at I p.m.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008 11

Wrestling builds
strength over break

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling has been busy the last
couple of weeks. Since the beginning of win-
ter break, the team has competed in New

' York City, Clarion PA, Greensboro and

Davidson. Many of these meets had excel-
lent results, including a win over Princeton
in New York. The team also outwrestled
Gardner Webb at home but lost due to forfei-
tures.

The team began the stretch in Greensboro
five days after Christmas at the Southern
Scuffle, a tournament with seven nationally-
ranked teams and fifty-two ranked individu-
als. Sam O’Hair °09 fared the best, winning
his first match before losing in the second
round. The team finished the tournament in
28th place.

Twelve days later, the team travelled to
New York for two dual meets: one with Duke
and one with Princeton. Trebor Clavette °08
had perhaps the best weekend, scoring a
technical fall against Duke and a victory
against Princeton. O’Hair, Car! Sandercock
"10, and Vitaly Radsky ’11 also won their
matches against Duke, but the ’Cats dropped
the meet. Against Princeton, however, the
team won almost every match except for-
feits, with wins from Ben Altman ’10, Alex
Radsky ’11, Joe McGinley ’11, and Clavette.

On January 15, the "Cats returned to Belk
Arena for their home opener against Gardner
Webb. The match proved to be a frustrating
experience. Davidson won a majority of the
matches but lost the meet due to two forfei-
tures in the 197-pound and heavyweight
classes.

Sandercock wrestled well, earning a pin,
while Altman dominated his opponent on his
way to a technical fall win, 15-0. O’Hair also
soundly defeated his counterpart and was
named the SoCon Wrestler of the Week for
his efforts.

Following the home opener, the team went
back to Greensboro, site of the Southern
Scuffle, for its Southern Conference opener
against UNC-Greensboro.

The tri-meet also included a match-up
with Virginia. Clavette rebounded from a
loss against Gardner Webb with two strong
matches and was the only Wildcat to defeat a
Cavalier. Altman also registered a win
against UNCG, but the team dropped both
matches.

The ’Cats will be back in action this com-
ing weekend on both Friday and Saturday,
first with a SoCon match against VMI fol-
lowed by a contest with Liberty.

“VMI is one of our biggest conference
matches of the year,’ O’Hair says. “I think
we will have our full lineup back, which
we'll need to pull out the win. Winning
against VMI is important because we want
momentum going into the rest of our confer-
ence matches.”

SoCon At a Glance

Furman notched a surprising 74-66 win over
College of Charleston on Saturday for their second
conference win of the year.

Appalachian State completed an impressive week
with an 88-81 victory against Georgia Southern over
the weekend. Earlier in the week, the Mountaineers
defeated Chattanooga, previously unbeaten in SoCon,
92-83 and have now won six in a row.

After dropping both of its games last week,
Chattanooga are only a half game ahead of the
Mountaineers for Ist place in the Northern Division.

The Citadel remains winless in SoCon after drop-
ping games against CofC and Wofford last week.

J

| 7? |

|?

| 43

pS

pS
ae ee

i

| 53 |

| at

pS

| 7

| os

SoCon Men’s

Basketball Standings

