THE DAVIDSONIAN

\

Fielder honors media

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Renowned Ancient Greek statesmen
Pericles once stated “What you leave behind
is not what is engraved in stone, but what is
woven into the lives of others.”

And if there was one quotation that cap-
tured the essence of James K. Batten’s life
and legacy, that was it.

This year’s “James K. Batten Professor
of Public Policy,” Virginia Dodge Fielder,
delivered the 2008 Batten lecture on Monday
night in Hance Auditorium. The lecture both
celebrated the life of the late James K. Batten
’57, and also focused in on the future of the
media industry as a whole.

In a room of students, professors and old
friends of Batten, Fielder began by enlight-
ening the crowd to the journalist’s numerous
and illustrious career achievements.

As a student at Davidson College, Bat-
ten quickly rose through the ranks of The
Davidsonian, eventually becoming its editor-
in-cheif. From there, he went on to directly
work for the Charlotte Observer as a Wash-
ington correspondent who focused particu-
larly on issue dealing with the civil rights
movement.

While Batten temporarily left Mecklen-
burg County to become an editor at the De-
troit Free Press, he soon returned to the Char-
lotte Observer as’ its executive editor. But
that was not the end of the road for Batten.
He went on to become chairman and CEO of
one of the nation’s largest and most success-
ful media conglomerates, Knight-Ridder.

Batten won countless awards for his jour-
nalistic work over the course of his career in-
cluding the George Polk Memorial Award for
regional reporting in 1968 and the William
Allen White Foundation National Citation
of Journalistic Merit and Mass Communica-

3

NeEws
industry’s past, Jim Batten °57

This years “James K. Batten Professor of Public Policy,” Virginia Fielder spoke this
past Monday on the life and legacy of James “Jim“ Batten.

tions in 1990.

During his career, “Jim”, as his col-
leagues affectionately called him, became
one of the biggest proponents of what came
to be known as “public” or “civic” journal-
ism. Public journalism supports the notion
that newspapers and other media outlets are
meant to encourage civic engagement by urg-
ing people to speak out regarding important
social and political issues occurring in their
communities. In doing so, the powers-that-be
would be forced to come up with a solution

- %

ie >

that would reflect the public opinion.

“Jim believed that newspapers should
treat people as ‘citizens’ before ‘customers,’”
Fielder said. “The paper had a responsibility
to engage the community both socially and
politically.”

Fielder claimed that Batten would have
been ecstatic about the vast political interest
that the recent election produced, especially
with regards to the unprecedented grassroots
movement generated by the young.

“He would be so proud to see so many

WEDpNEsSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008 3

students being so outspoken both on campus
and in the community,” she said.

Proclaiming Batten as an advocate of
diversity and social equality, she also stat-
ed that the renowned editor would be “so
proud” that 65 million Americans voted for
an African-American Presidential candidate;
something that was seemingly unfathomable
during Batten’s lifetime.

Fielder also praised Batten as someone
who was preparing for the inception of jour-
nalism’s technological age before many in
the media industry were even thinking about
it. She said that while some journalists have
declared that the onset of online news sites
will lead to the end of print journalism, Bat-
ten would have believed and focused on
what he would consider a more important
shift than that.

“Jim wouldn’t be surprised or upset by
move from the newspaper to the web,” she
said. “Instead, he would be encouraged by
the increased civic engagement that the In-
ternet has brought about.”

After going on to speak more about Bat-
ten’s professional success, Fielder shifted
gears a bit and began to discuss how outside
of all of his career achievements, Batten was
the embodiment of the prototypical “south-
ern gentlemen.” She said that when she was
suffering from illness, he was always at her
side doing anything he could to help.

When Batten fell victim to a malignant
brain tumor, she said, he never complained
or let his family see him suffer.

After Fielder completed her lecture, she
went around the room and asked people who
had fond memories of Batten to share them
with the rest of the audience.

“He just loved people” said one woman
who recounted working with Batten. “The
best thing about him was that Jim helped
people to discover the best of themselves.”

Lp ae EEE TPO sneer

‘BLO

wt
it.

Pars
é Seley

Camps Pouce

(oo .
4 a "¥

1/11/08 = 3:18 p.m. Suspicious Basketball Fan 200 Baker Drive
On Tuesday November 11, 2008 at 1518 hrs officer Heinz received a call on the offi-
cer cell phone in reference to a suspicious person at Baker Sports, 200 Baker Dr. Cell
phone call advised the male subject asked about having basketball memorabilia auto-
graphed. Cell phone caller advised the subject was driving a silver SUV. Reporting
officer observed a silver 1998 Lincoln Navigator parked near the Knobloch Campus
Center, 207 Faculty Dr. Reporting officer found the owner of the vehicle inside the
Campus Bookstore. Reporting officer advised the man of Davidson College policy
and that he could not walk or drive the campus looking for basketball players to auto-

graph items. The individual complied with the investigation and agreed he would not.

11/12/08 = 7:19 p.m. Unattended Computers Little Library
On Wednesday November 12, 2008, Officer Heinz conducted foot patrol in and around the
following: Little Library between 1919 hrs and 1950 hrs. During these times, the officer did
not observe any suspicious activity or damage to property. Reporting officer did notice five
unattended laptop computers and an IPod. The locations and descriptions are as follows:
-Basement, Group Study group # G-32, one white iMac

-First floor common table, one silver iMac, one white iPod, one grey Dell and one black
laptop with a book placed on top of it.

-Second floor Group Study room #209, one silver Dell

11/14/08 = 9:30 a.m. Mysterious Sidewalk Chalk Watson Science Building
On Friday at 0930 hrs, Capt. R.L. Hersey was advised by Stacey Hill, administrative as-
sistant that Irvin Brawley, Physical Plant had called and reported some drawings on the
sidewalks at Watson Life Science building. The reporting officer responded and found
a red circle drawn with chalk on the sidewalk at the east end arch between Watson and
Dana buildings with the State Farm Insurance Company logo “We Are There”. Another
one was drawn at the front entrance to Watson Life Science on the concrete. Photos
were taken and the Physical Plant was contacted reference to having the walk cleaned.

11/16/08 PKA House Trash Can

5:41 p.m. Strange Smoke
On Sunday, November 16, 2008 at 1741 hrs Sgt. Tim Ramsey observed smoke com-
ing from a trashcan located next to the walkway at PKA house. Reporting officer ad-
vised dispatch to contact Davidson Fire Department. Upon arrival, the fire department
determined hot embers caused the smoke. It appeared the embers were from a char-

coal grill. Davidson Fire extinguished the hot embers with water then cleared the scene.

,

“While this will certainly hurt the plan's” S
progress, the commuter train. itself, if and,
when it comes, ‘could almost benefit fro:
conomie. ‘downturns like the current ones
Krider said that, mass transite

wenty-five. ae ‘of ‘the: funding: a
c mie from the state and twenty fi fiveto thir-

‘portation, ie when money’ is’ “ight people:
will theoretically: turn. to ches means

federal funding for. the. project}
wevery the towns are still looking to th
éderal government for money, éspeciall ye
with the imminent | inauguration of Presi- 7

‘than President Bush has beeny and so the
towns. are hoping. that more, funding: for.

the: city of Charlotte that if is better to fund ”
the northern line to Davidson it wil actu

ts ee from arenas for the tracks,
According. to. Krid fy the. recen

trance to o the campus, With the train statio
Levine. argues: that Main, Depot and Jac.

