THE DaviDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcTOBER 1, 2008

The Cunningham Theatre Center may look the same from the outside, but the interior was recently overhauled to reveal a new

and innovative space.
CARA WoODROOF
Staff Writer

You probably know that the Cunningham
Theatre building has been renovated, but you
may wonder what specifically has changed
about the building. The answer seems to be
just about everything.

“Cunningham has been transformed and
it is recognizable only from the outside,” De-
sirée Domo ’09, a theatre major, said.

When entering the building, one immedi-
ately notices the bold colors of the walls and
furniture. Each classroom and professor’s of-
fice has its own unique color. The predomi-
nant color, however, is “gooseberry.” This
rich burgundy color covers the main hallways
and the walls of the new Barber Theatre.

Theatre Department Chair Ann-Marie
Costa, said that the department wanted a col-
or scheme that would say, “We are theatre!”

The renovated building boasts a new main
rehearsal room. The new rehearsal room has
a large mirror, a screen and DVD and sound

Why we “fall” in

Patricia REID AND JENNIFER GAMBRELL _
Staff Writer and Arts & Living Editor

1. Fall Break

Just make it through midterms and it will
all be fine. Head home, commune with
nature on a DO trip, the options are endless.
Whatever you do, be sure to save time to
relax!

i = .

Freshly renovated, Cunnin

#

systems. It also includes several other inno-
vations. A spring floor is designed to lessen

the impact when an actor falls. The window

curtains close at the touch of a button. The
room also has sound-insulating doors. At-
tached to the rehearsal room is a props closet
that will actually hold everything, according
to Domo.

The building’s interior has been rede-
signed to maximize space and efficiency.
There is now much more space for scene de-
sign and construction. Also, all the rooms in-
volved in theatrical productions are connect-
ed. Actors can easily walk from the students’
lounge to the dressing room to the stage.

“T think we all feel pretty spoiled in the
new space,” Steve Foglia ’09 said.

Students and professors agree that the
most important change is the addition of the
Barber Theatre. Barber holds about 160 seats
that can be reconfigured to suit a variety of
different productions. Foglia noted that the
flexible seating would allow directors to play
more effectively with the relationship be-

2. Parent’s Weekend

Nice to see the folks, and even nicer when
they take you out to dinner.

3. Basketball Season Starts
Next Month

This might actually be one of the best
reasons to love the entire year. Crazy school
spirit can brighten anyone’s day!

Among the many things to love about the month of October is the ancient holiday,

Halloween. To take part in the festivities, follow Lucy’s example and go bobbing for

apples.

gham

tween audience and actors. Barber also has
more adequate swing space, the space behind
stage from where props and actors enter.

Toward the back of the swing space there
is a wide loading dock door that allows easy
entrance of props from outside. Barber will
accommodate plays that would have been
performed in the black box theatre, the 900
Room, the Lilly Family Gallery or Tyler-
Tallman Hall. It will allow the theatre de-
partment to put on plays that would not have
been possible otherwise. The room is not just
a theatre, though; it will be a multi-purpose
space for teaching, as well.

A production of “Hamlet” will be the
Barber Theatre’s debut. The flexible seating
will be arranged in a bowling alley configu-
ration, so that the audience will look down
on the props and characters interacting in the
center. Costa said that Hamlet would “accen-
tuate the virtues” of the new theatre.

Props, sometimes carrying actors, will

See Renovation, page 6

love with October

4. Halloween Costume Parties
Tthe question is not what you dress up as,
but how insane and over-the-top you look
while doing it.

5. Halloween Candy

It’s tasty, “fun-sized,” and usually free
for the taking. Candy also easily fits into
the backpack for late-night library study
sessions.

6. Flickerball Tournament &
Championship

You may never get this pumped up about a
PE credit again...

7. Cool Weather

Less humidity means you might be able to
walk to up the hill without breaking a sweat.

8. Carving Jack-O-Lanterns
Reminds us of childhood, and, “The Great
Pumpkin, Charlie Brown”

9. Fall Folliage

Beautiful to look at, plus they make a
great excuse to take a day trip up to the
mountains.

10. The Return of Television

With the writer’s strike as last year’s news,
all your favorite shows have finally returned
this month. Grab the remote and tune in!

IVING

delights Binging for

beauty

Corey BRADLEY
Staff Columnist

Whether their vice is “Sex and the City,”
“Gossip Girls” or even romance novels,
women often have a guilty fascination with
the fabulous lives of unrealistic characters.
Women see thin and gorgeous young ac-
tresses who party lavishly and have a good
time doing it. But, when we watch these
characters drink excessively while looking
beautiful, women begin to associate the two
things together. Alcohol, it seems, will make
a woman confident, sophisticated and sexy.
Drinking becomes a means not only to have
more fun, but also to feel better about the
way we look.

Similarly, it is no surprise that many girls
say it is not as much fun to go dance at a fra-
ternity or eating house party sober. Drinking
often allows women to lose their inhibitions
and insecurities, a combination that causes
them to feel attractive and flirtatious. On a
small campus, it is easy for women to feel
that their image is constantly being scruti-
nized, and the idea of escaping insecurities
becomes especially attractive.

Drinking before going out lets women
forget that they don’t like the way they look
in their jeans or that they think their best
friend looks better. And the more they drink,
the less it seems that other people on the
court are judging their appearance. It is the
perfect remedy to a poor body image.

However, women feeling like they look
better sometimes results in poor judgment.
In recent studies done at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity School of Medicine, Dr. Heidi Hut-
ton found that binge drinking was linked
to unsafe sex practices, often leading to the
contraction of STDs. The finding was most
profound in women.

Hutton’s study, according to an article
published in the Los Angeles Times, reveals
that due to the fact that women have less wa-
ter and more fat in their bodies, they store
alcohol faster and for a more extended period
of time. Because of this, women generally
feel the effects of alcohol more so than men.

This could explain why women are much
more likely to experience sexual assault while
intoxicated and why women who binge drink
have a higher incidence of STDs. Of course,
it is easy to ignore these statistics at a small
school where everyone is trusted and drink-
ing seems to only make the night better, but
as Dr. Hutton’s title reads, “Binge drinking is
fun—until the gonorrhea diagnosis.”

There are a few ways, however, for wom-
en to be safer about going out but still spend
the weekend the way they want. First, it can
be helpful to make sure they eat a sufficient
dinner prior to going out, since food helps
with alcohol absorption. Also, women espe-
cially should always have a friend to watch
out for them throughout the night. Almost
everyone is guilty of making some question-
able decisions, and there is always hope that
a friend can help prevent mistakes.

In many ways, Davidson’s student group
For Loving Yourself (FLY) is focused on
preventing - eating disorders and raising
awareness. However, as the name indicates,
respecting and taking care of oneself is an
over-arching theme.

We have to ask ourselves, how does
drinking affect Davidson students’ lives?
And moreover, how does drinking affect the
way we look at ourselves?

All students, not just women, need to fo-
cus on improving their body image so that

See Binging, page 6
