THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

>

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

13

Quidditch no longer just at Hogwarts

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Ants & Living Editor

The game of “Quidditch,” invented and
popularized by J.K. Rowling’s multi-mil-
lion- dollar “Harry Potter” series, has taken
on new interest on college campuses. In
2005, current Middlebury junior English
major Xander Manshel and 21-year-old art
history major Alex Benepe from New York
created a land-bound version of Harry’s
favorite sport. And now, so popular has
Quidditch become at Middlebury, that this
small liberal arts college has officially
founded the 300-plus member Intercollegiate
Quidditch Association to finalize the set of
rules and provide an outlet for play. Since
then, colleges around the country have liter-
ally caught the bug — or snitch, shall we say.

In fact, eight colleges across the northeast
were in the lead having taken up the art of
Quidditch, with schools ranging from
Wesleyan to UPenn, Princeton and
Dartmouth, and now over 80 colleges and
universities across the country, including
Vassar, Whitman, Amherst, BU and
Bucknell, claim the sport as part of their club
recreational and intramural programs.

As strange as it might seem for mere mor-
tals to recreate a sport practiced by a young
wizard - none other than Mr. Potter himself,
one of the greatest protagonists of our liter-
ary era - Harry and Quidditch are not a far
cry from active college students. In fact,
apart from the obvious lack magical powers
and messenger owl, all you need is a group
of students eccentric enough to run around
with broomsticks between their legs to pro-
pel Quidditch from the books to the field.

And college campuses are nearly perfect

venues for the sport. Step one: nix the goal
posts and hurtles and use any large, grassy
athletic field for game time. Set up three
golden hoops at each end of the field, sus-
pended a few feet in the air by 2x4 poles.
Each team consists of 12 to 15 players, seven
of whom are on the field playing at any given
time. Uniforms are highly important: like
any serious athlete, Under Armour and
sweatpants are a must, and so are goggles
and colorful capes, which can range from
bed sheets to shower curtains. The game’s
most humorous feature is the broomstick,
held firmly between each player’s legs.
Admittedly, the brooms serve next to no pur-
pose apart from forcing the players to invent
amusing strategies to keep them secured in
place and push the entire ensemble into the
realm of the wonderfully absurd.

And while it is a sad fact of life, and as
much as we might wish it, our Nimbus 2000
just won’t fly. Faced with this slight dilem-
ma, collegiate “Potter” aficionados have
adapted the game to be known as “Muggle
Quidditch,” to account for this detail.

im Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
JD. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—’07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjanet professor of trial advocacy
Dake Law School
UNC Low School

’ |

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Eager “Muggle Quidditch” players prep mid-game for a “Bludger” shot.

Therefore to play the game earth-bound,
three “Chasers” pass a “Quaffle,” usually a
volleyball, amongst each other, attempting to
shoot it into the opposing team’s hoops,
which would score ten points. The “Keeper”
functions like a goalie, trying to prevent the
“Chasers” from scoring. In the meantime,
two “Beaters” use brightly colored dodge
balls as “Bludgers” (apologies to those who
have not read the books, but explaining each
term would be superfluous — it’s time to
brush up on your Quidditch knowledge) to
distract and peg opposing team members,
who, if hit, must drop any ball he or she is
currently holding, and return to the respec-
tive team’s line of hoops before playing
again — a concept akin to dodge ball.

In the Rowling series, the crowning
moment of glory and immediate end to the
game comes when the “Seeker” catches the
golden, winged “Snitch.” This elusive ball
takes on the most fantastic characteristics,
randomly disappearing for minutes at a time,
only to emerge in a frenzied torrent. Because
it must be caught in flight, the “Muggle” ver-
sion becomes rather tricky, thus claiming the
most liberties. Instead of a golden ball, the
next obvious solution is a quick-footed,
long-distance runner dressed head-to-toe in
yellow. The runner is expected to leave the
field and race through campus in ten-minute
intervals until he or she is caught, which usu-
ally happens after about 20 minutes. To
“catch” the human “Snitch,” a player must
remove a lumpy sock hanging from the back
of the runner’s shorts, much like in a game of
‘capture the flag,’ earning an instant 50

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J] D.University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
‘B3~'85; 88"~’97
Town of Davidson Commercial and

North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

points and ending the game. And in the spir-
it of the game’s inherent high-injury risk -
broken arms and knocking opponents off
brooms - “Muggle Quidditch” features no
fouls, so anything is fair game.

A game which appeals equally to men and
women, “Muggle Quidditch” is the latest

By MICHELLE JESTER
Managing Editor ..

Scott Ripley, the play was written, designed
and produced entirely by the 29 students of
the Theatre 101 class. The play featured

Gonzalo Sanchez-Slilk ’11 as Hansel, Stacie «
Binney 711 as Gretel, Joey Tabler’ 10 as the. :

woodcutter father, Ellie Szykowny~’11 as
the conniving stepmother, Mike Hatch’11
as the fox Ieree and Stephanie Vertongen
710 as the maiden and witch. It retold the

Hansel and Gretel story in a comical frame-

work unlike the traditional fairytale.
+ 'n this version, the stepmother convinces

the woodcutter to leave his. two children :+
(Hansel and Gretel) in the woods so that...
they can live alone in sexual bliss, Lost in
© just a tribute to the hard work of the Theatr
“101 class but also to Scott Ripley. 4°;

the woods, Hansel and Gretel try to find

their way home but their efforts are compro- ~”
mised by their petty sibling bickerings and ©
’ was not.asked to come: back’ to Davidson

Hansel’s wandering eye.2.%

‘tiful maiden, Hansel. finds himself in the

throes of a child-eating witch. Despite their, However, this is most certainly not the end
‘earlier fights, Gretel saves Hansel from the » ’

witch and they escape together due to sib-
ling teamwork. After they escape from the
_witch, Hansel and Gretel are able to find
their way back home with the help of a sex
‘ually deprived Jamaican man trapped i in the

urce of their family problems. And, as the-
‘ory goes, Hansel, Gretel and their father
live happily éver after.

~- flair to the production. At few of the charac-
“ters. even rapped their thoughts and con-
: _ ‘cerns while wearing what seemed to be the

On Tuesday, April -29. at 8 p.m.,-2/

Davidson’s Theatre 101 class concluded the |

semester with their performance of “Hansel ©"

“He’s SO. Hott Right Now’ and Gretel.”

Although guided by Assistant Professor “

ws

——

Ag 8

© Entranced by a witch disguised asa beau

body ofa fox. When they return home, they:
find that their father has eliminated the evil
and controlling stepmother. and: thus the:

craze resulting when magical pop culture
meets stressed college students. And bridg-
ing the rather vast gap between literature and
athletics, this game is allegedly a down-to-
earth way to spend some quality time in
competition and capes.

“white cap of rap” And, of course, sexual
innuendo pervaded the play..7 :

* The production was clearly a comical
piece, but it also had the faintest bit of moral
substance with lessons about the importance
of families and sibling relationships, The
message of the play, although second place

«to the play’s humor, did make it across to

the audience that “familial love conquers.
all?” ?

Despite the jokes, rap interludes, sexual
innuendos, compromising body movements

<and awkward moments, the “tree actors’?
_,were the hit of the night judging by the
_caudience’s reaction. Standing on stage for
«most of the time, the slightest movement,

act or facial expression of the trees got the
room roaring with laughter...
The play received a standing ovation. The.
audience’s appreciation of the play was not.

“Although beloved by his students, Ripley

next year, so last night’s production was the
culmination of Ripley’s career at Davidson.

of his theatrical vocation. a
He will be performing i in “LAm My Own
. Wife” with the Actors Theatre of Charlotte.
and Blumenthal PAC. After his class’ 5 pro~
‘duction last night, attending Ripley’s per-
formance * will: be an even greater ;treat..

Written by Doug Wright, the play tells the
‘story of a real-life German transvestite who

‘defied and survived the repressive Nazi and

‘ommuni-st regimes through wit’ and
-charm. Due to her work as a cultural ambas-;

-sador, she. was. -awarded. Germany’s ’ ‘most.

prestigious civil award in 1993.“I Am My.

Ithough the: storyline differed 1 from ‘the

Other Areas of Practice
Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trasts

aditional fairytale, what made this produc-. + Own Wife” will be performed at the Booth.
tion so unique was its use of comedy. Each Playhouse’ in Charlottey May.6 to 18.
character had a popular musical introduc-’/ Performances on Tuesday through Saturday:

gdittos, tion and a distinctive trait not found in typi,” are, at:8-p.m. while matinee shows on
eae b cal fairytales ranging from sexy and ditsy to» Sunday are at 3 pam. Students can buy dis-

» counted tickets for $15 by calling -(704)
372-1000 or visit http: //BlumenthalCenter.
- org/rush. ae

‘sexually deprived. The jokes and bodily:
expressions of the characters, to the delight ¥
of the audience, added a modern comical

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892.1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

