THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 30, 2008

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Ants & Living Editor

As Valentine’s Day draws near, thoughts
of sentimental cards, boxes of dark caramel
chocolates and romantic dinners with low
music in the background inevitably arise.

By CarA WoopDROOF
Staff Writer

Staying sound of mind, body and spirit can
be difficult during stressful and exciting
events; however, most people understand
that being strong mentally, physically and
spiritually is necessary to stay sane. And
while this might seem a daunting task, there
are many ways for a Davidson College stu-
dent to maintain and enhance all three types
of wellness.

One new organization aiming to promote
Positive body-image started only a few
months ago. FLY (For Loving Yourself) is a
division of Changing Minds, which works to
promote mental health awareness and help
those suffering from mental disorders.

Changing Minds also works to eliminate
the stigmas often attached to mental illness.
FLY will focus directly on eating disorders
and issues relating to body image and self
esteem.

In February, Changing Minds, along with
FLY, will hold a “De-stress Fest,” which will
include free massages, yoga and tie-dye.

There will also be a lecture given by the

ARTS

‘Heart for the Arts’makes gs

And while these images touch a soft spot in
all of us, they would not exist if it weren’t for
two crucial things which are inextricably
linked: love and the arts.

So in the bright spirit of le “jour d’amour,”
the town of Davidson will promote, love and
honor the arts by hosting its second annual
fundraiser r aptly entitled “Heart for U the Arts. ”

; courtesy photo
Roses for sale at ‘Heart for the Arts,” just in time for Valentine’ s Day

Student groups know health is more than just physical fitness

new nutritionist as well as the new therapist,
both of whom specialize in eating disorders.
Alanna Ford, the head of FLY, wants to
assure the student body that FLY is not a
“therapy group.” It is a gathering of people
trying to induce social change. She adds that
the Health Center is the place to go for ther-
apy.

Changing Minds has even more plans for
positive changes in campus attitudes. The
group will conduct a survey of the Davidson
College population to determine what types
and how many mental disorders exist on
campus. They are also planning to sponsor a
“Great Davidson Activities Drop-Out,” dur-
ing which students will be encouraged to
drop one of their activities to lighten their
workloads.

The Davidson College Triathlon Club
hopes to promote wellness through physical
fitness. This club requires at least three prac-
tices per week to build up endurance for
meets, which include a 500 yard swim, a 12
to 15 mile bike ride and a three-mile run.
Nicole Keroak ’ 08 and Cody Elder ’08 are
heading up the Triathlon Club, and Keroak
stated that “almost everyone is new at it,” so

Spend your summer in Wyoming!

The A Bar A Guest Ranch seeks outgoing,
team-oriented summer staff, All positions
available, check our website for details.
Interviewing at Davidson in Career Services
Office in Student Union. AM of Feb. 8th.
Contact Office of Career Services.
Competitive salary and the experience of a
lifetime. www.abararanch.com. For more info.,
contact: bhowe @abararanch.com.

There will be bouquets of roses to purchase
and send to someone special, and all pro-
ceeds benefit the Arts and Science Council.

There are few better times than Valentine’s
Day to recognize someone important in your
life and make a small contribution to the
inspiration behind all those cards you’ll
receive.

So whether you are thinking of a long-
term romance, friend, family member or
doctor, here’s your chance to send a fresh
bouquet of vibrant roses to let them know
you care.

Even more meaningful, by sending a bou-
quet you are also making a great contribution
to supporting the Arts.

The deadline for ordering flowers is Feb.
6, so if you would like to participate in the
fundraiser, you have about a week to do so.
The price is $5, and to order online, fill out a
form located on the town’s website:
www.ci.davidson.nc.us. You may also call
704-940-9622 and leave a voicemail with
your order. Remember to include this infor-
mation in the message:

1. Your name and phone number

2. The name and address of each recipient

to whom you are sending a bouquet

3. The number of bouquets you are send

ing each recipient

Yoga strengthens physical, mental and emotional health

no one needs to worry about their skill level.

If you are seeking a practice that will help
you achieve a harmonious balance of mental,
physical and spiritual fitness, try yoga.
Kelley Gardner has taught yoga on campus
for 12 years. She teaches “Anusara” Yoga,
which focuses on proper alignment, balance
and healthy breathing to increase physical
intelligence and the ability to cope with
stress.

Classes are held once a week from 12:30
p.m. to 1:45 p.m. and started Jan. 22. The
rate is $9 per class, but Gardner does not
want the cost to keep students from taking
the class. You can contact her at yoga-
song @bellsouth.net.

If you are seeking a source of spiritual ful-
fillment, there are options. There are student
organizations for a number of specific
denominations, such as the Methodist
Fellowship, Catholic Campus Ministry,
Hillel, Westminster Fellowship
(Presbyterian) and the Muslim Students
Association. All of these groups welcome
people of other faiths or those who are just
curious. There are also nonsectarian groups,
such as Sanctuary, Young Life, Interfaith
Fellowship and Intervarsity Christian
Fellowship.

For an accessible hour of worship and
communion, try out Weekly College
Worship. To see a complete listing of all the
faith groups on campus, visit the “Student

IVING .

pecial day better

You may pay in cash, check or
Mastercard/Visa. Send cash and checks to
the Town of Davidson, P.O. Box 579,
Davidson, NC 28036. However, if you wish
to pay with a credit or debit card, you must
first go to Town Hall with your card to pay.
And keep in mind that payment for orders
must be filled before Feb. 10 or the order
will not be delivered.

Another important detail to remember is
that bouquet delivery is restricted to address-
es located in Davidson. If you would like to
send roses to someone outside the town, you
can visit Town Hall, where you may select,
purchase and deliver a rose bouquet yourself.

This fundraiser is a meaningful opportuni-
ty to use the simple, classic gesture of send-
ing flowers to show someone in your life that

‘you care about them. And whether represents

a romantic thought or a long-overdue “thank
you” for a favor, surely your recipient will
feel honored.

As love touches our lives in myriad ways,
shaping us into the people we are today, so
the arts influence and inspire us to reach
higher levels of personal fulfillment and
understanding. This Valentine’s Day, show
your appreciation for the love in your life as
well as the arts -- both are precious and nec-
essary for you to live fully and love deeply.

a

Life” section of the Davidson College web-
site, click on “Religious Life,’ and then
“Student Organizations.”

For a list of opportunities for worship both
on-and-off campus and in the town of
Davidson, go to “Religious Life,” click on
“Chaplain’s Office” and then “Worship
Opportunities.”

Finding your own way to stay healthy may
take personal creativity. You may have to
find the right combination of activities (or
lack thereof) to maximize your happiness
and productivity.

For some, going on a hike with Davidson
Outdoors is the perfect escape from every-
day life and a chance to make new friends.
Others are excited to choreograph and per-
form in Dance Ensemble. Music-lovers may
be encouraged by Musical Interludes in
Tyler-Tallman Hall, and sports fans may get
a high from dressing in red and black and
gathering together to support the Cats.

Some are excited by mastering complicat-
ed instrumental music, and still others
devote their free time to making other people
laugh or making a difference in the commu-
nity.

Remember, the moments when one is
“unproductive” may actually be every bit as
productive as moments of “efficiency.” The
effort to find one’s ideal balance and state of
mind is challenging, but it is completely
worthwhile.
