THE DAVIDSONIAN

i a

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008 9

r 5 tind

McCain weak on policy, strong on lies Environmental

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Writer

The argument for John McCain’s candidacy goes like
this: even though 70 percent of the country thinks that George
Bush’s presidency has been disastrous, and 80 percent thinks
that the country is on the wrong track, the American people
should vote for McCain, a man who agrees with Bush on
most areas of policy and faithfully supported the President’s
agenda. They should do this not because McCain will pursue
a different policy agenda, but because John McCain is the
only honest man in Washington—an unpredictable maverick
who will fix everything with straight talk and his unique
incorruptibility.

If this isn’t a case of tremendous moral vanity, I can’t
imagine one. McCain expects us to believe that he is the only
man in Washington who really puts country first, in spite of
his massive flip-flops and his dirty campaign tactics against
Obama.

In 2000, McCain ran for president as a fairly traditional
Republican and George Bush beat him in a campaign of
rumors, innuendo and slander. Furious with Bush and out of
favor with the Republican establishment, McCain embraced
a number of centrist and liberal positions that his party hated.
He went so far toward the center that John Kerry seriously
considered McCain as his running mate in 2004.

When McCain realized that his only real shot at the
presidency was through the Republican Party, however,.
he reversed his stance on all of these positions to placate a
conservative base which distrusted him and still strongly
supported Bush.

This is the kind of shamelessness, dis-
honesty and desperation that you see
when someone decides that he’d rather
be president than sleep well at night.

If McCain was really an honorable man, he wouldn’t
have opposed his own immigration reform bill of 2007; he
wouldn’t have violated his own campaign finance law; and
he wouldn’t have voted against the anti-global warming bill
‘he co-sponsored. McCain, a POW who endured the same
torture techniques used by the Bush administration, even

voted against a bill that would have prevented the CIA from
torturing terror suspects.

McCain also seems perfectly willing to run a campaign
based on lies, dissembling and libel. Steve Schmidt, a Karl
Rove protégé that made his name by winning through
dirty trick and culture war politics, now directs McCain’s
campaign. He even hired people who told South Carolina
voters that John McCain fathered an illegitimate black child
in 2000.

Their influence is clear. McCain has lied about Obama’s

tax plan, health care plan and legislative record. McCain said.

Obama will raise taxes for most Americans; his plan will
actually lower taxes for 80 percent of the country. McCain
said Obama would put bureaucrats between people and their
doctors, but his plan actually regulates insurance companies
and subsidizes health insurance. McCain said that Obama
favored “[kids] learning about sex before learning to read”
but the bill Obama supported did nothing of the sort. Rather,
it helped kids protect themselves from pedophiles. McCain
even said that Obama, in order to win the election, adopted an
Iraq policy that Obama knew would undermine our country’s
security.

The McCain campaign’s lies have not been confined to
Obama. Since Sarah Palin’s nomination for Vice President,
his campaign has lied about her support for the infamous
“Bridge to Nowhere” over two dozen times. They still insist
that Palin opposed the project, even though Palin backed it
until the Federal government removed the earmark. In other
words, while Alaska would still get the money, it wouldn’t be
used on the bridge. When it became clear that Alaska would
have to pay for it instead ofthe rest of the country, Palin turned
against it, but kept the money for other projects in the state.
McCain calls this behavior evidence of her independent,
reformist character.

This kind of behavior isn’t just normal campaigning. This
is the kind of shamelessness, dishonesty and desperation that
you see when someone decides that he’d rather be president
than sleep well at night.

A year ago, I would tell people that I respected John
McCain, even though I disagreed with him. Today, McCain:
is asking us to ignore his constant lies, vicious smears of
Obama and absurd pandering to the far right and vote for him
because he has honor and integrity. That speaks for itself.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.

Election focus should return to issues

LaurRA SHILLINGBURG
Guest Writer

With only 48 days until Election Day, headlines such as
“Obama paints Palin as pig with lipstick” and “Democrats,
media reveal hypocrisy in attacks on Palin” lead the media
to paint a decidedly pro-Republican picture. Their facts,
however, are just plain wrong. Let’s set the record straight.
McCain’s sudden injection of “change” into his policies was
compared to adding lipstick to a pig, and McCain chose to
twist Obama’s statement. Women supporting women’s rights
don’t have to vote for anything wearing a skirt—if she’s
wrong for the job, it shouldn’t matter what her chromosomes
are. Her gender doesn’t change the fact that she’s the
least experienced VP pick in modern history. She’s also
accompanying the oldest candidate ever to run for president.
Thus, the attacks on Palin are legitimate.

The media, however, is missing the point: McCain
is attacking Obama to avoid talking about the issues. No
American will deny our country is in trouble, but what is
McCain going to do about it? So let’s finally focus on the real
matter at hand: the issues.

If McCain is elected, we’ll be as bad
or worse off than we are now.

Barack Obama’s platform promises to get our troops out
of Iraq — where they never should have been in the first
place, risking their lives based on one man’s ambitions. He
promises to repeal tax cuts for higher income families and
big businesses to pay for a national health care plan. Don’t
be fooled, though — ninety-five percent of the American
population will actually get much-needed tax relief. He
also offers accountability. Rather than learning years later
that our money was paying for someone to live in her own
home instead of the intended travel expenses, we will know
immediately whether our tax dollars are being put to good
use.

John McCain’s platform, on the other hand, doesn’t offer
us much. He keeps saying that the “fundamentals of our
economy are strong.” Bush has been saying the same thing,

but what of those who are losing their homes? Surely, though,
it’s all in their heads: Phil Graham, who wrote McCain’s
economic plan, described the nation’s current crisis as a
“mental recession” and called us “a nation of whiners.”
McCain then promises to keep tax rates low, cut corporate
taxes, etc., ad nauseam. Who’s actually been getting tax cuts
under Bush? The rich, and the companies who are making
huge profits while continuing to raise their prices (read: oil),
thanks to tax loopholes already in place. That, too, will stay
just the same under McCain’s “new” leadership. His strategy
to make gas prices go down? Drill, drill and, you guessed it,
drill. The non-partisan Department of Energy says drilling
will not have an effect on oil availability or pricing until
2030. Do we want to wait that long to see change? McCain’s
website claims that his “policies will increase the value of the
dollar,” but he neglects to mention how. If it’s so easy to do
so, why hasn’t Bush done it?

In matters of foreign policy, McCain has shown he’s
unaware of geography or current events. He has referred
to the fictitious Iraq-Pakistan border, called Vladimir Putin
the President of Germany and confused Sunnis and Shi’ites.
What’s worse, he’s willing to stay in Iraq for as long as it takes
to defeat al-Qaeda, even if it takes 100 years. What a change
from when he said this would be an “overwhelming victory
in a very short-time.” Doesn’t this sound amazingly similar
to Bush’s “Mission Accomplished” stunt from 5 years ago?
In addition to the general “War on Terror” in Afghanistan, he
has shown desire to attack Iran. Palin has expressed interest
in attacking Russia. Four wars at once and counting. Who’s
next and how long is the rest of the world going to allow
this?

If McCain is elected, we'll be as bad or worse off than
we are now. He voted with Bush 90 percent of the time,
their speeches are remarkably similar and their platforms
are frighteningly alike. Worse, Bush visited Alaska before
his trip to China and appears to have handpicked Palin as
VP. Should we check for evidence of cloning? Can America
really afford another four years identical to the last eight? Or
shall we finally unite and say “Enough!”

Laura Shillingburg ’09 is a theater major from Atlanta,
Ga. You can contact her at lashillingburg @davidson.edu.

studies undermines
liberal arts purpose

SPENCER COWAN
Guest Writer

Now that an African-American has just received his party’s
nomination for the presidency, the push for diversity feels,
well, a little stale. So leave it to academia to advance another
questionable “value.” Its new fetish, environmentalism, is at
odds with the principles of a liberal arts education.

Before you accuse me of insensitivity or ignorance, let the
record state—I like polar bears and national parks. Although
recent weather would suggest otherwise, I understand that the
regional droughtis very serious. The potato starch utensils used
at the Union and the ubiquitous recycling bins are evidence
of the college’s laudable commitment to conservation. The
proposed compost bin is also praiseworthy.

But administrators have fallen too hard for this newfound
opiate by creating an environmental studies concentration.

The primary purpose of Davidson College, according to
the college’s sustainability webpage, is to “assist students
in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative
minds for lives of leadership and service.”

Ultimately, the questions that all
students of the liberal arts should
bear—who are we and what are we
doing here—cannot be answered by a
discipline that is both ephemeral and
practical.

So to develop humane instincts, the purpose “necessarily
includes teaching students of the complexities involved in
long term...environmental ...sustainability.” Evidently, the
authors of this statement believe that students should study
deforestation and air pollution to become more compassionate
and thoughtful.

The Regional Change Study Group, part of the Davidson
College Strategic Assessment, furthered the push for
environmentalism in the classroom. The group’s report states,
“a true commitment to the environment in a higher education
setting requires a curricular commitment.”

This raises a broader question not limited solely to
environmentalism: should the college act as an institution
which pushes for social change, or should it preserve its core
curriculum, not yielding to passing fads and trends?

The true liberal arts college, it seems, should take the
latter route. Ultimately, the questions that all students of the
liberal arts should bear, such as who are we and what are we -
doing here, cannot be answered by a discipline that is both
ephemeral and practical.

Academia cannot possibly recognize and respond to every
social phenomenon. Any attempt is akin to a government that
tries to manage its economy.

Academia cannot possibly recognize
and respond to every social
Phenomenon.

But, the beauty of a liberal arts education is evident in
the insight and thoughtfulness of its students. With a liberal
arts degree, graduates can address a variety of problems such
as poverty, global warming and tyranny head on. Graduates
should feel as if the world, not a particular specialty, is their
oyster.

As diversity slowly dies in the new “post-racial” America,
so too, eventually, will the push for environmentalism.
Scientists and policy makers, I have no doubt, will wean us off
of oil and help us reduce our carbon emissions. Environmental
studies will become as antiquated and impersonal as ethnic
studies.

My prediction is that after clean air, high-speed Internet
access will become the next natural nght. Expect a new
concentration, technological studies, which will address
inadequate access to iPods, Internet and WiFi.

Ridiculous as it may sound, the door is now open for any
passing trend to move into academia and find a cozy home —
one without an eviction policy.

Spencer Cowan ’1] is undeclared. He is from Cincinnati,
Ohio. Contact him at spcowan@davidson.edu.
