THE DAVIDSONI!?:

Ray FRAncIs
Staff Writer

Bo Ehikioya ran for 222 yards and three
touchdowns as the Marist Red Foxes held
off the Davidson Wildcats 24-19 Saturday at
Richardson Stadium.

Ryan Alexander ’09 threw for 189 yards
and two touchdowns on 22-37 passing to lead
the Wildcat attack. He also passed the 9,000
yard mark for career passing yards, adding to
the school record that he already owns.

“T feel blessed to have played this much
football,” Alexander said after the game. “It
feels strange to accept any individual recog-
nition in such a team sport, though. Obvious-
ly, none of these yards are possible without
my teammates.”

Kirk Konert ’09 led the receiving corps
with five receptions for 46 yards and a touch-
down while Peter Bakke ’09 and Tyler Lem-
ons ’10 led the defense with 11 and 10 tack-
les, respectively.

Marist struck first when the 240-pound
Ehikioya rumbled 31 yards for a touchdown
midway through the first quarter. The Wild-
cats struck back, capping a 20-play, 85-yard
drive with a 25-yard field goal by Ben Beh-
rendt ’!1 with three minutes left in the sec-
ond quarter. Marist answered with a 28-yard
field goal from Kevin Pauly with 30 seconds
remaining to produce a 10-3 halftime score.

The Wildcats jumped out of the gates
quickly in all three phases of the game after
halftime to take the lead away from the Red
Foxes. The defense held Marist to a three-
and-out on the opening possession, and the
offense proceeded to march 48 yards in six
plays and tie the game on Alexander’s 3-yard
toss to Kirk Benedict ’10. The special teams
then got in on the act, forcing a safety after
Pauly watched the snap sail over his head
and into the end zone on a punt attempt. The
nine points gave Davidson a 12-10 lead that
they carried into the fourth quarter.

Marist had the answer, however, scoring
and reclaiming the lead on Ehikioya’s 8-yard
run with eleven minutes to play and expand-
ing their lead on his seven-yard run with six
minutes to play. The second touchdown was
set up after Alexander fumbled while being
sacked deep in his own territory. The Wild-
cats marched down the field once more and
score with 1:07 to play on Alexander’s 22-
yard strike to Konert on 4th-and-nine. Marist,
however, recovered the ensuing onside kick
and ran out the clock.

Marist intercepted Alexander twice in the
fourth quarter to thwart Wildcat comeback
attempts. The Red Foxes were completely
ineffective passing the ball due to constant
pressure applied by the Wildcats (throwing

We'd Lik

im's career-long track recond of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistent!
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is

a Widely respected trial lawyer knowa throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people ©
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
aftend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Towe Planning Board.

APPEALS » BANKRUPTCY » BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANNING

At

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 » (704) 892-1699 + www.mcintoshlawfinm.com

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Ehikioya, Marist run past ’Cats

Chad Barnes ’09 led the ’Cats with 44
yards rushing in Saturday’s 24-19 loss.

for only 26 yards), but their 274 rushing
yards proved sufficient to carry the day.

Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt said that the
first interception occurred because a receiver
was knocked down during a timing route.
The other interception was made by a diving
defender after the ball had already caromed
off of the intended receiver and his defender.
These breaks (as well as an offside penalty
that forced Davidson to attempt their first-
half field goal, one of only two Wildcat pen-
alties in the game), seem to embody a sea-
son in which the Wildcats have often played
well. enough to win only to find themselves
undone by an accumulation of small errors.
Only one of the Wildcats’ seven losses has
been by more than thirteen points and four
have been by six or less.

Merritt also praised his senior class,
whose career will come to an end next week
against Butler, calling them “leaders on the
field and in the community.” Myles Potter
’09 became the second senior to surpass the
1,000 yard mark for career receiving yardage
this season with a reception late in the fourth
quarter, and Bakke passed the 200 tackle
mark for his career.

The loss dropped Davidson to 3-7 and
2-5 in the Pioneer Football League. Marist
finished its season at 4-7. The Wildcats will
now focus on the season finale against Butler
at noon on Saturday at Richardson Stadium.
The game will also be Senior Day.

“Ending on a winning note is very im-
portant to this team,” Alexander said. “We'll
prepare this week like any other, but it will be
a little more special for the seniors because
they know this is the last game they will ever
play for Davidson.”

tosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered «

substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
of criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
Jaw inchuding, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
ag well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities a3 an altomey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live 1-
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member

@ Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
i Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. andin has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY
REALESTATE « WILLS & TRUSTS

Sanker shines at
NCAA Regionals

PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats women’s cross
country team ended their 2008 season with
a strong showing at the Southeast Regional
Championship. Last Saturday, the Wildcats
finished in 20th place (out of 32 teams), in a
race held on the fast 6k course at Tanglewood
Park in Clemmons, N.C.

Caroline Sanker ’09 led the Wildcats
with an individual finish of 25th place, and
her performance earned her All-Regional
Honors. She came in with a time of 21:44.
Her leadership, hard work; and outstanding
performances will be missed next season.
Other top finishers for the Wildcats were
Danielle Ruggieri ’11 (101st / 23:05), Lauren
Childs ’11 (111th / 23:12), Heather Connaroe
*11 (118th / 23:17) and Jane Gay ‘12 (148th/
23:46). There were a total of 231 women
who ran in the event.

The top-5 team finishers in the field in-
cluded University of Virginia (105 points),
University of Kentucky (126 points), Uni-
versity of North Carolina — Chapel Hill (154
points), Duke University (171 points), and
William and Mary (204 points). Overall,
the Wildcats had a very good season which
showing a combination of veteran senior

‘leadership and talented underclassmen.

Next fall, the team will return 12 of the
16 runners from this year’s team and will
once again hope to compete for a Southern
Conference Championship.

The men’s cross country team also com-
pleted their 2008 season with a solid finish at
the Southeast Regional Championship. The
10k race was held on the flat and fast course
at Tanglewood Park. Tanglewood Park is in
Clemmons, N.C., and it is the home of Wake
Forest University. The 10k track is broken up
into a 4k loop which they ran twice and then
one 2k loop.

The Wildcats finished 21 out of 29 teams
at the Regional. This was a very good result
for the Wildcats because two of their top run-
ners, Alex Hoyt ’09 and Tom Divinnie °10,
were unable to run due to injury.

When Coach Andrew looked back on the
whole season he was pleased. He said, “It was
a good way to end the season. We finished
ahead of UNCG who beat us at conference
and [we] would have beaten WCU, who also
beat us at conference, if they had finished
five runners to count in the team score.”

The race consisted of Davidson and 28
other Division-I teams in the Southeast. The
Wildcats finished in 21st place with a score
of 619 points, 553 points behind the winning
Tribe from William and Mary. Other top-5
team finishers behind WMU were University
of Virginia (67 points), North Carolina State
University (111 points), Duke (146 points)
and Liberty University (156 points).

The Wildcats were led by Lance Harden
°09, who was the only Wildcat to finish in the
top-100 individuals. Harden finished 88th
and ran the race in 33:08. Following Harden
were Greg Marcil ’11 (120th / 33:49), Char-
lie Schmitt ’11 (130th / 34:05), Thad Sier-
acki ’09 (133rd / 34:16) and Ian Tupper 712
(148th/ 34:50).

Other ’Cats’ runners who didn’t factor
into the scoring were: Ryan Hopkins ‘12
(153rd/ 35:16) and Jonathan Koch ’11 (171st
/ 36:17). There were a total of 212 runners
who participated in this year’s Southeast Re-
gional Championship. The men’s cross coun-
try team will return ten of this year’s thirteen
members and next year will go after a South-
ern Conference Championship.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

11

Oklahoma, from page 12
points on seven of 11 from close and three
of five from long range in his 24 minutes of
play before fouling out.

The Wildcats also suffered from foul
trouble throughout the night as Curry picked
up three fouls in the first half and was forced
to watch from the bench as the ’Cats took a
cold streak into the locker room at the half.
In the second half, Davidson was plagued by
foul trouble again as key starters Rossiter and
Gosselin found out.

The loss puts a blemish on Davidson’s re-
cord and leaves them with a 2-1 mark head-
ing back home to Belk Arena where they will
attempt to get back on the right track against
the Winthrop Eagles Friday at 7 p.m.

and Bryant Barr °10 . .

Step en Curry
look on during the Wildcats’ season-
open 107-83 win over Guilford College.
