12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY. 13 2008

Wildcats Think Pink after clutch, comeback win

By Patrick MCARDLE AND SAM Morris
Sports Editor and Guest Writer

On the road in Boone, N.C. on Saturday, the women’s bas-
ketball team pulled out a last second, come-from-behind vic-
tory against Appalachian State 67-66. With this exciting win,
the Wildcats improve their overall record to 14-9 while also
improving their conference record to 8-4.

Kelly Gassie 09 and Julia Paquette °10 both paced the
team in scoring with 13 points apiece, providing the neces-
sary firepower from the bench to pull off the comeback.
Danielle Hemerka °08 kept the Wildcats competitive in the
first half by scoring nine of her 12 points in the first half. She
earned her second double-double of the season by collecting
11 rebounds against the Mountaineers.

It was Mercedes Robinson ’09, however, who came
through in the clutch. Although only managing six points for
the game, Robinson drained the game winning shot for the
Wildcats by handling an inbounds pass with 4.2 seconds on
the clock and converting near the hoop.

The ’Cats dug a huge hole for themselves in the early
going, falling behind 22-9 within the first five minutes of
play. The Mountaineers did not relent, eventually pushing
their early lead to 40-19 with five minutes remaining in the
half. Luckily, the Davidson defense held Appalachian score-
less for the rest of the half, cutting the deficit to 40-29 at the
break.

After Honna Housley ’08 capped off a 12-2 run in the sec-
ond half to tie the game, both teams began to trade buckets
with each other. Appalachian State again secured a slight
cushion of 65-61 with 1:40 left in the game. Alex Thompson
*10 again tied the game by hitting both ends of the one-and-
one, but Whitney Tossie, Appalachian’s leading scorer with
22 for the game, drew a foul on the other end. Tossie hit her

first shot, but could not sink the second, opening the win-
dow for Robinson’s nail in the coffin.

The Wildcats will return home to play UNC Greensboro
on Friday at 7 p.m.

Friday’s game against the Spartans will have special sig-
nificance when the ’Cats participate in a special gameday
promotion, “Think Pink.” The Wildcats will be taking part
in this NCAA-wide promotion to support breast cancer
awareness. One woman out of eight will be affected by
breast cancer in her lifetime, and cancer is the second lead-
ing cause of death in the United States.

“With 13 players, four coaches,
three managers and a trainer who
are female, the statistics show
that it is likely that at least one of
us will develop breast cancer.”

-Coach Annette Watts

“With 13 players, four coaches, three managers and a
trainer who are female, the statistics show that it is likely
that at least one of us will develop breast cancer,’ Coach
Annette Watts stressed. “That’s a scary stat and one that we
need to be aware of and take every precaution to prevent or
have early detection of this dreadful illness. We hope that
this game can stimulate some thought as well as educate.”

Aside from merely raising awareness, the ’Cats will
donate the gate receipts from Friday’s game to the Kay Yow
foundation. This foundation was created by the Women’s
Basketball Coaches’ Association in December of 2007 in

4 oto courtesy Of
ia = Some b po a

Mercedes Robinson ’09 scored the game winning

shot against App. State with 4.2 seconds left.

me

conjunction with the long established Jimmy V Cancer
Foundation. The foundation serves two key purposes; it
raises money for scientific research and assists the under-
served in an effort to fight against cancer.

The namesake of the foundation, Kay Yow, is the head
coach of Women’s Basketball at North Carolina State
University. Yow, while battling and surviving breast cancer
three times since 1987, has led the Wolfpack for 32 years
to 20 NCAA tournament appearances, including a Final
Four appearance in 1998. Yow led the U.S. Women’s
National Team to a gold medal in Seoul, Korea, in 1988.
She was also inducted into the Naismith Basketball Hall of
Fame in 2002.

“This game not only helps to raise awareness of breast
cancer it also celebrates those who have fought the fight
and those who are currently fighting. It honors those who
are no longer with us due to breast cancer,’ Watts said.

“Blackout” results in blowout win for ’Cats

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

In front of the largest crowd to ever watch a Southern
Conference game at Belk Arena, Davidson dominated play
from start to finish on Saturday on their way to an 81-56 vic-
tory over College of Charleston. The record crowd of 5,753

Belk Arena held a record crowd of 5,753 on Saturday
during the “Blackout Belk” game against Charleston.

i

“Player of the Week

Stephen Curry “10

Men’‘s Basketball
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.

Curry, who is fifth in the nation in scoring with 25 ppg, scored 36
i points and had eight rebounds in last week’s 74-64 win over Elon.
He followed that up with 26 points and six rebounds in Saturday’s
81-56 vitory over CofC. His performance earned him SoCon Player

was led by thousands of black-clad Wildcat fans who turned
out for Davidson’s “Blackout Belk Arena” event. Stephen
Curry ’10 led the ’Cats with 26 points and six rebounds
while backcourt mate Jason Richards ’08 recorded a double-
double with 11 points and 10 assists.

The Wildcats clung to a 10-8 lead early in the contest but
used an 18-5 spurt midway through the first half to distance
themselves from the Cougars. The ’Cats were forced to
complete the run with Curry on the bench as he picked up
two early fouls. The sophomore still finished the first half
with 15 points as he connected on five of his six three-point
attempts.

Davidson was propelled to a 38-22 halftime advantage by
a tenacious defensive performance. The ’Cats forced CofC
into 10 first half turnovers and six different Wildcats had a
steal in the first half. The Cougars shot just 31.8% from the
field in the first half and were outrebounded 20-18.

The ’Cats continued their inspire play after the break and
opened the second half on a 19-7 run that extended their lead
to 57-31 with just over 12 minutes to play. Richards and
Curry took care of the ball all afternoon as the Wildcats
committed just seven turnovers while forcing 18 Cougar
turnovers that resulted in 17 points.

Nine different "Cats scored in the game, and Boris Meno
’08 led the solid bench play with 10 points and 10 rebounds.
Meno was benched in favor of Andrew Lovedale 710 13
games ago, and the move has paid great dividends for Bob
McKillop’s team.

The team has now won 13 in a row since the move while
Meno has been particularly productive coming off the
bench. Lovedale added eight points and five rebounds as
well in Saturday’s win.

Saturday’s victory extended numerous winning streaks
for Davidson. They have won 25 straight SoCon regular
season games, including a streak of 12 straight at home.
The Wildcats’ overall home win streak sits at 13 games and
they have won 37 of their last 39 in Belk Arena. Curry also
extended his personal streak of double-digit scoring games
to 50.

Earlier in the week, the ’Cats defeated Elon at home 74-
64 behind 36 points from Curry. The contest was a hard-
fought battle, and the Phoenix stayed within striking dis-
tance all night but never got closer than four in the second
half.

Leading just 62-58 with less than three minutes to play,
Curry connected on a long three-pointer that sealed the vic-
tory for the Wildcats. Curry also added eight rebounds
while Richards added 16 points, half of which came from
the free throw line. The backcourt tandem of Curry and
Richards combined to go 17-20 from the foul line on the
evening, and the "Cats combined to shoot an impressive
87.5% (21-24) from the charity stripe as a team.

Curry’s performances last week earned him SoCon
Player of the Week honors for the third consecutive week.
It is the fourth time this season he has earned the award.
The ’Cats will look to continue their SoCon success as they
play three conference games in the next six days.

Davidson sits in sole possession of first place at 15-0 (17-
6 overall) heading into tonight’s game at UNCG. It is the
first of two meetings between the Spartans and Wildcats
this week. The ’Cats host Furman on Saturday before their
second match-up with UNCG in Belk Arena on Feb. 19.
Tuesday’s game with the Spartans with be nationally tele-
vised on ESPN2 and is set for a 7 p.m. tip-off.

"PLAY OF THE WEEK —

SREB ie Srinpriait ARE

of the Week honors for the third consecutive week.

Robinson’s Late Basket Propels Lady ’Cats to Road Win

The Lady Wildcats were trailing 66-65 with 4.2 seconds left when forward
Mercedes Robinson ’09 received the inbounds pass and converted on a short run-
ner in the lane to lead the ’Cats to a 67-66 road victory over SoCon foe
Appalachain State. The basket was Robinson’s sole field goal of the second half.
