2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

ge

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Philanthrophy and microfinance: money in the bank

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

A relatively new phenomenon in the
worlds of both business and philanthropy,
“microfinance” has taken the world by storm
since its inception. In only a few years, mi-
crofinance has become one of the most effec-
tive and appealing endeavors to fight interna-
tional poverty in an increasingly globalized
world.

What microfinance does is offer under-
privileged people access to basic financial
services that may not otherwise have been af-
forded to them. With world renowned agen-
cies such as KIVA and Microfinance Gate-
way leading the way, microfinance organiza-
tions loan small sums of money to citizens in
developing countries who are attempting to
start a business.

“Micro finance is really
unique because it’s a form of
poverty alleviation that also
helps to build up the econo-

mies of under developed
countries.”
-Julie Palm ’10

Once, the business is up and running, the
client pays back the entire loan to the organi-
zation, and the organization proceeds to use
that same money to assist other clients in de-
veloping their businesses.

The notion of microfinance, however, is

Dark from page I

In order to get the word out about Do
It in the Dark, EAC worked with Davidson
Outdoors to set up a tent village on Cham-
bers Lawn. Students living in the village on
November 12 and 13 tried to live off the
power grid while publicizing ways to save
energy.

A large circus-like tent drew the atten-
tion of other students as they walked to
class. Josh Carson, a member of EAC and
participant in the tent village, explained,
“The novelty of the experience made it quite
fun, and nothing I kept with me in my tent
required the use of electricity. I felt freed
from my need to use energy for part of my
everyday life.”

What can students do in their dorms
to save energy? Turning off lights in dorm
rooms and common areas makes a big dif-
ference. It’s also easy to tum your computer
off: a 150-watt personal computer system
will use 1,314-kilowatt hours of electricity
a year if left on continuously.

To eliminate the “phantom load” (en-
ergy use even when an appliance is turned
off), try plugging things like DVD players,
coffee players and gaming systems into
power strips, and turning the strip off when

not limited to simply large financial and phil-
anthropic institutions. In fact, Davidson Col-
lege has a Microfinance Club of its own.

In a relatively short time period, the club
has already raised over $10,000 to aid them
in their efforts.

Club president Julie Palm 710 says that
the club has already made hundreds of dollars
in loans to several entrepreneurs, and plans
on continuing to do so throughout the course
of the year. She points out that unlike some
other philanthropic groups, the Microfinance
Club is a self-sustaining organization.

“Theoretically, we should no longer
need monetary assistance from outside or-
ganizations because after we’ve made a loan
to someone, we get all of that money back
within nine months,” Palm said. “This allows
us to help countless people using the same
renewable source of money.”

For Palm, like so many others involved
in microfinance, the fact that this type of phi-
lanthropy is geared towards fighting poverty
at a grassroots level makes it particularly ap-
pealing.

“Microfinance is really unique because
it’s a form of poverty alleviation that also
helps to build up the economies of underde-
veloped countries,” Palm said. “By giving
citizens of these nations the funds to start
their own businesses, it really attempts to
fix poverty at its roots rather than throwing
money at the surface.”

However, she quickly said that by no
means are more traditional charities a bad
thing, but that microfinance is merely an-
other way for people to, “use their funds in a
socially conscious, humanitarian way.”

“From a more practical standpoint, I

“The novely of the experi-
ence made it quite fun...
nothing I kept with me in my
tent required the use of elec-
tricity. I felt freed from my
need to use energy for part
of my everday life.”
-Josh Carson ’09

you’re done using the appliance.

Another simple option is to open mini-
fridges less frequently, which allows the 30
percent of cold air that escapes by opening
the door to stay inside, saving energy.

Also, students studying together in
rooms in Chambers or dorm room is better
than having lights on in many rooms where
people are studying alone.

EAC is not the only organization on
campus promoting the environment during
November. Engage for Change’s week of
focused programming included a recycled
gift craft session and a Beans and Rice in-
teractive dinner.

Watts, -5.1%
Duke, -9.5%

Do Itin the Dark
Are you in the lead?

» Tomlinson, 3.8%

Down the Hill Bam
Richardson, 16.9%
Cannon, 14.1%

Sentelle, 12.0%
Belk, 11.9%

-15.0% -10.0%  -5.0% 0.0% 5.0%

% Energy Decrease

10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0%

graph by Rachel Andersen

|
The results of the “Do It In the Dark“ competition thus far.

think that microfinance appeals to a type of
giver who may not otherwise be willing to
donate their money,” Palm said, “People who
are more business savvy may be tempted to
give to a group that will both help the less
fortunate and assist in building up an under-
developed economy.”

“People who are more busi-
ness savvy may be tempted
to give to a group that will
both help the less fortunate
and assist in building up an
under developed economy.”
-Julie Palm ’10

Also, the notion that the giver will ulti-
mately get their money back is very entic-
ing to people who may otherwise be wary of
donating their money to an organization they
don’t know much about.

The Davidson Microfinance Club uses the
website www.kiva.org to make their loans.

By its own definition, KIVA “is the
world’s first person-to-person micro-lending
website, empowering individuals to lend di-
rectly to unique entrepreneurs in the devel-
oping world.” The website allows users to
browse perspective entrepreneurs and give
money, via credit card, to whomever they
choose.

Every other week, Davidson Microfi-
nance Club members meet as a group to de-
cide on what individuals they will give Joans

Lye os

: school. This cover letter would summarize

to. Palm says that the members take a variety
of factors into account, including the type of
business being run, in what way the business
will help those around it, as well as the per-
son’s geographic location.

“We really seek both demographic and
geographic diversity because we want to
have a hand in every region of the world,”
said Palm.

One of those demographics that the group
believes is particularly important is women.
In the microfinance world, over 85 percent of
the clients are women. This is due to the fact
that in many developing countries, women
are discouraged from starting their own busi-
nesses and often do not receive the financial
support necessary to begin a company. Thus,
they look towards Western-based microfi-
nance organizations in hopes of attaining the
basic funds. For many women, these groups
are their only option when it comes to fulfill-
ing their dream of owning a business.

The group is planning a number of aware-
ness raising initiatives in the coming months,
including a forum with Davidson professors
and esteemed guests that should be held early
next semester. In the mean time, Palm en-
courages anyone who is interested in joining
the club, to contact her at jupalm@davidson.
edu.

Many economic experts have stated that
if microfinance is adopted worldwide and
used effectively, than it could eradicate pov-
erty in less than 50 years.

To many, such a notion may seem a far-
fetched, idealistic impossibility. Palm, how-
ever, hopes that people will look at microfi-
nance and give it the opportunity to change
the world

certain, aeademt C aspects of Davidson, such
