, sekends are any, indication,’
es of registering & part LAS. Sbaiewat inconvenient

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
News Editors
* Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Aa, A Perspectives Editors
va Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
ra Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley g
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright.
Online Editor J é
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

RAN GOUGH
Guest Writer

To preface this submission, I would like to use the words
of my favorite presidential candidate, Barack Obama. Sena-
tor Obama, when asked when a zygote becomes a human be-
ing, answered, “I believe the answer to that question is above
my pay grade.” My reaction to his answer: “I wish I could
use that answer on a final!” But this article is not about the
presidential election. I'l] leave that to Bobby DesPain and
others. Nevertheless, I have to say, I may be writing some-
thing that is over my head, and the answers to my questions
and observations are definitely “above my pay-grade.” But I
have questions and concerns. And hey, we’re at a liberal arts
college, no? Questions are welcome, and the juicier the bet-
ter, no? So here goes:

A couple of nights ago, I sat in my room while finish-
ing some reading, and J listened to Ella Fitzgerald. Ella was
in Berlin, serenading the crowd and knocking them dead. A
clerk in Barnes and Noble once told me, “Man, let me tell
you. Ella, she just gets me every time. I don’t think I could
live without her music.” Her career was extraordinary. She
connected with millions, and her songs continue to win ad-
mirers. I switched to a jazz compilation that my good friend
Bryan Norris and I put together. I opened my impressionism
book for class, and while looking over the works of Manet,
Caillebotte, Degas and Monet, enjoyed the soft sounds of
Dave Brubeck, the genius of Miles Davis, the “blue” of the
Ahmad Jamal Trio, among others. My close friends love to
remind me of my nerdy interest in jazz and art, but I’m okay
with that.

So what are Koons’ and Hirst’s most
famous works telling me? First: I need
to get into contemporary art, because
they are making a lot of money. Sec-
ond: America sucks and you’re going
to die.

I’m worried. I do not want to be a “culture catastrophist”
and I do not want to cry out that we are entering some sort
of “cultural apocalypse,” but I’m worried. I sat in the Union
with my friends the next day and asked, “When we look at
our generation, when we look back on the artists that we grew
up on, can you think of anyone that you will remember as
great?” The answer was stark and unanimous: “No.” I’m cur-
rently looking at the most -purchased music on iTunes. Girl
kissing Kate Perry who claims that “ur so gay and you don’t
even like boys” tops the list along with Disney sensation the
Jonas Brothers. Where are the greats? Where are those that
we will look back on and think, “They did something special.
I’m glad I got to witness their artistic development.”

The obvious retort: Ryan, there has always been kitsch
culture. There has always been music just for pure entertain-

TIVES

Are we living in a cultural apocalypse?

THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

ment. That’s fine, and I completely agree, but where is our
generation’s Beatles, Zeppelin, Miles Davis, Louis Arm-
strong, Bob Marley, Frank Sinatra, Nina Simone, Rolling
Stones? Where are the musicians that bridge the gap between
pop culture and art? Why are we singing along to violent,
hateful songs? Why are we singing along to songs with such
base, sensual lyrics?

Turning away from music, let’s look at avant-garde cul-
ture. The Wall Street Journal just published an article about
Damien Hirst, a contemporary British artist worth more than
$1 billion. Among his famous works are the “Vitrine Works.”
They are large tanks of pickled sharks, dead calves, decaying
bull’s heads and other disgusting things that are aptly titled
things like, “In His Infinite Wisdom,” “The Kingdom” and
“The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Some-
one Living.” These works sell for tens-of-millions of dol-
lars. What is the significance of these works? From www.
whitecube.com: “these works recast fundamental questions
concerning the meaning of life and the fragility of biological
existence.” The site goes on to claim that he is “a leading art-
ist of his generation.”

Let’s turn to another artist: Jeff Koons. You may know
Koons if you visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art this
summer. His sculptures graced the Met’s (very cool) rooftop
garden. His more famous works are of large glossy, reflective
figures that look like massive balloon animals. The San Fran-
cisco Examiner stated that Koons “is holding up a mirror to
show what America looks like by grossly imitating the shal-
lowness, perversity and emptiness of commercial society.”
His works, many critics argue, long for meaning, but they
are impenetrable. There simply is no meaning to them. Other
critics argue that the works invite the viewer to reflect on the
kitschy-ness of American culture. Koons is also regarded by
some as an innovative artist of our time.

So what are Koons’ and Hirst’s most famous works tell-
ing me? First, I need to get into contemporary art, because
they are making a lot of money. Second, America sucks and
you’re going to die. Not only are you going to die, but you’re
going to rot in the cold, dead earth that doesn’t care about
you. And what will you leave behind? A kitschy America that
celebrates drugged-up celebrities, bad reality TV shows and
even worse music. How profound. How original. How in-
novative. Those ideas, rendered in an artistic media are defi-
nitely worth $11.8 million (the amount paid for one of Hirst’s
preserved sharks). Another artist is reminding me that I am
going to die and that my culture is base and insignificant. I
cannot help but think that they are laughing with this stuff
all the way to the bank, along with the pop artists that make
millions on music about “big pimpin,’” “kissing girls” and
“gold digging.” I’m not saying that a cultural apocalypse is
here, but I feel like I have cause to be concerned. Then again,
I may just not get this whole postmodern culture thing. It may
be above my pay grade.

Ryan Gough ’10 is a political science major from Eliza-
bethton, Tenn. Contact him at rygough@davidson.edu.

Cell phones cause disturbance in class

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

Imagine yourself sitting in class. The professor is con-
ducting a lecture or seminar, and the discussion is starting to
heat up. All of a sudden, you think you hear “Gimme More”
by Britney Spears. Better yet, “Lovebug” by the Jonas Broth-
ers. The class drops to a silence almost instantly. Someone
reaches in their pocket or purse, hastily pulls out a cell phone
to silence it as soon as possible, and then goes back to class
mode as if nothing happened.

Letting a cell phone audibly ring is one of the most in-
considerate things that can happen in a classroom setting.
I’m referring to students as well as teachers.

Teachers come to the classroom to teach, and students
come to learn. Disrupting the learning process in that manner
is unacceptable. Teachers should be much stricter on those
who let their cell phones ring in class, and students should
reflect the teachers who fail to uphold the policy themselves
in their course evaluations. Just as teachers would not want
students to answer a call in the middle of class, the opposite
should also hold true.

There’s a very simple solution to all of this: tam your
phone off. At the very least, put it on the “silent” setting.
Answering your phone or texting should not be competing
with learning in the classroom. If you really need to have an
important conversation with someone, don’t come to class.

Putting it on “vibrate” really doesn’t solve the problem much
— the vibration is louder than you think.

We are not in high school anymore; we have the freedom
to carry our cell phones into class, but we must also bear the
responsibility of not letting them become tools of disruption.

Letting a cell phone audibly ring is
one of the most inconsiderate things
that can happen in a classroom setting.

One of the worst instances of this occurred two years
ago in my ‘International Politics’ class with Dr. Alexander.
Someone sitting in the front row left her cell phone on the
desk and went (presumably) to the bathroom. The cell phone
started vibrating loudly on the desk, and after a frustratingly
awkward thirty to forty-five seconds, it stopped. Please don’t
be that student.

The next time you go to class, take the extra seconds to
do a simple task. As you are walking up the stairs to the sec-
ond floor of Chambers or into the Sloan music building, take
your cell phone out of your pocket or purse and ensure that it
won’t be disturbing the class. Please be considerate of those
who value learning more than your personal life.

Anjan Mukherjee '09 is a music major. He is from Chevy
Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.
