THE DAVIDSONIAN

Divestment from Sudan a moral duty for

JusTIN EUSEBIO
Guest Columnist

In response to the ongoing and relentless genocide occur-
ring in Darfur, human rights activists have, for the past two
years, aimed to persuade American states, cities, universities
and companies to divest or eliminate institutional holdings
from companies doing business with the government of
Sudan.

In an impressive list that includes the state of North
Carolina and peer liberal arts institutions such as Williams,
Bowdoin and Middlebury, 24 states and more than 60 col-
leges and universities have committed to disinvest from
Sudan in some fashion.

The movement has continued to gain steam as President
Bush approved the Sudan Accountability and Divestment
Act in December 2007, making it easier for mutual and pen-
sion funds to sell their holdings in targeted companies and
providing viable alternatives for socially responsible invest-
ment.

Divestment is not the appropriate
response to most of the world’s
social injustices due to the poten-
tial for undesired collateral dam-
age.

Institutional divestment from Sudan conveys several sym-
bolic messages. For the U.S. government, divestment bold-
ly demonstrates that Americans consider Darfur an impor-
tant issue that requires attention from lawmakers.

For American universities and colleges, divestment trig-
gers other institutions and organizations to act. For U.S. cit-
izens and the international community, divestment by
major, respected institutions raises the visibility of genocide
and sends a clear message that no American entity, govern-
mental or private, will condone genocide or those who sup-

Life on the Court.
An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss
Chapter Four: Envy

Mert college studew X, whe drunkealy
Weaves across the throlsbnay Hoar

OW AGYs Friday jobilee -

A Marc Grasdhemuad senorgasbord;
Caught within the dank debs

OF hea asd beavng ecstasy,

X wopes blindly toward the door

Tor qa this scene of bloesdless gore.

X has Mnttered aecey an Ienir

En thas frat of digh acelin,
Lusting vainly for 2 flawes

To press aguinst his wilting frame;

As the beer ecalaeusts its power An emerald glint upon his eye,

To besumb his senseless. bran, His loucly longing he reveals

X*s ricer hegins to sour By cursing the luck of that senug lide guy;
Pov faslirag tn bis prament aun. Wondenng why oh why ob why

Trapped in the shade of this wild bower, That comely she :

‘His countenance turns ever dow; Is dancing wih he

Singed within by the silemt flame Tasted of oth me, vbo's mech more fly.
Of broken dreams and creepg sharac., And all X can do is sigh.

PERSPECTIVES

port it.

The current divestment campaign targets only those com-
panies operating in Sudan that provide revenue or arms to
the government or demonstrate insignificant policy or ben-
efit to the victims of the genocide and the underprivileged
population.

Divestment is not the appropriate response to most of the
world’s social injustices due to the potential for undesired
collateral damage. When college students advocated for
divestment from South Africa during apartheid, critics
pointed out that many of the companies targeted for divest-
ment employed the same individuals they aimed to protect.
Since the fundamental goal of divestment is to protect the
victims in Darfur, it is imperative to ensure maximum
impact on the Sudanese government and minimal harm to
innocent Sudanese citizens.

When oil was first drilled in 1999, Sudan experienced a
great influx of revenue into their struggling economy.
Corporations from energy hungry nations like China, India
and Russia took advantage of Western reluctance to invest
in an authoritarian regime with a tainted human rights
record. Despite increased oil revenues, regions outside the
national capital in Khartoum have not experienced the ben-
efits of foreign investment.

The reverse is true: the people of Darfur are seeing for-
eign investment used against them in the form of janjaweed
militia attacks funded by their own government.

With 80 percent of Sudanese citizens working as farmers
and no government spending on social welfare, divestment
targeted at the oil industry and any company solely operat-
ing in Khartoum will have a disproportionate effect on the
Sudanese government. .

Most importantly, the Sudanese government is paying
attention to the movement. In March 2006, the Sudanese
ambassador to the U.S. wrote an open letter urging
Americans to reconsider their initiatives. One week later,
The New York Times ran an 8-page, $929,000 Sudan-paid
advertisement encouraging foreign investment in their
country.

These two actions illustrate that, while the Khartoum

he the enuptiwex X now feels

(Pair eecbkernd plans so sprang awry}
Tis heart congeals to tempered stect
Auwl resentment becomes his ally.
While tring these thoughis te conceal,
A happy couple he does spy ~

The lad enticing Oa lass to squeal

As be cans his hare along her thigh;
Acc in these ghtees that © steals,

This haze. of yearrung ws which X resides
Serves ne greater purpose, than to provde -
An oerasinn te wallow mi his wounded pride;
Tis & pocutless reachon that dees self-divide:
Mocking the meat on whic st abides

By tearing the person to. proces mide.

This feverish walonsy dea ollers cold comfort
Makes civy tee fourth top as we iner the court.

WEDNESDAY, MaArcH 19, 2008 9

Davidson

regime has been unresponsive to political action by the inter-
national community, they understand the implications of
divestment and economic pressure.

In the end, the trustees of
Davidson College have a legal
and fiduciary responsibility to pro-
tect and improve the college
endowment.

Back at home, Davidson students who have raised the
issue of divestment to our administration have been assured
that we do not own holdings in companies within our inde-
pendently managed investment portfolios. But this pledge
cannot be extended to our significantly larger commingled
accounts and mutual funds.

In the end, the trustees of Davidson College have a legal
and fiduciary responsibility to protect and improve the col-
lege endowment.

However, the situation in Darfur presents the rare circum-
stance of universal agreement that these particular crimes
against humanity are inconsistent with the stated purposes of
honor and integrity of many reputable institutions.

With demand created by other states, universities, and reli-
gious organizations such as Presbyterian Church USA, alter-
native investment vehicles and Sudan-free financial indices
are abundant.

Even if Davidson College deems divestment from Sudan
to be detrimental to the College endowment, as a morally
inclined institution whose primary purpose is to develop
humane instincts and sentiments, it should be our duty to
voice our opinion as shareholders to our money managers
and mutual funds.

Justin Eusebio ’09 is a Biology and Anthropology major
Contact

from Lincolnwood Til. him at

jueusebio@davidson.edu.

ALITTE VIN i2)
