10 THE DavIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Women’s Soccer falls to UNC-Wilmington |

JOHN MorGANn
Staff Writer

The ’Cats wrapped up their non-
conference schedule last Sunday with a
dissappointing loss to UNC-Wilmington 2-0.
Unbeaten in its first five games, the team
must erase this two-game skid heading into
conference play this weekend.

Sunday’s matchup against the in-state
rivals turned quickly against the home team

at Alumni Stadium. In the seventh minute, a
misdirected Wildcat clear landed on the foot
of a Wilmington player, who beamed a shot
from the top of the box. The rocket sailed
beyond the reach of Loring Ward 710, who
started in her second consecutive game this
season.

While only four Wilmington shots were -
on target, two of them managed to scrape
the back of the net. Those scores were all
they would need. A quarter of the way into

Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 led Davidson with three shot attemps, but the Wildcat offense
was unable to find the back of the net in Sunday’s 2-0 home loss to UNCW.

’Cats play in fall tennis events

Carrie LeiGH Evans

Staff Writer

Men’s tennis continued their fall season
at the University of Georgia for the 2008
Southern Intercollegiate while the women’s
team opened their season in the College of
Charleston Tournament.

Over 30 teams were in attendance,
including number one ranked Furman, for
the Southern Intercollegiate.

Brandon Byrd ’09, Eric Noble ’10, Carter
Braxton ’11 and Calum Gee °12 made up
this weekend’s roster. The team dropped
early matches and struggled to pick it up the
consolation round. Gee, the team’s freshman
recruit from Scotland, however, picked up a
win (6-1, 7-5) for the team in the consolation
round, defeating Oliver Smith of ABAC.

The men will celebrate homecoming
weekend with an Alumni Match this Saturday
at 1 p.m. They will continue the season at the
Georgia Teach Invitational October 3.

The women also retumed home with
mixed success.

Stephani Synn °12 advanced to the
championship round of the BI! singles,
falling to Keely Mulligan ’11 of College of
Charleston, 6-2, 6-2. Samantha Galainena
*11 fell early in the same bracket. Teresa
Wang °10 placed 10th in Al singles and
Michele Fanney ’09 placed 12th. Alison
Ruah ’1] managed a sixth place finish in the
Al flight while Molly McDevitt ’12 placed
11th. Molly Verlin °12 placed seventh in B2
singles and Katharine Dicconson °12 fell to
the bracket champion in the first round and
placed ninth.

In doubles play, Wang and Synn placed
second, falling to the Dowse and Mulligan of
the host team in the A2 championship. Ruah
and Galainea faced Evans and Newman
of CofC, in the B1 championship, and also
placed second. Verlin and Dicconson placed
sixth in the same bracket. Fanney and
McDevitt fell in the quarterfinals of the Al
flight and picked up 4th in the consolation
bracket.

The Wildcat’s season will continue at the
ITA regionals in late October.

the second half, the visiting adversaries
capitalized on a penalty shot in the box for
insurance to put the game at 2-0.

Throughout the game, the "Cats managed
as many shots as their opponents—even
twice as many on target—but they could not
open up the best opportunities on defense.
This problem has plagued them over the past
few games and will provide a major focus for
practice this week.

“Where we’ve got to get a little more
efficient and effective is in the positions we
have, turning the possessions we have into
goal-scoring opportunities,’ head coach
Greg Ashton said.

The scoring drought is not so much an
issue with personnel as it is with composure —
and experience working as team. “We’ve
got the players to do it—I think we’ll gain
some more confidence, and get in some more
players,” Ashton said.

Embarking on a stretch of conference
matchups, the ’Cats will rely on healthy
competition within the team to maintain
confidence and intensity. At the doldrums of
the schedule, each game requires constant,
individual focus.

“In the middle of the season when we
have a lot of games going on, it’s hard not
to overlook another game,” Kyri Bye-Nagel
"10 said. “You know if you have a really
important game on Sunday, but a not-so-
important game Friday, you still don’t want
to overlook [the Friday game].”

This weekend, fortunately, this issue will
not be a factor as the "Cats face two very
important challenges. The SoCon schedule
kicks off Thursday night at Furman and then
they play again Sunday at Wofford.

The matchup at 7 p.m. Friday night pits
the ’Cats against the Furman Paladins, who
are coming off an impressive victory against
Clemson’s ACC competition.

Still riding the energy of last year’s
SoCon title and NCAA tournament berth, the
Paladins currently boast a 4-2-1 record. The
*Cats may seem to have an advantage based
on their performance against Kennesaw—
State Furman dropped a 3-1 decision to the
team while Davidson managed a 1-1 tie.

That performance differential does not
apply to Sunday’s game against Wofford
since the Terriers also tied Kennesaw 1-1.

Their current record is not nearly as
impressive, at 1-4-3. Last year, the Terriers
lost to Davidson in the SoCon tournament,
guaranteeing an intense game as they seek
revenge at home.

After such a tough and wide-ranging
non-conference schedule, the ’Cats gauge
their strengths and weaknesses with only
their conference foes ahead.

Emphasizing the opportunities up front,
the team must maintain an aggressive attack
to capitalize on scoring opportunities.
Strategy aside, the players are optimistic.

“Y’m really excited about this year,” Bye-
Nagel said. “I think we could go all the way.
We definitely have the potential.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

‘The women’s olleyball team. | traveled.

ae

; Buffalo, .NY: vot weekend tortake a.

A §
z
%

giecond. game featured m

“Davidson continued 6 lead for the r rest of
-the match. Lindsay Paroczai’s:’09 final kill
“put the match away for the ¥ Wildcats with a
Ainal score 25:1 :
An Saturday, the. Wildcats continued
their tournament play by taking on the High
‘Point University Panthers. The match was’
‘close, going into five sets but the Panthers
‘ultimately took the win 3-2, 2225 2206
A5-2125-15,15- “Qo gee
_ Peele had anotheri impressive set leading
notching 16 kills for the Wildcats. while:
Perzinski and Madison Benedict also turned
‘in double-digit kill performances,. Hayley,
Lawson.711 had 41. assists for the’ Cats to
go along: with 15. digs. Jennifer Chamble
added 25 digs and Neale managed 11.
«Later that afternoon, the "Cats t took
“on the host team, University. ‘of Buffalo.
Davidson fell. short; losing inthree: sets,’
(25-17,,25-22, 25-20). Perzinksi led the.
Wildcats. with {1. kills. and-nine digs in
the losing. effort,, and her ‘performance:
throughout the weekend earned her a spot.
on the All-Tournament team, «| 2
Davidson (458, opens # Southern
Conference play this week with three home
games and will look: to- get of to a fast.
sstart. The Wildcats host Georgia Southern
-and 7, pan, tonight and then Samford and
Chattanooga visit Belk Arena this weekend
for a pair of SoCon games,

“ oo mR ...
am ee . “id wh. o> Ae: ;
ildcat Roundup
4
pape ene © -*
Football Field Hockey Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
(1-1) (2-6) (1-6-1) (2-2-3) (4-8) Cross C ountry
Results: Results: Results: Results Results 9/20 Wi Results ; itaional
Bye 9/20 vs. Longwood L 2-1 9/19 vs. UAB 2-2 9/21 vs. UNCW L2-0 9/19 vs, St. Francis W 3-0 Me de Plas arona.
9/21 vs. Wake Forest L 4-1 9/21 vs. Wintrhop L 1-0 - 9/20 vs. High Point L 2-3 Ww. en- Bed Pls,
9/20 @Buffalo L 0-3 omen oraiiace
Next Up: Next Up: Next Up: Next Up: Next Up:
9/27 vs. Jacksonville 9/26 vs. Catawba 9/27 @ South Carolina 9/25 @ Furman Next Up: 10/4G “Lo P- ile C
9/28 vs. Monmouth 9/28 @ Wofford 9/24 vs. Ga. Southern Comat Classic
Notes: Coming off a bye week, Notes: After failing to capture 9/27 vs. Samford Ouniry Miassic
the Cats are hosting PFL rival Notes: After dropping two a win in the Nike Invitational Notes: The ’Cats begin SoCon 9/28 vs. Chattanooga Notes:

Jacksonville in a Homecoming
game this Saturday at 1 p.m.

games over the weekend, the

*Cats are looking to get back
on the right track with wins

against Catawba and Mon-

opponent South Carolina this
Saturday.

mouth.

Tournament, the Wildcats look play with tough road tests this
to get aroad win against SEC —_ week at Furman and Wofford.

Notes: The Wildcats host three
SoCon opponents this week
as they look to start strong in
conference play.

Tom Divinnie ’10 led the men
with a fifth place finish while
Caroline Sanker ’09 finished
fourth for the women in the
Wintrhop Inviational.
