12

TS

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Wildcats secure SoCon South, break old record

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

In front of a national television audience, the Wildcats bol-
stered their NCAA tournament hopes with a 75-66 victory
over UNCG last night at Belk Arena. Stephen Curry ’10 led
all scorers with 30 points including six three-pointers and
Andrew Lovedale ’10 also added 14 points to pace the ’Cats.
With the victory the team improved to 20-6 overall and 18-0
in conference play. The 18 Southern Conference wins is a new
league record.

Stephen Curry ’10 scored 30 points with six made
three-pointers against UNCG on Tuesday evening

Davidson jumped out to a 19-7 lead in the opening minutes
and staved off a series of Spartan runs and maintained a five-
point lead late in the first half. The ‘Cats used an 8-0 run of
their own to close the half and secure a 43-29 halftime advan-
tage. The Wildcats shot a blistering 63.3 percent from the field
in the first half and finished the night shooting an impressive
57.4 percent.

UNCG crawled within 53-47 midway through the second
half, but a 14-5 Davidson run pushed the ‘Cats lead back to 15

with 7:34 to play in the game. The Wildcats held the
Spartans at bay for the remainder of the contest and led by
double digits until UNCG’s final basket made it 75-66.

The Wildcats put together another inspired defensive per-
formance forcing 23 turnovers and committing 16 steals.
Max Paulus-Gosselin ’09 led the ‘Cats with seven steals to
go along with eight points and five rebounds. Jason
Richards ’08 also added eight points, eight rebounds, and
four steals for Davidson.

Reigning SoCon Player of the Year Kyle Hines had 18
points and 11 rebounds for UNCG in the losing effort.
Hines’ 11 rebounds made him just the sixth player in NCAA
history to notch 2,000 points, 1,000 rebounds and 300
blocks for his career. He joined an elite group that includes
Derrick Coleman (Syracuse), Tim Duncan (Wake Forest),
Pervis Ellison (Louisville), Alonzo Morning (Georgetown)
and David Robinson (Navy).

Last night’s game was the second match-up between the
Spartans and Wildcats in the past week. A week ago the
‘Cats rallied from 17 points down in the second half to
claim an 83-78 victory on the road in Greensboro. Curry
posted a career-high 41 points to propel Davidson to the
dramatic win.

The Spartans opened up the game on a 9-2 run and steadi-
ly added to that lead throughout the first half. Davidson
trailed by 20 with just over a minute to go in the first half,
but the Wildcats closed with a 5-0 run to cut their deficit to
52-37 at the break. Davidson’s defense did not seem its
normal self in the first half without the presence of forward
Thomas Sander ’08, who was held out of the game with a
back injury.

In the second half, UNCG continued to cling to their big
lead and led 60-43 with 17:11 remaining. At this point, the
“Cats responded with a furious rally. The Wildcats went on
a 22-5 run fueled in large part by Davidson’s prolific back-
court. Richards and Curry combined for 19 of the ‘Cats 22
points during the run. Richards finished the game with 16
points and six assists while Curry had seven rebounds to go
along with his 41 points.

With the score tied at 65 and less’ than ten minutes
remaining in the contest, the stage was set for a dramatic
finish. The two teams traded leads in the final minutes and
the Spartans held a 78-77 lead with just over a minute to
play. Richards returned the lead to the ’Cats on a conven-
tional three-point play in transition with 57 seconds left in

regulation.

The Wildcats held UNCG scoreless for the remainder of
the game and Curry sealed the 83-78 victory with a pair of
free throws in the final seconds. The win clinched the
Southern Conference South Division title for Davidson.

Between the two battles with the Spartans the ‘Cats
hosted Furman on Saturday in Belk Arena. Davidson
opened the game on a 19-0 run and never relented on their
way to an 86-51 victory. William Archambault ’10 had his
best game of the season and led all scorers with 28 points
on 11-14 shooting including five three-pointers.

The Wildcats’ defense suffocated Furman throughout
the afternoon and the Paladins did not make a field goal
until 12:06 mark of the first half. As a team the ’Cats
forced 16 turnovers and held the opposition to just 38 per-
cent shooting from the field. The 51 points allowed ties for
the second-best effort of the season as Furman was also
held to 51 points in the teams’ first meeting on Jan. 16.

Curry added 26 points and five assists in the winning
effort while Richards contributed nine assists and seven
rebounds. Boris Meno ’08 provided another strong per-
formance off the bench with eight points and six rebounds.
Archambault’s offensive explosion was encouraging con-
sidering his recent offensive struggles. His scoring ability
will be key to the Wildcats’ success as postseason tourna-
ment play approaches in March.

With another week of impressive performances, Curry
was named SoCon Player of the Week for the fourth con-
secutive week on Monday. He has now won the award
eight times in his career and is currently fifth in the nation
in scoring at just under 26 ppg.

The victories extended a number of winning streaks for
the l’Cats. They have now won 16 in a row overall, the sec-
ond-longest winning streak in the country behind top-
ranked Memphis. In addition, the Wildcats have won 28
SoCon regular season games which is the longest such
streak since West Virginia reeled off 42 straight in confer-
ence: in the 1950s. Last night’s win was also the team’s
16th straight win at Belk Arena.

Davidson is now 30-3 in the month of February since the
2003-2004 season. They will look to continue this success
on Friday night when they travel down I-77 for a national-
ly televised (ESPN2, 7:00 p.m.) contest with Winthrop.
The game is part of ESPNU’s Bracketbusters event being
held this weekend.

Tennis upsets nationally ranked Brown Squad

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Last weekend the Davidson men’s tennis team defeated
two fierce opponents, beating Presbyterian on Saturday and
Brown on Sunday, a team recently a nationally ranked oppo-
nent. This win is a landmark for the program; it is the first
time this group of players has beaten a ranked team.
Davidson only allowed its opponents to win one out of 14
possible points and improved on the season to a record of 5-
2.

Against Presbyterian, Davidson took all of the seven team
points to complete a clean sweep of the competition. The
match began with another impressive doubles win by Flaviu
Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09, improving the duo’s No.
1 doubles record to 4-1. Both Simihaian and Jaffee went on
to win their respective No. 1 and No. 2 singles matches.

Scott Myers ’10 only dropped one game to his opponent,
winning his No. 6 singles match 6-0, 6-1 to improve his sea-
son singles record to 5-1. Eric Noble ’10 also played impres-

he
£

Player of the Week

Mercedes Robinson

Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Mansfield, Texas

Robinson produced two double-double performances this week,
averaging 18.5 points and 11 rebounds per game. For leading her

team to two SoCon victories, Robinson received SoCon Player of
the Week honors, the first for women’s basketball this season.

sively in No. 3, only allowing his opponent two games in a
6-1, 6-1 singles victory. To complete the perfect perform-
ance, Walker Lyons ’11 secured his fourth win in the last
five matches by a 6-0, 6-1 final.

On Sunday, Davidson remained undefeated at home by
defeating Brown, a team recently ranked 75th in the nation.
Davidson started off strong by capturing the doubles point
with wins by the No. 1 tandem of Simihaian and Jaffee and
the No. 3 duo of Lyons and Sam Burns ’10. Three of these
doubles winners (Simihaian, Lyons, Burns) went on to win
their singles matches. After dropping their first sets, both
Noble and Lyons prevailed to win in three sets. Myers
improved his team best singles record to 6-1 with his stellar
6-0, 6-2 victory over Brown’s Charlie Posner.

“We’re playing with the belief that we belong on the court
with anyone,” Lyons said. “We have the confidence to lose a
point, game or a set and still believe we’re going to win the
match.”

Davidson begins a five-game road trip when they play
their first SoCon opponent, The Citadel, Saturday at 2 p.m.

ae

Scott Myers ’09 picked up to key victories in No. 6
singles to extend his winning streak to six straight

PLAY O! OF THE WEEK

Som-Pimpong Sets New Triple Jump Record

Already Davidson’s record holder in the event, Kwame Som-Pimpong ’09 bested

his previous mark of 13.69 meters with a jump of 14.06 meters in the triple jump

event at last weekend’s Tiger Invitational at Clemson University. Som-Pimpong’s
jump was good enough for a seventh-place finish in the event.
