THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcTOBER 8, 2008

“Willkommen,”
Oktoberfest!

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Break out the lederhosen and steins —
it’s time for Oktoberfest.

But before you tap the kegs and cook
up some frankfurters, here’s a bit of history
behind everybody’s favorite beer fest.
Each year in late September, citizens from
Munich, Bavaria, a large province located in
southeastern Germany, hold a 16-day festival,
which has grown to be one of the largest
cultural celebrations in the world. Attracting
more than six million people to Munich, and
millions more to various global cities hosting
their own versions of the official event,
Oktoberfest celebrations pay rightful honor
to the German culture with plenty of good
company and spirits.

The first “Oktoberfest” was not actually a
festival, but a public commemoration of the
marriage between Crown Prince Ludwig and
Princess Therese of Saxe-Hildburghausen.
And although their wedding fell on Oct. 12,
they issued a festival of horse races, beer,
music, food and dancing five days later.

Despite its current status as a convivial
week full of friends, food and beer, over
the years, the evolution of Oktoberfest has
been anything but smooth. In 1812, two
short years after its incepfion, Oktoberfest
was cancelled due to Bavaria’s involvement
with the tumultuous Napoleonic Wars, and
then reinstated four years later. Soon after,
Munich became the official managing city
for the festival, and in 1850, established
Oktoberfest as an annual celebration.

An outbreak of cholera in 1853 caused
the festival to be cancelled, and then again
in 1866 and 1870, due to the pesky Austro-
Prussian and Franco-Prussian Wars. The
country’s health still suffering, another
cholera outbreak in 1873 mandated yet
another cancellation. Then came the war
years in the early 20th century. Needless to
say, by the end of the 19th century, the city
called for a re-organization plan.

Up to this point in time, the main festival
games consisted of skittles, a target game
akin to modern bowling, dancing and beer
booths. Wanting to aggrandize the festival,
larger venues were sought and beer booths
became beer tents and halls. Then, 1877 saw
the first Entry of the Oktoberfest Staff and
Breweries: a horse-drawn parade displaying
all the breweries present at Oktoberfest, which
occurs the first Saturday of the festival.

“Oktoberfestbier,” as it is called in
German, was first brewed in 1872 by the
Spaten brewery in the “Marzen” style, which
produces a dark, full-bodied and bitter beer.
This also gave rise to the festival’s first
official Wiesn Marzen beer, which has been
replaced by the lighter Bavarian pale Helles.

Oktoberfest beer-brewing is actually
more culture than recreation, involving quite
a long production process. The Oktoberfest
beers are actually an outgrowth of the spring
brews, these are the “Marzen,” or March
beers, which are put aside in ice-filled caves or
cellars for the summer. The leftover Marzen
is finished off at the festival. Obviously, the
beers are well-aged, sometimes up to four
months, and have an alcohol content of five
to six percent.

Today, the festival relies on the tried and
true participation of traditional breweries,
which include Augustiner, Hacker-Pschorr,
Hofbrau, Lowenbrau, Paulaner and Spaten.
And of the 1,300 current breweries in
Germany, 14 of them, including the most
prominent six, erect beer tents dedicated to
that particular brewery and sell the ever-

See Germany, page 6

ARTS

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

I plan on sleeping through my entire fall
break.

Maybe Ill wake up long enough to watch
a movie or read a book (for pleasure!), but
generally, my time off will be nothing but
relaxation on the Davidson campus.

For those of you who are also sticking
around the Davidson area, there’s plenty you
can do to erase the mental stress of life on
campus and rejuvenate your mind and body
for the final eight weeks of first semester.

About two hours to the east of our small
town lies Asheville. This city is loaded with
fall foliage, pumpkin patches and plenty
of cozy, inexpensive activities for you to
experience all of the autumn season.

Hike at the DuPont State Forest through
colored leaves to the scenic waterfalls of the
area, or travel on foot, bicycle or car along
the Blue Ridge Parkway that winds around
Grandfather Mountain for some fresh air.

Spend a day in the nearby Biltmore
Estates with extensive shopping centers,
restaurants, gardens and an award-winning
winery. Looking for that cultured city feel?
Plenty of coffee shops and art galleries add to
the authentic, artsy feel of Asheville.

Your options are limitless if you plan on
spending the night. Whether it’s a mountain
cabin, bed and breakfast or a four-star hotel,
Asheville can accommodate your needs.
Another option for this weekend: Charlotte.
We all know that it takes less than a half hour
to travel to our nearby metropolis, but most
of us have never gotten the chance to see the
city. Now is the perfect opportunity to take
24 hours of your break to experience what

i

SET

—

ee

Buble rocks in Raleigh

es

ea
we i.

Asheville’s Biltmore Estates provide a great fall escape with shopping, dining and

beautiful fall scenery.

Charlotte has to offer!

The U.S. National Whitewater Rafting
center allows you and your friends to raft,
kayak, canoe, climb, bike or hike, personally
or individually. Any on-the-go enthusiast
would enjoy time in the world’s largest
artificial whitewater river, and those of any
skill level can find themselves alongside
Olympic trainers in this fitness center.

Interested in another kind of thrill?
Discover your desire in Carowinds theme
park, located just outside Charlotte. The park
offers rides, shows, attractions and best of
all, Scarowinds, the seasonal haunted thrill
featuring plenty of spooks to get you ready

Michael Bublé’s show last Friday proved a wonderful experience for many audience
members. The concert took place at Raleigh’s RBC Center.

Patricia REID
Staff Writer

Recent economic turmoil and music
unexpectedly collided at Raleigh’s RBC
Center Friday night.

Addressing the eight-thousand adoring
fans who packed the arena, Michael Bublé
expressed a heartfelt thanks to all of those in
attendance. In a somber tone, Bublé explained
that he appreciated such a significant turnout,
especially in the midst of difficult economic
times.

A serious air filled the room as Bublé
kept speaking; the audience was hushed. The
normally spunky singer’s grave manner was
surprising, and only after he had thanked the
audience another time, promising to return
their loyalty by coming back to Raleigh, did
the audience burst into applause.

Naturally 7, a group from New York,
opened. for Bublé. Their. “vocal. play”
performance seemed a strange fit for Bublé’s

smooth crooning. No doubt the group
displayed a tremendous amount of talent;
their ability to mimic instruments was indeed
unique. Naturally 7’s urban style seemed out
of place.

As soon as Bublé hit the stage, though, a
charge of energy surged through the arena.
His charismatic persona and witty sense of

humor set the tone for an entertaining evening. ,

Bublé’s interaction with the audience ran the
gamut from cracking risqué jokes and kissing
exuberant fans to reaching out to “the guys
who were dragged to the concert by their
girlfriends.”

From an impromptu catwalk competition
between himself and a band member, to a
staged walk-off, Bublé invoked humor into
his show.

He sang a wide range of songs, including
many favorites. The audience erupted into
cheers in response to the opening notes of

for Halloween. The Carowinds Theater, for
example, is presenting the adult-oriented
horror musical “Dead Awakening.” There are
also plenty of haunted zones and mazes for
those who aren’t afraid to be scared.

Additionally, Charlotte provides dining
options that cater to all tastes. Find seafood at
GW Fins in uptown Charlotte, fondue at The
Melting Pot in Midtown or a casual Italian
dinner at Portofinos at Park Selwyn. Take a
break from Commons or the Union, grab a
friend and head out for some delicious food
in the city!

See Fall Break, page 6

Dead People.’ Watch You” “Shower?”
oworld-ren wh author and medium Cone

aumerushed ice when I read what se cding
to Bertoldi, our deceased relatives. are up
tor Immediately, 1 rather. troubling questions
Sprang into my mind, such as “Is Grandpa
‘really vatching me take a a shower? 7

been the ousultant fete matter :
te mbei :
