10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

Men’s Tennis ranking makes school history

By ZacH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

After winning all three of its matches this week, the
Davidson men’s tennis team reached a program imilestone by
securing a ranking of 75th in the NCAA. This accomplish-

a

Sam Burns ’10 is now a perfect 4-0 when playing
from the No. 4 singles position this season.

ment marks the first time in school history that Davidson
has secured a national ranking in men’s tennis.

. “This ranking and winning season record proves that our
success is due to our team chemistry rather than any indi-
vidual talent” captain Philip Compeau ’08 said.

Before the rankings came out on Tuesday, the. Wildcats
faced off against Coastal Carolina University. Davidson
shut out Coastal Carolina 7-0, only dropping one match in

‘This ranking and winning season
record proves that our success is
due to our team chemistry rather
than any individual talent”
Philip Compeau ’08

doubles. Arie Hefter 08 won his second-straight match giv-
ing him his third singles win on the season. Captain Flaviu
Simihaian 08 improved his No.1 singles record to 7-6.
Ethan Jaffee returned to the No. 2 spot after sitting out last
match to improve his No: 2 singles record to 6-7.

The Wildcats continued their streak Thursday with an
impressive 6-1 victory over SoCon rival UNC Greensboro
and secured their national ranking.

Despite dropping the double’s point to begin the match,
Davidson dominated the singles match-ups. Simihaian
added another No. 1 singles win to extend his winning
streak to three matches. Scott Myers ’09 improved his team-
best record to 13-2 after a win at No. 5 singles in his sixth-
straight singles win. Eric Noble ’10 and Walker Lyons 711
registered wins by identical scores of 6-3, 6-4 in No. 2 and
No. 3 singles respectively while Arie Hefter °1] fought for
his third straight win in the No. 6 singles spot.

After being ranked 75th, Davidson defended its posistion
with a win against Georgia Southern University 5-2, which
improved the team’s SoCon record to 5-1. After dropping
the doubles point, the Wildcats seized a win with five points
in the singles column including Hefter’s fifth straight match
win.

Top seed in

your career bracket

BusinessWeek ranks Deloitte #1 in “50 Best Places
to Launch a Career,” September 2007. Join our team.

R To discover your opportunities with Deloitte and find out why
@a| BusinessWeek ranked us the best place to start a career, text
“Deloitte” to 78573 or visit www.deloitte.com/us/LaunchYourC areer.

Deloitte.

Audit .,Tax. Consulting . Financial Advisory.

As used in this document, ’Deloitte” means Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Please see wwew.deloitte.com/us/about
for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries.

Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Copyright © 2008 Deloitte Development LLC. All rights reserved.

“We are all playing as a unit, a single entity, not individ-
uals” Hefter said.

The men’s team will play at home against Elon on April
2 at 2 p.m.

The women’s tennis team, like its male counterpart,
keeps playing solid tennis. Davidson defeated Georgia
Southern to begin its SoCon campaign 4-0 for the fourth
straight year, but the team fell in a close match Sunday
against the College of Charleston Cougars 4-3 to halt the
winning streak.

On Saturday, the Davidson Women’s Team captured a
victory over Georgia Southern by a score of 6-1. Because
of weather conditions, both the coach for Davidson and
Georgia Southern agreed to play singles matches first.
Virginia Berry ”10, Michelle Fanney 09 and Meredith
Skeeters ’08 won in straight sets at the No. 2, 4, and 6
spots, respectively, to give Davidson a 3-0 lead.

Other players continued season long streaks to give the
Wildcats the edge.

Skeeters won her eleventh consecutive match and
fourth-straight SoCon match. Teresa Wang ’10 and Kelsey
Linville 08 both added singles wins to grab the Davidson
victory.

Returning to the lineup after battling an injury, Alison
Rauh *11 teamed up with Kim Whelan 08 won their No.
3 doubles match improving the tandem’s record to 6-1 on
the year.

Unfortunately, the team’s four-game win streak was
snapped in a close 4-3 bout against the College of
Charleston.

Davidson lost the doubles point by losing all three
matches 8-2, 8-4 and 8-5. Wang, Linville and Whelan each
secured their singles’ matches, but losses at the two, three
and four positions split the singles’ points and gave
Charleston the slim but decisive lead.

The loss by Skeeters at No. 5 ended her remarkable 11-
match winning streak.

Davidson will play Elon on April 2 at 3 p.m. for their
next match before returning home on the 3rd to play
UNCG and Boston University in preparation for the fast
approaching SoCon Tournament.

