6 Tre Davipsonian

a ee
Bareilles, from page 5

comes frenetic, channeling other artists such
as John Mayer, Jason Mraz, Jack Johnson,
Maroon Five and even Alicia Keys; however,
Bareilles still delivers an all-around satisfy-
ing performance, with lush backing vocals
and an array of acoustic and electrical instru-
ments.

About mid-album, the mood interestingly
shifts to a deeper and more heady tone. “Ve-

Arts & LIVING

gas” and “Morningside,” both pensive and
seductive, are reminiscent of work by the
queen of meloncholy, Fiona Apple. Bareilles
continues down a serious vein with the nos-
talgic “City,” only to round out the album
with a once-more laid-back, pleasant ballad
“Gravity.” One can even detect some rich
jazz notes in “Many the Miles,” which kicks
up the beat toward the song’s end.

Featured on piano in every song save
“Many Miles,” Bareilles rocks out on versa-

Singer/songwriter Sarah Bareilles firmly established herself in the music world with

her album “Little Voice.”

Dance, from page 5

phasized the cultural connection between the
dancers and the music. Bandanas and flan-
nel shirts set the stage for the western saloon.
The bright colors worn by the dancers of the
group Salsa performance created a beauti-
ful image as the dancers moved across the
stage.

As impressive as the dances were, they
would not have been such a success if it
were not for the dramatic light work by the

technical staff. One performance began with
only the silhouettes of the dancers and then
transformed into a projection of their shad-
ows. The lights in this dance emphasized the
dancers’ movements and added an element of
the unknown.

In “Shape of My Heart,” “Tango Pas-
sion,” “Havana Nights” and “Got Salsa,”
the lighting enhanced the harmonious, and
sometimes sexual, connection between the
dancers.

A moon surrounded by stars was project-

DIA hosts film festival

FELIX FABINY
Guest Writer

Tired of watching “Mean Girls” and
“Legally Blonde?” Davidson International
Association (DIA) is hosting the Second
International Film Festival at Davidson and
screening some of the best international films
of our decade.

The Festival began on Sunday with the
screening of “In the Mood for Love,” a 2000
Hong Kong film by Wong Kar-Wai. After a
brief introduction to the film by Chinese pro-
fessor Vivian Shen, the audience entered the
lyrical world of Chow and So, the protago-
nists of the work.

The Festival in the 900 Room continues
on Nov. 12 at 8 p.m. with the screening of
“Once,” an Irish production about an aspir-
ing musician and a young Czech immigrant
that the Chicago Tribune’s critics called “the

best music film of our generation.”

On Sunday, Nov. 16, two internation-
al masterpieces will hit the Davidson Big
Screen. At 5:30 p.m., DIA will screen the Os-
car-nominated “Water,” an Indian film about
the plight of widows sent to an ashram in
Varanasi. Director Deepa Mehta’s vision of
the widow’s lives, like Fazal Sheikh’s “Be-
loved Daughters” exhibition in the Van Ev-
ery/Smith Galleries, presents the unspoken
suffering of women that are often unknown.

At 8 p.m. Nimrod Antal’s 2003 cult cre-
ation, “Kontroll,” will take viewers into dark
and enigmatic imagination of Budapest’s
metro ticket inspectors. Set entirely in the
Hungarian capital’s subway system, “Kon-
troll” will take you on an unforgettable ride.
Although the films are anchored in seem-
ingly alien cultures, they all bring to life uni-
versal tales of love, loneliness and intrigue
— for free.

W ; as Py) . 7 f 4 P ™% ate ~ i ™ 7 : vy N y a ‘
yy €e ~: 6 = ce SLL I i ONd ury ae y .
im's career-long track record of achieving tosser D, “Sandy” Carnegie, has spent almost 30

successful resalts for his clients has earned years representing clients who have suffered
him recognition throughout NC and among his substantial injuries due 19 another person's negligence

peers in the lepal field nationwide, He has been named
to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently §
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of j
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Coart of Appeals Judge, Jim Pullers {
a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the — §
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional {
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, 2
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or cximdnal
conduct of others.

Jim and bis wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church, A
member of the Lives Club. Jim also serves oa the
Doards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidsoe Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recenily appointed to the Town Planning Board,

APPEALS + BANRRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

- 2 Ean +

Exceptional Adorneys.... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 * (704) 892-1699 » wwve.mcintoshlawfirm.com

or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Caroling and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attomney,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as @
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, be is a member
; Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & AM. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE « WILLS & TRUSTS

poe + 7

tility and a Fender Rhodes in “Morningside”
and even picks up an acoustic guitar in “One
Sweet Love.”

Beautiful, independent yet demure, her
songs address what it means to be a modern
female artist. Her corpus has a consuming
quality, and her words poignantly lyrical, yet
she maintains a definite coolness and detach-
ment.

Bareilles’s music lacks the frustration
that can accompany any stage in a relation-
ship, although several songs are laced with
disappointment. Overwhelmingly, however,
her music gives one a sense of grounded
self-awareness. In “One Sweet Love,” for
example, she sings, “The time that I’ve tak-
en, I pray is not wasted.” The song shifts the
emphasis from falling in love to remaining
true to yourself.

For those who carefully follow Bareilles,
however, there is a caveat emptor: some of
the songs featured on the album were pre-
recorded off her 2004 “Careful Confessions”
album. However, the most recent versions
are vastly improved, more intimate and con-
tain new instrumental work.

All in all, the album is a success. If you
are looking for the newest revolution in
piano pop, well, this album will not fit the
bill. But if you are in the mood for something
well-crafted and bitter-sweet, then “Little
Voice” offers more than most pop albums.

ed onto the curtain during “Havana Nights.”
This created a strong mood for the rest of the
dance. The dancers in “Control It Gal” uti-
lized strobe lights to make their Reggaeton
movements seem even faster.

Throughout the performance, avid and
enthusiastic encouragement erupted from the
crowd as students cheered on their friends.

“The show had so much energy around
it,” Berry said. “It [was] very exciting.” With
the dancing, music, costumes and lights, I
could not agree more.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

cado sushi roll, topped with white,
: Fuji Roll)

Ce eer

1X dollar

AYP yyrqhViyAn
aye eT

