THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcTOBER 22, 2008

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

“The Duchess” opens with the image of
Georgiana Spencer, played by Keira Knight-
ley, confidently walking into the sunlight.
The camera follows her from behind, and the
audience does not see Knightley’s face for
nearly a minute.

By beginning with this scene, director
Saul Dibbs coyly introduces a central mes-
sage of his film: Georgiana is not one who
follows, but one who leads.

The film chronicles the married life of
Spencer, who marries William, the Duke of
Devonshire (Ralph Fiennes) at the age of
seventeen.

Now, Georgiana Spencer will forever
be known as the Duchess of Devonshire.
Knightley is no stranger to period films. Au-
diences may remember her from the “Pirates
of the Caribbean” trilogy, “King Arthur,”
“Pride and Prejudice” and “Atonement.”

In all these earlier films, Knightley finds
a comfortable stride and convincingly por-
trays women of the past.

Her performance in “The Duchess” is no
exception. Despite the tight confines of her

*Pextromance Hall. ‘Additional performances
-will be held Thursday at-the same time, as
well as Friday and. Saturday: ate8:15 p.m.
The show will close. with a matinee on Sun:
day at 2:00 p.m. epee

the Union information desk: for the price of.
86 for students; $9 for faculty/staff, $11 for

‘gion. 3%

et ee

Knightley’ S prowess evident in ‘Duchess’ Origins ‘of

costume’s corset, Knightley delivers a stun-
ning performance.

Knightley’s stage presence inspires won-
der. Though many scenes do show her face
alone in the shot, there are several where she
shares the screen with other actors. In these
scenes, however, it is hard to look at the oth-

ers; Knightley’s performance compels the
viewer and makes it difficult to turn away.
This ability to draw attention was also an
important characteristic of Georgiana, and
Knightley clearly has the skill mastered. In

See Duchess, page 6

rttaarest ee

Kiera Knightley plays Georgiana Spencer in Saul Dibbs’ s new film.

‘Seventy Days in Hell,’ or the
Creative Reading seminar

Kevin SUNDEEN
Guest Writer

The idea for Prof. Alan Michael Parker’s
“Creative Reading” seminar comes. from an
1837 address Emerson gave at Harvard on
the American Scholar: “There is creative
reading as well as creative writing.”

This quotation was the genesis for a class
that seeks to blend the act of writing with the
act of reading in a dynamic process that chal-
lenges each student in both of those roles.

Our projects in this class have included
writing an autobiography or obituary using
only quotations from books found on each
student’s bookshelf, translating an imaginary
poem by an imaginary poet and writing a
critical discourse on it and the latest is an in-
teractive project to circulate an original text
using nontraditional vehicles of representa-
tion.

While the projects challenge us to think
creatively about reading and writing, a some-
times more daunting task is keeping up with
the “Artist’s Notebook.” Not a journal and
not a diary, this book is an ongoing documen-
tation of each student’s journey through the
creative process.

And it hasn’t been easy. In one class,
even Parker joked, “Maybe I should have
titled this course ‘Seventy Days in Hell.’”

When asked what the most difficult as-
signment of the course has been, Cailyn
Rood ’09 said, “I have so many things to
choose from! But, for me, it has been com-
ing up with original text to fill up our artist’s
book everyday. Asking us to create original
text every day is really challenging. Turing
the page and including visual artwork every
few days is really a left-brained thing to do,
but constructions like this really help me
structure the project.”

The artist’s book has become something
we care about because it offers insight into
the life of an artist, which, given three other
classes and extracurriculars such as The Da-
vidsonian, isn’t something we always have
time for. But it is something I enjoy at the
end, or the beginning, of the day.

Other class activities have included going
to Asheville to hear celebrated graphic novel-
ist and cartoonist Art Speigelman give a talk
about the history of comics at the Asheville
civic center.

See Seminar page 6

pasta spark
saucy debate

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

It was a battle of epic proportions be-
tween the Chinese and Italians, who fought
equally valiantly to defend the right to claim
pasta as their own invention.

Meeting in an alimentary courtrom in up-
town Charlotte, both sides presented compel-
ling historical and gustatory evidence in the
hope that the arbitrator, a judge appointed by
the North Carolina municipal court system,
and deciding jury, would award the custody
of pasta in their favor. The following is an
account of what transpired.

The courtroom was completely filled with
spectators, eager to hear the opening speech
by China’s defense attorney Mr. Nu, for why
pasta originated in China.

With deliberate steps, Mr. Nu slowly
mounted the podium and began, “Your Hon-
or, ladies and gentlemen of the jury and to all
those present, I wish to present the evidence
for pasta’s beginnings in China.”

Then, in a scholarly speech, the attorney
traced the history of the precarious noodle to
A.D. 1500, and particularly to the Shang Dy- -
nasty, where people dined on a simple rice
noodle bowl.

To this, Italian defense attorney Mr. Ver-
micelli acknowledged that while the people
of the Shang Dynasty probably did eat their
fair share of stringy carbohydrates, the pasta
which would lead to the modern noodle ac-
tually dated to the Etruscans, inhabiting the
Italian peninsula in the 11th century, who
Krafted [sic] their own durum wheat noodle.

In response, Mr. Nu rebutted.that, in fact,
Etruscan “pasta” had to be baked in an oven,
not boiled, and therefore could not be consid-
ered of true pasta lineage.

Called first to the witness stand was an
erudite university Arabic professor and food
critic, who affirmed that in the 8th century,
Arab invasions first introduced the dried
wheat noodle to Sicily.

Mr. Vermicelli, who in a post-debate in-
terview revealed himself as a fervent clas-
sicist, slyly concurred with etymological
evidence: the word “macaroni” derives from
the Sicilian term used for the early laborious
process of making pasta dough. He then pro-
vided further classical evidence: the Romans
apparently made “lagane,” an archaic version
of pasta made from flour and water.

Vermicelli cited Apicius’ cookbook en-
titled ‘De re coquina,’ which dates from the
3rd century A.D. Apicius’ description comes
undeniably close to the modern “lasagna.”
The Italians took this round.

Pasta aficionado and owner of Italian
restaurant “Marco Polo Raviolo,” Alfonzo
Fiorelli added another layer to the evidence
already baking in the heat of the debate.
Bearing witness as a closet Polo scholar,
Fiorelli argued that this early explorer was
the true bearer of pasta from Sicily to Venice
in A.D. 1292. Hence, he argued, an Italian
was responsible for pasta’s modern identity
and popularity.

Next to the stand, and possibly respon-
sible for turning the waters in the Italians’
favor, was Chinese noodle shop owner Dan
Fu.

In a rather haphazard and self-defeating
speech, Fu stated that since noodles were
made of wheat in Italy and rice in China,
it was perhaps too difficult to compare two

See Pasta page 6
