8

_ On-Campus Housing

oS oe oe - fe Op ER AO

*. Housing inequity exists on this campus. That is no great
‘secret; just ask. anyone living down the hill whether they

actually enjoy not having sinks in their small, cinder-block.

rooms. While some may enjoy the marginal benefit of
super-clusters, most students. would highly disagree with
Patty Perillo’s claim at a past SGA meeting that, .““There
have been no complaints from down the hill” What Perillo

may have meant was that there have been no officially:

lodged complaints from students, and if that is the ease, it:
is time for students to become more vocal about their sen-
timents. _ : ° :

-» The administration is by no means ignorant of the hous
ing situation, and.we are well aware that it can only tackle:
one project at.a time. However, if Duke is any example of
what to expect from future renovation projects, we remain
skeptical. When fall semester started, Duke’s renovations
were hurriedly finished. Now, the basement floods, paint

“jobs were shoddy, and there’ s no first-floor exit on one side
of the building, «> nme ate ae ot -

» Themed halls in Duke are another. way y this campus s has.
‘attempted to update housing options, but here too arises a
problem. If students apply to live in themed halls because
of the superior housing rather than commitment. to the
theme, it. eradicates the purpose behind having such
options. To some extent, there must be an improved
process from last year, when students were granted permis-
sion based on lottery numbers. The application process
needs to include accountability for genuine interest and
dedication. «2. s..2% .

Another issue raised by a student living: in Duke this year
“is the unity of the themed halls versus the Eco-house, In
‘order to truly build a community, one option may be to

offer themed houses instead of hall. In a dorm setting, the.

opportunity to form a cohesive group is less plausible..
Another oft-raised issue is the sub-free hall of First Be!
Let's be honest: not everyone signs up because of an abhor:
‘rence of loud, drunken hall mates. Belk’s highly appealing
location, rooms.and bathrooms are awarded to the highest”

lottery ‘number. If the purpose of this hall. is to provide

‘alternative living, that hardly ‘seems the way to accept

For those freshmen about to experience their first round
of housing lottery, make sure to be as informed as possible

“about your options. If you end up in the sophomore. slum:
vat least you'll be in good company.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

- Editor-in-Chief
_ Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors :
ichelle Jester & Katherine Miller
* News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore
J Perspectives Editors
"Laura Nan Oudenaren & Matt Petit... :
““hrts & Living Editors
is 2 iter Errington & Caroline Wood
: « “ Yowl Editors... “

ya

ar : Sports Editors Fake f
. a Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle fica
Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor /
Copy Editor .“”
Gretchen Hoffman ye
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

“The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
; by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
_ address all correspondences to: ‘The Davidsonian, P.O. Box:7182,
2 Davidson, NC 28035-7182, Phone (704) 894-2148. _

2 E-mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu.. Our offices are located in
- Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in °°
_ letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the,
_ views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 13, 2008

a.

DesPain’s s attacks on McCain irrational

ZACH BENNETT
Guest Columnist

Last week, Bobby DesPain joined the conservative popu-
lar press’ futile attacks on John McCain’s conservatism.
These attacks impugn McCain’s conservatism based not on
his overall record but on particular issues. Comprehensively
considering his record leads to different conclusions than
those of DesPain.

McCain often suffers criticism for his opposition to the
Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. When he ran for president
in 2000, he proposed a smaller tax reduction as an alternative
to President Bush’s because he believed, prophetically, that
the budget surplus would not sustain larger tax reductions.
Regardless of his proposal’s relative merits, he justified it on
conservative grounds.

Granted, McCain also argued against the tax cuts because
he believed they unfairly favored the wealthy. Although con-
servatives rightly find this class-based antagonism troubling,
it is inconsistent with his near-total opposition to tax increas-
es throughout his career. Consistent with this record, he has
pledged to make the Bush tax cuts permanent, reduce corpo-
rate taxes and require a three-fifths congressional majority to
raise taxes.

In contrast to many congressional Republicans, McCain
has a nearly impeccable history of advocating reductions in
government spending. Often lonely, he opposed the expan-
sion of the federal government under George Bush by voting
against the 2002 Farm Security Bill, the 2003 Medicare pre-
scription drug plan and the 2005 Highway Bill.

McCain has crusaded against pork-barrel spending and
subsidies. Even in Iowa, he pointedly expressed his opposi-
tion to ethanol subsidies. He pledged to veto any bill that
includes an earmark.

Because government spending benefits some, opposing it
requires political courage. In opposition to such spending,

~ McCain has demonstrated such courage; accordingly, he

addresses the insolvency of Social Security and Medicare.

McCain has also drawn criticism for his commitment to
combat global warming. Acknowledging the overwhelming
evidence substantiating global warming is neither conserva-
tive nor liberal. He supports cap-and-trade, which limits car-
bon emissions through the free market. Yet, McCain is no
fanatic; he supports nuclear power and opposed the Kyoto
Protocol.

Social conservatives also have irrational reservations about
McCain. He has a consistent pro-life voting record. Although

he opposes a Constitutional ban on homosexual marriage,
based on federalism, he supported such a ban to Arizona’s
constitution. Often criticized for his membership in the
“Gang of Fourteen,” that collaboration allowed for the con-
firmation of conservative jurists including Samuel Alito.

Conservatives also criticize McCain for supporting com-
prehensive immigration reform. Like his critics, he sets a
secure border as his priority. Unlike them, he comprehends
the impossibility of deporting 12 million illegal immigrants.
Consequently, he supports a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants. Though his position may not accord with con-
servatism, it does accord with reality.

On foreign policy, McCain has exhibited more courage
than most politicians. Soon after Saddam Hussein’s over-
throw, he recognized that America could not succeed in Iraq
without adopting a counterinsurgency strategy. At the time,
McCain faced attacks from Republicans for his criticism of
the administration’s failing strategy.

Only years later would President Bush follow McCain’s
suggestion by implementing the surge. The surge’s success
has vindicated McCain.

He shares Bush’s commitment to defeating Islamic
extremism, yet demonstrates a strategic competence Bush
lacks.

As president, McCain would fight

for liberty and moderation in the

Middle East no matter the politi-
cal cost.

More importantly, McCain’s steadfast support of the surge,
despite its unpopularity, demonstrates that his priorities lie
not in his electoral fortunes but in the national interest. As
president, McCain would fight for liberty and moderation in
the Middle East no matter the political cost.

Although John McCain is fundamentally conservative, he
is not a purist. More important to McCain than conservatism
is the national interest. For the most part, he has employed
conservative policies as a means to this end. That he occa-
sionally departs from ideology bothers some. But they forget
we are electing a national leader, not a national ideologue.

Zach Bennett ’1l is a Political Science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@ davidson.edu.

Make the prevention of global warning a priority

CLINT SMITH
Guest Columnist

The greatest problem facing our country today is unfortu-
nately the least understood. By definition, global warming is
the increase of the earth’s average temperature over the past
century and its seemingly inevitable continuation. While a
slow increase in temperature may not seem like a significant
issue right now, the results accompanying this phenomenon
are beginning to have dire consequences. Among these con-
sequences are melting glaciers, extreme weather patterns and
rising global sea levels.

To some of you, this may be the same nonsense you hear
every once in a while on the news and then forget a minute
later. “Stupid hippies,” is probably what you’re thinking. But
if the glaciers around the world continue to melt at their cur-
rent rate, then there could be a grim outcome for low-lying
lands across the world. Rising sea levels could lead to long-
term flooding in areas all across the U.S. Eastern and Gulf
coasts.

Additionally, while global warming is not the reason hur-
ricanes exist, scientists have discovered that it is the reason
they have been so strong in recent years.

This statement is irrefutable. As ocean temperature contin-
ues to increase, tropical storms gain more fuel and energy
and are thus more powerful and destructive. What may have
been a category two hurricane 50 years ago may be a catego-
ry three or four today.

An even more disturbing fact is that the droughts brought
on by global warming are responsible for the unusually
potent wildfires that have recently occurred throughout
California, the Midwest and our own North Carolina.

Most vexing is that people seem oblivious that human
beings are primarily responsible for earth’s rising tempera-
ture. Global warming is a result of carbon dioxide and other
pollutants gradually amassing in the earth’s atmosphere. This
causes a thick blanket to trap the sun’s heat, which then

‘warms the earth.

The two major human causes of carbon dioxide production
are coal-burning power plants and automobiles. Thankfully,
many industries have begun to realize the effect they have on
the environment and have made concerted efforts to engineer
cars that burn less gas and plants that run off solar or electri-
cal power.

As college students, we often think there is nothing we can
do, but there are, in fact, numerous ways we can decrease the
frightening pace global warming has taken. Simply turning
off the lights, air conditioner, laptop and Xbox 360 upon
leaving a room can make a significant difference in the col-
lege’s energy output.

The best solution for most of us, however, is to practice
fuel-efficient driving. Every used gallon of gasoline puts 26
pounds of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

You can boost the overall fuel-efficiency of your car by as
much as 30 percent by simple vehicle maintenance and atten-
tion to your driving style. These include avoiding jack-rabbit
Starts, making sure your tires are properly inflated, using less
air conditioning, employing cruise control and even making
a commitment to drive less.

It isn’t necessary to drive to CVS. Take a walk and enjoy
the beautiful weather we’ve been having. Not only will these
suggestions help the environment, but they can also drastical-
ly reduce money spent on gas.

Some try to refute climate change by stating that while sci-
entists have indeed shown that some areas of the ocean have
warmed, other parts have become cooler. While this is true,
the warm water areas grow every day, outnumbering the
cooler ones. So while many conservatives believe that glob-
al warming is an exaggerated myth, there is undeniable evi-
dence that it affects our world each day. It is important that
we do all we can to prevent global warming from getting
worse. Otherwise, we must embrace the fact that a century
from now, our children will live in a very different world.

Clint Smith ‘10 is undeclared. He is from New Orleans, La.
Contact him at clsmith@davidson.edu. -
