4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FF eee

News

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

EAC shows ‘WALL-E’ for lights-off Earth Hour

KELSEY LILLEY.
News Editor

Last Saturday at 8:30 p.m., the Envi-
ronmental Action Committee (EAC) and
Residence Life Office (RLO) sponsored a
showing of the film “WALL-E” in order to
promote Earth Hour, an hour in which indi-
viduals across the globe turn off lights and
appliances in order to promote environmental
consciousness and give the earth “a break.”
“Tt’s actually quite amazing the effect Earth
Hour has if a large enough group of people
participate,” Ian Mangum 11, member and
former Publicity Chair of the EAC, said.

According the Earth Hour’s official web-
site www.earthhour.org. Earth Hour was first
practiced in Sydney, Australia in 2007. In
one hour, 2.2 million people turned off their
lights. That number grew to 50 million in
2008, and as earthhour.org noted, “Global
landmarks such as the Golden Gate Bridge in
San Francisco, Rome’s Colosseum, the Syd-
ney Opera House and the Coca Cola billboard
in Times Square all stood in darkness.”

Earth Hour is sponsored by the World
Wildlife Foundation, who symbolizes turn-
ing off lights as a “vote” for climate change;
leaving them on, however, is a “vote” for

FRANCISCO FIALLO

Staff Writer

Internal changes and reforms led the
Student Government Association’s (SGA)
agenda during its meeting last Thursday, as
its members looked to implement some of
the ideas developed during the retreat it held
on Mar. 22. The SGA was also able to act on
some of the remaining issues of former Stu-
dent Body President Greene ’09’s agenda.

Early on, the SGA voted unanimously to
approve a set of reforms to the charter and
charter renewal process for student organiza-
tions. The reforms would divide student or-
ganizations into four tiers, each with budget
allowances set by the Activities Tax Council.
The categories would also determine access
to college resources—such as the privilege
of reserving rooms in campus buildings and
the opportunity to operate a table at the stu-
dent activities fair.

In addition, the changes would also give
the highest tier of organization—a category
limited to The Davidsonian, the Union Board
and the SGA—flexibility in providing sti-
pends to some of its members. Previously,
salaried positions were limited to a few posi-
tions, with no means of altering their payroll.
Now, organization are free to add stipends,
subject to ATC approval and the constraint
that total student compensation equal no
more than five percent of the total student
activities budget.

The SGA currently pays stipends of $800
and $200 per year to its chancellor and trea-
surer, respectively. Those stipends are justi-
fied by the claim that the positions require
more time spent on unglamorous tasks, and
that those tasks would go unfulfilled unless
those students received compensation.

With this flexibility the SGA can move
forward on another part of this year’s agenda:
making the appointed position of publicity
officer a paid one. The officer is responsible
for communicating the SGA’s Activities to
the student body, and will be tasked with im-
plementing and maintaining an SGA website

global warming.

After the immense success of Earth
Hour 2008, the WWF set a target of | billion
“votes” across the globe for 2009, calling it
“the world’s first global election.” The num-
bers are not in yet, but an estimate by eweek.
com clocked over 1,000 cities participating
in the hour.

Once proper numbers on participation are
in, the WWF notes on the Earth Hour website
that they will be “presented to world lead-
ers at the [United Nations] Global Climate
Change Conference in Copenhagen 2009.”

At the conference, which begins Dec.
7 of this year, officials will be determining
new environmental policies to combat global
warming, which will be the last global meet-
ing before the Kyoto Protocol runs out and
must be renewed in 2012.

At Davidson, Mangum said that the EAC
hoped to get people to turn off their lights and
then leave their rooms, increasing the amount
of time that lights are turned off. “WALL-E”
was intended to give people something to do
after turning off their lights.

“(‘WALL-E’] was an excellent movie
choice due to its meaning and the enter-
tainment it provided,” Mangum said, espe-
cially noting the appropriate environmen-

with a blog and podcasts of SGA meetings.

Student Body President Meikaela Zwie-
ryznski ’10 hoped to add a stipend to the po-
sition, which was created at the beginning of
the academic year. The position is currently
unfilled. Zwieryznski and Vice President
Baker Shogry ’10 are also considering giving
the officer authority over a committee, with
the intention of having them staff out more
menial tasks.

During the discussion over adding the sal-
ary —which has been initially set at $600—
some students felt that the roles and respon-
sibilities of the office should be made explicit
and that potential appointees should demon-
strate the skills necessary for the position.
On other issues, the SGA considered grant-
ing Cats Connect its request for a non-voting
representative in the SGA. Cats Connect is a
program which seeks to pair upperclassmen

with groups of first-year students in an effort °

to ease their transition into college life.

The measure was met with some initial
reluctance, as weekly SGA meetings are
open to the public and the addition of a non-
voting member would be nothing more than
a formality. Shogry also voiced the concern
that SGA was not in the role of legitimizing
other student organizations and that granting
this request would be seen as an endorse-
ment of the program. However, Zwieryzn-
ski replied that the Cats Connect had official
support from the President’s office and that
its contact and dialogue Avith first year stu-
dents could be a valuable source of input and
feedback that would not normally reach the
SGA. .

Before ending, the treasurer mentioned .

that $5,300 of the SGA’s budget from the previ-
ous administration remained unspent, and the
SGA was encouraged to come up with ideas
on how the money might be spent. However,
there is no requirement that the budget be
spent—any remaining balances for student or-
ganizations roll over in the Student Activities
Budget that funds all student organizations.
The salary and Cats Connect issues will likely
be put to a vote at next Thursday’s meeting.

tally conscious theme that WF
“WALL-E” provided.

In addition to ask-
ing students and faculty
to turn off lights and ap-
pliances for an hour, the
EAC powered the show-
ing of “WALL-E” not
with electricity, but with
a bike. Assistant Direc-
tor for Operations Tim
Stroud rode the bike to
generate energy to power
the showing of “WALL-
E.” Mangum said that the
bike was originally cre-
ated for the Eco-House
two years ago, but is now
property of Davidson
Outdoors.

Though the EAC
planned on showing the
movie on Belk Lawn,
rainy conditions moved it
to the Sprinkle Room.

“Tf all the people that
came to see the movie
turned off their lights, I would say the event
was fairly successful,” Mangum said. “Peo-

Last Saturday, the Environmental Action Committee and
RLO sponsored a showing of the film “WALL-E,” intended
to augment “Earth Hour” efforts, in which students and
citizens all over the globe turned off their lights for an
hour to call for action on climate change.

ple had a great time and the message was
felt.”

MPlISMO! Te of SSRomwur

3/24/09 00:36
The officer was contacted in reference to a subject begging for money at the Student
Union. Officers approached and he gave his name and advised that he lived in
Cornelius. When asked for his ID he said that he did not have it with him, but that

he was a student. The officer asked him again about being a student and he stated

that he was not a student but that he Knows an individual who is a student. Upon
further investigation the referenced individual is not a student either. The subject

was then placed in handcuffs and transported to the Campus Police officer for further
questioning. The subject advised that his mother had run out of gas and he was trying
to get money for her. The subject changed his story again and stated that his mom had
dropped him off so he could help another woman with her car. He was then trespassed
from the college and the officer transported him to his residence in Cornelius.

3/26/09 20:55
The officer observed an unattended dog (brown Lab) near Tomlinson Residence Hall.

A tag on the dog's collar identified the dog as Lacey Ford. After talking with the dog's
owner, the officer returned the dog to Hobb Street in Davidson.

3/27/09 16:00
A Davidson student walked into the Campus Police office and reported that a hook rug
was missing from outside of her dorm room in Belk. The student stated that she last
saw the rug on Friday, March 20 at 22:00 hrs and she discovered it missing at 10:00
hrs on Saturday, March 21. The hook rug was white in color with a red Davidson
Wildcat outlined in black hand made. The student has checked around asking if
anybody has seen it to no avail.

3/27/09 19:12
Officer responded to a call of a suspicious person near Patterson Ct. The caller
advised of an elderly female wearing a knitted hat standing outside of KA. Reporting
officer assisted by Officer Combs spoke to the subject who advised she was with the
Davidson College Presbyterian Church. She also advised she was waiting for her
fellow church mates that were inside Vail Commons. Reporting officers verified the
information.

3/28/09 00:41
Officer Heinz while on routine patrol in the Upper Satellite parking lot observed

a suspicious vehicle. Reporting officer observed the vehicle parked alone at the far
north end of the parking. Reporting officer did not recognize the vehicle, nor did the
vehicle display any Davidson College insignia.

Reporting officer spoke with the juvenile female driver and a juvenile male passenger
who advised they were just talking. Reporting officer informed the two juveniles

on Davidson College policies and advised them to find a better place to have a
conversation.

3/28/09 22:47
Officer conducted a zone check on N Main St. The officer observed a broken chair
‘at the WDAV building. The chair was the large chair that was located on the outside
porch. The chair had been knocked over by an unknown person, animal or possibly
high wind. The chair sustained damage to the rocker leg and upper chair backing. The
officer has no reason to believe that the damage happened intentionally.
