THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHN Evans
Staff Writer

Monday night, American novelist Rus-
sell Banks delivered the College’s annual
Conarroe Lecture. Banks has penned over a
dozen novels, including “The Sweet Hereaf-
ter,” “Cloudsplitter,” “Continental Drift” and
“The Reserve,” several of which have been
made into films. In previous years, such dis-
tinguished authors as Joyce Carol Oates, An-
nie Proulx, Michael Cunningham, Michael
Ondaatje, Salmon Rushdie and, last year,
Michael Chabon, have given the lecture.

The lecture commemorates the achieve-
ments of Joel Conarroe ’56, former president
of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial
Foundation and the PEN America Center,
by hosting a prominent writer on campus “to
enhance the literary experience of Davidson
students.”

In his gracious introduction, Conarroe
said of Banks, “He writes with a poet’s eye
and ear. He got his knowledge the old-fash-
ioned way: he learned it.”

Banks’ speech traced the historical rela-
tionship between literature and political en-
gagement and focused on the writer’s place-
ment within the larger political world. He
examined the political impact of “protest
novels” such as Sinclair’s The Jungle and
Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin. He claimed that
these novels do not read as literary works of
art, but as political and social arguments.

“A true novelist,” he said, “has no thought
for his or her audience, at least not while
writing...not while submitting oneself to the
traditions of form.” He defended the literary
artist as a source of morality, as someone who
“dramatizes what it means to be human” and
who “inspires others to listen and to see.”

BE i Lo ve

Be agen te

om ©

ee “a

en Wright for details at.
lawright@davidson.edu —

| _NEws |
Exclusive interview with novelist Russell Banks

Banks exampled the late writers Susan
Sontag, Kurt Vonnegut, and Norman Mailer
as the last great literary public figures for some
time to come, since, according to Banks, no
one among the younger generations seems
capable of taking their place. Banks grounds
this belief in what he perceives to be litera-
ture’s steady relegation from high art form to
a marketable product of entertainment.

“We need human decency in govern-
ment,” he said, “and linguistic moral clarity
in letters.... Can the Twain ever meet?” With
a government more concerned with policy-
making than moralizing, Banks cautioned
those in attendance to remain vigilant: “We
must not allow ourselves to forget what it is
to be human.”

Banks did not speak about his own work
until after the lecture, when he opened the
floor for questions. A reception and book
signing followed the Q&A session.

“You need to find your
contemporaries. Be around

them. Learn from them.”
-Russell Banks

The Davidsonian had the opportunity to
speak with Mr. Banks prior to the evening’s
lecture. Mr. Banks discussed his motivation
as a writer and his writing process, and of-
fered advice for aspiring Davidson writers.

The Village Voice described you as “a
writer we, as readers and writers, can ac-
tually learn from, whose books help and
urge us to change.” Is this what really mo-
tivates you to write, or does your writing
develop at a more personal level?

“Actually, it’s good you started with that
question, because sometimes I get catego-
rized like that, and I need to resist it. The fact
is, I don’t write in order to change anybody’s
mind, unless it’s my own mind. But not any-
one else’s. I’m really trying to penetrate to
an understanding of something which is mys-
terious to me, and which is impenetrable ex-
cept through the process of writing the novel.
Something I can’t get to, a depth I can’t get
to, without sitting down and spending three
or four or however many years of my life to
write that specific novel. What I really do,
as I think most serious artists do, is write for
myself, first and foremost. Otherwise, I’d
know the answer before I even started. And
that would be pretty boring.”

You do extensive research for a novel
like The Sweet Hereafter. How does the
research aspect of your work both chal-
lenge and revise any preconceived ideas
you may have had about your subject?

“Well, lots of times you learn things that
you had no idea were there by happenstance
and accident over the course of research. But
anovelist’s research is very different from the
way a historian or a scholar does research. I
don’t want to necessarily become an expert
on a subject, whatever it might be. I’ve writ-

a=

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009 3

ten historical fiction, fiction that is set in the
distant past, which required me to do a lot of
historical research.

“But what I’m really doing
is researching to obtain ma-
terial that will create in the
novel a certain plausibility,

a reality, a fictional world

that I couldn't otherwise
do.”
-Russell Banks

But what I’m really doing is researching
to obtain material that will create in the nov-
el a certain plausibility, a reality, a fictional
world that I couldn’t otherwise do. ELL.
Doctorow was asked how much research he
did for his novels, and he said, ‘Just enough.’
That’s kind of a tricky answer. But that’s
true. You don’t do it in order to become an
expert on the subject. You do it because your
purpose is to create a world, a fictional world,

See Russel Banks, page 4

Storage project threatens
trail ecological preserve

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

Roughly one hundred meters from the
two-mile mark on the 5k cross-country trails
a clearing in the woods appears where Da-
vidson is constructing a large fenced-in stor-
age building.

The college is creating this new facility,
which will have access to DunMurray Road,
to serve the storage needs of Residence Life,
Davidson Outdoors and the President.

When the Johnston Gymnasium was
renovated to become the current Knobloch
Campus Center, Davidson Outdoors and
Residence Life lost a considerable amount of
storage space.

Davidson Outdoors has been utilizing

space at Lake Campus to house boats and:

equipment on trailers covered by tarps. Resi-
dence Life has been forced to store its equip-
ment on the IMAC fields in tractor-trailers.

The idea for the construction of the stor-
age facility in the area surrounding the cross-
country trails was formed in 2000, but it was
not until 2007 that the budget was available
to fund the project.

Both Davidson Outdoors and Residence
Life will benefit greatly from the more con-
venient and protected storage facility. En-
closed by a fence, the area includes a large
light brown storage building with double
garage doors that are surrounded by several
open areas of red clay designed deliberately
for future expansion.

For those students who have not wan-
dered out to the cross-country trails, they
can be accessed through an opening in the
woods behind the Baker Sports Complex,
across the football practice field. They in-
clude about 200 acres of forest and 5k and
8k trails, which are all part of Davidson Col-
lege Ecological Preserve, established in the
spring of 2001.

Created to offer research experiences and
hands-on learning opportunities for students,
the ecological preserve has been used and
enjoyed by students, professors, and commu-
nity members alike.

The trails also provide opportunities for
recreation, such as running, walking, biking,
and enjoying nature. The area offers a beauti-
ful and peaceful place for students to relax,

as well as a dirt surface for running and walk-
ing with reduced impact.

The preserve is a great venue for connect-
ing the community and the college; on the
weekends, members of the community can
be seen walking with their families and pets,
while students jog or walk with friends.

Along with its benefits for the Davidson
community, the undeveloped land also pro-
vides a home to a great number of plants and
animals. A variety of habitats are found in the
ecological preserve: mixed-hardwood pine
forest, fields, creeks and streams, new forest
growth, scrub, kudzu and edge habitats.

These differing environments create
homes for an extensive number of animals
and plant species found surrounding the
trails, including turtles, lizards, sixteen dif-
ferent species of snakes, a multitude of am-
phibians and birds, opossums, bats, skunks,
foxes, raccoons, deer and mice. This vast
variety of wildlife creates a remarkable yet
delicate ecosystem.

Although the storage facility is not tech-
nically on the land dedicated to the Davidson
College Ecological Preserve, the close vicin-
ity of the building and the clearing of vegeta-
tion cannot be ignored as having an impact
on the surrounding habitat. The area where
construction is underway was a former wet-
land area and amphibian breeding ground.

But as with any construction, the needs of
the community have to be weighed with the
ecological costs.

According to Dr. Michael E. Dorcas, a
biology professor who has done research in
Herpetology and Conservation Biology on
the Ecological Preserve, the Physical Plant
has been especially cooperative and thought-
ful in valuing the undeveloped land.

Although he hates to see the habitat de-
stroyed, Dr. Dorcas mentioned that the land
where the construction is taking place was
already partially disturbed.

While upsetting a part of the natural
habitat, the facility provides essential stor-
age space for other campus needs which will
benefit the college in the long run.

Since the creation of the preserve in 2001,
Davidson has certainly done an excellent job
of maintaining this great resource, which wi.
hopefully remain for future generations of
the Davidson College community.
