4 Tne DAvIpSsONIAN

Students, faculty share thoughts in blogs

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Over the course of the past year, blogging
at Davidson has proliferated. Blogs around
campus are authored by students, as well
as by professors, librarians and archivists.
Some of these blogs are part of class assign-
ments, while others document Davidson’s
history or communicate with other colleges
and universities.

Lyz Pfister 09 and Josh Hamlet ’ 10 start-
ed food blog this semester as part of an inde-
pendent study on food under Dr. Fuji Lozada
and Dr. Gail Gibson. According to Pfister,
the students developed the blog as a method
to produce gradeable material for the class,
as well as to develop a food writing portfolio,
which will help them if they pursue careers
in food writing. Pfister described the blog’s
contents as “whatever we want; a lot of it is
food memoir.” Recently, Pfister and Hamlet
read Michael Pollan’s In Defense of Food, so
she expected future entries in the blog to con-
tain more writings concerning food politics.

The food blog has already acquired a sig-
nificant following. Pfister said that “a bunch
of people have been telling me they’ve been
reading the blog.” She cited her entry about
a taco truck, which prompted many people to
call her about the location of the mentioned’
taco truck. Pfister, whose said her interest in
writing and food extends beyond academics,
intends to continue her blog after she gradu-
ates in May. .

Jan Blodgett of college archives started
a blog named “Around the D” after reading
about other archives with blogs. She ex-
plained that in the archiving world there are

three types of blogs: process blogs, for other
archivists; philosophical blogs, about issues
related to archiving; and content blogs, of
which Around the D is an example.

According to Blodgett, Around the-D,
which has existed for four months, has been
“fun to do,” and that one of the most enjoy-
able blogs so far was about college uniforms.
She said that the hardest part is getting in-
ternet traffic on the blog, but she remains
optimistic and “would love for students to
become engaged and become guest writers.
We’re always interested in student participa-
tion.”

Director of the Library Jill Gremmels runs
“The Director’s Blog” to communicate with
other libraries. She described its purpose as
“mostly for me to share my thinking about
libraries and this one in particular. I tend
to focus on big-picture issues.” Gremmels
added that there is a great fear that libraries
are becoming irrelevant with more and more
texts and images accessible online. “I don’t
agree,” she stated, “but I think we need to
think very differently about what we do.”

Gremmels began “The Director’s Blog”
last fall. She says that she has already re-
ceived some off-campus fans, mainly librari-
ans from other schools. However, she would
like to expand her audience to Davidson
student and faculty, and-encourages them to
read it because the issues surrounding librar-
ies “are issues we all have to think about.”

Pfister and Hamlet’s food blog can be
found at http://blogs.davidson.edu/eatme.
Around the D’s web address is http://blogs.
davidson.edu/aroundthed. “The Director’s
Blog” is located at http://blogs.davidson.edu/
gremmels.

A Message from the President’s Office:
Lights On Davidson
April 27 — May. 13, 2009

“Lights On Davidson” is a Davidson tra-
dition that was started to help students
prepare for their exams. It provides extra
hours of building access for all students,
approximately two weeks prior to and dur-
ing exams. Lights On Davidson begins on
Mon. April 27 and will continue until Wed.

May 13.

All students will have 24/7 CatCard access
to Chambers during Lights On Davidson.

Students who currently have late night
CatCard access to other academic build--
ings will have 24/7 access to those build-
ings during Lights On Davidson.

Computer labs are generally rather crowd-
ed during this time but you can easily find
open lab computers in real time online. Go

Looking for another _
post-graduation option?

Check out the 1-year Master of Management Studies

f

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

negotiate the lowest pri

to the ITS website and click on the “Avail-
able Lab Computers” link under the “Re-
sources” section.

All audio visual equipment in classrooms
is for academic use only and is not to be
used for entertainment purposes.

Classrooms are to be shared by all and are

not for the exclusive use of a single person

or small group. Signs stating “in use” are
not permitted.

Classrooms have to be cleaned starting at
6:00 a.m. on exam days, so please remove
your books and materials before that time.

Please remember our commitment to sus-
tainability and turn out lights in the class-
rooms when you leave.

Thank you for your cooperation.
Good luck on your exams.

program from Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business!

This program can help you transform your liberal arts, science, or engineering background into
marketable business expertise. Expand your career options and enter the job market next year
with a broader, more practical skill set.

Learn the fundamentals of strategy, management, accounting, marketing, operations,
decision analysis, and finance from one of the world’s top business schools.

Contact us today to learn how you can better prepare for a job market in transition.
www.fuqua.duke.edu/mms/wildcats

eae SP anbe athe

ebebhcs ess at
o

DUKE

THE FUQUA
» SCHOOL. |
OF BUSINESS

=f Bid
