10 THE DavipsoniAN

Clem Butler ’12 makes tackles Lenoir-Rhyne running back James Pone during Sat-
urday’s homecoming game. Butler finished the game with three tackles.

’Cats fall to Bears in home opener

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team’s early
struggles continued at Homecoming last Sat-
urday as the Wildcats suffered a 42-0 setback
against the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears.

The Bears ran for 370 yards out of their
triple-option offense, and put up 413 yards
total against a defense that has given up
fourteen touchdowns in two games. Andrew
Courman led the way with 140 rushing yards,
including a 95-yard run that gave Lenoir-
Rhyne a 28-0 lead with 7:03 remaining in
the third quarter. Byron Darby finished with
five rushes for 92 yards, including a 77-yard
scamper on the first play of the third quarter
to give the Bears a 21-0 lead.

The Wildcat defense played relatively
solidly in the first half, only surrendering
points when given a short field by the offense.
Michael Blanchard *11 threw an interception
on the first play from scrimmage, setting
up a 41-yard drive that ended with Antwain
Ross’ nine-yard carry for a touchdown with
just over three minutes gone in the game.
The Bears drove 25 yards for a score after
Dewayne Jones recovered a fumble by Jus-
tin Williams ’1!. The drive was capped by a
two-yard run by Justin Sanders.

Lenoir-Rhyne added to its margin in the
fourth quarter. Doug Ellis blocked an An-
drew Wohler ’11 punt, giving the Bears the
ball on the Wildcat two yard-line. Le’Quan
McCorkle ran in on the next play. The fi-
nal touchdown came when Brandon Brown
forced Blanchard to fumble on a sack, allow-
ing Mike Harold to recover the fumble and
run it in from two yards out.

Blanchard finished with 190 yards on 13-
31 passing with three interceptions. Andrew
Aldrich ’10 was his favorite target, hauling
in four passes for 70 yards. Jonathan Adams

*12 added three catches for 48 yards. Kenny
Mantuo °11 led the Wildcat ground game
with 83 yards on 43 carries.

The Davidson defense was led by Will
Pickens ’10 with 10 tackles and Tyler Lem-
ons ’10 who had nine tackles and a sack.

The Wildcats were plagued throughout
the day by poor field position. No Davidson
possession started closer than the Wildcat 34,
and 11 of the 14 Davidson drives started in-
side their own 30. The Wildcats had only one
possession of over 31 yards, a 76-yard march
spanning the end of the third and beginning
of the fourth quarters. Mantuo rushed three
times for 70 yards on the drive, which ended
when back-up quarterback Matt Heavner *12
was sacked at the Lenoir-Rhyne 17 on fourth
down.

Five turnovers (three interceptions and
two lost fumbles) combined to hamstring
an offense that otherwise produced 313 total
yards. The Wildcats ran fifteen more plays
than the Bears and had nearly as many first
downs, but the field position discrepancy
(aided by four Bear punts that landed inside
the 20) helped to ensure that the Wildcats
would remain scoreless thus far in the 2009
season.

“Tumovers absolutely killed us today,”
Davidson head coach Tripp Merritt said.
“They put our defense into tough spots, and
they got tired and didn’t tackle well in the
second half.”

If there is any consolation for the Wild-
cats, it is in their next opponent, the Camp-
bell Camels. The Camels will come to Rich-
ardson Stadium next Saturday at 6 p.m. to
begin the Pioneer Football League season.
The Wildcats demolished the Camels 49-0
last year, rolling up 516 yards of total of-
fense. Blanchard also scored his first career
touchdown in that game on a three-yard run
in the fourth quarter.

Football Field Hockey Men’s Soccer
(0-2) (2-4) (2-1)
Results: Results: Results:

9/12 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne L 0-42

9/12 vs. #17 Indiana L 1-6

9/11 vs. UNC-Asheville W 2-0
9/13 vs. Coastal Carolina L 1-3

Next Up:
9/19 vs. Campbell Next Up: Next Up:
9/18 @ Appalachian State 9/16 @ Radford
Notes: The Wildcats open up 9/20 @ #3 Wake Forest 9/19 @ Presbyterian
Pioneer league play when they 9/22 @ High Point

host Campbell on Saturday
night.

Notes: Jennie Mostellar ’11
scored the ’Cats lone goal in
Saturday’s 6-1 loss to national-
ly-ranked Indiana.

Alex Caskey ’11were named to
the Davidson adidas Classic all
tournament team as the ’Cats
split a pair of games.

Notes: Chalie Reiter ’10 and Notes: The Wildcats victory over

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

Freshmen QB’s come of age

LoaGaAn Lewis
Sports Section Editor

It is just the second week of the 2009
college football season, but certain fresh-
men are already rising to the occasion on
the grandest of stages. Many players from
around the country come into elite programs
with loads of hype and expectations swirling
about them. No players had greater levels of
pressure upon their youthful shoulders than
did quarterbacks Tate Forcier of Michigan or
Matt Barkley of the University of Southern
California. This Saturday they burst onto the
college football scene with poised perfor-
mances en route to victory.

Forcier suited up first in his afternoon
matchup against Jimmy Clausen’s Notre
Dame Fightin’ Irish in Michigan Stadium,
affectionately known as the “Big House” by
those who bleed maize and blue. The nick-
name is no jest as the stadium was packed
with more than 100,000 screaming fans.
With Notre Dame carrying a number 18 in
both polls, the unranked Michigan Wolver-
ines were not expected to escape this rivalry
game with a victory.

Forcier didn’t get the memo.

He lifted his team onto his back and pro-
pelled them to victory, completing 23 of 33
passes for 240 yards and two touchdowns
while also rushing for one. Forcier gave

Michigan its biggest lead of the day with
14:16 remaining in the fourth quarter. On a
fourth down and three yards to go, he took
the shotgun snap and scampered 31 yards for
a touchdown, making the Michigan lead 31-
20.

Preston Eldridge ’10 makes a catch dur-
ing the Wildcats’ loss to Lenoir-Rhyne.

th

The Irish did not go quietly, however, and
fought their way back, regaining the lead 34-
31. Now, it was Forcier’s chance to write his
name in the lore of the Notre Dame/Michi-
gan rivalry. Michigan took over possession
of the ball at its own 43 yard-line with 2:13
left in the game with two timeouts. He pro-
ceeded to orchestrate a masterful drive of six
completions, culminating with a five yard
completion to Greg Matthews for the game-
winning touchdown in the Wolverines’ 38-34
win with just 0:11 remaining.

Less than an hour after the conclusion of
Forcier’s performance, Matt Barkley stepped
onto literally the biggest stage in the histo-
ry of Ohio Stadium. “The Horseshoe” was
packed with a record crowd of more than
106,000 people in No. 3 USC’s battle against
No. 8 Ohio State University. This game was
certain to be an exciting battle, as two titans
of the college football world collided on a
gorgeous night in Columbus, Ohio.

While the game was low-scoring, the
stage was set for a game-winning drive. This
one lay in the hands of young Southern Cali-
fornia native Matt Barkley who turned 19 just
the previous Tuesday. With only one game
under his belt, the hyped youngster kept his
composure throughout the night, playing it
cool under pressure.

With the score 15-10 in Ohio State’s fa-
vor, USC took the field on offense with 7:29
remaining in the game. The USC offense
methodically matriculated the ball down the
field over a span of 6:10 which included 14
plays and covered 86 yards. The drive ended
in victory for the Trojans as Stafon Johnson
ran two yards around the Buckeye defense for
his second score of the game with just over a
minute left, giving USC the lead 18-15. Dur-
ing the drive, Barkley kept a cool head, com-
pleting three passes and rushing for a crucial
first down on one occasion. At one point,
the Trojans were backed up to their own five
yard-line, but two big plays saved USC from
peril. A rush by Joe McKnight followed by
a Barkley connection to McKnight as a re-
ceiver out of the backfield helped USC make
its way out of trouble.

While the numbers for Barkley are not
that impressive, he completed just 15 of his
31 passes for 195 yards and threw for one
interception with no touchdowns, he utilized
his skills as a game manager to engineer a
long drive in a hostile atmosphere when it
mattered most.

Saturday was a great day for college
football. Two young men, mere teenagers,
exceeded my expectations and announced
themselves as gladiators in college football’s
most celebrated arenas. Now I wonder who
will be the next to make a name for himself
in a critical moment in front of thousands or
even millions of viewers. That’s why I will
be watching this weekend and every week-
end that remains during this wonderful sea-
son of the year, and I encourage you to do
the same.

cL

Women’s Soccer Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
(3-4) (2-8) Cross Country

Results: Results: Results:

9/10 vs. Charlotte L 0-2 9/11 vs. UNCW L0-3 “Off *
9/13 @ High Point W 1-0 9/12 vs. Radford L 2-3
9/12 vs. Canisius L 1-3

Next Up:

Next Up: Next Up: 9/19 Winthrop Invitational

9/18 @ Richmond Winthrop Tournament

9/20 @ Virginia Tech

High Point was their seventh
straight in the series.

9/18 @ Winthrop
9/19 vs. James Madison
9/19 vs. Gardner-Webb

Notes: Sarabeth Peele ’11 earned
all-tournament honors for her

Notes: Lance Harden ’09 was
named SoCon Men’s Runner
of the Week for his 2nd place
finish in the season opening Eye
Opener at USC-Upstate two
weeks ago.

play in the Wildcat Classic.
