2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson

alum took
mission to
space

Kara JONES
News Staff

Some professors say that you can do any-
thing with a liberal arts education. This cer-
tainly seems true in the case of Tom Marsh-
burn ’82, who recently fulfilled his lifelong
dream to become an astronaut.

After graduating from Davidson with
a bachelor’s degree of physics, Marshburn
went on to get a masters in engineering phys-
ics from the University of Virginia, a doctor-
ate of medicine from Wake Forest University
and a masters in medical science from the
University of Texas Medical Branch.

Wanting to work for the space indus-
try, Marshburn began working for NASA
in 1994 as a flight surgeon, not thinking he
would eventually be able to travel into space.
However, in 2004, NASA selected him for
Astronaut Candidate Training. A rigorous
two years of scientific and technical brief-
ings, the process entails instruction in a
number of crucial arenas, including shuttle
systems and International Space Station sys-
tems, physiological training, flight training
and water and wilderness survival training.
The completion of this program qualified
Marshburn as a mission specialist, and in
2009 he was chosen as an astronaut on the
shuttle Endeavor.

Born and raised in Statesville, Marshburn
grew up building model rockets and dream-
ing of going to space. He took up many other
hobbies throughout his life, including flying,
scuba diving and mountain climbing. In
1980, he backpacked the Pacific Crest Trail
from Canada to Mexico.

Marshburn’s first walk in space marked
the fortieth anniversary of Neil Armstrong
and Buzz Aldrin’s first moon landing. He
traveled in order to attach a pump and an-
tenna to the international space station.

The thirteen-man crew at the internation-
al space station comprised the largest crew
to ever be in one spacecraft at the same time.
Of the five walks on this mission, Tom par-
ticipated in three. His roles at the station also
included doctor and crew photographer.

Marshburn invited Dr. Larry Cain of the
physics department to the launch.

Library, from page I

student could text, dvdsn how do I get to

WEDNESDAY, SPETEMBER 2, 2009

Students enjoy a concert by Wale on Saturday night as a part of Wildcat Welcome Week.

Flu numbers on campus still uncertain

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

It’s only the second week of classes, and
it seems that the same question is on every-
one’s lips; who has the flu? Nurse Jan Poole
explained that the Health Center was not sur-
prised by the outbreak, for which the school
has been preparing all summer. “We knew it
was coming,” she said, “We had just hoped
it wouldn’t start quite this soon.” Poole ex-
plained that it is difficult to determine the
prevalence of the H1N1 virus on campus for
a number of reasons. No swine flu test exists
for public health professionals or individual
medical centers, so all cases to be tested must
be sent to a state laboratory for analysis.

Only hospitals and medical centers clas-
sified as “sentinel sites” are eligible to send
test samples to state labs. The State Depart-
ment of Health uses information collected
from these 92 sentinel sites, including David-
son and 16 other universities and colleges, to
determine and monitor trends in the spread
of the virus. The Davidson Health Center has
permission to send three samples to the lab
per week.

Although the Health Center cannot im-

brary now has four PawPrint printers, from

which students. may ‘print documents: sent.”
from, any connected computer on campus.

Southeast. comer on the main for

logued using the Library ‘of Congress Class
fication ae in place of the former Dewey

and inaugurated.:the. Library, of Congress

call numbers with Davidson professor John «

“Law and Society in the @
h Carolina, Court

mediately confirm whether or not a specific
case is the H1N1 virus, Poole explained that
the health center knows that the cases it has
been seeing this week are not the seasonal
flu, since such cases are atypical during this
time of year.

Poole explained that if a student tests
positive for influenza A, she explained, then
they most likely have the swine flu. Although
she is not certain of the number of Davidson
students who may have the flu, Poole finds
the Davidson outbreak to be consistent with
reports distributed by the North Carolina De-
partment of Public Health.

The College has set up a rubric of strin-
gent guidelines for those who believe they
may have the flu. Students living with room-
mates have been temporarily quarantined on
the second and third floors of Martin Court
F, where lounges have been converted into
campus-wide infirmaries. The health center
asked students living in singles or off campus
to quarantine themselves, only leaving their
rooms when necessary and wearing masks
when in public.

The administration also advises all stu-
dents who have been diagnosed or suspect
that they might have the flu to avoid attend-

ee

he Library expects that the process oL

a converting its formerly catalogued colle
fion to the Library of Congress system wi
Two are’ located by the photocopiers. and lake several years.
bulletin. boards on the main floor;. one: is in.
the Electronic Classroom; and one. is in the: 3

‘The Library of Congress : system divide:
books into’21 letter-coded. peneral catag
ries, which range from pAuniliary Science
| “Agriculture’to #Naval

Sietomts must. be aware e that 4t is not onl
calf Aumbers, but also the genres and. su

and Tuesdays: and: Wednesdays ° from

ing classes. Commons provides delivered
and to-go meals for students who are isolated
because of illness, and professors have been
instructed to take the prevalence of the vi-
rus into account. Poole warns, however, that
students shouldn’t use class absences casu-
ally, since HIN1 and other illnesses will be
sweeping the campus throughout the semes-
ter.

The Student Health Center emphasizes
the need to treat all illnesses, including the
seasonal flu and common colds, with special
care in light of the spreading virus. Although
only 14 students have tested positive, cases
that test negative may be false negatives, and
the ideal testing procedure has not yet been
determined.

The college expects to receive a first
round of vaccines for the H1N1 virus some-
time after mid-October, when the federal
government has projected a supply will be
ready. In an email to the Davidson student
body, Dean Shandley explained that college
students have been identified as one of the
highest at-risk groups for the HIN] virus; the

See Flu, page 4

Social changes, from page I

Patty Perillo reiterated the idea that the Risk
Management and Patterson Court changes
are not intended to push parties off-campus
or deny students the ability to have fun.

“We know students work really hard,”
she said. “The intent [of the changes] is to
allow for safe fun.”

In addition, the annual “First Night
Down,” the weekend in which freshmen are
traditionally first allowed to attend Patterson
Court events, will now be held on a Monday,
rather than a Friday, and is now called the
“Opening of the Court.”

The changes in Patterson Court opera-
tions come in conjunction with President
Ross’s alcohol task force, which started last
semester and has continued into the current
year. The committee is made up of both stu-
dents and administrators, and will present
their final report in the coming weeks.

Perillo said that the task forces are taking
a “broader, deeper look at the alcohol culture
and having students lead the way to make
changes.”
