6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Each week Vail Commons puts together
seven theme tables, allowing students,
faculty and staff the opportunity to perfect
their language skills, to pick up a new lingo
or just to unwind from a busy school day.
This year’s international students along with
Davidson’s language professors will always
be at their respective tables to engage in
friendly conversation.

Though the majority of the tables are for
foreign languages, there are also two non-
language tables. Don’t have a meal plan?
Simply ask for a meal ticket, and you’re on
your way in!

The W Course table is supervised by
Dr. Hillard and held Wednesdays during
lunch. Students who are currently enrolled
in a freshman-level writing-intensive course
(W.-course) can enjoy learning more about
the nature of their particular class and the
importance of building a solid foundation in
writing to guarantee success in their future
Davidson courses.

During Friday’s lunch, Dr. Sarafova hosts
the Biology table. Dr. Sarafova, a theme
table veteran who enjoys helping with both
the Biology and Russian table, gives a little
taste of what goes on at Biology table.

“Our table aims to provide informal
interaction between students and biology
professors as well as between students

gS

‘ighteen and under ost five dollars" The
performance begins. at 730 and will last:
until 930 p.m. Contact Minh Ngyuen with

questions or for -more information at 704:

Wed. 2/18

FLY Laughter Therapy
4 p.m Union Atrium

Thur. 2/19

Health Center
FLY Potluck Dinner
6 p.m. Duke Lounge

Housing Lottery 101
7 p.m. Lilly Gallery

Outpost Trivia Night
Movie Themed 11 p.m.| 10:00 p.m.

Barber Theatre.

Free HIV testing
10:00 a.m. — 2:00 p.m

Dexter Filkins Lecture
NYT War Journalist
7:00 p.m. 900 room

Live Thursdays: Black
History Month Events,

Ghost Sonata 7:30 p.m.| Ghost Sonata 7:30 p.m.

Arts & LIVING __
Uncommon voices at Vail Commons

”

from different years,” said Sarafova. “As
a professor I enjoy learning about the
numerous talents my students have outside
the classroom. I think this activity brings the
entire department closer together.”

The French department also has a table.
They meet Thursdays from 5:30-7:00 Even
if it’s just to say a friendly “Bonjour,”
you’ll see that the French table will warmly
welcome you to join in on the fun. The
table’s representative, Anais Perussault,
is an international student who hails from
Chateau-Rouge, France. She enjoys the
friendly ambiance of /a table francaise.

“It’s a great time to make friends with
new people even if those who come don’t
necessarily speak French,” said Perussault.“
Plus, I love hearing French in an American
accent!”

Dr. Maiz-Pena supervises the Spanish
table on Fridays from 12:00-2:00 There is
no doubt that knowing even a little Spanish
can be useful in fields such as medicine and
law. Come join the Spanish table at the first
long table on the right side of Commons to
chat with international student Marina Coma
of Madrid. The many native speakers and the
Spanish professors at the table are always
delighted to see students and new faces.

Join Dr. Charlie Shen at the Chinese
table, also during Friday’s lunch period.
The biggest of all, the Chinese table, which
can always be found towards the far end of
Commons, encourages all to pick up the

world’s most spoken language.

“We’re very proud to the biggest table
at Commons,” said Shen. “It’s very nice to
see students who come and talk to us while
having a good time. It’s quite relaxing.” Ms.
Li, this year’s Chinese department fellow, is
also there to engage with students over some
lunch.

Ever wonder what the word stammtisch
means? Come join Dr. Henke and the
German students to talk about German
culture, language, music, cuisine and much
more every Tuesday from 11:30 to 1.

Russian Table Supervisor: Dr.
Ewington When: Tuesday; 12:30-
1:30 International student Georgy

Khabarovskiy from Obninsk, Russia, will
always welcome you with a smile at the
Russian table even if you may not speak his
mother tongue. In fact most students frequent
the Russian table for a hearty laugh and some
good old Russian humor.

“Even though at first I couldn’t follow
Russian too easily, now I’m having a better
command of the spoken language,” said Luke
Heil ’12. ““What’s just as cool is seeing all the
Russian-speaking students getting together
during lunch.”

The Russian table is overseen by Dr.
Ewington every Tuesday from 12:30 to
1:30.

The next time you feel like adding a little
flavor to you typical Commons routine, feel
free to grab a seat at any one of these tables.

g Biblical multimedia art

CourRTNEY TOBE
Staff Writer

When I look at a blank canvas I see it
for nothing other than what it physically is:
a 16 by 20 inch piece of cloth stretched over
a wooden frame. An artistic mind, however,
sees a blank canvas in a very different way.

Lauren Calve, a senior art major from
Burke, Virginia, is able to see the life of her
painting in a blank canvas before she even
makes her first brush stroke.

Calve’s discovered her profound artistic
vision at a very young age. She began taking
private art lessons in the fifth grade and
quickly started recieving ‘commissions for
her work.

“That’s when I got more serious and
I realized it was something I loved to do.”
Calve said. Calve continued taking art classes
in high school and committed to seriously
studying it in college by declaring art as her
major. Calve displayed her newest technique
of multimedia design in her Textured World
exhibit that went up last week. The exhibit
consisted of seven paintings inspired by her
religion class, The Exodus Tradition.

“The book of Exodus in the Bible has
a lot of inspirational stories with a lot of
cool imagery,” said Calve. “My faith really
influences my art work: Painting is such an
introspective activity it requires me to search
inside of myself.”

Fri. 2/20

Musical Interludes:
Dylan Savage, piano
12:30 p.m. Tyler-Tall-
man

Tea Time Discussion
China and India

3:30 p.m. RSVP lahohe
by Thur. at 5 p.m.
Symphony Orchestra
7:30 p.m. Duke Hall

Ghost Sonata 7:30 p.m.

Ghost Sonata 7:30

All of Calve’s experimentation led to her
recent creation of collagraphs, a printmaking
technique that incorporates different materials
such as plaster, stucco and acrylic mediums
onto a mixed media board that is then inked
up and imprinted onto a piece of paper.

“I’m really enjoying creating the
collagraphs because everything I’ve been
exploring has led me to this printmaking
process,” said Calve. “I feel like I am going
in a direction.”

Calve believes that her collagraphs reveal
her progression as an artist. “I’m more able
to take risks. There is an element of accident
and I’m not so attached to the art object as
I am to the process or experience. Whatever
ends up I’m pleased with it because of the
process it took to get me there. I’m no longer
afraid to show the aspects that come out
subconsciously,” she said.

Calve’s collagraphs will be on display in
her senior show this April. After graduating
this spring, Calve plans on continuing her
exploration with art. She is particularly
interested in pursuing art therapy as a career
because it would allow her to explore the
transformative aspect of art.

“TJ am fascinated by art’s capability to
educate people and change people’s way
of viewing the world,” said Calve. “What
greater purpose of art is there but to educate
or change people? I’d like to think that’s why
I make art.”

mee a TDSOme

Sat. 2/21

First Annual Davidso:
Women’s Leadership
Conference 8:30 a.m.
in Lilley Family Gal-
ler. Registration is
required.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009

__, Staff Writers

Another Valentine’s Day has come. and
gone, «And while some of us are left. with.
memories’ of boxes of chocolatey fragrant.
flowers and dinners at Restaurant.X, others:
‘among us have memories of a different sort.
We now present you with Davidson’s very.
‘own Valentine’s Day Hall of Fame. « :
One sophomore girk hada relationship
-with «a sophomore« boy, ‘leaning . more:
toward.“ the « weekend-physical - than. the
-weekday-emotional. Running Jate-for AT,
last: Valentine’s Day, she heard a. knock
cat her door, and there was her Patterson.
Court heartthrob. holding , flowers .and. a
card, ‘Expecting: her to: ‘already be. at AT.
‘where he himself was. headed, this shocked.
boy merely said. “These are for you!” The

two then proceeded. to take-the- gruelingly:

awkward walk4o AT session where they:
‘continued the. awkwardness for fifty minutes

‘current sophomore was ; eagerly. anticipating
her. first: V-Day with her. new boyfriend.,
“Hurrying to school on the 14th, she would
mot have ‘been surprised. to see roses and
‘balloons: ornamenting her locker. Instead,

she. was faced with her boyfriend’s empty:

‘hands. and a simple explanation. Blinded
by young love, she accepted his excuse that
he forgot presents, He promised. that. the
‘missing gifts: were: fabulous and that she,
would receivce them the next. day. The girl
was not disappointed; she got some. great
‘stuff, And her boyfriend got.it all for.a
‘great price: Proud of his accomplishments
he couldn’t help but express his excitement?

his girlfriend got all the same presents the:

other girls received, but for half the price at

‘later, this dejected eit discovered it was true.
‘love, after ally The economic and emotional:
‘demands of the Hallmark holiday were just.
too much. to bear for this boy. Valentine’ s
‘Day, though traditionally dedicated to Io
‘can also > bring heartache... ;

Sun. 2/22 Mon. 2/23 Tue. 2/24
Labyrinth now Career Services Career Services
open in Hobart Park. | Image Management Networking for Suc-

Workshop 10 a.m. cess Workshop
Ghost Sonata 2 p.m. Noon

CIAA Metrolina Ca-
Wilderness Ventures | reer Fair Information | Cavatina Duo
Information Session | Session Tyler-Tallman Hall
6 p.m. Union 313 Career Services Of- 7:30 p.m. Free for

fice 5 p.m. students but ticket

required.

