10 THe DAvIDSONIAN

Phillies look to make World Series history vs. Yanks

LocAn Lewis
Sports Section Editor

The Philadelphia Phillies are back in the
World Series for the second straight year,
looking for their second title in as many
years. They have the tough task of taking on
the highly talented and equally highly paid
New York Yankees tonight in Game 1 of the
series.

If the Phillies are going to succeed, they
will have to overcome more than just the un-
forgiving bats of Alex Rodriguez and Mark
Teixeira and the powerful pitching of C.C.
Sabathia and A.J. Burnett. They have to face
what is sometimes the most difficult oppo-
nent in sports — history.

History tells us that National League
teams who win the World Series, in all likeli-
hood, will not win it the next year. Only six
times in MLB history have NL teams been
able to repeat. No NL team has done it since
Pete Rose and the “Big Red Machine”
1976. The last NL team to win the pennant
two years in a row was the Atlanta Braves in
1996 who, coincidentally, proceeded to lose
to the Yankees.

The Phillies’ counterparts, the Yankees,
are arguably the most successful franchise
in all of sports history. In fact, the Yankees
have made repeating as World Series Cham-
pions look relatively easy. Their record in

SPORTS

the World Series when they have had the
chance to repeat is an exceptional 16-5. The
Yankees are making their 40th appearance
in the World Series and are looking for their
27th championship, the most of any MLB
franchise by far. In the Phillies and Yan-
kees most recent meeting in the World Series
(1950), the Yankees won 4-0.

More recent history, however, favors the
Phillies more so than the heralded Yankees.
In their last two appearances in the World Se-
ries, the Yankees have lost against underdog
teams like the Arizona Diamondbacks (2001)
and the Florida Marlins (2003). This season,
the head-to-head matchup has favored the
Phillies. While the Yankees lead the all-time
series 15-10, the Phillies won two out of
three in the season series this year in Yankees
Stadium.

This Fall Classic features some of the
most prominent players in the MLB. Former
Cy Young winners Pedro Martinez, Cliff Lee
and C.C. Sabathia along with World Series
MVPs Mariano Rivera and Cole Hamels will
toe the rubber against some of the best hitters
in the game. These sluggers include the likes
of former World Series MVP Derek Jeter and
regular-season MVPs Alex Rodriguez, Ryan
Howard and Jimmy Rollins.

This caliber of players is sure to produce
late inning drama and a long series of six or

seven games. In the past five years, three
of the Series have been four games sweeps
while the other two were only five games.

No World Series has gone the full length
of seven games since the Angels defeated the
Giants in 2002. With evenly matched teams
this season, I cannot imagine a Series that
will not go at least six games.

All the superstars aside, the teams’ bull-
pens could likely be the decisive factor in
who claims the championship. Besides
Mariano Rivera, the Yankees have no one in
the bullpen who has proved reliable this post-
season. Joba Chamberlain and Phil Hughes
have been the Yankees’ go-to-guys out of the
bullpen this season, but this postseason nei-
ther of them has performed consistently in
pressure-packed situations.

On the Phillies’ side, Brad Lidge, who
was perfect both in regular season and post-
season play last season, struggled throughout
this regular season. He blew 11] saves and
posted an earned run average of 7.21. In the
playoffs, Lidge has returned to his postsea-
son form of a year ago, but Philadelphia fans
still have to be nervous every time he comes
in to close the door with a small lead.

Now, it’s time to see how all of these ex-
citing matchups play out as the teams take the
field in Yankees Stadium tonight in Game 1
of what will hopefully be a fantastic Series.

Late goals stun ’Cats in heartbreaking losses

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s soccer team got off to a
great start this season, but recently has hit a
rough patch. They traveled to Blacksburg,
Virginia on Tuesday to face off against Vir-
ginia Tech but came up short and lost by a
score of 1-0.

Despite playing a great defensive game,
Davidson lost as a result of an own goal in
the last minute of play. Virginia Tech’s An-
drew Baden kicked the ball in the six yard
box off of a corner kick and it deflected off
a Davidson defender into the net giving Vir-
ginia Tech the 1-0 lead and the game.

Davidson had many offensive scoring at-
tempts but could not capitalize. In one in-
stance, Alex Caskey ’11 and Charlie Reiter
’10 had back-to-back scoring attempts with
18 minutes left in regulation but could not
convert. Yannick Pilgrim ’11 nearly scored
with 12 minutes remaining, but the Virginia
Tech keeper registered his third save on the
game.

In their last home conference match, Da-
vidson hosted Wofford on Senior Night on
Saturday. Putting up a great fight, they fell
by a score of 1-0, nearly sending the match
into overtime.

The Davidson crowd was immense and
there were over 1700 fans at Alumni Stadium
for the matchup against Wofford.

Until the 87:37 mark, the game was

Mark Millard 12 controls the ball as Alex Caskey 11 (left) trails the play during
the ’Cats’ 1-0 loss to Wofford on Saturday. Davidson travels to UNCG Saturday.

scoreless. Wofford’s Kentrel Owens took ad-
vantage on a ball misplayed at midfield and
sped past the fierce Davidson defense. Chip
Sanders ’12 came out to challenge Owens
and did a good job deflecting his first shot.
Owens collected the ball ten yards out and
was successful with his second attempt, to
put Wofford up 1-0 and seal the game.
Davidson played a great defensive game
despite the loss, only allowing one shot on

Football Field Hockey Men’s Soccer
(2-5, 2-3) (5-11, 1-5) (10-6-0, 3-3-0)
Results: Results: Results:

10/24 vs. Drake L 16-21

10/24 vs. App. State W 5-2

10/24 vs. Wofford LO-1
10/27 @ #2 Wake Forest L 1-4

Next Up:

Next Up:
10/31 @ Butler

Notes: Clare Perry ’11 and
Jenny Mostellar ’11 combined
recorded six sacks in Saturday’s for three goals and three assists
as the "Cats knotched their first

NorPac win of the season.

Notes: The Wildcat defense

loss to Drake as Tyler Lemons
”10 led the team with two sacks
on the afternoon.

10/31 vs. Longwood

Next Up:
10/31 @ UNCG
11/3 @ Campbell

Notes: The Wildcats conclude
conference play with a trip to
UNCG to take on the Spartans
in a game with major SoCon
tournament implications.

Notes: The ’Cats extended their

goal which decided the match. As it stands,
Davidson is third in the SoCon and has one
more match against a SoCon opponent, at
UNCG on Halloween.

The Wildcats lost 4-1 to No. 2 Wake For-
est on Tuesday night in Winston-Salem, N.C.
The Wildcats were just not able to keep up
with one of the best teams in the country.
This loss brings the ’Cats’ record to 10-6
overall and 3-3 in SoCon play.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Samford to take the. lead in. the efor by
inutes,’ but the Davidson D forced an

Women’s Soccer Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
O-9-1, 6-3-1) (6-20, 3-7) Cross Country
Results: Results: Results:
10/23 @ Chattanooga W 4-2 10/23 vs. WCU W 3-2 Of s:
10/25 @ Samford T 1-1 10/25 vs. App. State W 3-2
Next Up:
Next Up: Next Up: . :
10/31 vs. Georgia Southern 10/30 vs. Wofford 10/31 Socon ene ampionships

10/31 vs. Furman

unbeaten streak to five games
with Sunday’s tie at Samford.

Notes: With a pair of come-
from-behind victories, the Wiid-
cats won back-to-back games for

the first time this season.

Notes: The Wildcats took a week

off in preparation for next week’s
Southern Conference Champion-
ships to be held at Elon Univer-

sity.
