he place you call home says a ot about: you. ‘But shome”
ore than a vacation Spot during summer and Christmas

In fact, rm from Mayberry. * Mayberry, however, doesn’t t
exist; 10'S" the name of.a fictional town from the 1950’s TV
program “The Andy. Griffith Show? Mt. Airy, my town’s
actual name and Mayberry’s real life inspiration, is the basis
of the idea of quintessential, small town America—a concept
that today lives on exclusively in TVLand re-runs. . But. for
those of you who aren’t couch potatoes or nostalgic for the
days of Elvis and Marilyn Monroe, my point is that the idea
of “home,” fictional or not, is-a mindset that defines you.
As: The Davidsonian’s incoming Editor, I'd like to share a
recently encountered new perspective on the community we
all live in for the majority of the years 3
_ This past summer was the first summer + that T’ve spent
in the town of Davidson...1 bused tables at Restaurant. X, 1
bought my: Aruits-and vegetables: at the Davidson Farmers’
Market on Saturday mommin T went to each of the events
in the Concert on the Green series ¢
a picnic basket and a beach tow
years ‘of attending Davidson Coll
oe m1

feel. the mare at home j
u on in your hometown,

Editors-in-Chief
Brett Willis
Managing Editor
Katherine Miller
«News Editors
_Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith...
Arts & Living Editor =~ ~~
“ Jennifer Gambrell
<<;  Xowl Editors
; “Alex Greening
“, _ Sports Editors oa
{ike Frongello & Logan Lewis ~
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
~~ Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
: Online Editor ;
Greg Newman ~
Assistant Copy Baitor
Alex Kowaleski ,
Photography Staff ;
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College.

Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or
$30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for
advertising inquiries.

Scotr MATTHEWS
Guest Columnist

The Chinese, with the effort of their massive government
spending, have just ramped up their green initiatives
particularly in producing solar PV cells used to harness
the sun’s energy and turn it into electricity. They are using

adapted American technology and plants inside the United.

States to avoid the protectionist tariffs on foreign goods. At
their increased rate, they will soon surpass the United States
as a greener producer particularly if they continue to apply
pressure while the United States continues to pass only
symbolic 2.3 billion dollar tax credits. This is scary stuff.

If America does indeed fall behind
China as it fell behind the Middle
Eastern, energy rich nations, it
could well be the beginning of the
end of the American way of life.

In his books “The World Is Flat” and “Hot Flat And
Crowded,” New York Times economist Thomas L. Friedman
convincingly argues that the next great round of prosperity
for the United States will be the result of a national green
revolution. This would be similar to the American creation,
production, and exportation of automobiles and airplanes
before other countries developed the technologies. Both
common sense and Friedman say that such a national
revolution would be large enough to cause a sustained period
of prosperity for the United States. The only question is: why
hasn’t Congress or President Obama gotten the ball rolling on
multiple green fronts?

The possible cost of not becoming the world leader in
alternative clean energy could sink America. Currently
“green-tech” contains the economic power to lift the country
that spearheads it into superpower status. It is simply
imperative that the United States lead this charge into the
Global Green Revolution or it will be the start of a downward
spiral resulting in America re-joining the league of ordinary
nations.

It is simply imperative that the
United States lead this charge into
the Global Green Revolution or
it will be the start of a downward
spiral resulting in America rejoin-
ing the league of ordninary na-
tions.

If America does indeed fall behind China as it fell behind
the Middle Eastern, energy rich nations, it could well be the
beginning of the end of the American way of life. What we
are seeing now is the price of mortgaging our future for the
benefit of the present. We bought so much oil that we grew
complacent rather than hungry for further innovation.

Over the past thirty years America has stopped serving
its purpose in the world economy, which according to Mr.
Friedman is “creating the future.” When you think about it,
its true. Throughout the 20th century, other industrialized
nations were constantly playing technology catch up with the
United States; we were always a step ahead.

There will be a legislative battle
that will cost hundreds of billions
(if not trillions) of dollars, and it
will affect nearly every initiative of
the government, from education to
housing and urban development.

For years, that was America’s position in the global
community. We were the world’s innovators and inventors,
we were “creating the future” and it was indeed a prosperous

CTIVES

Innovation must be at USA’s core

THE DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDaY,
SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

lifestyle. But now, the wheels have stopped turning. Maybe
we became too complacent, maybe we became too focused
on our national security, or maybe we became so ingrained in
a service economy that we stopped innovating and inventing.
By the time the competing nations were able to produce the
same goods as us for a fraction of the cost, there was no next
great thing for America.

The possible cost of not becom-
ing the world leader in alternative

clean energy could sink America.

So now we come to the question, “What the heck should
we do now?” It is indeed a difficult question to answer.
Everyone who has the power to shape our future is either
complacent, pandering to special interests or is unable to get
a legislative majority together in order to pick the USA up
by her boot straps and kick-start those long silent wheels of
America’s brain trust.

Everyone who has the power to
shape our future is either compla-
cent, pandering to special interests

or is unable to get a legislative
majority together in order to pick
the USA up by her bootstraps and
kick-start those long silent wheels

of America’s brain trust

It is an enormous challenge. There will be a legislative
battle that will cost hundreds of billions (if not trillions)
of dollars, and it will affect nearly every initiative of
the government, from education to housing and urban
development. Our leaders, both the elder statesmen of the
previous generation and the new gung-ho representatives
of the new generation will need to follow the lead of a
Democratic president and re-create America. We need to go
over every single line of government policy and remove non-
functioning programs while pouring money and resources
into more important ones.

America needs an overhauled health care system.
Employees with benefits simply work better than those
without them; it is an indisputable fact. Next (or possible
simultaneously) America needs to raise its CAFE (fuel
economy) standards and demand that American auto
manufactures produce a 40-50 m.p.g. car while continuing to
work on a 60-70 m.p.g. version.

If America does indeed fall behind
China as it fell behind the Middle
Eastern, energy rich nations, it
could well be the beginning of the
end of the American way of life.

Furthermore, America needs to heavily invest in green
technology to help American companies supply the world
with equipment to capture the energy of the sun, in some
cultures the energy of god. Also, America needs to invest in
its future by ensuring that every child goes to high school
and college; our math and science rankings world wide show
that our complacency will make us a far weaker society
than we are today. Finally, America needs to cut frivolous
military spending, we need to stop buying equipment that we
don’t use and put our resources in the best places possible,
in communications, in diplomatic efforts, and in foreign
relations because neighbors who talk and share rarely fight.

What I’ve just described may be nearly impossible.
However, if such an effort is framed and marketed correctly to
the American people, it will have the power to restore America
to its former status as the world’s only true superpower.

Its time to wake up!

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich,
CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu, or at
