10 Tre DAvIDSONIAN

7 -_ xs” {=e

SPORTS

Women’ s Basketball: The Pure Game

Ashley Lax 11 shot 87.3 percent from the foul line and over 41 percent from behind
the three-point line for the Wildcats during the 2008-2009 season. Women’s basket-
ball continues to grow in popularity and carve its own niche in the basketball world.

. Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Each April the sports world buzzes with
talk of the NCAA Final Four, the Masters and
the beginning of the new baseball season.
And rightfully so. For many sports fans, this
time of year represents the pinnacle of our
viewing experience.

Many fans treat the Final Four as a holi-
day, taking off work in order to watch the
top teams in the nation collide one last time.
Lost in the shuffle, however, is a sport that
provides much of the same action and drama,
with very little of the fanfare: NCAA Wom-
en’s Basketball. ;

I must admit that I have long been in
the camp that would immediately turn off
the television or change the channel when
women’s basketball appeared on the screen.
Despite being a basketball fanatic, I loathed
the women’s game. While I still believe that
the WNBA has botched its marketing and be-
come a watered-down, less exciting version
of the NBA, I have grown to really enjoy the
women’s game in college.

Unfortunately, men’s college hoops has
become increasingly similar to the NBA.
Players are allowed to travel at will, and the
game revolves around athletes, dunks, exces-
sive physicality, and showmanship. Funda-
mentals are taking a back seat to raw athleti-
cism and power at least in the upper echelon
of the men’s game. This is truly a shame.

The women’s game has become one of
the few television outlets for basketball pur-
ists that would prefer to see a perfectly ex-
ecuted backdoor cut than an overpowering

to watch remarkable athletes play a beautiful
game. Unfortunately, we have not gotten to
see much of that.

Women’s basketball has provided an
outlet for the basketball purist in me. While
dunks happen in women’s basketball, they
are few and far between. Instead, players are
forced to finish with both hands with nifty
moves around the hoop. I enjoy watching
that far more than a freakish athlete throwing
down a thunderous slam.

The men are still fun to watch. Bracket
fever sweeps the country, and the men’s
NCAA Tournament is still the greatest spec-
tacle in sports. But, the women’s game has
begun to carve its niche in the college bas-
ketball world. In many cases, it has even be-
come a more enjoyable game for basketball
purists to watch.

Try watching a women’s game this week.
I promise that you won’t see a LeBron James
“crab dribble” or any player take it from 25
feet in for a layup while only dribbling once,
a la Kyle Singler in Duke’s Sweet Sixteen
loss to Villanova (even worse, the commen-
tators lauded his “move,” which consisted of
one dribble and five steps). You will see fun-
damental, exciting, and solid basketball.

Who knows, maybe you’ll even enjoy it
the game has as much entertainment value. It as I have grown to.
doesn’t. I am also not saying that the men’s
game has lost all of its allure. It hasn’t. Iam
saying that the women’s game has become
worth watching in the face of the growing
sloppiness of men’s college basketball.

Make it a point to watch the women’s
team from the University of Connecticut
play over the next week. The Huskies have
yet to lose a game this season (barring a mon-
umental upset between the time I write this
article and the time you read it) and in fact
have yet to have even a single-digit margin
of victory. :

UConn has the best talent in the country
by a long shot. But that is not why they are
worth watching. The Huskies switch de-
fenses constantly. The consistently move
on offense and make the extra pass to find
the open shooter. They understand when to
push the ball up the floor and when to hold
back and run a set play. While college men
have idolized NBA players and try to emu-
late them with inferior talent, women see the
college game as the epitome of their playing
experience.

Only in extremely rare cases do women
leave early to play professionally. The same
Connecticut team that has, along with Ten-
nessee, dominated the women’s game for the
past decade has graduated every single one
of its athletes. That, in itself, is remarkable.
Contrast that with UConn’s men’s team,
which boasts a graduation rate of thirty-three
percent.

I have become somewhat disillusioned
with how the men’s game is played and offi-
ciated. I do not pay to watch a football game

Baseball, from page 12

Davidson did not fare as well in their
loss to Appalachian State 15-5 in the second
game. Appalachian rode a six run seventh in-
ning to blow-out the Wildcats on the road.
Davidson churned through eight pitchers in
the game. Mac Read ’’11 was the pitcher to
complete a run-less inning.

Chris Kennedy made the start, making
it through only three innings while giving
up four runs on six hits to the big-swinging

‘WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

Davidson. and has’ been an assistant
: head basketball coach Bob McKillo :

Mountaineer lineup.

Chase Fitzpatrick and Brady continued to
hit well. Fitzpatrick went two for three with
three runs and Brady went two for three with
one run and two RBI to lead the offensive
attack for Davidson.

After the weekend series, Davidson
travel to face the fifth-rankedUniversity of
North Carolina Tar Heels at Chapel Hill on
Tuesday. The ’Cats lost 9-4 in a hard fought
game. This challenging game moved their
overall record to 10-12 (5-4 in conference).

oto epitrtesy of davidsonbaseball, com :

dunk on a breakaway. I am not saying that played on hardwood floors. Instead, I pay

ildcat Roundu

Baseball Golf Men’s Tennis
(10-12, 5-4) (5-10, 1-3)
: Results:
Results: 327-3/29 Furman Intercollegiate . Results:
3/29 vs. App. State W 9-8 15th place 3/28 vs. UNCG L 2-5
3/29 vs. App. State L 5-15
3/31 @ No. 5 UNC L4-9 Next Up: Next Up:
* 4/3 Marshall Invitational 4/1 vs. Elon
Next Up: 4/4 @ CofC
4/3-4/6 @ Samford Notes: 4/5 @ Ga. Southern

Michael Saari ’09 recorded a
Notes: two-day score of 154 on his
Following a split with Appalachian way to a 35th place in the Fur-
State in arain-shortened SoCon —_— man Intercollegiate over the
series, the Wildcats are in fifth weekend.
place in the standings heading into
an important conference series at
Samford.

Notes:

The ’Cats hope to end their
three-game losing streak as
they continue their conference
schedule with three SoCon
matches this week.

Danny Weiss "11 went 3 for 4 at the plate including a three-run home run in the fifth
inning during the Wildcats’ 9-8 victory o over Appalachian State on ) Sunday.

Lacrosse Track an Field
(5-6)
Results
Results: 3/28 Weems Baskin Relays

3/28 @ Lehigh L 4-18 @ University of South Carolina

‘Cancelled- Rain

Next Up:
4/4 @ Navy
Next Up:
Notes: 4/3 Duke Invitational
The injury plagued Wildcats 4/4 Liberty Collegiate
fell under .500 for the first Invitational
time this year with the loss to
Lehigh.
Notes:

The Weems Baskin Relays were
cancelled due to rain over the
weekend.

Women’s Tennis
(9-8, 4-2)

Results
3/27 vs. Cal State W 7-0
3/28 @ Chattanooga W 4-3
3/29 @ Samford W 4-3

Next Up:
4/1 vs. UNCG
4/3 vs. Charlotte
4/7 vs. App. State

Notes:
The Wildcats moved up to 4th
place in the SoCon standings
with an impressive 3-0 week.
