10 THE DavIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Vick in search of second chance

LocGan Lewis
Sports Editor

Michael Vick played in an NFL game
Thursday night as a member of the Philadel-
phia Eagles in a preseason matchup with the
Jacksonville Jaguars. This was his first NFL
action since his conditional reinstatement
by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, after
serving 18 of a 23 month prison sentence for
running a dogfighting ring. Vick took the
field with birds of a different feather in his
first game since December 31, 2006 when
the Eagles beat his former team, the Atlanta
Falcons, to end the regular season.

On the field, Vick looked rusty to say the
least. He participated in six snaps, one at
wide receiver. He completed all four passes
which he attempted for a total of 19 yards.
Two of these plays were shovel passes and
one was a swing pass to a running back while
one was a nicely timed 13-yard completion
to Hank Baskett.

While his performance was not excep-
tional, he showed that he can still play foot-
ball in the NFL. He will also keep defensive
coordinators up late at night pondering how
to stop such an incredible athlete in the new-
ly popular “wildcat” formation. After the
game, Vick reported that he was at about 70
percent, which I consider to be outstanding,
having been removed from football for more

than two years.

Vick will not be eligible to play in regular
season games until Commissioner Goodell
makes his final ruling by week six (October
18-19). This suspension until the middle of
October will allow Vick to hone his skills
and get back to 100 percent in time to help
the Eagles win a competitive NFC East this
season.

Vick is scheduled to play in the Eagles’
final preseason game this Thursday night
against the New York Jets in the Meadow-
lands. Although his amount of playing time
is still uncertain, the uproar and publicity
surrounding him every time he touches the
field is not.

Now that Vick is back on an NFL team,
a flood of controversy envelopes him off the
field. Protesters plead that his crimes were
so great that he does not deserve a second
chance to play a sport professionally. Some
have threatened to boycott his games and
others have claimed that they will hold rallies
protesting his employment with the Eagles.
Those who are crazed with hate toward Vick
are now taking it upon themselves to wreck
his livelihood, to prevent him from making a
living in his profession.

While I think that the crimes Michael
Vick committed were heinous offenses, I dis-
agree with those who seem to have forgotten
about the American system of justice. When

someone commits a crime and pleads guilty,
he or she receives due punishment, and after
serving the required time goes back to a nor-
mal lifestyle. Apparently, those who detest
Michael Vick do not believe in this demo-
cratic system of justice that has governed this
country for some 200 years.

Michael Vick pleaded guilty to running
an illegal dogfighting operation. He admit-
ted his guilt and suffered the consequences.
He served 18 months in federal prison. He
is also currently suffering from a 20 million
dollar bankruptcy. If that’s not enough, he
missed out on 18 months of his three chil-
dren’s lives. These were all self-inflicted
consequences, but it does not change the fact
that Vick suffered all of these things in the
public eye while others who have been guilty
of much worse (even other major sports
stars) didn’t suffer nearly the same public
persecution.

He apologized to millions of people,
vowing to promote awareness to stop dog-
fighting. Tony Dungy, one of the most well
respected individuals ever to be associated
with the NFL, has graciously chosen to take
Vick under his wing so that he can get his
life back together both on and off the field.
Now that Vick has turned over a new leaf, the
public should do the same. Vick has done his
time and has suffered unfathomable conse-
quences. Let him do his job.

Caskey *11 voted to preseason All-SoCon team ||
as Wildcats prepare to begin season Friday

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN

Staff Writer

Davidson men’s soccer team will enjoy
the perk of experience for the 2009-2010
season. Along with nine starters, seven se-
niors will also return to Davidson this year
to lead the team. In addition, Davidson
brings in four new freshman athletes for the
future of the program.

Like in past years, Davidson Soccer and
head coach Matt Spear has prepared a chal-
lenging non-conference slate to get his team
prepared for Southern Conference play. The
2009-2010 schedule includes three teams
that competed in the NCAA tournament last
year. NCAA giants like Duke, South Caro-
lina, Virginia Tech and Wake Forest will
provide intense challenges and fierce com-
petition to prepare the team for the confer-
ence season.

When it comes to talent, Davidson has
a wealth of it. One player in particular
needs to be recognized. Alex Caskey °11
was named to the preseason All-Southern
Conference team on Thursday. Last year,
he registered 10 points including 4 assists
which led the team.

aferay

Adding more anticipation and mystery to
the season is the battle for the goal. Three
experienced players, Robby Goldsberry ’10,
Matt McElroy °1] and Chip Sanders 712 will
compete for the opportunity to start in the
box this season. While Goldsberry is the fa-
vorite, starting 13 of 15 matches last season,
no true starter is yet declared.

“There’s a lot of excitement within the
team given the influx of new freshman and
new assistant coach,” said midfielder Josh
Zipin ’11, “We have to perform this year and
finish in the top four in the conference so we
have an opportunity to compete for a South-
em conference title in the postseason. It’s go-
ing to be difficult, but we’re excited for the
challenge.”

Davidson will have three home matches
to kick off the season. In this manner, David-
son will be able to mount an enormous ad-
vantage if they can capitalize on their early
home matches to build momentum.

Davidson hosts USC-Upstate on Saturday
at 7 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. The following
week, Davidson plays UNC-Asheville and
Coastal Carolina when they host the Adidas
Classic. The season should prove to be ex-
hilarating and very successful due to the ex-
perience and talent of the squad this year.

pTa[T lo

Football Field Hockey Men’s Soccer
(0-0) (1-1) (0-0)
Results: Results: Results:
8/29 vs. Ball State L 1-2
8/30 vs. Sacred Heart W 1-0
Next Up:
Next Up: Next Up: 9/5 vs. USC-Upstate

9/5 @ #11 Elon

Notes:

The Wildcats face a stern early
season test as they travel to
Elon to take on the nationally-
ranked Pheonix.

Notes:
Davidson’s defense looked
sharp in the opening weekend
limiting its oponents to just two

9/4 @ Georgetown
9/5 vs. Cornell (@ GU)
9/8 vs. #4 UNC

Notes:

Alex Caskey ’11 was voted
to the preseason All-Southern
Conference team after earning

postseason All-Conference

honors last year.

voals in two cames._

track in Fridav’s home onener

Midfielder Alex Caskey ’11, left, was
voted preseason All-Southern Confer-
ence by the league’s coaches after

leading the Wildcats with four assists
and ten points in the 2008 season.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

Fifteen minutes into the sécond half,
ink notched her second goal of the se
on in the chaotic aftermath of a free kic
inally,the- *Cats ‘proved they ‘could score.
gainst impressive ACC competition, and.
from there, the team can only’ build its _
nfidencé, Cain topped off her hat trick,
during the subsequent Wolfpack posses~
Sion, and the score remained frozen at4-le

until the finale. :

held relatively close in the shot column,
pare six:to.10, Ward recorded two saves :

Thanks to “the career. game“ from Baxa, :
however, the 0-1 fally at halftime did no

© Despite. the: cleat challenge of this
atchup, Davidson did not fail to throw
_ some: positive “performances, - Bax:
amed77 minutes of playing time with |
ve saves in the face of 12-shots,/Ward
osed the. game: out in goal with a pair.
f her own saves, On the offensive front,
w and Conner returned to shot column
long with Courtney Hart 710 and Rache

ble to the team’s. ‘dévelopment. Especial
since they won't factor into the SoCo

ps will seem more conquerable. «
The ’Cats continue their difficult pre
ason schedule this weekend against Vil
anova and Francis Marion. Both game
will take place in the familiar surround
ngs. of Alumni, Stadium.. The. Wildcat:
rom the Big East will come to town at ae
.m, on Friday Sept,4 while the Sunday :
zame against Francis Mari o kicks off.at

Women’s Soccer Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
(1-2) (0-4) Cross Country

Results: Results: Results:

8/22 @ Winthrop W 3-1 8/28 vs. Campbell L 1-3 esults:
8/28 @ N.C. State L 1-4 8/28 Charleston Southern L 1-3

8/30 @ UNCW L0-4 8/29 vs. Morgan State L 1-3
8/29 vs. N.C. State L 1-3
Next Up:

Next Up:
9/4 vs. Villanova
9/6 vs. Francis Marion

Next Up:
9/5 @ High Point
9/5 vs. Marshall (@ HPU)

for three cames thic weekend.

9/5 Eye Opener at USC-Upstate
@ Spartanburg, S.C.

Notes: 9/6 vs, WSSU (@ HPU) __ Notes:
. The men’s cross country team
After dropping two out of three : oe
. was selected to firnish third in the
on the road to begin the season, Notes: Southern Conf,
the ‘Cats look to get back on ‘The Wildcats head to High Point °OUNErm Conterence preseason

poll released last week.
