] difficulties facing’ The has fared 5 seems she many of
pthese rumors. are unfounded and overstated 50 we-would

2

_ compensate advertising and ‘circulation manager, as well,

as paper distributors, In total; we-expect around §9,800 in.

: ane enormous sum, and it is. But we ‘would like students to
_ temember that we pay for the large majority of our budget

«received $11,750 from the ATC this. year, The-rest of
_ our reyenue comes:from two sources —subseriptions and:
4 _ advertising. Last year, we brought in neatly B22 51 500 from,

hes: same manner as past years, We ean ‘only’ speculate
_ more readers a ares eimming to our Web site for access;

. subscription orders and donations onlines This will allow
sto reach potential subscribers in a more. direct manne
While we are yery ‘concerned about our finances, wear
using this situation as incentive to develop more efficient
_ practices: and. better record-keeping, With any luck-w
- _ will emerge from this semester. with only afew thousand,
_ dollars'in debt, We will also have more reliable methods.
or reaching subscribers and monitoring our budget, «.

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
° Managing Editor
Kate Kelly
News Editors
“ Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
é Perspectives Editors
f _ Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Ce Arts & Living Editor
Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editor
Alex Greening
Sports Editors |; -
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis “2 oe
Head Copy Editors .
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Assistant Copy Editor
Alex Kowaleski
The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please

address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Advertising rates are
available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

-dssue and section. editors get $20. We also use payroll i

TIVES

* LETTER TO THE EDITOR °

Tur DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Fesruary 18, 2009

| A death in Vienna: Maloy deserves recognition

On Feb. 5, The Charlotte Observer proclaimed in a front-
page story in the sports section: “Davidson Great Dies.”
It referred to the death in Austria last week of three-time
basketball All-American Mike Maloy—heralded by Coach
Lefty Driesell as “the best player [Davidson College] ever
had.” He “was the most consistent player I ever had. He
never had a bad game,” Maloy led the Wildcats to back-to-
back NCAA regional tournament finals in 1968 and 1969.
He remains the school’s all-time leading rebounder; and
seventh leading scorer (1661 points)with a 19 points per
game average.

But today’s students would never know who Lefty was
talking about if they looked for his retired jersey (# 15)
hanging above Belk Arena, or checked the list of athletes in
the College’s Hall of Fame. Mike Maloy was a sharp and
joyful student from Bryant High School in Long Island City
(Queens). Coach Terry Holland accurately remembered him

s “one of the most enjoyable human beings that I have
ever been around.” Mike was in my course on “Southern
Politics” —that’s right—at a time when the student body was
overwhelmingly white males from southeastern states.

Despite the fact that he did not graduate from Davidson
College, Lefty is absolutely nght when he makes the case

that Mike should be in the College’s Hall of Fame. It gives
me “the blues” to read about Mike’s passing.

William E. Jackson Jr. ’57, a for-
mer professor of political science
at the College, currently resides
in Davidson, N.C. Contact him at
jackson92135@hotmail.com.

j Political processes need revamping

Webster Doctrine In the debate over the stimulus

: bill in Congress last week, by far

. the most significant voices were,

*, strangely, Senators Arlen Specter,
- Susan Collins, and Ben Nelson.

Of course, their opinions weren’t
significant because they chaired the
relevant committees, or because
they hold leadership positions
within their parties, or because they
are respected for their expertise in
managing the economy; they were
important because these three are
the 59th, 60th, and 61st most liberal
senators in Congress, and the 59th, 60th, and 61st members
are significant because of the filibuster.

In today’s Senate, a filibuster is used against virtually
every major piece of legislation, meaning that any meaningful
action Congress takes requires a 60-vote supermajority of
the Senate, a chamber where the Washington DC’s 590,000
residents have no representation, while Wyoming’s 530,000
have the same weight as California’s 36 million.

This end result here is highly undemocratic and unique
among other established democracies, and it renders our
government pointlessly unresponsive to popular opinion.

Furthermore, the filibuster isn’t that deeply rooted in our
system; it’s not in the Constitution, but is in fact part of the
rules that the Senate works by and regularly changes.

While the practice has traditionally been considered a
measure of last resort for the minority, it has only become
common practice in the last few years —and there were nearly
twice as many filibusters in the most recent congress as any
preceding one.

In the current congress, all three major bills passed have
done so on the cloture votes necessary to end filibusters.
This is why things like health care reform, on which
Democrats, who have a 59-seat majority in the Senate, are
almost completely unified on and on which they have strong
public opinion polling in their favor, will still be risky and
contentious political fights.

Now, defenders of the practice will argue that the
filibuster is a necessary check on majority power, and in any
other system, they might be right. In the U.S., however, there
are already a huge number of checks on majority power that
are far more legitimate and rooted in the constitution than the
filibuster.

We have two houses of Congress that are elected in very
different ways. and both can block legislation. We have a
committee system that allows individual legislators to hold up
legislation. We have a Supreme Court that can rule legislation
unconstitutional. And we have a separately elected president
with the power to veto bills.

The filibuster is only critical for parties like today’s
Republicans, who don’t control the Presidency, have a
minority in the House, have a minority in the Senate, don’t
control the relevant congressional committees, can’t count

on a constitutional challenge, and can’t expect significant
numbers of the majority party to break ranks, all because
they’ve been beaten soundly and consistently and are
incredibly unpopular.

When you still protect the minority in this situation, the
result isn’t prudent consideration of minority interests, it is
constant deadlock and a government that doesn’t respond to
the outcome of elections.

The filibuster isn’t fair, isn’t part of the founder’s design,
and doesn’t produce good results. And yet there is no reason
to think that we will actually do away with this dysfunctional
institution, or that it’s the only part of our democratic process
that exists through coincidence and unintended consequences
and yet still undermines our democracy.

Our bizarre presidential primary system, in which lowa and
New Hampshire have tremendous and inexplicable influence,
the first contests take place nearly a full year before the new
President will take office, and a group of superdelegates can
override the outcome of primary elections in the Democratic
Party, is one of the more egregious examples.

Other inexplicable institutions, like the electoral college,
the composition of the Senate, and Washington DC’s lack of
congressional representation might have made sense over
200 years ago when the Constitution was written, but hardly
justify themselves today.

But despite the fairly clear flaws of these systems, and
the degree to which they are unique among established
democracies, pressure to reform them is practically
nonexistent.

A big part of this is the result of short-term political
considerations: Democrats don’t want the Republicans to
do away with the filibuster when they are in the minority,
Republicans don’t want D.C. to be represented in Congress
because it would elect liberal Democrats, and so forth.

Yet even amongst people that consider themselves
objective observers, there is a near-universal acceptance of
these institutions.

Washington Post and New York Times editorials will
endlessly complain about special interests, partisan gridlock,
or the failure of candidates to use pubic financing, but they
never address the structure of the system in which these
decisions are made, or the pernicious effects of the flaws that
exist.

Yet there is no good reason to passively accept that
candidates for president don’t hold campaign rallies in “safe”
states, or that Jowa’s caucuses are a crucial part of primary
races, or that any legislation should require an absurd 60-seat
supermajority. This is a mistake. Any system of government
will have its various flaws and blind spots.

What we need to remember is that these flaws only exist
because we don’t bother to change them. The results of old
compromises and the unforeseen side effects of old customs
don’t need to hold our political process hostage.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.
