2 Tre DAVMSONIAN

El

News

Ep ee

Annual Reynolds Lecture =

KELSEY LILLEY
News Editor

Acclaimed authors—and sisters—Eliza-
beth Gilbert and Catherine Gilbert Murdock
will speak Monday night as guests of this
year’s Reynolds Lecture.

Gilbert is the author of the New York
Times best seller, “Eat, Pray, Love,” written
as a memoir of her world travels after get-
ting divorced. Gilbert is also the author of
“The Last American Man,” the true story of
Eustace Conway, a man who has been living
in the Appalachian Mountains, living off the
land, for the past 20 years. “The Last Ameri-
can Man” has been acclaimed as “[t]he finest
examination of American masculinity and
wilderness since Jon Krakauer’s ‘Into The
Wild’” by Outside Magazine.

Gilbert’s sister, Catherine Gilbert Mur-
dock, is a young adult novelist who is author
of the “Dairy Queen” trilogy that follows
the story of DJ Schwenk, a young girl who
grows up in Wisconsin on a dairy farm, and
her friendship with her school’s rival football
team star.

Young adult novelist Catherine Gilbert Murdock

acl oe
SCHOO

Elizabeth Gilbert, author of “Eat, Pray, Love.”

The authors and sisters grew up in Con-
necticut on a Christmas tree farm. After col-
lege, Gilbert spent time traveling, writing
and working. She has continually worked as
a journalist for magazines like SPIN and O,
Oprah’s magazine. According to her website,
the movie “Coyote Ugly” was adapted from
Gilbert’s memoir about her years spent bar-
tending, after first being published in GQ.

Gilbert Murdock was the self-professed
“empress” of the Young Adult literature col-
lection of her local library growing up. She
writes of her love of the genre on her web-
site, “When someone recommends a book,
I immediately ask, ‘Is it for grownups? Be-
cause I don’t read those.’ This followed by
‘Does it have dragons?’” Gilbert Murdock
spent years as a screenwriter before penning
“Dairy Queen,” which was called “[a] breath
of fresh air” by The New York Times.

Gilbert and Gilbert Murdock will be shar-
ing their experiences and work beginning at
8 p.m. on Monday in Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall. Tickets are free, but required,

and are available at the Union Ticket Office.
panes

: Sop

We

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

10/13/09 01:24 Vehicle Stop

Officer observed a white vehicle roll through the stop sign at the intersection of Baker
Drive and Patterson Court Circle. Reporting officer was driving behind the vehicle as it
approached and ran the stop sign. Reporting officer followed the vehicle to Ridge Road
and made the traffic stop when the vehicle pulled into a parking space at Martin Court B
building. The vehicle was operated by a Davidson student. Reporting officer asked the
subject if she knew why she was being stopped to which she replied no. The reporting
officer advised her of the stop sign violation. Reporting officer issued a verbal warning.
No further action was taken.

10/15/09 13:30 Alarm

Officer responded to 161 Dunmurry Rd., storage units, in reference to an interior alarm.
Reporting officer spoke with an employee, who stated that they had accidentally acti-
vated the alarm upon entry into the RLO storage unit. No police action needed.

10/16/09 18:50 Fire

Officer received a call on the officer cell phone from an unknown female caller advising
that the fire alarm was activated at Flowe apartments. Reporting officer arrived at Flowe
simultaneously with Davidson Fire Department. A Davidson student advised that she
had steamed up the bathroom to get some wrinkles out of her dress causing the alarm to
activate. Davidson Fire reset the alarm and no further action was taken.

10/18/09 12:00 Damage to Property

Officer was passing by Ryburn Apartments on Ridge Rd. when he noticed the lamp of

a lamppost on the sidewalk. The lamppost was undamaged and the lamp was undam-
aged, excluding the bulb inside. It is unknown how the lamp was displaced from the
post but Officer had checked the area for vehicle break-ins at 0715 hrs and had driven
by the Apartment building twice between 0700 hrs and 0830 hrs with no damage being
observed. Due to the height of the pole and the lack of damage to it, nor any panes dam-
aged in the lamp, it is possible that the lamp fell off on its own. There had been signifi-
cant breezes throughout the morning and numerous other lamps in the area show a slight
lean. The officer took photos of the scene.

Sashes tases ridin 5s)
: probity nash gs ch gs Wes Dleap aie.

‘pals feodualltcte daly pies seltleidy p19 des

$i ecLaled Gnd cys tema daly eddies Lay hd
sulla alii nando Pach JF ube ale paris aed sassy
‘kkpasrts Sa en yy aac

5

