THE DAVIDSONIAN

Strategic Plan, from page 1

nity. Small class size, liberal arts focus and
sense of community ranked as the top three
issues that needed to be addressed in future
Strategic assessments.

President Ross appointed an “I team” of
five faculty and staff to lead the strategic de-
velopment process. Five study groups formed
in the fall of 2007 exploring five areas (the
liberal arts, demographics, globalization, re-
gional change and technology) in which ex-
ternal forces would have a significant impact
on Davidson in the upcoming years.

From these foci, 21 other, more specific

“This is the first time a
president has committed to
creating a comprehensive
strategic plan. It is certain-
ly a tribute to Tom Ross’s
leadership”

-Dr. Verna Case

\

groups formed, comprised of faculty and staff
who were asked to serve on the teams based
on their areas of interest on particular issues.
Students were later added to certain teams.
The teams explored teaching and learning,
integration of knowledge, diversity and in-
clusivity, global community and sustainable

ps —~

News

community. Each was asked to imagine two
different scenarios for the purpose of bounc-
ing ideas and creating reactions from the
Situations.

The first, called Hedgehog, had a focus
on studying in depth, with full emphasis on
the academic programs and digging deep into
subject matter. The second, the Fox, focused
on breadth of education.

One year later, all of the groups met to-
gether to discuss what they could draw from
each scenario to bring to Davidson. After
this, another committee formed for curricu-
lum development in order to actually write
strategies.

All of the groups understood from the be-
ginning that certain ideals about Davidson,
such as honor, respect, community and trust,
should never change.

Dr. Verna Case of the Biology depart-
ment, member of the “I team,” called these
the “sacred cows” of Davidson, and while
they were not part of the strategies, they were
considered part of the heart of the college,
and the assumption is that they will continue
for as long as the school stands.

While the different committees have pro-
posed small changes to the ways Davidson
operates, for example, making slight modi-
fications in freshmen orientation, diversity
increases or the way the core curriculum
works, Davidson will not morph into a dif-
ferent school than it has been in years past.

Actions growing out of the strategic plan
are forthcoming, some which will probably
be announced this year. Davidson’s next

k la ia

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009 3

Be

Students gather in the 900 Room Monday night for the celebration of Diwali, the
Hindu Festival of Lights. ACAA, Curry Club and Interfaith teamed up to provide
Indian food, henna, eyebrow threading, classical singing and a live prayer ser-

vice, all free of charge, for students.

steps are to create a facilities master strategic
plan and a financial plan to pursue the devel-
opment of ideas from the strategic plan.
Excited about the plan, President Ross
looks forward to the next steps: “The plan
developed with input from a lot of people,
alumni, faculty, staff and students, and it
does represent a consensus on our direction.

It provides a road map to the future, and as
circumstances change around us we have to
act upon them and make better decisions.”

In her 35 years at Davidson, Dr. Case
noted, “This is the first time a president has
committed to creating a comprehensive stra-
tegic plan. It is certainly a tribute to Tom
Ross’s leadership.”

Lutheran Corps seeks student volunteer workers

KatiE VOEGTLU
Staff Writer

“We're really just looking for anyone
who’s passionate about peace and justice,”
declared Kristin Danielson, who recruited
on Friday for the Lutheran Volunteer Corps
(LVC). This program was founded in 1979
by Luther Place Memorial Church in Wash-
ington, DC with the aim of promoting peace
with justice.

Their approach to this lofty goal is three-
fold. Direct service focuses on the immediate
relief of needs, from housing to education to
medical care. Community organizing con-
cocts rallies, fundraisers and other outreach
events which inspire social change. And pub-
lic policy rallies forces to push for reform in
governmental laws and policies.

They seek the realization of all these
goals through matching volunteers with one
year placements in social justice organiza-
tions. Selected by application, fresh vol-
unteers gather in August each year at a one

“We’re really just looking
for anyone who’s passionate
about peace and justice.”
-Kristin Danielson

week orientation held in Washington, DC.

After training, workers scatter to 16 cities
across the United States. Waiting in each city
is a support committee of citizens invested
in the success of LVC. They welcome each
team of four to seven volunteers into a pre-
furnished house located in a modest, racially
diverse neighborhood.

The living situation is designed to foster
sustainability of the environment through
green practices as well as the sustainability
of the self through healthy relationships.

While all household members have
unique job placements, they are invested in
the same core goals of peace and justice.
House names honor concepts such as simu-
nye, “we are one” in Zulu, as well as brave
figures like Sojourner Truth. The house is de-
signed as a center of revitalization and com-
munity. Though some tensions inevitably
arise, the experience is ultimately construc-

tive. As Danielson said, “Learning how to be
with people, how to be authentic, is an art.”

Besides holding weekly community
nights, houses also organize a monthly spiri-
tual night. This is intended to be a time for
stimulating discussion and growth, and each
house has freedom over the shape of this oc-
casion. Past events include the viewing and
discussion of the noble film “Chocolat” with
mandatory confection consumption.

Each year, members attend three regional
retreats in order to rest, reflect upon their ex-
periences and rejuvenate their spirits. Past
locations include Chesapeake Bay and the
hills of the Appalachians. Retreats involve a
review of the core principles of LVC as well
as training, often in the realm of “active, in-
tentional anti-racism work.”

Danielson stressed that social justice can-
not be realized without addressing ethnic is-
sues, and LVC equips its volunteers with the

tools to spot and resist racist tendencies in
themselves and others.

Danielson urges prospective volunteers
to explore, “What excites you.” Choices are
abundant. Clusters of offerings include edu-
cation, HIV/AIDS, environmental awareness,
food programs, health care, refugee services
and scores beyond. Each volunteer receives
a comprehensive list of all job descriptions,
organized by city.

Next come interviews for the top three
positions. LVC then matches each volunteer
with the most lucrative job offering, based
upon voiced preferences.

The program does require a one year com-
mitment, from August to August, and volun-
teers must be 21 or older at the beginning
of their year. The program is by no means a
dead end, for 30 percent of participants go on
to graduate school.

The directors insist that it can be an ex-

MARKETING PROJEGT

Discover where youll study abroad at usac.unredu

cellent opportunity to focus on an issue of in-
terest and even to sample a career field. They
point out the fact that benefits are plentiful,
as placements cover costs of housing, utili-
ties, food, travel, and transportation, as well
as medical insurance.

Two weeks of vacation are allowed, as
well as a monthly stipend of $100. Often,
positions require for Americorps Education
Awards of up to $4725. Generally, federally
guaranteed student loans may be deferred.

Applications are available on the LVC
website and are considered through a roll-
ing application process beginning January 15
and ending in June. LVC is careful not to dis-
criminate based upon gender, sexual orienta-
tion, race, disability, religion or major. While
LVC is affiliated with the Lutheran Church,
half of the volunteers hail from other faiths.
The vital credentials are simple: commitment
to LVC’s mission of peace and justice.

SAUCE

Oe
Hour abelian te tie lA por G
