THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gamecocks prove to
be too much for ’Cats

Tan QUA

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

A great game for
a great cause

JoHN MORGAN

Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team faltered
against another ranked opponent on Satur-
day, losing to the No. 51 University of South
Carolina 7-0 at the USC Indoor Field House.
The Wildcats were outmatched by the strong
South Carolina team, losing all three doubles
matches and all six singles matches.

Scott Myers ’09 and Calum Gee °12
played the closest doubles superset, finish-
ing with an 8-4 loss to Diego Cubas and Ivan
Machado at the No. | spot. Walker Lyons *11
and Brandon Byrd ’09 lost their No. 2 dou-
bles match 8-2. David Warren ’10 and Carter
Braxton ’11 lost their No. 3 doubles match
by the same 8-2 score.

The Wildcats fared no better in the singles
matches; all six singles spots lost in straight
sets. The highlight of the singles matches
was the debut of Tareq Alani ’10. He saw
the court for the first time this season at the
number six singles spot, but was unable to
capture a win, losing 6-2, 6-4.

The Wildcats have two games this upcom-
ing week. The ’Cats defeated Gardner-Webb
5-2 to end their four match losing streak on
Tuesday, Feb. 10.

“This was a must win for this team. Com-
ing off playing a string of very tough oppo-
nents, we need this for confidence,” Lyons
said, “We showed good heart and fought well
for the doubles point, which carried over into
singles where we were able to come through
with big wins to take the match.”

Davidson’s record now stands at 2-4 on
the season and hopes to build on the.confi-
dence taken from Tuesday’s win.

The team returns to the court Valentine’s
Day to take on USC Upstate at 10 a.m. at
home.

is ocen bey rx roel chores
aonedd zeae fe ba chon sma cawed

hi ee pains rm hia Wand cag

L perm inte ing Erdiewiaenk fic te bererred
ae bexL aves ie capi omcaedy
; So a 9c 9 pours aod oa seechy cand 3h. wae of

| he oe bean leg inte en Soo

| Anaioeee A Cannel Agpeiis deter, ba Fla
a. nilely maeced ko! locper haner borayoea Be
Sin is teamed & poke nd 3 mapas
Pps dh Wh Dan Jeane,
; be hen dedinned bi: ep panies hc peg peak
ee ee

| condectel abi

Fearon wie len. oe 2 See Coed

| anes te Dede Used aed neds A

| eperetr ofthe Lines CAA Hin ais exrvonen te:

E beamnal te hee beens Can, Deeedva Lente

| Coenen, iil te Thesibecn: Poeananity Player wal
F amewent quarwed 0 be Teun Maciag Deen

ICR As DOTS + HE
CITY ITA,

sicditos,

Exeter duos. Gyeilome
05 Delany Gevet Suite 28 fin the Henan Davedce Comes Rly Daido, NC 22286 + (ad BL » wormenciamnthretionoom

Staff Writer

Women’s basketball’s Saturday matchup
against Chattanooga presents major impli-
cations for the Cats’ SoCon dreams. It also
represents a good humanitarian effort, as the
’Cats host their annual Pink Zone fundraiser
for breast cancer.

With tip-off set for 2 p.m., the first 200
fans through the turnstiles will pick up a Da-
vidson sign scroll. The first 150 will snag a
fashionable pair of pink Crocs.

For the women’s basketball community,
this game takes a personal angle. Legendary
N.C. State coach Kay Yow passed away this
year from the disease. Bringing the connec-
tion even closer to home, Head Coach An-
nette Watts coached the Wolfpack as an as-
sistant under Yow.

The game itself should be thrilling, as
the ’Cats face Chattanooga’s league-leading
15-1 conference record. Currently riding
a 10-game winning: streak, the Mocs just
knocked off College of Charleston 72-61 at
home. Their sights are already set on March.

The ’Cats are hungry to avenge their close
76-69 loss at Chattanooga earlier this season.
If Davidson can return to its former shooting
glory, especially from three-point range, the
game will rest in the home team’s hands. An
energetic first half, quashing Chattanooga’s
quick offensive attack, is a must.

Ashley Lax ’11, Alex Thompson ’*10 and
Mercedes Robinson ’09 will need another
double-digit scoring outing against the Mocs.
Perhaps even more pressing, the bench play-
ers must extend the seven points they con-
tributed against Chattanooga the last time
around. With contro! of possession—snag-
ging rebounds and conquering the press—the
Wildcats will run their own game.

oon D “Sad Camps he gee dae
qresropescene cern ata ave diced
seed aaa he ler pared me gE:
wow sedatives wit darts eile
shove xf dee Sandy 2 wel pated 2 990 wee te

| bes Whdag cninc pepeete adaves ccd
aod pexacn tl Coie, sel decdopen wd eons tent
aol exacn, Sack slcceedy panes tebe al
dete ind Sodered courte Meet Cords and Vigna
ladéieas & rey go e 2 eR,
Sandy a keke 2 bea lardy onda es coameanay.
Seedy Doibor mive, wd hy abhie, ered lie
inte (eed terete Sah ed Vela ere ee
idee, Aede 2d tenes ua ered taay ean a 8
nme white brew Caveem ba eran
armen Wend laridwa wemndes, 84 BeTT

Pope ew Cadege Pooky waa Creeks, 48 gore tf
‘Wiles Mawes Laie OR ALS A ed 2 he
coudted wad Iwkal bebeticls cal bak io the

im des Combed Mere warrdion

ROAST OY
we CORTE WL TES

me |

11

WeEnpnespay, Fesruary 11, 2009

> “a

Elon, from page 12

the first half, one variable seemed nearly
impossible to control—Greensboro hit 62
percent from the floor, including five three-
pointers. After a frenetic run by the Spartans —
to end the half, Davidson walked into the
locker room down 17.

The fire, however, was not yet extin-
guished, especially on defense. The ’Cats
responded with a near shutdown strategy.
They limited Greensboro to 29 points, and
even more impressive, a 28 percent shooting
tally. If Davidson only matched this lights-
out intensity the first 20 or so minutes, it may
have been a different game.

On offense, meanwhile, the Wildcat lead-
ing scorers— Robinson and Lax—were held
to nine for 32 shooting. Help inside kept the
game within reach, as Mandy Halbersleben
°09 pulled down six rebounds and put up 10
points. Davidson even managed to score 17
points off offensive rebounds.

Despite her poor shooting, Robinson
managed to rack up her 14th double-double
this season, tying her career record. Her con-
sistent presence, along with the bundle of en-
ergy provided by the likes of Thompson and
Halbersleben, must drive the team through
its final five SoCon matchups.

With a respectable 8-7 record, the ’Cats
head into a tough home stretch against con-
ference leaders Chattanooga and Samford. ~
Both teams contributed to the six-game skid,
and Davidson will undoubtedly approach
these match-ups with a vengeance. If the
squad comes out fired up from the opening
whistle, it may prove its initial 7-0 run was
no fluke.

Women’s Basketball vs. UTC
Sat. @ 2:00, Belk Arena

in the midst of a three-game
homestand, Davidson hosts
SoCon-leading Chattanooga on
Saturday afternoon. The game
is part of the annual WBCA
Pink Zone event to raise aware-
ness for breast cancer. The Mocs
defeated the ‘Cats 76-69 in the
team’s first meeting on Jan. 17.

Outside the Den

No. 3 North Carolina at No. 4 Duke
Wed. @ 8:00, ESPN

North Carolina travels a short
distance down Tobacco Road to
Cameron Indoor Stadium to take
on Duke in arguably the nation’s

best college basketball rivalry.

The winner will take over sole

possession of first place in the

ACC as both teams enter the

game tied for first-place with
identical 7-2 conference records.

Invest in You 4
| Invest Now

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are
now being awarded to top applicants for a

new one-year Master's Program in Finance
beginning Fall 2009.

e Acquire the expertise you will need to
succeed in the market place of the future.

e Leverage a dedicated career specialist and
extensive alumni network in entering the
market.

¢ Build your leadership potential in the co-
curricular program and meet with
distinguished speakers.

For more informatiog, or to apply, visit
www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or
contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT Day SCHOOL
CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE

500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 9171] TEL: 909-607-3347

