THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Beethoven, Obama inspirational

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

Every so often, someone comes along who has the ability
to transcend generations. These people can be athletes,
scientists or authors. They have the ability to speak to an
audience broader than most. Frequently, people are inspired
not just by what they have accomplished, but the manner in
which they did so.

In today’s confusing and often frightening society, it
would behoove us to look at such past and present figures for
encouragement. They overcame insurmountable obstacles;
perhaps their life stories can be a catalyst for the rest of
ours.

During the early-nineteenth century, Ludwig van
Beethoven was making his living as an organist and composer.
His childhood was filled with tragedy; his mother died while
he was a teenager, and his father was negligent, abusive and an
alcoholic. As if adolescence wasn’t tough enough, Beethoven
had to fend for himself, as well as for his siblings.

In today’s confusing and often
frightening society, it would behoove
us to look at such past and present
figures for encouragement.

Before long, Beethoven started having trouble hearing.
He was (rightly) confused and frustrated; as a musician and
composer, why did God take away the one thing he needed
the most? He started using an ear-trumpet in order to hear
what others were saying. Towards the end of his life, his
hearing had turned so bad that the ear-trumpet wasn’t cutting
it anymore.

He turned to keeping conversation books; he would
literally have conversations through the written word. What
dedication and love for humanity and music! Beethoven,
for whom giving up would have been so easy, took painful
steps to keep communicating with his fellow man and writing
music.

He appeared reclusive, angry and perpetually aggravated
at everyone and everything around him. He was unable to
hear; yet he had the drive to create music. His music thrives

to this day. One can find works by Ludwig van Beethoven
in concert halls, film scores and commercials. His name is
everywhere, including a film starring a dog. People all over
the world were — and continue to be — inspired by Ludwig van
Beethoven’s story of conquering slim odds to achieve great
success in his field.

Leaders all over the world have a new-
found enthusiasm for their relationship
with the United States.

President Barack Obama is another such figure. One need
not look at politics to appreciate his life story. His father was
an immigrant from Kenya, and his mother was a white woman
from Kansas. Both of his parents died relatively early, so his
grandmother started taking care of him. He lived off of food
stamps for a part of his life.

Cut to several years later, and he is the junior Senator
from Illinois. Today, he is President of the United States. That
story itself is miraculous; the American dream truly is alive.
Obama’s presidency teaches us that if we work hard enough,
we can realistically achieve our dreams.

On top of that, consider the fact that he is African-
American. Although they have not been completely broken,
Obama’s victory in the 2008 presidential election showed that
racial barriers are quickly coming down. Obama’s message
of hope and change inspired millions.

People participated in the political process in
unprecedented numbers. Leaders all over the world have
a new-found enthusiasm for their relationship with the
United States. I am confident that for a long time, Obama’s
presidency will not only be remembered for the policies, but
the underlying story as well.

These two individuals deserve accolades for creating
something out of nothing. Even with odds stacked against
them, they found a way to succeed in such a way that people
will look to them for years to come. Eddie Vedder once said,
“Nothing is everything. And if nothing is everything, I’
have it all.”

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase,
Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Super Mario: artistic masterpiece?

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

Yes, this article is about video games. I thought I’d say
this straightaway, as there are undoubtedly people who are
going to look at (though probably not read) this article, shrug
their shoulders and laugh at the idea of a worthwhile editorial
about a childish, socially-undeveloped subculture concerned
only with mindless entertainment. Hopefully, these same
people will realize a few minutes from now that half their
family asked for a Wii this past holiday season, and that, at
this very moment, their grandmother is practicing yoga on a
hard, plastic board in front of her TV screen with a Wiimote
in hand. According to the market-research firm NPD Group,
video game revenues topped $22 billion in 2008. To show you
just how quickly the industry has expanded, last December
saw $5.3 billion dollars in sales. That’s $300 million more
than in 1997, calculated over the entire year. Clearly, video
games aren’t just for kids anymore.

As video games have become more complex, with better
graphics and revolutionary input devices, so have the ideas
behind them. Believe it or not, there are some games that
actually make interesting, thought provoking and even
academic statements. Last year, a game called “Bioshock”
was released by developer 2K Boston, formerly Irrational
Games.

This was a game developed with two clear goals. The
first was to create a fun, atmospheric and engaging escapist
experience. The second was to actively and violently confront
Ayn Rand’s well known and oft-discussed philosophy of
Objectivism. Without sounding too much like a character
from “The Big Bang Theory,” the game placed the player
in an isolated and forgotten city once guided, and ultimately
destroyed, by man’s ambition, with the appropriately named
Atlas as the player’s only companion.

Certainly, the game is extraordinarily well made and
is a raucous good time, but it has an undeniable argument,
one that is beautifully constructed, perfectly realized and
forcefully delivered. It begs and pleads to be engaged with,
from the detailed environments and character models, to
the eerily realistic physics and the haunting 1930s art deco
design style. It uses the vehicle of video games to deliver

ideas about philosophy, reason and human nature in a way
that no novel, painting or film could. Someone could write
a refutation of Objectivism and publish it in a humanities
related journal, but why do that when a video game could be
made into a work of pure fun with mass market appeal and
no compromise in quality or meaning? Why walk someone
through an argument, an idea, a train of thought, when that
person can walk through it themselves?

Clearly, video games aren't just for
kids anymore.

Unfortunately, I believe that very few people in academia
are willing to give video games any sort of credence as a
respectable form of expression, though it seems this is
changing. Dr. Lerner took a brave step in this direction
by offering Interactive Digital Narratives through CIS in
2006. Undoubtedly, there are other professors at Davidson
who have considered video games as a legitimate form of
intellectual discourse. These educators understand that video
games can carry the same meaning as a novel, a painting, a
song or a film, and that these interactive works of art can be
equally significant. That is not to say that all video games are
academically relevant; the industry certainly has its share of
mindless entertainment, but so does every other avenue of
expression. For every John Milton there are a hundred Dan
Browns.

It would be foolish to toss the baby out with the bath
water, though I’m afraid that’s what has transpired over the
past few years. Take, for instance, ITS’s artificial cap on
internet connectivity for video game consoles. With video
games becoming higher-brow and more intellectually aware,
andthe expanding role of the internet in video games, this
will have to be addressed. Until then, keep playing and
engaging with your video games. The next time you play Age
of Empires, consider what it has to say about colonization
and expansion; ponder what arguments Grand Theft Auto 4
makes about crime, punishment, morality and the American
Dream in a post-9/11 world. I think you'll be surprised.

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from
Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

Consulate in Che:

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009 9

emolished as the houses they were forced to flees We hea
of 300,000 people ees into the, forests : of Sri. Lanka

These choppy" “economic: waters. 1 ‘make: At ae the’ more.
important to go out into the world and let it, i in turn, reach;

*he “question the en 3 becomess
there’s no level to bere reached;

world is infinitely’ distant..No one kis the exact number:
of steps between “awareness” and “knowledges” but it is:

_ Clear that just being aware of the world —that it roils. and
_ churns beyond us—is no place to stop and castia sidelong
: glance. me Ly . 7 7 “

ee: f a é re ae

Matt Petit’708 isa 1 Foreign Service Officer at t the US.
i"India Contact him at thnpettit@

gmail.com:

