PERS

Sr. ~

Respecting Perspectives

STAFF EDITORIAL

‘This week; The Davidsonian is running a pair of articles
homosexuality, Christianity, and. what: it means. for the
Davidson. community to support events like the National
Coming ,Qut Day panel, held on October: i Obviously,
both, sexual orientation and religion are deeply ‘personal
parts of the human experience, and all of us, as students, are
fortunate to attend a school where these elements of our lives
are respected by both the administration and by many of our
peers. That said, the Davidson population is spiritually and
culturally diverse, and with this diversity comes a wealth of
oceasionally conflicting viewpoints and opinions. These two
articles on homosexuality are evidence of those differences.
Part of respecting these various viewpoints is listening
to. those who may see the. world differently; despite. how
difficult it may be for some. Similarly, healthy and. persuasive
discourse relies on this same principle, as it is impossible to,
carry on a useful discussion without viewing both arguments
on an equal and Jevel playing field. We hope that our readers
will give both Perspectives the proper. oa of deference.
that each deserves... 5 a!ed exe
Every week, this paper strives to cover topics that affect.
campus and its student body. This relationship between
the community and the Davidsonian works both ways; as
a student-run organization, our articles are’ necessarily
informed by the thoughts and interests of Davidson students,
While. this ‘is: certainly true. of the entire publication, the
Perspectives: ‘section serves as. a much, more open forum:
where members of the Davidson family. can bring to light
issues that. they feel have not been addressed adequately, be it
in the paper or on the campus at large. Because Perspectives
exists explicitly to serve this purposeythe section’s editor's
primary duty is to respect the messages and Philosophi of
those whose work:is printed every week,
Atthe same time, our editors must respect ‘the thoughts and
beliefs of our readers, as this toois necessary for a successful
debate. We have worked hard with both writers throughout
our editing process to make sure that the arguments are
considerate of differing opinions. while maintaining. the,
original meaning of the articles. The writers and editors hope
that this effort will worktowards a more eloquent and civil
conversation. As a reader, we trust that you will work with
towards this goal.

Tye Davivsonian

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis
Managing Editor
# Natasha Rivera
News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor
Jennifer Gambrell
Yow!l Editor
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright ~
Online Editor
eee’ Greg Newman
Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman & Ryan Price”
Photography Staff
Bill Giduz & Tripp Bartholomew

4%
/ f

#

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College.

Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or
$30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall @davidson.edu for
advertising inquiries.

2a ’

TIVES

THE DaAVvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2009

Homosexuality against Christian tradition

MICHAEL SPANGLER
Guest Columnist

Nearly a month has passed since the October 7 celebration
of National Coming Out Day, but I am still left with serious
concerns about it. For those who did not hear about it, the
event was a discussion with a panel of gay and lesbian faculty
and staff intended to support and celebrate students coming
out publicly about their homosexuality. Davidson should be
a place where the truth is honored and students are cared for,
and I think the event showed a major failure in both areas.
I hope that the readers of the Davidsonian will hear these
concerns with an open heart.

I know that Davidson desires to protect its students from
harassment. I happily support this worthy goal. However, it
is a grave injustice when this ideal is twisted to obscure the
truth and to lead students to openly rebel against the God
who made them. I affirm, along with the Christian tradition
with which our Statement of Purpose allies itself, that “God
is the source of all truth.” The scriptures of the Old and New
Testaments, which are his Word, are thus trustworthy in all
their parts, since they are inspired by the God from whom all
truth comes. These scriptures plainly attest that homosexuality
is rebellion against our perfect Creator. The crowning glory
of his very good creation was mankind, made male and
female in God’s own image, united as one flesh in marriage,
and commanded, “be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth
and subdue it...” (Genesis 1:26-28, 2:23-25 ESV). This first
marriage and every subsequent human marriage point to the
great marriage of Jesus Christ and his church at the end of the
world, which is the joyful destiny of all those who love the
Lord (Revelation 21, Ephesians 5:31-32). Along with other
sexual sins such as adultery and fornication, homosexuality
overtums the Creator’s beautiful design for marriage. It
also mocks his wise design for the human body and sexual
intercourse. Furthermore, homosexuality makes it impossible
to obey the command, “be fruitful and multiply” and leads to
the extinction of generations yet unborn. God justly condemns
it in his own voice as an abomination (Leviticus 18:22), and
shows his hatred of it by destroying Sodom and Gomorrah as
an example (Jude 1:7). Furthermore, the apostle Paul teaches
that being given over to homosexuality is a punishment on
those who worship idols (Romans 1!:18-32). Therefore, when
Davidson officially encourages homosexuality by supporting
events such as the National Coming Out Day celebration, it is
unwittingly encouraging its students to turn against the God
who made them, his very good creation, and his perfect moral
law, and to live and die under his wrath and curse.

To honor the truth and to care for our students, we should

direct them toward the path of life: repentance and faith in
the Lord Jesus Christ. Homosexuality is not the only sin:
we all sin and and need a Savior. What depth of mercy that
God provided his only begotten Son to be this Savior! This
is the good news: for all those who trust in him, no matter
the depth of their wickedness, Christ bore the full wrath of
God against their sin on the cross. By faith, believers receive
his perfect righteousness and can stand before God now and
for eternity, as if they had never sinned. “For God so loved
the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes
in him should not perish but have eternal life” (John 3:16).
On the third day after being crucified, Christ rose from the
dead. In the same way, those who were once dead in their
sins are made alive through him (Ephesians 2:4-5). With this
new life comes freedom and power to fight remaining sin,
including homosexuality, with a complete victory promised
in the final resurrection at the end of time. This new life is
an abundant life John 10:10): the Christian has joy amid
trials and persecutions, a cleansed conscience, assurance of
salvation, freedom from worry and need, a fervent love for
God, and a grateful desire to keep his law.

That Davidson directs its homosexual students away from
such abundant life is especially shameful considering its
history. Davidson was founded by Presbyterians who loved
God’s Word and who loved Jesus Christ. A vestige of their
solid Reformed theology exists in our current Statement of
Purpose. As I understand the official sources of the Chaplain’s
Office and the Board of Trustees, Davidson believes that its
approval of diversity in matters of sexual orientation honors
God. The truth is quite the opposite. I believe that God hates
the sin of homosexuality and he graciously offers his only
Son to rescue people from it. A god that loves homosexuality
and approves of those who encourage it is not the God of the
Bible, and thus not the true and living God. Such a god is an
idol of our own making. In worshipping it we break the first
commandment, “you shall have no other gods before me”
and the second, “you shall not make for yourself a carved
image.” In continuing to use God’s name in our official
documents and speeches we break the third: “you shall not
take the name of the Lorp your God in vain.” We must repent
as individuals and as an institution, for “the Lorp will not
hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain” (Exodus 20:3-
7). My dear friends, professors, administrators, alumni, and
trustees, let us humble ourselves before the Lord before it is
too late, for “it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the
living God” (Hebrews 10:31).

Michael Spangler ’10 is a Music major from Winston
Salem, NC. Contact him at mispangler @davidson.edu.

Accepting GLBTQ’s affirms Davidson’s ideals

JAMIE HOFMEISTER
Guest Columnist

I am a Christian, a Presbyterian, who loves God and
struggles to understand who God is and who we are in relation
to God amid a cacophony of voices and interpretations in
the Church and in the world. One of the things I appreciate
about being in the Presbyterian Church (USA) is the ability to
question, to search and discover and study, and to disagree in
order to respond to these huge questions. Presbyterians do this
in such a way that values the Bible as an authoritative source
while calling us to interpret it carefully and thoughtfully
using the best historical, linguistic, and literary scholarship.
It is from this perspective that I want to call attention to and
celebrate Davidson’s support of National Coming Out Day,
through banner signings and a panel discussion with openly
gay faculty and staff.

My tradition affirms that God created everything and
declared it good. Humans are created in the image of God
for a purpose, and God loves each and every person. God
is more magnificent and powerful than I can ever imagine,
and is beyond our realm of understanding. We are called to
seek justice, cherish kindness, and walk humbly with God,
knowing we are not alone.

The openness of the school and its support for the
GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bi, Transgendered, Questioning)
community speaks volumes to the heritage of Davidson in
the Presbyterian tradition. Despite individual differences
of opinion on homosexuality, we can stand together and
affirm homosexuals. I think one of the best things about
Davidson’s foundations is the opportunity it provides for
critical thinking, for open dialogue and for faithful response
to the current context due to the Confessional tradition of
the Presbyterian Church. I find the openness of Davidson
to students of all sexualities to be a wonderful sign of God
bringing reconciliation and love into the world.

The openness of the school, and
support for the GLBTQ (Gay, Lesbian,
Bi, Transgendered, Questioning)
community, speaks volumes to
the heritage of Davidson in the
Prespyterian Tradition, in which,
despite individual differences of
opinion on homosexuality, we
can stand together and affirm
homosexuals.

We are challenged to be signs of these gifts, to break
down boundaries around us, to welcome the outcast, the
oppressed, the stranger, the hurt, the weak, and show love
and compassion, following the example set forth by the law,
the prophets of the Hebrew Bible and Jesus’ ministry. As I
walk into the Union each day and see the banner hanging
with signatures of students, faculty and staff showing their
support for the GLBTQ community, I am reminded of what
wonderful steps we as a community are taking to answer
these challenges.

This gives me great hope about what we, a community
of religious and non-religious individuals, Christians, and
people of various faiths, can do together to stand up against
oppression and injustice of all sorts.

Jamie Hofmeister ’1] is a religion major from Paris, KY.
Contact her at jahofmeister @davidson.edu.
