2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

mF

CAROLINE WooD

i= ~iiees<-

News

a game and cookie

=

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

Students enjoy friendships with local senior citizens

News Editor

Of the many comforts of home that col-
lege students often miss, one can be the re-
laxation and peace of spending time with
family. But participants in the Davidson
Adopt-a-Grandparent program have found
a refreshing way of dealing with this chal-
lenge: meeting and enjoying the company of
a local senior citizen who is happy to be their
“grandfriend.”

The program, which has been active for
over 30 years, works in conjunction with
the Town of Davidson Department of Parks
and Recreation. The Department helps Lind-
say Howard ’10 and Liz Rollins °10, the
President and Vice President of the program,
identify senior citizens who have shown in-
teresting in being friends with a college stu-
dent. They then review student interest and
attempt to find the best personal match for
every student.

“We work hard to pair grandfriends and
students that have similar hobbies and inter-
ests,” Howard said. She explained that the
Parks and Recreation Department is par-
ticularly helpful in matching students and
grandfriends, since many of the senior citi-
zens have been participating in the program
for numerous years, and the department staff
knows them well.

The Parks and Recreation Department
also helps the Davidson student coordinators
plan campus programs and often provides
food and refreshments for participants.

About 50 Davidson students and local se-
nior citizens are currently involved with the
Adopt-a-Grandparent program. Howard re-
ports that more students express interest each
week as the program continues to grow.

Howard explained that the program hours
are flexible, but students are expected to stay
in touch with their grandfriend throughout the
year and to attend a small number of group
social events that the program coordinators
plan and host. Beyond that, students and their
grandfriends can pursue their friendship in
any way they want, planning their own ac-
tivities and meeting times.

Group events, which are held on campus,
usually focus on sharing a meal and good

night, to which seniors
and students brought
their favorite board
games and treats for
an evening of light-
hearted fun.

Adopt-a-Grand-
parent also hosts a
number of annual
events, including their
Thanksgiving _—_ Pot-
luck, which will take
place this Thursday,
and a catered fare-
well dinner at the end
of the year. Program
participants also at-
tend formally orga-
nized activities, like
sporting events and
choir performances,
together.

The Adopt-a-
Grandparent program
started in the 1970s,
when Davidson Se-
nior Services, a public
program disbanded in
2004, founded it as
an avenue to encourage students to assist the
elderly. The program, which was originally
entitled the Student Senior Friendship Pro-
gram, soon switched focus from the assis-
tance students could provide with daily tasks
and chores to the meaningful relationships
that were developing between students and
grandfriends.

The program coordinators emphasize the
fun and relaxing nature of the program, which
many students find a pleasant alternative to
the stress and pressure that they often experi-
ence on campus. Howard also focused on the
enrichment that can arise from a friendship
with an individual of another generation,
who has life experiences and insights that are
encouraging and inspiring for students.

“This program works to break the inter-
generational divide, and connect Davidson
College more with the Davidson Commu-
nity,” Howard said. “It is really a great way
to meet people from the Davidson area and
foster meaningful connections with them.

company. Recently, the program organized i i i ”

SigEp hosts

KELsey LILLEY
News Editor

This Saturday morning at 9:00 amidst
Brueggers Bagels and hot chocolate, David-
son students, faculty and community mem-
bers will gather on the Town Green for the
Sth annual Sigma Phi Epsilon Turkey Trot.

The Turkey Trot will be a 5K race to
benefit the Free Clinic of Our Towns at Ada
Jenkins, a non-profit volunteer organization
that seeks to bring healthcare to those in the
communituy who can’t afford it.

“The Free Clinic’s services are in more
demand than ever with the state of the econ-
omy,” SigEp Vice President of Programming
Bryce Jones ’11 said. “Unfortunately, much
of the charitable donations that keep the
Clinic running have fallen off just when our
community needs the Clinic the most.”

Jones said that because many of the
brothers of SigEp volunteer for the Clinic
itself or Ada Jenkins, Service Chair Scott
Connors ’11 revived the Turkey Trot after “a
three year hiatus.”

“The race course will take the runners/
joggers/walkers through the beautiful fall
streets of Davidson,” Jones said. “There
will be fabulous prizes for the top men and
women running and walking finishers. Prizes

‘Turkey Trot’ |

include Fox and Hound gift cards, Fox and
Hound party starter gift pack...Brixx gift cer-
tificates and Fox and Hound appetizers.”

To sign up, students, faculty and staff can
register at the bottom floor of the Union from
11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m., as well as from 3:30
to 5:00 p.m. Registration is $10 in advance,
or $12 Saturday morning beginning at 8:30,
and comes with a t-shirt.

So far, SigEp has raised around $2,500
for the Free Clinic, and hopes to total $3,500
after the race. In addition, all proceeds from
registrations will go directly to the Free Clin-
ic, as SigEp has donated $1,500 to cover the
race costs.

“The response from SigEp alumni, many
of whom remember the Turkey Trot from
their time here, has been outstanding,” Jones
said. “We certainly hope that our event can
raise awareness about the Free Clinic and its
mission. Davidson students are already very
involved in this cause, and we would like to
let the whole campus know.”

Besides raising money for charity, eating
bagels and getting some exercise, Jones cited
one last reason to be excited for Saturday’s
Turkey Trot.

“Chris Ryan, SigEp’s President, has been
training for two weeks for this race,” Jones
joked. “He will also be wearing all Under
Armour.”

Howard went on to explain that when
she first joined the program, her relationship
with her grandfriend helped ease the transi-
tion into college life.

“My freshman year, while adjusting to
Davidson’s academic and social atmosphere,
it was comforting to have someone close by
care for me,” she said. “My grandfriend took
me out to lunch and invited me over to her
house anytime.” Howard even went on a trip
to Winston-Salem with her grandfriend and
her daughter during her freshman year.

1g: the
“oward fine, like the students ‘who.

#
@

_ prefer their heated rooms, the citizens of a“
nation may not be able to conceptualize the ” # panel installation ) and sticks (carbon taxes.

ofc costs not indicated in a good or service)

_costs to
_ greenhouse’ “gases, and: 0 on ‘and so. forth.
_ The to-date. - inability of ae pric

“environmentally-friendly 1 manner. Because ceeds a cap)

athe cost of pollution from coal burned, the ©
to offset the effects of emissions of

Liz Rollins ’10, Vice President of Davidson’s Adopt-a-Grandparent program, enjoys a meal with her ad-
opted grandparents at a campus community event for all participants.

The program is also a good way to meet
other Davidson students, since many of the
grandfriends have relationships with a num-
ber of students. Howard explains that she of-
ten goes over to her grandfriend’s house with
the other two Davidson students she has been
paired with so that the group can enjoy some
“family time” together.

Students who are interested in participat-
ing in the Davidson Adopt-a-Grandparent
program should contact Howard or Rollins.

caved the most eneray drives competition
between dorms, and has in the Past resulted

The Dark competition are of any: relevance:

ws ees

OU leave! ;

own before-you go to bed! ©

a you really need 1 your ‘overhead light and your desk lamp on onat at the same time? LIry | :

Joes your - XBox need to be plugg ged i in n 24-7? Gaming systems, TVs and DVD D play.
s-all draw electricity even when they’ re TURNED OFF! Plug them into a powe
trip and flip the switch off when you re not using them; power strips ea the al
trical current entirely when i in the off position. . “4
Do you really need to be logged into Facebook. while you sleep? Computers also
draw copious amounts: of electricity: w when plugsed in, even in sleep mode. Power

Even though heating is from natural gas and not t electricity and therefore doesn’ t
in the calculation of Do. Te In The Dark srancings, itis. always br better to use
_layers 1 stead of cranking up your thermostat. :

Ce

