10. THE DavIpDsOoNIAN

CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

Who will be this year’s Davidson? It’s
a question we’ve heard all season, with an-
swers ranging from Davidson to St. Mary’s
to Butler to W. Kentucky. Every commenta-
tor had a long list of potential Davidson’s.

While it may be a long time before anoth-
er team even similar to Davidson’s 2008 ver-
sion comes along, a strong mid-major tends
to make a long run in the NCAA Tournament
fairly frequently. Teams like 2006’s George
Mason Patriots have made runs to the Final
Four. Even smaller programs like Hampton
in 2001 have shocked the world with an up-
set over a top ten team.

Why do we watch? Many of us watch to
see which mid-major will emerge as the next
Cinderella story. All things being equal, we
would rather see David try to take down Go-
liath with one-tenth the budget and nowhere
near the clout. The NCAA Tournament draws
strong ratings every year because people fill
out brackets trying to predict upsets. The
drama is unmatched.

All of which brings us to this year’s se-
lection committee and first round. The com-
mittee handed out at-large tournament bids
to four (yes, four) teams that do not hail from
BCS leagues. That number pales in compar-
ison to past figures but actually fits in line
with declining love for the smaller programs.
Many analysts predicted George Mason’s run
and the success of other at-large mid-majors
in 2006 would help the little guy in the fu-
ture. The effect has been the opposite.

Large schools in the BCS conferences
have no desire to see their territory taken over
by the little guys. Perennial bubble schools
like Florida State or Mississippi State cannot
stand seeing their bids taken by schools that
routinely do more with less. .

So, the selection committee reacted as the
major schools wanted. No longer, they said,
will we give the mid-majors a fair shot at
bids. They decided to completely forget that
major conference teams play very few road
games. Analysts like Jay Bilas, who supports
the current system, say that the process is not
meant to be fair. Why shouldn’t it be?

I have previously ranted in this column
about the lack of true road games played by
power schools. While Florida St. gets eight
chances against ACC competition on its home
floor each season, Davidson gets zero. Neu-
tral games, which happen infrequently, are
simply not the same. If Bilas disagrees, let’s
have Duke play UNC in Raleigh’s Reynolds
Coliseum instead of Cameron Indoor. What
would they say then?

By excluding the mid-majors and fur-
ther tilting the system in favor of the power
conferences, the NCAA is killing its golden
goose. Last year’s final between top seeds
Kansas and Memphis rated horribly. By con-
trast, Davidson’s matchup against Kansas in
the regional final was a home run.

This season, there were several mid-ma-

SPORTS
Selection committee killing the Golden Goose

B courtesy of Sports in Gores

Max Paulhus Gosselin 09 and Boris Meno ’08 celebrate. Davidson’ s win over
Georgetown in the second round of the 2008 NCAA tournament. No Mid-Major Cin-
dereila stories emerged from this year’s field as 14 of the top 16 teams advanced.

jors with compelling resumes. Chief among
them was Davidson’s NIT foe St. Mary’s
(CA), which went 20-2 and was in line for a
single-digit seed with star Patty Mills in the
lineup. When Mills got hurt, they stumbled
to a 6-3 record. That, however, should not
have mattered. Mills was back and ready by
tournament time, evidenced by his 27 point
explosion in the first round of the NIT.

The 2009 NCAA Tournament has seen
very few upsets. Cinderella was left waiting
at the ball, and no small schools have ad-
vanced. The tournament committee is point-
ing to a seeding job well done.

But why was this tournament different?
Every previous tournament has had upsets.
Was it because the better seeds showed up
and played better? Possibly, but I doubt it.
By handing all of the at-large bids to power-
conference teams with mediocre records, the

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 25, 2009

Baseball vs. Appalachian State
Fri. at 7 p.m., Sat. 2 p.m., Sun at 1 p.m.
Wilson Field

After playing six of their last
seven games on the road,
the Wildcats return home to
Wilson Field to take on rival
Appalachian State in a Southern
Conference weekend series. The
Mountaineers are coached by

capable of pulling upsets. Nowhere to be former Wildcat pitcher Chris

seen were St. Mary’s, Creighton, Davidson, Pollard ‘96.
Niagara, or San Diego State. All of which
would have been nightmare matchups. Outside the Den

One of Davidson’s chief flaws was an
18-point loss to Purdue. Ohio State, in the
tourney as a No. 8 seed, lost to Purdue by 25.
The ’Cats’ neutral-court win over West Vir-
ginia? Compare it to Ohio State’s 28-point
home loss to the same squad.

Davidson’s loss was crippling. Its win
was discounted. Ohio State was not treated
similarly. They got more chances. Fortunate-
ly, the Buckeyes responded with a first round
loss to mid-major Siena, anyway.

CBS does not have a six billion dollar-
NCAA contract to watch mediocre big teams
duke it out. The people want upsets and want
to see David v. Goliath. If the trend of dis-
counting small schools continues, the ratings

San Antonio at New Orleans
Sun. @ 8:00 p.m., ESPN

The slumping Spurs travel to
New Orleans to take on Chris
Paul and the Hornets as both
teams continue to jockey for
playoff position in the Western
Conference.

committee set itself up with very few teams

Baseball, from page 1

Davidson’s first game of the series was
different. The Wildcats gave up six runs over
the first two innings and struggled to make
this gap up the entire game, losing 7-5 in the
end. Pat Brady ’09 was one of the few bright
spots in the lineup. Brady went two for three
with two mns and one run batted in includ-
ing an RBI double to deep left center. On the
mound, Thomas Middour ’10 struggled in
Friday’s game. He gave up five runs (three
earned) on seven hits in five innings.

The bullpen was another bright spot for
the wildcats. The Wildcat trio of Matt Sli-
wiak 711, Mac Hunter ‘11, and Matt Webb
opened the door for a Davidson comeback by

‘each pitching one inning of scoreless relief

over the final three frames, but the Davidson
lineup was unable to manufacture the neces-
sary two runs to tie the game and dropped the
first game of the weekend series.

The Wildcats also lost the second game
of their series on Saturday, 4-2. A fifth inning
grand slam by Wofford produced all the runs
they would need to take the game and the
weekend series. Cather Seth Freeman pro-

Baseball Men’s Basketball Men’s Tennis
(9-10, 4-3) (27-7, 18-2) (5-9, 1-2)
Results: Results: Results:

3/20 @ Wofford L 5-7

323 @ St. Mary’s L 68-80

3/21 @ Furman L.0-7

and money will speak for themselves.

1 fei a i ay j
ach posted unassisted goals, :

%

vided all of the Wildcats offense on Saturday,
driving in the lone two runs with a solo shot
in the top of the Sth and an RBI groundout
in the 6th inning. Freeman finished two for
four with 1 run and two runs batted in on the
day. His individual effort was not enough to
overcome Wofford’s grand slam and avoid
the series loss. Chris Lamb ’12 took the loss
for the Wildcats after allowing three runs on
four hits in four and one-third innings.

Davidson returned home following their
series with Wofford and lost a heartbreak-
ing 11 inning duel with Wake Forest 13-11
on Tuesday. Davidson staged a late rally but
Wake’s Weldon Woodall put the game away
with a two run home run in the top of the
1ith. Danny Weiss and Pat Brady continued
to hit the ball well against Wake Forest. Weiss
went three for six with one run and three runs
batted in while Brady finished three for four
with two runs and four runs batted in.

The Wildcats dropped below .500 again
in the loss to Wake Forest on Tuesday and
now stand at an overall record of (9-10). The
team will look to make it back to this .500
mark on Wednesday in another non-confer-
ence game against Gardner Webb.

nfortunatly.’ as ‘Longwood ‘dropped in

five straight in the last 13 minutes of: of they

[A

ontrol ot ground balls, owning gh to D:
jidson's 18. BG? y

e off a four game winning streak
ok will undoubtedly be a challenging
and d competitive match for the “Cats who’,

Ww ’

are ‘seeking some experience in lacross

Lacrosse Track an Field Women’s Tennis
(5-5) (4-7, 0-2)
, Results
Results: 3/20-3/21 Charlotte 49er Classic Results

3/18 vs. Marist L 9-11 3/21 @ Western Carolina W 7-0

321 @ Wofford L 2-4 3/23 vs. UIC L 3-4 3/21 @ Longwood L 5-10 Next Up: 3/23 vs. Brown L 1-6
3/22 @ Wofford W. 16-8 Next Up: 3/28 Weems Baskin Relays
3/24 vs. Wake Forest L 11-13 End of Season Next Up: Next Up: @ University of South Carolina Next Up:
3/28 vs. UNCG 3/28 @ Lehigh 3/27 vs. Cal State
Next Up: Notes: 3/28 @ Chattanooga
3/25 @ Gardner-Webb The sixth-seeded Wildcats Notes: Notes: Notes: 3/29 @ Samford
3/27-3/29 vs. App. State concluded their season with an After a pair of losses last week, The Wildcats have dropped Kennesia Martin ’09 broke her
80-68 loss at St. Mary’s College _ the ’Cats look to get back on _ three in a row since losing mid- own school record in the triple Notes:

Notes: in the second round of the NIT. _ track as they return to Southern
Danny Weiss ’11 went 4-5 with 5 Seniors Andrew Lovedale 09, Conference play when they
tbi’s in Sunday’s 16-8 Southern Can Civi ’09, and Max Paulhus face UNCG on Friday.
Conference victory over Wofford. Gosselin ’09 played their final
games for Davidson.

Alison Ruah ’11 record the
‘Cats’ only point with a victory
in #3 singles in Monday’s loss to
Brown. Ruah has now won her
last three singles matches.

fielder Becky Horton ’09 for jump at the Charlotte 49er Classic
the season to a knee injury over the weekend. Her jump of
11.70 meters earned runner-up
honors in the event.
