4 Tre Davipsonian

News

WEDNESDAY, OCOTBER 28, 2009

Sisters present upcoming novels at Reynolds Lecture

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

This year’s Reynolds Lecture welcomed
two nationally beloved authors, who happen
to be among each other’s biggest fans. Sis-
ters Elizabeth Gilbert and Catherine Gilbert
Murdock together led an evening of witty
banter, reading and discussion. To the de-
light of the audience, they each previewed
soon-to-be-published books.

Dr. Suzanne Churchill of the English
department introduced them as two of her
childhood friends. When the sisters lived on
a farm, she would visit them for play dates,
and they would often include her in their
imaginative performances.

To the surprise of the Gilbert sisters and
the audience, she played a sample of a hilari-
ous tape recordings of one of their plays in
which she was a celebrity visiting their “re-
sort.” Their imitation voices and shrieks of
excitement got the whole audience laughing
as they entered the stage.

Catherine Gilbert Murdock, wearing
“rock star boots,” spoke first, introducing
her sister, Liz, as a unique scholarly writer
who takes what she has and is learning from
a motley array of education and experiences.
She embraces these traits in her writing.

Her concept of marriage in her new book,
Committed: A Skeptic Makes Peace with
Marriage, might-be completely at odds with
traditional academics, but she personalizes it
and gives it new and beautiful insights.

Elizabeth Gilbert came to the stage sport-
ing blonde pigtails and a big smile, quickly
ingratiating the audience with stories and
witticisms before indulging everyone with a
sample of her new memoir on marriage.

Following her #1 New York
Times Bestseller Eat, Pray, Love,
Gilbert’s upcoming memoir re-
counts the story of her marriage
to a Brazilian named Felipe , who
otherwise would be deported by
Homeland Security. She details
their year of traveling in exile
and takes a scholarly inquiry into
aversions to marriage, especially
wedding vows. As Gilbert said,
“One’s credibility does begin to
tarnish after many times of this
sort of thing!”

Gilbert read a passage about
Gilbert-Murdock’s daughter,
Mimi, and her aversion to their
unconventional —_flower-girl-less
marriage, forcing another non-
legally binding “ceremony” in
the Murdock kitchen where Mimi
would be “the person” witnessing
the marriage. In front of Mimi,
Liz and Felipe committed to love
each other “through sick and not
sick, mad and not mad, rich and
not so rich.”

After the reading, Gilbert
introduced Gilbert-Murdock as
her personal stand-in for Shaharazad, who
broadened Liz’s own imaginat horizons with
10,000 stories in their childhood. Cath-
erine’s love for imaginative stories never left
her even as she grew into an adult reader.
Her stories keep coming, she says, mostly
through “epic, technicolor dreams.”

Her career writing novels began with a
trilogy featuring the fifteen year old girl ath-
lete from Wisconsin, DJ Schwenk, whose
character has inspired a number of young

Authors and sisters Elizabeth Gilbert (left) and
sights on their books and lives Monday night in Duke Family Performance Hall.

readers. Catherine read from her latest book
in the series, Front and Center, about DJ’s
journey through college basketball recruit-
ment process.

After the readings, Gilbert and Gilbert-
Murdock sat down on stage and asked each
other questions. They discussed the concept
of having fans and the self-competition cul-
ture that authors enter into with their writ-
ing.
They described what they thought of as

Catherine Murdock Gilbert (right) share in-

Oe:

the most satisfying parts of the writing ex-
perience. ““When I become so entrenched in
what I’m doing that time stops,” Gilbert said;
Gilbert-Murdock described the moment of
bliss when crafting a good sentence.

The dynamic of both sisters on stage
made the evening exponentially more enjoy-
able, and in the end we in the audience felt
that we knew them even beyond the sense of
intimacy and trust that readers have come to
love in their books.

