THE DAVIDSONIAN

I’m taking a break from my
weekly political rant to shift to
a more local topic, a very local
topic. Pm new here. I have lived in
Davidson for a mere twelve weeks,
and I’m still learning about my
surroundings, the traditions of the
Town of Davidson, and the qualities
that make it a desirable place to live.
My naiveté, however, allows me to
have an objective opinion for at least
a little while longer.

Davidson is a desirable place
to live. It is a combination of city-
suburb and college town. However, as far as cultural and
commercial centers go, there is improvement to be done.
No doubt about it, the town is lacking an immediate off
campus retreat for its 2,000 student residents and compelling
commercial facilities for its full time residents. I think that the
town of Davidson is missing a huge opportunity to become
a substantially higher quality place to live by ignoring
necessary infrastructure updates and the commercial needs
of both part and full time citizens.

What I question most is why Davidson has been unable
to transform North Main St. into a more vibrant small college
town, similar to other schools across the country. Some
particularly successful models can be found in Lewisburg,
PA and Bucknell; Hamilton, NY and Colgate; and Lexington,
VA and Washington & Lee. All are examples of small,
well developed college town communities with thriving
commercial centers with similar demographics to Davidson.

In my opinion, Davidson needs to move itself into the
future by transforming its commercial center to offer a more
diverse array of local and national businesses that serve both
its part and full time residents. I think that there is no need for

PERSPECTIVES
Rethinking ng Davidson’s Main Street |

On Politics

an entire block of store windows filled with gnomes. There
may be a need for the numerous medical and counseling
offices on currently on Main St (if there weren’t they would
be out of business) but I don’t see the sense of having them
taking up valuable commercial real estate.

Main St. should become a more commercial town-center
stemming from its central location next to the College, the
town green, town hall, and the public library. All it needs
to be complete are entrepreneurs willing to take a risk.
Transforming the storefronts of Main St. to more suitable
and necessary enterprises would to best serve the college and
residential communities. A thriving Main St. would not just
enhance the town but also increase its tax base substantially,
allowing for more badly needed projects like a new firehouse
and train stop.

A town-wide effort to reinvigorate commerce on Main St.
could provide the town with the opportunity to springboard
itself to the forefront of the green movement, install bike-
lanes, greenways, the works. Furthermore, making the two
or so blocks between Depot St. and the fork in Main St. a
pedestrian-only zone, could be a possibility. The reduction in
vehicular traffic would encourage walking, new storefronts,
outdoor cafés, etc. When Town Planner Lauren Blackburn
came to Davidson to speak to a public policy class, she
discussed a new “make sense” model of town planning with
a dense residential population close to a vibrant commercial
center to promote walking and bicycling over driving short
distances.

Ultimately, the town needs to look at itself from the outside
view and realize that it is squandering a huge opportunity to
re-invent its culture through a true commercial transformation
in the town center.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich,
CT. Contact him at samatthews @davidson.edu.

Reason necessary for strong faith

Davip MITCHELL
Guest Columnist

The question in our current debate on homosexuality is
purely one of which premises you choose to accept. Once
your premises are chosen, your opinions flow from them.
Mr. Spangler chooses to accept the premise that the Christian
Bible is the infallible word of God. It is precisely this premise
that I wish to investigate. My goal is in not to argue whether
his premise is correct or incorrect, but merely to highlight
the ultimate uncertainty in this determination, and this
uncertainty’s implications for morality claims.

Mr. Spangler makes a wide range of claims based on his
premise that the Bible is the infallible Word of God. What
he fails to establish is why this premise is true. There have
been many attempts to rationally establish the validity of
the Bible with proof. Books I have read include “The Case
for Christ” and “More Than A Carpenter.” Both of these
pieces present coherent, logic-based arguments for belief in
the Bible. However, there are also very robust arguments to
counter these. In my experience with Christians, emphasis is
ultimately put on faith. It is difficult to nail down a definition
of faith, but, in the face of opposition, Christians typically
indicate to me that faith involves believing something without
proof and often without the necessity of applying reason.
There are a number of inconsistencies with this concept.

First, I ask the question, how is it that someone comes to
know their faith? Surely it requires some level of rationality
and acceptance of the validity of sensory experience merely
to be able to physically read the Bible and have conversations
with those who held individuals come to know their faith. It
requires a basic acceptance of logic to contemplate faith, to
understand sentences in the Bible, and to make inferences
based on its content. To reject the role of rationality altogether
in faith is simply nonsense. As such, I propose that rationality
is necessarily the basis for acquiring any faith. Faith should
not be divorced from reason. Reason alone endows us as
intelligent beings capable of understanding any faith and,
consequently, choosing to accept or reject it.

Secondly, I ask, what is one’s basis for accepting the Bible
as the ultimate truth? To argue that the Bible offers infallible
truth because it says it does so in the Bible is clearly not a
valid position. The circularity of logic here could apply to
any text or speaker who declares that he/she/it contains the
real truth of existence and morality. More often, Christians
answer this question by saying that they know it to be the
ultimate truth by faith alone, without proof. This is sometimes
described as a gut feeling or more specifically as the result of
some personal revelation. The problem with this answer is
that fervent believers of other religions have equal claims.
If someone were to try and convince me that the Bible is the
ultimate source of all truth because they know it on faith, then,

I ask, how is their faith any different than that of a devout
Muslim who proclaims the truth of the Koran? If it really
is all about faith, then what is the tie-breaker? How would I
know who to believe? There can be no answer based on faith
alone. Without reason, there is no argument for the primacy
of one religion over another. Without a rational foundation
for faith, a belief in the Christian God is no more valid than
my devout belief in the “Flying Spaghetti Monster”.

I’d like to probe further into the question of a person’s
basis for accepting the Bible as the ultimate source of truth.
Generally-speaking, the Christian tradition affirms belief in
the existence of both God (good) and Satan (evil). Satan is
described as deceitful and tempting, always trying to draw
followers away from God. The question I ask, is how do
Christians come to know God is good? In other words, how
did they determine in the first place that it was appropriate
to follow this God? With no prior basis for discerning what
should and should not be done, we could not determine with
certainty that subscribing to God’s rules for morality was the
correct decision. If someone has no pre-existing notion of
what is good and what is bad, then choosing God over Satan
would be arbitrary. There would be no way of knowing that
it was not God doing the deceiving and Satan offering the
truth.

What I propose is that we each have an innate sense of
what is good, although the specifics of this are certainly not
equivalent among people. It is this sense that directs some
toward belief in the Christian God and rejection of Satan,
some toward belief in Allah or Yahweh, some toward other
deities or spiritualities, and some toward nothing at all.

What I am trying to do here is not to discredit the Bible
or Christianity. I find Christianity to be primarily a beautiful
religion that teaches people first and foremost to treat one
another with respect, compassion and love. It would be
difficult to find fault with this aim. My point is only that
the validity of any particular religious tradition cannot be
proven. Even the most fervent Christians I have ever known
have expressed periods of doubt in their faith at times in their
lives. Given this uncertainty, it is simply inappropriate to
impose the particular moral obligations of a religious text that
cannot, itself, be validated, when these moral obligations are
not compatible with our basic notion of decency and equality.
Christians generally no longer stand by the Bible’s support of
human slavery, because it offends their notions of what is good
and decent. In like manner, passages that allegedly condemn
homosexuality (although it is disputed that they actually do
so) should be subjected to the same test of goodness, decency
and reason before becoming measurements of morality. Let
us err on the side of respect, love and compassion for all.

David Mitchell ’10 is an economics major from Ellicott
City, MD. Contact him at damitchell@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009 9

ee

< one» ati Fort: Hood; or “an honor.

sand government, try as’ hard,
sam. W tor ‘avoid ain

. jot in response 6! cartoons! Is: it, when you «push fo
> \ the- prohibition ‘Of, criticism of Islam in’ human rights.
S eile: Is: it- when. you celebrate the. deaths of 2, 913

: people? No; but he did 4 attend the Dar al- “Hijrah mosque’
_ while Anwar al-Awlaki-was the imam. Anwar al-Awlaki-
_ spiritually“counseled three 9/11 hijackers and continues:
_ the role for many more Islamo-fascists worldwide. Hassan .
: also repeatedly stressed the need for Muslims tor rise ues

ee ae, yw

‘ed cnt will also grieve for diversity her

e

Jangerous Bet oe the. resulting diversity, Whil

Bi en
diverse aate

