AN

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Local food initiatives have been garner-
ing more and more attention on campus, but
students are certainly not the only ones in-
vested in sustaining Davidson’s agriculture
and community. For over a year, the David-
son Farmer’s Market (DFM) has been trans-
forming town Saturdays into festive market
days, and as a new Spring season approaches,
more markets are cropping up in the area.

The DFM is run with sponsorship from
its parent organization, Downtown David-
son, and an organizing committee, which
inchides Davidson Associate Professor of
Religion Lynn Poland, Scott Sherrill 08 and
Katie Epstein ’10.

“I would say the biggest challenge, plan-
ning, has become one of our most important
assets,” market co-chair Mary Jane Leach
said. “At the beginning we were required by
the Town and Downtown Davidson to write
a detailed business plan, and it has become
second nature for the committee to make de-
cisions based on careful planning and group
discussion.”

Products sold at the DFM are held to the
highest standards of quality, purity and fresh-
ness. The market carefully controls the fresh-
ness of baked goods (which must be made
within 24 hours prior to selling) and the us-
age of terms like “organic.”

Prepared foods must be made from local-
ly grown ingredients (the market encourages
their vendors to grow as many as possible”
themselves), and all meat, eggs and dairy are
required to have been raised on the seller’s
own property. The vendors who sell meats
and prepared foods at the DFM must be li-
censed by the North Carolina Department
of Agriculture in order to sell at any mar-
ket. This licensing includes a kitchen inspec-
tion and proper labeling for all products.

“DFM just makes sure they are comply-
ing with the law,” Leach explained; “Tt’s a

a

best practice we picked up from some of
the markets we aspire to be like—Carrboro,
Matthews, Asheville.”

Leach explained that the DFM has re-
ceived advice and assistance from many es-
tablished farmer’s markets in the region in
the past and hopes to use their success to be a
resource for smaller markets.

Most of the market’s shoppers are from
nearby, reinforcing the focus on local com-
munity-building, but the market has also at-
tracted attention from neighboring communi-
ties. “We did a one-day study at the market
last year and about 75 percent were from Da-
vidson and surrounding towns,” Leach said.
“There were a few from Charlotte.”

The DFM welcomes farmers from all
over the Piedmont of North and South Caro-
lina. Farmers and producers apply in Febru-
ary for either a full or half season at the mar-
ket. Leach explained that it is the market’s
policy to maintain a 75/25 ratio of fresh pro-
duce and meats to non-produce items such
as baked goods, soaps and crafts. “We have
no exclusively craft vendors,” she said, “ be-
cause our focus is on the food.”

Many Davidson students are enthusiastic
about having a community market so close
by. “I love farmer’s markets,” Kara Jones
12, a volunteer at the Davidson Farmer’s
Market, said. “They’re really great. And it’s
getting more popular. It brings the commu-
nity together, because people come out and

see each other. And it helps the local farmers, °

because they don’t have to worry about ship-
ping as much if they can sell more locally,
and it cuts down on gas costs. And people
have fresh food.”

Edie Surratt, the co-chair of the organiz-
ing committee, explained that the market’s
advertising comes mostly from their partner-
ship with DavidsonNews.net and their own
ads and press releases in such publications
as Lake Norman Magazine and the Charlotte
Observer. She also credited the Davidson
Farmer’s Market bumper magnet that cars all

Town to receive first public sculpture:
“A Bouquet for Davidson”

Jesse JOHNSO!
Staff Writer

Many students may not have noticed, but
the town of Davidson does not display any
public art. However, in April, that will all
change with the installation of “A Bouquet
for Davidson,” a 15-foot metal sculpture, in
the plaza between Main Street and the Post
Office.

The artist is Andy Dunnill, “Davidson’s
first artist-in-residence” according to a “Da-
vidson News” network website. Art com-
mission member and Davidson Professor of
Art Cort Savage said that the art contribu-
tion “will make a great addition to the town,
county, state and region.”

When asked his opinion on why it took
Davidson this long to get a public art sculp-
ture, Savage said, “I don’t think members of
town government were ever not interested, it
was just never presented in a way that was
feasible for the town to pursue.”

But, after a two-year process that lead to
the expenses and development of “A Bou-
quet for Davidson,” that consisted of meet-
ings, proposal, a visit and lecture by Dunnill,
and discussions about public art, Davidson
is finally one step away from this gift. As a
sculptor, Savage said that he is “skeptical of
anything that undermines the meaning of an
artist’s creative efforts or waters down the
potential significance art can have...The po-
tential meaning of artis so, so much bigger
than function.” Savage is an advocate for get-
ting a public work that was more significant,
rather than only decoration.

There are individuals who may be skep-

Andy Dunnill is the artist behind “A
Bouquet for Davidson.”

tical about the idea of a public work in the
town, but is more than just a sculpture in
Downtown Davidson. “A Bouquet for Da-
vidson” can be used as motivation for stu-
dents in the art department or just a visual
artwork for interested students. “Some
people will like the work immediately, others
may not,” Savage said. “Like anything, the
more you know about it, the more interesting
it gets.”

Who is Dunnill? He has work dis-
played in New York, at the Sculpture Center,
Roosevelt Island and Long Island Univer-
sity; with work also located in Chicago at the
Navy Pier, St. Paul’s Western Sculpture Park
in Minnesota and Franconia Sculpture Park
in Minnesota. On April 25 at 11 a.m., Dun-
nill will be able to officially say he has an
exhibit located in Davidson, North Carolina,
with the dedication ceremony during the an-
nual Art of the Green Festival.

_impenows _CNEWS: —_-
Farmer’s Market furthers emphasis on

local initiatives

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 18, 2009

Residents shop at the Davidson Farmer’s Market, one of many local food initiatives.

over the area sport to display their member-
ship in and allegiance to the market.

The Davidson Farmer’s Market isn’t the
only Saturday market around town, however.
The Bradford Store, a small, independently
run farm shop on Davidson-Concord Rd, has
just opened a Saturday Fish Market in collab-
oration with Carolina Seafood, an expansion
of the Davidson-based Hattie’s Fresh mar-
ket. The store sells local and organic produce
(including items grown right on the fam-
ily farm), homemade dairy products, baked
goods and a selection of old-fashioned dry
goods and now, on Saturdays, fresh fish.

Last July, David and Josh Meeks decid-
ed to open a shop inspired by local coastal
markets and their own childhood memories
of wholesome family dinners, and Hattie’s

Link yourself into Washington,
Georgetown University this summer.

aan

“4

Virginia beaches.

sons sencee sats MI plea y! «Visit http://summerschool.

CHOOSE CHANGE

THis summer at Georgetown University.

« Learn with students from all over the world while
you experience life in the nation’s capital.

® Network with professionals who can help you advance your career.
® Enjoy the Georgetown shopping district, area parks, national

monuments, museums, art. night life, and nearby Maryland and

« Take advantage of an opportunity that can happen anly this
summer at Georgetown.

HTTP: //SUMMERSCHOOL. GEORGETOWN. EDU9 202.687.8700.

Fresh Market was born. They offer North
Carolina flounder, crab and oysters, along
with a wide selection of freshly caught fish
and seafood. Now shoppers can stop by the
Bradford Store after their visit to the David-
son Farmer’s Market to check out the tempt-
ing selection on Saturdays from 10 a.m.-3
p-m..

There are more ways to get involved in
local markets than simply shopping, howev-
er. Leach and Surratt stressed that the DFM
always needs volunteers to set up and take
down the tents in late spring and summer and
to help with advertising in the spring. Office
work, including help with grantwriting, is
also in demand. Interested volunteers should
contact Surratt at info@davidsonfarmers-
market.org.

ie

georgetown.ecu

DC, at

CHOOSE FROM OVER
300 COURSES

Take courses that span the intellectual
spectrum-~including art, math, science,
business, public policy, languages,
international studies, theology,
gender studies, and more.

ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PROGRAMS

Intern and Study: The Semester in
Washington Program
June 1 - August 7, 2009
Intern at Washington, DC area government
agencies, firms, nonprofits, corporations, and
the Congress while earning academic credit
through related courses.
scs.georgetown edaAwashington

hae

Summer Arabic and Persian
Language Institute

Ist Session: June 1 ~ July 2, 2009

2nd Session: July 6 - August 7, 2009
Learn Modern Standard Arabic, Arabic
diatects (Egyptian, Levantine, and Iraqi),
Persian, and Turkish this summer.
&cs.georgetown.edu/arabicpersian
