4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“ Ke * °

News

Social Justice Ministry team to
host Restorative Justice forum

- Kara JONES
Staff Writer

This Saturday, Oct. 10, the Social Justice
Ministry team of Davidson United Methodist
Church will be hosting a community forum
on Restorative Justice/Victim-Offender Me-
diation.

Our current justice system has been the
source of dissatisfaction for a long time
now. Many argue that criminal offenders are
punished but often do not see the impact of
their crimes, which leaves victims and com-
munities feeling angry and bitter that justice
has not fully been met. Furthermore, when
the offenders do not see the effects of their
crimes, they hesitate less to repeat their
wrongs.

Restorative justice is a philosophy of
justice that takes a different approach to ret-
ribution punitive consequences by focusing
on making the offender pay for wrong done.
This is done through the mediation of the
three parties hurt by the crime—the victim,
offender and the community. In this way, the
offender is seen to have acted against an indi-
vidual and community rather than the broad,
anonymous state system.

Restorative Justice works through recon-
ciliation programs in which, with the help of
a mediator, the affected parties can meet and
agree upon restitution for the problem. This
restitution can be delivered in several forms,
including money, community service or spe-
cific service to the victim.

The practice allows for something be
done to fix the problem rather than putting it
into the hands of lawyers who will only deal
with legally relevant issues to protect their

RESEARCH AWARD

Again this year, funds from
the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be
available to support worthy initiatives by current

client, as opposed to branching out and find-
ing solutions beyond the legally relevant, as
well as trying to heal relationships.

For youthful and first-time offenders,
whose offenses will normally be small in
scale, mediation and reconciliation could
lead them to a better path in life, lifting them
out of what could be a lifetime of crime.

After Dr. Jody Seymour, the senior pastor
at Davidson United Methodist Church, intro-
duced the topic of restorative justice a year
ago, the Social Justice Ministry team thought
that this might be an avenue worth pursuing
for youthful and first time offenders in Meck-
lenburg County.

Bob Haupt, a delegate from the com-
mittee, said he thinks this target audience is
important, since “oftentimes the offenders
don’t get anything out of retributive justice.
Not much happens, and so they do it again.
Through restorative justice, they are shown
that what they have done is wrong, because
they often don’t understand how much dam-
age they can do to somebody.”

The committee has invited Marty Price,
a lawyer and advocate of restorative justice
from Asheville. It hopes that this community
forum may open doors for instituting Char-
lotte’s first restorative justice program.

The program will! operate on a volunteer
basis, where community members will un-
dergo training to serve as mediators and then
help with the restoration of the three parties.

Space for attending the forum is still
open, and the committee welcomes participa-
tion of those interested in the cause as well as
those who are possibly willing to volunteer
in the future. Those interested in attending
can contact Bob Haupt at 704-807-5450.

cd

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009

RY

Panel ‘talks trash’

Sustainability initiatives detailed

KELSEY LILLEY
News Editor

The Sustainability Office and the Vann
Center for Ethics sponsored a panel discus-
sion Monday entitled “Trash Talk: The Why
and How of Sustainable Waste Disposal.”
The panel included David Martin, Profes-
sor and Chair of the Economics Department,
Beth Christenbury, Director of Purchasing
and Kealy Devoy, Sustainability Fellow.

The panel began with Martin giving an
economics background to the sustainabil-
ity debate. He explained the principle of
revealed preferences, which looks at the de-
cisions people make, and shows what prefer-
ences they had at the time.

“[It’s a] powerful principle because it al-
lows us to see what people like,” he said.

Martin explained that ethics are a factor
in decision-making, but that economists pre-
sume individuals will make the choices that
are best for them at the time.

Martin then showed a few pictures. The
first was of a street in Mumbai, India, where
trash had been thrown out into the street.

“(The] point is just a different ethical
norm,” Martin said, continuing to explain
that most Hindus have a very strict sense of
personal cleanliness that is more important
than cleanliness of public streets. “You don’t
worry about this litter on the ground,” he
said, “because it is not part of your person.”

The second picture shown was of two
men dismantling an old computer that had
been thrown away, trying to salvage reus-
able parts. Martin used this photo as a segue
into the discussion of the ethics of American
waste disposal.

“What we Americans tend to do is hide
our garbage, shipping it somewhere else,” he
said.

The last picture Martin showed was of
a trash pile outside the fence of Davidson’s
guesthouse. Martin then detailed the history
of recycling at Davidson, which began as a
faculty, student and staff coalition who col-
lected and sorted all recyclables on their own
every week. When students and staff began
this initiative, Martin explained, a debate

was provoked.

“We asked, ] should [recycling] be some-
thing that the college does, or should it be a
social collective?” Martin said. Needless to
say, the college has since institutionalized
recycling, with bins available for each stu-
dent’s room.

After an introduction to the ethics of
waste disposal, Christenbury took the floor to
discuss the role of ethics in purchasing. She
stressed the importance of considering waste
before placing orders, and working closely
with suppliers to make as small an impact
as possible. Davidson also chooses suppliers
that support recycling and other sustainable
initiatives.

Other sustainable initiatives on campus
include the college bringing in a shredding
company called “Shred-it” once a year, and
allowing faculty to recycle any sensitive
documents for free; Davidson will also being
to use the new technology of “solid ink” in
printing, which virtually eliminates the waste
of printer cartridges. The college has begun
publishing budget reports online rather than
printing them, has set all college-run printers
to automatically duplex pages and does their
ordering online and combines purchases to
eliminate unnecessary deliveries.

Lastly, Devoy spoke about statistics from
the “Year of Sustainability” last year, stress-
ing the importance of education campaigns
in promoting ethical and sustainable deci-
sions regarding waste. For example, Engage
for Change has given out reusable water bot-
tles to incoming freshmen the past two years,
promoting sustainability and helping the col-
lege to reach its goal of reducing water bottle
consumption by 75 percent.

The outcome of these initiatives? Devoy
explained that Davidson catering eliminated
water bottle use altogether, and of the use
that could be tracked, Davidson as a whole
reduced their use by 85 percent. Other initia-
tives include composting, PawPrint and mo-
tion sensors for lights.

Despite no longer being the “Year of Sus-
tainability,” Davidson continues to look for
new and innovative ways to promote sustain-
able activities.

sible for us to fund a senior who expects to com-
plete all research work prior to graduation.]
Individual awards fall into one
of the following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or
social sciences, either in the US or abroad.

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students
during the academic year or the summer.

&

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to
projects that fall within the humanities
and social sciences.]

Application forms are available in the
Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
(Chambers 1283). Completed application forms
are due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m.
on Thursday, October 29, 2009. The announce-
ment of awards should occur prior to the exam
period of the fall semester.

‘BARREL EOI SISSON TESOL EESEEUEDE SOURED RSS D HE ELEESRUEDEESDIE DEEEEENESIES  S EEE GB AE TEETER ESLER

first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is pos- |

BARES BBE aE

10/01/09

21:55 hrs Vehicle stop

Officer witnessed a vehicle traveling West on Concord Rd. at an estimated speed in ex-
cess of 35 mph in a 25 mph zone. Officer was able to make a vehicle stop in front of the
Carolina Inn north bound on Main St. Upon stopping the vehicle Officer noticed that the
Illinois plate on the vehicle showed an expiration of July 2008. Upon approaching the
driver, Officer asked for the vehicle registration and the driver's license. The vehicle's
registration came back expired, however the subject showed proof that he was in the
process of registering it in North Carolina and had failed his N.C. driver's test but was
going to attempt to retake it.

10/02/09 04:50 hrs Weaponry

Officer while on routine patrol observed a vehicle with its interior lights on parked
near the BSC House. Reporting officer looked inside and observed what appeared to be
a compound bow under a blanket along with other hunting paraphernalia. Reporting
officer located the owner of the vehicle, a Davidson College student, who advised he
did have a compound bow in his vehicle and that he was going to go deer hunting on
Saturday morning. Reporting officer explained to that he was in possession of a weapon
on campus. Reporting officer seized the compound bow, eleven broad head arrows and
two-fixed blade knifes found in the vehicle. The property is now in possession of the
Campus Police. The student was very cooperative throughout the investigation.

10/05/09 10:49 hrs Damage to property

Officer responded to 406 Ridge Rd., Jamieson, in reference to damage to property. The
officer observed major damage to the smoke alarm system throughout the entire apart-
ment. Several wires were disconnected, the ceiling light had been busted, and a hammer

was observed on a chair in the hallway. The officer observed a ping pong table on the
porch along with beer cans and red cups thrown throughout the interior and exterior of
the apartment.

