6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009
Fishy, rom pase?) "Trin to China fuels a musical journey

of species together.

Also, some uncommon’ methods
employed by farmers to protect their crops
are endangering sea animals. Farmers protect
their fish from seals, sea lions and birds with
firecrackers and loud underwater speakers.
These strategies can cause disorientation, pain
or hearing loss for the animals. Sometimes,
these “predators” are even shot.

Using tight nets to prevent access to ponds,
tanks and net cages could easily eliminate the
need for these aggressive actions.

Increasingly, there has been a desire to
rely more on U.S. produced fish. The U.S.
Commerce Department recently called to
multiply the $1 billion domestic aquaculture
industry fivefold by 2025.

Additionally, several members of
Congress, working with the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, introduced
legislation to start farming fish in deep-sea,
federally owned waters, which are generally
located 3200 miles off-shore. This movement
would require strict environmental standards.
Right now, Congress believes the NOAA’s
legislation does not adequately protect the
environment.

Fish farming should become an important
issue in the coming years, as farmers
scramble to satisfy the world-wide demand
for seafood.

Organ series
continues

JANE CAIN
Guest Writer

Carey LeiGH EvANs
Staff Writer

After studying Chinese at Davidson for
three years, Sam Burns ”10 studied abroad in
Beijing last summer. There, he began lessons
on the erhu, a traditional Chinese instrument
originating from the northwestern area of
China. This region is inhabited by the non-
Han peoples.

The word erhu, which means “two
beard,” is nicknamed the “barbanan
instrument” because of the people with whom
it originated; two refers to the two strings on
the instrument.

The erhu is a traditional Chinese
instrument that is similar to the violin. It is
played with a bow that goes between the two
strings, which are usually tuned to A and D.

The two bowing techniques are la gong
and tui gong, similar to the “down bow”
and “up bow” techniques of western string
instruments. Both sides of the bow hair are
used to play the erhu. The inside string is
played when the bow is pushed away and the
outside when the musician draws the bow in.
The erhu can also be plucked, which creates
a more muted tone, sometimes necessary in
contemporary pieces.

Burns picked up the erhu when his study Sam Burns, a senior, traveled abroad to China last summer. While there, he took

abroad program offered free lessons that music lessons on the erhu (above). He continues to play at Davidson.
occured once a week for two hours. The class

had about ten students, and they began with
pieces like “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” and
“Edelweiss.” After a few classes, Burns and
classmates began playing more traditional
Chinese songs. Burns says that like the
violin, the technique is hard to master, and
the instrument can often sound screechy and
noisy during the early learning stages.

The erhu is Burns’ second instrument. Le oe se :
He has played the banjo for three years, and Staff Writer: --Fora sweeter quesadilla, use brie cheese
was originally instructed by his father and - , -and dried cranberries or sliced pears
self-taught during college. He now plays the o [ ;
banjo recreationally.

Since returning to the US, Burns also
occasionally plays the erhu in his apartment.
But he notes that the erhu produces quite a
loud sound and, because he is still learning
how to produce a consistant, musical tone,
can be quite an annoyance to his roommates.
Burns hopes to learn to play more traditional
songs, though he has also tried to play newer
material.

Because of the numerous ways that
the erhu can be played, musicians are not
confined to Chinese songs. Burns also said
the erhu is a popular street instrument,
though modem Chinese children rarely learn
to play it today. ues ‘i ’ other ingredients and continue mashing

Burns’ career aspiration is “to kick it | 49,4, with. the fork until’ well. incorporated
somewhere.” He is a philosophy major
who hopes to possibly retum to China,
specifically to Xinjian Uighur, the erhu’s
place of origination. If this goal is realized,
Burns says he will learn to play traditional
Chinese songs on the erhu — and to play them
well.

courtesy photo

In addition to blockbuster composers—
from Bach and Buxtehude to Vierne and
Widor— Katie Ann McCarty has interspersed
compatible poetry with her chosen works,
kicking it up a notch for the fourth year of
Organ at Davidson’s innovative series.

Associate Director of Music and an
organist at Davidson United Methodist
Church, Katie Ann McCarty completed
undergraduate work at Oberlin College and
Conservatory and received her Master of
Music and doctorate from Arizona State
University. She studied at the Conservatoire
National de Region in Bordeaux, France.

With a specialty in classical and
romantic French organ music, Ms.
McCarty has performed extensively as a
soloist both nationally and abroad. She
enjoys accompanying choirs, soloists and
instrumental ensembles. Her talent is sure to
shine on DCPC’s refurbished Wicks organ.

A reception arranged by Friends of the
Organ follows each Organ at Davidson
program. The shows are free, though
donations will be gratefully accepted to
help continue and further enhance Organ at
Davidson offerings. The concert on Tuesday,
November 10 starts at 7:30 p.m. in DCPC’s
sanctuary. See www.dcpc.org or call 704-

892-5641 for more details.

Wed. 11/4 Thur. 11/5 Fri. 11/6 Sat. 11/7 Sun. 11/8 Mon. 11/9 Tue. 11/10

Brite Divinity Informa- | Davidson Law Schoolj Pirates of Penzance

tion Session Fair Tyler Taliman Hall Project Life Bone
aon 313 sown Atrium 7:30 p.m Pirates of Penzance Marrow Typing Driv:
230 p.m p-m ler Tallman Hall Union Atrium
Dance Ensemble ™ p.m Kendrink K. Kelly lla.m
Math Coffee: “Get into | The Mission Of Duke Family Perfor- Lecture In Historical | project Life Bone Mar-
the Zome” Activity Healthcare mance Hall Studies row Typing Drive
Chambers 2164 900 Room 8 p.m Dr. James Goodman | Union Atrium

6:45 p.m Sp.m Dance Ensemble 900 room llam
Jessie Parker Con- | Duke Family Perfor- | 7°39 P-™
Outpost Trivia Night Healthcare Reform cert mance Hall
Outpost Panel 900 Room 8 p.m
ll p.m Lilly Family Gallery | 9:30 p.m
I p.m

A Chopin Soiree
Tyler Tallman Hali
7:30 p.m

