Tue DAVIDSONIAN

DesPain’s depiction of Gaza

PERSPECTIVES

conflict decidedly one-sided

HANAN ABDUL HapI
Guest Columnist

On Jan. 15, Sir Gerald Kaufman, a British Labor Member
of Parliament, recalled a powerful quote by former Israeli
Foreign Minister Abba Eban who said, “You make peace by
talking to your enemies.” Abba Eban’s perspective is one
that is still desperately needed in the Middle East today. The
region has been in a state of persistent turmoil for well over
60 years, a state of turmoil that is only worsening with no
peaceable end in sight.

While both Palestinians and Israelis shoulder huge
amounts of responsibility for the current state of turmoil,
the recent attacks on Gaza signaled a fatal breakdown in the
path to peace. Israel’s harsh and disproportionate response to
Hamas’ meager rocket attacks was not only unjust, but also
counter to any conception of human rights.

The situation in Gaza had long been degenerating. After
Israel pulled out from Gaza in 2005, a democratic election
resulted in a Hamas-led government. Regardless of the
international community’s opinion of Hamas, the Palestinian
people voted into office those leaders that they felt would
best serve their interests. After years of living under a corrupt
and ineffectual Fatah government, people were in need
of a government that would provide them with the social
services that Fatah had failed to secure and the promise of a
government that would not pusillanimously pander to Israel.

The frustration that had been mounting for decades
had finally manifested. Understandably, the international
community did not perceive Hamas in the same way; in a
show of blatant hypocrisy, the world moved to isolate the
party that had won by means of the very system of democracy
it has championed for so long.

The double standards that the world
continues to uphold are baffling.

In response to increasing isolation, Hamas resorted
to short-range rocket attacks into Israel. Setting aside the
question of whether such attacks were excusable given the
situation in the Gaza Strip at the time, Israel’s response was
a harsh blockade which prevented any food, fuel or medical
supplies from reaching the Strip, which is today the most
densely populated part of the world, with over 1.5 million
people living in an area no larger than 360 sq km (224 sq
mi).

This blockade, which had been ongoing for months before
Israel’s war on Gaza, left people impoverished, starving
and living in complete darkness. The severity and difficulty
of the lives Gazans led during the months of blockade is
unimaginable to a point that one can hardly believe that in
the last few weeks Gazans had been boiling grass and baking
livestock feed to sustain themselves. And yet, the world was
silent while Israel created the world’s largest prison camp.

Contrary to the claims made in last week’s article,
World’s Response to Israel Disproportionate,” Israel does
not “take great care to harm civilians” and did not “allow
ambulances or supply trucks to operate unhindered.” Medical
equipment and drugs were constantly in short supply.
Moreover, contrary to the claims Mr. DesPain made last
week, Hamas did not place rocket-launching points near
civilian buildings. One must realize exactly how densely
populated the Gaza Strip is and thus any rocket-launching
site is in a civilian area. Thus Israel was de facto targeting
civilians and its leaflet drops and warnings served no purpose
other than to absolve themselves of responsibility. After all,
where could Gazans escape to if its borders were closed and

The simple reality is that the cries of
Gaza went unheard because no one
was there to truly listen.

surrounded?

Last week, that same article made the following argument,
“Imagine that every day the citizens of San Antonio were
greeted with rocket strikes from Mexico. How long do you
think the United States would wait before striking back?”
While that question is valid, I ask this one: imagine that
an enemy blockaded the United States and its citizens had
resorted to eating grass and livestock feed. How long would
it be before the United States launched whatever improvised
rockets it could into enemy territory?

Yes, the argument that Hamas should have sought other,
more diplomatic, means to end the blockade is legitimate.

However, having been increasingly isolated for years, if
Hamas had not done something radical that demanded
attention, no one would have heard the cries of the people
of Gaza. In fact the conditions in Gaza recall the infamous
question, if a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear
it, does it make a sound?

The simple reality is that the cries of Gaza went unheard
because no one was there to truly listen. For years, however,
the children of Palestine have continued to suffer. A recent
psychological study by Dr. Iyad Sarraj revealed that, having
witnessed family members beaten and killed and their homes
bulldozed to the ground, many Palestinian children no longer
believed that life was worth living. They had simply lost the
will to live. It is therefore clear that Israel is in fact breeding
the very anger and frustration it claims to be neutralizing.
Israel is reaping the seeds it sowed. It seems Abba Eban’s

The irony is that for years while the
world was in uproar over improvised
Palestinian weapons, it was
deafeningly silent toward Israel.

words have long been forgotten.

Setting aside the situation in Gaza before the attacks,
Israel’s actions were radically disproportionate and that is
likely what caused so much international outrage. In twenty-
three days, 1300 Palestinians were killed. I will not warrant
the number of Palestinian lives lost with the number on the
Israeli side because not only are the numbers severely skewed
but also because I find such comparisons insulting, turning
human lives into a simple arithmetical problem.

Essentially, even one life lost is one too many. Although
we are all created equal (or so we claim to believe) we should
not have to live by that belief in death. As Gandhi once said,
“An eye for an eye and the whole world would be blind.”

The double standards that the world continues to uphold
are baffling. For years Palestinian children have thrown stones
at Israeli tanks rolling through their neighborhoods blasting
buildings to the ground. And yet, the world for years deemed
those children terrorists. Of course, Palestinians have used
more extreme tactics than stone throwing, however, none of
these tactics involved U.S.-made weapons, fighter jets, tanks
or white phosphorus.

My belief was always that we are all

human beings in need of a home and

that nothing but the divisive labels we
create separate us.

The irony is that for years while the world was in uproar
over improvised Palestinian weapons, it was deafeningly
silent toward Israel. The only victory for Gazans in the
aftermath of the war is that the world, for the first time in
decades, has broken its silence. It is a small victory but one
that Palestinians turn to for comfort. The world, today, has
heard their screams.

As a Palestinian myself, I naturally have my own inherent
biases. For years, however, I have prided myself as having
come from a family of educated liberals. I grew up accepting
Israel as a state for the sake of peace. It is clear that a two-
state solution is the only path to peace. And, although I come
from a family of refugees, I have always searched within
myself for some compassion, sympathy and understanding
with regards to Israel. My belief was always that we are all
human beings in need of a home and that nothing but the
divisive labels we create separate us.

However, while I was in the Middle East in the midst of
the war on Gaza, I noticed a sad and disappointing change.
While Israel argued that its attacks were meant to neutralize
Hamas and end Arab support for it, its air strikes and ground
offensive prompted an extremely contrary response. Even the
most liberal and the most moderate Arabs and Palestinians,
those who had for years supported a two-state solution, grew
increasingly enraged and frustrated. Israel, which had never
really enjoyed much favor in the region, sunk to an all-time
low in the eyes of Arabs. As a result, peace today is more
elusive than ever.

Hanan Abdul Hadi finished her Davidson coursework
this past December. She now lives in Boston, Mass. Contact
her at haabdulhadi@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009 9

In- his - article. fitled - World’s - Response, to. Israel;
_ Disproportionate,” ” Bobby DesPain concluded by stating”
_ that ifthe problems of the Middle East are to be solved, then.

_ Hamas must be confronted. In fact; it seems his message i
‘ _ that Hamas is the source of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
| and that their removal will bring stability and peaces The:
facts. of situation, however, clearly indicate this. view

2 BB

E ee, ae: -
Cece De

e Even if Hamas were removed, the strife would persis
The violence does not stem from Hamas or any one group
: _The true source of conflict i is revealed by the length of ume:

’ this war has lasted. Hamas i isa comparatively new power, :

_chiefly* arisen in the fast couple’ of decades, while the”
_ struggle as a whole has raged since the original Partition.

- in 1947, and arguably even before that. Even the PLO or,
Fatah, the oldest of Palestinian liberation groups, doesn’
date back: to the beginning of Israeli Palestinian, conflict:
pThere i is no one group responsible for this stiife, as Bob

_Asrael of 1947 was ‘greeted with open arms by:the Jewish
_ population, yet rejected universally by: the Palestinians, :
i _ id understandably sd It allotted over half of the count

militarily” ‘much of. what we now, “define as. its ‘currents
pertory: ee has seen the Palestinians i in possession,

| “received tle, intemational suppo
0 would use violence a: ;
sis not the’ true. source. of the gngelnes

Eryn Hom Nee

P hon. must ¢n
_Asvaelis nd Pale:
2 EB rit: gh ewis

the Jewi

~alestinians/This would undoubtedly involve alloting the

gi

we

ce falls. “upon, Israel, If Israel truly Seeks pe
y inj § that enabled ‘th

Contact him a at desl dav

A
