2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CK ATE KELLY
Managing Editor

The desire for a historically black sorori-
ty on Davidson’s campus began 11 years ago
through the vision of several students who
saw a need for an organization that promoted
sisterhood and service among women. This
vision became a reality this past month with
the establishment of Davidson’s Sigma Psi
chapter of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority.

Now a member of the Davidson College
community and Patterson Court, AKA’s es-
tablishment signifies the changing face of
Davidson College student organizations. This
past December AKA hosted their first ever
probate on Davidson’s campus, solidifying
the membership of their first 13 sisters.

“One of the high standards
of AKA is to give back and
alleviate prpblems concern-

ing girls and women.”
-Kim Yarde ’ 11

Given that AKA is historically black,
many rumors and misunderstandings arose
last semester concerning who this sorority
targets to become a member. The group ad-
mits that there is some confusion surrounding
their place on campus and will be sponsoring
serveral infomational sessions to educate the
study body on what it means to be an AKA.
Additionally, there will be several informa-
tional sessions for girls interested in joining
AKA this semester.

The current group of thirteen comes from
all backgrounds and ethnicities with a unify-
ing interest in upholding sisterhood, scho-
lastic excellence and community service.
“There’s no bid process or algorithm to be-
coming an AKA,” member and president of
AKA Kim Yarde ’11 said. Yarde wants the
campus to understand that they are a group
for all women, and emphasized, “We accept
girls of any race.”

News
AKA’s thirteen ‘pearls’ debut at Davidson

&

The thirteen members of the newly established Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, Da-
vidson’s first nationally recognized sorority on campus.

The days of Rusk, Tumer, Connor and
Warner being the only options for girls are
over.

With eating houses traditionally be-
ing the only major social organizations for
girls, AKA’s presence brings with it a new
approach to sisterhood. AKA differentiates
itself from eating houses on campus in that
their goals of service and scholastic excel-
lence are prioritized above social events. “In
terms of planning parties or parties for fund-
raising, we won’t be doing that,” Yarde said.

In its first semester on campus, AKA
plans to sponsor several drives and fundrais-
ers to support organizations that promote
women’s rights.

“One of the high standards of AKA is to
give back and alleviate problems concerning
girls and women,” Yarde said. The Flo Crit
Home in Charlotte is a potential organization
for a community service connection with
AKA. Flo Crit primarily does service work
to support struggling teenage mothers in the
Charlotte area.

As an undergrad chapter, encouraging

technological education is another aspect
to the AKA platform of service. Additional
events will be focused around this goal of
teaching technological literacy to those in
need.

Coming up the second week in Februrary,
AKA will participate with the Kappas during
their “Kappa Week” in a discussion based
event that will address the cultural gender-
related demands that men and women face
today. This event will be interactive and en-
courages community involvement from both
the members of AKA and Kappas as well as
the Davidson College community. AKA will
continue to co-sponsor events with the Kap-
pas and Alphas in the future.

The 13 “pearls” or members of AKA
expressed their excitement for their first se-
mester of activities on campus. Ebony Har-
ley ’09 shared her reasons for joining AKA,
“The fact that the purpose of Alpha Kappa
Alpha Sorority is to encourage high scholas-
tic and ethical standards, promote unity and
friendship among college women, study and
help alleviate problems concerning girls and

Keeping Davidson small as it crows f

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

“We must remain a village and not be-
come a suburb,” former mayor Randall Kin-
caid said concerning the future of the town
of Davidson. These guiding words flashed
on a screen during a power-point presenta-
tion by Lauren Blackburn, a Davidson Town
Planner, to a group of around 100 citizens on
Monday evening. This meeting was the first
Comprehensive Plan meeting in 2009 that in-
cluded all seven town-planning study groups
on the subject.

These study groups will address differ-
ent topics as the town looks to systematically
plan for its future by developing a Compre-
hensive Plan over the next year and a half or
so. This plan will address virtually all facets
of small-town life here in Davidson, and the
study groups will address diverse topics such
as environmental sustainability, community
character and growth management.

According to the packet handed out to
attendees at the meeting, “A Comprehensive
Plan describes a vision for the long-term fu-
ture of a town or area considering its regional
context and growth trends.” Blackburn said
that this is a broad and flexible, long-range
plan. “This is going to be a living document
that will inform officials in the future”, she
said.

The meeting, unlike the orientation meet-
ing in late 2008, was an introduction to the
history and principles of planning in the

town, as well as a primer for the direction of
the Comprehensive Plan and the topics each
study group will discuss in the upcoming
months.

Blackburn said that the Plan is intended
for when current area growth ceases. She
mentioned that while many other local mu-
nicipalities, like Cornelius, are running out
of land capital to develop because of their
tremendous and rapid growth, Davidson still
has much undeveloped land. This gives the
town an opportunity to officially decide what
form it would like to take once the growth
stops. Blackburn said that while the town’s
current population is right under 10,000 peo-
ple, the town’s population size could triple in
the next twenty-five to thirty years.

Kris Krider, the Planning Director for the
town, gave an overview of the eight prin-
ciples that guide the town’s planning at the
beginning of the power-point presentation.
These include preserving “Davidson’s sta-
tus as a small town,” preserving “substantial
amounts of open space” and re-establishing
“our historic diversity of people,” according
to the power-point presentation.

In order to facilitate the goal of re-estab-
lishing diversity, Krider cited a town law that
requires every developer to set aside 12.5%
of all new developments as affordable hous-
ing (the definition of affordable will be re-
viewed by a study group). Another planning
principle states, “Development must proceed
no faster than the town can provide public
facilities.” This principle takes concrete form

in the Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance
(APFO), which, through its mandates, essen-
tially ensures that communities develop as a
whole instead of in parts.

These very specific goals demonstrate
tconcrete steps that the town is making to
maintain its unique character. “We are one
community,” said Blackburn. “We want Da-
vidson to look like Davidson.”

This goal has taken several forms, in-
cluding ordinances like the APFO, rules
about building construction and appear-
ance and other rules and regulations. Com-
mercial buildings have to be a minimum of
two stories tall, and Krider pointed out that
high quality materials are required. Drive-
throughs are also prohibited, although this
has not hurt local businesses. Krider cited the
example of CVS Pharmacy, which doubled
its business when it moved to its current lo-
cation in Davidson, despite the fact that, un-
like most other CVS stores in the nation, it
does not have a drive-through.

Blackburn pointed out that monuments at
the entrances of neighborhoods are prohibit-
ed in Davidson, emphasizing the town’s con-
viction that Davidson is not just a group of
citizens in disparate neighborhoods but is a
cohesive community. Blackburn argued that
while developers might not like the extensive
regulations the town has adopted, the major-
ity of citizens appreciate the laws.

The Comprehensive Plan hopes to be the
next step of many in maintaining and enrich-
ing Davidson’s unique character.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

women and is of service to all mankind, is
the motivating force for me to be a part of
the sorority.”

“IT know that AKA will al-
ways be a part of my life,
regardless of where I find
myself.”
-Ebony Harley ’09

Now that Davidson has established its
first sorority on campus, students have begun-
to wonder whether other historically black
sororities, such as Delta Sigma Theta will
come to Davidson as well. For now though,
AKA remains Davidson’s only national so-
rority on campus, one that, as Harley said, “is
areal sisterhood and one that extends beyond
college and to all corners of the globe, so I
know that AKA will always be a part of my
life, ©, regardless of where I find myself.”

a
Me
2,
“9
Z
“oo
Fad
a
a
.&
Eee
"
6

J peri r
000 labyrinth isa nicely paved circle

The aim of the labyrinth is to provide
etree commen at-large with.
in

s the complete renovation of its neig
¢ Hobart pale pe small, fireplaced

