2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FANcISCO FIALLO

Staff Writer

Upcoming changes to the chartering pro-
cess could introduce limits on funding for
student organizations. At the Student Gov-
ernment Association’s (SGA) meeting last
Thursday, President Davis Greene *09 out-
lined a set of reforms intended to maintain
the “sustainability and uniqueness” of orga-
nizations that would include annual reviews
by the Charters and Bylaws Committee.

Currently, charters are renewed by the
Charters and Bylaws Committee chair, who
operates without guidelines or requirements.

The new system, which was developed
by Greene, Charters and Bylaws Commit-
tee chair Emily Cannon ’09 and Coordinator
of Student Activities William Brown, would
split organizations into five groups: those that
are registered, those with a provisional char-
ter, and those with class I, II and III charters.

Registered organizations would be al-
lowed to reserve rooms, hold fundraisers, ad-
vertise in The Crier, and recruit members at
the activities fair, but could not receive funds
from the Activities Tax Council (ATC).

The ATC would approve provisional
charters and allow up to $350 in funding,
providing the organization had drafted a
written constitution.

Organizations with class I and II charters
would have their funds capped at $1000 and
$10,000 respectively. Organizations with
class III charters would have unlimited funds
and be able to pay its members. To avoid
runaway increases in compensation to stu-
dents, pay would be limited to one percent
of total funds (which were $546,150 for the
2008-09 academic year).

If this system were implemented, mem-
bers of the ATC and the Charters and Bylaws
Committee would classify existing organiza-
tion into the three classes of charters, based
on evaluations of an organization’s “activi-
ties, uniqueness, co-sponsorships, and use
of funding.” Future organizations would
have restrictions imposed on how much they

~~. wae -

al

could grow in a given year: an organization
would have to be registered for 45 days until
it could apply for a provisional charter.

Organizations with a provisional charter
would have to hold it for either a calendar
year or until March of the next academic
year, whichever is shorter, at which point
they could apply for a class I charter. The
same waiting period would be required for
class I organizations seeking class II status,
and class II groups seeking class III charters.

The limits on growth worried some stu-
dents: first-year senator Jordan Starck °12
asked whether an organization with even
modest start-up costs could get started. Ki-
ara Boone ’11 responded that emergency al-
locations were available from the ATC for
organizations that need more than $350 to
accomplish their goals.

At the meeting, Greene mentioned one
way the school is coping with the difficult
economic climate: the trustees will be ex-
panding the class of 2013 to 495 students to
make up for the shortfall in revenue caused
by the endowment’s steep decline. He was
asked by Director of Residence Life Patty
Perillo to consider adjustments to accommo-
date the larger freshman class.

Independent Senator Severin Tucker ’09
suggested that rooms on the first and fourth
floors of Belk Dorm be used to house first.
year students. Greene replied that those op-
tions were being considered, but the fact that
most rooms on the fourth floor of Belk were
singles made it unlikely that they could be
used as first year. housing. Senator Lauren
Robles °10 expressed concern that having
such a large class would weaken the stu-
dent/faculty ratio, especially in light of the
college’s announced hiring freeze, to which
senior class president Richmond Blake °09
pointed out that the class of 2007 included
485 students, and reminded the SGA of for-
mer Davidson College President Robert Vagt
’69’s metaphor of the College as a snake that
would sometimes “swallow a large meal”
which would then work its way out of the
snake.

SGA President
SGA Vice President
Union Board President

Union Board Vice President

Activities Tax Council Vice Chair

Defense Advisors

Student Solicitors

Student Conduct Council Reps

Council on Campus and
Religious Life Reps

Review Board Rep

EE _ os. -

Student Electio

United Community Action President

Colby Howard ’12, Brian Platter °12,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

2"
n Result

Meikaela Zwierynznski’ 10

Baker Shogry 10

Allison Ruhe 710

Quentin Graham °10

Elizabeth Lacks ’10

Christie Mason ’10

Claire Peterson ’10, John Jertson *10

Jennifer DeKnight ’10,
Marshall Oelson 710

Annaliese Rosenthal ’10,
Andy Jones ’10

Michele Torsiglieri ’10,
Chelsea Heath °10

Daisy Karlson *11

TOWNHOME FOR RENT

2 bedroom, 2 bath townhome in Davidson,
within 1 mile of the school featuring:
cozy fireplace, appliances, water utilities
and a nice courtyard

CONTACT: BECKY STARR
704-662-6049

$750 a month
1 week free for the first month!

_|

Green Week events continue Year of Sustainability

-RACHEL ANDERSON AND UPASANA KHATRI
Environmental Interns

Davidson’s Year of Sustainability contin-
ues with a week perhaps even greener than
the rest. Green Week, an annual Davidson
tradition, will take place this year from Feb.
9 to 13 and will consist of several days of
programs put on by the Environmental Ac-
tion Coalition (EAC), a student organization
whose work is targeted at raising environ-
mental awareness on campus and promot-
ing efforts toward making Davidson College
more sustainable.

Events will include everything from arts
and crafts to service projects, and even a ball
will top it off. Davidson alum Kealy Devoy
’08, current Sustainability Fellow and former
EAC secretary, describes the organization’s
motivation for hosting Green Week and its
approach to appealing to a campus-wide au-
dience.

“The EAC wanted to educate David-
son’s campus about environmental issues,
both locally and globally,” Devoy explained.
“We felt that a good way to do this would
be to hold several events over a short pe-
riod of time that would draw students from
many backgrounds and groups. We aim to

keep programming varied and interesting,
so that something appeals to everyone.”
With its diverse assortment of programs this
‘year, Green Week might just offer something
of interest for everyone. The week will start
off Monday, Feb. 9, with “Wear Green Day”
and the inclusion of special “green” items
like “Green, Eggs & Ham” (spinach and ham
quiche) on the Union Café menu, which will
be offered throughout the week.

For the service-oriented, on Wednesday,
Feb. 11, the EAC will host a community ser-
vice project at the Ada Jenkins Community
Center, organized by Peggy McKay ’ 10. Vol-
unteers will work on Ada Jenkins’s commu-
nity garden, a local project which provides
fresh produce to its gardeners—the senior
citizens who take their lunches at the com-
munity center.

In the evening, award-winning journalist
Paul Roberts, author of “The End of Oil” and
“The End of Food,” will present a lecture,
“The End of Food: Injustices in the Global
Food System,” at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room
of the College Union.

Roberts plans to examine the complex in-
terplay of the environment, politics, econom-
ics and technology which he explores in his
books and through his work as a journalist,

paying close attention to the issues of energy
and oil.

Roberts, whose most recent book ad-
dresses injustices in the food system, is a
long-time observer of energy issues and poli-
tics. His vast experiences in the field of jour-
nalism include writing for such prestigious
publications as The Washington Post, USA
Today, Newsweek, The Christian Science
Monitor and Rolling Stone, and appearing
regularly on national and international tele-
vision and radio news shows such as CNN
American Morning and NPR’s Morning Edi-
tion. The lecture will be followed by a book
signing.

Roberts will also host a roundtable dis-
cussion, open to all, at 3:00 p.m. in Union
302, and a Wednesday Dean Rusk Breakfast
Series on the oil crisis Thursday morning.

Thursday night, from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m.,
the EAC will hold a valentine-making work-
shop in the Union Atrium, with a sustainable
twist. Participants will have the opportunity
to make valentines for their loved ones out of
recycled and reused material collected from
campus recycling bins.

Green Week will culminate Friday, Feb.
13, with the EAC’s Fifth Annual Green Ball,
a fundraiser for the Davidson Lands Conser-

vancy, a local non-profit that. works to pre-
serve green areas and protect biodiversity in
the town of Davidson. Contra dancing—a
form of traditional folk dancing comparable
to square or line dancing in which couples
dance in two facing lines—and bluegrass
music, performed by Asheville band Appala-
chian Storm, will be the order of the night.

According to Devoy, neither previous
contra dancing experience nor a date is re-
quired, as guests will be given dance instruc-
tions before each song and will be encour-
aged to switch partners after each dance,
as is tradition. The Eco-House, Davidson
College’s very own ecological cooperative,
will provide refreshments, and a silent auc-
tion featuring prizes such as vacation rentals,
cooking lessons, and the work of local artists
will be held throughout the night.

The Green Ball in the Lilly Gallery will
run from 7:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Tickets
for the event may be purchased throughout
Green Week at the Union for $10 ($12 at the
door, $5 children).

In their capacity as Environmental In-
terns, Rachel and Upasana seek to publicize
both on- and off-campus environmental hap-
penings..
