2 THe DaAvIDSONIAN

Theft, from page 1

of two bicycles. One of them was stolen from
outside of Tomlinson after being left for 30
minutes on a Friday evening.

Melissa Guzman ’11 also reported hav-
ing her bike stolen after her return from
Spring Break. She explained, “I tried to make
as many excuses as possible for the missing
item.-I was positive that my bike must have
been stolen by somebody off-campus. But a
week after my bike was taken, I found it in
a bike rack outside of Tomlinson,” Guzman
said. “I just felt really sad. I trust people to
respect the Davidson Honor Code and it’s
frustrating when they do not. One of the rea-
sons I came to Davidson was to be on a cam-
pus where I ‘could supposedly leave things
unattended and trust that they would be there
when I came back.”

Other occurrences of theft on campus
have included computers taken from the Stu-
dent Laundry, and the Black Student Coali-
tion reported the theft of a television from
their house. “It was definitely an unfortunate
event that should force Davidson students to
be more aware about taking the proper safety
precautions on campus,” Ebony Harley ’09,
then-president of the BSC , said.

Officer Hersey advised that students
should pay careful attention to basic safety
principles, considering recent events on
campus. Checking never to leave keys in
your car, leave your car unlocked or leave
valuables exposed are important precautions.
There have been a few instances in which
__keys have been found on an individual’s
tire, which Officer Hersey advised is a bad
idea, since students can never be certain who
might be on campus.

fa.

03/02/2009 09:00

03/03/2009 11:10

Hospital in Mooresville.

03/07/2009 18:00

03/08/2009 00:52

coming from the third floor.

03/09/2009 15:10

traveling west on Concord Road.

Company.

ETS PO

Other
Captain received a call from the Supervisor of Grounds at the Physical Plant advising
him that a tree had fallen on some cars behind the Eco House. The supervisor stated
that he had received a call advising that a tree had fallen on several vehicles in the
parking area behind the EcoHouse. A large portion of a tree beside the garage had
broken off due to heavy snow had fallen across the top of a1997 Buick, causing
moderate damage to the top and back of the vehicle. The smaller limbs had also fallen
onto two other cars parked in the area. The reporting officer photographed the scene.

Other
Captain was dispatched by communications to assist fire/medic at the Physical Plant
where a female had fallen. The reporting officer responded and arrived with Davidson
Fire Dept. and found the woman lying on the ground. She advised the officer that she

was moving some barrels to the storage building and slipped on ice, which caused her

to fall on her back. Medic 38 arrived and transported her to Lake Norman Regional

Suspicious Vehicle
Officer, while on routine patrol, observed a suspicious vehicle located in the parking
lot near Cunningham Fine Arts, 310 N Main St. The vehicle was a white 1997 Dodge

Caravan. The vehicle had no back window glass; the glass was replaced with silver
colored duck tape. Reporting officer searched the area but was

unable to locate the driver. The driver was likely riding a bicycle on campus.
Reporting officer photographed the suspicious vehicle.

Fire
Officer advised dispatch of a fire alarm activation at Belk Dormitory, 107
Dormitory Dr. Reporting officer met with Davidson Fire who advised the alarm was

Davidson fire advised that someone had discharged a fire extinguisher on the third
floor hallway, which had activated the alarms. Reporting officer spoke with residents
gathered outside from the third floor, they advised they were unaware of any actual
fires and that they had not used the fire extinguishers. Reporting officer observed

the entire third floor to be covered in dry chemical dust from the fire extinguisher. A
Mecklenburg County Fire Marshall stated it was OK for students to stay on the third
floor, but he advised that some students might experience dry throats from the dust.

Vehicle Fire

Officer observed the Davidson Fire Department van traveling across
campus, but the reporting officer had not be dispatched to the call. The officer talked
with dispatch and was informed that the Davidson Fire Department was responding
to a vehicle fire on Concord Rd and must have been cutting through the campus.
Dispatch contacted the officer at 15:17 hrs, stating that the vehicle fire was at the
intersection of Concord Road and Baker Drive. The vehicle caught on fire while

The vehicle was a commercial truck registered to Webb Irrigation & Landscape

News

el

Officer Hersey also reminds students not
to leave personal belongings such as elec-
tronics unattended, especially because such
items are easy to resell. Officer Hersey also
stated that students should keep a record
of any identification numbers from their
device(s) to make them easier to trace if they
should be stolen. This advice comes in light
of recent instances of laptop theft in the E. H.
Little Library.

“I trust people to respect the
Davidson Honor Code and it’s
frustrating when they do not.”

-Melissa Guzman ° 11

Jill Gremmels, Director of the Davidson
College Library, stated, “It makes sense for
people to be careful and keep [their] valu-
ables with them.” Gremmels also said that
signs have been placed around the library to
remind students not to leave their valuables
unattended. Davidson is “not immune to the
world...be careful,” she said.

Officer Herséy also wanted to remind
students not to prop doors open or hold them
someone you do not know, to report any
suspicious activity and not to leave rooms
unlocked. He also reminds houses on Pat-
terson Court to remember to lock windows
and doors after parties. Brown said that she
hopes to remind students that leaving your
car locked in the school parking lot next to
100 other cars is not always a guarantee; she
thought her car was safe. If anyone has any
information regarding a Tan/Beige Honda
EX, please report it to Campus Police.

TIER

EcoHouse

Physical Plant

Cunningham

Belk

Concord Rd.

Students are hypnotized by Michael Anthony Saturday night in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 25, 2009

héto by Bill Giduz

Students ‘Sleep Out’ for homeless

Joun Evans
Staff Writer

Davidson hosted the second annual Soli-
darity Sleep Out Monday night. Students
gathered on Belk Lawn to show solidarity
with homeless individuals from the Urban
Ministry Center, a non-profit inter-faith orga-
nization based in Charlotte. Founded in 1995,
the Center serves as an assistance resource
for homeless “neighbors” and provides Char-
lotte’s homeless and impoverished with ba-
sic services, such as a soup kitchen, showers,
health care and counseling.

The Center also offers outreach programs
managed by trained volunteers and staff.
These programs include a homeless sup-
port and advocacy group called “Homeless
Helping Homeless (HHH),” the “Room in
the Inn” emergency winter shelter program,
substance abuse rehabilitation, housing as-
sistance and Community Works 945, which
includes street soccer, art, writing, music,
yoga and gardening programs.

Associate Executive Director and HHH
advisor Liz Clasen-Kelly worked with Da-
vidson students affiliated with the Center to
organize the Sleep Out. She described the
event as a “retreat, not roughing it” outdoors
on Davidson’s campus. “It’s the community
that makes it a retreat,” she said, and through-
out the evening students and the homeless
alike gathered to talk about homelessness
and to set straight the myths that surround it.
“This is not mimicking homelessness,” Clas-
en-Kelly said. “This is solidarity.”

The Sleep Out began at 9:30 Monday
night and ended after breakfast at 7:00 the
following morning. Blankets and sleeping
bags covered Belk Lawn, and snacks were
provided for the students and the twenty
homeless neighbors. The evening began with
introductions. Everyone sat in a circle near
the steps leading up to Belk Dormitory, told
their names to the group and shared their
reasons for attending the Sleep Out. A man
named John explained, “I’m here for a posi-
tive attitude, and to give y’all a taste of what
homelessness is all about.”

Many of the homeless there had relatives
or close friends connected with Davidson,
and others were simply trying to have a fun
time. “I’m here for friendship,” said a man
named Wendell. “I’ve been alone all my life.
I think this is God’s doing. I have a fascina-
tion with friendships now.”

Afterward, everyone separated into
smaller groups and sat in locations around
the lawn. Some talked and laughed, others
played music and a few went to sleep.

One man named David Williams was a
veteran who has suffered from Post-Traumat-
ic Stress Disorder (PTSD)since being honor--
ably discharged from the army nearly thirty
years ago. To help ease the constant pain
from PTSD, Williams turned to drugs and al-
cohol. “They say it was part of my problem,”
he explained, “but it was part of my solution.
I was to the point where I would rather feel
nothing than what I was feeling.”

Williams has been homeless for 15 out of
the last 17 years, and has been to numerous
drug treatment facilities and mental institu-
tions. The Department of Veterans’ Affairs
still refuses to recognize Williams as a dis-
abled veteran, which prevents him from re-
ceiving any disability compensation.

Now, Williams suffers from depression
stemming from his PTSD. “The only thing
I know right now,” he said, “is getting from
one moment to the next, one day to the next,
finding the next meal or the next place to use
the bathroom. That’s the struggle I’m going
through, as well as trying to deal with this
disorder.” Williams also said that, from his
experience, one-third to one-half of homeless
people are veterans, and out of that percent-
age, 75 percent of them have “psychological
disorders that aren’t treated.”

Williams recognized that he is not the
only person who suffers from trauma and the
severe daily pains of homelessness. But the
Sleep Out, Clasen-Kelly believes, gave the
homeless there a good, relaxing time. “Peo-
ple who went to Sleep Out last year were en-
ergized to do it again,” she said, although she
regretted having seen some of the same faces
from the year before.
