THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

15

Joun Morcan
Staff Writer

Last week told a tale of two losses for the
women’s team: one heartbreakingly close;
one not so much, The ’Cats handily defeated
both teams, Appalachian State and Western
Carolina, earlier in the season. Still with a
month left to go, the team is refocusing its
energy on rebounding from its current five-
game skid.

Early in December, Davidson drilled App
State in Boone, 95-75. But 2009 brought a
stronger intensity from the Mountaineers,
especially from guard Frances Hernandez.
Of App State’s 77 points, she scored 27. In
response, the Wildcat offense only put 57 on
the board.

The stymied Davidson attack turned the
ball over 25 times against the Mountaineers’
ferocious presses, traps and double teams. The
visitors to Belk Arena scored 31 points off
these forced changes of possessions. While
Thompson unleashed a 30-point onslaught in
the first meeting, she was held scoreless on
only three shots this time around.

From Ashley Lax ’11 and Mercedes Rob-
inson ’?09—Davidson’s most consistent scor-
ers—the team earned double-digit points.
Robinson “also posted 10 rebounds, giving
the pre-season SoCon player of the year an-
other impressive double-double.

Though on the surface the defense ap-
peared unchanged—allowing 75 the first
game and 77 the second—Thompson still
points a finger at slip-ups on D. “We’ve al-
lowed teams to score way more than they
should against us,” she said. “[Defense] is
always what we’ve been known for, so we’re
all really upset about it.”

After only one day’s rest, the ’Cats trav-

to make something magical.

Uere

advancement opportunities.

following days:
¢ Saturday, Jan. 24th, 9am - 4pm

* Saturday, Jan. 31st, 9am - 4pm
www.olivegarden.com/employ

An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/D/V.

A zesty bow! of pasta, a distinctive Chianti, the spirited discussion of
family around a table — our guests don’t have to cross the Atlantic to
experience the magic of Italy. In fact, it’s right here at our brand new
restaurant located in Salisbury. Not only do we demand the best and
freshest products, cooked expertly, but we need talented people like you
to help create an environment where food, family and fun come together

eled to Cullowhee, NC, to face Western
Carolina. With a limited bench and frequent
injuries, the team surely can blame some of
its difficulties on sheer bad luck. But Thomp-
son looks the other way. “We could throw
ourselves a pity party,” she said. “Oh, look
what we’ve had to deal with—losing our
whole coaching staff, losing two scholarship
players, injuries galore. But instead, we just
accept and get better from it.”

After the App State defeat, the team did
show signs of improvement, but they were
not enough to respond to Western Carolina’s
intensity. Davidson rocked the Catamounts
84-66 earlier in the season, but again, the
’Cats took on a revitalized opposition, hungry
to avenge the previous loss. Brooke Johnson,

+
‘«

Servers * Hosts/Hostesses « Bartenders
Dishwashers ¢ Line & Production Cooks
To-Go Specialists * Bussers

And here’s a taste of our exceptional benefits: flexible schedules,
comprehensive training, meal discounts, paid vacation, medical/
dental insurance, 401(k) plan, as well as management career
Please apply in person at 1425 Klumac Road in Salisbury on the

« Wednesday, Jan. 21st - Friday, Jan. 23rd, 9am - 6pm

* Monday, Jan. 26th - Friday, Jan. 30th, 9am - 6pm

Wheryowre here, power omely,

Logan Hartman ’12 battles for a rebound in Saturday’s 77-57 loss to App. St.

the Catamounts’ feature player, dropped 22
points, including four threes.

Davidson stuck in the game throughout,
kept afloat by a bench that outscored Western
Carolina’s 27-23. After an Alex Thompson
layup with 2:55 remaining, the ’Cats nar-
rowed the Catamount lead to 65-64, but two
straight Wildcat turnovers sealed the deal in
the home team’s favor. Johnson hit the last
two free throws to put the nail in the coffin. .

Giving off a more positive light, the loss
witnessed the return of Thompson’s scor-
ing ability, with 12 points against Western
Carolina. Lax tied that total, while Mandy
Halbersleben ’09 added 10. What may have
made the difference in the game was the Cat-
amounts’ pressure on Robinson, who only

: Bo a
Ben Lucas ’11 and the

fildcats remained undefeated in CCSA meets as both the

scored six.

Still looking for that one win to stop the
bleeding, the ’Cats continue their road stint
this week with games against Wofford and
Elon. In the teams’ first meetings, Davidson
won both by double-digit margins. After last
week, the team will not let itself slide into
complacency once again.

“Our recent losing streak definitely is a
good slap in the face,” Thompson said. “It
lets us know we’ve got to keep working if we
want to be the top dog. It’s not just going to
be handed to us.”

With the Wofford game on Saturday, Jan.
31, the Wildcats will take this week to regroup
and recommit themselves to the season’s
overarching goal — to win a championship.
Simultaneously, the team must recognize its
progress this year despite the obstacles.

“On Saturday, our stress level was so
high that we could not compete,” Watts said.
“But by Monday versus [Western Carolina]
we did compete. Our goal this week is to
have fun with our game and understand that
we are the same team who went 7-0 and that
we will be okay.”

Watts also supports taking a step back
and reflecting on what really motivates this
year’s squad.

“When you love what you are doing, you
simply step away for a few days as frustra-
tions sometimes overtake our minds,” she
said. “The love is always there and the desire
to improve is ever present.”

“At the beginning of the season, we all
respected each other and knew we were
good players,” Thompson said. “But I feel
like over the season, we’ve learned how to
complement each other. So it’s moved from
five good individual players on the court to a
team that works well together.”

Cats drop fifth straight, look to get back on track Saturday

men’s and women’s teams defeated conference foe Gardner-Webb on Senior Day.

Swimming sweeps Gardner-Webb

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

On Saturday, Davidson hosted a dual men
and women’s meet against Gardner-Webb for
this season’s “Senior Day.” The Davidson
women’s team had much to prove as the cur-
rent seniors had never before beaten Gard-
ner-Webb. The Davidson men’s team posted
a score of 168-111 to overcome the Bulldogs
while the women’s team captured a 162-126
victory. Two of the Davidson seniors, Alan-
na Ream ’09 and Merritt Peele ’09 had very
strong performances and rose to the occasion
on senior day.

The meet began with both the men’s and
women’s teams showing off their strengths.
Ream won the 200-fly with a time of 2:11.24
and finished third in the 500 with a time of
5:13.24. Madeline Parra ’09 finished third in
the 200-fly with a time of 2:11.90, register-
ing a season best time for Parra. This was a
great improvement after her off-season sur-
gery. Parra also finished fourth in the 100-fly
with a time of 1:01.78. In addition, Courtney
Sanders ’1] finished third in the 50 at 25.02
and second in the 100-free at 54.05. Jessica
Totten ’09 finished fourth in the 50-free with
a time of 26.00.

Also, Jessica Delgehausen ’11 won the

1000-free and 500-free. Anna Stringfield ’11
won the 200-free, and Emily Castle 11 won
the 100-fly. In the diving portion, Stephannie
McKinney won both the one and three meter
events with scores of 208.51 and 203.56. The
Davidson women’s team did a fantastic job.
“This win illustrates the improvement in the
program over the last four years,” Ream said.
“We really came together as a team on Satur-
day and swam for each other.”

The men’s team achieved a similar suc-
cess. Peele 09 won the 1000-free with a
time of 9:51.99, the 500-free at 4:48.47, and
placed third in the 200-free at 1:46.53. Scott
Frantz 09 won the 100-backstroke at 52.40
and registered third in the 100-free 48.74.
Also in the 100-free, Andrew Carlson ’09
scored second providing for a Davidson 1-2-
3 finish in the event. Aside from the senior
wins, Curtis Chaney °12, Patrick Whitman
"11, Geoff Peitz 12, Miller Williams °10,
and Ben Lane °11 all registered individual
wins.

“This meet was a launch pad for every-
one,” Peele said. “For the seniors it was a tre-
mendous farewell, but as a team we know we
have the most important part ahead of us.”

Davidson will host VMI on Wednesday
before heading to Athens, Ga for the CCSA
Championships.
