6 THe DAVIDSONIAN

Cook’s
Corner:
Baked
Apples

Staff Writer

It’s finally fall, and with the cool weather
comes apple season and the comforting
flavors of Thanksgiving. Enjoy both with
these delicious baked apples, served with a
generous scoop of vanilla ice cream.

Ingredients

3 large, firm apples

1/4 cup pecans, chopped
Y%, cup brown sugar

¥, cup raisins

1 tsp cinnamon

1 tbsp butter

1 cup hot water

Directions

Preheat oven to 375. Cut the center out of
the apples and scoop out seeds.

In a separate bowl, combine pecans, sugar,
raisins, and cinnamon. Stuff each apple
with the mixture and top with a bit of
butter. Place stuffed apples in a baking
dish, and pour the hot water around the
apples to cover the bottom of the dish.

Bake until fork tender, about 30 minutes.

Serve warm with vanilla ice cream.

for the piano and ed for orchestra b

Organization, that provides post-rehabilitative
care for stroke. sUrviVors.” “The concert: takes
place tomorrow. night: at 7s 30} in Duke Family

Dance, a tarantella that was originally swt

roke’ Foundation,” a non-profit

Arts & LIVING
Make this year a green Thanksgiving

ABBEY THIBEAULT
Staff Writer

The date of the first Thanksgiving
is a mystery. Most historians agree the
pilgrims of Plymouth, MA celebrated the
first Thanksgiving in 1621. More than
two hundred years later, Abraham Lincoln
declared the last Thursday in November a
national day of thanksgiving.

Finally, in 1941, Congress declared
Thanksgiving a national holiday. That year,
American families, enjoying their first
“official” Thanksgiving meal, feasted on
far different fare than their ancestors had
in Plymouth. “Progress” brought canned
cranberry sauce and gherkins. The turkey, its

Wonderbread and slices of celery.

Canned vegetables and instant mashed
potatoes, still popular today, defile
Thanksgiving. To counter this trend, zealous
chefs and conservationists suggest trying
a sustainable Thanksgiving. A delicious,
sustainable Thanksgiving is beneficial
to the earth and the local economy.
More importantly, though, a sustainable
Thanksgiving is an authentic Thanksgiving.

GARRETT SAUEY
Staff Writer

“Food, Inc.,” a 2008 documentary by
Emmy Award winner Robert Kenner, lays
out the imagery and information of the
food (packing) industry right before our
hungry eyes. As the age of “going green”
continues to blossom, Kenner figures that
we, the American public, deserve to know
from where our food comes. His reasoning
and call to action are certainly admirable,
but his passion for the end product of the
film occasionally impedes his true message.

The first half of “Food Inc.” is mostly
objective, typing out statistics and facts to get
the point across. A narrator explains that as
chickens are pumped with chemicals in order
to speed up their growth and impending death,
their existence on Earth rapidly becomes
one of pain and uncertainty. The chickens’
bodies become the size of small pizzas, and
all they can do is waste away their contained
existence by sitting in their coops.

With the chickens, Kenner relies heavily
on film-footage to emphasize his point. The
footage of factory workers chucking chickens
down a transport tube to be manhandled by
another factory worker who brands them
carelessly with a stamp is enough to make
anyone cringe.

The documentary continues to focus
on chickens at another farm. In even more
gruesome fashion, the birds are pulled
abruptly from their cages by a desensitized
factory worker and stuffed down a cylindrical
tube where their throats are slit. The footage

origin unknown, was stuffed with cubes of

The centerpiece of the holiday meal is the
turkey. Locally raised, organic, free-range
turkeys are ideal. You can find just such a
bird at the Farmer’s Market, Whole Foods,
or Trader Joe’s. Go to www.localharvest.
org to find a turkey farm near you! A local
turkey is typically raised organically, without
hormones and antibiotics, fed organic feed
and allowed to roam, so it is not a far cry
from the fresh, wild turkey caught and killed
for the first Thanksgiving! Vegetarians
may consider another sustainable option: a
“Tofurkey,” which is made with tofu.

Local produce abounds at farmer’s
markets and at some grocery stores, like
Harris Teeter and Whole Foods. These fruits
and vegetables are fresher and more nutritious
than those that have travelled long distances.

Often, the fruits and vegetables in grocery
stores are harvested before they are ripe, and
gain color and soften during the shipping
process. The longer fruit remains “on the
vine” the more nutritious it becomes. Plus,
once food is harvested, its nutritional value
decreases over time. The fruits and vegetables
you find at Food Lion may be months old,
and virtually devoid of nutritional value.

A truly — sustainable Thanksgiving
requires more than simply gorging on local

from this farm also features images that
further emphasize the horrible treatment
of domesticated animals: the viewer sees
footage of cows stuck and disgustingly
camouflaged in their own manure.

The public’s interest, however, can only
be partially maintained by animals. So,
the director subtly shifts focus to a more
emotional, human story that follows a
mother who has recently lost her toddler as
she travels to Capitol Hill. Her son died 12
days after eating an E. coli-contaminated
hamburger. Because of the tragedy of such
an event, the mother travels to DC to push for
her representatives to pass Kevin’s Law.

An authentic, vintage home video of a
little boy plays as the mother emotionally
describes her son’s last days and the lack of
effort the meat company took in recalling the
infected meat.

Later, another family describes its daily
visits to McDonald’s. They live off of the
fatty, greasy foods from the “Dollar Menu,”
because they cannot afford vegetables.
Tragically, fresh foods are more expensive
than the chemically treated hamburger meat.
Is it a coincidence that this family is entirely
Hispanic and lower-middle class? No—
Kenner consciously chose this family because
he knows that a large part of his audience are
recent Hispanic immigrants who desire to
break apart from the monopolizing fast-food
industry.

Kenner beautifully and_ intelligently
weaves emotion and logic and manages
to connect various Americans’ lives into
one cohesive entity until the very end of
the film. In all his heated passion, Kenner

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

green beans and over-sugared baked apples.
Recycle and compost any waste. If you do
this regularly, it is possible to produce only
5 Ibs of trash per year. Indoor composting
trashcans are available for apartments and
dorm rooms at www.naturemill.com. Also,
avoid plastic dishes and napkins. China and
cloth napkins add class and an eco-friendly
vibe to celebrations.

Finally, serve organic beverages. Local
and organic beer and wine are available at
most grocery stores. Also, avoid bottled
water. Interestingly, tap water is regulated
by the Environmental Protection Agency,
whereas bottled water is not because it is
transported within states. Drinking tap water
reduces your impact on the environment
significantly by eliminating plastic bottles as
waste and the pollution created through their
transportation.

A sustainable Thanksgiving requires
no more work or cash than a typical
Thanksgiving, but the impact of having a
sustainable Turkey Day is enormous. You'll
reduce carbon emissions while supporting
local farmers. And, really, I can’t think of a
better way to say, “Thanks.”

‘Food, Inc.’ investigates meat industry

wants to blame someone for the meat
industry’s atrocities. At one point, he
plasters conservative Supreme Court Justice
Clarence Thomas’ picture and declares him
a Monsanto lawyer—the chemical giant that
has an unrelenting hold on the impoverished
corn farmers of America.

Kenner seems to believe that because
Thomas was a Monsanto attorney and
wrote the majority decision on an important
environmental court case, that he must be part
of the problem. The fact that Thomas used
to work for Monsanto does not mean that
he has major influence over other Justices’
decisions.

Throughout the enitre documentary,
Kenner never once attempts to speak with or
listen to the chemical industry’s executives.
He is too far into the rebellion he wants to
create to try to understand the industry’s point
of view, which ultimately portrays him as an
extreme environmentalist with a politicized
agenda.

The documentary ends with commands
to the audience. Kenner’s final inspiration,
in the form of a question, asks, “Hungry
for Change?” Although seemingly Obama-
inspired, the quote does reinforce the call to
action and Kenner’s message does advocate
the downfall of the food industry monopoly.

“Food, Inc.” is truly a fine blend of
information and emotion. It maintains a clear
focus and remains steadfast in its approach.
Kenner, however, seems caught up in the
whirlwind of change that Obama spun,
which ultimately hurts his ethos. We want
change for the consumer’s sake, not change
for a political agenda.

Wed. 11/18 Thur. 11/19 Fri. 11/20 Sat. 11/21 Sun. 11/22 Mon. 11/23 Tue. 11/24
Ethics and War in the
Islamic Tradition, 2nd Annual Pha-
with Dr. Sohail raoh’s Ball, ss
South Africa: From Hashmi, Lilly Family Gallery, Thanksgiving Break
: . Women’s Basketball ' : begins after class!!!!
Apartheid to 900 Room, Chambers, Davidson’s Last nt Mozart's Requiem,
Democracy, 12:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. Comic Standing, v.s. William and Duke Family Perfor-
with Antoinette Sithole, 900 Room, Mary, mance Hall,
Lilly Family A Night of Indian 10:00 p.m. Williamsburg, VA 7:30 p.m.
Gallery, Chambers, Cuisine, 2:00 p.m. Have a great
7:00 p.m. Thanksgiving with Madhur Jaffrey, .
Lunch, Vail Commons, Thanksgiving!i!!
Vail Commons, §:00-7:00 p.m.
11:00 a.m.-1:45 p.m.
