4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

_—

SGA welcomes new senators

CRISTINA BUSTILL
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday,
the Student Government Association swore
in the recently elected Freshmen Senators.
The short ceremony began with a few words
by SGA President Meikaela Zwieryznski
10 where she encouraged the new members
to participate as actively as possible and to
commit fully to their new position.

Following this, the new senators took an
oath where they promised to abide by the
SGA bylaws and to carry out their position to
the best of their abilities. The freshmen class
President is Naa Amerley Amarteifio °13,
and the senators are John David Merill ’13,
Paul DiFiore 13, Alex Hauer ’13, Supriya
Wadhwa ’13 and John David Ike *13.

After this short ceremony, the SGA got
down to business and some of the Commit-
tee heads made a short presentation where
they explained what their committee does
and what the main goals for this semester
are. Jenner Gibson ’11 began with a presen-
tation of the Academic Policy Committee;
in the past, this committee has done things
such as the optional cover letter for the tran-
scripts.

This year, their main concern is trying
to achieve a balance between the classes of-
fered and demand for the classes. They are
concerned that some classes are in very high
demand and not enough sections are offered
for the amount of students that need to take
them, while other classes are offered and a

Following Gibson’s presentation, Elliot
Campbell ’11 introduced the Admissions and
Financial Aid Committee. This agmmittee
was designed as a liaison between the Ad-
missions and Financial Aid Office and SGA.
At this time, the committee is trying to find
an objective for the semester since in the past
they have found that it is very hard for cur-
rent students to affect the admissions process.
The committee members are welcoming any
suggestions for their committee.

This concluded the committee presenta-
tions and Zwieryznski took the floor, with
her intervention on behalf of the Information
Technology Services (ITS) office. ITS has
expressed a strong interest in being in con-
stant communication with the SGA, and has
suggested that a member of SGA becomes a
student liaison between SGA and ITS. What
ITS wishes to achieve with this is the suc-
cessful integration of technology into the life
of Davidson students and to hear the main
concerns of the student body concerning
technology.

After addressing this issue, Zwieryzn-
ski addressed the issue of the SGA Website.
There have been ongoing discussions and the
idea of creating a website where all Davidson
students can participate actively. They wish
to include the possibility of asking questions,
giving feedback and participating in discus-
sion boards on this site.

There have been some delays in getting
the webpage running because it requires a
complex set-up. So far, SGA has been unable
to find someone that has the time and skills

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Thatcher Professor of Philosophy Lance Stell, who is also the director of the
Davidson’s Medical Humanities Program, spoke last Thursday on “Physicians’
Integrity and Ties to Industry” in the 900 Room.

Cockman agreed.
“We're really trying to do more events

WALT, from page 1

very small number of students are actually
interested or need to take the class.

to create this webpage. SGA anticipates the
project to be completed in the near future.

OTTER

09/15/09 02:20 Noise Disturbance

Officers received a call from anonymous person advising of a loud party in Tomlinson.
The officer observed six or seven students in the room. In the middle of the room was
an apparent drinking game. On the floor next to the wall was a fifth of Canadian Lake
whisky. The residents of the room took full responsibility for the party, and the liquor.
The officer requested the liquor to be poured out. The subjects were very cooperative
during the call.

09/16/2009 13:04 Other

Officers met with Davidson College employee. The officer spoke with the subject
about several recent emails that he had been receiving, along with a few visits, from

a female subject. The subject stated that he was a little concerned about the recent
contact that the subject had been initiating with him and felt it was necessary to finally
contact campus police via email. The investigating officer advised the subject to start
formal documentation of the emails and visits from the female subject. The officer
advised to contact/update campus police of any further actions that may be taken by
this subject.

09/16/09 22:35 Snake

Officers were contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a snake in Duke
Dormitory, 113 Dormitory Dr. Upon arrival, reporting officer observed a 3-foot black
snake in the main lobby near the elevator. Reporting officer placed the snake in a
plastic bag, transported the snake to a wooded area and released the snake.

09/17/09 01:15 Suspicious Activity

Officers while on routine patrol observed three people behind Turner House, 119
Patterson Ct. Cir. Reporting officer asked the three students why they were behind
Tumer House. Subjects claimed they were just talking and trying to stay out of the
rain. Reporting officer continued a conversation for approximately ten minutes,
talking about several recent campus topics. During the conversation, reporting officer
noticed that one student never took his right hand out of his pocket, even while using
his cell phone. Reporting officer also noticed several other nonverbal cues that led
him to believe that the student might be hiding something. Reporting officer separated
the student from the other two students and questioned him. Reporting officer asked
the student what he was hiding from the officer, and he stated nothing. Reporting
officer asked the student for consent to search his person, agreed. While conducting a
search, reporting officer found a glass pipe in the right pocket. Reporting officer called
for assist in the investigation. Reporting officer asked if the other two students had
anything illegal on them, and he stated that one of the other students had some drugs.
Reporting officer asked for the substance, and he removed a long white sock from a
pocket. Inside the sock was a zip lock bag containing a small amount of drugs. The
seized items were photographed and placed into evidence.

listentowalt.com, broadcasts all of WALT’s
shows live and enables friends and parents of
students to access the Davidson music scene.
To listen to the show currently playing, one
simply has to press the “Listen Now” button.
Shows broadcast at different hours every day,
so there is always something to rock out to.

If you're not a very attentive individual,
you may not have noticed WALT’s station
holed away in the top floor of the Union.
However, the executive board is making
great efforts to further Davidson community
involvement.

For example, WALT offers a mobile DJ
service for the Davidson College and town
communities. They can be hired to DJ events,
and provide the music and equipment for
only $65 an hour (significantly less than oth-
er DJs). If you’re interested, WALT will be
DJing “After Midnight” this coming week-
end in the Union — stop by to check it out.

Parker is in charge of booking shows for
Summit, and said that she hopes that there
will be “a few WALT sponsored music nights
this semester and next where we can show-
case some crazy talented students.”

“{’m really hoping that this year WALT
can bring the music community at David-
son together,” Parker continued. “We’ve got
some incredible resources, contacts and ca-
pabilities, and I’m looking forward to really
utilizing those.”

Teet (dar Personal

im’s career-long track record of achieving
successful results for his clients has eamed
hits recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
te the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.
Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Simo Fuller is
a Widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent ox crteaaal
conduct of others.
fim and his wile Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A an
member of the Lions Clab, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PANNING

Jim Fuller and “Sandy? Carnegie

Aes
LAW FIRM

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 9 (704) 892-1699 » www.meintoshlawfirm.com

with the campus community this year,” he
said.

Over the years, WALT has formed im-
portant relationships with promotional com-
panies for record labels. Currently, WALT
music directors James Davis ’12 and Alexis
Valauri-Orton ’12, are the liasons between
Davidson and these companies. So here’s an-
other reason to listen to WALT: these compa-
nies give WALT access to CDs weeks before
they are released to the public. The various
shows on WALT play the brand-new songs,
record the responses from students and pro-
vide feedback for the promotion companies.

The participants in WALT are excited for
anew year and new listeners.

“ really hope people will listen to all the
shows on WALT because our DJs put a lot
of time into crafting the perfect playlist for
your listening pleasure,” WALT DJ Ali Sut-
ton ’10 said.

So, if you find yourself bored with your
iTunes selection and are in the mood for
something different, tune in any day of the
week to www.listentowalt.com. If you hear
something you like or just really want to talk
to the DJs, call the station phone at 704-894-
2471.

“WALT serves as a catalyst for the ex-
pansion of music diversity at Davidson Col-
lege,” Cockman said. “And we’ll melt your
face off,” Cangemi added.

Injury Attorneys

rosser D, “Sandy” Carnegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
4 above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
3 law including, contract preparation and review, residentist
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is ticensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina snd Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community,
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sendy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as 2
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is: member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AR. & A.M. and in bas
coached youth football, baskethall and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelins and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL TAICRY
HEAL ESTATE » WELLS 8 TRUSTS
