4 Tue DAvIDSONIAN

By AuIssa IREI
Staff Writer

Jon Sawyer, founding director of the
three-year-old Pulitzer Center for Crisis Re-
porting, opened his lecture in Tyler-Tallman
Hall Monday night by solemnly intoning, in
a dirge-like cadence, the series of unfortu-
nate events that have befallen the journalism
industry in the last several years— since, in
Sawyer’s words, “the bottom dropped out”
of the news business.

The Chicago Tribune is filing for bank-
ruptcy and contemplating closing its Wash-
ington and foreign bureaus. National Public
Radio is letting seven percent of its staff go.
The Miami Herald is for sale, but no one
wants to buy it- at least not for the right rea-
sons. (Apparently the most attractive part
of the Herald package is not its tradition of
journalistic excellence, but rather the ocean
view land on which it sits.) Everyone is
slashing budgets, laying off staff and trying
to do more with less. The news for the news
industry is bad, and getting worse.

“So that’s the really depressing part of
my message tonight,” Sawyer said with
mock brightness. The audience laughed,
sounding relieved. After all, no one was
dressed for a funeral.

Certainly there was plenty in Sawyer’s
presentation, and in his subsequent inter-
view with The Davidsonian, to roundly
discourage journalists and those who value
good journalism. In just one example, the
Anna Nicole Smith story received more
coverage on American television cable and
network news last year than did any foreign
country other than Iraq (according to the
Pew Research Foundation).

Ultimately though, Sawyer’s message
was a sincerely hopeful one, more prophetic
than funereal.

“I’m not naive about the dark news in
journalism,” Sawyer said. “The evidence is

News , |
Series of unfortunate events: a journalistic reality

all around us and scarcely needs elaboration.
Assuredly these are not easy years for jour-
nalists.”

But Sawyer said he thinks we will “look
back on these as the best of times, when we
worked together to reinvigorate this craft that
is so important to us all.”

A center facilitating reports on underre-
ported global crises, the non-profit Pulitzer
Center for Crisis Reporting is also a center
fighting to address the crisis facing American
news. Sawyer articulated the goal of the cen-
ter concisely and often, “to raise the quantity
and coverage of global issues in American
mass media.”

The vision sounds straightforward, but
the means by which Sawyer and his col-
leagues are pursuing this end are potentially
revolutionary. While newspapers and other
outlets have been cutting their foreign re-
porting budgets at alarming rates, claiming
that the costs are simply prohibitive, Sawyer
argues that if done efficiently reporting from
abroad does not have to break the bank. The
Center itself runs on a relatively tiny budget
($330,000 in its first year, $540,000 in 2006,
and $750,000 last year), still managing to
create 30 to 40 extensive, high quality, inno-
vative multimedia stories annually.

“That says something about the naysay-
ers in my business who say that we simply
can’t afford to do this sort of coverage,”
Sawyer said.

It might cost a newspaper $250,000 to
$300,000 a year to operate one foreign bu-
reau, as estimated by Sawyer. In contrast, he
said, the Pulitzer Center never spends more
than $20,000 on a project, with an average
cost of about $10,000. Successful global
coverage takes “passion and will, and a will-
ingness to reach out and collaborate,” said
Sawyer, not necessarily a huge bottom line.

Projects at the Pulitzer Center are far-
reaching, running on multiple innovative
platforms, in print, film, radio and online

Chem renovation delayed

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Throughout the past decade, Davidson’s
campus has undergone many improvements.
The Alvarez Student Union was moved from
what is now the Sloan Music Building to its
current location, Chambers Building was ex-
panded, and the Physics, Biology and Psy-
chology Departments all received additional
space. Most recently, Richardson Dormitory
was remodeled, and Cunningham Theater
was renovated.

One building, however, that has not
been improved recently is Martin Chemistry
building. Unfortunately, current economic
conditions are forcing a delay in renovating
Martin.

Two years ago, Davidson met with archi-
tects to discuss the possibility of expanding
and renovating Martin to meet the Chemistry
Department’s needs. Martin suffers from a
number of deficiencies. Firstly, the Heat-
ing, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system
(HVAC) was assembled piecemeal, with sep-
arate systems installed whenever the build-
ing was renovated in the past.

According to Dr. Erland Stevens, Chair
of the Chemistry Department, “Martin is a
maintenance nightmare.” The systems takes
up more space than needed, and with mul-
tiple systems, the chance of any one breaking
down is more likely. Additionally, Dr. Ste-
vens said, proper ventilation is particularly
important in Martin because it is necessary
for the safety of chemistry experiments.

Another problem that Martin currently
suffers from is a lack of laboratory space. Dr.
Stevens states that Martin currently does not

have sufficient laboratory space for the entire -

faculty to conduct the research that is expect-
ed of them. The Chemistry Department has
improvised by moving equipment and other
objects around, but there is still not enough
lab space. Unfortunately for the Chemistry
Department, it appears that the renovation
and expansion of Martin Chemistry Building
will be put on hold because of difficult eco-
nomic conditions.

When Martin Chemistry Building is ren-
ovated and expanded in the future, a num-
ber of challenges will have to be overcome.
Because the Chemistry Department needs
laboratory space in order to continue con-
ducting its courses, the existing part of Mar-
tin must be functional while the expansion is
occurring. Unlike classrooms, which could
be moved to Chambers or another building,
laboratories have specialized equipment and
features that cannot be recreated anywhere
else on campus.

According to Dr. Stevens, the need for
sufficient lab space could be met through
building all new lab space in the expansion
of Martin. The renovation of the existing
structure of Martin could not begin until the
expansion was complete. Therefore, when
the expanded part of Martin is complete, labs
could be held in that part while the original
part of Martin is being renovated.

This renovation, Dr. Stevens explained,
would be comprehensive. It would take
Martin down to its floors and redo it entirely,
creating a new HVAC system.

Dr. Stevens and the rest of the Chemis-
try Department eagerly await the time when
financial conditions will allow Davidson to
renovate Martin Chemistry Building. Dr.
Stevens said, “It’s a hassle in the short term,
but in the long term, it’s fantastic.”

a

mediums. A series on HIV/AIDs in Jamai-
ca even used the talents of Kwame Dawes,
poet-in-residence at the University of South
Carolina.

Past projects have appeared in some ca-
pacity in The Washington Post, The New
York Times, The Newshour with Jim Lehrer,
public radio in Boston, National Public Ra-
dio, YouTube.com, The Virginia Quarterly
Review, C-SPAN, interactive web portals
and lecture venues across the country. Re-
markably, this list is far from exhaustive.

The Pulitzer Center also has as exten-
sive educational outreach program that is
growing rapidly, bringing journalists and
their work into the learning environments of
middle schools, high schools, colleges and
universities nationwide. In one instance, a
group of American school kids even had an
online conversation about water availability
with a class from Nairobi’s worst slum. That

their approaches t to hiting, ‘Adams say. Som
‘companies are turning their summer intern

ship programs into their full-time job search »

Peace Corps.

Life is calling.
How far will you go?

800.424.8580
www.peacecorps.gov

S that networking bécomes: an incredibly’ valu-

from corporate growth.

CORRECTIONS

Basketball Streak Misstated

The Jan. 28 article “Cats continue home, SoCon domi-
nance” incorrectly stated that the men’s basketball team
held the nation’s longest active home win-streak. In fact,
Davidson currently holds the third-longest active streak at
27 games, after Kansas (36) and Utah State (29).

The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any
errors in reporting through printed corrections.
Please contact us at
davidsonian@davidson.edu if you
identify any such errors.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

interactive experience was part of the “Water
Wars” series, about the politics of water or
the lack thereof in Africa.

Ultimately, Sawyer says the Center seeks
to achieve “better coverage of [global] is-
sues, [and] to engage the broad public in
these issues. The journalism is just a means
to that end.”

Sawyer became the founding director
of the Pulitzer Center in 2006, after a dis-
tinguished 31-year career in print journal-
ism, spent entirely with the St. Louis Post-
Dispatch. “It took me a long time to get my
second job,” Sawyer joked.

While at the Post-Dispatch, Sawyer re-
ported from five-dozen countries. In the last
ten years he has made extensive special re-
ports from the Middle East and Africa. He is
the recipient of a myriad of prestigious jour-
nalism awards, for foreign and investigative
reporting.

ble-part of the job search process, accord-,
ing to the Parents Newsletter. ‘The Newslet-,

2, When asked if he saw any end in the
foreseeable future fo: this market downturn,
Adams was unsure:
#9 He said that-the general lack ‘of credit:
has prevented companies from growing, but
that unfortunately for job seekers jobs come.

