THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

—-

WEDNESDAY, Aprix 1, 2009 3

. ; —_ —_

Theatre in literature studies | GSA kicks off “Gaypril”
to raise awareness

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

This Wednesday, English Professor Ann
Fox will present the department’s spring col-
loquium on “Edward Albee’s Eugenic The-
atrics.” Fox, who curated this spring’s ReF-
ormations exhibit, focuses much of her work
on 20" century theatre and disability studies.
Her presentation will highlight recent devel-
opments in her research in both fields.

A student and professor of feminist lit-
erature, Fox is also the coordinator of Da-
vidson’s Gender Studies concentration. The
colloquium will take place Wednesday, Apr.
1 at 6:00 p.m. at the Carolina Inn.

Fox’s presentation is not the only campus
event this week to highlight the important
role of theatre in literature studies, however.
David Palko ’09 is one of the ten English
majors this year pursuing honors, and as his
thesis project he chose to write an original
one-act play, “Playing Hide and Seek.”

Palko has been conducting independent
research with Dr. Fox and Davidson’s Mc-
Gee Professor of Writing, Rona Munro, a
playwright who first visited Davidson with
the RSC and presented her work-in-progress,
“Litte Eagles,” over the course of two semes-
ters in preparation for next week’s perfor-
mance.

He explained that “Playing Hide and

Seek” is the first honors project in over ten
years to take the form of a theatrical perfor-
mance, and possibly the first English honors
project ever to do so.

Palko, who will spend the next week
rehearsing with three student actors and an
ensemble of six student musicians, will also
direct the play and has composed an original
score for the piece. The play, an interdisci-
plinary collaboration, features John Rogers
“11, Kelly Lence ‘11, and Patrick Scully ‘12.
The performance, which will be Monday,
Apr. 6 at 7:30 p.m. in Tyler Tallman Hall, is
free.

Dr. Fox will deliver this spring’s English
Department Colloquium, sharing her
recent research on “Edward Albee’s
Eugenic Theatrics.”

Independent SGA senators

Stephen Pierce *10

Danny Langley °10

Emily Glaser °12-

Ariel Adamson ’12

ROE

An intensive. one-year Master's prograrn, designed to accommodate students with litte
Or No previous experience or coursework in Computer Science, the CSPP provides an

un close, in-depth porspective of the current art and practice of computing. With a focus.
on computer science fundamentals and the requirements of busineas today, the GSPP
provides the instruotion and training essential to harnessing new technotogies and putting

them to use In real-world environments.

Computer Science
Professional Program

masters.cs.uchicago.edu

6 y

This issue of The Davidsonian suffered
from several problems in the
department of factual verification,

more specifically that the entire first
page is a total falsehood.
Happy April, Fools.

KeELLy BEGGS
Staff Writer

This April will not only bring spring
showers to Davidson, but also a flood of
events emphasizing lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender awareness as the Gay-Straight
Alliance turns April into “Gaypril.”

GSA President KC Currie said that Gay-
pril “serves the purpose of having a time
that is devoted to promoting GSA activities.
Just like there are other awareness weeks
and months, having Gaypril is GSA’s way
of promoting awareness for the lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender (LGBT) issues that
are on this campus.”

Currie imported the term “Gaypril” from
Middlebury College, but Davidson will have
its own unique line-up of events. Gaypril
started off on a celebratory note with its
“Kappa Sigmos” party at Kappa Sigma last
Wednesday, and the GSA will continue its
promotional efforts this week with an aware-

hess table at Thursday’s Health Fair and Fri-

day’s Ice Cream and Tie Dye Social.

“Awareness and
homophobia are inversely
linked. Fear is the cause of
many kinds of prejudice, so

by creating more awareness
on campus we can decrease
homophobia.”

-GSA Member Robert
Morris °09

Throughout the month, the GSA will sell
t-shirts that state, “Gay? Fine by me,” and ac-
cept Questions for Queers. Students, staff and
faculty can submit their questions for LGBT
persons in Questions for Queers boxes in the
Union, the Library and Chambers.

“We hope that students will feel comfort-
able enough to ask questions in this anony-
mous format, and that we can provide an-
swers,” Currie said. Questions for Queers
aims to create an open dialogue about LGBT
issues, bettering the campus’s understanding
of the LGBT community.

In addition to improving campus-wide
communication, the GSA will also use film
to broaden students’ perspectives on LGBT
concerns and culture, showing “In Sickness
and in Health,” a documentary about a cou-
ple struggling to legalize same-sex marriage,

and “Priscilla, Queen of the Desert,” an Aus-
tralian camp classic.

In addition to movies, ice cream and tie
dye, board games will be another awareness-
increasing device uséd during Gaypril when
the GSA teams up with Alpha Phi Alpha
on April 22 to host Drag Bingo in the 900
Room.

Tickets will cost $1 (open bar included),
and funds will be donated to Time Out Youth,
a local organization which provides “support,
education and advocacy for lesbian, gay, bi-
sexual, transgender and questioning (LG-
BTQ) youth between the ages of 13 through
23.”

Gaypril will not be all fun and games,
however. April 17 will mark the National
Day of Silence. On this day, students across
the country take a vow of silence in order to
bring attention to the verbal harassment en-
dured by LGBT students. The Day of Silence
began at the University of Virginia in 1996,
and has since expanded to include over 8,000
K-12 schools, colleges and universities.

The website for the National Day of Si-
lence states that the goal of the day is “to
make schools safer for all students, regard-
less of sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity/expression.”

The National Day of Silence is sponsored
by the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education
Network (GLSEN), whose website says that
nine out of ten LGBT students report verbal,
sexual or physical harassment at school.

By embarking on a month-long aware-
hess-raising campaign, the GSA will attempt .
to create an accepting, safe and comfortable
community for students of all sexual orienta-
tions.

“Awareness and homophobia are inverse-
ly linked,” GSA Member Robert Morris *09
said. “Fear is the cause of many kinds of
prejudice, so by creating more awareness on
campus we can decrease homophobia.”

Gaypril will seek to increase awareness
and decrease homophobia with both enter-
tainment and education. “I hope that Gaypril
provides a mix of social activities and infor-
mative events,” Currie said.

By hosting a broad assortment of events
in collaboration with a diverse mix of orga-
nizations, the GSA hopes to reach its widest
audience possible, aiming to make Davidson
an all-inclusive and supportive environment
where students of all sexual identities can
peacefully coexist.

Gaypril will culminate with a Drag Ball
at Rusk on May 1, but the GSA’s hope is that
the awareness and understanding created by
this month’s events will be timeless, lasting
far past the month’s end.

