THE DAVIDSONIAN

MoniouE McINnTOsH
Staff Writer

Intimidated by Folk Rock?

Does it reminds you of your Southern
inadequacies? Black Mountain native, Kellin
Watson, “took to the road” for her third and
latest folk rock album “No Static”, immersing
herself in “blues, roots and Americana music.”
Yet happily for newcomers, “No Static”
radiates a folk rock with genuine swabs
of pop and soul—no banjos or Dylanesque
twangs in sight.

Promoting her new album, Watson and
band performed in the 900 Room last Friday
night in a free concert sponsored by the
Union Board. The band played Watson’s
relatable infusions to a crowd of eager fans
and welcoming newcomers.

Songs ranged from the crisp, pop
swaggering, “Chains of Love,” (with an entire
verse rapidly sung in French) to lonesome
and contemplative “When is Enough,
Enough,” (recently used for an episode of
Canadian teen-drama, “Degrassi :the Next
Generation”). All her songs presented
enough pop beats and bluesy delivery to
ease even those new to folk rock out of their
musical anxieties.

No addictive hooks as of yet. “No Static”
proved just pop enough to create a fun,
vibrant mood in the intimate setting. Fans
from her regular touring spots, including
some self-proclaimed “Band Babes,” cheered
and waved cardboard signs in her honor.
The rest of the audience soon captured the
cheerful spirit, getting up to do yoga poses at
Watson’s command and hollering “amen” to
her rendition of a revival classic. Watson as a
performer proved polite and self-deprecating,
apologizing for plugging her own album at a
promotional concert.

Although embracing the mainstream
style, Watson still roots herself in the true
craft of music making. She possesses serious
musical chops and shows it, descending from

_. Arts & LIVING
Kellin Watson rocks out

i

a musical pedigree that includes Doc Watson,
the bluegrass, old-time music legend.

Her lyrics play strong, sounding coy in
“Give In” and hinting at more epic heights
in “Weep Not” (inspired by a poem from
Harlem Renaissance poet James Weldon
Johnson). Her classic, raspy voice adds edge
to her love-worn songs and fills out excellent
covers of Bill Withers’ “Lovely Day,”
“Kissing My Love,” “Use Me” and Martha
Carson’s Country-Gospel revival “Can’t
Stand up Alone.”

While she is accomplished on guitar,
Watson’s forceful band effectively backs her
up. She leads a cohesive, talented group with
effortless fun. Electric guitarist Tom Leider
and drummer Jim Arendale also sang vocals
for the band’s cover of “Use Me” in the
encore performance.

Yet for all the band’s impressive
acrobatics, Watson’s potency and poetry as
a vocalist shines most with nothing but her
acoustic guitar. This proud southernerdisplays
serious talent for mournful song making,
and comes across with the sophistication of
Standards singers combined with the story-
telling tilt of the true Country classics.

Kellin Watson grew up in Black Mountain,
N.C., surrounded by music. Her father, Fox
Watson, is a guitarist and fiddler who toured
with Bruce Cockburn and Jerry Jeff Walker;
her mother, Bebe Watson, is a singer and
performed for two tracks on Watson’s “No
Static.”

Soon after learning some guitar chords
at 13, Watson began writing lyrics. She
initially followed the academic track, but
finally dropped out of school to pursue music
professionally.

Watson released her debut independent
album “Paper Bird” in 2003 at the age of
22. She followed with a live album “Kellin
Watson Band Live, Red Flag” in 2005, and
after traveling for inspiration recorded “Static
Bird” in 2006 at the famous Echo Mountain
recording studio in Asheville, N.C.

ee

North Carolina native Kellin Watson has what it takes to be a low-key artist with

incredible talent.

Famous fans include Smashing Pumpkins
lead singer Billy Corgan and country-singer
Sara Evans. Evans chose Watson as one
of the top two finalists from Asheville to
perform live on national television as a part

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

with strings

11

- |

and soul

Bio by Laney Schenk

of the CMT show “Big Break.”

“Nothing contrived or fake about Kellin,”
said Evans. “[She is] one of those people who
have a whole lot of talent and sings from her
soul.”

‘What About a Teakettle?’ A creative look at a young mind at work

TYLER ATWOOD
Staff Writer

Picture this: a kaleidoscope of red and
green and gold; a robust Christmas tree,
weighed down by the quirky assemblage
of thirty years’ worth of Hallmark and
homemade omaments; an aged leather sofa
in front of a frosty window.

Sounds charming, right?

Like a picture-perfect setting for cuddling
under a Snuggie and reading late into the
night by the a fire?

Now forget that image and instead
imagine white walls, fluorescent lights, the

intermingling aromas of cleaning chemicals
and shampoo, Inkewarm water and pruning
toes. Perhaps a little less ideal? Au contraire.
Perhaps even more ideal.

Stepping into the bathroom with a book
means stepping into a fictional world isolated
from the familiar walls of my house. My
bathtub is a portal through which I enter into
the lives of whimsical characters, pervade
their thoughts and question their actions.
Which is why this winter the majority
of my time devoted to reading was spent
not sprawled out next to a crackling fire
but hunched over my book in a cramped
bathtub.

PATTERSON AWARDS

APPLICATIONS DUE
02/701709

The Ernest Finney Patterson Awards recognize and honor the life of
Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of economics
at Davidson College (1957-1979) and social activist.

The Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1,200 a year
to subsidize formal study, research, field work, or commmunity service
by currently enrolled students at Davidson College that promotes improving
society and bettering the human condition consistent with the
personal ideals of Professor Patterson

Application forms are available at
www.davidson.edu/academic/economics/economics.html,
and the completed applications are due by February 1 to Dr. David Martin,
chair of the Department of Economics.

Needless to say, I was clean by the time
I finished Jonathan Safran Foer’s second
bestselling novel “Extremely Loud and
Incredibly Close.” Really clean. Two-
straight-days-in-the-bathtub clean. From the
moment I unwrapped it on Christmas moming
and read its intriguing first sentence (“What
about a teakettle?’”) to the instant I finished it,
I was touched by Foer’s imaginative — and at
times incredibly profound and compassionate
— prose.

“Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close”
is narrated by Oskar Schell, whose father has
recently died in the tragedies of Sept. 11. This
book, however, is about identity, not tragedy.

It is a universal tale about a young boy:

coping with grief, growing up and struggling
to understand his position within the vast and
complex network of human relationships.

Despite these heavy themes, the book
is exceptionally humorous and creative.
Throughout the novel, Oskar is on a mission
to find the lock for a key he discovers in a
vase in his father’s closet. His only clue is
an envelope labeled “Black.” Foer’s ability
to dissect the mind of 9-year-old Oskar on
the boy’s quest through the five boroughs of
New York City truly attests to his prowess as
a writer and an artist.

Oskar begins his journey by looking up
the name “Black” in the phone book and he
is determined to visit all 472 of the people
listed, from Aaron Black to Zyna Black. He
resolves to visit at least two people every
Saturday and Sunday for the next year and
a half until he learns everything he can about
the key.

The following weekend, Oskar sets out
with a special field kit he’s put together of
the things he thinks he may need on his

adventure. These items range from a flashlight
and Fig Newtons to a topographical map of
New York, white gloves and iodine pills (“in
case of a dirty bomb,” of course). On these
escapades, Oskar encounters a group of
eclectic characters, and his interactions with
them are unforgettable and extraordinarily
funny.

In a New York Times review of the
book, Michiko Kakutani accuses Oskar of
“exasperating precocity,” referring to him
as a “contrived” and “entirely synthetic
creation.”

But I disagree. I think that Foer adopts
the mindset of a 9-year-old boy coming to
terms with the loss of his father perfectly.
Oskar is opinionated, frank and sarcastic,
not to mention remarkably intelligent. But
these characteristics neither detract from his
sincerity nor do they make him any less real.

In fact, for me, the most powerful and
provocative moments of the book are those
in which Oskar lets his guard down and
reveals that he is capable of being vulnerable,
of having and experiencing real human
emotions.

Many of these occur as he recalls
memories of his father. But we encounter
the majority of them as he sympathizes with
the world around him. Oskar constantly
uses the phrase “heavy boots” to express his
depression, and is always inventing things he
thinks will make his boots—and the boots of
everyone else—lighter: for example, “little
microphones” that could “play the sounds of
our hearts through little speakers.”

It is in these moments that Foer succeeds
in reminding us of the healing power
of imagination in what is ultimately a
captivating, hilarious and reassuring story.
