THE DAvVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 3

Documentary filmmaker discusses dying languages

SARAH BETH KEYSER
Guest Writer

Around 6,900 languages are spoken
around the world today, but 50 to 90 percent
are expected to die out by the end of the cen-
tury. Last Tuesday, a screening of the docu-
mentary “The Linguists” brought the signifi-
cance of these lost languages to the attention
of the Davidson campus. The film originally
premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in
2008 and follows the travels of two linguists,
David Harrison and Greg Anderson, as they
document dying languages. “The Linguists”
documents their journeys in Siberia, India
and Bolivia as they track down the last re-
maining speakers of endangered languages.

Many factors can contribute to the decline
of a language, including opposing political
powers, boarding schools that prohibit native
languages and economic or social benefits of
speaking a more dominant language.

One individual that stood out in the film
was Native American Johnny Hill, Jr, who
lives in Arizona. He is considered the last
speaker of his native language of Chemhue-
vi. Hill learned the language from his grand-
mother. However, since he is the last person
alive that is fluent in Chemhuevi, he has no
one to talk to in his native language. All he
can do is speak it to himself and listen to re-
cordings of other speakers. The recordings

were made in 1969.

“The Linguists” demonstrates that the
loss ef a language is not only significant to the
descendants of that particular culture. Losing
a language erodes the knowledge base of hu-
mankind. Different languages contain vital
information concerning taxonomy of various
animal species, different counting methods
and geography. One example from the film
is the Sora language of India that uses a base
of 12 for counting instead of the base 10 that
English speakers are used to. Because of the
varying base, the number 93 would translate
as ‘four twenty twelve one’ in Sora.

David Harrison, one of the linguists of
the documentary, was on campus to intro-
duce the film and answer questions following
the screening. He also took time to visit Pro-
fessor of English Annie Ingram’s “English
Language” class to elaborate on the film and
answer questions. He expanded on the film’s
mention of the role of prestige in preserv-
ing languages. In order to retain speakers, a
language must appear prestigious not in the

eyes of adults, but children around the age of

five or six. Children represent.the future of
the language, and if linguists can succeed in
making the endangered language seem cool
to kids, then they will continue to speak it.
Harrison also discussed writing systems
and their role in preserving endangered lan-
guages, which are often only oral systems.

David Harrison, who spoke at Davidson on December 1, works with South American

speakers of a dying language.

He pointed out that the English writing sys-
tem is-one of the most ill fitted for our spoken
Ianguage. Whereas we only have five sym-
bols for vowels, the average English speaker
has twelve to fifteen vowels. The film and
Harrison’s discussion gave the audience a
chance to explore the topic of endangered
languages that, until recently, has received

InterVarsity sponsors international giving

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Among the many options for Davidson
students who which to participate in holiday
projects that benefit the community is Opera-
tion Christmas Child, an international gift-
giving project. The project is sponsored on
campus by InterVarsity, a Christian student
organization.

“Davidson InterVarsity has a long tradi-
tion of volunteering with Operation Christ-
mas Child,” Alex Sineath, president of Da-
vidson’s InterVarsity chapter, said. “We think
it’s a great way for Davidson students who
are usually very busy during the holidays to
give back. It doesn’t take a lot of time to put
some toys, candy, and toiletries in a shoebox,
but it makes a big difference to the children
who receive them who may not receive any-
thing else this Christmas.”

Operation Christmas Child delivers shoe-
boxes filled with necessities and gifts to chil-
dren across the world. This year, the project
will reach over 8.2 million children in over
100 countries. Although the destinations
change from year to year, countries that have
received donations in the past include North
Korea, Georgia and Iraq.

The organization estimates that over 70
million students have received boxes since
the project began in 1993. Operation Christ-
mas Child also sponsors an on-going “dis-
cipleship program,” which includes Sunday
School lessons for children who have re-
ceived boxes.

Shoeboxes are packed with each child’s
needs in mind. Donors may choose to pack a
box for either a boy or a girl and can choose
from three age categories: 2-4, 5-9, or 10-
14 years old. The organization encourages
donors to include toys, dolls, small musical
instruments, school and arts and craft sup-
plies, personal hygiene items, clothing and
jewelry, hard candies, watches or flashlights.
Operation Christmas Child will not deliver
any war-related toys, including military fig-
ures or toy guns or knives.

InterVarsity is not only packing the box-
es, however. On Wednesday, December 9,
InterVarsity is hosting a service trip to the
Operation Christmas Child distribution cen-

A family of five receives boxes filled with Christmas-gifts as a part of Operation
Christmas Child’s international ministry.

ter in Charlotte, which will send off almost
two million boxes this year.

The students will bring the donations
from the campus drive and will volunteer
at the center over the course of the evening.
Students will help prepare boxes to ship
abroad, and Operation Christmas Child will
put a small message about God’s love in each
box, written in the language of the child who
will receive it.

Operation Christmas Child is sponsored
internationally by Samaritan’s Purse, a non-
denominational evangelical Christian organi-
zation whose mission is to provide “spiritual
and physical aid to hurting people around the
world.”

The Samaritan’s Purse website reads:
“Since 1970, Samaritan’s Purse has helped
meet needs of people who are victims of war,
poverty, natural disasters, disease, and fam-
ine with the purpose of sharing God’s love
through His Son, Jesus Christ.”

Samaritan’s Purse, for whom Reverend

Franklin Graham is a spokesperson, is in-
volved in a number: of other international
projects, including. a World Medical Mis-
sion, an HIV/AIDS education program and a
church rebuilding program in Sudan.

“Our mission statement for Davidson In-
terVarsity is to be an open community follow-
ing Christ into discipleship and restoration,”
Sineath explained. “We think that partnering
with Operation Christmas Child is an effec-
tive way of bringing Christ’s message of love
and restoration across the world, and at the
same time bringing a bit of joy to children
this Christmas.”

Eight students are leading InterVarsity’s
Operation Christmas Child drive this year.
Thanks to their efforts, the organization has
already collected 53 shoeboxes. The dona-
tion table is located on the first floor of the
union, where anyone is welcome to drop off

-a box. “It’s been a very successful year, and

we’re grateful to everyone who took the time
to fill a shoebox,” Sineath said.

minimal attention.

“The Linguists” is available for free
viewing on babelgum.com, or check out
Harrison’s book entitled “When Languages
Die.”

toads; The law applic

‘eee ee,

foal a highways ‘but t fo any public

fe can and will enforce this law on and
around eampus for the safety of motorists’
as welLas pedestrians? Walker said, “Bé

