THE DAVIDSONIAN

- —- +

PERSPECTIVES

Davidson’s inconvenient truth

Jon Kass
Guest Columnist

Every year, thousands of high school students looking to
join the “Davidson family” are obligated to write 250 words
on what the cherished Honor Code means to them. Many
of them have probably taken tours of the campus and heard
the familiar anecdote of the exemplary Davidson student
(fortuitously carrying Scotch tape) who happens upon a
$20 dollar bill and tapes it to a sign post so that the rightful
owner may retrace his or her steps to be reunited with their
lost Andrew Jackson. Perhaps they have also heard about the
library’s lack of security scanners, as students are trusted not
to simply walk out with unchecked books. I suspect they have
even heard about un-proctored exams, community bicycles
and the open-door policy that exists on most halls. The best
applicants will cleverly integrate these examples as shining
emblems of the wonderful community they want to take part
in, of the honorable environment they are dying to join. The
best essays will tip-toe around the signs on the library doors
that tell us to take our belongings with us, since they “continue
to experience thefts.” They will fail to mention the yellow
bicycles toppled over in mud with the chain flung yards away
from the rest of the frame. Mentioning such things does not
make for a good application essay.

I, however, already go to Davidson, and [ gain nothing
from ignoring the deterioration of the Honor Code that “sets
Davidson apart” from other schools. So I am going to explain
exactly what the Honor Code means to me now, and this time
my first-hand interaction with the truth will safeguard against
unnecessary sugar-coating.

The Honor Code still appears to function from the
academic standpoint, where students can be trusted not

to cheat or plagiarize on their papers and exams. Such a
statement could however be attributed to that innate optimism
J have, and in fact I make the comment only because of the
absence of evidence to the contrary. In reality, the crumbling
state of affairs in so many other aspects of the Honor Code
is probably paving the way for violations to creep into the
academic sector.

For now, stealing is still easier to get away with than
plagiarizing, particularly if you are just pilfering those little
things lacking characteristic markings, the things that could
belong to anyone: iPods, laptops, cameras, even jewelery.
The recent rise in frequency of such thefts has done little to
deter students from continuing to trust in the Honor Code, but
of late I have noticed small changes. A rise in bike locks. A
growing unease for unwatched belongings in the library. My
freshman year, such thievery was attributed to the “townies,”
that dark class of people whose enigmatic background fails to
disguise their evil intent. Such infrequent losses were accepted
as an unavoidable sacrifice that arose from the unfortunate
proximity of the Davidson “bubble” to such a malicious group
of people. But it doesn’t take the Hardy Boys to realize that

the purse taken from a court party coat table is not the work "|

of a mysterious outside visitor, nor is the bike taken from
Richardson and abandoned at the Union. Just last weekend,
an iPod was stolen from my own apartment during a party,
and weirdly enough I knew everyone who was invited. If I
could do it again, I would still come to Davidson; the school
still has many selling points. The Honor Code I wrote my 250
words about, however, is no longer one of them.
Pledged: Jon Kass

Jon Kass ’10 is an English major from St. Petersburg,
Fla, Contact him at jokass@davidson.edu.

Drug war has failed, so legalize it

Sunny LEE
Guest Columnist

“The economy sucks, dude, they should totally legalize
pot.” You hear it all the time on late-night comedy shows and
even later-night rants on the Court. Sure, it makes your mind
stretch a little more than it might be used to, but is it really
that far-fetched?

When you scratch the surface, the argument for
legalization actually has a few good things going for it. A.
2007 Senate Joint Economic Committee, headed by Virginia
Sen. Jim Webb, found that the combined government
expenditure on the prison system is roughly $200 billion a
year — nearly twice the 2009 budget for the U.S. Army and
a little over four times that of the Department of Education.
More significant were findings that increasingly stringent
changes in drug policy have had the single greatest impact
on rising incarceration and recidivism rates. In fact, crime
rates in almost all areas (including violent crimes) have fallen
drastically in recent decades. The sole exception has been the
rate of drug-related arrests, which spiked sharply after the
passage of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 and continues
to rise. Evidence suggests that actual rates of crime have
much more to do with our perception of drug-related crimes
and their treatment in the legal system than the alarming
rise in the national prison population. According to the 2005
Department of Justice’s year-end report, 55 percent of the
roughly 2.3 million people incarcerated in America are in
prison for drug-related offenses.

Punitive drug policy, despite its good-intentions, has
only exacerbated the drug problem. Mandatory minimum
sentences for first-time offenders and a widespread lack of
prison programs aimed at rehabilitation and treatment have
created a difficult cycle. Penalties for drug-related crimes,
particularly among the youth, often include permanent
penalties that can destroy entire lives. Short-term prison
sentences, while ostensibly “minimal,” preclude opportunities
for future education and employment. What are the prospects
for an inner-city youth with no education, a criminal record
and no job opportunities?

Aside from taking some heat off our prison systems,
there is a lot that can be said about potential income from
legalized drugs. New “sin taxes,” similar to those on alcohol
and cigarettes, would not only bring in much needed revenue,
but also sharply reduce money and prestige available to the
established drug cartels in Mexico; furthermore, the relaxation
of drug laws would reduce a vast amount of government
expenditure related to drug-trafficking and organized crime
activities. This tax revenue would offset the associated health
risks by insuring that people who choose to take those risks
will ultimately be the ones paying for the consequences.

Certainly, it would not be an ideal situation to have
people using stuff like legalized ecstasy, but it is the lesser

of two evils. Much like the reviled 21-year-old limit on
alcohol consumption, there is no evidence that strict national
drug policies have succeeded in reducing usage—in fact,
much like alcohol consumption during the Prohibition
era, evidence suggests the exact opposite has occurred.
Alberto Fujimori, president of Peru from 1990-2000, stated
in an interview in 1993 that far from reducing supply and
availability, the aggressive drug policies implemented at the
time caused a ten-fold increase in cocaine production. Strict
policies only served to drive drug traffickers further from the
public view and militarize wealthy drug cartels. Similarly
the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy,
an international group composed of 17 prominent Latin-
American individuals including three former heads of state,
recently concluded that the War on Drugs had failed and
urged for a new approach to drug policy, citing drastic rises in
organized crime, drug production and consumption and drug-
related violence caused by prohibitionist policies.

The real danger of not only the War on Drugs ‘but
also our prison system as a whole, is its improper focus
on indiscriminate punishment rather than rehabilitation.
Our drug policy should be aimed at restoring inmates as
productive members of society, not miring them in an endless

cycle of poverty and crime. The philosophy at the heart of our

legal system is to prioritize protecting the rights of the citizen

rather than to punish them. So, why are we expending such.

vast resources prosecuting largely nonviolent and victimless
acts that fall well within the realm of personal discretion? Is
this the justice of the law? To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln,
an early opponent of prohibition, legislation on drugs goes
beyond reason in that it attempts to control man’s appetite
by legislation and makes a crime out of things that are not
crimes.

Fears that legalization would cause drug usage to soar
in the short-term are certainly valid, but with a progressive
system of decriminalization accompanied by educational and
preventative measures implemented in gradual steps. I see no
reason why this wouldn’t work. We did it with alcohol, and we
did it with cigarettes—two fairly harmful substances regularly
taxed, traded, consumed and petitioned against. We’ve taken
a progressive and holistic approach in dealing with alcohol in
particular, emphasizing the need for transparency, education
and self-responsibility in preventing abuse and harm, even
substituting rehabilitative programs in lieu of jail time. Let’s
be realistic. We aren’t going to stop drug usage, so we might
as well encourage its usage in more open and safer settings.
Rather than drive it underground, we should strive for more
controllable circumstances and encourage abusers to seek
help. Of course I honestly doubt we’ll ever get there in our
lifetimes, but wouldn’t it be nice if justice was just?

Sunny Lee ’1] is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y.
Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.

Sy)
ana,whi

yle. ‘Popular
meee ofa ais like Flight eet th

lms Of te tonality Wher s the first half of:
this decade | featured much | popular music: that ‘centered,
urhythmic i apenas (rap and Hip-hop). the latter hal

hy

canye

ol x

in which the auto-fune ‘takes’ care of all the pitches
meade 4

supposed fo sing:

