Eiement i it seems that obviate educatio is genera
articular amount of f frustration lately

ecally liberating.” But it is unclear how.
will build | “disciplined and creative minds.
The physical. ‘education.’ partment ‘¢ conten
“amidst. thes e wel ight c of classes tra-curricular activitic
: “and social lives, we often over-extend ourselves
a _long Tai- Chi class, , they: feelin might relieve’ ‘stress. an

:

Students, though,’ are. not, entirely to blame. “The:
E; department readily. admits, that Tecord keeping ‘ha
uffered from inefficiencies in recent : years “In fact, th
_ Prior department leadership, which exited in 2007, 0:
_ failed to record whether students ‘successfully complete
Lthe classes. they registered for: As a-result, there-is: no
eat confusion as to which students ‘have ‘outstand
equirements/ ‘Additionally, the ¢ ‘software’ program th
4 students currently use to register for P.-E, classes, require
_ administrators: to manually‘ enter each student’s: ‘contac
nformation and attendance record, A new registration si sit

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LBL ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
Managing Editer

Kate Kelly
p News Editors
7 A, Katherine Johnson & Caroline Wood
j Perspectives Editors
/ Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
a Arts & Living Editors
f ennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
- Yowl Editor
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors aE
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley /
Business & Circulation Managers,“
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright #
Online Editor =”
Greg Newman
Content Manager #
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

Beh,

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

=,

Sunny LEE
Guest Columnist-

In his Nov. 19 response, Spencer Cowan ignores the
overarching point of Mario Silva’s article — that Davidson, as
a community, is intolerant of atheism — and instead compares
atheism to totalitarianism.

First of all, really?

Faulty reasoning aside, his muddled and misleading
argument did have one legitimate point: not all opinions
are equal. The opinion that the moon is made of cheese can
be safely ignored on the basis of empirical evidence. But
when considering matters of faith, how do we determine
the “legitimacy” of beliefs? Since it is not possible to
conclusively prove or disprove the existence of the divine,
it would seem that evaluating different faiths could not be an
objective science. In which case, it might actually be a good
idea to explore all of them.

Just as I would not ask a political science professor to
endorse totalitarianism (which, incidentally, we study as
often as we do democracy), I will not ask the College to
endorse atheism. I do take issue, however, with the stigma of
illegitimacy that atheism suffers at Davidson.

Whether or not it is palatable to all Davidson students,
atheism is becoming increasingly relevant in modern
society and should be afforded the same respect granted to
other belief systems. The American Religious Identification
Survey, conducted in 2001, found that 14.1 percent of all
Americans describe themselves as “without religion.” In
2005, the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority of the
United Kingdom, a regulatory board for public examinations,
announced that it would be instituting national guidelines for
the study of atheism, humanism, agnosticism and other non-
religious beliefs in light of their importance.

To disregard the teaching of non-religious beliefs at
Davidson would be not only an academic injustice, but a
spiritual disservice. Non-religious beliefs play just as much
of a role in personal enrichment for believers as religion
courses do for skeptics.

Spencer’s implicit suggestion that belief in God is
necessary for spiritual and intellectual enrichment is not only
strikingly fallacious, but also rather condescending, insulting
and intolerant. While some may believe that skepticism is
a diminishing quality, atheists such as John Lennon, Kurt
Vonnegut and David Hume would probably beg to differ.
Didn’t these men represent in many ways the pinnacle
of personal enrichment, both intellectually and morally?
(Author's note: further research revealed that these men are
widely considered morally bankrupt).

TIVES

Atheism warrants equal status

THE DaAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 21, 2009

It is self-defeating to consider moral enrichment and
Spirituality as inextricably entwined. We should be able to
have a conversation about ethics that doesn’t inevitably lapse
into religion. Davidson’s mission—to give students wisdom
when there is no light, righteousness when there is no path — is
far greater than any one religion can adequately encompass.
To paraphrase Vonnegut, the essence of morality is to behave
decently without expectation of reward or punishment. Just
as the Honor Code asks us to be honorable for honor’s sake,
we should learn for humanity’s sake, not God’s.

Let’s look at it from the practical standpoint. Davidson
is an academic institution that has important ties to religion,
as does nearly every other academic institution in America.
As someone who was raised Presbyterian, I understand the
importance of Davidson remaining faithful to its core values.
But we should retain these values because they are staples
of human decency, not because of our religious affiliation.
Religion should not define Davidson, and religious prejudice is
vastly detrimental to the school’s image and appeal. For an
institution that wishes to compete on a national level, it is no
longer an advantage to be open-minded — it is a necessity.

And is it so wrong to question? To say that open-
mindedness invariably leads to nihilism is patently ridiculous.
Some of the most devout people I know have been skeptics
all their lives. Their skepticism serves to strengthen their own
faith, not undermine it. In religion, as with any other academic
subject, true edification results not from unchallenged
adherence to one maxim, but rather the discussion that results
from the interaction of beliefs.

I do not deny that faith plays an integral role in many
students’ lives or that it is a helpful compass in times of
trouble. I reject, however, the idea that any singular belief
is the only path to Truth. Furthermore, I believe that any
truly logical or moral human is incapable of reaching such
a sadly limiting conclusion. Saying that one will tolerate
another’s faith is as arbitrary and petty as saying one will
tolerate another’s choice of major. It is both presumptuous
and preclusive to true moral growth. If you feel honest in
your faith, open-minded discourse should be a learning
opportunity, not a subversive attack on your morality.

As a proud atheist, I know that I still have much to learn
from my religious counterparts. I know that I did not have to
come to Davidson — it was a choice. But as a Davidsonian, I
believe that we are capable of more than this, and as a human
being, I feel that my choice in faith should be accorded the
respect and recognition it deserves.

Sunny Lee ’1I is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y.
Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu

World’s response to Israel disproportionate

sincera , Based on world media coverage,
you would think Israel’s recent
military actions in Gaza were on
par with Hitler’s march into the
Sudetenland. The world’s media and
the world’s government (the United
Nations) have been completely
hoodwinked by Hamas. For the first
time in three years, Israel has taken
action to protect its citizens from
Gaza-based rocket attacks, and the
world has chosen to lament the
deaths of Hamas terrorists.

How did Israel get into its current
situation of having to invade Gaza? In 2005 Israel brokered a
“land for peace” deal with Hamas in which Israel unilaterally
handed control of Gaza to Palestinians.

Israel’s pullout involved forcibly removing its own citizens
from their homes and destroying their synagogues. Israel not
only handed over Gaza, but its infrastructure as well. At the
same time several international Jewish groups purchased, and
donated to the Palestinians, the greenhouses that departed
settlers had used to grow vegetables normally denied by
the climate. Thus the Israelis not only provided Palestinians
with land, but also a means to succeed in that land. Certain
Palestinians, instead of working toward prosperity, destroyed
the existing infrastructure and greenhouses. Soon after, they
elected the terrorists of Hamas as their leaders. Hamas has
spent the last three years launching thousands of rockets into
southern Israel while turning Gaza into an absolute slum.

Israelis have been dealing with daily rocket attacks for
over three years now. What other nation would have lasted
that long? Imagine that every day the citizens of San Antonio
were greeted with rocket strikes from Mexico. How long do
you think the United States would wait before striking back?

Bossy DesPain

Few countries would hesitate to respond and most ‘would
respond much more harshly than Israel.

Israel takes great care not to harm civilians (probably to its
own detriment). It broadcasts warnings in civilian areas prior
to airstrikes and drops leaflets recommending that people
avoid the rocket-launch sites. It has allowed ambulances and
supply trucks to operate unhindered.

Rather than condemn the terrorists
who use schoolyards as launch
pads, the U.N. condemns the country
defending its citizens.

Israel aims to protect its own citizens, but remains
sensitive to the hardships of those in Gaza. Hamas cannot
claim to do either. Hamas strategically places launch-sites
near schools, hospitals and residential areas, hoping that
Israeli counterattacks will kill civilians—it recognizes that
gruesome images of dead Palestinian children are its most
powerful tool in discrediting Israel.

Despite Hamas’ indifference toward civilian deaths,
the United Nations places little emphasis on addressing the
group’s abhorrent activities, preferring to rebuke Israel.
Rather than condemn the terrorists who use schoolyards as
launchpads, the U.N. condemns the country defending its
citizens.

Israel is the U.N.’s worst Human Rights violator. Perhaps
if the world wishes to solve the problems in the Middle East
it should focus less on blaming Israel and begin confronting
Hamas.

Bobby Despain ’1] is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
Mo. Contact.him.at bodespain@davidson.edu.
