THE Licuts ON ISsuE DECEMBER 9, 2009 7

FACULTY SPONSORS
BREAK FROM STUDY
BREAKS IN 24-HouR

ROOM
SEE PAGE 8

MusLim, JEWISH
STUDENTS SEEK TU-
ITION REBATE FOR
CAMPUS CHRISTMAS

DECORATIONS
SEE PAGE 3

FRESHMAN CHECKS
SCHOOL MAILBOX

FOR SECOND TIME
SEE PAGE 6

SANTA, BROKEN-
HEARTED, MOVES
TIGER WOODS TO

‘“SNAAUGHTY” LIST
Pace 7

OF THE WEEK

SEARCH:
“YacHT Rock
EPISODE 11”’

Your Davidson Honor Section
Editors:
Alex Greening
LL PB&J

Writers:
Amanda Ottaway
Lauren Odomirok

Jess Wentling

Peter Bruton

Brian Correa
Brian Park

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supple-
ment to The Davidsonian. Hence,
nothing in it should be taken as
truth. Word.

UBI ORTA UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER —

ee a ye a December 9 200
A Peek Inside the Post Office:

The Yowl’s Holiday Letters

Dear Santa, Dear consumer-created/history-

I regret to inform you that I distorted god of Christmastide, recipi fent and being an item of util-
have been a negligibly naughty girl This sacred holiday, I don’t “Pr o anges sentimental value
this year. I may or may not have need anything because the Obama
been caught as the leader of my administration has got my back.

college drug ring (too soon Ace??). | In my stocking this year all I ex-
Some accounts have reported wit- | pect are a heaping plate of Obama
nessing my involvement in a brawl | shaped sprinkle cookies and maybe
outside a bar, and certain enemies | some polar ice cap water to wash
of mine may or may not be attempt-| it all down. Don’t fret if you can’t

ing to present me to the Honor get to it though, really. Barack said

Council due to my kleptomaniac he’s got Christmas covered this year .
. : ; . . he heart of any recently incarcer= fo

tendencies when it comes to com- | and I’m expecting my new social-

od, winning a career ‘grand slam.
‘and an Olympic gold medale In.<
_ one instance, Agassi’s s heart bea
at.6-times the speed of a normal
man’s for a month. He also ate’
z cans of Bush’s Baked Beans (in-

-ated relative Here are a couple of

munity bikes. (Fountain Walker ist doctrine and government check the Yow! staff’s favorite holiday:

did NOT find a stash of them in my | from him. In fact, bizarre-gift-giver,
shower, and he also did NOT dis- shouldn’t you be writing letter to
cover my octo-bong.) Obama this Christmahanukwan-

In any case, I have several re- zaakah what with the great O’Bam
quests. All of these things can be being the only one who can save
found in any SkyMall catalog, in your candy cane hut from becoming |
case you want to send the reindeer | pink slush? I feel bad for you, I re-
early with your luggage and catch a| ally do, and this holiday season Ill
USS. Air flight to Charlotte. I would | be praying to little baby Bam about
like the garden statue of three ants | your stock options and your popu-
carrying a gnome. I would also like | larity rating. I'd suggest you take a
the metal cuff bracelet shaped like a] leaf out of the Barack book on how
very long dachshund. And also the | to equate yourself to a god. Then
Box of Applause, which I can open | move on to the Michelle book, How
while closing my eyes and imagine | to get everyone to take out tickets
that I am winning a Grammy. to the gun show. If I’ve learned

That is all. Oh, and I have pre- | anything this year, I’ve learned that
pared a VERY special treat for you | toned arms and the Obamessiah can
when you reach my room, and I do anything.
must admit, it’s much tastier than
cookies. (That’s what the Easter Sincerely,

Bunny told his friends, anyway.) Jess Wentling, your every day lib-
eral word slinger

throat, runny nose, the chills, an and.
nausea? If. yes, then that person |.
‘probably has swine flu and will
die,., sorry. Get on their good side. any amount of V Wheaties

Love,
A.

.

iné

Dear Santa,

It’s Lil Wayne aka Lil Weezy
aka Weezy F. Baby aka Young Mul-
lah aka Young Money aka Birdman
Junior aka Mr. Carter aka Best Rap-
per Alive. All I want for Christmas
is mad drugs and world peace. And
when I say mad drugs I mean a lot.
I have been really good this year, I
mean even Gwen Stefani said she
couldn’t doubt me. You can come
chill at tha Carter too and we could
hang out on Christmas Eve. And if
you don’t have time to get me drugs
and world peace just drop the world
peace. Actually just go ahead and
drop the world peace. Now that I
think about it, it would probably
just be easier to get me cash money.
All I want for Christmas is a milli
in cash money.

Bilide and white and juicy on
sy Furthermore, ats many

ofthe Sydney skyl

y

ture the elusive Pancho Villa, To. bey.
historically: accurate, ‘no guns in the

ideways picture

.

LS St

Ya dig,
Lil Wayne

Please enjoy th
