2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

The advent of spring always ushers in
a host of applications, ceremonies and an-
nouncements. Inboxes are already filled with
reminders of honor societies with vaguely
familiar acronymic names and mission state-
ments even the newest inductees are not
quite sure about. One of the more prestigious
is Phi Beta Kappa (PBK), a strictly academic
honor society invested in scholarly passion,
achievement in research and personal and
professional integrity, and a new host of Da-
vidson students will join its ranks this week.

As is the case with many honor societ-
ies, this year’s inductees are pleased but not
particularly invested; Michelle Jester, °09,
explained, “I certainly would not consider
obtaining a Phi Beta Kappa nomination as
the driving force behind my academic pur-
suits during my four years here at Davidson.
I doubt many people would. But, Phi Beta
Kappa’s motto is definitely something that I
(and I would imagine most liberal arts stu-
dents) value. Along these lines, being in-
ducted into the Phi Beta Kappa Society is an
honor—a nice culminating recognition of my
college academic career.”

This year’s inductees represent students
from a variety of disciplines and areas of
study; the society places equal importance
on the humanities and the sciences in both
the selection of members and the sponsoring
of research and fellowships.

Membership in the society also evidences
and supports the strides Davidson has made
towards equal education and opportunities
for women. While Davidson’s years as a men
school leave records stating that the David-

> A

NEws
Phi Beta Kappa inducts new members to ranks

son chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has received
over 1000 men and 500 women over the
course of its history, half of the inductees of
the class of 2009 are women.

The Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
was instated in 1923 after two years of pe-
titioning the national society, whose first
branch was founded at the College of Wil-
liam and Mary in 1776. The students met for
the first time in a local tavern, and the society
soon spread to Harvard and Yale.

The Phi Beta Kappa Society at large,
which includes chapters at over 250 colleges
and universities, claims to be America’s first
academic honor society. The society also
claims to have pioneered the blueprint for
Greek societies of all kinds, citing its inno-
vative name (an acronym for the society’s
Greek motto, “Love of learning is the guide
of life”), as well as handshake and initiation
procedures.

Phi Beta Kappa is a life-
long membership, and I view
it as a reflection of my life’s
-values in terms of integrity
and exploration.

-Michelle Jester ’09

The induction, which took place yesterday
in the Sprinkle Room, was private; students
in suits and sundresses twittered around the
top floor of the union chatting about classes
and future plans before the event began. The
event was followed by a reception in the Lil-

ly Family Gallery.

The exclusivity of the Davidson chapter’s
proceedings may hearken back to the organi-
zation’s origin as a secret society. The vow of
secrecy was dropped in the late 19" century,
however, after concerns about Freemasons
led to distrust about fraternal organizations
of all kinds, and now the society’s mission,
members and inductees can be found on the
Davidson website.

The national organization of Phi Beta
Kappa, based in Washington, D.C., accepts
over 15,000 members each year; in 2009 Da-
vidson will add 55 members to its chapter,
which is directed by faculty members of the
society inducted into the chapter of their own
undergraduate institution and chaired by As-
sociate Professor Lynn Poland.

Davidson stipulates that inductees must
have maintained a grade point average of 3.6
by the second semester of their senior year,
and Phi Beta Kappa members must not rep-
resent more than 12.5 percent of their class.
Faculty and staff from Davidson’s chapter
then vote to approve those eligible members,
but the committee reminds students that
character and integrity are fundamental to
the society’s values.

The Phi Beta Kappa national society
claims that young inductees will find the so-
ciety an important network for their future
career and personal development, but some
students are skeptical: “I don’t think it will
necessarily benefit me in the future in terms
of a professional career, but that’s not. why I
became a member,” Jester said. She does feel
that the society will play a role in her future
development, however: “Phi Beta Kappa is a
life-long membership, and I view it as a re-
flection of my life’s values in terms of integ-

- Students & Faculfy
Save 10% Everyday. |

Healthy eating can better prepare you for the challenges of
learning and teaching. That is why Healthy Home Market offers
a 10% discount to Davidson faculty and students. Just show your

ID card and save 10% everyday.

* Health & Special Diet Foods

¢ Organic Produce & Meats

e Area’s Largest Selection Of
Name Brand Vitamins and
Nutritional Supplements.

261 Griffith Street ¢ 704.892-6191
www. HEMARKET.com

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

rity and exploration.”

The society emphasizes this lifelong
commitment, keeping members updated with
each other’s life and work through a monthly
newsletter and inviting local chapter mem-
bers to a triennial national convention on the
work and interests of the society.

PBK also collaborates with colleges and
universities to host lecture series on various
topics related to the society’s interests. One
recent lecture at Fordham University featured
a roundtable of journalists addressing politi-
cal concerns about the new presidency, and
upcoming lectures include a memoir reading
and lecture by Sophie Freud entitled “Living
in the Shadow of the Freud Family.”

The society sponsors a number of awards,
including three book awards in literary criti-
cism, scientific literature and humanities
studies, a8 well as awards in undergraduate
teaching and philosophical scholarship.

PBK also sponsors two publications:
one a private publication for and relevant to
members, the other, The American Scholar,
is a quarterly journal of essays in the humani-
ties and sciences. Two unique annual fel-
lowships are granted to further the work of
young researchers: The Walter J. Jensen Fel-
lowship funds six months of research in the
field of French language and literature educa-
tion, and the Mary Isabel Sibley Fellowship
allows young, unmarried female doctorate
candidates to study Greek language, litera-
ture and archaeology for one year.

Although Phi Beta Kappa excites few
Davidson students, just as few realize that
behind what may seem like a pretentious
formality lies an extensive foundation with
a number of vested interests in contemporary
scholarship.

* Bulk Foods (Nuts, Fruits,
Mixes, & More)

* Gluten-Free Food Products

¢ Natural Deli with Wi-Fi.

* Specialty Beer & Wine.

BEST HEALTH
CHARLOT#S FOOD MARKET

EONEA SCENT SIO SS ERE,
