THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Red Hot Chili Peppers stay fresh

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

In the last twenty-five years, popular music in the United
States has worn a variety of hats. In that span of time, funk,
punk, rap, rock, grunge, alternative, pop and indie have all
been the prominent style at some point. Only one band has
successfully been able to blend all these styles together,
easily creating a blend of different styles or specializing in
one. In doing so, the band has also managed to create an
ever-growing fan base. It would seem, therefore, that Red
Hot Chili Peppers are an incredibly talented group that draws
from and pays homage to a host of different musical styles,
performers and influences.

Their first three albums, “Red Hot Chili Peppers,” “Freaky
Styley” and “The Uplift Mofo Party Plan” offer songs that
draw influence mostly from funk, punk and rap. Funk and
punk were very popular by the late-1970’s and early-1980’s
and rap was quickly emerging as a musical force. Red Hot
Chili Peppers do a great job of writing songs that are in one
particular style, such as the funk-influenced “The Brothers
Cup.”

“Mothers Milk” (1989) laid the groundwork for the classic
sound of the group, a perfect amalgamation of the rhythmic
aspects of funk and rap, the raw energy of punk as well as the
melodic content of rock music. Tracks such as “Stone Cold

Bush” and the cover of Stevie Wonder’s “Higher Ground”:

are great examples.

“Blood Sugar Sex Magik,” which came out in 1991, is
perhaps most associated with the quintessential Red Hot
Chili Peppers sound. Musically, it follows “Mothers Milk”
closely. With “Blood Sugar Sex Magik,” however, Red Hot
Chili Peppers showed a wider array of talent and diversity
in songwriting. Funk- and rap-induced “Give It Away” and
“Apache Rose Peacock” contrast clearly with the melodic
and ballad-like “Under The Bridge.”

“One Hot Minute” is Red Hot Chili Peppers’ biggest
change in style. With the coming of a new guitarist, this
album is much more influenced by alternative and hard rock

than punk, funk or rap. Guitarist Dave Navarro’s classic rock
influences are apparent in songs such as “My Friends” and
“Warped.” This album once again demonstrates the group’s
ability to adapt to several different styles of music and write
in those styles.

1999’s “Californication” was by far their most pop-
driven album to date. Contemporary artists that were
enjoying huge successes included pop artists such as Britney
Spears, Backstreet Boys and ‘N Sync. Their songs were
generally based on simple chord progressions, duple meter
and contained melodic vocal lines. These characteristics are
evident in tracks from the album such as “Scar Tissue” and
“Californication.”, °

In 2003, Red Hot Chili Peppers released “By The
Way,” a departure from their signature sound of the earlier
two decades, as well as an extension of the musicality of
“Californication.” Around this time, the so-called indie scene
was beginning to take shape; indie music was seen as an
alternative to mainstream pop music and hip-hop that was
starting to come to the forefront of popular music, much like
early-1990’s alternative rock was a change from the glam-
rock and metal bands of the 1980’s. Songs like “This Is The
Place” and “Throw Away Your Television” demonstrate this;
they still maintain a sense of melody and harmony, yet the
textures and structures of the songs themselves often don’t
follow the standards of popular music.

Their latest album was 2005’s “Stadium Arcadium,” a
two-disc affair. Like “Blood Sugar Sex Magik,” this album
blends several styles together very well; the band was clearly
inspired by funk, rock, rap and punk when they recorded this
album. Anthony Kiedis’ rhythmic vocals, John Fruiscante’s
new-age/alternative rock guitar parts, Flea’s funk and
jazz-influenced bass lines and Chad Smith’s in-the-pocket
drumming provide a balance that is most pleasing. Some of
the best tracks on this album are “Charlie,” “Strip My Mind”
and “Animal Bar.”

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase,
Mad. Contact him at anmukherjee @davidson.edu.

Will work for car rides ©

—CCCC‘“‘i@WKATE: KEL
Managing Editor ,

After a near-death experience on I-77N several weeks ago
I was left distraught, whip-lashed and existentially carless.
Being carless is not an easy life by any means, especially ina
town like Davidson. It’s a lot like being homeless.

When you’re homeless and in a big city there are lots
of shelters, opportunities for work and change lying around
on the street. When you’re carless in a city there are sub-
ways, buses and other modes of cheap public transportation.
At Davidson there is the Town Green, a Ben & Jerry’s and a
WASP-y liberal arts college. None of these things are help-
ful to anyone, with the exception of the monthly PTSA ice
cream social.

After living the high life of having a car on campus, my
fall into carlesssness was tough. Some nights I would go hun-
gry, wondering where I could go within walking distance at
3 a.m. to get some study food. I didn’t want to beg my neigh-
bors for a bag of popcorn—I was too proud.

I couldn’t hit up any of my friends for a ride because they
all depend on me for rides. (I noticed that I saw increasingly
less of these friends during my period of carlessness as they
bummed rides from other acquaintances on campus). The re-
lationship between the car owners and the carless on campus
is typically a congenial one. There are, however, instances
where the relationship can take a turn for the worse. When
you’re friends soon desert you because you become carless,
you might have a problem. When the guy with pink-eye from
your Calculus class asks you do give him a ride home for
Easter break, you also might have a problem.

Being carless left a bad taste in my mouth, literally. After
a while, everything at Commons tastes...like Commons and
you wonder, “What block of nothing in the back are they us-
ing to flavor everything?” At the Union Café I feel like the
victim of grand larceny after buying eight ounces of orange
juice. At the Soda Shop I’m too tempted to get a milkshake
every time I go there that even the thought of it makes me a
little lactose-intolerant inside. Toast? I’ve never been there,
but I’m guessing it would require me to get out of my paja-
mas and I don’t like that. At Bonsai, well, I think we all know
what’s going on with Bonsai.

I don’t mean to complain— actually, I do—but the bottom
line is that I am a lazy college kid with an insomnia problem,
and with all of my money currently going toward car repairs,
it’s hard to be carless at Davidson and not starve.

In an effort to save the carless, Davidson is currently
considering the purchase of Zipcars, a program that makes

college-owned vehicles accessible to the entire student body
for a small fee.

The sad reality is that even when you are old enough to
drink alcohol, you are still considered under-aged to most
rental car companies. Zipcars help solve this problem. Zip-
cars will make our campus so much more open by easily dou-
bling the opportunities for off-campus food as well as making
weekend jaunts to Charlotte more accessible.

During a preliminary visit to Davidson as a prospective
students there are a lot of empty promises made, easy access
to Charlotte and a completely wireless internet network being
two of them. Ironically, the Admission Office’s pamphlets de-
crease the driving distance between Davidson and Charlotte
every year. My senior year of high school I believe it was
around 40 minutes and now I’ve heard it borders 20 minutes
between campus and the Queen City. Either the speed limit is
drastically increasing, Charlotte and Davidson are magneti-
cally attracting one another or someone is lying.

I, for one, will not be lied to. Charlotte is big, very big,
and it is a trip to get there—an odyseey, if you will. Char-
lotte also has a lot of things to offer young college students.
Bars, plays, operas and art-shows run rampant in the city and
it’s a shame that Davidson hasn’t made a stronger connec-
tion transportation wise to connect students to the city. Once
again, Zipcars!

Exploring Charlotte for many students is not just a fun
weekend adventure but a weekly necessity. It is not only
exciting to get out of the Davidson bubble but downright
healthy. If students had to live on this campus all four years
without leaving, there would be an increase not only in our
levels of depression but social/work related anxiety. Students
need to take time out to stop and smell the city smog, to navi-
gate their way through the bad parts of town and discover
their own little nook of Charlotte to enjoy.

Addionally, students need to realize that the world con-
sists of more than just boarding schools, summer internships
and Davidson. Despite efforts to make Davidson more di-
verse, our campus does not realistically reflect the world out-
side of our bubble. Regardless of whether or not you enjoy
campus life, it is only appropriate that we make and effort to
understand the real world because, at one point or another,
we have to face it.

Charlotte provides these opportinities. Cars give you ac-
cess to Charlotte. Carlessness is an issue on campus. Zip cars
can help end carlessness. That is what I think.

Kate Kelly ’1l is an English major from Lexington, Ky.
Contact her at kakelly@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009 9

have, and how many events? What type of i impact shoul

Sere within one year? With ifs inaugural year totaling an.

mentee’ through a a severe illness or wheth
Ly’ helped i in the” nent ir c

ne regen we. struggled to answer was a bow ‘How does
; 7 student-led ‘organization manage 800 members,

peiycians, Jo those of ee are ‘tamil with th
‘old structure,/the ee will Db

pon and community ‘members.’Two parents claimed tha
“the Davidson: student ody! left. {them]. atte 6 bo
with wonderful and tees memories,”

Bs

