THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The twin storylines of competitive play
and heartbreaking defeat found themselves at
work again for the Davidson football team on
Sunday as the Wildcats dropped an agoniz-
ing 14-7 decision to the league-leading But-
ler Bulldogs.

The defeat overshadowed a career day
from Kenny Mantuo ’11, who rushed for a
career-high 147 yards on 16 carries and a
touchdown to pace the Wildcat attack.

The Davidson defense turned in a solid
performance, but gave up two long touch-
down drives for Butler’s only points. The
Bulldogs got on the board with just under
four minutes to play in the first quarter when
Ryan Hitchcock jaunted into the end zone
from eight yards out.

Butler drove 64 yards to the Wildcat 17
on their next drive but came up empty after
David Lang’s field goal attempt failed. The
score remained 7-0 for the remainder of the
first half.

The Bulldog lead was short-lived in the
second half, however, as Mantuo put on a
one-man show. He sprinted 61 yards to the
Butler nine on the first offensive play of the
third quarter. The Bulldogs called a timeout
in an attempt to regain their composure, an
effort that was fruitless as Mantuo scampered
the remaining nine yards to pay dirt on the
next play.

Davidson’s defense looked to continue
the momentum gained by the offense, but
their efforts were undone by a truly unbeliev-
able play on special teams. When the Bull-

THURSDAY

NOVEMBER 5, 2009

3:00PM—6:00PM
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
BROWN ATRIUM, ALVAREZ UNION

60 law schools attending, including:

Duke University, Vanderbilt, William & Mary, Cornell,
U of Maryland, U of Miami, Yeshiva, UNC, Columbia,
U of SC (Carolina & California), Boston College,
Notre Dame, Loyolas of LA, NO and Chicago,
SMU, Tulane, Ohio State, UGA, and MORE!

See complete list of who’s coming:
www.davidson.edu/careers

Attire: Business Casual

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES 414 ALVAREZ
WWW.DAVIDSON.EDU/CAREERS 704-894-2025

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES I]
DAVIDSON COLLEGE J Box 7180 I DAVIDSON, NC 28035
704-894-2132 | CAREERS@DAVIDSON.EDU

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Wildcats fall short in upset bid at Butler

dogs lined up to punt from their own 39, Nick
Savarino ’11 broke through and blocked Mi-
chael Wilson’s kick. The ball bounced right
back to Wilson, however, who recovered it
and booted the ball 60 yards downfield to pin
the Wildcats at their own one.

Davidson would be pinned at the one
on their next drive as well, but the Wildcats
managed to put together a 67-yard march to
the Butler 32. On the outer fringes of field

goal range, Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt es- |

chewed the placekick and instead sent out
Andrew Wohler 711 to punt. Wohler was up
to the task, dropping in a perfect kick that
trapped the Bulldogs on their own 2 with
8:26 to play.

Displaying remarkable composure, But-
ler quarterback Andrew Huck marshaled
his troops and led them 98 yards for the go-
ahead score. Aided by a roughing the passer
penalty, the Bulldogs covered the distance in
11 plays. Huck passed for 42 yards on the
drive, which he concluded with runs of 17
and one yards to give Butler a 14-7 edge.

Davidson had two chances to tie the
game, but both quickly ended in failure. Af-
ter picking up one first down, the Wildcats
gave up possession when Nick Caldicott
stopped quarterback Michael Blanchard ’11
on a 4th-and-one run at the Wildcat 40. An
intentional grounding penalty hamstrung the
Wildcats’ final effort, and Blanchard’s des-
peration throw on 4th-and-21 from his own
11 fell despondently to the turf.

Blanchard finished with 91 yards on 12-
23 passing and also produced 41 yards on
nine carries to complement Mantuo’s efforts
on the ground. Mark Hanabury 711 hauled

in five passes for 40 yards to pace the Wild-
cat receiving corps. Patrick Hunt ’12 led the
Wildcat defense with 11 tackles and was
closely followed by Peter Kidwell’s ’12 nine
tackles.

Scott Gray led the Bulldog ground attack
with 117 yards on 14 carries. Huck added 81
yards on 16 carries and a score to go with his
136 yards on 14-26 passing. Wilson played
a huge role on special teams, placing four of
his six punts inside the Davidson 20, includ-
ing his quick-thinking actions on the blocked
punt.

Penalties plagued the Wildcats as David-
son was whistled for seven penalties totaling
79 yards. The Wildcats also converted only
three out of 13 third down attempts.

“I’m proud of our kids’ effort against an
undefeated team that is at the top of our con-
ference,” head coach Tripp Merrit said. “I
told them in the locker room that we’ve got
to find a way to get it done on those three to
four plays that we have to make in order to
win.”

The loss dropped the Wildcats to 2-6
overall, with a 2-4 mark in the Pioneer Foot-
ball League. Butler improved to 8-0 and 5-0.
The Bulldogs remain in a three-way tie for
the PFL lead with Drake and Dayton and
have also posted an 8-0 mark for the first
time since 1961.

The Wildcats will continue their season
on Saturday when they fly to the West Coast
to take on San Diego. The game will be the
1,000th contest in the history of the Wildcat
football program.

ected for the first score of the game;
“AS. Low: dribbled into the. box,
‘agel raced down..the- middle. Low. Sa
: a brief window and lofted a volley to the «
far post, only to be deflected by the South-.
em keeper. Off the rebound, the streaking -
Bye-Nagel snuck the ball into the back of

‘the netzThe offense could finally by breathe ae
sigh of relief—they had the lead.“ 7
For the next 30 minutes, the Wildeat

‘cautiously avoiding any fatal. error, But
with less than 4 minutes to go, the Eagles

and outshot, the visitors refused to be out-
scored, Zooming along a low-lying trajec-”
ry; their third shot all game raced past
utstretched arms of a ‘diving Ward.

t- was all tied up. But the “Cats had

been in this situation. before. After start-
cing the year’ with a3:6 record, they turned

themselves around midseason to go 6-3. Ae
‘in the SoCon. Their success relied on an

-ability to bounce back, steadying the de*

fense. with a ferocious offensive attack...

their sticky situation. Rachel Barnett.713

led the charge into the Southern half of the o

field, gathering up a long cross and redi-
recting it. to. the tenacious Eagle Keeper
Blocked.

*2©, In the ensuing chaos, the rebound de- -

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

-vthat an play-it has to be effective,

virtue of their 2-0 victory earlier~in: th
“year, advance to the Southern Conferenc
“tournament. They® play- the number-one ‘
2 seed UNC-Greensboro this Friday; N Nov.
at 7:30 pam.”

offense halved. its shooting to 8. attempts, “ge
season at. Alumni: Stadium, ending, the.
« Spartans” ’33-same: conference. unbeate
ent shockwaves, through the formidable & ee Ce
‘Davidson © defenseyThough outmanned «42
» ton said.,“For us, really, the pressure’s off

» so: let’s. go out and continue. what’ Wi

: In “the Tlx] stretched that followed, the:

4 stoped giving away goals that early on we
With conference win number seven ©
‘on the line, Davidson made quick work. of —

“few successful finishes are all that separate
»the Davidson Wildcats from a conference
: title this weekend, :

‘flected off an opponent and trickled past.”
abe plane of the goal line. In one of the =

Men’s Basketball vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
Saturday 7 p.m.
Belk Arena

The ‘Cats begin life without
Stephen Curry in their first and
only exhibition game of the
2009-2010 season. Will Archam-
bault ‘10 is the Wildcats’ leading
returning scorer after averaging
8.3 points per game during the
2008-2009 season.

Outside the Den

College Football
#9 LSU (7-1) at #3 Alabama (8-0)
Tuscaloosa, Alabama
Saturday 3:30 p.m.

The SEC West division title is
on the line as LSU travels to
Alabama to take on the Crimson
Tide. The winner of this game
will most like face Florida in the
SEC title game in what could
be a de facto semi-final to the
National Championship game.

» With the win, the ’Cats tied the: Elo
Phoenix for fourth in. the league;and by”

»The “Cats won. the first meeting this:

now. We-did what we had to do to get. her

been doings If

we do that, we give ou:

just.a month ago, the Cats fell to an
0-2 start in the Southern Conference: No
» -they’re competing for the top of the league:

“team has’ tightened« its focus.’ oWeev

were, You’ ve got to be ready to defend for
long periods of time and be effective with
your play,” Ashton said.” 8
<¢°“When chances come along, you hav :
“to finish them,” he said.“And that’s. what
“we'll focus on this weck ~ being ruthless:
and clinieal with our finishing A. mere
