6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

Few students ever wake in time to see
Davidson’s campus at 4 AM, but this past
Saturday, members of the Environmental
Action Coalition (EAC) gathered behind
Vail Commons to commence cooking a 210
pound hog that they served fourteen hours
later at “Power, People, Pork” — an event
that provided students and parents with
free barbeque, great music and ideas on
environmental awareness.

Planning for this event began last year
when Claire Naisby ’12, the president of the
EAC, suggested that Davidson emulate a
successful UNC Chapel Hill event with the
same name.

“We definitely copped it from UNC, but
we wouldn’t have used [the same name] if
it wasn’t so salient to what we want to do
on campus,” Hayden Higgins ’12, the EAC’s
historian, said. The EAC desired to emphasize
food, and decided that “People, Power, Pork”
would be an effective way to raise awareness
about North Carolina’s pork industry and
provoke discussion about local food.

North Carolina, whose vast history in
agriculture was discussed at the event by
Mart Stewart, the Thomson Distinguished
Visiting Professor of Environmental Studies,
boasts the United States’ second largest pork
industry. It contributes nine million dollars to
the state economy each year.

There are many family-owned farms in
the Davidson area, including Wild Turkey
Farm, who supplied the hog for Saturday’s
dinner. Located in China Grove, NC, the
farm is owned and operated by Lee Menius,
who spoke at the event.

Rapid growth of North Carolina cities,
unfortunately, has led to a decline in
agriculture that Davidson College’s patronage

Seasons change—so should your food

RACHEL MULLINS
Staff Writer

At what time of the year do you eat
tomatoes? Broccoli? Strawberries? Chances
are you eat them all year long, and why
wouldn’t you? Almost every produce item
is readily available at the grocery store, but
abundant availability, which has numerous
repercussions, has not always been the status
quo.

In North Carolina, tomatoes are a late
summer fruit, broccoli a late fall/early winter
vegetable and strawberries a late spring fruit.
Colder climates might see their broccoli
arriving earlier and their strawberries arriving
later. If these plants only grow in certain
seasons, then how is it possible that we can
consume them at any time of the year?

Sometimes a produce plant is genetically
or chemically altered to extend its growing
season or shelf life. These processes have

Arts & LIVING
Weekend barbeque proves it’s big on the (local) pig

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Members of Davidson’s Environmental Action Coalition hosted the “Power, People, Pork” BBQ to raise awareness on Saturday.

could alleviate. If on-campus dining facilities
bought food from local vendors, nearby
farms would see a much-needed boost in
their revenue.

“We can find much of the food we
want to consume within a 100 mile radius
of Davidson,” the college’s Sustainability
Fellow, Kealy Devoy, said.

Advocates tout the many benefits that
both the community and the environment
undergo when an individual chooses to eat
locally. For instance, consuming local food
reduces the amount of gasoline needed for

adverse effects on the food’s nutritional
quality. The high processing a fruit or
vegetable undergoes to increase its shelf life
causes it to lose vitamins and minerals. And,
the longer it goes uneaten, the more nutrient-
depleted the food becomes.

This deterioration explains why summer
tomatoes are typically bright red, while winter
tomatoes are a paler shade. The nutrients that
make the tomatoes red are no longer present
in the tomatoes found during colder months.
Frozen vegetables, which are frozen soon
after they have been harvested, retain most
of their nutrients and are therefore healthier
than out-of-season vegetables.

Not only do we sacrifice nutritional value
when we eat produce out of season, we also
sacrifice flavor. A strawberry in late May
tastes significantly better than a strawberry
in early March, yet we have become so
accustomed to having whatever fruit or
vegetable we want that we hardly notice the
difference in flavor.

transportation and reduces the consumer’s
carbon footprint. Coincidentally, October
24th was the International Day of Climate
Action, a day designed to raise awareness
about carbon emissions.

As meat requires much more energy to
produce than vegetables or grain, simply
eating less meat actually has a greater impact
on the environment than just eating locally.
The EAC realizes, though, that not everyone
is willing to convert to vegetarianism.

“If you’re going to eat meat, eating locally
produced meat is the way to go,” Rachel

The demand for all types of produce
throughout the year has lead to produce that is
in season to be of lesser quality. Because the
industry has adjusted for the increased yearly
demand, grocery stores carry tomatoes in the
summer that still look pale and mushy.

Until we start to demand better quality,
seasonal produce, as opposed to a large
quantity and a wide variety, we will continue
to sacrifice flavor and nutrition.

Eating seasonally, however, does not mean
only eating two or three fruits or vegetables,
as each month always has an abundance from
which to choose. In spring there are greens
and berries; summer provides tomatoes,
eggplants, melons and zucchini; in fall we
see winter squash, apples and pumpkins;
winter harvests include greens like Swiss
chard, kale, spinach and broccoli.

Eating seasonally can be a fun and healthy
way to learn more about the sources of our
food and to make sure that we do not forget
the natural limits of agriculture.

Mullins ’12, a member of the EAC, said.

Many of the parents and students who
enjoyed Saturday’s barbeque will certainly
agree that locally-produced meat is delicious.
Local food, from fruits and vegetables to
meat and dairy, is fresher, more flavorful and
nutritionally valuable than food shipped over
long distances.

There are, unfortunately, quite a few
obstacles to eating locally at Davidson
College. The college requires a high level
of liability insurance that most small-scale
farmers cannot afford. Also, a single farm
would not be able to supply the amount of
food the college requires. But solutions
exist.

“The farms that Davidson chooses to buy
from could potentially buy liability insurance
together,” said Devoy. So, the dialogue
over switching to local food at Davidson is
ongoing.

Even if a switch to local food at Davidson
College proves impossible, every little bit
counts, and “Power, People, Pork” certainly
counted. The turnout pleasantly surprised
Devoy and the members of the EAC.

“T don’t think any of us thought it would
be the success it turned out to be,” Galen King
710, the EAC’s treasurer, said. It certainly
sounds like the 4am wake up call paid off.

d s-article, “People; Power, Por!
states that only eleven states have criticized
eriminalizaing. wend, farms./This | “only”

also: like. to clarify that the’ states’ that
have. outlawed. photography of. farms are
infringing: upon. First Ammendment rights,

Wed. 10/28 Thur. 10/29 ri. 10/30 Sat. 10/31 Sun. 11/1 Mon. 11/2 Tue. 11/3
“Disability in Public:| Film Screening with “Hot, Flat and Crowd.
“Getting to Normal: A A Conversation” Live Organ Ac- HAPPY ed--An Update,”
Six Party Talks Simula- | VAC, companiment:“The | HALLOWEEN! Best-selling author
tion on North Korea” 7-8 p.m. Hunchback of Notre All Hallows’ Day-- and journalist Thom-
6 p.m. Dame” Sleep late, cleanthe | Carney Sandoe & As- as Friedman
DCPC, punch stains offthe | sociates Information | puke Performance
“The Davidson Tra- “SOS North Korea: 1:30 & 11 p.m.-- sofa, catch up on Session Hall,
dition of Honor and Confronting the A Davidson Hallow- homework afterthe | 7 p.m. 2:30 p.m.
Integrity: Unveiling the | Nuclear and Security| een tradition! “Tartuffe” weekend Halloween
Mysteries” Challenges of Kim Duke Performance | £estivities.-. “Past Contributions
Lilly Family Gallery, Jong Il’s DPRK” “Tartuffe” Hall, and Future Prospects
7 p.m. 900 Room, Duke Performance 8 p.m. of Memory Studies”
7 p.m. Hall, 7:30 p.m.

8 p.m.
