THE DAVIDSONIAN

CIA memos set caged eagle free

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

The recent release of Central Intelligence Agency memos
by President Obama is a matter of significant concern.
As conservatives are quick to point out, the now-public
memos present certain national security risks; former CIA
chief Michael Hayden went on Fox News to say that the
declassified documents reveal to terrorist groups the extent
to which the U.S. government can legally press prisoners
for information. With this information, terrorist groups and
enemy combatants in the War on Terror will undoubtedly be
trained to resist certain types of interrogation. However, it
should be noted that the reliability of testimonies given under
the threat or influence of torture is questionable in the first
place, and it is impossible to say if the torturing of terrorists
has actually halted any attacks on the United States since
9/11. Other right-wing pundits have observed that the memos
cast a damning light on the CIA and damage the intégrity of
the United States as a whole. I too have been worried about
this particular result, and I fear for the prestige and strength
of one of America’s critical intelligence gathering agencies.
However, amidst the bad news, there is a lot to be hopeful
for.

Claims that the America has suffered a blow to its record
with the release of the memos fail to recognize the reality
of the situation. The world and United States. citizens have
long known that intelligence gatherers from both the military
and the CIA used waterboarding and other forms of torture to
elicit confessions from detainees. While it is true that we now
know the shocking magnitude and regularity of the torture
visited upon prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, the damage
to the United States’ integrity had already been done by
Alberto Gonzalez and the atrocities committed at Abu Ghraib.
If anybody’s reputation is being damaged here, jit is last-
year’s America, the America of George Bush. Undoubtedly,
Obama’s decision to reveal the documents has served to
restore America’s standing in the world. Governments and
individuals who criticize the United States for speaking out
against human rights violations while committing them in the
War on Terror now lack some legitimacy. Whether or not you
believe torturing terrorists is a violation of human rights is

PERSPECTIVES

inconsequential in this case, as many non-U.S. groups do see
our torturing of inmates at Guantanamo as such. In addition
to the foreign relations benefit, we now have an opportunity
to reassess the role and methods of the CIA in such a way that
increases the agency’s usefulness and manageability.

Morale at the CIA is at a dangerously low point. Former
CIA officer Robert Baer described the organization as
“essentially broken,” to BBC Radio. The Iraq War and the
War on Terror have been public fiascoes for the agency, from
the questionable intelligence on Saddam Hussein’s WMDs
to the torture of prisoners at Gitmo. With the sunlight now
shining on these memos, there exists an opportunity to grow
the CIA back to its previous heights and even beyond.

The CIA has always been an agency engaged in traditional
means of intelligence gathering, but recently it has become
increasingly politicized. CIA Director George Tenet’s
resignation in 2004 was undoubtedly due to political reasons
related to the faulty intelligence gathered in the lead-up to the
Iraq War and the subsequent failure to find any WMDs. Baer,
a recipient of the Career Intelligence Medal and once detailed
as “perhaps the best on-the-ground field officer in the Middle
East” by investigative journalist Seymour Hersh, recalled
conversations about torture between the CIA, the U.S.
military and the President. In these talks, Tenet apparently
agreed to torture detainees of the War on Terror when the
military refused, a move that gave him political leverage
and involved the CIA in activities that have proved to be a
political liability. The CIA, however, was never intended to
deal with prisoners-of-war, a job reserved for the military.

Nor was it meant to play a role in political proceedings, as it.

has during the Iraq War years. Obama’s release of the memos
has served to wash the CIA’s hands of politics, removing it
from an arena that only serves to damage the integrity and
strength of the institution. With the organization free from
the liability of illegal actions like torture, the CIA can now
move on from its recent transgressions and return to its initial
goal of preventing the next Pearl Harbor through -human
intelligence gathering and classical, “boots-on-the-ground”
espionage.

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from
Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris @davidson.edu.

The prospectives’ perspective

Kate KELLY
Managing Editor

Travel to and from Davidson? Some monies. Picking
out proper business attire for an interview? A little bit more
monies. The interview? Stressful. Davidson College night-
life? Clearly you enjoyed it, you’re here. Finding your dream
school? Impossible. The prospective perspective: the great
while whale of disappointments.

Last weekend the prospective students were out on the .

prowl. They were dressing up, dressing down, at the court,
in your dorm room, being awkward and just a little bit too
cool for high school. Both Decision Davidson and Scholars’
Weekend do a great job enticing prospective student and their
willing-to-pay parents. We are all on good behavior, attend-
ing Dance Ensemble, watching the Alpha and Kappa Pro-
bates and smiling at every person accompanied by a paren-
tal guardian. We put on a good show, Davidson, wining and
beering our prospies around campus. There is a point though
at which I have to ask—are we just a part of the Davidson
sales pitch? I will explain.

The Alpha Phi Alpha and Kappa Alpha Psi probates this
past weekend add to the allure of Davidson in a slightly mis-
leading way. As a prospective student way back in ’07 I re-
member walking to the Union for a snack and finding myself
at the Alpha Phi Alpha probate. “Wow,” I thought, “Davidson
really has a lot of diversity.” Little did I know that half the
group-consisted of Alphas from the neighboring UNC Char-
lotte campus. No one was very vocal about campus consist-
ing of only 14 percent “students of color” (as the Davidson
website so tactfully phrases it.)

The Alpha, Kappa and AKA probates are some of the most
engaging events on campus. These are organizations that are
deeply meaningful and constructively challenge their mem-
bers. When I watch, however, I’m disappointed that there
aren’t more interactive experiences like this on campus.

I feel the same way about Dance Ensemble. Here we have
an artistic and unique multi-cultural activity that Davidson
should be proud of, but we save it all for Decision Davidson
weekend. I wish as a student body that we did more perfor-
mances like this.

Then again maybe it’s not a matter of quantity of quality
performances that I want but the campus excitement and sup-
port surrounding them. I’ve never seen audiences respond so

yng setherrd

AW steer rheereggre. try rer teeter yorinf

strongly as they do at these events, which once again makes
me question whether or not theses are just another part of the
Decision Davidson ad campaign. “Look at all we have to of-
fer!” (it only happens once a year).

Obviously, these events do a good job of showcasing
campus culture, something that is rarely appreciated (or no-
table) on a daily basis. For instance, just recently a friend of
mine was giving a tour of Davidson to prospective students
and parents. The tour guide gave them the routinely quoted
ethnic break down of the Davidson student body, “We have
4 percent international students and 14 percent students of
color.” A bewildered mom asked instinctively, “And what’s
the rest?” There was no need for a response.

We are an overwhelmingly white campus. This is not
the issue though; lots of liberal arts campuses are primarily
white and yet they are able to provide more diversity. We are
a southern campus. This is not the issue because we have stu-
dents from across the United States here. The issue is that we
don’t have a lot of diversity in terms of socio-economic status
(an issue that is being addressed via the Davidson Trust), fa-
milial background and personality. Overall the student body
acts singularly. Granted, there are a few stand-out individu-
als, but for the most part we walk the same walk, talk the
same talk and work the same work. The polo shirts have to
go, guys, the North Face jackets all look the same and the
type-A personalities are hard to escape.

I’m not calling out these things to say that they are wrong
or something shameful. And it’s not the clothing itself but
the common attitude that it expresses—the personality that
always goes for the safe reliable education, job and lifestyle.

I would like to see more students initiating creative and pro-

gressive events like Dance Ensemble and greek probates. The
fact of the matter is though that as a campus we do ride a
similar wave. While I wish I could say we weren’t so homog-
enous—I can’t.

Admittedly, I am a part of Davidson’s ethnic great white
whale, but even so I was expecting a bit more culture from
my college experience than court parties every weekend. The
prospectives’ perspective is almost always idealized, why not
push the envelop and make it realized?

That. is what I think.

Kate Kelly ’ 11 is an English major. She is from Lexington,
Ky. Contact her at kakelly@davidson.edu.

t

Yr m4

nd lowe

ftems or

mote a a better. busines 5 climate,

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

LAY:

ef es

ring taxes to 0 incre z

The United States i is a nation conceived in liberty and_
e right to private property,

SE ie i ae:

intellectual product

: fesult of man’s: physical. and”
intellectual labor Private property can be income, physical:

13

‘The regulation of private property through tax sor ¢
pees ie a oie rillegitim:

‘greedy: to acquire property at conn and,

materialism are > forms of

of? “gov:

has already outlined and defined the ed Sule functions.
ernment, « coyine € g beyond _ those, «functions

as MO ha aee ae bgt

non However, an assaul

shod
