2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

-~—/>

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Monday night, the English department
sponsored a talk that departed dramatically
from the theoretical posturing expected at ad-
dresses like last month’s Connaroe Lecture.
Writer-in-residence Rona Munro related her
experiences “In Developing a Voice for an
Audience” over the span of her successful
25-year career.

Munro is currently serving as Davidson’s
McGee Visiting Professor of Writing, teach-
ing two creative courses on playwriting to
students eager to learn from her expertise af-
ter seeing her work with the RSC last year on
her new play, “Little Eagles.”

Students give unanimously good reviews
of the accessible, approachable professor.
“She’s an excellent teacher,” Brett Willis ‘10
said. “She really involves the students with
writing exercises, class interaction and a
great sense of humor.”

The talk was informal and charming,
with Munro bursting into laughter as she
read from her first play, “Fugue,” which she
claims was egregiously bad. The suspenseful
ghost story culminates in the revelation that
what happened in the woods on that fateful
night was, after all, the discovery of a dead
rabbit, and Munro replayed the scene for
Monday’s audience with great relish.

She recounted hearing a woman com-
plaining about the let-down in the bathroom
after the play and realizing how important it
was to trust her audience.

The driving force behind her play, she
explained, was a passionate fixation with

eee |

Playwright Rona Munro reflects on her

News

“fear and death! Fear and death! Fear! and
Death!”

She joked about her juvenile vaguery, ex-
plaining that it may have kept her from real-
izing the full potential of concrete, grounded

theatre that would have been more appealing”

to all audiences.

Munro reminded her Davidson audience
that they must, above all, trust their own re-
sponse to theatre, instead of worrying that
they are too uneducated or provincial to
understand what they are witnessing. The
playwright, she explained, is responsible for
a work’s accessibility.

Munro brought up the difficulties of writ- -

ing “guy talk” (only mastered after dating a
stand-up comedian) and the artistic pressure
of lofitily choosing what one would like to
write about next. Munro explained that the
process requires a mix of humility and nar-
cissism.

Munro read passages from one of her
other works as well, illustrating the wonder-
ful phenomenon that occurs when a play like
“Bold Girls” speaks powerfully to audience
across cultural boundaries, in many places in
various ways.

Munro explained that she had created an
unexpected communion with the audience
during the production, realizing for the first
time that the job of the playwright could be
to express on stage what viewers were unable
to voice for themselves.

Munro drew inspiration for the play from
late-night conversations with real women she
befriended while living in Northern Ireland.
She had not planned on breaking cultural ta-
boos in her frank description of the lives and

War journalist to speak

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Although the United States military has
made substantial progress in Iraq during the
last two years, the situation. in Afghanistan

has deteriorated steadily, with the resurgence,

of the Taliban, especially in remote tribal ar-
eas near the Pakistani border.

Dexter Filkins, a war correspondent for
The New York Times Magazine, has expe-
rienced many of these situations firsthand.
During 2002, Filkins was embedded with
combat troops in Afghanistan and received
a Pulitzer Prize nomination for his efforts
there. Starting in 2003, Filkins reported
about the Iraq War.

In Nov. 2004, he accompanied United
States Marines during eight days of combat
in Fallujah, calling it “the most sustained
period of street-to-street fighting that Ameri-
cans have encountered since the Vietnam
War.” During that week, Bravo Company, the
unit of 150 Marines with which Filkins was
embedded, suffered 6 dead and 30 wounded.

Mr. Filkins will speak in the 900 room
about his experiences reporting from the
front lines of war on Thursday, February 19
at 7:00 p.m.. His lecture is sponsored by the
Political Science Department. He recently
wrote “The Forever War,” which contains
his experiences covering the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

The Forever War has received numer-
ous accolades and positive reviews. The
New York Times named it as one of the top
five non-fiction books of the year because it
makes us see “the true human meaning and
consequences of the ‘war on terror.’”

According to Anthony Swofford, author
of Jarhead, “minute by minute war report-
ing doesn’t get any better than [The Forever
War].””

Filkins’s book of vignettes contains a
great variety; some of which are utterly dis-
turbing, while others are absurd or amusing.
The Forever War begins with an account of
a gruesome execution under the Taliban in

a Kabul soccer stadium during the 1990s.
The crowd, which includes mutilated war or-
phans, are brutalized and intimidated by the
torturing and killing that they witness.

As the book continues, Filkins, without
editorializing, takes the reader through a se-
ries of his experiences during the two wars.
In one episode, a marine escorting Filkins
to a photo opportunity is shot and killed in-
stantly.

In another, Iraqi soldiers become dis-
concerted when they see Filkins in running
shorts, “look[ing] at [my legs] in horror, as if
I were naked.” In a third episode in a Kabul
airport, women who wear both burkhas and
stylish shoes lament how their husbands are
devoted to jihad.

Filkins also has significant professional
and journalistic experience outside of war
correspondence. He helped the Miami Her-
ald win a Pulitzer Prize for its coverage of
Hurricane Andrew and its aftermath in 1992,
and later Filkins worked as the New Delhi
Bureau Chief for the Los-Angeles Times be-
fore moving to the New York Times, his cur-
rent employment, in 2000.

In 2004, Filkins received Long Island
University’s 2004 George Polk Award for
War Reporting. He spent the 2006-2007 aca-
demic year at Harvard as a Nieman fellow
and the 2007-2008 year as a fellow at the
Carr Center for Human Rights policy at the
Kennedy School of Government.

In 2008, Filkins returned to Iraq, where
he said that much progress had been made.
Many provinces, including the once violent
Anbar province, had been pacified as a re-
sult of American soldiers allying with tribal
sheikhs against Al Qaeda. However, Filkins
States that as of now, Iraq is not a democracy
because most of the institutions, such as po-
litical groups and newspapers, “are in their
infancy.”

Furthermore, he says that certain areas,
like Sadr City, the base of the Shiite Mahdi
army, are still unsafe. One of his Iraqi friends
told him that if he went out by himself in Sadr
City, he “would be dead in ten seconds.”

aoe Zi

age cre

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

audiences

Playwright Rona Munro works with Davidson students during her semester

_ as McGee Professor of Creative Writing this spring.

stories of these women, but after the play’s
opening night she found that the dynamic
of the audience had changed; men were curt
and minimally polite, while women excited-
ly whispered about what the production had
brought to light.

Munro concluded the discussion by field-
ing questions about the inspiration that led
her to become a writer, citing her childhood
imagination and the support of her parents
and family friends, and about the challenges
of working at the mercy of actors.

She explained that the creation and pro-
duction process is a two-way street, with

“= ais4|

2/2109 22:30 Other

2/3/09 19:35

2/5/09 14:59

the title to the vehicle.

2/6/09 12:02 Fire

Student slots have already been fille
ut community” “members can. still regi!
ter at. the: conference ‘website; availab
Abrough. the: Davidson College site, “Any
_questions or comments may be directed .

Information
A Davidson student advised the following information to the campus police. She
stated that several weeks back her bank had contacted her mother in reference to pos‘
sible fraudulent charges on their joint checking account.
were very odd. They were purchases of information on companies. To date they have
received delivery of a thousand blank business cards and a wedding photo of a family
unknown to them. She stated that she has heard rumors of the same thing happening to
a couple of other students (names unknown) on campus. She also stated there was no
indication the theft or use of her credit information took place at Davidson College.

Assist motorist
A Davidson student arrived at the Campus Police Department requesting help starting
her vehicle. The Officer advised the student to contact the North Carolina Department
of Motor Vehicles, because she did not have a registration for the vehicle, the 30 day tag
was well expired and the last inspection was in November 2007. The student did have

Officer was dispatched by communications to the Phi Delt House in reference to assist-
ing the fire department with an alarm. Upon arrival, the reporting officer met with fire
personnel who advised the cause of the alarm was from a food warmer in the kitchen. A
pan of chili had been placed in the bottom level and a small portion had run down onto
the element. The alarm was reset. The fire dept. advised they had called the Fire Mar-
shall due to paper being hung on all the walls, which was a fire hazard.

both writers and actors depending on the
other to bring their efforts to fruition. “And I
like when they say thank you,” she added.

When asked about how a writer creates an
original and effective narrative climax, Mu-
nro admitted that she was stumped, laughing
that if she knew, she’d be doing it every day.
“Tt can’t be a dead rabbit,” she concluded.

“The lecutre Monday night was amzing
and made you feel like you know Profes-
sor Munro,” Kate Kelly ’11, one of Munro’s
playwriting students, said.

“But you just have to know that Rona
herself is amazing.”

DO LOLIER!

Duke Dormitory

The officer received a call on the officer’s cell phone. The caller, wishing to remain
anonymous, reported the smell of smoke coming from Duke. When asked what type of
smoke the caller would not say. Upon arrival, the officers detected an odd smell outside
of a room. The officer inquired about the cigarette smell within the room. One student
advised that she smoked butonly outside. Officers observed nothing that indicated a
need for the fire department. At 23:56 the officer received a call from Duke inquiring
about the earlier call. The caller also wanted to report an odd smell in her room. When
asked if she could describe the smell she stated it smells like paper burning. The Physi-
cal Plant indicated it as most likely maintenance or repair issue.

Public Safety

She stated that the charges

Campus Police

Patterson Court

CORRECTION S

The Feb. 4 article “RLO to renovate
Cannon” incorrectly stated that Cannon
Dorm will be renovated this summer.
While the Cannon is slated for the next
dorm renovation project, the timing of
the update remains uncertain:

