4 THe DavIpSONIAN

me: ~iie ee

NeEws

—eSeE 6 =

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Film challenges audience to consider Charlottes’s future

~Katre Lovett
Staff Writer

Charlotte finds itself at a crossroads with
a population that is rapidly growing more
diverse. Crossroads Charlotte is an initia-
tive that took root after a 2001 survey of 40
U.S. communities revealed that although
Charlotte-Mecklenburg has high levels of
faith-based involvement and philanthropic
activity, the levels of social and interracial
trust in the area are quite low. In 2000, 64%
of Mecklenburg County’s population was
white, and this percentage decreased to 60%
by 2006. Studies predict that by 2015, whites
will compose only a little over half of the
county’s population.

These changing demographics increase
the need to focus on creating trust between
people of different races and ethnicities in
order to steer Charlotte towards a positive
future. Crossroads Charlotte, funded primar-
ily by the John S. and James L. Knight Foun-
dation, as well as the Wachovia Foundation
and Foundation for the Carolinas, produced
“Crossroads Charlotte: The Movie” in order
to facilitate discussion of the issues of ac-
cess, equity, inclusion, and trust and to create
a community response.

On Tuesday, Feb. 3, Davidson College
provided one of the viewing locations for the
world premiere of the “Crossroads Charlotte”
film. The crowd, which consisted of a diverse
group of primarily Davidson, Cornelius and
Huntersville residents, gathered in the Lilly
Gallery and was electronically linked with
five other locations including the University
of North Carolina at Charlotte, Johnson C.
Smith University, the Charlotte Museum of
History, Epicenter Theatres and the Ballant-
yne Village Theatre.

The program began with a welcome from
Foundation for the Carolinas President and
CEO Michael Marsicano, who emphasized
that “now is the time for us all to create the

tomorrow that we want.”

Set in the year 2015, the “Cross-
roads Charlotte” film consists of four stories:
“Fortress Charlotte,” “Class Act,” “The Beat
Goes On” and “Eye to Eye.” These stories
present four possible scenarios for the future
of the Charlotte community.

“Fortress Charlotte” depicts a Charlotte
suffering immensely from a faltering econ-
omy, with a chasm widening between the
“haves” and the “have-less.” This segment of
the film includes a drive-by shooting that is
a result of conflict between different ethnic
groups, a widening gap between public and
private school test scores, and an unemploy-
ment rate that has reached an all-time high.
By far the bleakest of the four stories, “For-
tress Charlotte” outlines the consequences of
a divided community and the ramifications
of this interracial distrust.

At the opposite end of the spectrum,
“Class Act” portrays a community enjoying
a thriving economy, an abundance of jobs, a
soaring housing market and booming tourist
attractions. This portion of the movie empha-
sizes that Charlotte’s success has stemmed
from the positive influence of a new, diverse
group of people outside of the traditional
white corporate powerbase.

Although the old patterns of racial, eth-
nic, and social divisions retain a small role,
the public school test scores have risen sub-
stantially, and Charlotte is ranked as a Top
Ten city. Characters in this segment of the
film quote Gandhi’s “be the change you wish
to see in the world” and encourage one an-
other to see the world through others’ eyes.

“The Beat Goes On” shows a Charlotte
that appears to be thriving with its abundance
of professional sports, banks, museums and
theatres. Simmering under the surface, how-
ever, is growing anger, resentment and dis-
trust among people of different racial and
ethnic backgrounds and between those of
different economic standings.

Featuring a juxtaposition of the situa-
tions of a prosperous upper-middle class
white mother and son and a homeless Afri-
can American mother and son struggling to
make ends meet, this segment of the movie
highlights the fact that race relations contin-
ue to walk on uneven ground. The privileged
people who have always had the power and
made the decisions continue to exert influ-
ence and authority over people of color and
residents with modest and low incomes.

The final possible future for Charlotte
presented in the film, “Eye to Eye,” con-
structs a city that is booming due to a vigor-
ous economy and an influx of talented and
diverse people. With a decreasing crime rate
and the possibility of hosting the 2004 Olym-
pics, Charlotte has a reputation for being an
open, tolerant, and trusting community that
welcomes diversity. In this Charlotte of the

A screeing of “Crossroads Charlotte” at Johnson C. Smith University.

future, diversity is the rule, not the excep-
tion.

Crossroads Charlotte seeks to pro-
mote community involvement and awareness
of the changing demographics in Charlotte-
Mecklenburg. Over forty organizations, in-
cluding AT&T, Bank of America, The Char-
lotte Observer, Catawba Lands Conservancy,
and YMCA are involved in promoting orga-
nization’s ideals.

The four “Crossroads Charlotte” stories
seek to answer the question, “What course
will Charlotte-Mecklenburg chart for all its
residents over the next 10 years as we deal
with issues of access, equity, inclusion and
trust in the social, political, economic and
cultural life of the community?” The organi-
zation emphasizes that from this crossroads,
the choices we make and actions we take to-
day will create our tomorrow.

Woodenfish encourages students to find their zen

Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Two Davidson students travelled to
southern Taiwan last summer to participate
in a program focusing on Buddhism and Chi-
nese culture. The Woodenfish Program takes
place over the course of one month in the Fo
Guang Shan Monastery outside the southern
Taiwanese city of Kaohsiung. The program
pays for the cost of room and board, with
program participants responsible for cover-
ing travel costs.

This coming summer, the program will
run from Jun. 16 —Jul. 15. Applications are
due March 23. Although the program is rec-
ommended for students studying Buddhism,
non-religion majors are encouraged to apply.

According to former program partici-
pant Kelly Beggs ’09, the program organiz-
ers “want Western students to be exposed to
their lifestyle so they understand it.”

This particular monastery is not typical
of Buddhist organizations. Rather, Fo Guan
Shan is one of the few Buddhist groups en-
gaged in a more socially involved approach
to teaching the religion.

According to Assistant Professor of Re-
ligion Hun Lye, “Fo Guan Shan is a very in-
novative organization in that it’s one of the
first Buddhist organizations that has made an
impact beyond the local area.”

Lye, who has advised the group’s or-
ganizer on Woodenfish’s development and
recruiting, said that the monastery’s way of
teaching is very different from that of tradi-
tional monasteries. Fo Guan Shan is much
more engaged in contemporary life in the
surrounding area of Taiwan. Still, despite the

monastery’s progressiveness, Western stu-
dents often find life at Fo Guan Shan radi-
cally different from what they’re accustomed
to.

The program may challenge the students,
but, according to Beggs, the different dis-
cipline was used to “keep yourself always
aware of what you are doing and to avoid the
auto-pilot experience.”

During the weeks spent at the monas-
tery, Beggs and Bennett Smith ’09 lived a
very disciplined lifestyle, which consisted of
wearing a uniform, waking up at 5:30 a.m. to
the sound of bangs on a wooden board, silent
meals, Buddhism classes and community
service for the monastery.

Classes were run very differently from
typical Western classes. At the beginning of
class, when the professor entered the room,
students would stand, bow and show a sign
of respect. Learning was based on repetition
rather than class discussion, and students
were strongly discouraged from questioning
the teacher.

For meals, the way students would eat
was based on certain rules. That kind of rou-
tine may sound constricting, but Smith called
it a different kind of freedom.

“You have freedom of discipline — hav-
ing to order your life. Individual autonomy
is gone, but you learn the lessons of Bud-
dhism,” he said. Silence was often the most
challenging part of the program for most
participants, especially during a one-week
retreat in which no one could speak and stu-
dents meditated for five hours a day. Two
non-Davidson students left the program be-
cause it was too difficult.

“Tt’s very challenging for sure, but you

learn that some of the things you say are un-
necessary or negative. You learn what you
need to say. It’s really rewarding in that es-
pecially in Western culture we live in a very
noise- driven society,” Beggs said.

ROR MERUREE 5... “EE ear as

Show, from page

nayssge

Show’s sudden increase-in. funding within. .

the past year. The show received aproxi-
mately $30,000 for renovation of studio
facilities and the purchase. of’ additional
-technical equipment, Once this information,
: ‘was made. publie, many. “students began to :
question how necessary this funding was.

and, £ more specifi ally» where it was coming .

Vd really hate for people fo think that

“getting $30,000 just-to make fart.

-jokes,”. the show’s executive producer and.
founder Austin Befl 710 said,."We're ereat=
ing an institution ‘that brings the community’ »
together” 3.4

‘the Davidson Show and the remainder of the ”
$30,000 came from President Ross, Of the
“amount received from ATC. approximately «
$4,000 was used for facility renovation and

geo The space is pretty rockin’; ” "Bell said.
“It’s basically the difference between a few”
kids shooting stuff i in their dorm rooms and «

ATY show.” Pee

equipment. .

oa

as a safe home for the show’s new equip
ment. The crew has yet to decide on a name.
for their new studio, but is flirting with the.

_ Sustainable and entertaining . production,

‘ahalf ago if we had a student video pro-.

: _ fil-a, in the 900 Room, have become a sta~
@ Officially, the ATC allocated $23, 000 for *

While Smith said that it was certainly
extremely difficult, he never thought about
quitting. “It demands more concentration
than I had ever done. At the end, you realize
you’ ve been through something,” he said.
seasons, In addition, the studio functions”

name-“Catcave2) 7
ewe re definitely evolving into a more’

which I think‘is: a Teally positive thing for.
the college community as a whole,” Bell’
said; “If you had asked anyone.a ‘year and”

duction company on campus, they probabl
would have laughed at you.” :
“No one is laughing now, as the 10: 00
p.m. Monday night Davidson Show pre~.
mieres, often accompanied by free Chic

ple in the routines of students from all ends _

ff

“of the spectrum. | ee ee

“<The Davidson Show « crew plans to hold.
- an open house for all parties interested in |
» seeing the new studio and will announce
$19,000 for purchasing necessary t technical | :

Bs Addit in the Crier or on the show. ....”
» Additionally, Bell said, “1 think every,

; one’s pretty pumped about season three be=_ :
 eause of the new space, equipment and cast,

“we have” but insisted, “we’re always look-._
ing for new talent, ideas, or r just s su rggestions :
for the show.“
