10 THe DAvmsontIAN

McKillop, from page 12

community—the professors, the staff, the
students, the alums, the townspeople. Un-

precedented levels of support making us feel.

so wanted and so welcome and so supported.
. Giving us inspiration, affirmation, a boost in
our energy. To think that could happen here
on our campus is the unfolding of a dream I
had 20 years ago. To live it has been an expe-
rience that I’ll cherish forever.

The disappointment I have in this year is
a disappointment I have for our guys in how
hard they worked and how despite winning
27 games they never got to that point that
was such a part of our experience last year.
And I’m disappointed for them not disap-
pointed at all in them. Their work ethic was
without parallel. Their commitment to do it
the right way was incredible. And they gave
everything they could.

Everywhere we travelled, people were
hiding behind pillars looking for autographs,
greeting our bus trying to get pictures. We
never had that kind of experience before. And
our guys handled it with poise, they handled
it with maturity, grace, humility. But it takes
its toll on you.

D: As the team leader, how do try to
manage all that attention and how do you
try to make it easier on your guys, the
emotionally taxing aspect?

CM: You address it candidly. You con-
front it head-on. You can’t hide from it be-
cause there is no hiding from it. You turn on
the TV, you turn on the computer, you walk
into town, and someone is going to say some-
thing or someone is wearing a shirt.

There was no frustration whatsoever,
but our players had an awareness. And the
awareness builds on you and it was a first-
time experience for them. It was a first-time
experiences for me as a coach. It made us a
stronger, yet sometimes your strength comes
from your weakness.

D: Has this been your most challenging
season?

CM: When you say challenging some-.

times you want to say difficult. This was. not
a difficult season at all. A challenging season
is when you’re looking at the fourth year of
your contract and you haven’t had a .500 re-
cord. This was challenge of a different kind.
It was like playing the best schedule you’ ve
ever played in which every game was a big-
time opponent. That doesn’t make it a diffi-
cult season. But the challenge of every game
was there.

D: It seemed like almost every game

SPORTS

—

¢

this season sold out. Is that something Da-
vidson can sustain moving forward?

CM: I have great optimism that this pro-
gram is on very sound footing. I also have
great optimism that what we have accom-
plished had been a process and the process
continues. The excitement that has been gen-
erated this year was the result of, yes our elite
8 run, but it’s also the result of years and years
if work by teams of the past. I have a sense
that a love affair has developed between the
way our guys play, the way our guys act, the
way our guys represent the program, and the
community of supporters we have.

D: Some have described the incoming
described the incoming recruiting class as
your best ever. What can we expect from
this group and are currently pursuing any
additional scholarship players?

CM: The recruits that we have signed are
all very skilled, they all have a high work
ethic, they all fit the profile of the typical
Davidson and they want to be here. They’re
coming into a program that has one 27, 29
and 29 games. So it’s going to be challeng-
ing for them to make an immediate impact.
Do they have the capability of doing that? I
certainly believe they do. They’re very tal-
ented and I think they answer a lot of needs
to continue to move our program forward.
Programs become great when you have class
after class with one or two or three players
that are strong building blocks. And I think
these guys are going to be very strong build-
ing blocks in our program.

D: Is there going to be a fourth?

CM: There is a good chance there could
be a fourth, yes.

D: What was the atmosphere like in
McKeon Pavilion?

CM: It was a court very similar to what
Johnson Gym was. Chairs were set up along
the baseline to accommodate the overflow
crowd. We walked through a lobby filled with
fans to get to the locker room. Every seat was
occupied. People were hanging from the raf-
ters. It was a very decisive home-court situ-
ation for St. Mary’s. A very raucous atmo-
sphere. The game was played at a very fast
pace—and that fed the energy of the crowd.
It was high intensity from opening tip until
the end of the game.

D: Can you comment at all on Frank
Ben-Eze’s injury?

CM: Frank was going through a process
of getting better and better as the year pro-
gressed. He was playing his best basketball
in the conference tournament. That was af-
ter coins ilies rehabilitation for his first

Baseball Golf Men’s Tennis
(10-12, 5-4) (5-13, 1-6)
Results:
Results: 4/3-4/4 Marshall Invitational Results:
4/3 @ Samford L 4-6 13th Place 4/1 vs. #66 Elon L0-7
4/4 @ Samford W 10-9 4/4 @ CofC L 2-5
4/4 @ Samford W 4-1 Next Up: 4/5 @ Ga. Southern L 1-6

4/13-4/14 Palisades Invitational

Next Up: Charlotte, N.C. Next Up:
4/8 vs. Gardner-Webb 4/8 vs. Wofford
4/10-4/12 vs. The Citadel Notes: 4/10 vs. Charlotte

Jackson Taylor ’12 led the ’Cats
with a three-day tournament
score of 221 (+8) to earn a 25th
place individual finish in the
Marshall Invitational.

Notes:

Following Saturday’s double-
header sweep at Samford, the
Wildcats have already matched
last year’s win total of 12.

4/11 @ the Citadel
Notes:

Wildcats’ lone point at No. 2

singles in Sunday’s loss at Ga.

Southern.

Walker Lyons ’11 recorded the

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

Coach McKillop and crew celebrate last year’s scond round NCAA tournament vic-
tory over Georgetown at the RBC center in Raleigh. McKillop says the attention the
team has received since the Elite 8 run has been a new experience for the program.

three months here on campus and not being
immersed in the early stages of practice and
being a Freshman, that’s always a big chal-
lenge. His progress was superb. Then he
caught a pass, and went up for a shot. The
guy tried to avoid fouling him and brushed
him. The brush threw him off balance and he
landed awkwardly on his right leg. He just
had surgery two weeks ago. We expect him
to be fully recovered prior to the opening
game next year.

In an email after the interview Coach
McKillop expressed the following thoughts
on the results of the 2008-09 season.

We set the bar very high, and in our pur-
suit of excellence, we weren’t able to grab the
golden ring. Yet, we did accomplish much.
We were 1 of 23 teams who won 27 games.
We had the 15th best winning percentage in
the country. We beat teams from the Big East,
ACC and SEC. We attracted record crowds at
Belk Arena and on the road. We played and
won on the great stage of Madison Square
Garden. We had a 1st Team All American and
Conference Player of the Year in Stephen, an
All-Conference Player in Andrew and Max
was the Conference Defensive Player of the
Year. The roses may not be as sweet as last
year, but there are still roses to smell.

’Cats finish 13th at Marshall Invitational

PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The Men’s golf team came into this
weekend’s tournament, the Marshall Invita-
tional, having come off of a rain shortened
36-hole event, the Furman Intercollegiate,
in which they finished in a tie for 15th. This
past weekend, the Wildcats traveled to Hun-
tington, W.V. for a 54-hole tournament. Pro-
gressively getting better with each round, the
Wildcats as a team had rounds ‘of 313, 299,
and 297 on the 6,481 yard Par 71 course.

Individually, Jackson Taylor ’12, a fresh-
man who has had a very solid rookie year,
took top honors for the Wildcats. He posted a
three day total of 221 (t-25). Just as the team
improved with each round, so did Michael

| Saari ‘09, who fired rounds of 79-77-72 to

shoot a total of 228 which earned him t-52
overall.
Also in with a total of 228, Chris Roll-

‘ins ’11 fired rounds of 76-80-72. Rounding

out the five man roster for the Wildcats were

Bobby Urso ’11 and David Fowler, ’09. Urso
tied for the team low round with a 72 in the
second round. Also firing one-over 72 were
Saari (final round) and Rollins (final round).

The University of Iinois took home the
team title with a three day total of 855. They
won handily, with Xavier University and Ball
State University finishing in a tie for second
place fourteen shots behind the Fighting I]-
lini. Rounding out the top five team scores
were William and. Mary (880) and DePaul
University (882).

With a tournament low round of 66, Il-
linois’ Zach Barlow was propelled to the
Individual Championship: He turned in a
three-day score of 211. Xavier’s Sebastian
MacLean finished one shot back with 212
strokes. Rounding out the top five individu-
als were: Alberto Fernandez (Univ. of Cin-
cinnati — 214), and a four-way tie for fourth
at 215 The Wildcats hope to continue solid
performances when they co-host the Pali-
sades. Collegiate in Charlotte, N.C. on April
13-14.

‘Lacrosse Track an Field Women’s Tennis
(5-6) (10-10, 5-3)
Results
Results: 4/3 Duke Invitational Results
4/4 @ Navy L6-13 4/4 Liberty Collegiate 4/1 vs. UNCG L 2-5
Invitational 4/3 vs. Charlotte L 3-4
. Next Up: 4/7 vs. App. State W 7-0
4/12 @ American Next Up:

4/17 vs. Stanford
4/19 vs. Duke

Notes:

Jenna Mugele ’12 and Anna
Smith ’12 each scored two
goals in Saturday’s loss at

Navy.

4/11 Joe Hilton UNC Invitational

Next Up:
4/10 vs. Elon
4/18 vs. Furman

Notes:
Kim Colley ’09 broke her own
school record in the 100 meters
with a time of 12.57 on her way
to a fifth place finish at the Lib-
erty Collegiate Invitational.

Notes:

The Wildcats bounced back with
an impressive victory over the
Mountaineers on Tuesday and

hope to continue their strong

play.
