THE DAVIDSONIAN

ee, ee

Economy, from page I

schools are now concerned that they will not
be able to fill their enrollments next year.
Public schools are also preparing layoffs and
substantial budget cuts. At end of last year,
the University of Florida dismissed 430 fac-
ulty and staff, and the school plans to reduce
its overall budget by 10 percent in the com-
ing fiscal year.

The shrinking economy has also affected
the school’s capacity to raise money. The
alumni giving participation rate in Decem-
ber, a popular time to donate, fell by only
one percent compared with the same month
in 2007, while the total sum of gifts dropped
3.6 percent. “The alumni are still committed
to the institution,” Vice President of Business
and Finance Karen Goldstein said. “But they
are feeling the pain of the economy, and the
size of their gifts seems to be down.”

The slight reduction in fundraising should
not severely affect Davidson’s operating
budget and the school has no major plans for
capital-intensive construction projects.

“With completion of the capital campaign
with Bobby Vagt over in 2006, this past sum-
mer was the end of our big building boom,”
Goldstein said.

Davidson enjoys one of the highest rates
of alumni giving in the country: 60 percent of
all alumni give back to Davidson. Only one
percent of the American colleges exceed 50
percent giving rate.

“Because of the four year experience
students have at Davidson, [alums] leave for
the most part feeling like Davidson is one of
those places that is important to them,” Vice
President of College Relations Eileen Keeley
said. Keeley is concerned about minimizing
the reduction in giving but is optimistic that
any drop will not significantly impact the
College. “It looks like we will be short, but
not so short that it is a problem for the col-

News

lege,” she said.

Fundraising will carry particular import
in the coming years as the school looks to
fund the Davidson Trust, established in 2007.
Initially funded by a $10 million grant from
the Duke Endowment, The Davidson Trust
commits to replacing loans with grants in all
financial aid packages, hoping to free stu-
dents of financial burdens upon graduation.

Since the Davidson Trust’s creation, the
school has seen an uptick of the number of
students on financial aid. Before 2008, 33
percent of students received financial aid.
But now 42 percent of the Class of 2012 re-
ceives need-based aid raising the overall rate
to 35.

Furthermore, Davidson is seeing an in-
crease in applications for the class of 2013
unlike many private school peers. As a re-
sult, some are concerned about the challeng-
es of funding the trust.

“You can’t do something like this and pull
back on it,” Dean of Admissions and Finan-
cial Aid Chris Gruber said. “ The trustees are
committed to this and knew what this would
cost; they did it because it was the right thing
for Davidson. What they did not know was
what the economy was going to do.”

The school eventually plans an estimated
$125 million capital campaign to raise funds
for the Davidson Trust. When it does, it will
take new strategies for asking alumni, founda-
tions and some local corporations for funds.
Goldstein is hopeful that when the campaign
does begin, members of the Davidson com-
mittee will contribute vigorously.

“We have good fundraising people, very
committed trustees and very loyal alums,”
she said. “For the moment, all we can do is
make the assumption that we are going to
raise it.” The College plans to fund the Trust
entirely through gifts, without any effect on
the school’s budget.

Davidson finds itself in a fortunate posi-

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009 3

" . ee ~ 2 eee

tion in terms of service payments on its debt.
The school’s $36 million debt of is less than
10 percent of the endowment. Many other
institutions carry debt equaling over 20 per-
cent of their endowments, and thus incur
larger expenses.

The school is now planning for a 30 per-
cent reduction in the endowment next year,
and has not yet hit that number. Davidson
has sufficient funds to support 42 percent

‘live next fall2z If so, you just might want to’

reconsider that choice, because several exe,

citing new refurbishments have been slated ”

for the near future. This summer, the school »
has decided to. completely renovate. Can-’

non Residence-Hall to join in the ranks ol
other recently revamped residence halls, lik
‘Watts and Richardson.»

Martin Court will be receiving new heatin.
ventilating, ‘and air conditioning systems.
» Following »those, refurbishments, : D:
‘vidson also plans" to. renovate Sentelle i

2010, ‘After that, ‘only, “Irwin, “Akers and. LC

80

Knox ould beon the docket since all other,

ea which waldtigs need renovation:

a
EET ia ei i Si BT NCIS

Green from page 1

plained.

The theme of the lecture series, the global
energy challenge, “really captures the spirit
of our liberal arts education,” Director of
Dean Rusk International Studies Program
Chris Alexander remarked, “because it is not
tied to any one field of study. It is interdisci-
plinary and relevant to every student.”

“This project is wider in scope than any-
thing the Bank of America conference has
entailed before,’ McDermott commented.
“We are excited to see what students come
up with.”

The student-led committee organizing
the conference is still discussing the specif-
ics of its academic aspects. An interdisciplin-
ary seminar is presently the most compelling

1/26/2009 15:30

: Additionally, Tomlinson Dorm will be “
‘updated. with new: paint and carpetsy and ve

Suspicious Persons

financial need next year, and perhaps even
more. The 2010-11 fiscal year is a different
story, aS more money needs to be raised for
The Davidson Trust to manage expenses.

“I’d like to think that we’ve been good
stewards of the resources available to us,”
Gruber said. “Today we are better stewards
to support the mission of the college, saying
yes, this is a need; this is how we should be
spending.”

LOLA EE oe ROR mee ee Bo

» are based on a physical plant assessment re-

; = » - garding what building has the most founda-.
Do you 1 already know where you want to;
“what buildings have not been renovated in

_ tional and structural work needed to be done,

some time,.and what buildings will cost us
' significantly more money, to repair if. we
continue to defer maintenance?” :
¢ With the current troubling economy, Da:
vidson College’s economic status plays an
enormous role.in determining both the num-
ber of buildings that can actually be reno~
vated and what restorations can be done.’ In
“some respects, deciding what renovations: to
undertake is like taking a huge gambl
“Tf Davidson took on, two. major con.
struction, projects this summer by tenovat-
ing both Cannon and Sentelle, instead of just.
‘Tenovating Cannon, and another devastating
-economic crisis hit, the school could be. in,

times of such i immense financial uncertai
RLQ has.a tough job on their hands,

idea.

As Professor Alexander elaborated, “stu-
dents could approach this energy crisis from
the physical sciences, the humanities or the
social sciences. The point is to connect what
students do inside the classroom to what they
do outside.”

Whether student papers resulting from
research on energy issues will be compiled
into a publication, a symposium, a debate
forum or all of the above is still under dis-
cussion. What is certain is that Dean Rusk
SAC encourages as much student participa-
tion and engagement as it can rally to make
the conference a real success.

For more information on the Conference
or related initiatives, contact Dr. Chris Alex-
ander, Larissa Hohe, Christoph Pross, Caro-
line McDermott or Justin Eusebio.

OTTER

Knobloch Campus Center

Officer received two phone calls on the officer cell phone in reference to two male

subjects passing out business flyers in the vicinity of the Knobloch Center. Of-
ficer observed two male subjects in the Knobloch Center with flyers in hand. Offi-
cer told the two subjects to leave campus immediately and not to return or they
would face trespass charges. They were passing out Skate Boutique advertisement.

1/28/2009 08:44 Fire Library

Officer received a call advising that the Library had smoke and the odor of something
burning on the first floor. The reporting officer responded and met with Davidson Fire
Dept. personnel who advised the alarm was coming from the ground floor. Fire personnel
checked the area but was unable to locate the source of the smell. The reporting officer
contacted the Physical Plant and requested assistance. By the time the Physical Plant ar-
rived the odor of something burning was gone. No damage was done or injuries incurred.

1/31/2009 18:04 Other 100 Ridge Rd.

Officer received a call on the officer cell phone in reference to student drinking alcohol at
Five Acre Field, 100 Ridge Rd. Reporting officer arrived on scene and observed a group
of students standing around a cooler with beer inside it. Reporting officer asked the group
of students whom the cooler belonged to, and no one responded. Reporting officer seized
the cooler and emptied each beverage container of the beer inside. Reporting officer re-
minded the group of student that alcoholic beverages may not be used, sold, possessed
or consumed at all Davidson College sporting events, including intramural and club.

1/31/2009 21:35 Other Baker Sports Center
Officer observed a Chrysler Sebring with the trunk open parked at the Baker Sports
Center, 200 Baker Dr. Inside the trunk was a purse and several pairs of shoes. Report-
ing officers secured the trunk and verified that all vehicle doors were locked. Reporting
officers did not observe any forced entry into the trunk area or into the passenger com-
partment of the vehicle.

