10 Tre DavipsoniAN

——yE |
Jobs, from page 5

opportunities.

Devin Haddad ’10, a neuroscience major,
has opted to remain on campus this summer
for research. “I will be working in Dr.
Ramirez’s Neuroscience lab this summer,” he
said. “We perform surgeries on rats to create
an animal model for Alzheimer’s disease.”

Of course, there’s always CraigsList.
Search in your city’s job section for a variety
of positions available for the summer. From
internships with Greenpeace to intense
summer experiences in software data labs
(some offering rewards of $5,000), you’re
more than likely to find something that works
for you. Even at the last minute, job searching
for the summer can pay off in terms of salary
and invaluable experience.

Arts & LIVING
Dance Ensemble soundtrack

Monique McInTOsH
Staff Writer

‘It’s not surprising that the same decade
that gave birth to Davidson’s Dance Ensemble
also produced another music and dance
milieu known as MTV. There is something
irresistible about moving bodies, flashing
lights and familiar lyrics.

For those audience members who were
distracted from the Ensemble’s dancing this
past weekend by the wide variety of music,
this survey of Dance Ensemble’s song
choices is dedicated to you.

Nothing makes me more sad and nostalgic

Summer break provides a perfect oppurtunity for students to explore career op-
tions such as teaching. Questions? See Career Services.

for the Rugrat years than Aaliyah. She was the
first R&B sweetheart for many 90s babies,
with her sweet, sincere voice, pimping
gangsta pants and seriously asymmetrical
hair parting, :

The dance “We Needed Somebody To
Try Again”, choreographed by Erica Wallace
710 and Shantay Mobley ’10, resurrected
some of Aaliyah’s last successful songs. “Try
Again,” “We Need a Resolution and “Are
You That Somebody.”

The famous “Moulin Rouge!” cover of
“Roxanne,” a 1980s classic by The Police,
set the backdrop for a sexy tango with black
lace and deadly heels, arranged by The
Havana Social Club and Davidson students
Cristina Casal ’12 and Patrick Whitman °11.
Jacek Koman’s sandpaper ‘holler and Ewan
McGregor’s angelic tone make this song a
pop-operatic favorite.

Jessica Gallegos ’11 choreographed the

’ Salsa number to the infectious “Arranca en

Fa” .by Sonora Carruseles, whose pulsating
base adding more daring to the twists and lifts.
A mambo remix of the Pink Panther theme
by Henry Mancini highlighted the hidden sex
appeal of a childhood-soundtrack.

The only memorable cover of a Beatles’
classic, T.V. Carpio’s interpretation of “I
Wanna Hold Your Hand” from the movie
“Across The Universe,” brought out a hidden
desperation and longing. The dance “Want,”
arranged by Stephanie Vertongen °10, plays
on this newfound vulnerability. This year’s
swing dance also incorporated campus a
capella group Androgyny, who lent their
version of the Beach Boys’ “I get around.”
What a perfect pairing: a student-led singing
group in a student-led show.

There were some rather unexpected

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

musical choices as well. The Davidson West
African drumming group brought live music
onstage during a traditional Fante Dance
from Ghana, choreographed by Jenny Geyer
’09 and Sarah Bennett ’10. They performed
behind the dancers and punctuated the
performance with their own impressive
solos.

Speaking of live music, this year’s Dance
Ensemble featured its first ever Haka dance,
a style that originates from the indigenous
Maori culture of New Zealand. Davidson
students performed a Haka myth called
“Paikea.” This musical arrangement left
audience members cowering in their seats,
slightly terrified of a group of normally
demure Davidson guys shouting at the tops
of their lungs, while wearing nothing but
swimming trunks.

Missy Elliot ruled the night, as her songs
“Let it Bump,” “On and On,” “Gossip Folks”
and “Bad Man” were featured in three dances.
Dancehall group Vybz Cartel’s “Move If you
Wanna,” a perfect soundtrack for practicing
the latest dancehall moves, made a brief
appearance as well.

Britney Spears’ “Circus” may appear
difficult to belly dance to, but the dance
choreographed by Sarah Adams °10 proved
otherwise.

“Fierce,” a dance choreographed by
Angelina E. Darrisaw ’09 and Ashley N.
Mincey ’09, also broke down Beyoncé’s
intricate moves from the “Single Ladies”
video.

Finally, the infectious “Slumdog
Millionaire” song “Jai Ho” was used for the
senior dance. The sequence’s Bollywood
tinged rhythms ended a full night of dance
and music.

Students & Facully
Save 10% Everyday.

Healthy eating can better prepare you for the challenges of
learning and teaching. That is why Healthy Home Market offers
a 10% discount to Davidson faculty and students. Just show your

ID card and save 10% everyday.

¢ Health & Special Diet Foods

¢ Organic Produce & Meats

¢ Area’s Largest Selection Of
Name Brand Vitamins and
Nutritional Supplements.

¢ Bulk Foods (Nuts, Fruits,
Mixes, & More)

* Gluten-Free Food Products

® Natural Deli with Wi-Fi.

e Specialty Beer & Wine.

FBIEST BEST HEALTH
CHARLOT%; FOOD MARKET

261 Griffith Street ¢ 704.892-6191
www. HEMARKET.com

