THE DAVIDSONIAN

1 pm: Take Back the
Night, Lilly Gallery

7:30 pm: “Sabbath
Environmentalism”
lecture by Norman
Wirzba, Sprinkle Rm

8 pm: Film Festival:
“Yes Man,” Belk Lawn

10 pm: Davidson
Outdoors spon-

sors “Into the Wild
screening, 900 Room

11 pm: Outpost Trivia
Night, TV Show theme

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, AprIL 1, 2009

Thur. 4/2
10:30-3 pm: Health Fair, 6 pm: April at the
Union Atrium Lake: Luau, Lake

4:30 pm: “Death, De-
struction and teh Af-
terlife” lecture by Eric
Olson, Chambers 3155

7:30 pm: “Company,”
Duke Performance Hall

8 pm: Film Festival:
“Twilight,” Belk Lawn

10 pm: Live Thursdays,
Waylen Roche and Matt

Hayes, 900 Room

Carey LEIGH EvANS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College French
Department hosts The Tournées Festival this
week, a program provided by the French
American Cultural Exchange (FACE) that
brings contemporary French cinema to
college campuses. This festival began on
the Davidson campus on Monday and will

continue until Sunday April 5th.

The _Tournées’ Festival accepts
applications from numerous campuses and
awards grants to the winners. Every year the
FACE awards roughly $180,000 in grants.
Davidson College received funds to show
six films and host one round table discussion.
This is the first time Davidson has received
the honor to host this prestigious festival.
Davidson French Department professor
and contact for the event, Dr. Caroline
Beschea-Fache, opened the week of films
on Monday in the 900 Room. Following her
introduction was a screening of “Le Grand
Voyage,” released in 2004.

Though numerous films were released
this year, FACE also offers an alternative list
with earlier choices. As it is Davidson first
year to host, the Davidson College French
Department, Ethnic Studies Program and the
French Club chose a variety of films from the
past several years with the hopes of providing
a diverse selection.

Tonight, in CHAM 3155 at 7pm, the
festival will continue with a showing of “Lili
et le Baobab,” released in 2006.

“Lili, a thirty-three-year-old French
photographer, accepts an assignment to
photograph the remote village of Agman, in
the Senegalese desert. It is the first time she
has set foot in Africa.”

Tomorrow, Dr. David Pettersen will
introduce the screening of “Faat Kine,” a
2001 release, in Hance Auditorium at 7 pm.
This film was produced in both the languages
of Wolof and French. “When Kine, a gas-
station manager in present-day Senegal,
realizes that she is financially unable to
provide for her two college-age children’s
desired European travel and study, she starts
to reevaluate her own life of dreams deferred
and achievement denied.”

On Friday at 10 am., Professor Slawy-
Sutton will host a Round-Table discussion on
Women in Africa. Because seating is limited,
please contract Dr. Beschea-Fache to reserve
a spot. That evening at 7 pm, “Frantz Fanon:
sa vie, son combat,son travail,” be shown in
Hance auditorium.

“Frantz Fanon was psychiatrist, originally
from Martinique, who became a spokesman
for the Algerian revolution against French
colonialism. During the Second World War,
he volunteered as a soldier to help France,
‘the Mother Country,’ against the Nazis.
Embittered by his experience with racism
in the French Army, he gravitated to the
radical politics, Sartrean existentialism and

Tournées Festival: c’est magnifique!

philosophy of black consciousness know as
négritude.”

On April 4th, the screenings continues
with a film from this year titled “Réves
de Poussieré.” The film can be viewed in
CHAM 3155 at 7 in the evening. “Mocktar,
a Nigerian peasant who lost his entire family
in a terrible accident, tries to rebuild his life.
He goes to Essakane, a dusty gold mine in
Northeast Burkina Faso, to look for work and
to forget the past that haunts him.”

Professor Nancy Fairley will close the
festival on April 5th at 7 pm. in the 900
Room. The final screening will be “Daratt,”
a 2006 film in both Arabic and French.

“When the long and devastating civil
war in Chad ends, survivors are hoping that
justice will be served against those who

were involved in the genocide. The Truth
and Reconciliation Commission, however,
chooses not to condemn them. Young Atim,
whose father was murdered during the conflict,
is given a gun by his blind grandfather and
ordered to avenge his family.”

All of the events listed are free and
open to the public. The Tournées Festival
was made possible with the support of the
Cultural Services of the French Embassy
and the French Ministry of Culture (CNC),
the Florence Gould Foundation, the Grand
Marnier Foundation, highbrow entertainment,
agnés b., the Franco-American Cultural
Fund, Davidson College French Department,
Ethnic Studies Program and the French Club.
For more information, contact Dr. Caroline
Beschea-Fache at 704.894.2356

Missing ferret watch

OE BALACONIS
Arts & Living Editor

His name is Eugene, and he is covered
in fur. I must admit, I know little else of
this slinky mammal whom I never even
met. Looking at this photograph (at right) I
wonder, what could be going on behind that
deep, black eye? What could he be feeling
when he hears the bell of Chambers ring out
across the verdant lawn each day?

Pondering these questions of the ferret’s
psyche is futile, but I only want to know what
caused this mysterious, but beloved, fellow
to flee.

“He was always such a quiet guy, never
would’ve suspected him to go so sudden,”
reveals one of Eugene’s neighbors, who has

|. chosen not to be identified.

Eugene disappeared just days ago, but has

been seen around campus, moving quickly
between shadows. He responds only to the
sound of a recorder and the smell of peanut
butter. Contact the Davidsonian with any
information conceming sightings.

ith

: courtesy ihe6e"

Eugene is missing and suspected to

be lurking around campus. He was fast
seen near Belk Lab, but could not enter;
he has no cat card.

We dake" ou to. Loot U ne persona njury Attorneys’

im's career-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has eamed

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide, He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistent
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of 7
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, fim Fuller i

a Widely respected trial lawyer knows throughout the =
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has Uedicated his legal practice to helping peaple
who have been injured by ihe negligent or criminal
conduct of others.

Jim and bis wife oan live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Charch, A
member of the Lions Club, fim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy. and the Davidson Comsmanity Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS * BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Aten

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie. has spent almost 30
years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
| above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the ~
law inclding, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning, Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.
In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, curently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two growe
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as 2
commissioner with the Town of Davidson. has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M. and én has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LIDGATION + PERSONAL IRIURY
REAL ESTATE « WHS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Couon Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 wwie.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Campus

8 pm: “Company,”
Duke Performance
Hall

9-4: Greenstock

1 pm: April at the
Lake: Inflatables and
Food, Lake Campus

8 pm: “Company,”
Duke Hall

9 pm: Film Festival:
“Milk,” Belk Lawn 9 pm: Film Festival:
“Slumdog Million-

aire,” Belk Lawn

AFTER MIDNIGHT
WITH FREE QDOBA
Salsa Lessons: 11:30
pm - mifnigh Food:
Midnight - 2:30 AM
Union Atrium

Sun. 4/5

7:30 pm: “Lied-
abend,” musical stu-
dents perform song
selections, Tyler-
Tallman Hall

Hall

-

Mon. 4/6 Tue. 4/7
7:30 pm: “Playing Hide | 7:30 pm: History Forum,
and Seek,” play by “Colonel Despard goes
David Palko for Honors ‘| Mad in Honduras...,” 900
Thesis, Tyler-Tallman Room

10 pm: The Davidson
Show, 900 Room

_——

10 pm: 21 Year Old
Night, 900 Room

