THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

ci] ee —-— : -

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009 3

* 2h

Chidsey program welcomes class of student leaders

Katie VoEGTL
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, the Chidsey Leader-
ship Fellows, Class of 2013, gathered for a
day-long retreat at the DCPC Congregation
House. These twenty freshmen were selected
via a two-fold process, involving an applica-
tion and a follow-up interview. They have
committed to four years of close study and
practice of leadership, both on campus and in
the community.

Commencing at 9:30 a.m., the fellows,
after brief introductions, broke into four
groups for an epic scavenger hunt, organized
by sophomore Chidsey Fellows. Blind to the
temptations of the Davidson Green, which
included live banjo music and pony rides,
the fellows industriously followed a trail of
clues, completing a total of six tasks through
the course of the morning.

Although last year’s freshmen spent their
morning on a ropes course, sophomores felt
that a scavenger hunt would provide the op-
portunity to exercise a broader range of skills
— including mental, creative, physical, and
even musical.

Hopping from the Davidson post office
to the public library to the very doorstep of
the White House, fellows could be spotted
huddled over brain teasers, donning colorful
capes, discussing leadership and passing or-
anges with their necks. Upon visiting Cats on
the Main, fellows paused to sing the David-
son Fight Song, some more tunelessly than
others but all with admirable vigor. Some
even had the honor of performing before
President Tom Ross himself.

Afternoon activities included discussions

of students’ expectations and resolutions for
the future, as the Chidsey Leadership Devel-
opment program spans all four undergradu-
ate years, each of which concentrates on a
selected theme.

Freshmen focus on aspects of personal
leadership, including personal strengths,
how others perceive them and leadership
theory. Sophomores turn towards an in-depth
study of group dynamics, while juniors ex-
pand their view to include the broader com-
munity. The program culminates senior year
with sustainable leadership, as fellows look
into future leadership possibilities.

All these endeavors are guided and facili-
tated by the joint efforts of Julia Baker Jones,
director of the Chidsey Center for Leader-
ship Development, and Alexandra McArthur,
Leadership Development Fellow.

These ladies place a great deal of em-
phasis on the diversity of leadership styles
and the conviction that each fellow should
develop an approach in accord with his own
strengths and interests. Likewise, they rec-
ognize that good leaders are needed in every
field, including companies, non-profit agen-
cies, the government and educational institu-
tions.

As freshmen fellows shared past leader-
ship experiences, the colorful diversity of
interests in the group became evident. There
were leaders from band, school newspapers,
student government, sports teams and com-
munity service endeavors. One student even
began her own beekeeping business.

Now the freshmen will join as a commu-
nity of aspiring leaders, helping each other
identify individual strengths, talents and
weaknesses as they explore leadership theory

SGA business proceeds
ITS news, alcohol policy discussed

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday,
the Student Government Association (SGA)
addressed a number of relevant issues. The
first order of business was the introduction
of the Building and Grounds Committee for
SGA. Chipper Jones ’12, the head of the
committee, began by explaining that this
committee is dedicated to improving and
bringing attention to issues regarding the
campus’ buildings and grounds.

This year the committee will be focused
on achieving specific goals, such as install-
ing seating around Commons. Other exciting
goals for this committee are creating outdoor
classrooms and participating in the creation
of two new dormitories. In addition to this,
they will continue to be involved with the
movement towards sustainability and com-
posting.

After Jones, Jordan Starck ’12 presented
the External Affairs Committee. This com-
mittee is focused on creating a relationship
between Davidson College and the town of
Davidson. This year they will be concentrat-
ing on creating a “Davidson Expo Show”
which will be aimed to show Davidson to the
town. They would like to have representa-
tives from the PCC and student organizations
to show what Davidson College is like.

This concluded the Committee presenta-
tions, and the meeting continued with an up-
date from the Student Life Committee. Laura
Sousa ”10 began by saying that ITS would be
installing more computers on campus. They
will be adding computers to the top floor of
the Student Union and they will also be add-
ing computers in the basement of Sloan. ITS

will also be adding printers in Cannon, Watts
and F.

The new SGA-ITS student liaison is Dan-
ny Langley ’10, who will be in charge of ad-
dressing all the issues concerning ITS. In ad-
dition to working with ITS, the Student Life
Committee also met with Fountain Walker to
address the issue of towing on campus. Some
students have complained that their cars had
been towed and that they had not received
a notification, so Walker agreed to send an
email notifying the owner of the car that it
had been towed.

The committee also met with Dr. Patty
Perillo regarding the new alcohol policies
that have been enforced on campus. They
have agreed to work together to compile a
list of rules that all students should know.
They will distribute these rules through the
class presidents so that all students are aware
of all the policies regarding alcohol.

In addition to this, they will also be creat-
ing an alcohol board which will meet once a
month and where SGA, RLO and Perillo can
discuss what’s happening and analyze the
policies and how they are working.

After this, SGA President Meikaela Zwie-
ryznski ’10 concluded the meeting by giving
an update on the Southern Conference she
attended the weekend of Sep. 19-20, where
Deans and SGA officers of peer institutions
met and discussed what they have been do-
ing in their schools and what has worked and
what has not.

Her impressions were that Davidson
seems to be a very closely knit campus and
that the alcohol policies that are enforced on
campus at these peer institutions are stricter,
but that this has created some dangerous off-
campus drinking cultures.

together as well as practical skills, including
the logistics behind running effective meet-
ings, delegation and planning.

The Chidsey program owes its creation to
the Chidsey Center for Leadership Develop-
ment, which opened in 2007, thanks largely
to the generous sponsorship of John Chidsey.
He and his wife Lisa graduated from David-
son in 1983. Chidsey 1s is now a college trustee

er Ons will include a hair, salon and

4 clothing boutique named jgSmith Premi> ae

and CEO of Burger King Corporation.

He funded the center to provide activi-
ties and resources geared towards cultivating
leadership in students. Defining leadership

s “the ability to empower and inspire oth-
ers to work together for the common good,”
the program strives to provide students with
a blend of theory and experience that will en-
hance their leadership skills for life.

é of business i in Davidson while mci

Tan pasties

G OL

“aU pls

