Tue DAVIDSONIAN

—-- _

NEws

The Buddy System, acapella
groups to hold charity concert

KeELsey LiLtey
News Editor

Sunday, Nov. 15, Davidson organization
The Buddy System will be holding a charity
concert, with performances by the Generals,
the Delilahs and Androgyny, in Duke Family
Performance Hall at 5 p.m. to raise money for
the Autism Foundation of the Carolinas and
PTA Too, Davidson
Elementary’s _parent-
teacher organization
for families of children
with special needs. The
tickets will be free for
students and the pub-
lic, though donations
are encouraged.

The Buddy System
was founded last se-
mester by Billy Powers ’10, who started the
club after working for many years with chil-
dren with special needs.

“{I] have seen the positive effects that
positive social interactions can have on both
children with special needs and their main-
streamed peers,” Powers said. “I’ve also
found that working with kids with special
needs has helped me keep things in perspec-
tive. Despite all of the challenges they face,
the kids I’ve worked with have maintained
wonderful outlooks on life, which is some-
thing I really admire.”

The Buddy System members spend one
afternoon a week at Davidson Elementary,
working with special needs students.

“While schools often do a great job of
satisfying the educational needs of children

“[T]he kids I’ve worked with
have maintained wonder- said.
ful outlooks on life, which is

something I really admire.”

-Billy Powers ’10

with special needs, their social needs aren’t
always met,” Powers said. “We try to fulfill
those needs by facilitating one on one and
group activities that promote positive social
interactions.”

In the past, activities have included sun-
dae making, arts and crafts and singing. But
Powers emphasized a greater goal.

“More important than the activities them-
selves are the relation-
ships that are formed
while we’re there,” he

The concert will
feature three of David-
son’s acapella groups,
with the final piece
being a collaboration
of the groups and the
special-needs students.
It will also feature both a parent and student
speaker.

Money raised will go toward ensuring the
availability of scholarships that provide af-
ter school activities for children with special
needs, who otherwise could not afford them.

“This idea was born out of a desire for the
three acappella groups to come together in
support of a good cause,” Powers said. “We
hope to raise awareness about the challenges
that children with special needs, as well as
their families, face everyday.”

To find out more about the concert, or to
get involved with The Buddy System, stu-
dents can contact Powers at bipowers@da-
vidson.edu. Information about donations is
available on the Generals’ website at www.
davidsongenerals.com.

“photo by Bill Giduz

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009 3

ir --~ —_

Korea experts Peter Beck (left) and Kevin Logan (right) visited Davidson last
week to discuss the policy and security challenges of North Korea. Beck is a
Pantech Fellow at the Shorenstein Asia Pacific Research Center at Stanford Uni-
versity and Kevin Logan is the FB! Senior Intelligence Officer for North Korea.

MPUS POLICE MSLOYTTER¢

10/28/09 11:20 hrs Assist Fire

Officer was advised that a student had fallen in Watts dorm on the fourth floor. The
reporting officer responded and found Davidson College student laying on the floor

in the hallway on the fourth floor. The student was conscious and alert but complain-
ing of lower back pain and a headache. She advised she was feeling poorly and had a
cold but did not remember falling. The reporting officer called for Medic to examine.
Medic arrived, along with Davidson Fire Dept. and after examining, transported her to
Lake Norman Regional Medical Center.

10/29/09 00:33 hrs Vehicle Stop

Officer observed two people sitting on a toolbox in the back of a truck bed while the
truck was traveling west on Baker Dr. Reporting officer followed the vehicle and ob-
served the two people lying down in the truck bed attempting to hide. Reporting officer
conducted a traffic stop in front of the Davidson Laundry. The passengers were identi-
fied as Davidson College student and alumni. Reporting officer spoke with the three
students about the safety of sitting down in the truck bed while the truck is moving.

10/29/09 17:43 hrs Suspicious Vehicle
Officer observed a suspicious vehicle parked in the southwest corner of the Baker
Sports parking lot. Reporting officer observed a male subject inside a registered to a
rental car company. Reporting officer spoke with the driver, advised he was attending
an Asian conference in the Chambers Building and was a few hours early. Reporting
officer checked through NCIC/DCI.

10/30/09 16:45 hrs Animal Control
Officer was contacted advising that an injured hawk was found at the outdoor tennis
courts. Officer contacted Dispatch and requested them to call the Raptor Center locat-
ed in Huntersville, NC. Officials from the Raptor Center came and removed the hawk
to be healed at their facility. No further action was required.

10/31/09 00:12 hrs Fire

Officers were dispatched to a fire alarm at the Kappa Sigma House. Upon arrival, both
officers observed significant foam built up at the front entrance to the building. Inside
the building there was foam built up to the ceiling throughout the entire social area
upstairs. Officer noticed approximately one to one and a half inches of water on the
upstairs floor when he began to walk toward the basement stairway. As Officer opened
the stairway door, water was seen flowing down the stairs to the basement floor. The
Davidson Fire Dept. shut off the main power to the building to keep the risk of fire to a
minimum.

Davidson Fire advised him of the safety hazards and advised Officer that a Fire Watch
would need to be maintained at the building until the physical plant was able to repair
the fire alarm system.

Upon discussing the situation with Kappa Sigma, Officer was advised that the Physi-
cal Plant and the RLO was aware of the type of party they were having and approved
it. Officer was able to salvage the Social Event registration Form and it does note that
the name of the event is a “Foam Party” and shows an approval by a person with the
initials AC. It is unclear whether the equipment used during the party was intended for
indoor use.

Based on the fire department’s requirement of a fire watch, the fraternity would be re-
quired to maintain around the clock fire watch until the fire alarm was repaired.

.

