10 THe DAvVIDSONIAN

Are Conference Tournaments worth it?

H UNG
Staff Writer

With Selection Sunday done and gone
and the 2009 NCAA Tournament field set in
stone, media pundits have shifted their at-
tention to the usual questions: who will be
this year’s Cinderella? How will the small
schools fare? Who will make the Final Four?
Is it possible for an unexpected team to win
the title?

All are valid and intriguing questions
that will pervade the sports media and will
be written about ad nauseum over the course
of the next month. Lost in the shuffle, of
course, will be the events of the past few
weeks: conference tournaments.

This generation of college students takes
the institution of conference tournaments for
granted. Today, only the Ivy League does not
sponsor an end-of-season tournament to de-
termine its participant in the NCAA Tourna-
ment. Other conferences, like the Southern
Conference and ACC, have sponsored tour-
naments for decades.

The positive aspects of conference tour-
naments are numerous and have been cited.

SPORTS

incessantly by conference officials for years.
Conference tournaments are often an eco-
nomic boon for the member institutions. Fur-
thermore, they generate significant television
exposure for the conferences that would not
have ordinarily been given during the regular
season.

For the major conferences, a tournament
makes even more sense. For teams on the
verge of securing an NCAA berth, the tour-
nament is an opportunity to beat another
good team and clinch that spot.

Schools from major conferences often
boost their résumés by making surprise ap-
pearance in the semifinals of tournaments. It
seems to be understood that upsets happen in
conference tournaments, and large schools
are often rewarded.

But, what about smaller conferences? The
poor record of lower seeds is often cited by
the pundits that degrade the abilities of small
conference schools. Well, that is because the
smaller conferences often do not send their
best representative to the tournament.

While underdogs in big conferences are
rewarded and their favorites relatively ex-
cused, favorites lose any opportunity at a bid

when they lose in small conferences.

All of which certainly begs the question:
are conference tournaments worth it for the
little guys? Does the Southern Conference
benefit from Chattanooga’s run on its home
court?

Small conference tournaments almost
never draw large amounts of fans and are of-
ten held in terrible locations. The Atlantic
Ten tournament drew horribly when located
in Atlantic City for two years. The South-
ern Conference tournament had horrendous
attendance for Davidson’s victory over Elon
in 2008. Even the host Chattanooga Mocs
failed to draw an impressive crowd for a
tournament championship earned on their
home court.

The West Coast Conference has an inter-
esting system. The top seed (usually Gon-
zaga) only has to win two games to clinch
the automatic bid. Lower seeds have a much
tougher road. This means that the conference
is more likely to send its best team instead
of one that got hot and won a few games it
should not have won.

Furthermore, small conferences rarely
make much money on these tournaments.

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 18, 2009

4

Sure, the host city bids a little money and at-
tendance helps a little bit, but do those effects
really outweigh the losses?

In spite of my evident reservations, I
do think that conference tournaments are a
positive overall. I like that every team starts
fresh and almost every team in Division I can
say that if they win ten games in a row they
are the National Champions.

I do not think that the favorites should
have every advantage going into the tourna-
ments. I do believe, however, that the com-
mittee should not look at them nearly as hard.
Does Louisville really deserve the top seed
overall because it won its tournament and
UNC lost without ACC player-of-the-year Ty
Lawson? I certainly do not like the emphasis
placed on these tournaments that do not rep-
resent the entire season.

The conference tournaments definitely
hurt smaller conferences’ ability to pull up-
sets in the NCAA tournament. That said,
I do believe that the sense of hope, the joy
of something for every school to play for,
and the absolute equality, at least in a small
sense, makes conference tournaments a wor-
thy endeavor.

Robinson garners honors, but Wildcats fall to Cougars

JOHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

By defeating Furman 66-63 on Feb. 28,
the ’Cats earned a five seed and first-round
bye in the SoCon tournament. On the flip
side, they had to face College of Charleston,
one of only two teams to defeat Davidson
twice this season.

Still, the Wildcat squad kept victory a re-
ality even midway through the second half.
Time and again, Charleston pulled ahead,
only to allow relentless Davidson comebacks.
Riding the effort of Mercedes Robinson ’09
and Mandy Halbersleben ’09, the team’s two
seniors, the Cats drove to within one with
six minutes remaining.

The back-and-forth action finally took its
toll, however, and Charleston capped the tally
at 65-54. Uncharacteristically poor shooting
from the Davidson offense, especially from
behind the arc, halted the team’s champion-
ship aspirations.

“We were ready. We were prepared,”
Head Coach Annette Watts said. “ Our kids
knew what they needed to do. We didn’t miss
many defensive assignments. [The ball] just
did not go in the basket.”

Despite the scoring difficulties, Robinson
and Alex Thompson *10 produced another
pair of highlight performances, netting 19
and 21 points, respectively. While this season
rode a roller coaster of highs and lows, the
legacy left for the future extends in a posi-
tive fashion. “For this team to rally and do
some of the things they did, with the limited
resources phat we had this year, I’m proud of

Baseball

* £@ Lp e

Men’s Basketball

them,” Watts said.

“What was special about this team,” Rob-
inson said, “is that no matter what hurdles we
had to overcome or even when things looked
grim, we always stayed positive. We believed
in each other, and we never doubted the great
team we had the potential to be.”

Highlights on the year include the unprec-
edented 7-0 start to the conference schedule
and Watts’ first ever victory against Chatta-
nooga. “T have to look at it on paper to see
that we only won 11 games,” she said, “be-
cause it seems like we won so many more,
and we did win so many battles.”

For Watts, this year’s team invigorated
her approach and direction. “I’m bad to try
to sugar-coat things because I feel like [the
players have] been sheltered. But the truth
of the matter is they want it told just like it
is. This team taught me that — ‘tell us what
we’ve got to do, and push us to get there’.”

And for Robinson, the squad’s cohesive-
ness pulled everyone together every game,
whether win or loss. “All the moments we
spent together laughing, crying, and bat-
tling each other on the court are so special to
me,” she said. “No specific moments come
to my mind because there are so many. I was
blessed to be a part of such a close team on
and off the court.” .

Robinson, named to the first team All-
SoCon, finished her collegiate career with
1,115 points, seventh on Davidson’s all-time
list. Where she will be most sorely missed is
right under the basket, where she grabbed a
record-breaking 288 boards this season.

Filling the void becomes the inevitable

Men’s Tennis

(8-7, 3-1) (27-7, 18-2) (5-7, 1-1)
Results: Results: Results:

3/10 vs. Yale W 14-8
3/11 vs. Yale L 2-4
3/13 @ Elon W 7-1
3/17 @ USC L0-6

Next Up:
TBD @ St. Mary’s

Next Up:
3/20-3/22 @ Wofford
3/24 vs, Wake Forest

Notes:

stay hot in a weekend series against
SoCon foe Wofford.

3/7 vs. App State W 84-68
3/8 vs. CofC L 52-59
3-17 @ USC W 70-63

Notes: The Wildcats continue
postseason play with a cross-
country road trip to take on St.
After picking up a huge SoCon vic- Mary’s in the NIT 2nd Round.
tory against Elon, the Cats look to Game date and time will be an-

nounced later this week.

3/9 vs. St. Louis L 3-4
3/12 vs. Indiana State W 4-0

Next Up:
3/21 @ Furman
3/23 vs. UIC

Notes:

Indiana State last week, the

SoCon rival Furman.

Coming off a solid victory over

men’s tennis team is looking to
keep their streak going against

struggle for next year’s players. “They’ve
got to make up for rebounds and points from
Mercedes. And they’ve got to make up for
energy and always going hard from Mandy,”
Watts said. “There’s a bunch here that can do
it, it’s just a matter of who will step up and
get ’er done.”

But along with the void, this year’s se-
niors leave a legacy of leadership. “It’s not
about how many points I scored or how many
rebounds I pulled,” Robinson said, “but that I
was someone my team could count on always
to compete and to contribute everything I
could for us to be successful on the court.”

The three most likely candidates to take
over reins next season: Thompson, Julia Pa-
quette °10, and Monica Laune’’10. Along
with Ashley Lax *11 and the four freshmen,
the team will witness the arrival of as many
as five players in the recruiting class. Run-
ning the gamut from quick point guards to
6’3” posts, the class of 2013 will comple-
ment an already well-balanced force.

The program next year will also ben-
efit from the coaches’ experiences together
— Watt’s three assistants will no longer be
newcomers. “T like my new staff. They’ve
brought a lot of new energy and new things
to practice,” she said. “But I look forward
to it being so much easier for them . . . The
stress level will really be down for them.”

From this season’s challenge, the players
face a direction that, in Robinson’s opinion,
heads onward and upward.

“They will be the underdogs next year,
and that is a position that Davidson hasn’t
been accustomed to in a long time,” she said.

Re:

BO OG ES LOSE

“But I know they will rise to the challenge.
I think the girls are ready to step up to fill in
for me and Mandy with confidence. We were
faced with plenty of obstacles this year that
will prepare them for anything that’ comes
their way next year.”

Mercedes Robinson ’09 was named first
team all-SoCon after averaging 14.7 ppg
and 9.6 rpg. She finishes her career as
Davidson’s all-time leading rebounder.

Lacrosse Women’s Basketball Women’s Tennis
(5-3) (12-18, 11-9) (4-7, 0-2)
Results: Results Results
3/12 SUNY Cortland W 13-10 3/7 vs. CofC L 54-65 3/14 @ Ga. Southern L 2-5
3/15 vs. Loyola (Md.) L 3-20 3/15 @ CofC L 3-4
Next Up:
Next Up: End of Season Next Up:

3/18 vs. Marist
3/21 vs. Longwood

Notes:

Late goals and good defense
produced a victory against
SUNY and the lacrosse team
will be looking to add to their
win total against Marist tonight.

Notes:
Robinson ’09 and Halbersleben
’09 performed well in their last .
game as ’Cats and the future is
bright for women’s basketball at
Davidson.

3/21 @ Western Carolina
3/23 vs. Brown

Notes: After two close confer-
ence losses, the ’Cats look to
record their first conference
victory of the season Saturday at
Western Carolina.
