4 Tue DAvIDSONIAN

The Rotaract Club, whose aims include leadership and selfless service, meets to discuss the

year.

photo by Bill Giduz

uy

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Subscriptions for # the
pee will

terminate.

ge

Author Tobias Wolff addresses questions of honor

Katie VOEGTL
Staff Writer

Tobias Wolff has been showered with
honors from the PEN/Faulkner Award to the
Los Angeles Times Book Prize. Yet when
he sat down for a midmorning interview on
Tuesday, his intelligent blue eyes glowed
with warmth, not pride, as he spoke of his
life and experiences as a writer.

Wolff attributes his initial love of reading
to the example of his mother, asserting that,
“A lot of the appetite for reading comes from
parents. We learn everything by imitation,
then take off from there if we’re lucky.” He
began toying with stories as a young boy and
kept on because, “I was blessed with very
clear limitations. I cultivated the one thing I
felt 1 could do well.”

Driven also by his appetite for the act
of writing itself, he has come to think that
“writing isn’t religion, but it is a release from
the prison of yourself.” He relishes writing,
not because it is effortless, but because he
is “addicted to self-forgetfulness. You lose
yourself...dragging it out syllable by syl-
lable. Thinking about language. Rewriting a
sentence 20 times.”

Despite his careful attention to language,
Wolff does not feel that stories can be forced
into existence. When writing, Wolff thinks
that he is “not always in conscious command.
Writing should be better than it is meant to
be, by serendipity. When design is supersed-
ed by something inexplicable, a surprise.”

Among his previous works, “This Boy’s
Life” stands out as a memoir marked by pow-
erful, and sometimes painful, self-revelation.
“In all honesty, sometimes I wept, remem-
bering my mother and her trials.”

But he pressed on, sketching a portrait
even of his dreaded stepfather, a figure whom
he had avoided for years. To his surprise,
though, he “ began to see him as a comic fig-
ure as well... When you put things in a corner
and don’t write about them, they take on a
power they shouldn’t have.”

As muchas he cherished writing the book,

he did undergo trepidation about the release
of a novel which so openly exposed both
himself and others. “If you write a memoir
and you’re not afraid when it comes out, you
need to go deeper.” Yet he recognizes that
he “would be held hostage as a writer by the
queasiness of others about appearing in my
work.” To be fair, though, “I make sure that
I put myself under the same moral scrutiny
as others.”

Themes which Wolff observes in his own

“Writing should be better
than it is meant to be, by
serendipity. When design is
superseded by something
inexplicable, a surprise.”
-Tobias Wolff

work include “identity, formation of identity,
authenticity, truth and falsehood, politics of
family life, obligations to each other...Are
we in a morally vacant universe? What is our
calling in this world, in our relations to each
other?”

All of these subjects are delicately ex-
plored in “Old School,” a novel set in an elite
private school which, on the surface, resem-
bles Davidson in many ways, a place where,
“little things grow large.”

Chosen as the freshman class’s summer
reading book in light of its showcasing of
honor and integrity, “Old School” highlights
the workings of minute webs of deception
which wrap around the protagonist as well as
the dean of the school.

“Both of them have allowed, if not en-
couraged, misunderstandings about them-
selves which are profitable to them,” ex-
plained Wolff. These white lies lead to “fes-
tering self doubt and self contempt.”

As he struggles to form his own identity,

the narrator becomes infatuated with a series
of authors, going so far as to type out works
of Hemingway. The months fly by, his own
voice ever changing as he repeatedly steeps
himself in the works of others.

Wolff, who declares imitation a vital part
of learning, believes that originality comes
“as your own particular interest become
more pressing than the recapitulation of what
others have said... When you write truly, ten-
tatively about your story.”

When the narrator at last discovers a story
that seems to be, by all accounts, his story, he
plagiarizes the work and is subsequently ex-
pelled in a scene where the merits of a strict
honor code are sharply questioned.

Wolff himself candidly declared, “Honor
is a very, very difficult subject. On the one
hand, there are poles, things that are clearly

dishonorable and honorable. There are ar-
eas in between, though, that are difficult to
navigate and parse morally... Writers grapple
with it all the time...endlessly picking [their]
way through a minefield of values.”

Though he came to Davidson at a time
when the centennial of the Honor Code is
being celebrated, Wolff openly admitted, “I
have a very ambiguous feeling about honor
codes. Our sense of honor is so deeply bound
up in our souls and our sense of self regard.”

He argues that it is impossible to divine
the mystery of other’s motives, and the im-
plications of condemning their actions can be
vicious. He also fears fostering an environ-
ment of moral superiority instead of kinship
but allows that he loves “the idea of a com-
munity where authority is not outside in the
form of rules but is guided by integrity.”

Wolff discusses honor and the life of the writer with Professors Parker and Mills.
