THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dating violence requires response

Dave MITCHELL
Guest Columnist

The dynamics of dating demonstrate a marked departure
from those of previous generations. Technology plays an
essential role in this, as cellular phones have blurred the line
between dating and marital relationship characteristics. The
domestic violence that was once confined mostly to marriage
has spilled over into dating relationships. Teen dating abuse,
in age groups as young as middle school, has become
alarmingly common. There was a time when two dating
individuals were forced to live their own lives outside of the
relationship. Today, communication and contact between two
such individuals is constant and uninhibited. As many of you
know, it is not uncommon for them to send each other twenty,
thirty, or forty or more text messages in just one hour, which
can isolate both from their surroundings and produce an
unhealthy emotional dependence. In some cases an additional
factor comes into play that can be destructive, insidious, and
imprisoning. That factor is control.

My sister, Kristin, was tragically murdered by a
possessive boyfriend in June of 2005, just three weeks after
graduating from college. She was incessantly bombarded
with her boyfriend’s controlling and jealous behavior,
typically through text messaging and calling. One of the last
text messages she ever sent to him read: “Why can’t I hang
out with my friends? You are being crazy.”

The sad fact is, this kind of behavior is common to nearly
all physically and emotionally abusive dating relationships, as
I discovered when I became part of the effort to raise awareness
of the epidemic of teen dating violence. There are consistent
characteristics that precede and accompany nearly all dating
abuse. When the insecurities and desperation of potential

Obama deserves support in 2010

Ros O’D LL
Guest Columnist

5:30 a.m. January 8, 2008 Francestown, NH—I move
to the edge of the bed and groggily answer the ringing cell
phone, “Good Morning Rob, election day is here! Are you
fired up...” A call that I will never forget, and a day that
changed my life. Jan. 8, 2008 was the date of the New
Hampshire Presidential Primary. Only four days had passed
since Senator Barack Obama had won a stunning and decisive
victory in the lowa Caucus over rivals Senator Hillary Clinton
and former Senator John Edwards. The weight of the moment
hung in the: air, with each cold, deep breath that morning
injecting a fresh realization that history was unfolding just
before my eyes. In less than 24 hours, the citizens of the
state who claim the phrase “Live Free or Die” would elect
the first African American candidate as their choice for the
Democratic nominee for President, casting Sen. Obama as
the “inevitable” choice for the Democratic nominee. History
saw it differently.

I was shocked, astounded, upset,
and confused; I'd be returning to
Davidson not the triumphant victor as
I envisioned but as a Greek hero laid
low by the fatal flaw of hubris.

What was supposed to be the shining moment of
winter break, when I set out for New Hampshire just after
the Christmas holiday and devoted every waking hour of
the next two weeks to the Obama for America campaign
in the Manchester, NH, turned out to be a crushing defeat
that shocked the political world and revitalized the Clinton
campaign. During my time as an intern in New Hampshire,
I knocked on hundreds of doors, made thousands of phone
calls, lost countless hours of sleep and developed a cocaine-
like addiction to Coca-Cola. While it was not glamorous
work, I developed a deep sense of camaraderie with those
I worked with in “the trenches,” and still vividly remember
nights out with friends after endless workdays.

Many of the days run together as an endless stream of what
can be most closely associated with “pledging” a fraternity:
it’s the best time you never want to have again. But Election

Day remains unblemished in my memory. I spent the day -

at my staging location in the scenic town of Francestown,
where J had awoken that morning in the house of a venerable,
politically active couple that had offered to house me to cut
travel time on Election Day. I spent the morning sending out
volunteers to knock doors within their own neighborhoods.
That afternoon, I set out myself to make one last final push to

‘high schools in all states, and the lives of innocent young

PERSPECTIVES

abusers is combined with immediate and unrestrained access
to the abused through modern communication technology, the
results are explosive. This technology has become an outlet
for control and emotional abuse, signs of potential violence.
The silver lining, however, is that these warning signs are
recognizable. We need only to foster awareness in order to
begin reversing the trend.

Dating violence is not yet a part of our society’s
vocabulary. Adolescents have received no such education,
and older generations are generally not aware of the need
created by the changing dynamics of dating. Along with
other victims’ families, the National Foundation for Women
Legislators (NFWL), and a campaign by Liz Claiborne,
I have tried to begin doing my part to inform our nation. I
advocated for awareness and legislation on Capitol Hill
to mandate education, spoke to 250 people at the NFWL’s
Annual Conference, including many elected women and
legislators from across the nation, and have interviewed with
radio stations broadcasted nationally.

The results are evident. In only the past few months, three
additional states have produced legislation on the matter,
adding to the original three, and legislation is brewing in
an additional two. It is my hope that with our continued
collective effort, we will mandate education in middle and

men and women like my sister will ‘be saved. What I ask of
you is only that you acknowledge this issue. It is by way of
awareness that our society can begin to respond to the need
posed by the environment of dating that technology has
permanently changed.

Dave Mitchell ’10 is.an economics major from Ellicott
City, MD. Contact him at damitchell @ davidson.edu.

Get-Out-The-Vote and bring home another decisive victory.

As I headed down to the polling locations after closing
to retrieve the vote tally from my town, victory was in sight.
According to Real Clear Politics, polling numbers, for the
dates Jan. 5-7, revealed Sen. Obama held an 8-point advantage
over both rivals, with many polls showing a double-digit
lead on Election Day. I was further emboldened by the vote
tally within my own town: Obama won by more than a 2-1
margin. As I drove back to campaign headquarters just after
the first voting tallies were being reported, I was steadfast in
my belief that we had helped fast-track Sen. Obama’s bid for
the Democratic Nomination.

When I arrived at headquarters, we eagerly awaited the
results. But when only 60% of the vote had reported, the
networks called the race for Sen. Clinton. I saw staffers,
many of whom had spent almost a full year campaigning in
NH, all asking the same question: how did this happen? I was
shocked, astounded, upset and confused; I’d be returning to
Davidson not as the triumphant victor I envisioned but as a
Greek hero laid low by the fatal flaw of hubris. However, my
fortunes were about to turn.

As Senator Obama walked onto the stage that night to
give his concession speech, everyone was wondering how he
would respond. If the speech fell flat or he sounded bitter in
the face of defeat, it could undermine the entire campaign
going into Nevada, South Carolina and the Feb. 5 primaries,
potentially ending his bid for the presidency. But that night,
Sen. Obama delivered the best speech of his candidacy, The
best not only for its use of soaring rhetoric and the infusion
of the phrase “yes we can” into the campaign, but also on
account of the influx of hope in the face of diversity needed to
rally his supporters and sustain the campaign over the coming
weeks and months.

As we bring President Obama’s first year in office to a
close, many are wondering whether he can bear the weight of
rising unemployment, a failing healthcare system, two wars
and a nation at a crossroads. Some say he’s indecisive and too
inexperienced for such a tough and demanding position, that
he lacks the fortitude to see the battle through. But following
his speech that January night in 2008, Senator Obama got
on a New Hampshire staff conference call with one simple
message: I thrive under pressure and we will see this battle
through. With these words still ringing in my ears, the next
morning I skipped my flight home, hopped a ride to work
on the campaign in South Carolina and embarked upon a
5-month journey to ensure the work I started in NH would
not falter and fall short. History proved my convictions in the
man and his vision for this country to be correct. That night in
New Hampshire, I took then-Senator Obama at his word: that
we’d see the battle through. In 2010, you’d be a fool not to.

Rob O'Donnell ’10 is a Classics major ‘from Chevy Chase,
MD. Contact him at roodonnell@davidson.edu.

_ Davidson student:

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 9

; {ne yer |

no. idea ‘where to loo

heard-the Davi aon namie: uma
Stephe Ci é

wtih

ternship i in Human. Resources’
; a Seed stressed. the importa

“John ‘sdantls be 4s Sciedol dedicated -to /
Yavidson § smpassionate and extremely helpfot
weer ‘comfortable: and spe

ourself what makes the office cha special place

a a sag ys

va not see your 0

graduation or‘have alread: lym

7 Career Services, Office‘can,
