4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sociology, from page 3

biographies about two inmates. Interviewing
inmates can prove frustrating, as “when you
hear stories of [these inmates’] lives growing
up, it doesn’t surprise you that they end up
in prison.”

The fatalism some inmates have regard-
ing their likelihood of being in prison is espe-
cially disheartening to Klaasen, who reveals
one instance when an inmate convicted of
murder said, “I’d always assumed I’d go to
prison, but for drugs and not murder.”

Klaasen is also discouraged by “see-
ing men come back to prison time and time
again,” an observation Dr. Ruth confirms
with statistics: “Two-thirds of prisoners re-
turn within three to five years.”

Klaasen says she has learned a great deal
from the course. “I think it’s great that this
type of class is offered at Davidson,” she
said. “It’s really good to put us in a situa-
tion where most of us will never be, espe-
cially since some Davidson students will be
in a position where their decisions will affect
people in prison.”

Another problem inherent in the crimi-
nal justice system, according to Collins, is
that the poor are disproportionately disad-

Wepnespay, Marcu 18, 2009

Finally, some investors are ‘already amass:
ng ‘Offsets: in anticipation of” at mandate

vantaged. This.is largely because accused
persons who can not afford to hire their
own attorneys must be represented by state-
appointed attorneys. These attorneys often
“have ridiculously large case loads, putting
the individuals that are assigned to them at
a disadvantage, strictly because they didn’t
have the means to hire a personal lawyer,”
Collins said.

Dr. Ruth hopes that students taking his
course will attempt to find potential solu-
tions to this country’s crime problem, which
is partially perpetuated by the “educational
failures of our school system.”

Dr. Ruth supports this observation, shar-
ing that several former students who’ve tak-
en Sociology 319 now have careers which
impact the criminal justice system. Students
have gone on to become law enforcement
agents, corrections workers, lawyers and so-
cial workers.

Collins said that she appreciates the value
of her experience in Sociology 319. “This
class has given me a chance to see some of
the short comings of the criminal justice sys-
tem, which literally can ruin an innocent per-
son’s life,” she said. “Things have become
more real for me, which ultimately results in
me learning more.”

CORRECTION

A Feb. 25 article, “New locavore initiative,” misspelled
the last name of Christy Shi ’96, who started “Know Your
Farms” for northern Mecklenburg County.

on the opportunity to see the world
from a unique perspective

if you are curious and adventurous,
then pack your bags and say goodbye
to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit,
experience a different culture, learn a
foreign language, discover who you are
and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.™

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

Watson, from page I

son. She has assisted Dr. Karen Hales with
genetics research since her sophomore year
and spent last summer-researching behavior-
al ecology with Dr. Mark Stanback. She is
currently writing a Biology honors thesis on
mitochondria in fruit flies.

Bergner’s passion for research led her to
Australia for the first semester of her junior
year where she studied abroad on a School
for Field Studies program.

It was in Australia that Bergner first en-
countered bats. “One of our main focuses
was bats, so we would catch them in these
traps called harp traps and then put light
sticks on them and release them,” she said.
“Then we'd track them throughout the rain-
forest at night. We also volunteered at a bat
hospital, caring for baby flying foxes whose
moms had been paralyzed by ticks.” Her ex-
periences in Australia were one of the main
inspirations for her Watson proposal.

Asked about the significance of bats, she
pointed out their unique qualities. “They’re
really cool creatures, a product of evolu-
tion—flying nocturnal mammals—there’s
pretty much nothing else that fits that descrip-
tion,” she said. “They’ ve radiated all over the
world, and they occupy all sorts of niches.”

Despite her fondness for bats, while re-
searching her proposal, Bergner noticed that
many cultures harbor aversions toward this
animal.

Bergner insisted, “They’re a lot cuter than
you would think...they serve a lot of roles
that are really useful to humans, but they’re
pretty underappreciated.”

In addition to exploring their ecological
role, Bergner will look at bats in relation to
human societies, investigating why bats pro-
voke so much cultural anxiety.

~

Bergner has been awarded a Watson
Fellowship for her work with bats.

Bats, in Bergner’s opinion, may be a
symptom of an underlying miscommunica-
tion between the scientific community and
community at large. In the future, Bergner
said, “I’m interested in making scientific re-
search accessible.”

By exploring why bats get bad press
when they are actually quite harmless and
helpful to humans, Bergner will try to bet-
ter understand the gap between science and
society. With the help of Bergner’s Watson
Fellowship, perhaps bats will gain the social
standing they scientifically deserve.

