THE DAVIDSONIAN

RE. = =—=§s S/o

News

“Evo devo’ at Davidson

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

This year’s Smith lecture brought re-
nowned evolutionary scientist Sean B. Car-
roll to Davidson, presenting a lecture entitled
“Remarkable Creatures: Epic Adventures in
the Search for the Origins of Species.” As
we celebrate Charles Darwin’s 200" birth-
day this year, the biology faculty thought he
would be an excellent speaker. Carroll cur-
rently stands at the forefront of the field of
evolutionary developmental biology, more
commonly known as “evo devo.”

This field observes developmental pro-
cesses in plants and animals in order to find
ancestral relationships between organisms,
and how they evolved. His personal studies
have explored DNA and found it to be more
than a genetic blueprint, but a detailed record
of how species adapt and change overtime.
He teaches molecular biology and genetics
at the University of Wisconsin, in addition
to serving there as an Investigator with the
Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

In the dinner at President Ross’s home
preceding the lecture, selected students and
faculty had the opportunity to ask Dr. Carroll
questions. His answers were light-hearted
and jovial. When Dr. Mike Dorcas, profes-
sor of herpetology, asked Carroll about inter-
est in snakes, Carroll replied, “I love flipping
logs, reaching hands into ponds and there
catching snakes.”

Apparently it was in this childlike excite-
ment of nature that his biology fever first hit.
“Even still I have the same visceral thrill see-
ing what’s under the next log or around the
next comer,” he said. Dr. Denham made the
comment that today in his humanities lecture
on Darwin’s “Origin of the Species,” when he

stopped to admire the intricacies and beauty
of the language in the text, students imme-
diately defaulted to discussing social theory
and social wars. Carroll called this the CNN
effect, saying that we have lost that shared
culture experience of watching television be-
fore there were hundreds of channels avail-
able to us. “I worry that our students have
been brought up by CNN talking heads,” he
said. Perhaps this was some of his inspira-
tion for penning a number of readable books
on his findings.

Carroll has written eye-opening books
including “Into the Jungle,” “The Making of
the Fittest” and “Endless Forms Most Beau-
tiful.” His most recent work, “Remarkable
Creatures,” was the subject of Monday’s
presentation, celebrating the lives and col-
laborative work of scientists Alfred Wallace,
Charles Darwin, and Henry Walter Bates.

While Darwin officially developed the
original theory of evolution, his contempo-
raries Wallace and Bates were pioneering ad-
venturers, too. The three men became great
friends over the years, and together promoted
the theory of evolution. “Their voyages and
work,” Carroll said, “mark the first golden
age of evolution.”

He then went on to say why he believes
we are now in the second golden age. Our
range of technology, as well as partial DNA
sequences and miladon fossils as a record for
keeping genomes demonstrate our incredible
accomplishments in this field.

Immediately after the lecture, students
were already buzzing with discussion.
Shamita Punjabi ’12 appreciated more about
Carroll’s lecture than the pure content: “He
made it an emotional thing—it wasn’t just
science,” she said. “He brought a lot of pa-
thos into it, which made it special.”

Category III Election Results

Class of 2012

Class President: Chipper Jones
SGA Senators: Faheem Rathore and Jordan Starck

Honor Council:
Andrew Evans
Daniel Keller
Rebecca Weidler

Class of 2011

Class President: Elliott Campbell
SGA Senators: Rayna McKenzie and Ethan Dunn

Honor Council:
Courtney Tobe
Jenner Gibson

Andrew Wilkins

Class of 2010

Class President: Laura Sousa
SGA Senators: Jessica Givens and Lauren Robles

Honor Council:
Sarah DeLoach
Hunter Hedrick
Elizabeth Krebs
Chris Marsicano

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

The charter reform initiative for student
activities came one step closer to reality on
Thursday as Student Government Associa-
tion (SGA) President Davis Greene ’09 and
Senator Emily Cannon ’09 unveiled a pro-
posal to the SGA for public comment. As cur-
rently written, the reforms would alter limits
on how much organizations could spend on
student pay, which would have a particularly
dramatic impact on The Davidsonian.

The initiative was the product of discus-
sions between Greene and Cannon, who is
currently serving as Charters and Bylaws
Committee Chair. As part of that position,
Cannon was tasked with annually approv-
ing the charters of each student organization.
However, Cannon was given no criteria on
which to base that decision. Those charters
are a prerequisite to accessing the school’s
Student Activities budget, a fund paid by
one percent of tuition dollars that came to
$546,150 for the past academic year.

The reforms would divide student orga-
nizations into five hierarchical categories,
with additional privileges allotted to higher
organizations. Those categories would be:
Registered, Provisional and Charter I-III.
Registered organizations would have access
to basic resources, such as using rooms on
campus, holding fundraisers and being able
to recruit at the activities fair, though they
cannot obtain funding from the Student Ac-
tivities budget.

Provisional and Charter categories allow
for funding (with limits on funding defined
by category), but must adhere to membership
requirements, demonstrate a unique mission
on the campus and satisfy waiting periods
before moving to a higher classification.

SGA President-elect Meikaela Zwieryzn-
ski 10 voiced her support for this part of the
reform, noting that the membership require-
ment was connected to an organization’s lon-
gevity —if an organization was dependent on
the participation of a few key members that
then graduated, then that organization would
be more likely to stagnate and waste funds.

_ year, ading’o on Dee, i, 2609/The town
_ has the ability to opt out of the contract and

tinale - t pkosopié :

*

Davidson

grt money from the stimulus. 1am no
. sure how. the stimulus will help or ifi<

| shovel ready projects. We do not have many
projects of the size being looked at nor do ”
we have many shovel ready” projects, he

Everyone i is trying to figure it out

According © to~ their’. website;
jm-aq.com,,McAllister & Ouinn *
mid-sized government relations firm that

www,

and not-for-profit organizations before the
Federal | governmen 7 rot

y clients in addition to lobbying the. federa
“government,

“this strategic advice. “He has asked us to”
” yeach out to the grassroots level” of the

s Town. Manager, panes town’s citizenry, she saids

“will help2He indicated a certain amount.»
of general confusion about the role the ~ /
timulus package will play in funding town ©
projects.“The first round of stimutus is for.

- Legislative’ Assistant.“ “His network o
. contacts on Capitol Hill and knowledge ot

‘said. (“Tracking the stimulus is difficult.’

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009 3

The highest category of organization,
Charter III, will be allowed to spend up to
$5,000 of its budget on student pay (other or-
ganizations are barred from paying students),
capped at $1,000 and $750 for the two high-
est-paid members of an organization. In ad-
dition, total student pay would be limited to
less than 3 percent of the Student Activities
budget. If enacted, this would relax the strin-
gent rules on student pay, which are frozen.

Given the current criteria, the only Char-
ter II organization on campus would be the
SGA, The Davidsonian and the Union Board;
of those, only The Davidsonian’s $9,800 stu-
dent payroll violates the proposed limit. That
payroll is used to pay stipends to section and
copy editors, as well as business and circu-
lation mangers. In reference to the problem,
Greene expressed a desire to reduce the ranks
of paid staff at The Davidsonian, though he
was reluctant to demand reductions that
might reduce the quality of the newspaper.

Several representatives had comments on
the issue of student compensation. Senator
Jordan Starck ’12 said that he would prefer
a measure of accountability for paid student
officers. Representative Caroline Parke °11
elaborated, noting that The Davidsonian
competes with other on-campus publications.
Therefore, the newspaper and campus would
benefit from more accountability to the SGA
and Activities Tax Council, the body that al-
locates funding to student organizations.

Nevertheless, it is not guaranteed that
such changes could be achieved or practi-
cally enforced. The Davidsonian is unique
in that only some of its budget comes from
the Student Activities budget; it also receives
revenues from advertisements and subscrip-
tions. As Representative Hannah Pommer-
sheim ’11 pointed out, there would be no
way of determining whether The Davidso-
nian was spending independent revenues or
ATC dollars on student stipends.

Given the breadth of the reforms, no im-
mediate action on the proposal will be tak-
en. Such large-scale changes would require
changes to SGA and ATC bylaws, at least
some of which would require the student
body to vote on a referendum.

LS Oe

‘strategic - advice “and ‘ counseP’>-to “its

and, Levine indicated. thai
Dye has already’ started to give some 0

Dye. himself, according to his “bio a

on. the: firm’s website, “brings over 13 |
"years of. congressional, and government: a

»Congressiona! procedu

& Levine said that the ‘town, through | ;
Byer is “hoping to bang the drum really

“igcae loudly)” i in order to bring attention to its
projects.

“Hopefully it “ bring some good 4

