THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Marcu 25, 2009

ARTS

IVING

Friends, food, fellowship found at the Eco-House

MOoNIQUE Meche ot
Staff Writer

It is 6:30 p.m.—dinnertime. Not at
Commons or the Union Cafe, where trays
and baskets bend under the weight of sweet
potato fries and chicken parmesan, but at the
Eco House.

Tonight is spaghetti squash and vegetarian
chili, laid out on two massive tables dragged
together. Forks and dishes (real dishes!) are
passed along as the ten eco-housemates plus
guests chat and joke, settling down to have
dinner together: We eat, each diner in turn
divulging their ideal names for their first
child. Stories attached to the names come
up of course: about the proliferation of boys
named James, the coming generation waiting
to be named after Harry Potter characters, and
the family with three girls and a boy named
Faith, Hope, Charity and Dwight. I drink the
best grape juice I have ever had in my life,
washing down the squash noodles cooked to
crunchy perfection.

This is dinner at the Eco-house, the
brick building across Main Street designated
for eco-friendly living. Campus perceives
the Eco-house as the forefront for eco-
consciousness, living sustainably; it goes
beyond blue recycling bins and “Do It In the
Dark.” Living with the environment in mind
completely shapes the lifestyle at the Eco-
house.

The former offices for International
Student Services have been retrofitted with
double pane windows, with impending
projects for solar-thermal heating and
updating the house’s weather stripping and
piping systems, thanks to funds from the

en
danding, feasting and fundraising Balter’
was both fi Nami Pa and philanthropicall

a ar ee rs 2A am

The residents and guests of the Eco-House gather for a house dinner of spaghett

squash and vegetarian chili. They dine together once a week.

Green Grant. The housemates daily observe
the rules of their domain: compost waste,
take navy-style showers, plug out un-used
appliances and buy only organic and local
foods for their inviting dinners. The House
also sponsors and organizes environment-
awareness events on campus such as the
Clothing Swap, the annual Green Ball and
Slow-Food panel discussions.

Yet Eco-house living in its two inaugural
years has evolved beyond following rigid rules
of consumption. For individual housemates,
eco-housing has given them opportunities
to develop their personal interest in the

BEN IRELAND

environment. Housemate Lisa Landoe ’10
writes resource-conscious columns for
the Davidsonian, ranging from the use of
Palm Oil to poverty in post-war Liberia.
Sonia Huang *10, the house’s physical plant
liaison, researched sustainability technology
in applying for the Green Grant.

Asa group, the Eco-house has an intimacy
and communion different from the typical
tedium of dorm life. Buying only seasonal,
local food leads to creative and often
hilarious ways to prepare meals, from the
numerous methods of cooking squash (they
have a cookbook dedicated exclusively to

squash recipes), to finding ways to consume
three and half pounds of ostrich liver and 12
quarts of fresh honey.

Housemates set up life point challenges as
a solution, betting each other to find different
ways to use their supplies. The famous
cookbook “The Joy of Cooking,” by Irma S.
Rombauer and Marion Rombauer Becker has
become more that a guide but also a persona}
guru fondly referred to as just “Joy.”

Other books stack the shelves, collected
from present and past housemates, sharing
recipes, information and advice ranging from
the “The Onion— Our Dumb World” to “Fast
Food Nation.”

A white board in the dinning room
designates tasks to different housemates, as
well as announcements and funny messages.
Memories of late nights baking bread and
chatting are memorialized in quotes boards
around the house.

There is a family here—a community that
can only happen in a house with a real dining
table, as you share the food you personally
sought, and with which you wrestled and
experimented.

At dinner, I pass plates and piles of forks
to the next person and IJ think of my own
dinners at home, and about how much I miss
them, regardless of how fascinating dorm life
has been.

Beyond living harmoniously with the
environment, the Eco-housemates seem also
to blend cohabitation and dependence on one
another. With Davidson life so centered on the
delicate balance between work and college
drama, it seems nice to be able to escape and
live in an environment of important things:
food, nature and each other.

Hypnotist stuns students...sometimes

Senior Staff Writer

Witnessing over 30 Davidson students
convulse, fall asleep and even strip by the
snap of a finger was, well, baffling.

This past Saturday night, Michael C.
Anthony, internationally recognized on-stage
hypnotist, who has allegedly hypnotized over
15,000 people, made his seventh visit to the
Davidson campus.

VHI1 rates Anthony as, “the best stage
hypnotist on the planet.” Before the actual
hypnosis, Anthony kicked off the night with
an elaborate card trick. Who is to say that this
guy isn’t Chris Angel? Jeremy Snyder °09
was the evening’s first brave volunteer.

“Twas right up close to Anthony, so J could
totally see every one of his moves,” Snyder
said. “He’s got skill. Plus, Anthony’s blend
of comedy made it even more enjoyable.”

Then, the hypnotism began. Anthony
allowed any audience member to come up on
stage to volunteer. These students, including
myself, ran up to grab a spot.

Truthfully, for the sake of journalism,
I wanted to see whether I could actually be
hypnotized. Let it be known that, somehow,
I actually felt slightly entranced at several
moments, quite at ease and followed
Anthony’s commands.

Seeing that several other students and I
were unable to fully comply with his hypnotic
power, Anthony asked us to leave the stage.
The remaining volunteers, however, gave a
show to be remembered.

At one moment after the remaining
students were commanded to fall asleep
by a snap of a finger, Anthony made them
imagine that they were in the Bahamas,
suffering from the heat of a broiling summer.
Gradually, many of the male students began
stripping off their polos and tees, while the
females (whose shirts remained on) started to
pant hysterically.

Ever the charmer, Anthony C. Michael entertained students as he hypnotised volun-

teers, asking them to perform ridiculous and surprising tasks.

“I can say that I definitely fell asleep,”
said Neely Meeks ’09. “Even though at some
parts we were going along with the show, at
certain points, Anthony’s force was actually
very real. He is legit. No lie.”

One of the most hilarious highlights of
the show revolved around Kevin Cook ’09,
who immediately showed signs that he was
under a serious hypnotic spell.

From dancing romantically with a
broomstick that Anthony designated as a
beautiful girl to ardently insisting that his
name was “Cha-cha,” Cook demonstrated
that it is possible for the most innocent
looking of students to become victimized by
an intense hypnotic charm.

“It was hilarious to see Kevin on stage,”
chuckled Malissa Raulli, Kevin’s girlfriend.
“But, wow, did it get embarrassing at some
points!”

Elaina Reinsvold ’ 12 was also hypnotized.

“Going into this, I was definitely sure that I
could get hypnotized. After the show, I can
say that at certain points, it was real. It’s so
hard to describe.”

Among other humorous acts, Anthony
was able to make students smell their shoes
(which they believed to be oxygen masks),
believe that a belt was a snake and (certain
students) experience a sharp pinching pain
on their buttocks.

“I thoroughly enjoyed _ tonight’s
performance,” said Anthony. “You know,
having a show like this happen in a small
room makes it all the better. The crowd was
screaming, laughing and just having a blast
since the start. This is the kind of show that I
love. Thanks, Davidson.”

Ever want to become a stage hypnotist like
Anthony? Check out www.michaelcanthony.
com, and you will find that Anthony spills all
the beans for just $1,299.

ane ewer se ee Knee eww wee nes eowenwaee eee e Sheets tbd dbo er eocehebate teases aesearse. hoe
