THE DAvVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Punch

By Patricia REID
Staff Writer

Ever wondered what a mix of bluegrass,
jazz and classical music would sound
like? Chris Thile and the rest of the Punch
Brothers band did, and decided to make such
an eclectic music mix a reality.

Scheduled to perform as part of the C.
Shaw and Nancy K. Smith Artist Series
presented by the Union Board, the Punch
Brothers will be playing in Duke Family
Performance Hall on Wednesday, September
30. The Punch Brothers are sure to spice up
this fall’s entertainment lineup as they are
already the object of both critical and popular
acclaim.

Formed in 2006, the group tributes its
name to Mark Twain’s short story “Punch,
Brothers, Punch!” and consists of five

members: Chris Thile, Gabe Witcher, Chris.

Eldridge, Noam Pikelny and Paul Kowert.

Thile, a renowned mandolin prodigy,
released his first of five solo albums when
he was only thirteen. He later joined the
Grammy Award-winning group Nickel Creek
before helping to form Punch Brothers. A
combination of the mandolin and the group’s
other instruments (fiddle, guitar, banjo and
bass) creates their distinctive sound.

But the sound Punch Brothers generates
is not their only defining distinction;
additionally, a 40-minute, four-movement
suite titled “The Blind Leaving the Blind”
stands out as a unique achievement, too.

Near to Thile’s heart, this song
demonstrates the band’s deep emotional
investment to their music. About a
heartbroken man at a bar who is trying to rid
his life of pain, the song speaks to Thile’s
own personal experience. But Thile, while
in the midst of an agonizing divorce at age

Tour explores local farms

By RaAcuEL MULLINS
Staff Writer

This past Saturday Know Your Farms
held a farm tour with several area farms. The
event took place from 2-7pm and participants
had the option of choosing which farms they
visited. Davidson’s Eco House decided to
take a group on the tour, and at 2pm about
forty Davidson students and faculty met at
the Eco House to travel to four area farms.

I was lucky enough to join the group, and
the first farm we visited was Mary L Farm, a
fourth generation dairy farm owned by Rick
and Dorcas Parker.

At the dairy farm, we learned the special
procedures used to raise organic milk-
producing cows. The Dorcases strive to keep
their milk organic for economic and personal
reasons. They sell their milk to Organic
Valley, which means that the milk must meet
federal regulations.

Additionally, the Dorcases appreciate the
health benefits that they and their cows now
enjoy. In order for the milk to be considered
organic, the cows must be fed a diet that is
hormone free and they cannot be treated with
antibiotics.

The Dorcases have their cows’ best
interests in mind, though, and if a cow
becomes ill enough to need antibiotics she
must be sold immediately to a non-organic
farm that can treat her.

Next, we made a brief visit to Wild Turkey
Farms, where Lee and Domisty Menius raise
a variety of livestock for the production of
meat and other animal products. At the farm
many Davidson students bought pork, beef,

chicken and eggs. The Meniuses raise all of

%

26, steered away from alcohol as a coping
mechanism. Instead, he created a band and
found a support group from his friends in the
music industry.

Although its musical style remains

‘structured, “The Blind Leaving the Blind”

leaves room for each band member to add
a bit of individual flair while playing. No

their animals free-range and feed them grass-
only diets, creating a healthier environment
for the animal and more nutritious meat for
the consumer.

The next stop on the tour was Landis
Gourmet Mushrooms, owned by John Herron.
Herron’s farming methods are a world apart
from the more traditional farms visited on the
tour. For starters, the entire “farm” is inside
of a warehouse.

Inside the warehouse, Herron has a special
jab where he harvests and grows mushroom
spores. He then plants the spores into roles
of cotton and waits about two weeks for the
mushrooms to sprout. The entire process is
very unique, from the burning and rolling
of the cotton, to the special spore lab, which
must remain contaminant free, to the dark
dank warehouse ideal for mushroom growth.

The final stop on our tour was the Bradford
Farm. Here Grier and Kim Bradford both run
a farm and a store. The farm grows lots of
produce, which is then sold at the store along
with products from across North Carolina
and several other neighboring states.

Products sold at the store range from
produce to dairy products, locally made root
beer to grass fed meat. The store is located
on Highway 73 and is open Tuesday thru
Saturday. It is a great resource for anybody
interested in local food.

We returned to Davidson in the evening
with loads of produce, meat, and new-found
knowledge. We learned about the farming
that goes on around Davidson. While on
campus, students can easily forget about
the surrounding farms, and the tour served
as an important reminder of the agricultural
community in which we live.

onl

z

sine OE

LUE WOEIEE, HOE RT L
IS. Bese Git SRY URIS Sopan iss bh Bae

ip Vein Svan 8 ig 82. Bigs BG et OS Grasse |
Blongivn: ma Caaatry ant Vextons Fiddle |
Heng Ruts - Racavy Babar < Baddes CpSlowg
Fon Bonet ~ Cueday Toery > Roney Winns

Bvisd Gn Sige Bengrons Promusry wm Fugen ooo 2
Stsiipa a alison inert anemone: Ip

The Punch Brothers will perform one week from today in the Duke Family Performance Hall as part of this year’s Artist Series.

two performances are ever exactly alike,
and the audience catches a glimmer of
each musician’s personality from the brief
improvised interludes.

The forty minute song proves to be a
significant length of time for any musician
to perform such an enormous and highly
technical piece a single piece, but these

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

Cupcakes are simply irresistible! They’re
fun to eat; they’re delicious, and they’re
oh-so cute. Even the basic kind are sure to
be a hit, but a little creativity can produce
some even more mouth-watering treats. Use
any of these tips to spruce up your favorite
recipe (or a mix, if you must).

Add a fruity filling- Fill
paper cups only halfway
with the batter, add a
generous teaspoon of
your favorite jam in the
center and cover with
remaining batter. Bake
as usual.

If you’re using

a mix- Substitute

pumpkin puree, applesauce or plain yogurt
for the oil. You’ll reduce the fat and calories
in your cupcake while adding an interesting
depth of flavor (this technique can alter
cooking time, so be sure to check your
cupcakes a few minutes earlier than the box
indicates)

grass music

The Cook
Creative Cupcakes

°s Corner:

_ LIVING

Brothers hit school with blue

Tal

improvisations play a key role in the band.

Tickets, which are $8 for students, $15
for faculty and staff and $20 for the rest of
the community can be purchased through
the Union Box Office. Season tickets for all
five Artist Series events boast a 33% savings
off individual tickets and are available until
September 30.

Make Ice Cream Cupcakes- Bake
cupcakes as usual and let rest until almost
completely cooled. Then use a spoon to
poke hole in the top of each cake and fill
hole with any flavor of ice cream. Once
filled, place cupcakes in the freezer for at
least 2 hours. Frost and serve.

Add to the batter- Before spooning
batter into paper cups, stir in a
cup of any combination of
chocolate chips, raisins,
small apple chunks,
blueberries or chopped
walnuts or pecans.

Spice up your batter-
Adding a teaspoon of
cinnamon, nutmeg or allspice
can transform a simple batter.

Up the presentation- Once the
cupcakes are baked and frosted, top with
elegant shavings of bittersweet chocolate,
several coffee beans or a drizzle of melted
chocolate or thinned fruit sauce.

Cupcakes are fun—get creative and
experiment with them. You’ll likely end up
with a tasty treat!
