2 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

One of the exciting new opportunities of
this year of sustainability is the introduction
of the Green Grant program. Students with
ideas for reducing greenhouse gas emissions
and improving sustainability on campus can
apply for a grant of up to $2000 and see their
idea come to fruition. Through this program,
students can leave a lasting impact on cam-
pus and focus on issues that interest them in
regards to sustainability.

“Sometimes it is hard to know how to
get students involved in sustainability on
campus,” Sustainability Fellow Kealy Devoy
’08 said. “This program allows students to
personally get involved.” Three grants were
awarded this year.

Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12, Erin Betsch
711, Madeline Dick-Godfrey °12,, Anna
Stockamore 712, and Erin Keitel ’12 re-
ceived a green grant for an idea from their
Introduction to Environmental Studies class
last semester. All of the students had to work
in groups on a project in which they came up
with a feasible plan to reduce carbon dioxide
emissions produced by the campus.

When brainstorming, one of the girls
remembered having heard about a gym in
Oregon that converted the energy exerted on
workout machines into energy to power the
gym. The team called the owner and found
out information about a company called Re-
rev that can fix machines in this special ret-
rofit process.

When a person exerts force on a machine,
such as an elliptical, the circular motion can
be harnessed to a generator, which will go
back into a power grid. This power grid can
be wired straight into the building grid and
contribute to the power of the building.

The team got the grant and is now work-
ing with Rerev to decide how many elliptical
machines in the Union gym can be retrofitted
over the summer.

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

On April 18, the Davidson Biology De-
partment, in association with several local
and state conservation groups, will sponsor
Reptile Day. This event is an effort to help
the student body and the people of Davidson
learn more about local reptiles and amphib-
ians and efforts to protect them. Reptile Day
will take place in the Blanche Knox Parker
Memorial Garden, between Dana and -Wat-
son science buildings.

According to Dr. Michael Dorcas, 2009
is the ninth year featuring a Reptile Day,
which he describes as an “outreach to the
community about amphibians and reptiles—
especially ones that live near Davidson.” Dr.
Dorcas adds that one of the main goals of
the program is to dispel the negative myths
about reptiles that many people believe. He
believes that without an understanding of
these creatures, it is difficult to understand
their importance. “The first step to conserva-
tion is appreciation,” Dr. Dorcas said.

Reptile Day will feature a wide variety of
local amphibians and reptiles. Some of the
highlights are a six-foot-long black rat snake,
a young alligator and a snapping turtle. The
exhibit will also include many species of
frogs and multiple species of venomous
snakes such as the rattlesnake, copperhead
and cottonmouth. Dr. Dorcas will give a pre-
sentation about these venomous snakes at 11
a.m. and 12 p.m.

Peggy McKay 710, the student charged
with planning Reptile Day, said the goal of
the event is “to promote awareness about rep-
tiles and amphibians and the different con-

NEWS-
Green Grant program debuts

“The project is mostly for awareness,”
Valauri-Orton said. “We might not be able
to retrofit that many machines, but it will be
a visible education project. We also. want to
turn a comer of the gym into a green cor-
ner.”

This green corner would feature informa-
tion about how much power we use for even
simple tasks like charging a cell phone, and
advertise ways to cut down on energy use.

Sonia Huang ’10 is a resident of the Eco-
House. Her grant will be going towards ef-
forts to make the Eco-House even more sus-
tainable with several new retrofit appliances.

“Sometimes it is hard to
know how to get students
involved in sustainability on
campus. This program al-
lows students to personally
get involved.”

-Kealy Devoy ’0&

Kaela Frank ’11 received a grant to re-
vamp the clothing and furniture drive started
by the EAC five years ago. She wanted the
grant to assist forming a group with more
sponsorship and is working with RLO and
Physical Plant to get the drive started again.

Her grant will improve sustainability
by collecting things usually thrown away by
students moving out of their dorms at the end
of the year and donating them to various lo-
cal charities including Goodwill, the Salva-
tion Army and Lydia’s Loft.

“The collection is the hardest part,”
Frank said. “We are using the grant money to
buy reusable 50-gallon plastic storage bins to
put in residence halls to collect their leftover
food, electrical items, school supplies and
clothing that they would otherwise throw
away.” A separate box for furniture will be in
a different location.

One visitor enjoys learning about snakes at Reptile Day 2008.

WEpnespay, ApriL 8, 2009

Below are the circumstances and outcomes of the five cases con-
sidered by the Honor Council during the fall 2008 semester.

Aug. 30, 2008:
. Charge: Cheating
Plea: Admitted guilt
Result: F and 3 withdrawals for
spring 2008

Oct. 2, 2008

Charge: Cheating

Plea: admitted guilt

Result: F in 2 classes where
cheating occurred

Oct. 18, 2008

Charge: Cheating

Plea: admitted guilt

Result: F and 3 withdrawals for
fall 2008

_ mitory have been finalized for this summer
_ after a vote by the executive committee of
_ Davidson’s,, Board of Trustees RLO has. «
: | projected that the expenses, which include
“labor, furniture and electrical fixtures,-as

ye

sidewalk’ “repairs. and.a sprinkler system,

servation efforts.” Among the local groups
with representatives at Reptile Day will be
Davidson Lands Conservancy and Davidson
Parks and Recreation. State organizations
will include North Carolina Partners in Am-
phibian and Reptile Conservation, the North
Carolina Herpetological Society and the
North Carolina Wildlife Resource Commis-
sion. Despite the presence of these groups,
McKay described Reptile Day as “[entirely]
run by student volunteers.”

Davidson College’s efforts to protect lo-
cal reptiles and amphibians also include the
preservation of 92 acres of local wetland. Ac-
cording to Dr. Dorcas, the area was slated for

development, but Davidson had worked to
preserve the property since 2000. Recently,
Davidson’s efforts succeeded, as Mecklen-
burg County purchased the land to make it
into a nature preserve.

Reptile Day is open to both the Davidson
College student body and the local commu-
nity, including children.

Dr. Dorcas describes the event as “very
family oriented.” “Bring your kids,” he
added. McKay concurs. The main goal, she
agreed, “is to have a fun event where chil-
dren and community members can interact
with these animals and come away with a
greater appreciation.”

contacted her with complaints | that Cannon”
: .- dormitory. did not need repairs, or that oth

well as external site renovations suchas |

will come to $1,510, 7. This figure also’
5 i place i in the ete ad, of buildings to.

Oct. 28, 2008

Charge: Harassment

Plea: Not guilty

Verdict: Found guilty

Result: apology letter, required
counseling

Dec. 17, 2008

Charge: Cheating (2nd offense)
Plea: admitted guilt.

Result: F and 3 withdrawals
for fall semester and indefinite
suspension

aback, éby, a renovation, plan Associate
Dean of Students Patty Perillo explained.
in February: that a number of students had,

uildings are. in more urgent need of works,
Perillo ‘explained that. the: yoting coms:
mittee unanimously judged Gannon as the
residence hall most in need of renovation,
based on both its physical condition and its

‘the aa in ‘the: condition that if:
that Davidson and’ ‘its leadership feels that,
“this kind of expense is: necessary,” ‘Jamie.
Knowles’ 10 said of the project, However,
_committee members point out that the ese
‘timate is cheap and reasonable for such an.
important large-scale project, ‘considering:
“market prices and standard rates...

ean n Perillo seconded that "sentiment.
: ‘We. are very: mindful, of these: economic;
mes we are in, and President: Ross: has,
een. dutiful, thoughtful and, deliberate in,
aking this decision”. Perillo stated,

roject and. we are keenk aware that while,
ve are. finding ways. to feduce:and mini.
mize’ costs’ we ‘also. have the: ‘responsibil=
nsure the appropriate upkeep of our.
freasured architecturally-designed build2

Ge

and they: maké a lot Of noise all the ti
“explained Sydney Rockwell * 125 ‘aresid
‘of the dorm: “in compari n. to the. othe:

buildings, Cannon is ust ns

ee
