Tue DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Conservatism must adjust with times

As is to be expected, Republicans
have, since their losses in the 2008
election, been brooding over what
went wrong and how to make it right.
After eight years of a Republican
president who spent too much for a
self-described conservative and now
with a Democratic president who
seems to be fiscally irresponsible
by compulsion, it is tempting
for Republicans to begin again-
worshipping at the altar of the
ars balanced budget.

Doing so would be more than a
reaction to current events or recent history. It would tap into a
tradition of libertarianism in the Republican Party that many
today would renew. In addition to the interventionist foreign
policy of the Bush years, they tend to attribute Republican
unpopularity to profligate spending. They miss the point.
On the whole, the American people faulted Republicans for
perceived incompetence and perceived failure to understand
their concerns.

libertatis

\

This is democracy and, like it or.
not, the will of the people—right or
wrong — limits political parties.

In 2006, incompetence in Iraq and after Hurricane Katrina
drove voters from the GOP. And, in 2008, it was perceived
incompetence in handling the economy that did Republicans
in. Last year’s world felt like a scary place, and incompetence
doesn’t allay fear too well. However, Obama’s rhetoric did,
and the rest is history.

Those who explain Republican losses by pointing to a
deviation from conservative orthodoxy tend to think that all
they need is to find Ronald Reagan’s incarnation—having
already reaffirmed the 1980 platform themselves.

Allow me to make this clear: I think Ronald Reagan
was a terrific president and deserving of a high place in the
presidential pantheon.

But, while the fundamental principles of conservatism

haven’t changed since 1980, they must be applied in different —

ways because we, as it happens, face different challenges
today than we did then.

Fiscal responsibility is important and Republicans can and
ought to be more fiscally responsible than Democrats— this
appears easier each day. But, when thousands are losing jobs,
balancing the budget suddenly becomes uninteresting. This is
a democracy and, like it or not, the will of the people—right
or wrong —limits political parties.

So, while Republicans should lead the people and not be
led by them, they must address the concerns of their would-
be followers. To do so, Republicans ought to reclaim their
tradition of promoting social mobility begun by Abraham
Lincoln and currently trumpeted most loudly on the pages of
the New York Times by columnist David Brooks.

A social mobility agenda entails enabling Americans
to better their condition through their own talents and hard
work. It gives people opportunity and makes for a more
vibrant society by allowing the excellent to rise to the top.

In the short term, this means advocating a reduction of the
corporate and capital gains tax rates to encourage investment
and induce job-creation. In the long-term, it means fighting
for education reform, and, in particular, a voucher system
that would guarantee all Americans, regardless of income or
background, a shot.

It would also impel the government to step in and, for
example, address the dislocating effects of globalization with
job retraining programs.

Government ought to exercise a robust but limited role
in the economy. The free market is not an end in itself, but it
is, for the most part, the best means to a flourishing society.
Here’s the key distinction from the Democrats: whereas
they’re preoccupied with social equality, Republicans ought
to concern themselves with social mobility. Government
intervention in the economy is designed to enable, not ensure,
success.

The welfare state is here to stay. To fight it, as libertarian
Republicans would, would be to forfeit every election. Where
Republicans can succeed—and that includes being elected —
is in molding the welfare state to encourage the virtues that
make a flourishing as well as free society.

Zach Bennett ’11_ is a political science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contat him at zabennett@davidson.edu.

Drone strikes worst of bad options

Since taking office, President
Obama’s_ policy changes in
Afghanistan have been good ones,
and they will likely improve our
prospects for success. Although
Obama is still conducting his
strategic review of the Afghanistan
war, he has committed an additional
30,000 U.S. soldiers to the country,
pressed our NATO allies to increase
their own military commitments
there and many reports suggest that
the administration will attempt to
co-opt some part of the insurgency
there with a tribal militia program similar to the CLC/SOI
program that co-opted much of the Sunni insurgency in Iraq.
Hopefully, these steps will dramatically increase our ability
to provide security to the Afghan population and eventually
achieve, if not the kind of utopian liberal future sometimes
described by war supporters as an acceptably stable Afghan
state that is not a haven for terrorists.

Webster Doctrine

. Even with the best
intelligence these attacks will kill
civilians and enrage people.

Still, if Obama can’t get U.S. policy towards Pakistan
right, none of these steps will matter. In Iraq and in most
other guerilla wars, counterinsurgents have found themselves
“squeezing the balloon.” When the US cracks down in one
area, the insurgents simply move to another place rather
than fight, and then carry on their own attacks freely. In
Afghanistan, this is occurring in a particularly dramatic and
problematic way. After the initial success of the U.S. invasion,
the remnants of the Taliban and Al Qaeda retreated across the
border to Pakistan’s mostly lawless and uncontrolled frontier
provinces. The terrain there is so rugged that it is practically
impossible for Pakistan or Afghanistan to fully control
the border, and neither state has the political or military
infrastructure to effectively police it anyway.

Still, the primary objective of the Afghanistan war is to
deprive Al Qaeda of safe havens from which to attack U.S.

forces. If this problem isn’tresolved, then Al Qaeda can operate
out of Pakistan no matter what happens in Afghanistan; the
Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan will be extremely difficult
to defeat if it can take refuge across the border.

Faced with this prospect, the Bush administration began
Jaunching airstrikes against Al Qaeda and Taliban leaders
in Pakistan last year. Thirty-eight such strikes have been
carried out by unmanned Predator drones since last August,
under both Presidents Bush and Obama. While the Pakistani
military has provided some cooperation in secret with the
attacks, they are enormously unpopular in Pakistan, and the
current president, Ali Asif Zardari, is taking a tremendous
political risk to provide even tacit support.

The CIA reports that the airstrikes are very effective, but
even with the best intelligence these attacks will kill civilians
and enrage the people whose country is being bombed. The
problem is that neither the benefits nor the costs of these
strikes can be accurately measured, and it is unclear what
alternative policies exist. We simply do not know how much
the Pakistani military ’s complicity in this program destabilizes
Zardari’s government, or who might replace him if he were
to lose power. Similarly, we don’t know exactly how much
these strikes hurt Al Qaeda, or how capable of striking the
United States Al Qaeda will be if the attacks stop. Similar
Israeli tactics in the West Bank and Gaza have temporarily
disrupted Hamas operations, but at great cost: Israeli human
rights groups have found that 40 percent of the victims of
such attacks since 2000 have not been their targets, and many
of those killed have been women and children.

When the situation is so distasteful that policymakers
don’t even know. how bad the bad options they are pursuing
are, it’s time to look for alternatives. Leaving the fight against
Al Qaeda and the Taliban in these regions to the Pakistani
army, or even leaving these havens alone entirely would
be difficult decisions. They may, however, be preferable to
drone strikes, and I desperately hope that they are preferable
to invading Pakistan and fighting the Taliban and Al Qaeda
directly there. The terrifying thing about this situation is
that any of these choices could easily lead to catastrophe.
Whichever policy Obama chooses, it may end in failure, but
might also be better than the alternatives.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 25, 2009 9

d States, the. ssue lie in the fact “that, te
co's chaos 15 not self-contained; P People. are not only.
earing“in Iuarez/“In the past’-year, - Phoeni 3 f
0 me the : kidnapping capital of the. United States as.
rtels have. expanded their reign, Recently, U.S? analyst:

a

ave observed. nit loyalties i in the. Mexican / Arm

sae ex

ei eson, Ariz ee

> a
liens | (they found 128) ina Washingto

roe

DB)
n the days lowing Director of) Homeland Sew Fant
“she

Bescon i agency / charged with securing the oie

DB

n supposed. to do that job? G Sood news: fors
A Napolitans but bad news for oe postin ‘ig-that “Naney ®
iy bat ‘she Aold: a ‘Hispanic |

Et EA Yiiaantig.

0 break our la

rs
as vee. fie nts

/ apprekends illegal aliens , Aggressive

ig see By

| i ooking. or and. arresting

4

Ue ee

egal at
Dis for

act him at odespain@ davidson.ed

ital ib 8 GS cc RAS. wien

