THe DAVIDSONIAN

Lamenting newsprint’ s obituary

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

The internet era has not been kind to print news, and
2009 looks an awful lot like the beginning of the end for the
newspaper industry. The Rocky Mountain News, Colorado’s
oldest newspaper, printed its final issue in February. The
Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Washington’s oldest paper, closed
only yesterday. The Tuscon Citizen is shutting its doors
on Saturday, having served the city for 138 years. The San
Francisco Chronicle is under pressure to fold, while the Star
Tribune in Minneapolis and the Philadelphia Inquirer have
recently declared bankruptcy. Indeed, 2009 is shaping up to
be quite the year for printed journalism, and there will most
assuredly be a major US city without a newspaper by 2010.
While this may come as a shock, it shouldn’t; the industry
has been aware of this decline for years. More shocking is
that that many Americans are elated by the prospect of a less
traditional news market. Gadget-enthusiasts, bloggers, and
other members of the technorati are stunningly enthusiastic
about the recent closings, exhibiting a strange hopefulness
for a future where news is free, fast and fun.

Take Steven Berlin Johnson for example. He has been
running some of online news publication for the past 14
years, and he recently gave a speech at South By Southwest
Interactive Festival in Austin, TX. In it, he recalls the amount
and speed of information available to him during the 1992
election compared to last November’s. It should come as
no surprise that Johnson experienced the same change that
we all have over the past 20 years, with countless blogs and
websites now covering news that broke just seconds earlier.
Local communities have benifitted from online news sources
as well, with Johnson citing the hundreds of blogs dedicated
to covering Brooklyn alone. Reading his speech, it is easy
to see the new journalistic landscape as something truly
wonderful, with more comprehensive coverage moving at a
faster rate than was ever possible with newspapers.

Unfortunately, Johnson fails to recognize what makes
news useful, what makes news more than just an assortment
of related facts about the latest goings-on. Rapid-fire news is
not necessarily significant or of a particularly high quality;
if there is one thing we’ve learned from talk radio and the
network news it’s that fast and flashy news is fast and flashy,

PERSPECTIVES

nothing more. And while Johnson is right about an increase
in coverage of local news online, I’m afraid that local is all
the coverage we’ll get. Strong institutions with significant
economic weight are required to cover situations like Iraq
and Afghanistan, and there is nothing about the internet to
suggest that anything but a digitized newspaper model would
work to fund bureaus around the world.

Perhaps most worrisome is the drop in quality of news
that may come about with the decline of newspapers.
Reporting, writing and editing take time, which is a negative
quality when taken in an online context. Websites that can
break news faster than other sites are at a clear advantage
when it comes to popularity, and a lot of low-grade stories get
hits online because the writers sacrificed quality for speed.
Newspapers can afford fact-checking and quality research
because of the standardized daily timetable. Websites, on the
other hand, cannot. And when anybody can publish a website
or write for a blog, there is going to be a lot of poor writing
to sift through before finding a piece that actually advances
the conversation.

Bloggers and web-gurus like Johnson are often quick
to say that quality journalism will be easy to find after the
internet community has had the time to separate the wheat
from the chaff, using popular blogs like The Huffington Post
and The Politico as examples. What they tend to ignore is the
unfortunate fact that most of the news on these sités come
from traditional news organizations like the Associated Press
and Reuters, while The Politico gets most of its revenue
from its traditional print iteration. It should also be known
that popularity is often not a good indicator of unbiased,
quality journalism, as the massive followings of sites like the

Drudge Report show. This has been seen in print media as -

well, with many film critics being fired to make room for
more stories about Brangelina’s latest exploits. The technorati
do have one thing right, namely that quality journalism is
no longer sustainable with the current, traditional printed
format. Unfortunately, the same goes for the internet in its
present form. Until things change online, lament the passing
of America’s oldest and most respected news organizations,
and hope that something better will come along..

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from
Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu

GOP ignores real inefficiencies

For political parties, hard times
lead to a kind of schizophrenia, or
at least Attention Deficit Disorder.
Defeats might teach parties that
something needs to change, but
never what needs to change or how
it ought to be different. Today, with
Republicans still reeling from their
drubbing in November and Barack
Obama pushing a more aggressive
liberal agenda than we’ve seen in
ae : decades, the GOP’s ADD is giving

7A 4M 05-531 -408 us more rhetoric than we ever wanted
or needed about earmarks, wasteful
spending, and “fiscal responsibility.”

While the nuttiest incarnation is an across the board
freeze in spending (non-military, of course) proposed by
Virginia congressman Eric Cantor, a number of Republican
governors have been leading the charge as well. Several
southern sovernors, including such rising stars as Mark
Sanford of South Carolina and Bobby Jindal of Louisiana,
are promising to refuse some of the money provided to state
governments in the recently-passed stimulus package. Jindal
enjoyed the party’s most prominent stage to argue against
the stimulus when he provided the Republican response to
President Obama’s address to Congress. In it, he criticized the
provision of money for “something called volcano monitoring,
whatever that is.” John McCain rode an anti-earmark hobby
horse throughout his unsuccessful presidential campaign, and
he shows no sign of stopping. The Senator has been pointing
out supposedly wasteful earmarks from the Stimulus Bill
and President Obama’s budget for weeks, including the
following gem from McCain’s Twitter feed: “$650,000 for
beaver management in North Carolina and Mississippi — how
exactly does one manage a beaver?”

To be sure, “Beaver Management” sounds pretty funny.
In the course of figuring out what it was, I encountered the
phrase “beaver deceivers,” which is certainly good for a
chuckle or three. But it turns out that nobody is just throwing
money down a hole here. Beavers might be snigger-inducing
little critters, but they spend most of their time felling trees
and damming streams. “Beaver management” means taking
proactive steps to ensure that these furry engineers don’t flood
roads or damage homes — meaning that “beaver management”
is a perfectly legitimate public good. The same goes for

Webster Doctrine

Jindal’s volcano monitoring, which is exactly what it sounds
like: monitoring volcanoes so that people can evacuate before
they erupt. One would expect the governor of Louisiana to
be more concerned about saving people’s lives from natural
disasters, but that’s not what Republicans are looking for.

In fact, the dreaded earmarks of Republican dogma only
account for 2 percent of the federal budget, and the vast
majority of them aren’t even particularly wasteful. According
to the National Journal, most representatives and senators have
established an application process for prospective earmarks,
in which only a limited number of deserving projects
will be funded. Earmarks might be a convenient political
whipping boy, but they aren’t a large portion of the budget,
and they’re not really wasteful. To find wasteful spending,
one needs to look at the government spending that President
Obama proposes to cut. Obama has proposed reforms of the
federal student loan program, and in Medicare advantage. In
both cases, these programs provide a useful good—health
insurance coverage and subsidized student loans— indirectly
using private contractors. For those companies, the program
means guaranteed profits on the taxpayer’s dime. Cutting
out the middlemen on these programs would save tax dollars
without reducing services, but Republicans aren’t advocating
any such thing—after all, those middlemen have lobbyists
that small-scale earmark projects lack.

Even more controversially, Obama has pledged to
reform the defense appropriations process. Most of the new
weapon systems the Pentagon is developing are suffering
horrific cost overruns, and many of them, like the Army’s
Future Combat Systems, the Air Force’s F-22 fighter and the
Navy’s Zumwalt-class destroyer are designed for pitched
battles against the Soviet Union, not the wars we’re actually
fighting. Reforming this process and cutting some of the
more egregiously wasteful weapon systems would save tens
of billions of dollars. Obama has also proposed reforms of
the government’s use of private contractors that the Office
of Management and Budget estimates will save $40 billion
annually. These kinds of cuts and reforms might be less
amusing than volcanoes and beavers, but when the other side
is offering nothing but ignorant: grandstanding about fiscal
responsibility, it’s easy to see which party is interested in
solving our problems.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.

WEDnNEsDAY, Marcu 18, 2009

e thought. he. was a moderate’

Me

9

