2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

course, called the National Guard Warrior
Challenge, will be available. Festivities will
continue on Sunday from 4-7 p.m.

News

hopes to propagate its deeper ideals.
“The concept is to make college students
all across the country aware of fishing and

od

Davidson to host fishing championships

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

—ihe

want to grow the sport of fishing. We realize
to do that, you have to have a lot of excite-
ment and exposure.”

The upcoming North Regional Champi-
onship of the National Guard FLW College
Fishing Tournament promises to enliven the
Nov. 7 weekend in Davidson.

“If we’re going to produce a television
show on the world fishing network, broad-
cast across Europe, Africa and Asia, we’re

looking for a real, high-energy, fast-paced, .

modern show,” said Charlie Evans, President
and CEO of FLW Outdoors.

“Music plays a great part of that,” Evans
continued. With that in mind, the weekend
agenda includes a Battle of the Bands, show-
casing aspiring Davidson musicians.

Each of five selected ensembles is as-
signed a 45 minute slot to air original compo-
sitions and uphold the traditional playing of
the national anthem. Morning performances
at Blythe Landing will begin at the refreshing
hour of 6:30 a.m. on Nov. 7, 8 and 9, shortly
before the take-off of the fishing fleet.

Afternoon performances herald _ the
weigh-in ceremonies on the Village Green
at 3:30 p.m. each day. Each group receives
a handsome $50 for participation and judg-
es select a winning ensemble to star in a 30
minute gig before the final weigh-in ceremo-
ny on Monday. While playing for the lively
crowds on the Village Green, they may re-
ceive national television coverage on Versus
Country. Rewards also include a $100 prize
and 10 hours at a local recording studio.

On Saturday, head to the Village Green
from 12-7 p.m. for the Reel Life Festival.
Besides the classic raffle, a thrilling ropes

See complete list of who’s coming:
www.davidson.edu/careers

Attire: Business Casual

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES 414 ALVAREZ
WWW.DAVIDSON.EDU/CAREERS 704-894-2025

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES |
DAVIDSON COLLEGE | Box 7180 I DAVIDSON, NC 28035
704-894-2132 1] CAREERS@DAVIDSON.EDU

THURSDAY

NOVEMBER 5, 2009

3:00PM—6:00PM
a DAVIDSON COLLEGE
BROWN ATRIUM, ALVAREZ UNION

60 law schools attending, including:
Duke University, Vanderbilt, William & Mary, Cornell,
U of Maryland, U of Miami, Yeshiva, UNC, Columbia,
U of SC (Carolina & California), Boston College,
Notre Dame, Loyolas of LA, NO and Chicago,
SMU, Tulane, Ohio State, UGA, and MORE!

“We'd love to invite everybody out all
three days, especially on Monday, from 4-7
p.m. on the Village Green,” Evans said. “Ev-
erything is free.”

This flashy festival, however, is simply a
ribbon atop the fishing tournament. As Evans
said, “Music will attract attention and bring
crowds,” but the “rods” will hook them.

Twenty teams from a dozen colleges
and universities will launch off from Blythe
Landing in Huntersville every morning of
the competition. Star schools in the Northern
Regionals include North Carolina State Uni-
versity and Virginia Tech.

A team is a duet of fishermen, each of
whom can reel in a maximum of three live
fish. The pair with the highest combined
weight will be rewarded with a sparkling
new Ranger boat and a Chevy truck.

Moreover, the top five teams will pro-
ceed to the National Guard National Cham-
pionship to compete to win $20,000 for their
school. The grand prize winner of the nation-
als will proceed to face the world’s top pro-
fessionals in the Forrest World Cup with an
opportunity to capture seven digit sums.

The first nationwide program of its kind,
College Fishing is basking in the successes
of its first year. The association charges no
entry fee for competitions and grants stu-
dents travel expenses and boats.

Evans reflected optimistically on the last
regional, “It was just fantastic. It was a lot of
fun.” By offering college students this ven-
ue for lighthearted recreation, the program

the importance of taking care of our resourc-
es, keeping our waters clean,” he said. “We

The Davidson International Association put on its annual International Festival
this weekend, showcasing food, culture and performances from around the
world.

10/21/09

00:15 hrs
Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a cat on the porch of
apartment 201 of Flowe Dorm, 101 Martin Ct. Dr. The caller advised the cat had not
moved in sometime appeared to be sick. Upon arrival, reporting officer observed a
black cat sitting on a couch outside the apartment. Reporting officer advised dispatch
that animal control would be needed. Cornelius Animal Control arrived on scene and
removed the cat from campus. No further police action was taken.

Animal Control

10/21/09 18:00 hrs Suspicious Person
Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by Davidson student who was concerned
that an unknown male was trying to find her through Facebook. She stated that she was
at a Starbucks in Charlotte on Sunday October 18, 2009 waiting on friends to join her
when the unknown man started a conversation with her. He told her that he worked as
an engineer in Mooresville with an Indy 500 team. Complainant stated that she did not
give out any personal information, other than she was a student at Davidson College.
The unknown subject has been going through Facebook trying to get her contact infor-
mation, according to students on campus.

10/22//09 23:22 hrs Vehicle Storp

Officer observed a vehicle go through the stop sign at the intersection of Baker Drive
and Faculty Drive. The vehicle traveled through the stop sign on Baker Drive travel-
ing north past Faculty Drive. Reporting officer advised the Davidson student that his
vehicle also was in need of a student registration sticker. The driver believed that he did
not need one because he lived off campus and he only parked his vehicle on campus at
night. Reporting officer advised him that he still needed a student registration sticker for
his vehicle.

10/25/09 02:33 hrs Fight in Progress
Officer observed a fight in front of the BSC House, 122 Patterson Court Cir. As the offi-
cer started breaking up the fight the subjects left the area. The officer started questioning
people in the area about who was involved and the officer was informed that the fight
was between a former Davidson student and one of the football players. The officer was
not given the football players name. The officer spoke with the subject he initially came
in contact with who advised the officer that he was visiting some friends. The subject
stated that he and one of his friends had gotten into a fight and that all was all right now.

10/25/09 03:05 hrs Fight in Progress

Officer was advised by an Outpost employee that there was a fight going on in front of
Vail Commons. The officer observed about 15-20 people standing and yelling trying to
pull apart two subjects. As the officers approached the area, they overheard someone
yell “here comes the police,”and then everyone started running. The officers were un-
able to locate the subjects involved in the fight.
