THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Alternative breaks branch out
Interfaith collaborates on fall trip

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Over the course of the fall or spring, stu-
dents have the option of taking part in several
short-term alternative break service projects.
These projects are held every year and are or-
ganized and led by trained student leaders.

Past trips have included projects focused
on housing, disaster relief, homelessness,
youth issues, energy conservation and envi-
ronmental issues and have visited locations
such as New Orleans, Florida, Washington
D.C. and South Carolina. The Community
Service office pays for the Alternative Break
trips, but participants must pay $15 to reserve
their places; later during the trip, they can use
the money as a stipend to use as they wish.

One of the new fall break trips offered
this year is cosponsored by Davidson’s In-
terfaith organization, an organization where
students of any faith join together for meals
and discussion and to visit a variety of hous-
es of worship. Last year was their first trip
to Washington D.C., where the group visited
a variety of places of worship, including a

Court, from page 1

moved to a Monday to try to decrease the
importance of First Night Down, but I think
it will simply transfer all of Friday’s normal
shenanigans to a Monday night.”

While some strongly oppose the chang-
es, others favor them. “I feel that the new
Opening of the Court will be an improved
and more relaxed introduction to Patterson
Court for our first-years,” said former hall
counselor and current Residence Life Of-
fice (RLO) staff member Heath Pelham ’10.
“The change in date will enable the first-years
to enjoy the full Patterson Court experience
without the pressure to drink.”

As President of the Patterson Court Coun-
cil, Charles Brodsky ’10 explained that deci-
sions about First Night Down this year were
made with the intent to “create a scenario in
which first-year students are able to become
more comfortable with Patterson Court over
the course of the
week as we try to
maintain a_ safe
environment for
all students and
organizations —_in-
volved.”

Some students
believe the changes
are ultimately in-
significant. “I don’t
think that either
of the changes are
going to affect the
first-year experience,” said Jeff Banks °11,
a hall counselor on First Little. “There are
plenty of court parties, and while First Night
Down generates more excitement, I suppose,
than other nights at the court, it is really only
that: another night at the court. And by the
end of their freshman year, I think they will
have experienced more than enough of those
to compensate for the loss of one night.”

In past years, the “Big Brothers, Big Sis-
ters” program was informally organized by
hall counselors who paired first-year students
on their halls with opposite gender big broth-
ers and big sisters.

“It has never been organized by the
school,” Perillo said. “Most students would
tell me that these big brothers and big sisters
really just provided alcohol for the first-year
students.” Since Residence Life policy pro-
hibits hall counselors from supplying alcohol
to residents, this presented an issue. Even
though they weren’t directly supplying the
alcohol, by organizing a program that was
known for such behavior, hall counselors

“The traditions... moved in a way

So we’re making a change with

Mosque, a Buddhist Temple and a Greek Or-
thodox Church. The students involved also
had the opportunity to witness a traditional
Muslim wedding firsthand.

As with any alternative break group, they
also did community service. The group made
sandwiches and walked around D.C. in order
to give them out to the homeless. They also
built a trench in a community park so that
rainwater will not flood in the future.

Tiffany Pham ’12 described her partici-
pation in the Interfaith trip as “a great experi-
ence for me. I was able to learn about differ-
ent faith backgrounds, which allowed me to
see things in a different light.”

The interfaith trip, unlike other alterna-
tive breaks, is not financially sponsored ‘by
the Community Service Office. Participants
must fundraise around $150 from private
sources as well as organizations on campus.
Upon the students’ return, they visit spon-
soring organizations and share their experi-
ences.

An informational meeting about apply-
ing for alternative breaks will take place on
Wednesday, September 9 at 8:30 p.m.

were indirectly involved.

At the same time, campus leaders did not
want to eliminate the upper-class mentoring
that resulted from Big Brothers, Big Sisters.
“There’s so much wisdom that comes from
being a veteran community member,” Perillo
said. “We really want upper-class students to
do all that they can to share their experience
with the newest members of Davidson, but
we also want that to happen in a way that’s
safer and perhaps more inclusive.”

Although Cats Connect was never in-
tended to replace Big Brothers, Big Sisters,
its mentoring component maintains the posi-
tive guidance aspect of Big Brothers, Big
Sisters while eliminating the distribution of
alcohol.

“Tt is amentorship organization that seeks
to unify the student body through fostering
inter-class relationships,” said Pelham, one
of the co-founders of the two-year old Cats
Connect program.
“Our organization
is meant to provide
the first-years with
an upperclassman

that nobody intended or hoped for. who can offer ad-

vice and guidance
and simply be a

the hope that it keeps the good and friendly face in
lets go of the not-so-good.”
-Dr. Patty Perillo

a new environ-
ment.”

“Addition-
ally, Cats Connect
strives to better
Davidson, as a
whole, through service events that help to
bring the mentees and mentors closer togeth-
er as well as connecting them to the commu-
nity,” Pelham continued. “Ultimately, Cats
Connect seeks to promote trust, guidance and
accountability within the greater community
of Davidson.”

Perillo noted that these changes are not
intended to be intrusive. “It’s really about
trying to create an environment where fun
is done most safely. What we do know is
that we’ve got hard-working, high-achiev-
ing, smart young people at Davidson. At the
same time, they apply that kind of hard work-
ing mentality to their play, which creates this
real high intensity play, and when you couple
that with alcohol it has a tremendous poten-
tial negative impact.”

“The traditions of First Night Down and
Big Brothers, Big Sisters moved in a way
that nobody intended or hoped for,” Perillo
said. “So we’re making a change with the
hope that it keeps the good and lets go of the
not-so-good.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

ee gS

Last Thursday in the 900 Room, Vann Center for Ethics director David Perry
delivered his lecture, “Ethics and War in Comparative Religious Perspective.”

4 Z

avidsonian.

Be

run organizations:

hg tes

other

