12.

Tue DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESSAFARIDAY,
Fesruary 11, 2009

eT]
Behind Robinson’s 28, ’Cats top Elon, halt skid ; Black Saturday:

Home, SoCon streaks
end as Cougars nip
Wildcats 77-75

Amanda Ottaway 42 pulled down four
rebounds in the ’Cats’ win at Elon, end-
ing the team’s six-game losing streak.

OHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, the women’s basketball
team finally breathed a sigh of relief—it
erased its stinging six-game losing streak.
Defeating Elon 79-65, the ’Cats are riding a
wave of confidence that hopefully rolls past
Monday’s loss to Greensboro.

On the bus to Elon, Head Coach Annette
Watts asked each player to express her con-
cems about the coming game. By the end of
the 40 minutes, most of these fears had been
assuaged, including the most prevalent one:
that the team wouldn’t have enough fun on
the court.

After losing six straight, fun should not
be underestimated or overlooked. After a two
hour trip, the "Cats came out looking alive
and energized. Their confidence was back
and their defensive fire had returned. Most
of all, it looked like they were having a heck
of a good time.

Mercedes Robinson ’09, particularly, de-
cided to show off her player-of-the-year po-
tential. She dropped 28 points and gobbled

up 12 boards for her lucky 13th double-dou-

ble of the season. Alex Thompson *10, with
14, and Ashley Lax 711, with 17, rounded off

a trio of double-digit scorers.

Though Davidson started the first half
cautiously — it’s typical tempo the past few
games — the team maintained more compo-
sure than its opposition — atypical during the
losing streak. Against yet another press from
yet another speedy team, the ’Cats crossed
the court with poise, frequently dishing the
ball to Robinson as she coasted across half
court.

Elon, an admittedly young and scrap-
py bunch, was held to less than 40 percent
shooting, while Davidson nearly hit half of
its shots. By the end of the game, the Wild-
cats’ experience and tenacity could not be
matched. After an Elon player hit back-to-

_ back triples to narrow the lead to eight, Lax

and Thompson responded with their own pair
of threes, sealing the victory.

Two days later, back to a stressful Mon-
day night on campus, the ’Cats again opened
with a slow-paced first half. This time,
against a hotshot squad of Spartans from
UNC-Greensboro, the home team was not
able to overcome its early slip-ups.

While Coach Watts will undoubtedly
hammer her team for allowing 45 points in

See Elon, page 1]

Women’s Tennis improves to 3-1 with home sweep |

IAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s tennis team
dominated play at Knobloch Tennis Arena
this weekend, defeating Wingate 7-0 and
Liberty 5-2 in a double header on Saturday.
While the basketball team garnered the atten-
tion, the women’s tennis team quietly gave
the best performance Saturday. The Wildcats
moved to 3-1 on the season with two non-
conference home wins.

A stellar all-around team performance
fueled the success of the women’s tennis
team on Saturday. The Wildcats were lead
by the scorching forehand of Virginia Berry
10, who swept each of her four matches.
Ali Gores ’10, Samantha Galainena ’11 and
Molly McDevitt 712 all earned three wins
on Saturday and Katharine Dicconson ’12,
Molly Verlin ’11 and Galainena all earned
their first singles wins of the season. Verlin
and Dicconson were competing for the first
time this Spring and they did not disappoint.
Verlin dropped only one game in a 6-1, 6-0
trouncing at No. 6 singles while Dicconson
did not drop a single game, defeating her No.
5 singles opponent 6-0, 6-0. This quality play
across all singles and doubles matches fueled
a successful Saturday for the women’s tennis
team.

The Wildcats defeated Wingate in their
first match. The. women showed no mercy,

sweeping all singles and doubles matches

—___ *
Ll

ee

to win 7-0. Berry dominated the match; she
dismantled her opponent at No. 1 singles
6-1, 6-1 and captured an 8-1 win at the No.
1 doubles spot with Alison Rauh ’11. McDe-
vitt followed Berry’s lead, winning her No. 2
singles match 6-3, 6-2 and her No. 2 doubles
match with Michele Fanney ’09 8-2. Dicco-
nson was the third Wildcat to tally multiple
wins in the first match; she won her No. 5
singles match 6-0, 6-0 and her No. 3 doubles
match 8-1.

Liberty did not fare any better against the
Wildcats. Davidson continued to play at a
high level despite competing in their second
match on the day and won the match 5-2.
The Wildcats remained perfect in doubles
competition against Liberty, again sweeping
all three matches. After securing the dou-
bles point, the team won four of six singles
matches to earn the victory. The unbeatable
combination of Berry and Rauh won again,
dropping only one game in an 8-1 smother-
ing at No. 1 doubles. Fanney/ McDevitt and
Gores / Galainena captured the No. 2 and No.
3 doubles matches, winning 8-5 and 8-1 re-
spectively.

Fanney replaced Berry. in the No. 1
singles position against Liberty and did not
disappoint; she cruised to a 6-0, 6-0 victory.
Berry, playing at No. 2 singles, moved to 4-0
on the day with a 6-2, 6-2 victory. Gores and
Galainena ensured the Wildcat victory with
win at the No. 5 and No. 6 singles slots, re-
spectively.

Virginia Berry 10 and Alison Ruah 1
celebrate a point during their doubles
victory over Liberty Saturday.

ae

The combined success of the experienced
team members like Berry and Fanney and the
emergence of sensational freshmen play by
McDevitt have the Wildcats riding a three
match win streak. Davidson will look to ex-
tend this streak on Valentine’s Day when they
travel to take on Virginia Tech. This match
marks the beginning of a rough stretch for
the women, who plays five of their next six
matches on the road against non-conference
opponents.

~ ————

Player of the Week

Virginia Berry “10

WOMEN’S TENNIS

SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA

Berry posted an undefeated record on the weekend as
she won both her doubles and singles matches in both
team victories over Wingate and Liberty on Saturday.
With the wins, the ‘Cats improved to 3-1 on the season.

Q oto:by:Aaron R Robinson aaa
Bryant Barr *10 tallied 16 points in the
’Cats’ loss to Charleston.

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s basketball team received a
sobering reminder of its mortality Saturday
night, falling to College of Charleston 77-75
and also saw its 43-game conference winning
streak come to an end. The Wildcats knocked
off UNC-Greensboro 75-54 the night before.

The conference winning streak was end-
ed one game short of the all-time record of.
44, established by the Jerry West-led West
Virginia teams from 1956-60. It also saw
the end of a 27-game home winning streak,
which was the third-longest in the nation.

Stephen Curry ’10 led the Wildcats with
25 points, but scored only six in the second
half while shooting 1-11 in the frame. Bryant
Barr °10 contributed 16 second half points
while Andrew Lovedale ’09 posted 13 points
and seven rebounds, Tony White, Jr. led four
Cougars in double figures with 19 points,
while Jermaine Johnson recorded 11 points
and 12 rebounds.

Forward Antwaine Wiggins, standing at
6’7”, contained Curry for most of the second
half, capping his efforts by rejecting Curry’s
three-point attempt from behind as time ex-

| pired. Down by two with 2.2 seconds to play,

Davidson travelled the length of the floor,

with Ben Allison ’11 passing to Will Ar-

chambault ’10 who flipped the ball to Curry.

Curry dribbled once before hoisting his shot’
from the right wing that was destined never

to reach its target.

See Blackout, page 10

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Late three-pointers seal streak-
ending victory at Elon

With the Wildcats looking to end their six-game los-
ing streak, they had a comfortable lead on the road at
Elon, but the Pheonix were charging back when Ashely

Lax ‘11 and Alex Thompson ‘10 hit back to back to
three’s at the 1:37 and 1:11 mark to seal the victory.

