THE DAVIDSONIAN

Curriculum, from page 1

faculty members earlier in the process to get
as much timely feedback as possible, “about
two-thirds of the faculty emphasized global-
ization, diversity and inclusivity and interdis-
ciplinary studies as aspects they’d like Da-
vidson to aim for.” The objectives described
above reflect those opinions.

“Davidson has never reviewed its Strate-
gic Plan or its curriculum on such a broad
scale, so this is a much bigger process than
anything we’ve ever done,” Swallow said.

As is to be expected when institutions
anticipate change, there are some concerns
about the Curricular Review, and more will
probably arise. Yet “this is not a change in
our core values, and we will continue to af-

Shades of Brown, Davidson step team, performed this past Monday in an im-
promptu performance at Vail Commons. They are scheduled to perform at Live
Thursdays this week for a Black History Month special.

oto by Shantay Mobil

firm our commitment to honor, leadership
and service,” Green affirmed.

“People are always a little resistant to
change,” SGA _ president-elect Meikaela
Zwieryznksi ’10 said, “but the entire process
is to make Davidson better. This is a time for
dialogue and getting feedback. Everyone is
open to new ideas and to genuinely look at
what needs to change.”

To include students in this process, SGA
is holding a series of Academic Policy Fo-
tums that students can attend to learn more
about the curriculum development plans.
SGA encourages students to attend, because
as Green said, “We have an up-to-date opin-
ion on what we need from Davidson, and we
can help the college identify what we could
do better to strengthen our mission.”

ABERNETHY AWARDS
ROUND 2

APPLICATIONS DUE:
2/27/09

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernety
Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives
by current first year, sophomore, or junior students.

Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research, either in the US or

abroad.

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during
the academic year or the summer.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited
to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice
President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed
application forms are due back in this office no later than
5:00 p.m. on Friday, February 27, 2009.

The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam
period of the spring semester.

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

In a meeting that was at times tense, the
faculty Educational Policy Committee (EPC)
met with the Student Government Associa-
tion (SGA). The central issue of the meeting
involved the prospect of attaching cover let-
ters to outgoing transcripts.

The SGA has passed three resolutions
in the past academic year, each granting
students the option of attaching a cover let-
ter that would (in its current form) include
information about the college and statistical
information about the GPAs of the top decile
and quartile in each class.

The EPC has yet to approve a cover let-
ter; students currently may send a “class
profile’—available at the Registrar’s of-
fice—separately from their transcript. The
class profile breaks down GPAs by quartile
for a given class and includes some informa-
tion about the college and the number of stu-
dents in each major.

The cover letter initiative began in re-
sponse to data release last year that showed
that Davidson had the lowest mean GPA in
a sample of 11 of its peer institutions. This
information prompted concerns that the rela-
tively low GPA of Davidson students may
limit their opportunities after graduation.

Vice President of Academic Affairs and
Dean of Faculty Clark Ross began the meet-
ing by saying that he saw it as an administra-
tor’s responsibility to balance the interests of
students, faculty and future students, while
EPC member and Associate Professor of
English Ann Fox was concerned about the
substantive negative effects to students who
were not in the top quartile. She mentioned
a hypothetical situation wherein students ap-
ply to the same job or graduate school, but
only one opts to submit the cover letter.

There was also a concern over what Fox
termed the “rhetorical” implications of the
cover letters. Independent Senator Severin
Tucker ’09 pointed out that he was worried
that the cover letters reflected an emphasis
on GPA and a need to communicate how

; Courses in a science department to ¢om
lete a major under the 3/2 program,

as stated that its pre-law concentration is”

Pre-Law Society (PLS), Their goal is to,
give. students at Davidson insight into the
_ approaches into law school and give-them.

_ the background knowledge to make. an edu
"cated decision, about the: possibility of law

‘have to major in Religion Studies for the
_ For the past couple of months Davidson *

S

under construction. Although technically equal appropriatenes

‘ concentration does not exist yet; there i.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009 3

“hard” Davidson is to those not familiar with
it. Associate Professor of Russian Amanda
Ewington mentioned that letters of recom-
mendation should communicate the culture
of Davidson and the quality of students in
more detail than a cover letter could.

Fox also mentioned that there was no
clear evidence that students were suffering
as a result of their relatively low GPAs, to
which students responded that many gradu-
ate and professional schools have firm GPA
cutoffs for applicants. Registrar Hansford
Epes ’61 pointed out that such GPA cutoffs
exist to minimize the reading employers and
admissions committees would have to do:
therefore, there is no indication that a cover
letter would be read or would then excuse a
GPA that was below the cutoff.

Epes also described other practical con-
cerns with cover letters and how they might
be perceived in the real world. In particular
Epes was concerned that a cover letter from
Davidson would have the same effect as “an
excellent book-jacket blurb written by the
author’s brother-in-law.”

No action on the issue was taken, though
the topic will be revisited in future meetings
of the EPC and its student counterpart, the
Academic Policy Committee.

Also featured in the SGA meeting was
a report from the Admissions and Financial
Aid Committee. Committee member Laura
Cepeda ’10 gave some primary information
on the class of 2013. She noted that early
applications were up 20 percent and overall
applications were up 1.2 percent.

More admissions were granted from the
following demographics: legacy students,
North Carolinians, African Americans, first-
generation college students and men. She
also talked about changes that will be made
to the financial aid system, in particular
work-study: students who fail to work their
entire allotment will be charged the differ-
ence. The policy is in response to a decline
in students working far fewer than their allot-
ted hours. This behavior forces the college to
hire workers in place of students, increasing
the cost of the program.

logical. schools. English,’ + Art History, Psy.
» chology, the Sciences or Philoso hy are

“The Army’ ROTC” program “entails the:
_ following: “a leadership development pro-;

~ gram that allows students to learn and ap

ply: leadership. principles. through colleg
courses, physical training, laboratory exel
