THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

The ups and downs of competition

ALLEN SMITH ’8
Guest Columnist

It may seem illogical for someone who worked hard
enough in high school to become valedictorian or while at
Davidson to graduate cum laude to not think of himself as
competitive. But, I’ve never liked to think of myself that way.
Sure, I sensed that I was competitive, but something about
it seemed like a vice to me. Maybe the self-centeredness
lurking behind the desire to be number one struck me that
way. So, I tried keeping that side of me under wraps as much
as possible, while still going about my studies and then later in
life my work in the business-to-business publishing industry
in a highly competitive way.

There can be an obsessive side to
competitiveness that seems just plain
unhealthy and feeds off itself.

I don’t think I’m the only one who’s approached
competitiveness this way. In fact, I think it may be fairly
common among overachievers, like the students who are
drawn to attend Davidson. The greedy impulse to win doesn’t
seem too far off from just plain greed.

There are also the tremendous downsides that can attend
winning at all costs. These downsides may include ethical,
social and health problems, among many others I no doubt
am overlooking. How often have I been short with others
because I was working on some assignment that just had to
come first? And how often have I gotten all knotted up about
whether I’d done things exactly right. Absurdly often. There
can be an obsessive side to competitiveness that seems just
plain unhealthy and feeds off itself.

There are considerable upsides to competitiveness as well
though. The thrill of victory isn’t just some tag line for ABC
Sports--it’s real. Just ask any elementary school kid clutching
onto a blue ribbon after a swim meet.

One of my best friends from Davidson lately has me
thinking about the upsides of competitiveness. This friend
and I were in one of those packs at Davidson that prides itself
on setting much of the rest of the college at arms’ length.
So, come Midwinters one year, Sarah Roberts *89 (now
Sarah Roberts-Witt) took a cardboard cutout as her date with
“Chris” painted down his front side. On a double date.

And when at some Davidson pep rally, the cheerleaders
dropped poster boards with “Davidson Wildcats Beat” and
whoever Davidson was playing fall to the basketball court,
she and a friend of hers picked up some random letters that—
almost as if by magic— when put together spelled “Suck Me”
and paraded around campus with their discovery.

Those wacky alumni stories are the ones I now share with
some embarrassment, since alumni were among the ones we
parodied the most. We laughed like we were the funniest. If
we couldn’t be the smartest at Davidson, maybe we could be
the smart assiest.

Sarah now is a mother of two who no doubt would cringe
to hear me share these stories. This child of Asheville, where
morning’s just like living in a poem if you believe those
hokey old North Carolina ads students these days are of
course too young to remember and laugh at, has moved since
graduating from Davidson to Washington, D.C., to New York
to San Francisco and then back to Raleigh while pursuing a
career in journalism that has taken her to PC Magazine on
Park Ave. and into her own burgeoning career as a technology
freelancer, while running marathons to boot.

Until her time in one race was inexplicably slower than
usual. And other health problems cropped up. And she then
went about a year and a half without any doctor being able to
figure out what was wrong with her, until she finally found
someone who realized, unlike some other doctors, that this
was not all in her head. That was the good news.

The bad news was she discovered she had primary lateral
sclerosis (PLS), which is similar to Lou Gehrig’s (amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis), but slower. Sarah now has lived with PLS
for more than five and a half years. She can’t walk or speak
above a whisper, but she can and has once again organized an
annual competitive road race in Raleigh this Sept. 13 that will
attract hundreds of runners.

Sarah’s egging us all on, teasing me about how the mother
of her husband has raised way more money than I have and
asking all participants to really get competitive and raise more
money to help find better treatments and, hopefully, one day,
a cure. Phyllis Witt is way, way ahead of me in fundraising.
But there’s a part of me that can’t give up on maybe being
number one. I’ve posted pleas for people to sponsor me on
social networking site after social networking site (this hasn’t
worked for me) and to friends (this has). It even occurred to
me that if every student and professor at Davidson sponsored
me for $10, I might sprint out to first in fundraising. Far-
fetched? Yes.

That’s not keeping me from going for it anyway (to
donate, visit http://www.active.com/donate/magmile2009/
AllenforSarah2009). And to have a new-found appreciation
for some of the possible benefits of being more openly
competitive.

Allen Smith ’88 has an essay in the University of
Wisconsin's anthology, My Diva: 65 Gay Men on the Women
Who Inspire Them (2009), and has published a chapbook of
poems, Unfolding Maps (Pudding House Publications (2009).
Originally from Durham, NC, he lives in Alexandria, Va., with
his partner. Contact him at allensmithathome @yahoo.com.

The struggle of the disempowered

David SHERMBECK
Guest Columnist

In the most desolate areas of the most underdeveloped
places, people still exist. And those people, no matter the
miles away from us, share common experiences, beliefs and
indoctrinations.

Each of us is able to look at something around and see
ourselves within it. Whether it is a piece of physical nature,
a degree of sculpture, another artistic creation, or another
human being, when this reminder is found our uniqueness
dwindles. Society repeats itself, both for the good and the
bad. The same thoughts run through the minds of several of
us and the great difficulties of each generation continue to the
next, withstanding the bombardment of political movement,
grassroots efforts and charitable foundations.

The beginnings of unified societies
start with relationships, not the
material.

But we keep trying to create unique lives.

The ideals and the preconditions of the societies each of us
are born into, more often than not, lay the foundation for the
lives we will lead. Of course, exceptions will always exist. Yet,
even in the cases of the unlikely success, repeatedly there is a
factor that points to a higher future status than they were born
in to. Hard work alone doesn’t cut it; the interwoven strands of
society play a far greater impact on the outcome of a person’s
life than the person themselves.

Some would argue this is an invalid argument, and their
prerogative is acknowledged. But the inability to see the world
through the lens of a poor child if you are a wealthy one, or
from the perspective of a white-collar executive if you man an
assembly-line is what is contributing to the tearing-seams of

societies everywhere.

As the world becomes menacingly smaller in the political
and economical sectors, many have chosen to shelter
themselves or due to the heightening magnitude of the big
business, are left to fend for themselves. Not only in the
known-to-be underdeveloped areas of the world, but in the
seemingly put together United States.

And others seem to follow. The mega-corporations
dangle low-prices and shiny advertisements in front of some
and they form a line behind their neighbors, unknowing of
the destruction they are causing to the faraway places, the
future children, and to their own backyard. The dollar trumps
everything today. Low prices always beat a ‘hello’ as you walk
in the store. And the undeniable consumerism of the world is
creating societies who will never accept establishment as long
as it deters their ability to obtain superficial wealth.

The worldis getting smaller, yetour pocketofacquaintances
is becoming less diverse. Only if this continues will we see the
unfortunate slide more severely into poverty and the radicals
of society move themselves into power.

And hidden within every community, in every state, in
every nation of the world, are people waiting for others to agree
and join the struggle to allow society to see them. Money, food
and clothes are only secondary necessities in most situations.
The beginnings of unified societies start with relationships,
not the material.

As students who painstakingly believe in creating a
positive world for all, many of our own are slowly beginning
to fade into the background of their communities. The societal
wounds must begin to be mended for those who most do not
see. It would be too costly not to.

Move. Fight. Create.

David Shermbeck ’13 is undeclared. He is from Holly
Springs, NC. Contact him at dashermbeck@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, SPETEMBER 9, 2009 9

Guest Columnis

_ Barack Obama has been the President. of the United”
tates for almost nine months, and journalists. are already
- _taking his head off over’ fumbled policy and. bad poll,
numbers. New YorkTimes Op- -Ed Colummist David Brooks:
"said in his article on September 1%,* “Obama's job approval.
4s down to about 50 percentAll presidents fall from their’
honeymoon highs, but in the history of polling, no newly ]
elected American president has fallen this far this fast,?Jt
, astonishing to me that the editorialists and opinion-makers.
in the media are already calling this presidency a failed -
“effort.” They say that the executive’ branch has lost touch /
_ and that it is losing the health-care battle. My qualm is that.
_Obama’s presidency is not even 25 percent over: In fact; t
_ is marginally over 10 percent complete (15.9 percent as
Wednesday the 9" to be exact), So I say, let the man work!
In his first two hundred thirty-three days. Obama has.
Signed the Ledbetter Fair Pay: Act, the Children’s Health |
Insurance Reauthorization. Act, The American Recovery and.
Reinvestment Act; the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America.
‘Act, weapons Legislation, credit card reform and the Cash_
é for ‘Clunkers Ex nsion info law. Not to mention the other,
“proclamations, ‘executive orders and less glamorous bills:
that are required to keep our country ‘operating.
Remember the first: months: of President. George
ush’s administration?” Right ‘out of the gates, he: took,
long” vacation to his ‘ranch in. Crawford, Texas: ‘rather.
than focusing on the nation’s business.” ‘He then ran. what.
historians’ will: call one ‘of: the worst. administrations : AM:
op Ym not. just Bush-bashing here; during.
his ‘eight years, I would have yoted for him twice, but what:
he advertised i in his < campaigns was not what he delivered.
to the American public, {Except ‘for staying the course, “i

; Eeaties and hada ae surplus. It feft our nation trillions.
of: dollars i in debt and deep i in the throes of 1 two losing wa

I know ‘the media has a job to do and column inches to
but, for God’s ; sake, the man won, with 365 electoral:
otes. Hehas the right and mandate to implement his policy,
sion on our country, and, only y after hei is $ done should th
edia judge his performance
During the election, Barack Obama dre apicture f the.
erica he envisioned: the public bought into his plan and-
ed him president with overeight anda halfmillion votes
spare. It was the. will of America to elect this visionary,
president, and nobody: has the, aight = not the media, not,
ur legislators, not Republicans, not even Democrats = tO.
uander his vision, which the ‘general public So, clear! y
demanded on November 4". vylogiee
SO now, as Obama sheds his
that oncé reached into the 70% range for favorability: it is’
the job of the media not to criticize but to demand that the?
President c come through | on his. promis 2s on the behalf of
ose with a smaller voi /The public asked for the Obama”
‘Plan. This president ] has the: ‘medicine. to fix the America

yho oppose a oS administrAtion’s healthcare proposals) thes
Po onthe the media should: ‘focus as. the: President:

good deed for the public by leveling the playing field and.
, allowing those ‘with no voice to be heard/The media should

: _ healthcare gets compromised; tadleney bea on areport!
_ card full of At initiatives that Obama will oversee during’
ohis first term as president. Finally ,if we decide as a country”
_ in the next election that the first term of President Obama.
«has beena failure, we get to remove him from office; that’s
«the beauty of our democracy But for now. ‘America voted:
_ for Obama and deserves to be given the government that
it asked for. The media, the opposition, and the Democrat:
_should fall into line and follow-this distinguished leader.
; They should let the man n work because eit he is constrained ;

