4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AROLINE Woop
News Editor

Last mght, Dr. Curtis Evans spoke on
“The Problem and, Potential of the Black
Church” in the first lecture of the 2010 Otts-
Maloney Lecture series, entitled “Black and
White Christians in the Racial Struggle.”

Dr. Anne Wills opened the lecture with
an introduction welcoming both Dr. Malo-
ney, in whose honor the lecture series was
endowed by the Thomas Jefferson family,
and the evening’s speaker, Dr. Curtis Evans.
Wills explained that she remembers having
Dr. Maloney as a professor of Ethics while
at Davidson, where he taught such courses
as “King and Nonviolence” and “War and
Conscience.” Wills said that Maloney’s-in-
tensity “could have intimidated us, but we
quickly learned of your compassion, gift for
fellowship, scholarly presence and pastoral
presence.”

Wills then introduced Evans, whose 2008
book “The Burden of Black Religion” she
called her “favorite book of 2008..and maybe
2009. and 2010.” Evans is Assistant Profes-
sor of the History of Christianity at the Uni-
versity of Chicago School of Divinity, where
he studies cultural representations of African
American Religion as well as the relationship
between churches and social reform. Evans
has been published in “Journal of the Ameri-
can Academy of Religion,” “Church History”
and “Religion and American Culture.”

News
Dr. Curtis Evans discusses race and religion

Evans began by presenting two points he
believed must be held in tension in any con-
sideration of the concept of the black church.
He argued first that “blacks have perceived
the church as a reflection of shared experi-
ences and conditions,” as a social space that
served as a refuge from the harsh realities of
life in America. He added to this that “litera-
ture and studies on the black church have ob-
scured and rendered invisible the diversity”
within the black church, rendering it a politi-
cal, ideological and theological construction
that simulates unity.

Evans also argued against the simple
conflation of black religious agency with
agendas of political resistance. “What effect
did the black church have on the oppressive
system of the Jim Crow south?” he won-
dered. “None,” he answered, if our concept
of agency is limited to “the goals of progres-
sive politics.” But Evans maintained that
black churches, as places where black indi-
viduals practiced leadership, “played a major
role in the civil rights movement.”

Evans explained that while he has no
long-term agenda in his arguments about
agency per se, he must focus on the concept
because former models of the black church
“obscured more fruitful ways in which peo-
ple persisted, acted and sustained themselves
under harsh circumstances.”

Evans spoke extensively about the flur-
ry of news surrounding Reverend Jeremiah
Wright during the presidential campaign

SGA discusses

Winter Fest, Haiti relief

Cristina BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, Jan. 21, the Student Gov-
ernment Association’s weekly meeting be-
gan with president Meikaela Zwieryznski
’10 taking the floor to discuss final details of
Winter Fest, which took place last Saturday
night in the Union. Immediately afterward,
Jordan Starck presented the final budget for
the Seniors Ball that will take place later in
the semester. The budget was approved and
the External Affairs Committee will now be
able to complete their plans for the ball.

* After discussing the budget, Zwieryznski
addressed the matter of Haiti Relief. There
are many organizations around campus that
have started organizing themselves in order
to help the relief efforts for Haiti. The SGA
came to the conclusion that since there are
many events already being organized, it
would be more beneficial to support what is
already being organized than to try to orga-
nize something new.

We'd Like YRrt0

im's carcer-long track record of achieving
J successful results for his clients has earned

-him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistent!
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Faller is §
a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional a
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom expetience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A -
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed t the Town Planning Boant.

APPEALS « BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE FLAMING

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

Aes

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Clase to Home

Some of the plans that have been orga-
nized are a fundraiser at the “Blackout Belk”
basketball game Thursday, as well as the
brothers of Phi Delta Theta offering their
cleaning services for a donation to Haiti re-
lief.

Next, Zwieryznski proposed the creation.

of a feedback section in the Davidsonian,
which would be two statements, one begin-
ning with “I feel like a full member of the
Davidson Community because...” and the
other with “I do not feel like a full member
of the Davidson Community because...”.
This feedback section would allow all mem-
bers of the community (students, faculty and
staff) to express their opinions about the Da-
vidson Community. The SGA would be in
charge of choosing which statements would
be published. This would provide the oppor-

tunity for later discussion on the topics that -

come up from this exercise and there would
possibly be an end of the year publication
that includes all of the statements that are
submitted.

wo Tien

eet mmrersonaelajury A

¢ ¥

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
ot criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
. law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an atlomey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native. and his wife, Robbie, curreatly live
in the family homeplace, Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser Sandy served many years asa
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF & AM. and in bas
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelins and Mooresville communities.

P sosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almast 30

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INIURY
REAL ESTATE » WILLS TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 © (704) 892-1699 » www.ncintoshlawfirm.com

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

process in 2008 and 2009. “I watched with
amusement and sorrow,” he explained, as he
listened to “the most banal questions about
the black church and what blacks believe.”

Evans then began to analyze the respons-
es delivered by Wright and President Barack
Obama, emphasizing his respect for their
intentions while questioning the use-value
of their terminology. “Wright absolutely
recognized the symbolic value of invok-
ing the ‘black church,” Evans explained.
But he suggested that “the appropriation of
the ‘black church’ as a heroic force” might
have a more dangerous essentializing func-
tion than its laudatory purpose serves. Evans:
stated that such reductions encourage social
institutions that frame the black church as
“insufficiently Christian and a threat to a par-
ticular kirid of social order.

Evans went so far as to say that he would
support a moratorium on the term “black
church,” insofar as the model it describes
represents a system of “ideological totali-
ties.” Instead, he prescribed, we should “pro-
ductively rethink the entire dichotomy of re-
sistance and accommodation.”

Want to help?

Helping Hands for Haiti

HAVE A PHI CLEAN YOUR ROOM.

February 1-2, signups January 25-29 in the Union

The brothers of Phi Delta Theta are offering to clean your room/apart-
ment/fraternity or eating house to benefit Dr. Daniel Lattanzi with his
“Mission in Haiti” project and medical clinic in LaCroix, Haiti. Prices
vary and you can select the pair of brothers that will clean for you.

nib LaCroix ‘Haiti ‘Ne ewTestament Mis-
sion, where one of the brothers will be spend:

ciation. will host “Davidson
nity Response-to the: Disast

y, where a offering will be ‘collected and
donated to Habitat for Humanity and the Red

Breakfast Series: Crisis in Haiti

Friday, January 29 at 8 a.m. in Duke 112 ( International Studies Lounge)
The first Breakfast Series of the semester will be led by Anne Fields ’10
and address the ongoing crisis in Haiti and how the U.S. should re-
spond. Sponsored by the Dean Rusk SAC. RSVP to lahohe.

Davidson Cares: A Community Response to the Disaster in Haiti
Sunday, January 31 at 1:15 p.m. in the DCPC Congregation House
Raleigh-based organization Stop Hunger Now will be packaging meals
to send to Haiti. The afternoon will include a Davidson alumnus speaker
who has done service work in Haiti and a worship service, from which
the offering will benefit Habitat for Humanity and the Red Cross.

Estimated Property Loss: $230

_« iar

“(au eR |

1/14/10

Larceny

On Friday, January 15, 2010 at approximately 1336 hrs a student reported that someone
unlawfully removed his Intermediate Financial Accounting book from the cubby he left
it in between Thursday, January 14 at around 2130 hrs and Friday, January 15 at around
1000 hrs.This incident reportedly occurred in the basement of the Little Library located
at 202 D Road Davidson, NC 28035. This is the second such occurrence at this location,
one larceny occurred just prior to the students leaving for Christmas break. The victim in
this. case does not have any identifiers inside or on the outside of the book.

1/17/10 Larceny Estimated Property Loss: $350

On Sunday, January 17, 2010 Officer received a call on the officer’s duty cell phone from
a Davidson College student in reference to a missing wallet and iPhone. The student stated
that on Sunday, January 17 between 0200 hrs and 0300 hrs she observed her Coach wallet
to be missing along with her iPhone, which was inside of the wallet, from. 122 Patterson

Ct. Cir., BSC.

1/24/10 Larceny Estimated Property Loss: $2000

On Sunday January 24, 2010 at 0052 hrs the owner of Ultrasound Audio reported the theft
of two wireless vocal microphones. The theft occurred between 0025 hrs and 0035 hrs on
January 24, 2010 when a group of students and visitors rushed the stage after a perfor-
mance. The performance was part of the Winterfest 2010 celebration taking part in the
Knobloch Campus Center. He valued the two Shure Pro Audio, Beta 87A microphones at
$1,000.00 each.

