2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

KELSEY LILLEY
News Editor

In an effort to increase dialogue on a mul-
titude of issues among the Davidson commu-
nity, the Student Government Association
(SGA) has begun the Voices Project.

“Lots of issues, topics and questions are
not frequently discussed at Davidson for
many reasons,” SGA President Meikaela
Zwieryznski said. “Some students have the
feeling that it isn’t okay to bring up concerns
or questions, and we want to ensure that ev-
ery member of our campus community can
have his or her voice heard. Whether it is
praise about what the Davidson community
is doing well, or concern about what we need
to do better, everyone should be able to speak
openly and freely, and to be received with re-
spect.”

A three-part initiative, the Voices Project
begins with the “Your Voice, Your Story” sec-
tion of the Davidsonian (the first edition of
which is to the right of this article) in which
students and faculty can share their opinions
anonymously.

“It is open, it is public, and all submis-
sions will be shared with the community to
promote discussion about what our peers are

he H-Spot:

News
SGA ‘Voices’ project will gather community opinions

experiencing, thinking, and feeling,” Zwie-
ryznski said. “It is anonymous to ensure that
the focus is directed at the issues and topics
raised in the submissions rather than directed
toward the individuals submitting the com-
ments.”

Secondly, the SGA has also implemented
a “Movie Screening, Dinner and Dialogue”
series called Reel Talk. Beginning last
Wednesday with a screening of “Babel,” Reel
Talk will show “Good Hair” next Monday,
Feb. 15, in the 900 Room, as a collaborative
event with the Residence Life Office and the
Black Student Coalition.

“The documentary follows the business
of black hair to evaluate various social, inter-
national and economic issues, and makes you
laugh while really challenging you to think
about complex issues,” Zwieryznski said.

Thirdly, the “Breaking Bread” section of
the Voices Project will consist of two groups
coming together over dinner to discuss an is-
sue that involves both groups, but may not
have previously been discussed, Zwieryznski
said that groups can either make requests to
attend the dinner or be invited.

“Clearly some discussion can get heated,
and it is crucial to ensure that all dialogue
that comes from this project is proactive and

2

with the Health h Advisors

person to get tested at the health ome

DC When you first arrive at the health cen’ ter, they’ ask: you afew questions about any. ‘symp :

foms you may be experiencing in order to assess your risk for STD’s/The actual examination
is pretty ‘simple and lasts only a few minutes, First, you’ll drop your trousers and the health
éare provider will examine “that? region, checking the lymph nodes in the groin and the tes-
ticles for any possible lumps or discomfort, Next,’a thin swab is inserted into the urethra and
rotated, ‘This can be slightly painful, however it only lasts for a short time.After thatya urine

test i is conducted to check for gonorrhea and chlamydia.’ If- ou want to get tested for HIV,
syphilis and hepatitis, a blood sample is also collected. «”
This whole procedure won’t take long and really i is q

painless, Most rmartantiy any

information that you give to a health care provider and all test results. are confidential. So

» XOXO,¢: ‘
The Health. Advisors _—

don’t be nervous about gettin tested — it’s best to know about down below!
: 18

Have. Questions? Email Us: healthadvisors @davidson. edu,

SGA discusses elections, zipcars

CuRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

This week’s Student Government Asso-
ciation meeting began with a review of the
recent elections. The discussion was lead by
current Vice-President Baker Shogry’ 10 and
Faheem Rathore ’12.

Issues such as when and where a candi-
date is allowed to campaign and what con-
stitutes campaigning will have to be revised
and made clear to candidates. In addition to
this, the Appeals Council for violations dur-
ing campaigns will be revised.

Furthermore, the timeline of elections
will be reevaluated in order for the electorate
to be able to become more familiar with the
candidates and to allow possible candidates
more time to familiarize themselves with
campus if they were abroad.

After this, Meikaela’‘Zwieryznski’ 10 took
the floor to evaluate the success of the Voices
Project. The movie screened was “Babel,”
and there was a good amount of student at-
tendance and participation. The next screen-
ing, “Good Hair,” is planned for Monday,
Feb. 15, tying into Black History Month.

Afterward, the possibilities either a sec-
ond ‘Vamanos Van’ to take students to the
movies or Birkdale during the early evening
or a Zip Car system on campus were dis-
cussed.

Zwieryznski said that the administration

is evaluating this and other possibilities that
would make it easier for students without
cars to travel.

——— ~

productive,” she said. “Therefore, all events
will include a trained facilitator to ensure that
we move forward and progress as a commu-
nity from such meaningful dialogue.”

A result of feedback from previous SGA
focus groups, the Voices Project is intended

o “get people talking,” according to Zwie-
ryznski.

“Davidson stresses how important it is to
bring people from different backgrounds to
our community,” she said. “We agree, but we
also think it is important to ensure that peo-
ple from different backgrounds are engaging

Your Voice,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2010

~~

with one another.”

Zwieryznski also noted that despite the
diversity that Davidson has, it is “easy to fall
into a comfort zone and miss out on the ex-
periences of so many members of our com-
munity.”

“Furthermore, we want to give those in-
dividuals who feel that their experiences and
voices have been overlooked or silenced the
opportunity to share those stories, thoughts
and feelings,” she continued. “The name of
the project comes from a desire to empower
all members of our community.”

Your Story

| feel like a full member of the Davidson community

because...

Even though | am a minority here, 1 feel like Davidson has
been accepting of my culture and skin color. Peaple
definitely stay in their own groups. However, | think that
they are open to new cultures, religions, and ideas if {and
only if) they are questioned or provoked to talk about

new things. Student

| do not feel like a full member of the Davidson

community because...

| don't believe in ghosts, gods, angels, demons or
anything else supernatural. The natural world runs by
natural processes, and there is no valid evidence
suggesting otherwise. Christian prayers before college
events are marginalizing to the nonreligious and to those
of other faiths. And the many college awards that honor
a “life of faith and service” demean those who serve the
community without basing that obligation on faith in the
supernatural. Faculty Member

The SGA Voices Project is an initiative to incite and facilitate discussion and
dialogue an topics of gender, sexual orientation, ability, race, ethnicity,”
religion and much more, helping us te hear the silenced voices and
unspoken, unaddressed concerns in owr community. To submit your
comment anonymously, visit the online version of the Davidsonian and look
for the “Your Voice, Your Story" link. If you have questions o¢ concerns email

Want to improve Healthcare?
Believe Management, Informatics, and Analytics can

make a difference?

Be a pioneer in the program that is at the intersection of technology,
management, and healthcare and join the next generation of healthcare leaders
who are transforming medicine.

Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business in partnership with the Duke Center
for Health Informatics announces the new:Master of Management in Clinical

Informatics.

Management i in Clinical Infor atics pr
of its kinduin the United States ~ leveraging Duke’s worid- (ehowined track record in “predicine, busi
health inforrniatics. Through access to the finest faculty and: resources across health care, 1T ae
management education, students will acquire the Rnowledse and skills to merge technolag

aod help improve human health.

Class begins August 2010. First round of : applications < are due March 1, 2009.

Visit:

www.fugqua.duke.edu/mmci

or email: mmci@duke.edu

IMNCi WW Duke Center for Health informatics

Duke Masters of Management

