10 THE DavipsoniAN

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Thursday’s victory over the College of
Charleston Cougars was more than just a vic-
tory over the conference leaders. It was also
the culmination of the season-long grow-
ing process that the entire team has endured
since the departure of star guard Stephen
Curry ’10. As this year’s seniors learned how
to be leaders in Curry’s absence as well as
how to integrate the highly successful fresh-
man class into the rotation, the team has of-
ten seemed half a step off.

The promise of success had always been
present for this year’s squad. They played
national powers Gonzaga and Butler. very
competitively before falling on the road both
times. Two losses on neutral courts (to Penn
State and Comell) were decided in the game’s
final seconds. And the Wildcats thumped
the Citadel on the road 74-63: to avenge an
18-point loss last year and added salt to the
Bulldogs’ wounds by completing the season
sweep last Saturday.

But the season was also marked by strug-
gles against the best teams in the Southern
Conference. The Wildcats suffered double-
digit home losses to Appalachian State (fourth
place) and Western Carolina (tied for second)
while also falling to Wofford (tied for second)
on the road. But the low point of the season
came against the College of Charleston. On
the road, against the conference leaders, the
Wildcats trailed by 20 points with eight min-
utes remaining before losing by 12. It was the

third straight loss to the Cougars, and seemed .

to justify the Cougar’s number one spot in
the preseason coaches’ poll.

After winning three consecutive confer-
ence titles, it appeared as though the Wildcat
machine was slowing down. Four conference
losses (more than in the past two seasons
combined). had the Wildcats uncomfortably
close to the middle of the pack.

But on Thursday night, when 4,600 fans
clad in black entered the arena, the swagger
and closing ability of the previous Wildcat
teams returned.

Not that this was evident at first. After
Will Archambault ’10 began the game with a
triple, Davidson saw Charleston bolt out to a
quick 23-9 lead in an attempt to strangle the
Wildcat attack before it-could get going. But
there was no panic from this Wildcat squad.
A 13-2 mun allowed the Wildcats to creep
back into the game, and a JP Kuhlman °13
basket would eventually tie the game at 36 at
intermission.

A symbol of the Wildcats’ success in this
game was Frank Ben-Eze “12. Charleston
seems to bring out the best in the Nigerian
native. He blocked three shots in seven min-
utes against the Cougars in last year’s con-
ference tournament, and blocked two more
during the 13-2 run to set the tone for the Da-
vidson effort the rest of the way. They would

Getting the Swagger Back

SPORTS

not back down. They would come right at
the Cougars and demonstrate the mettle that
years of championships had built.

The Cougars led for most of the first ten
minutes of the second half. But the Wildcats
never let them get away and the crowd was
never silenced by the Cougar attack. The first
sign that the night might belong to the Wild-
cats came with 10:48 remaining. Archam-
bault was fouled on a three-point attempt. He
made the first two foul shots but missed the
third. Undaunted, he chased down the offen-
sive rebound and laid the ball in for a four-
point possession and a four-point lead.

There were still opportunities for the
Wildcats to fold, however. Andrew Goud-
elock’s vicious one-handed dunk with eight
minutes left pulled Charleston within one
and threatened to alter the momentum of the
game. But again, Davidson refused to wilt. A
jumper by Kuhlman and two foul shots from
Ben-Eze gave the Wildcats a 70-67 edge,
setting the stage for Archambault to put the
game away.

The first play that Archambault made
came with 2:57 remaining. Brendan McKil-

-lop’ 11 hit him with a bounce pass as he was

making a backdoor cut and Archambault el-
evated for a two-handed flush over two Cou-
gar defenders. The play happened in the blink
of an eye, but crushed the Cougar chances.
They failed to score again, and Archambualt
added a dagger 3-pointer with 1:22 remain-
ing to seal the win.

The Cougars looked shell-shocked as
they watched McKillop dribble the final sec-
onds off the clock. The loss was their second
straight in league play, and they looked as
though they had been hit by a mental two-by-
four. The only Cougar to show any emotion
was legendary head coach Bobby Cremins,
who wore a wry smile as he shook hands
with Wildcat coach Bob McKillop.

One group that did show emotion was the
Wildcat fans. They gave their team a stand-
ing ovation as they left the court. The vic-
tory snapped a two-game home losing streak,
and for one night, served as a reminder of the
ovations the team had received after salting
away victories in seasons past.

To be sure, work remains to be done. Da-
vidson still trails Charleston by two games in
the conference standings. The Wildcats cur-
rently only shoot free throws at a 67% clip as
a team, and their 21-26 (80.8%) performance
against the Cougars may well have been the
most important stat of the game. If the Wild-
cats can avoid giving away free points at the
chanty stripe and continue to shoot the ball
accurately from beyond the arc, they could
make for a deadly postseason opponent. A
hot-shooting team with senior leadership and
fresh blood (freshmen Jake Cohen ’13 and
Kuhlman are the team’s two-leading scorers)
would present a formidable challenge to any

‘tournament opponent.

Men’s Basketball Men’s Tennis Women’s Basketball
(11-11, 6-4) (3-1, 0-0) (11-10, 9-4) .
Results: Results: Results:
1/28 vs. C of C W 86-71 1/31 vs. S.C. State W 7-0 1/29 @ Radford
1/30 vs. The Citadel W 67-63 Canceled

Next Up:
2/13 @ #61 Furman

Next Up:
2/6 vs. Ga. Southern

Notes: Chris Mark ’13 and Joe
Schafer ’13 continued their
dominating college debuts

as each picked up singles
ditionally, following this week’s victories on Sunday to remain
undefeated in their young col-
lege careers.

Notes: The Wildcats have won
nine of their last 13 games after
starting the season 2-7. Ad-

victories, the team boasts an
impressive 7-3 record at home.

2/2 @ Wofford W 66-60

Next Up:
2/6 @ UNCG
2/8 vs. Elon

Notes: For the second time this
season, the Wildcats’ scheduled
game with Radford was post-
poned due to inclement weather.
The game will no be made up.

struggle, witnessin seven ‘lead. changes
before the Wildcats managed to take con-
tole, Archambault gave © the Wildcats ‘a 60;

offensive rebound off of his unsucassefad
third attempt into a lay-up. J P Kuhlman 3

_Aeat to the ‘Cougars, ‘a game in; “which the
“Wildcats trailed by 20 in the’ second half

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

é
ee

Lobster Says Thanks!

Hello again student body! As a follow
up to my article last week, I just wanted to
thank everyone who came out to the games
Thursday. and Saturday! The crowds were
amazing; the student section was filled to the
top. And what a great pair of games we got
to see! We told the city of Charleston what
was up. I loved all of it. So thanks again! And
keep it up on Saturday as we take on Georgia
Southern!

- THE LOBSTER

before falling 67455. It was s the second co

Will Archambault ’10 prepares to drive for two of his game-high 24 points in the
’Cats 86-71 win over College of Charleston. Archambault needs just 13 points to
become the 38th Davidson player to eclipse 1,000 ) Points for his career.

EA ag

Swimming and Women’s Tennis Wrestling
Diving (1-0, 0-0) (2-12, 0-3)
Men (1-7, 1-1) Results: Results:

Women(6-6, 6-0)

Results:
1/30 @ Gardner-Webb
Canceled

Next Up:
2/18-2/20 CCSA Championship
@ Knoxville, TN

Notes: The ’Cats final regular
season meet of the year at
Gardner-Webb was cancelled
due‘to incelment weather.

2/1 vs. S.C. State W 4-3

Next Up:
2/6 vs. Wingate
2/6 vs. NC A&T

1/27 @ UNCG L 9-40

Next Up:
2/4 vs. The Citadel
2/9 @ App. State

Notes: The Wildcats rallied from Notes: Alex Radsky ’11, Vitaly
a 2-1 deficit to claim a thrilling Radsky ’11, and Tyler Mullen
4-3 victory over the visiting Bull- *12 all scored decisions in last
" dogs to open the 2010 season.

week’s loss to the Spartans.
