2 THe DavipsontiaAn

Walk, from page I

the same questions are still worth raising.”

As the march commenced, Alpha Phi
Alpha president Seyi Ayorinde 10 unfurled
a banner to lead the route through campus,
inciting his peers with words reminiscent of
Dr. King himself: “He marched on Wash-
ington, so we'll march on Davidson.” The
walk ended at the steps in front of Chambers,
where Ayorinde read King’s famous “] Have
a Dream” speech.

Afterward, Ayorinde encouraged the

News

marchers to participate in other programs
throughout the day, and entreated them to do-
nate money through Alpha Phi Alpha to the
Martin Luther King Jr. Foundation. A table
was set up in the Union to take donations,
just for the day, but Ayorinde hoped to extend
the table’s stay into this week.

“We still have a ways to go,” Jeffries cau-
tioned. “We haven’t arrived yet at utopia, if
you will. I am very, very, very passionate
about that fact, that we can’t just say we’ve
come a long way and everything’s ok. We
still haven’t gotten that one right yet.”

King Day for Kids

From 9:30 AM until 11:30 AM, children
and volunteers participated in “King Day for
Kids,” which combined literacy, social jus-
tice and community involvement. In keep-
ing with Jeffries’ aim to “bring an awareness
to even the little ones as to who Dr. King
was and his importance,” students, faculty,

staff, community members and area youth.

came together to celebrate the values of Dr.
King. During the program, children enjoyed
a “read-in,” where they separated into small
groups to read a story with a group leader
from Davidson. They also designed book
illustrations and wrote stories, which they
shared with the entire group, afterwards re-
ceiving literacy-based goody bags.

The highlight of the program was a
“speed reading” contest with big-name celeb-
rity contestants, including Davidson Mayor
Woods, Police Chief Fountain Walker, SGA
President Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10, and
returning champion Joshua Arthur 12. Vol-
unteers sat scattered among children on the
Union bottom floor, and Walker kicked off
the contest, shouting, “Who’s ready?! I want
to know!” Children and volunteers alike
screamed in fright and joy.

Walker marveled at the young people sit-
ting before him. “Look at this group. This is
meant for all folks. It’s wonderful, all ages
and races together, and exactly what MLK
wanted.”

Seminars on race and social justice

From 1:30 PM until 2:45 PM, three semi-
nars took place in the Union, all with a focus
on “the issue of race and social justice,” ac-
cording to Jeffries.

In Room 312, Dr.
Hilton Kelly, Assistant
Professor of Educa-
tion, directed an open
forum entitled, “Like
Being Untied and
Tickled at the Same
Time: Remembering
Legally Segregated
Schools for Blacks,”
in which he presented
a film, lectured on the
legacy of legally seg-
regated schools for
blacks, and suggested
new ways of thinking about today’s re-seg-
regated schools.

In the 900 Room, Cristina Garcia, Diver-
sity Program Advisor & Area Coordinator,
with students Justin Hua °11, Jesse Johnson
12 and Darrell Scott "10, led a discussion
entitled “Check All that Apply: Examining
the Complexities of Racial Identity as Forced

“You have to realize that
other people are not the only
ones who are imperfect. You
have to be humble, especial-

ly in terms of race.”
-Isaac Bailey ’95

by Societal Labeling.” The talk focused on
the various terms society has chosen to con-
tinuously label individuals based on ethnicity
and race.

In Room 302, Sun
Times reporter Issac J.
Bailey ’95, who authored
a book about his experi-
ences as a black student at
Davidson and whose lat-
est article will appear in
the next issue of the Da-
vidson Reader, presented
his speech “Why I Don’t
Eat Watermelon in Front
of White People Even in
a Post-racial World.”

In his speech, Bailey
proposed a new reality
of race and why we must rethink everything
we thought we knew about the subject. “You
have to realize that other people are not the
only ones who are imperfect,” he said. “You
have to be humble, especially in terms of
race. Without humility, any discussion of
cross-racial issues will be shallow and point-
less.”

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010

a -

At 11:30 AM in the 900 Room, Former
North Carolina Chief Justice Henry Frye
delivered the “Community Convocation.”
A recognized business leader and commu-
nity advocate, Justice
Henry Frye became the
first African-American
to be elected to the
North Carolina House
of Representatives in
the Twentieth Century.
He served in the State
House for 12 years and
was then elected to a
two-year term in the
North Carolina Senate. In 1983, Justice Frye
became the first African-American to serve
on the Supreme Court of North Carolina. He
was appointed by NC Governor Jim Hunt to
serve as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
in 1999. Today, he continues to practice law.

Zwieryznski welcomed all present and
challenged them to act as “agents of the
change Dr. King represents.” The Rever-
end Rob Spach, Davidson College Chaplain,
gave the opening prayer, in which he called
on God to bind us together with cords that
cannot be broken.”

Jefferies led the singing of “Lift Every
Voice and Sing,” followed by President Tom
Ross’ introduction of the illustrious speak-
er. “Henry Frye has made a difference,” he
stated, and gave the floor over to the former
Chief Justice.

Frye began his speech by charming the
audience with a series of clever, lighthearted

“Prepare yourselves, make
a plan, but never give up in
realizing your dream.”
-Former North Carolina
Chief Justice Henry Frye

Convocation with Chief Justice Frye

Lament

photo by Bill Giduz

rhyming poetry couplets: “It’s a beautiful
day,/ I’m glad to be here to have my say.”

He described Dr. King’s life from his
humble beginnings in Atlanta to his days of
leadership in Alabama,
and expounded on the
virtues of King’s phi-
losophy of nonviolent
confrontation. “He was
great because he had a
dream,” Frye said, “A
great man, but not a per-
fect man.”

He urged the audi-
ence members, “Prepare
yourselves, make a plan, but never give up in
realizing your dream. Martin Luther King Jr.
endured to the end. His legacy lives on.”

Frye implored his audience to help chil-
dren everywhere. “It is difficult to keep [our
children] uncorrupted,” he admitted. “Chil-
dren need training, children need advice.
Sometimes, when we make a mistake, I be-
lieve it is appropriate to look them in the eyes
and say, ‘I was wrong. I apologize.’”

After his speech, Kappa Alpha Psi mem-
ber Elliot Campbell 711 presented Frye with
a gift bag from the fraternity, of which Frye
is a member, in appreciation from the Col-
lege and the Community. Rabbi Michael
Shields, Adjunct Jewish Chaplain, gave the
closing prayer.

“T like to talk to people about Dr. King,”
Frye said, “especially people who might not
know much. I suffered a lot of racial dis-
crimination myself.”

Fireside chat with Davidson alumnus and Charlotte mayor Foxx ’93

The day continued at 3:00 PM with a
“Fireside Chat” with Charlotte Mayor An-
thony Foxx °93. In his speech, the newly
elected mayor first flattered the College.
“This campus is hallowed ground for me,”
he said. “It’s where I truly learned to live in
service of others.” While much of his talk
centered on the many civic and social issues
confronting Charlotte in the context of MLK
Day, he confessed that “the changes we now
accept as a given in our society would not
have happened if Dr. King had not stood up
and acted. How do you convince people rel-
atively comfortable with the status quo to do
something different?”

He went on to describe the day as “‘a holi-
day we are called not just to remember, but
to act. Let’s not look at civil rights in a static
way, but instead remember that things still
need to be changed.”

After a brief acclamation of King’s
legacy, the mayor opened the floor up for
questions from the eager audience. In par-
ticular, Foxx answered questions concerning
poverty and homelessness in the Charlotte
area. “We have to develop a framework for
dealing with poverty and homelessness,” he

affirmed. “We have to have a dedicated rev-
enue source and industry support.”

Foxx illustrated the problem in terms of
“locational policy.” He claimed, “No one
wants poverty in their backyard. We need a
place to house the poor, which entails low-
income housing so that no one area gets hit
with the brunt of it.”

Foxx echoed Jeffries’ insistence on child
education by asserting the importance of a
renewed educational system. “Beneath all
the conversation we have about schools, we
need to talk more about individual kids. If
we don’t educate every child, we’ll have job
problems soon,” he warned.

In confirmation of his beliefs, the final
question came from a Bailey Middle School
girl, who asked what she and her classmates
could do in the effort to alleviate poverty
and homelessness. “There are a lot of things
young people can do, like partnering with
other schools to help, including schools that
have poor and homeless children,” he ad-
vised.

For Davidson students, Foxx recom-
mended that students “provide support
through services in Charlotte such as the Ur-

Davidson alumnus and Charlotte mayor Anthony Foxx '93 discussed King’s legacy 7

and Charlotte’s future with students Monday afternoon in the Union.

ban Ministry Center.”

In keeping with his call to “act” rather
than “remember”, Foxx offered practical ad-
vice for the correction of pressing social is-

sues. “In truth, the changes are the work of
simple people, regular people,” he said. “All
of us are woven together in an inescapable
web of human interest.”
