4 Tue DAvIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

‘Loneliness in Red’ kicks off Dean Rusk series

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, the Cunningham Theatre
Center welcomed. the paintings of visiting
Lebanese artist Helen Karam. The exhibition
opening celebrated her series entitled “Lone-
liness in Red,” which features paintings de-
picting women alone. Live Middle Eastern
music from musician Marwan al-Najjar and
catered Middle Eastern food were provided.

The art exhibition is just one event in
a larger series on campus right now called
“Voices of Middle Eastern Women: Women’s
Lives in Arts and Culture.” The series in-
cludes a lecture on Thursday in the C. Shaw
Smith 900 Room by Lisa Pollard, Professor
of History and Co-Coordinator of Middle
East Studies at UNC Wilmington. Her talk
will highlight the disparity between ‘West-
erners’ perceptions and portrayals of Middle
Eastern women and the realities of their ex-
periences.

Both Karam and Pollard will be having
lunch on Thursday in Commons for those
interested in joining them for lively discus-
sion.

Next Thursday, a panel discussion with
Davidson College faculty Rebecca Joubin
(Arabic), Jacqueline Brinton (Religion),
Joyce Dalsheim (UNC Charlotte Profes-
sor of Anthropology) and Kathryn Johnson
(Director of UNC Charlotte Islamic Studies
Interdisciplinary Program) will take place

in Tyler-Tallman Hall. These women will be
drawing on their personal and research ex-
periences to elucidate what it means to be a
woman in the Middle East.

The Theatre Department’s production of
“Nine Parts of Desire” will conclude the se-
ries from Feb. 17 to Feb. 20 at 7:30 p.m., and
Feb. 2! at 2:00 p.m. in the Barber Theatre.
The production, which is directed by Associ-
ate Professor of Theatre Dr. Sharon Green,
will explore the lives of several Iraqi women,
including an artist, a doctor, a young girl and
an exile. Comprised of a series of interwoven
monologues, the play provides a more intri-
cate portrayal of Iraqi women than what is
typically suggested by the media.

The entire series “Voices of Middle East-
ern Women” was initiated by Green, who ini-
tially approached Director of the Dean Rusk
International Studies Program Dr. -Christo-
pher Alexander and Assistant to the Direc-
tor Larissa Hohe with the suggestion that the
Dean Rusk Office consider co-sponsorship
of the series.

“We sat down over coffee at Summit last
summer and brainstormed about what kinds
of events we thought we could do to supple-
ment the play, which was already on the the-
atre schedule,” Hohe explained. “In the fall,
we sat down with Brad Thomas in the Art
Department, Rebecca Joubin in the Arabic
Department, Jonathan Berkey in the History
Department and Jackie Brinton in the Reli-
gion Department to put things into motion.

It’s that time again

Lottery advice from the
Health Advisors

Tue Heatty ADVISORS
Guest Columnists

It may not be Mega Millions or Power-
ball, but Davidson students have a lot riding
on the Davidson Housing Lottery. A single
number has the power to determine where,
with whom and, essentially, how a student
will live for an entire year.

As health advisers, we recognize the
stress that Davidson students face day to day.
However, we see the stress levels across cam-
pus spike right around lottery time. From
students scrambling to finish study abroad
applications to rushing to find an off campus
house to trying to tell their roommates that
they want to live with someone else, so much
goes on (and so much can go wrong) when it
comes to housing.

Associate Dean of Students and one of the
masterminds behind the housing lottery, Pat-
ty Perillo, recognizes the difficulties students
face. “Of course I hope that everyone gets to
live where and with whom they want, but of
course that can’t happen in reality,” she said.
In her experience, she has seen tensions run
highest when students are waiting in line for
housing. “When students are standing in line,
waiting to make a choice, watching their op-
tions decrease, that can really cause emotions
to run high in students. Constantly having to
renegotiate becomes difficult,” she said.

However, waiting in line is not the only
component of the lottery that causes serious
tension. Getting. a 4 person senior apart-
ment when students have 5 in their group,
students telling their roommates at the last
minute that they want to live with someone
else, or not getting a single and finding one-
self roommate-less at the eleventh hour can
all send stress levels skyrocketing. So what
can students do?

We health advisers have put together
a few pieces of advice to help Davidson

XN

students keep their heads (as much as pos-
sible) during this difficult time. The first is
to keep an open mind. If a student sets his
or her heart solely on one housing option,
the disappointment that follows will be dev-
astating. Secondly, communicate often and
communicate openly. It’s difficult to think
about not getting that 5 person apartment,
but if students talk about the possibility and
make a plan amongst their group beforehand,
it can eliminate a lot of tension later. Same
with roommates — if a student doesn’t plan
on living with his or her current roommate
again, the best thing to do is to tell him or her
early. And lastly, students shouldn’t stress
more than they have to! The lottery is tough,
there’s a lot that can go wrong, but stressing
about it won’t make anything easier.

To help students along the path to a
stress-free lottery, Residence Life has made
some changes to ease tensions among stu-
dents. Perillo said that this year, Res Life has
sent out more reminders about lottery events
to get people thinking and making decisions
ahead of time, increased the time between
the 5 person apartment lotteries and 4 per-
son apartment lotteries, and created “social
networking” events for students looking for
roommates.

“The changes we’re making this year are
a result of recommendations made by stu-
dents, so we hope they minimize the tensions
as much as possible,” she said.

With the new Residence Life policies
and a calm, open-minded attitude going in,
the 2010 lottery is sure to go as smoothly as
possible for Davidson students. And even
though housing is important, it’s equally im-
portant to remember that a meaningful col-
lege experience relies on so much more than
a lottery number.

Need more support? Feel free to contact
the Health Advisers, Residence Life, or the
Counseling Center.

We came up with an artist for the exhibition,
a musician for the play and additional con-
tacts for a panel event.”

The outcome of these conversations was a
series of events sponsored by the Dean Rusk
International Studies Program, the Depart-
ment of Theatre, the Van Every/Smith Gal-
leries, the Art Department, Davidson College
Friends of the Arts, the Religion Department
and the Arabic Program.

“We hope that, through the play and the

Ancrease in step with economic develop
ments. In contrast to developed countries
_ where emissions remain ar but may no

at will i increase. Bradually. With a grow=*
2 number ‘of emissions. in developing

and to create > jobs j in the P
e. advoc: ed “conservation and effi
ciency” with energy ‘consumption.

n-terms, of: transportation, which.1s:

a. leading ‘contributor of C02, emissions,
Koonin encouraged universal use of CAFE

el economy). standardsythe downsizing as
vehicle size, full driving cost transpar~

ency, novel and alternative: vehicle. tech-

nologies: implementation, intemal com-, “
bustion engines: improvements, Dattery’

ment to’“¢

appliances: egulatory incentives
nsparency, ‘Federal and, State’ agency

‘Ageney:-Enersy” “esearch. and | ‘funding’ ®

da smarter electric grid system. Koonin |

iy ‘esd Weimer

1/24/10 Larceny

consistently” ‘diversify its “une
c conventional fuels portfolio by increasing ©

use of bio-fuels derived from corn and
algae mplementing renewable fuel stan~ 3”

related events, students and the greater com-
munity will come away with a greater under-
standing of what it means to be a woman in
the Middle East in the 20th and 21st centu-
ries, that there is no one experience and that
they don’t always conform to the stereotypes
that the West has placed on them,” Hohe said.
“All of the programs have been put in place
to supplement ‘Nine Parts of Desire’ and give
people a better historical and cultural context
for what they’ll see depicted in the play.”

ral.gas. Gots will supplant coal. But, .
he. said, Atbecomes. increasingly Mifficult
Ao.“coax “out? gas from depleted reserve
Forty to 50 years from now, warned Koon-
in, domestic natur al | gas supplies will have

crisis. In his State of the: Union address,

“ President Obama called for. new seer

: ee since ce they 2 are not yet. cost-effee-

will. become

tor. Likewise; he noted, the United. State
must fead efforts to reduce CO2€ emissio.

TT HRY

Estimated Property Loss: $300

On Sunday January 24, 2010 between 1200 hrs and 1900 hrs unknown person(s) removed

an Apple IPod Touch 32 Gig MP4 from the sink shelving in the communal restroom show-

ers located on the’second floor of Irwin Dormitory. The IPod was the property of David-
son College student. The victim stated that he last knew the IPod was secured at

1200 hrs on Sunday January 24, 2010. The value of the IPod was estimated at $300.00

1/29/10 Larceny

On Friday January 29, 2010, Officer Thompson was contacted by Davidson student in ref-
erence to a missing TV and Xbox from 112 Patterson Ct. Cir., PDT house. The reporting
person stated that the TV and Xbox were taken between 0130 hrs and 1145 hrs on Friday
01-29-2010. More specifically, the television was at least 50 inches in width. Officers ask
that anyone knowing anything please contact us at 704-894-711 86 ,

