THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats wrestlers
fall at UNCG

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling faced off against
UNC Greensboro in Fleming Gymnasium on
Wednesday night. Despite a great effort by
Davidson, UNC Greensboro posted a 40-9
score for the win.

In the first match of the evening, UNC
-Greensboro got off to an incredible start
with an impressive victory. - Peter Sturgeon
pinned Davidson’s Charlie Wolff 711 at 285
pounds. Following the first match, the Spar-
tans continued to capitalize early when Eric
Chandler registered a major decision against
Ben Altman ’10 to put UNC-Greensboro 10-
0.

Davidson did not give up. The Radsky
brothers rallied back to secure two victories
for Davidson. Alex Radsky ’11 scored a 9-7
decision and Vitaly Radsky.’11 scored a 3-2
decision. Winning in dramatic fashion, Vi-
taly won in the final seconds of his match
overcoming a one-point deficit with a take-
down. After the fierce comeback, the Spar-
tans turned the tables once again and took the
next five of six matches to secure the victory.
Davidson was forced to forfeit the 174 and
184 pound bouts.

To finish things off, UNC-Greensboro’s
Ryan Sughrue scored a pin for Greensboro at
197 pounds. Davidson’s record declined to
2-12 overall and 0-3 in the SoCon. David-
son faces off against The Citadel at home on

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy
Endowment will be available to support worthy
initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior
students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who
expents to complete all research work prior to
graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the

following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or
social sciences, either in the US or abraod.

2) Cross-cultural sstudy opportunities for students
during the academic year or the summer.

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to
projects that fall within the humanities and social

sciences.]

Application forms are available at
http://inside.davidson.edu/committees/faculty/Fac
ulty%20Forms/Forms/Alltems.aspx or in the Office
of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers
1283). Completed application forms are due back in
this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday,
February 25, 2010. The announcement of awards
should occur prior to the exam period of the spring

semester.

Wildcat Pulse

Abernethy Endowment

SPORTS

sho made the score 44-38 with 12 minutes
play in regulation..Cohen’s lay-up with

“remaining gave Davidson a 51-49 lead.Th
Wildcats’ would: not trail again until Bryz

before" McKillop added another: triple:
narrow the gap to one with three minutes

”) game after McKillop tied the game at 57.
Wells missed jumpshot with 22 seconds left.
The Wildcats elected not to use a timeout and
‘Rossiter eventually: missed a wild fadeaway
gumper:in the closing seconds, The rebound
as eventually knocked out of bounds with
A. seconds remaining.“The Bulldogs” Joe
. Wolfinger caught.a baseball pass and fired.a
contested 12-footer that clanged off the rim
as the buzzer sounded, iE, ‘the, extra

Harrison DuPont missed-a shot with 20
econds remaining that would have. tied the
game. Rossiter grabbed the: rebound and
Was : fouled, but. missed. the front end of:
_one-and-one to give the Bulldogs another.
‘chance. Davidson played solid defense-
-on the ensuing possession, however, and.
forced Zach Urbanus to. fire up an airball.

from beyond the three-point line. with three:
seconds left. Cohen then ‘knocked dow,
foul shots to clinch the victory
The game:followed a similar seript to
he, Charleston game in that the Wildcats:
‘ound themselves with an early double-fig
ure deficit..A slow start resulted in Davidson
ailing 24712 with eight minutes remaining.

assists to lead the Wildcat attack, Cohen was
Ahe-team’s leading séorer with 1¢ points and
‘eight rebounds, Rossiter produced 10 points
and seven, boards, while Archambault had

stretch, and McKil-”
cond femaining “in

. edge over The Citadel and Burman, Davidson
Gk 11, 6-4) wall return to action on February

and a friendly atmosphere.

public service.

Contact Stetson Law today:
(877) LAW-STET
lawadmit@law.stetson.edu
www.law.stetson.edu
facebook.com/StetsonLaw

eee 4

available to answer questions and to meet with you to
talk about career goals (or life in general). My fellow
classmates are not competitors, but friends. People
work hard, but they respect and support each other.”

WEDNESDAY,

Earn your law degree in a balanced
environment with the nation’s #l-ranked
advocacy program, outstanding professors

Through its full-time and part-time
programs, Stetson prepares lawyers through
practical experience, leadership training and

“The academics are rigorous, but professors are always

‘€ — Sarah Hanafin, 2L

Fesruary 3, 2010

Men’s Basketball vs. Ga. Southern
Saturday 7 p.m.
Belk Arena

Saturday’s game is a special
“Paint it Red” event. Fans are
encouraged to buy limited edi-
tion Nike shirts at the student
bookstore or ‘Cats on Main spirit
store. Proceeds benefit the Kicks
from ‘Cats Education Fund.

Outside the Den

NFL
New Orleans vs. Indianapolis
Super Bowl XLIV
Sunday 6:18 p.m.

Two teams who flirted with an
undefeated regular season will
meet in America’s biggest sport-
ing event on Sunday. The Saints
are making their first ever Super
Bowl appearance while the Colts
hope to celebrate their second
Super Bowl title in the last four
years.

il

