THE DAVIDSONIAN

as =

Alvarez, from page. 1

students, while also allowing them to gradu-
ate without debt.

To show their support for the Davidson
Trust, the Student Government Association’s
External Affairs Committee has put together
a fundraiser, scheduled for Saturday, Feb. 13
from 6 p.m. to 9’ p.m. Located in- Vail Com-
mons and served by PS, the student cooking
organization. Guests will be treated to din-
ner, dancing and performances by student
a capella groups and the Davidson Jazz
Band. In addition, Ross, Davidson Mayor
John Woods, and Davidson College Presi-
dent Emeritus John Kuykendall ‘59, will all
be speaking to the guests, as will Davidson
Trust beneficiaries.

Tickets for the benefit dinner are $50 for
a pair or $30 each, and are available at the
Ticket Office in the Union or online at www.
davidson.edu/tickets. All proceeds go direct-
ly to the Davidson Trust.

Left, President Tom Ross ’73 and donor
and trustee Carlos Alvarez‘say “cheers”
Friday after Ross announced Alvarez’s
$10 million gift to establish the Alva-
rez Scholars Program for international
students.

nfecting you are’slim to none:
That said, genital herpes, or HS V2.
is a different story. Although it’s trans
‘mitted the same way, it is a life-altering
disease without a cure, Genital herpes can
-be spread through all sexual contact, in
_cluding oral sex:-Jeaving you with a nasty
ase of HSV2/in your nether regions, If.

to ask your most. burning questions about
relationships, Sex, drugs, alcohol, mental.
health, and anything else you might en
counter while. at Davidson! Every week,
we’ll address one or two topics submit-
ted anonymously to our e-mail address,
healthadvisors@davidson.edu...« « .”

that I might have contracted herpess is ago “Although genital herpes does exist on
hear it’s rampant on campus — ~ what do Davidson’ $s campus, our rates are consis-
Meg ; . ” «tent with other college campuses. If you’re
2 ; “== worried you may have contracted either °
if’ you’ re worried about oral herpes ©. *. strain, please visit the Health Center dur-
(HSVA1)¥ don’t’be, because you prob- ing your next ‘outbreak. Medications are
ably-already: have ite majority ‘of the available that will help reduce discomfort
population contracts it during childhood, .. and the risk of transinission! :
and other than the oceasional cold sore,’
there’s not much to worry about. To fur-
ther ease your worries; herpes can only « B48.
transmitted’ through skin- to-skin OF wo & Lk Bee
ual contact. The, chances ‘of herpes. . A Ox 0,. . :
The Health Advisor. -

im’s careet-long track record of achieving

successful resulis for his clients has camed

Hin recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In Amenca publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently aamed a3 one of
the Top Seper Lawyers in the stale of Noth Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Jedge, Jim Fuller i

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience
he bas dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured hy the negligent ae cristal
conduct of others.

Fim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jira also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Towa Planning Board,

rosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else, Sundy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and aoquisition
98 well 3s zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia,
Jn addibion lo his many responsibilities a3 an atlermey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson ative, and his wife, Robbie, camreatly live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser, Sandy served many years a8 a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
| Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
= Williams Masonic Lodge 4176, AP. & A.M. and in bas
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelies and Mooresville commanities..

THE
Pe) Mttogy
LAW FIRM LITIGATION » PERSONAL TSJCRY

: Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home REALESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 © (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

APPEALS * BANKRUPTCY © BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS (ESTATE PLANNING

JoHN Evans
Staff Writer

Monday night at 7:30 in the 900 Room,
Dr. Steven Koonin delivered a lecture en-
titled “Addressing America’s Energy Chal-
lenges: Science, Politics, and the Global
Search for Alternative Energy” as part of
the Henry Louis Smith Lecture Series. This
year, the Smith Lecture Series forms part of
the ongoing Bank of America Lecture Series,
sponsored by the Dean Rusk International
Studies Program and Bank of America.

Koonin, as Under Secretary of Science
for the U.S. Department of Energy, super-
vises all of the Department’s research and
serves as the primary scientific advisor to the
Secretary of Energy. His position places him
at the center of the effort to identify alterna-
tive energy sources.

A theoretical physicist by training, Koon-
in has served as Chief Scientist for British
Petroleum—where he helped the company
move beyond petroleum—and as provost at
the California Institute of Technology. Ac-
cording to President Tom Ross, Koonin pro-
vided a “perfect fit” for the Lecture Series,
since his expertise offered students “rich in-
terdisciplinary opportunities” in the debate
on global energy concerns.

Koonin stressed the importance that the
voice of science must lead the debate about
global warming. He used graphs and visuals
to organize scientific data in a presentable
fashion, and chose language accessible to all
present in the auditorium,

In his outline of basic energy strate-
gies, Koonin first emphasized the necessity
of “energy security.” Since transportation
expends much of the world’s liquid hydro-
carbons reserves—in layman’s terms, pe-
troleam— Koonin advocated a “reliable and.
economic” supply of liquid hydrocarbons.
Petroleum largely contributes to greenhouse
gas (CO2) emissions that are released into
the atmosphere due to the burning of fossil
fuels from transportation, electric power and
heating. Transportation itself is fueled almost
exclusively by crude-derived liquid hydro-
carbons.

Koonin cited the global emissions rate as
two to three precent per year. Emissions lev-
els indicate how fast carbons enter the atmo-
sphere. These levels do not specify the total
amount of carbon in the atmosphere, but the
atmospheric concentration of carbon.

Human-generated, CO2 emissions create
what Koonin called “perturbations in the nat-

alternative energy sources

WEDpNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010 3

ural flow of carbon.” Carbon emissions cycle
constantly between the atmosphere and the
earth in a natural process, but human activi-
ties disturb this process by slowly inflating
the cycle’s carbon concentration.

Each year, humans release 15 billion
tons of carbon into the atmosphere. Koonin
predicted a scenario in which the high con-
centration of carbon in the atmosphere could
drastically affect the earth’s environment. At
the current rate, by the year 2050 humans
will have released enough CO2 to create a
atmospheric carbon concentration of roughly
780 parts per million (ppm).

Koonin argued that the atmosphere can-
not afford a carbon concentration higher than
550 ppm. To alter this potential scenario,
Koonin called for “drastic” changes to sta-
bilize the atmospheric carbon concentra-
tion rather than the “modest” changes now
in place, which will not prevent the current
2050 mark of 780 ppm.

On average, Koonin stated, each person
releases four tons of CO2 per year into the
atmosphere. In keeping with a 550 ppm car-
bon concentration, we must reduce this av-
erage to around one ton. Since demographic
experts estimate that the population world-
wide will increase to nine billion by 2050,
the need to reduce emissions becomes all the
more immediate.

Beyond the environmental implications
of CO2 emissions, high energy consumption
causes economic constraints. In the United
States, which consumes 20 percent of global
energy supplies, nearly 50 percent of all en-
ergy consumption derives from coal; 20 per-
cent comes from nuclear fission, 20 percent
from natural gas and three percent from re-
newable energy sources. Buildings alone use
up 40 percent of total U.S. energy consump-
tion, with 22 percent from residential spaces
and 18 percent from, commercial usage. —

The U.S. imports roughly 60 percent of
its liquid hydrocarbon supply. This high im-
port level leaves the United States’ economy
vulnerable to economic and political threats
from abroad.

The Organization of Petroleum Export-
ing Countries (OPEC) is composed of 13 oil-
producing nations, with most located in the
Middle East. This organization consumes 40
percent of the world’s energy supplies. These
easily exploited crude resources are concen-
trated geographically and politically. Since
the near monopoly of oil business in these

See Energy, page 4
