11

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse ,

Wildcats, from page 12

The Wildcats found themselves unable
to sustain their momentum when they trav-
elled to Spartanburg on Saturday. Despite 15
points each from Cohen and Kuhlman, Da-
vidson could not hold onto the basketball in
the final minute and dropped a heartbreaker
to the Terriers.

Kuhlman converted an old-fashioned
three-point play with 1:36 remaining to tie
the game at 60. Wofford answered with a foul
shot by Jamar Diggs and a transition lay-up
by Noah Dahlman after a Wildcat turnover.
Nik Cochran *13 converted a lay-up with 36
seconds to play which closed the gap to 63-
62. Wofford sealed the game, however, when
Cameron Rundles converted two foul shots
and Brad Loesing added a transition lay-up
in the final seconds. ;

The Wildcats again struggled from the
floor, converting only 43.1% (22-51) of
their field goal attempts. The difference in
the game came at the foul line. Although
both teams shot exactly the same percentage
(63.6%) from the charity stripe, the Terriers
attempted twice as many foul shots as the
Wildcats (28-44 vs. 14-22).

The Wildcats also failed to help their
cause by committing 20 turnovers. They also
received credit for only three assists on their
22 field goals.

Dahlman led the Terriers with 17 points.
Rundles added 13, and Tim Johnson tallied a
game-high 16 rebounds.

Davidson appeared to be in control of the
game early in the second half, expanding a
31-28 halftime advantage into a 39-30 edge
after a technical foul was assessed to the Ter-

rier bench. Wofford refused to fold, however,
reeling off a 14-0 run to establish a 44-39
_—— 7

Brendan McKillop ’11 looks on as Ben Allison ’12 attempts a free throw in a recent
home game. Allison added four points and four rebounds off the bench at Furman.

advantage. The lead swapped hands several
times before a three-point play by Rundles
with 7:47 left gave Wofford a lead it would
not relinquish.

The results of the brief road trip moved
Davidson’s record to 8-10 overall and 3-3 in

ee ie

Cork. it actually does grow on trees. To keep a natural balance
between manuiacturing practices and the environment, Birkenstock
supports using renewable resources like cork.

Balance and support? Just like a pair of our clogs.

Now in stock at
WHIT MILLER’S
Shoe Store & Repair

122 North Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115

704-664-4109
fax: 704-660-0461

Receive $20 off purchase price with this ad
Expires 2/1/10

the Southern Conference. The loss to Wof-
ford dropped Davidson out of a tie for second
place in the South Division. The Wildcats
will return to action on Wednesday night at
7 p.m. when they host the Western Carolina
Catamounts.

Men’s Tennis vs.Richmond
Saturday 3 p.m.
Knobloch Indoor Tennis Center

Coming off a strong show-
ing against nationally-ranked
Clemson, the Wildcats open
their home slate with a pair of
matches on Saturday. The team
hosts Presbyterian at 9 a.m. fol-
lowed by an afternoon match-
up with Richmond at 3 p.m.

Outside the Den

N.Y. Jets @ Indianapolis Colts
AFC Championship Game
Sunday 3 p.m.

The cinderella Jets, led by a stin-
gy defense and strong running
game, hope to continue their
fairy tale story when the take on
Peyton Manning and the #1 seed
Colts on Sunday afternoon. The
Jets defeated the Colts 29-15 in
Week 16, but the Colts’ starters
did not play in the and half.

Men’s tennis shows promise, falls to
#66 Clemson in season opener

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

This weekend the men’s tennis team
started off their Spring 2010 season with a
challenging match against the nationally
ranked Clemson Tigers. They finished their
2009 season with a 7-17 team record and a
ninth place SoCon finish. The 2010 season
looks promising with five starters returning
and three new recruits.

In Saturday’s match at the Hoke Sloan
Tennis Center, the Wildcats did not let up
as they battled No. 66 Clemson. Davidson
eventually. fell to a 5-2 loss, but put up a
good fight. Calum Gee ’12 and Walker Ly-
ons ’11 played an impressive doubles match,
winning 8-7 at the No. 2 doubles spot for

io berecs bz ved memlelchoreg
suceetd nets fo bane em eacorad
Pn ecg et em ded M0 cad wang Ux

E pews da lie legal Sra pide He be bece acd’
| ode Deo Levees 2 Arete phe em omcaindy
| ee ee 3B pened sac marly seeds one of
| Oe Se Seer Leepree te mae of Nets Corb.
Svat Mo Cancel dggets edge, bs Pala
| a widely spaced ihe. ever beewe. brads bet
| Sok: fr be mows 0 poe aed i epee

| Rms dh, Ok Bees Pomme, Sadi is bieada Valads adi ei oenads,

| belandrbcoal bir rgd wate e kp eg ek: Sand, Dodo mive, wd Se tke, Iohtie, cererdy lie

| wher tae: bora a ace by Oe engl peed or evil Waite (ucly eee Sad wed ete ore re gee:

: cans of oie. tide, Aes ad Power Sanh evel eaay earn 0

Teed ths wk bee oe 2 rete Core el sommeionen wits te Trea Davies bun served os

aad Ge Tndce Lied Maled Oaech A rapes Torn el Vanden conmevaces, tat 3 mexaker

| onoer cl the Limi Cb Tinian writs cn he Ten ibae Cedege PrabycA at Chet, wa seo beat

y beat alone Aca bodeas Conte, Deedee Lows - ila Moons Ladi, ADS ADL aed a haw

Camarenes, allie Device Com ea dy Payer ed Yat tact’ yuck Lx teed® breed ao! baci ia the

| was mmcenth; ggeemed & tee Tewe Peazaizg Beoel. gucintos, Deir. Carats sak Voor cmrantion
SPRLALE « BANU » EAL Bea LUTION © PERL TRY

SRELECT RIGS » ERIE PLA REALESTALL » WLLS8 THIETS

Exapteed deep. ant bier
Gs Delany Sianei, Zeiss WS the the Hincade Davidson Corres Mill) Derddsan, NC OREN » (700) BSC 1095 * rewire teaoetion com

the Wildcats, but Clemson took the doubles
point with wins at both the No. 1 and No. 3
positions.

The three recruited freshmen played
excellent opening collegiate matches. Joe
Schafer ’?13 and Chris Mark ’13 scored the
two team points in the No. 3 and No. 4 sin-
gles matches, respectively. Schafer defeated
Gera Boryachinskly in a two set match, 6-4,
6-3. Mark scored again for the Wildcats with
a 6-3, 6-3 win over Robert Pietrucha. Kevin
Moore ’13 also played an impressive first
match at the No. 6 position, but lost to Juan
Bolona of Clemson, 6-4, 6-4.

Next weekend, the Wildcats play at home
in back to back matches against Presbyterian
at 9 a.m. and Richmond at 3 p.m. on Jan. 23
at the Knobloch Tennis Center.

eect D. “hed” Carenps, he cere re Be
wr mpmotee don vote sfewl
shewwid aie be 8 mle pees me pigace:
cai adlad, dway wea ty deel boing
deren ull che Sandy a el pectic 2 he mond te
fun lech at comaract paequnne ad cere, ceed
wh omc toes, al drciapen ad weit
ws vel wooeay ‘uacy sloemel a grates bebo ed
ie und fekerd coats Mork Corba wd Vege.
bekibeas th: reel enewx dine eEy,

