influence of Dry Martin Luther King. The question asked Foxx
his: thoughts on. districting within Charlotte-Mecklenburg
‘ Schools (CMS) and how the recent formation of numerous
#community schools”. 7 has fesegregated. the ‘school, “system
along racial and socio economie lines. The issue of CMS’s
districting policies has long been debated in Charlotte: Itis
@ subject to which, just last semester; Charlotte-based civil
rights attorney, Dr. Julius Chambers, devoted an entire lecture
when he spoke at Davidson. Chambers said that much of the
work he. accomplished toward creating more racially..and
economically balanced schools over the course of his career:
is now in the process of being undone... eee
 Foxx’s response- was refreshingly honest and idealistic.
He stated that the problem seen in CMS is. reflective of
the problem . that. exists «in. Charlotte’s communities. If
school districts are-tacially. and economically. segregated,
so ‘are’ Charlotte’s: neighborhoods, Fox:
government initiated rezoning is one answer to the problem.
He stated that, most importantly, however, Charlotte citizens
must take-the initiative: to Teshape: their own communities.
Diversity’ within any community” strengthens » -and enriches
its members. Foxx’ pointed. to the recession as “proof that
members of a community ate interconnected. He said that in
times of economie Prosperity, “people are lulled into thinking
that they can buy separation from others. In. terms ‘of both
physical distance and socio-economics, the spaces: between
people: are negligible. Within a community, the actions of

interconnectedness, of our world community, nation that
lies just 680 miles southeast of Miami (almost equal. to the
distance between Charlotte and New York) could not be more
politically and economically different than the United States.
‘Yet amid the devastation caused by the recent earthquakés, 2

large international response, chiefly led by the U.S, and U.Ns,
ensued. Although humanitarian relief i is now trickling’ into
Haiti, we must continue our efforts to help: The Davidsonian
staff encourages vail ‘members, of the Davidson College
community to reach out to those in Haiti in any waypossible,
‘In a world comprised of interconnected communities, let us
take action to-help those:in need while heeding the vords
of Dr. ‘King:-The: good neighbor looks. beyond the external
accidents and discerns : those i inn
men human andy therefore, b

SDE aabimereacneacnn Marian

The Bavidsonian

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis
Managing Editor
Brian Park
News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
_»» Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
aes ‘Arts & Living Edito
Lay # Jennifer Gambrell
‘ Yow! Editor
(4 Alex Greening .
: Sports Editors |
~Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
*  _ Head Copy Editors:
Christy Carry & Natasha Rivera
‘Business & Circulation Managers’
Liz Shevock & Lauren Wright”
Assistant Copy Editors y
Seott Matthews & Elizabeth Watts
“ Photography Start
Tripp Bartholomew, Carey Leigh Evans & Bill Giduz

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College.

Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or
$30 per semester. Email Liz Shevock at elshevock @davidson.edu for
advertising inquiries.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Ros O’ DONNELL
Guest Columnist

Just before noon, Friday, Dec. 18th, 2009— “Peyton
Manning flow, I just go no huddle.” As Lil’ Wayne blared
from my Volvo’s speakers, my thoughts drifted from Wayne’s
unmatched lyrical talents to the sobering reality that I had
only one semester left here at Davidson College. This would
be last time I’d be making the 400 mile, six hour trek back to
Washington D.C. as a current student at this institution. But of
all the trips I’ve made back and forth from DC to Davidson,
this trip proved to be the most memorable.

Driving in tandem with a friend just hours after a light
snow began falling in Davidson, it was clear from the outset
that the driving conditions would only worsen throughout the
day. We hoped to beat home the snowstorm that was bracing
to drop several feet of snow up and down the east coast. But
we didn’t make it more than an hour before our first major
setback: just outside Winston-Salem my friend hit a patch
of black ice and skid across two lanes of highway before
crashing into a cement overpass. Watching this happen out
of my rearview mirror with adrenaline pumping through my
veins, I immediately pulled over my car to check on my friend.
She was unhurt but shaken. Her car stood miraculously intact
with only a superficial damage to the front and back bumpers.
After a half hour of checking the damage and determining
the best course of action, we decided to make a quick stop
in Winston-Salem before pressing on towards Washington in
hopes of making it before the roads proved impassable.

The road conditions deteriorated over the coming hours.
Our pace dropped to under 40 miles an hour by the time we
entered Virginia. And as the inches of snow and the number
of disabled vehicles continued to accumulate on the road,
our prospects of reaching the nation’s capitol looked bleak.
Several times we discussed stopping before finally settling
on Charlottesville, VA as the best place to call it quits.
However 30 miles from Charlottesville, we stood for hours at
a standstill as the snow piled up around us. Around 11 p.m.,
the police informed us the road had been shut down due to
jack-knifed tractor-trailers and that we should seek shelter
south of Charlottesville.

With over a foot of snow on the ground, my friend and
I decided to consolidate into a single car, leaving my Volvo
stranded on the side of the road. Braving the worsening
road conditions, we booked a hotel 30 miles south of our
location and arrived in Lynchburg, VA well after midnight.
The next morning we made the decision not to test the roads
and prudently decided to spend another night in the town

THE DavipSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
January 20, 2010

Education outside the classroom

Jerry Falwell made famous. It wasn’t until Sunday, the 20th,
that we were able to make it safely back to DC, albeit after
another six-hour ordeal.

As I pulled out of Davidson College that Friday, I
considered my “education” for the semester to be over. In
many ways, it had just begun. At every twist and turn of the
way home, my friend and I were met with decisions that had
significant ramifications on our lives. Questions like: are the
driving conditions still safe? Should we take refuge in the
nearest motel? How do I know if my friend is comfortable
driving several hundred miles just after an accident?, all
arose after we had left campus. There was no study guide for
these decisions, no blueprint on how to confront each unique
situation. The closest thing we had to expertise were nervous
parents hundreds of miles away, who had only an abstract
understanding of the conditions we faced. Having given no
thought to the trip home or the weather conditions that day,
we were forced to make decisions on our own and on the fly:
“Peyton Manning flow, I just go no huddle.”

While our trip home can be used as an example that
dramatically highlights the ramifications of one’s actions and
decisions when there is no prescribed solution, we encounter
these types of decisions in our everyday lives on campus.
From choosing the company we keep to the music we listen
to, there is no formula to which one student ascribes. We forge
our own lives outside the classroom with much less hierarchy
and conformity than we do inside of it. And there is no single
key to success, no single bar by which we are judged. But too
often, we speak of our “education” through the prism of what
we do in the classroom. In reality, our “education” is much
less defined: shaped as much in the classroom as in the dorm
room or on the athletic field.

Our “education” gives us a framework to make decisions
and a foundation on which we view the world. It’s why
I’ve been shaped by core values of hard work and humility
taught on the soccer field, the creative prose of Lil’ Wayne
and heartfelt poetry of Tupac, and soaring rhetoric from
Demosthenes to MLK. My “education” has taken place at
what many would consider the most unlikely of places on
this campus because it is an “education” unfettered from the
belief that one’s education starts and finishes with the ringing
of the bell atop Chambers. So as the senior class prepares to
write the last chapter in our Davidson careers, I hope we come
to view our “education” as our “experience”: an “experience”
that is shared, dynamic and one that knows “No Ceilings”.

Rob O’Donnell ’10 is a Classics major from Chevy Chase,
MD. Contact him at roodonnell@davidson.edu.

“Let’s roll” mentality now necessary

On September 11, after Mohammed
Atta and his crew were already 3 for
|3, the passengers on board Flight 93
denied Islamo-fascism a perfect day.
Using their cell phones or the seat-back
hones they found out about the attacks
n New York City and Washington
.C. and took things into their own
ands. Todd Beamer tried to use one
f the seat back phones and wound
p connected to the phone company’s
customer service department. He, like
others, relayed the situation and said
some of the passengers were planning
to jump the hijackers. Just before his voice became inaudible
the customer service representative heard him utter the most
famous words of the day: ‘Are you guys ready? Let’s roll.”

Last Christmas Day, when Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab
tried to detonate an explosive concealed in his underwear
and our security agencies had pulled a Keyser Séze, Jasper
Schuringa heeded the words of Todd Beamer. After Mutallab
only managed to set his lower extremities aflame, Mr.
Schuringa, who apparently does a better job than multi-billion
dollar government agencies, leapt across four passengers and
dove on top of Mutallab. Mr. Schuringa ripped the explosive
remnants from the terrorist’s crotch and tried to put out the
fire with his hands. As more passengers and crew tried to put
out the flames, Mr. Schuringa placed Mutallab in a headlock
and dragged him to first class. There, the Dutchman stripped,
searched and detained the Islamo-fascist until Federal agents
took him into custody upon landing in Detroit.

“Let’s roll.” The citizens of the United States need to
embody the sentiment contained in those two words. We need
to be more like the Beamer’s and Schuringa’s of the world.
We need to focus on taking personal responsibility not only
for onr actions. but also for the results we seek. This is the

Bossy DesPain

attitude that led the United States west, that built a cross-
country railroad, engines, light bulbs, computers and so on.
Quite simply, it is fatal to allow our personal responsibility
and self-reliance to atrophy. We should want both the credit
and the blame to fall squarely on us. We should not concede
our lives to the government, nor should we rely on it. We must
be prepared. Few examples better illuminate the perils of such
reliance than the events surrounding Hurricane Katrina.

Let us make a little comparison between the capitalistic
private companies and the government. Days before the
hurricane hit, Wal-Mart had ordered 40,000 seven-gallon
water jugs and had truckers on standby ready to rush supplies
in. The government lacked even an evacuation plan. The
government could not get food, water, or security to the
Superdome claiming it was inaccessible. Hyatt restocked its
hotel less than a half a mile from the Superdome with supplies
from its Atlanta and Houston hotels. The Red Cross provided
shelter and food for thousands, while the government held
firefighters in Atlanta to ensure they received training on
sexual harassment. Private individuals used their own
firearms to protect their property from the ubiquitous looting.
The government left the criminals alone and instead forcibly
took the firearms from the property defenders. Who suffered
the worst from Hurricane Katrina? Who is suffering the worst
currently in Haiti? The poor. Those whom the government
has bribed into trading their self-reliance and personal
responsibility for complete dependency on the government.
And where did the government leave them? Stranded.

Now, we do have to rely on the government for certain
things like counter-terrorism and national security. That same
“let’s roll” sentiment, however, must be present in the halls of
the Pentagon. “Let’s roll” can take the United States further
both in the private sector and the government sector.

Bobby DesPain 11 is a biology major from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
