THE DAVIDSONIAN

=

New Science an

CaroLiINE Woop
News Editor.

Davidson’s new Math and Science Cen-
ter opened on Sunday, January 24. Dr. Mark
Barsoum, director of the center, explained
that the crowded center hosted 20 students on
its opening night, with 18 chemistry students
and two math students.

Barsoum hopes that the center will always

. be equipped with student tutors in every sub-
ject— biology, chemistry, physics and math.
“We’re trying to cover all into classes at all
times,” he said. The 23 student tutors include
both majors and minors in their fields, and all
have tutored previously.

The most important difference in the ser-
vices the Math and Science Center provides
and the previous tutoring system is cost. The
Math and Science Center promises “free
tutoring for math and science courses, by
qualified, trained, experienced peers,” while
students in past semesters have had to pay
for sessions or qualify for special categories
of financial aid.

The service is funded by a number of
sources, including the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute Undergraduate Science
Education Grant and funds from the Dean of
Students’ office and the Office of Academic
Affairs.

“Tt’s enriching and fun and reminiscent of
all the pain I went through,” said Joel Fine-
man ’10, a chemistry minor who tutors regu-
larly. “It’s nice to have someone to turn to.”

Although students can still make ap-
pointments to meet with tutors one-on-one
at a specific time, the new setup also allows
students to walk in without planning in ad-

News
d Math Center funde

vance. Students can meet and get to know the
tutors without signing up for sessions, a dis-
tinct advantage of the new program. “People
can just come in and ask us questions instead
of making an appointment,” Matt Surdel’’10
explained, adding that previously, students
eligible for tutoring had to choose a random
name from a list in order to select a tutor.

Walk-in hours at the Math and Science
Cente are Monday-Thursday, 9:00 p.m. —
12:00 a.m.

The center also provides a meeting space

for study groups or students hoping to work - .

with other members of their classes. The tu-
toring staff, which is responsible for keeping
an eye on class syllabi for introductory sci-
ence classes, will also hold review sessions
before major reviews and exams.

Another advantage of the Math and Sci-
ence center is the training it provides to tu-
tors. Barsoum explained that in the former
system, chemistry tutors received some brief
training, but now he will personally train tu-
tors in each subject. The training process will
begin next week.

The Math and Science Center certainly
boasts an impréssive range of student em-
ployees. Surdel, a Neuroscience major at the
Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, is cur-
rently choosing between a number of M.D./
Ph.D programs, and Fineman explained that
he is considering accepting a fellowship
teaching chemistry in the fall.

The idea for the center was conceived
as a part of a larger grant, the $1.5 million
HHMI Undergraduate Science Education
Grant. Davidson was selected as one of 48
out of 192 applying institutions to receive
funding from the institute, its fourth grant in

Knauss exhibits drawings

“Endgames” second in series of senior shows

AROLINE Woop :
News Editor

On Monday, the Studio Art. department
sponsored another opening celebration for a
student show, this time for the work of Andy
Knauss '10. The show, entitled “Endgames,”
will continue in the Edward M. Smith Gal-
lery through January 27. Knauss’s show, the
second this semester, follows the exhibit “A
Subtle Sanity,” by Grant Clark ’10.

Knauss is currently displaying 12
9”’x 13” pen and ink drawings, as well as four
10”x14” pen, ink and colored pencil draw-
ings accompanied by four corresponding
4’x6’ acrylic paintings.

The series of 12 drawings, which were
created in 2007, represent the seven deadly
sins as well as five of what Knauss calls “aux-
iliary sins.” The set of seven hauntingly gro-
tesque drawings includes “Pride,” “Sloth,”
“Gluttony,” and “Lust.” The five auxiliary
sins Knauss depicts serve as the titles of the
other five works, which include “Madness,”
“Blame,” “Assumption” and “Pride/Preju-
dice.”

One of the most striking of the set is “As-
sumption,” in which Knauss parodies Renee
Magritte’s famous painting “The Treachery
of Images.” In his drawing, Knauss has re-
placed Magritte’s pipe with a detailed draw-
ing of a handgun, while the caption reads
“Ceci n’est pas un revolver” [This is not a
revolver”).

The four drawing/painting sets depict the
four horsemen of the apocalypse mentioned
in the biblical book of Revelation. The four
horsemen, which appear in chapter six of
the book, deliver “Famine,” “Pestilence,”
“War” and “Death,” the titles of Knauss’s
four paintings. Knauss said that the drawings
served as prototypes for the large paintings,
explaining that although pen and ink remains
his medium of choice, he wanted viewers to
be impacted by the spectacle of the imposing

paintings.

Knauss addressed several aspects of
his personal style in his Artist’s Statement,
which is affixed to the wall as part of the ex-
hibit. “Due to my interest in graphic arts, I
prefer to work primarily with representation-
al and figural subject matter,” he wrote. “The
sin series, with its combination of caricature
and metaphor, served as the springboard to
my subsequent, more ambitious horseman
series.”

Knauss explained that he used both the
four elements and the primary colors as mo-
tifs to increase viewer’s visceral identifica-
tion with the pieces’ symbolism, although
the original colors are white, black, red and
pale.

Perhaps the most striking aspect of “End-
games” are the quotations that accompany
each piece. The drawings in the sin series
are underscored with quotations from Shake-
speare, including passages from “The Tem-
pest,” “The Merchant of Venice,” “Henry
IV” and Sonnet 129.

The horseman groups are also accom-
panied by quotations from Shakespeare,
as well as passages drawn from the British

Romantic poets William Blake and Samuel °

Taylor Coleridge. Knauss’s painting “War”
is accompanied by two stanzas from Blake’s
“The Tyger,” which describes the creature’s
nearly god-like power and ferocity.

Knauss mentioned that the entire show,
not only the horseman pieces, were inspired
by his fascination with apocalypse. “Apoca-
lyptic speculations are both multi-generation-
al and cross-cultural,” he writes. “Sickness,
starvation, violence and death have been, and
always will be fundamental aspects of the
human condition: Given the myriad politi-
cal, economic and environmental concerns
facing twenty-first century society, however,
perhaps the sign-carriers are on to something
after all. Where’s a good ark when you need
one?”

~

Two students work with Dr. Verna Case
by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

two decades. The grant program, directed by
Dr. Verna Case, includes a number of other
programs as well. HHMI sponsors a student
summer research program and faculty men-
torship, as well as a post-graduate Teaching
and Research Internship program and the em-
ployment of a science outreach coordinator.
“One of the other possible initiatives to be
funded by the grant includes providing in-
structive aid in local“elementary and middle
schools. “In North Carolina there is a high
percentage of students who just don’t under-
stand the sciences at all. It’s supposed to be
an outreach program in order to encourage

d by HHMI erant

Prssc:

as a part of the mentoring program funded

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010 3

POM a

students to get into the sciences and think of
it as a possible career pathway,” said Olivia
Ho-Shing ’10, a biology major who plans to
be involved in the program.“You get training
before you go on how to teach them and what
they need help with. It’s not anything they
wouldn’t learn in school; just having some-
one who’s younger teach it.”

“Tt sounds like a really promising pro-
gram,” Ho-Shing continued. “It’s also really
good for science majors to be able to com-
municate something to someone who needs
help learning it, because a lot of time scien-
tist struggle to communicate their research.”

The Davidsonian
is currently seeking
editorial staff.

Students with experience
working on campus
publications are encouraged
to apply. Please contact
Caroline (cawood) or Kelsey

(kelilley) for deadlines
and details.

ot interested in editing, but have questions about
writing for News? Contact cawood or kelilley.

