The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

The DAVIDSONIAN.

DR. DOBYNS COMING TODAY.

Beginning tonight, Dr. W. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., will begin a series of services in Shearer Hall for the
men of the college. Dr. Dobyns is said to be one of the most powerful leaders of young men in
the Southern Church and an earnest speaker. He comes with a message to the students on their life problems, and
a hall full of students is anticipated for his every night. There will be special music. In addition to the
public meetings, Dr. Dobyns will gladly meet in interviews with any of the men personally.

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

"Did not Newberry Davidson though?" asked he. "In the first half?"
"Was not Newberry Red and Black later?" quoth TP with a laugh.

Basketball is in the air—let it come down through the baskets, and may the best and best-backed class team win!

APRIVILEGE.

Dr. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., comes to us this week for a series of night services. He is a
man of wide experiences and of wonderful influence among men in his city and state. With a large church and
much other work on his hands, he is making a sacrifice to be with the men of Davidson for a
week. Every student should attend the evening services, not from a sense of mere duty, but as a privilege, which
it certainly will be. His visit will be an uplift and inspiration to the whole college, as he discusses with
us in public and private the vital religious problems of our college life.

INTERESTING STATISTICS.

Of the 319 students who have matriculated to date in the college office, a little over one half are from
the State of North Carolina; 168 are from the native State, and the remaining 151 are drawn from thirteen other
States and three foreign countries. Next to North Carolina, South Carolina has the largest representation, with 57. Georgia follows with
34. Mississippi and Virginia tie with 13. Tennessee has sent 9 and Arkansas 6. Texas, Kentucky, Oklahoma, Alabama, New Jersey,
Cuba, and Louisiana have one or two each. The foreign countries represented are China, Japan, and Persia, China leading with
7 men. It is an interesting fact that Wake Forest, University of N.C., Trinity, and A. & M. all together
have 100 students outside of North Carolina. Davidson has 151 out of the State, three-fourths as many as the four
largest colleges of the State put together, a striking comment on the wide sphere of influence which Davidson, though small
in numbers relatively, enjoys throughout the South.

One hundred and fifty-eight of the students enrolling this year expressed their "preferred life work" on their matriculation blanks. Fifty
expect to go into the ministry, 37 into medicine, 26 into law, 13 into engineering, 9 into business, 7 into
teaching, 5 into banking. Farming, dentistry, pharmacy, chemistry, journalism, and cotton brokerage each has two or three devotees. The remainder
are undecided. Two hundred and seventy-four of the students are Presbyterians, 13 are Methodists, 9 Baptists, 5 Episcopalians, and 18
are not members of churches.

NEW FRATERNITY HALL.

Work on the new Kappa Sigma fraternity hall in Oak Row is progressing rapidly and is expected to be finished
by November 1.

Golden, of the class of '13, will be here also for the week to assist in the campaign. The old
men remember him with affection as "Vogo." President his Senior year of the Association, will welcome him back. The Association
is looking forward to a week of rich inspiration and help, which should touch the deep springs of the college
life.

COMING RIVALS.

Wake Forest last Saturday showed a great increase in strength when that college defeated the strong team from the battleship
Franklin. Reports from the Baptist institution say that the Wake Forest team grows stronger each day. The season opened with
many new players and new material for a team. In the A. & M. and Carolina games, the teams were
at a great disadvantage due to an almost entirely new team. Reports also say that they are training up for
the Thanksgiving game and aredetermined to get revenge on the Presbyterians for the defeat given them in previous contests. The
University of South Carolina is strengthening each day. 'Red' Edgerton and Costello have also been handicapped with a new team
but are rapidly getting it into shape. The game on November 14 will be the "same" game, and that’s no
joke. The University of North Carolina has the best and strongest team in the history of that institution, but never
mind that. "On to Winston" — October 4. Everybody be there to back up the "Red and Black Machine." Furman
is making a good showing and should be in good form by November 7.

PLAY CITADEL GAME IN CHARLOTTE, OCTOBER 24.

The new Charlotte Athletic Association, formed last week, has succeeded in landing the Citadel-Davidson game scheduled for October 24. Citadel
has this year one of the strongest teams they have ever put out, and a lively contest is expected.

THE WOFFORD GAME TRANSFERRED.

The Wofford game has been transferred to Spartanburg. It has been decided upon as the best policy on account of
the weak team of Wofford, this being their first year in football. The attractive proposition made to Davidson to come
to Spartanburg, and the fact that the Association has been able to secure the Citadel for a game in Charlotte,
which the students can have an opportunity to see, makes the transfer worthwhile. Manager Kluttz has been very fortunate in
securing this change.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

Wake Forest—The Senior class at Wake Forest, in order to show its sympathy with the farmers of the South, has
bought a bale of 10-cent cotton.

University of N.C.—The query for the High School Debating Union of N.C., as decided upon by the committee from the
University, reads: "Resolved, That the United States should adopt the policy of subsidizing its merchant marines engaged in the foreign
trade." One hundred and fifty schools participated in the contest last year, and it is expected that fully as many
will take part this year.

October 14, 1914

WANT ADS

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To hire you an. B. Mooney. Phone 40.

LOST—A gray sweater with name "R. Jenkins" on it. Return to N. Watts and receive reward.

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE.

The following men are scheduled to come off in the literary societies next Monday Morning:

DECLAMATIONS AND ORATIONS October 19.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY.

Alexander McLeod, J. W. Young, W. D. Bachelor, F. M. McGeach, Burgin, Cushman Studio, Charlotte, N.C. Kodak finishing, See McNeil,
Howland, R. Rouse, Vebane, Rowland, Mitchell.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

FAW & CARTER NO. 6 RUMPLE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N.C.

Full Faculty, Thorough Instruction, WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON

HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS

New Stock, Correct Styles at low prices. European war has not increased our prices. Our Line of Regal $4, $4.50,
and $5 Shoes are the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the
war has raised the price?

See Our New Shipment of $2.00 and $3.00 hats. See Our Line of Rain Coats, Sweaters, Shirts, Collars, Hosiery, Hats,
Caps, Etc.

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

The Store Which Sells SCHLOSS BROS.’ SUITS

You probably knew this, but the fact that we sell these clothes is one of the facts we want to
have known about our store. We also handle Florsheim Shoes, Holeproof Hosiery, Hats, and Caps. The Swellest Styles of the
Season.
