2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:30 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick.......... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville...... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
I. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

REPORTERS’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
I. H. Hamilton
T. M. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

TWENTY YEARS OF SENIOR SPEAKING.

Twenty years ago, in 1894, the first Senior Speaking exercises were held at Davidson. Junior Speaking had existed for some time before this. The Senior exercises then were held in April, and the practice was continued until two years ago, when they were moved to Thanksgiving, a decided improvement, which has doubled the gaiety and pleasure of the occasion. But twenty years have not dimmed the pleasure, nor lessened the joys of this, one of the three social events of the year. Rather has each year brought prettier and fairer ladies from the Old North State and her sisters to grace the festivities by their presence and laughter. May this speaking be the crown of all, and the timid, trembling Seniors who “say their little pieces” find rich inspiration from the daughters of the Sunny South who are our visitors this week.

DEPOT ETHICS.

The editor of the Magazine came out with a strong editorial last month on Campus Ethics. He limited his field of student honor to the campus, however, and failed to make clear what so many failed to recognize, namely, that the same high gentlemanly standard is expected of every Davidson man, whether he be on the walks between the dormitories, or out in the country, or in another city. Carelessness as to this fact has been often noticed, but never called to the attention of the whole student body, as it was last week, when an article appeared in a weekly paper read in Presbyterian circles of the State, describing the rowdy conduct of some Davidson students at the train toward some ladies in one of the coaches. This is no new thing, but it took such a severe, yet kindly-worded comment from one outside to bring it forcibly to attention. The student body by a rising vote the morning after the appearance of this article, decided to place its heavy moral stamp of disapproval upon what already should come under student government. It is a thing which would never be done at home or if the lady were on the campus. Let us hope for the honor of Davidson, that it will never be noticed again.

IMPORTANT NOTICE.

All persons having bills against the Athletic Association should see that they get in to the treasurer immediately, as final reports of the Fall business will be made promptly following the Thanksgiving game. Settlement of any invoices after that time will probably be delayed indefinitely.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 25, 1914

URNER-KING.

The following invitations have been received by friends of Mr. Robert King in this city:

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Henry Urner
request the honor of your presence
at the marriage of their daughter
Ann
to
Mr. Robert King,
Wednesday evening, November the twenty-fifth
at half after eight o'clock,
Centenary Methodist Church,
Richmond, Virginia.

The above is of especial interest to the student body because of the fact that Mr. King is a prominent alumnus of Davidson, being a member of the class of 1906. After graduating from Davidson, with honors, he attended Union Theological Seminary. Following his graduation from that institution he was appointed evangelist in the Synod of North Carolina, until last year, when he was offered and accepted the presidency of James Sprunt Institute, at Kenansville, N.C.

ALUMNI NOTES.

The Junior class at Columbia Theological Seminary organized last Tuesday, electing Davidson men to fill every office. The officers were as follows: P. W. DuBose ('14), president; Neil McInnis ('14), vice-president, and S. B. Hoyt ('13), secretary and treasurer.

In a letter from Chas. Montgomery, Jr. ('09), who is president of the Georgia Alumni Association, he says: “The Atlanta members of the DavidsonThe College Alumni Association of Georgia met last Saturday at the Ansley Hotel. Mr. I. Q. Pharr was present and presented very ably the scope and aim of the Alumni Athletic Association, and secured a number of subscriptions. “The Georgia Alumni are anxious to see athletics at Davidson go forward and will contribute their share toward the cause. The alumni hope that the managers for the season of 1915 will arrange games with teams in this section, some of them to be played in Atlanta. We would like very much to have a game with the University of Georgia here next year, and we believe we could beat them easily. We were all glad to hear of the good showing made against Carolina. A number of us had seen Carolina in action against Georgia, and we were gratified with the result of the game, in view of all the circumstances.”

GAME IS PLENTIFUL. Many nimrods are out daily pursuing the game that is now legal to kill, and all report that game is very plentiful this season. It would be well to note the fact that the season is closed for quail until the first of December, and there is also a fine for hunting on posted land. The game that is now lawful to shoot are rabbits, doves, and ducks, all of which have been found within a few miles radius of the college.

HALL FINISHED. The Kappa Sigma Fraternity has finished and moved into its new hall. It is located in the north end of Oak Row.

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE. On account of the concert and reception Saturday night there will be no society. The following is the schedule for next Monday morning:

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Dumas
Mayfield
Patrick
McBrayer
Perry
McKay
McKinney
McCleod

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY.
Cumming
Thames
Wooten
Nisbet
Clark
McDonald, G.
Stough
Carter

WANT ADS. RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines. BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners. Anything in Felt or Leather Goods. FAW & CARTER NO. 6 RUMPLE.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

WINE SAP APPLES. 30 cents peck. See Geo. Robson at Infirmary.

WANTED—To decorate your room with Harrison-Fisher pictures. Special holiday prices. See us at No. 26 Rumple.

SIDE-LINE DOPE. Show your spirit Wednesday night at the big “pep” meeting just after supper. Be there! Monday afternoon the scrimmage was grueling and was one of the best of the season. Here's to the Scrubs—they have been faithful and loyal and deserve a great deal of credit for sticking to the end. The whole team has worked hard and deserves lots of credit for what they have accomplished.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C. Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction. WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES.

REGAL SHOES. STEP IN! It’s a Step Up in Styles. To become familiar with the quality of a Regal is to know the best valued Shoe. You will find in these Shoes style, ease, service, and individuality that you will get in no other Shoe at the same price.

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON. HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS.

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company. Our Line of DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR for men, union and separate pieces, are the best the world affords. We have a line of ladies’ Coat Suits, and Coats, also children's Coats of the newest materials and styles. Come in and look them over. In fact, we have anything you could wish for in new, up-to-date merchandise. Our motto: You are as welcome to look as to buy. Buy first and look neat longest.

SAVE MONEY. We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The Swellest Styles of the Season. See us before you buy.