VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, N.C.

Rally Meeting and Freshmen Reception Big Success. Many Visitors Present. Stirring Talks and Addresses Made.

Following the custom of the college for several years past, the Y. M. C. A. tendered the Freshmen a reception on last Monday evening on the Library lawn. Preceding the reception, there was a rally meeting in Shearer Hall. Stirring talks were made by some of the students and faculty, giving the new men some idea of the traditions and institutions of the college and introducing them to the activities of the campus.

The address of welcome was delivered by Professor Currie and was characterized by cordiality and sound advice to the new men. After welcoming the freshmen to the college, to the town, and to the homes of the faculty, Professor Currie touched on the various phases of college life and cautioned all against the danger of becoming one-sided by devoting themselves to one thing too early. He said that in view of present world conditions, the responsibility rested upon the class of 1918 as never before to make of themselves men, men who could do the work if necessary of two or even three men.

Following the address of welcome, Alfred Scarborough, president of the student body, explained briefly the honor system and the democratic form of self-government in vogue at Davidson. After this, Enoch Faw spoke of the publications of the college, saying that while the Magazine was published by the literary societies, both the newspaper and the annual were dependent upon the hearty support and co-operation of every member of the student body in order to be a success. “Chink” Wilkinson, in characteristic style, spoke of the activities of the campus, laying special stress on athletics and The Davidsonian. The literary societies were next spoken of by Norman Johnson, and his speech was a clear example of the excellent training received in the organizations which he represented.

The subject of “Pep” was ably handled by Ulman Alexander, and in a short, snappy talk, he brought ginger into the meeting in a way which foretold great things to be accomplished during the year. No more able exponent of the subject of athletics could be found on the Hill than the next speaker on the program, Lex Kluttz, whose subject was “Athletics—Bright Outlook.” He told of the activity of the Alumni Association and its excellent work in providing the best coaching staff in the South. He spoke of the need of the “New Davidson Pep” founded upon the Davidson spirit, which is famous especially throughout the South and wherever Davidson men are to be found. The matter of the need for the hearty backing of the entire student body was mentioned by him, and every man urged to buy a season ticket at once and thus place the Association upon a solid basis.

Professor Blythe, president of the Alumni Athletic Association, spoke of the support which the Alumni are ready and anxious to extend to the college and of the obligation which the student body is under to show themselves worthy of this interest. “Chief” Mullen, in his usual happy manner, introduced the faculty to the new students in a way which was not only interesting to the men who have not yet become acquainted with the professors.

(Continued on page 4)

Week. Personal.

The new drug store that is being built next to Armour Brothers is nearing completion and will be opened to the students within the next few days. The enrollment of the local graded school, which opened Tuesday, is about 160. Mr. Cummins, a graduate of Washington and Lee, is the new principal, and will be assisted by the same staff as last year. General Keesler, of Greenwood, Miss., was one of the recent visitors. Mr. J. V. Lucas, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Friday. Mr. John K. Morehead, of Charlotte, motored up Friday to witness football practice. Mr. Lewis McDuffie, class of ‘13, of Columbus, Ga., was a visitor here for the past few days.

Besides the return of our last year's Co-Ed, the college rejoices to see that our Co-Educational department has two new students. They are heartily welcomed into our midst. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle has moved into the Ellinwood home, next to Professor Currie’s house. Miss Myrtle Houston returned on Friday for a visit home. Miss Maud Vinson's “Seminary” has opened again with five young ladies in attendance: Misses Catharine Worth, Mary Parks Grey, Winnie Potts, Irene Hudson, and Bertie Christenbury. Miss Catharine Potts is recovering rapidly now from a severe case of typhoid fever. Mr. Ed. Johnston (14), of the town, will teach English this year in the Washington (N. C.) High School. Mr. Andrews, the station agent, has bought the property adjoining Mrs. Whitaker's home and will move there.

David Worth, of the town, who has been attending McCallie School in Chattanooga, has entered college here this year. Miss Pauline Seabrook is visiting her cousin, Miss Mary Richards. She leaves soon to enter Winthrop College. Several town girls will go off to college this fall: Miss Mary Richards, to Columbia Women's College; Miss Mildred Johnson, to Converse; Misses Susie Brady and Louise Campbell, to the State Normal in Greensboro; Miss Charlotte Cranford, to Hendersonville; Misses Myrtle and Floss Houston, to Asheville; Miss Frances Worth, to Winston-Salem; Miss Bonnie Shelton will return to Elizabeth College, in Charlotte. J. Henry Smith, son of former President H. L. Smith, is visiting at the Robson home. He is the same fun-loving “Jammie,” but a much larger one now, to his many friends in the town.

Dr. Richards returned last week from a week's visit to Montreat.

Bright Outlook. Three Hundred.

September 3 brought a happy, jovial bunch of old men back to the old college, glad to be back “on the Hill,” glad to meet the fellows again. Along with the old men came a promising bunch of Freshmen, not so anxious to arrive, perhaps, but with determination to make a name for themselves here at Davidson. The register shows a total enrollment so far.far of 286 students; 110 of these are Freshmen, 83 Sophs, 54 Juniors, 36 Seniors, and 4 M.A. students. This number will be steadily increased as Freshmen continue to come in, and several old students are on the way, having been delayed in Germany on account of the European War. Many improvements are noticeable on the campus. The campus is more beautiful than ever before, new fixtures have been added to Rumple Dormitory, Dr. Martin's house is being remodeled, Dr. T.M. McConnell’s house has been completed. Mr. and Mrs. Jackson have moved into their new home, and the Gymnasium will soon be improved. Now that the men are becoming settled, the various college activities are opening with a rush. Bright prospects are visible for athletics this year. Coach Fetzer is rapidly training a promising football squad. The tennis tournament will be held soon, and the fall track work will soon be in full swing. The Book Exchange rendered efficient service enabling men to obtain second-hand books readily. The Y.M.C.A. and Literary societies will open their work this week, and great things are expected. The annual “Pep” meeting and Freshman reception, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A., were held Monday night. The outlook is indeed bright for the most successful year in the history of the college with such a Freshman class brimming with possibilities, and with the old men back, ready for work.

MEMBERSHIP RALLY DAY NIGHT. THURSDAY

At 7:15 Thursday night, a stirring Membership Rally Meeting for the Y.M.C.A. will be held. There will be a few short and lively talks on the threefold motto of the Association, and the relation of the Y.M.C.A. to the Student Body and the individual student. All the old men and especially the new men are invited and urged to attend the meeting.

SENIORS ELECT OFFICERS.

At a meeting of the Senior class Monday afternoon, the following officers were elected: President, Norman Johnson; Vice-President, U. S. Alexander; Secretary and Treasurer, W. M. Griffin; Historian, C. M. Gibbs; Poet, J. W. S. Gilchrist; Member Student Council, F. W. Price; Class Mascot, Master Riggs McConnell.

PAN-HELLENIC RESOLUTION.

At a recent meeting of the Pan Hellenic Council the following resolution was unanimously adopted: “Resolved: That no man shall be initiated into any fraternity before he has successfully completed three-fifths of his required term's work during the specific preceding term.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 9, 1914.

The College Opens With Athletic Prospects Unusually Bright. Social and Total Enrollment to Date Nearly Excellent Coaching Staff Secured. Other Athletic News.

Davidson has entered upon a new era in athletics and the future is the brightest that we have had in years. The football outlook is one which we can all feel good over, and know that the team will be one that will be a credit to the college. Since the opening, the old football men have been gradually returning. Among them are Walker, Crayton, Laird, Keesler, Watkins, McKay, Julian, and White, of last year’s Varsity squad. Dr. Lingle's ship having returned, McKinnon and Anderson will be out in uniform shortly. All are glad to have back two of year before last's Varsity men, VanDevanter and Pharr. Both will greatly strengthen the team. Captain Howell will probably stay, but is undecided at present. Christenbury will also probably be out. The Freshmen material looks promising, and with the old men we have to form a nucleus, the coaches should develop a strong team fast. Never before has Davidson had such an array of coaches. There is no doubt of the fact that the staff on the field Monday and Tuesday afternoons cannot be surpassed in the South. It would have been impossible for the Alumni to have secured any man in the United States who would have fit so well into the place of athletic director and coach as R. A. Fetzer. Nelson Harris, of the University of Virginia, is his most capable assistant. Among the Alumni assistants back are the following: Mr. “Bill” McKay Fetzer is one of the most capable coaches to be found anywhere, and his presence on the staff for a few days means a great deal to the team. Among the others are Irving P. Graham, who has coached Riverside with such success for the past two years; DeWitt Kluttz, former Woodberry coach, and now class coach at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Hamilton McKay and D. A. Biggers are also out to assist. Former Coach Simmons, now of Charlotte, one of the best coaches Davidson has ever had, has been asked, and will most probably be up frequently to assist in putting out a creditable team. The college is glad to see them all, and hopes many will follow in their lead. The first big game will be with Clemson on our own ground. Last fall they licked a game with us on their own ground. This year Davidson must come back at them strong and hard. It is sure to be a hard-fought contest when the “Tigers” get here. The next big game will be with the University of North Carolina. A special train has been arranged to take the student body to Winston-Salem, also a holiday will most probably be given on that date, October 31. Let the byword be “On to Winston. Victory for Davidson!” North Carolina secured a scanty 6-0 victory over Davidson last season in the last ten minutes of play on a disputed foul. They have a strong team, no doubt, and a high-priced coaching staff, but that old “Pep” which has been revived here, like Banquo’s ghost, cannot be downed. Newberry, Wofford, and Furman all have unusually good prospects for this fall, and indications are that these will be hard, snappy games. The University of South Carolina, and Wake Forest, two of Davidson's old rivals, will have to be hotly fought. In regard to athletics, there is a new feeling in the atmosphere. Yes! It is (Continued on page 4)

See Wm. E. Williams before arranging for your washing.