4 DAVIDSON ALMOST TRIUMPHS OVER STATE ATH. CHAMPS. 
(Continued from page 1.)

On a wild throw, two scored. In the last half of the ninth, when it had begun to rain and two were down, Captain Spence beat out a slow grounder. After seeing the catcher tumble, he started for second and the ball was thrown wild, Spence going to third. The outfielder pegged to third, which was errored, and he crossed the plate, which broke the tie. Not a one of the three runs made was earned. The score:

DAVIDSON AB R H PO E
Christenbury, ss 6 1 1 2 0
Kluttz, lf 5 1 2 1 0
Crayton, 1b 5 0 1 6 1
Stough, rf 5 0 2 1 0
Osteen, p 4 0 1 1 0
Somerville, 2b 5 0 1 9 0
Walker, cf 2 0 1 1 0
Elliott, c 4 0 1 8 1
Watkins, 3b 2 0 1 2 2
38 2 10 26 3

TRINITY AB R H PO E
Durham, 3b 4 0 0 1 1
Anderson, ss 4 0 1 1 0
Spence, cf 4 1 0 2 0
Thorne, lf 4 0 2 2 0
Maddox, c 3 1 2 11 0
Siler, 1b 4 0 2 9 0
Cooke, rf 2 1 0 0 0
Shore, 2b 3 0 1 0 0
Kanipe, p 3 0 0 0 1
31 3 8 27 2

Two-base hits: Christenbury, Thorne. Three-base: Stough. Stolen bases: Anderson, Thorne, Spence, Kluttz (2). Struck out by Osteen 10, by Kanipe 7. Time: 1:30.

WAKE FOREST GAME.
Thursday a.m. the squad was taken back to the woods—to Wake Forest. However, too much rain upon their red clay field rendered it unfit to play upon, so the game was postponed.

A. & M. GAME.
As Currie had been sick for a day or so, and Bill had been working so much of late, Coach put "Power House Andy" on the mound against the State Champs. From the time the first ball was thrown, the entire "Red and Black Machine" unceasingly fought, never losing their spirit until the last ball was thrown. The Davidsonians played the big boys off their feet and up until the ninth it looked like a victory. The Techs were outplayed at every stage of the game. Anderson was supported in big league style, and time after time the Techs were cut off from scoring by good teamwork. Two were cut off at the plate, one at third, and three on second attempting to steal. Stough starred in the right garden, making several beautiful catches, two perfect pegs, and besides hitting out two safeties. The A. & M. team had little chance, while the Red and Black Machine was putting up a "game fight" every minute of play. They had the real old-fashioned Davidson fighting spirit.

Davidson scored in the first inning when Kluttz landed on third after hitting to left fielder, who erred, and Crayton scored him on a sacrifice fly. In the fourth, Stough slashed one to right field for a single, Elliott’s bunt was thrown wild, and each advanced a base. Stough scored on Walker's grounder to second. The next two got out. In the eighth, Christenbury got on error, Crayton sacrificed him down, Stough singled, and Christenbury scored the third run.

A. & M. scored one in the second. Patton singled, Hodgin walked. On the next ball to short, Patton is out at third by Christenbury's good throw. Garren hits a bagger to right, but Hodgin is cut off by Stough’s peg. Hodgin scores on error, and the next man is caught at the plate. In the next inning and in the seventh, they registered two more, each time Winston singling, scoring Correll. In the last of the ninth, with the score tied and one out, Kincaid walked and Farmer singled. At this time, Russell was sent in as a pinch hitter and hit a liner to left center, which scored the winning run.

Anderson pitched a good game, and with the support given him and the ginger and pep of the whole team, should have had the game, but luck broke wrong again. The team showed up in far the best form of the season, and prospects look bright for the remaining three weeks.

Score by innings:
R H E
Davidson 100 100 010—3 4 2
A. & M. 010 000 101—4 9 2

Batteries: Anderson and Elliott, Kincaid and Winston.best work Monday was an ideal day for baseball, and a large crowd was out to see the game. From a financial side, it was very successful, and until the latter part of the game, it looked like the game would be bagged. The game was lost 3 to 2 by the regular lead of one run. Davidson outplayed the Leaguers at every stage of the game, and with 9 hits should have made a half-dozen scores. Davidson scored one in the first when Christy doubled, and Crayton tripled to center. During the game, there were men on third several times, and many glorious opportunities to sew it up. In the eighth, Kluttez hit a double, and when Crayton’s grounder was errored at first, Kluttez scored. In the ninth, hitting for Watkins, singled but was caught off the bag. Currie was out. Christenbury singled, and signals were out. In the fifth, on an easy out, the ball fell from Crayton’s hand, and this followed by a couple of hits and errors allowed two scores. In the eighth, “Red” Stewart, a big leaguer who was not due to be with Winston, doubled and scored on a single. 

Score:
Davidson 100 000 010—2
Winston-Salem 000 020 01\—3

Battery: Osteen, Currie, and Elliott.

OFF TO COLUMBIA.
On Tuesday, the team left to meet the U. of S.C.’s strong aggregation in two games. Carolina has had a most successful season thus far this spring, and reports say that they have the best team of several years. Stough has been shifted to center, and Walker to left, and the batting line-up will be changed slightly for these games, thereby giving more strength to the team. The “Red and Black Machine” put up the best game in several years in baseball against Raleigh. Raleigh papers said that they had more “pep” and played the fastest and best defensive game seen there this season. All this shows bright prospects ahead. The games with P.C. of S.C. had to be canceled as these exceeded the number of days allowed off the Hill.

GYM TEAM HAS GOOD TRIP.
The Gym Team returned from Sumter the first of this week after an eventful and enjoyable trip to Sumter, S.C. An exhibition was given Thursday night. A feature was the clown work. On Friday night, the basketball team triumphed over the Sumter Y.M.C.A. team 21-0. James secured 18 of Davidson's points, and Macdonald 10.

BATTING AVERAGES.
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Anderson, .333; Currie, .333; Stough, .121; Kutz, .318; Crayton, .200; Brown, .250; Christenbury, .233; Osteen, .181; Walker, .100; Elliott, .100.

On Monday, Bill Johnson, a former star infielder of Davidson, arrived and will assist Coach Cook in rounding the “Red and Black Machine” into final shape for the remaining games.

On Monday, a team from the three dormitories defeated one gathered from Chambers, the Rows, and town, 11 to 6.