2 The Davidsonian | Wednesday of the College Year | Ridge grounds t | No man can give

Published every by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Editor-in-Chief
J.P. Williams... Assistant Editor
P.L.D. Patrick... Business Manager
W.G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
L.E. Faw
I.W. Kluttz
C.W. Gignilliat
W.A. McIlwaine
J.G. Patton
J.H. Carson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

THE NORTH CAROLINA GAME.

The North Carolina game is in the air this week, and furnishes the subject of conversation on every occasion. Davidson men are stirred up as they have not been for years over the splendid showing which the team has made. The "Red and Black Electric Machine" has shown itself superior to every eleven that it has met. This is due to the high-class coaching of Fetzer and Harris, and in the games to the cheering and backing from the sidelines. The men on the team feel that they have the support of every man in the student body, and of the host of alumni, and these in turn have the utmost confidence in the team. The result is a stronger unity between the players and the hundreds of Davidson men who are watching them than there has been since the famous days of 1903-1907.

Next Saturday Davidson will fight out its hardest battle of the whole season with the mighty Tarheels. All the following games Davidson is confident of winning. Will we win this one? A few years ago, when Davidson met Carolina, every odd, as it is this year, was against her. Carolina had a powerful eleven, and was aspiring toward the Southern championship. At 3:30 one Saturday afternoon, the Tarheels were marching into the game, confident of victory. Two hours later, the proud warriors were leaving the field, bowed and crushed by a 6-0 defeat at the hands of the fighting and furious Electric Machine put out by Simpson.

Last Saturday, great Yale, "Tigers of the Football World," were humbled in the dust by Washington and Jefferson, a college of three hundred. And yet thou sayest, "What are we against so many?"

The Charlotte News predicts a 21-7 victory for Carolina. We are not predicting. We know that if Davidson fights hard, fights hard like it has in games past, and if every loyal Davidson man will stand behind this team with might and power next Saturday afternoon, football fandom will be furnished a big surprise, and Davidson men the world over will rise up in pride.

There will be two Pep-rally meetings this week on Wednesday and Friday nights. Every student, whether he goes to Winston or not, should attend these meetings, to contribute his share to them. And when, on Saturday, the north-bound train begins to pull out, it should carry on board, and it will, a force in enthusiasm, determination, and spirit, that will help the team to stop short of nothing but its very best.

THE COTTAGE CAMPAIGN.

It is heartily agreed by all college leaders that one of the greatest molding forces in Southern student life today is the summer gathering at Robert E. Lee Hall, in the Blue Ridge of North Carolina. Any man ought to consider it a privilege to have part in the building up of so far-reaching and powerful an agency. A campaign is now being launched here whereby Davidson will raise half the cost of one of the ten cottages which are to be built on the Blue Ridge by ten Southern colleges. One hundred dollars, but every man who feels the value of such a dynamic moral and religious force among Southern students, whether he is ever able to go to one of the conferences or not, will always be glad if he has a part, no matter how small, in giving Davidson a permanent home at Blue Ridge.

THANKS.

Every student and alumni of Davidson appreciates the support that they have been given in athletics in the prominent papers of the State, especially in the Charlotte News. This paper has certainly given us their support and praised our athletics very much. In writing to authorities here the News said: "We consider that Charlotte is Davidson's town and that Davidson is, more or less, Charlotte’s college, therefore this town and its papers should favor Davidson in the way of news as much as possible." We feel sure that we express the sentiments of every Davidsonian in thanking this paper for what they have said and done for us.

J.H.C.

SENIOR SPEAKING NEAR.

The Senior oratorical exercises will be held this year...On Friday and Saturday following Thanksgiving, November 27 and 28, the faculty has granted Saturday, the 28th, as a holiday for the occasion, which, of course, is in addition to the regular Thanksgiving holiday. There are approximately forty members of the Senior class who will speak in the oratorical exercises this year. This number, after being divided alphabetically into four sections of ten each, will be placed on the program in the following order: Section one, Friday afternoon; section two, Friday evening; section three, Saturday morning; section four, Saturday afternoon. On Sunday afternoon, immediately following the speaking exercises, the gymnasium team will give an exhibition in Shearer Hall. At night the faculty will give a reception complimentary to the Senior class, in the parlors of the Library. A more complete program will be given as soon as it can be arranged.

PHARR TRAVELS FOR ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

“Bum” Pharr left Charlotte last Friday to be away about six weeks traveling in the interests of the Alumni Athletic Association. This organization, which was formed here last Commencement, has already done much for the athletics of the college both in a financial way and in securing an efficient coaching staff. That their efforts have been of some avail is shown by the increased pep in both the team and the student body, and in the manner that the team has handled itself. The athletic prospects here are brighter than they have been for several years past, and if those alumni who are already interested will continue their support, and if others will join in the movement, there is no reason why Davidson shouldn't in a few years regain her former position in athletics. Pharr will cover Virginia, North and South Carolina, and Georgia, visiting all the principal cities where there are Davidson alumni.

DECLAMATIONS AND ORATIONS, NOV. 2.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY.
Monroe Overcash
Ormand Paisley
Richardson Rankin
Finley, T. M.
Scott, G. P.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Davis
Baker
Griffin
Lane
Patrick
Hunter
McIlwaine
Mitchell, T. J.
Rowland

There will be no debate Saturday night, October 31, on account of the game.

October 28, 1914

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO. Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners
Anything in Felt or Leather Goods
FAW & CARTER
NO. 6 RUMPLE

WANTED—To hire you an auto. J. Mooney. Phone 40.

LOST—A gray sweater with name “R. Jenkins” on it. Return to No. 4 Watts and receive reward.

BUY your Hardware from R. Mooney, Davidson, N. C.

EUMS INSTALL OFFICERS.

The second term officers of the Eumenean Society were installed Monday morning, the 26th, at the close of the regular exercises. Upon turning over the duties of office to the incoming officers, retiring President Johnson gave a short speech urging the members to support the new administration by faithful attendance upon the regular exercises and by thorough work. President Scarborough then took the floor, exhorting the Eumeneans to keep up the kind of work which has given the Eumenean Society its present place at Davidson. The other officers installed were J. P. Williams, vice-president; B. F. Hagood, secretary, and F. W. Price, reviewer.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty
Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

New Stock, Correct Styles at low prices. European war has not increased our prices. Our Line of Regal $4, $4.50 and $5 Shoes are the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the war has raised the price?

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company
The Store Which Sells SCHLOSS BROS.’ SUITS

You probably knew this, but the fact that we sell these clothes is one of the facts we want to have known about our store. We also handle Florsheim Shoes, Holeproof Hosiery, Hats and Caps. The Swellest Styles of the Season.

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON
HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS

Just Received—A line of the latest styles of Windsorette ties right off Broadway. See Our New Shipment of $2.00 and $3.00 hats. See Our Line of Rain Coats, Sweaters, Shirts, Collars, Hosiery, Hats, Caps, Etc.