GOLDEN ASSISTS - IN MEETINGS. (Concluded from page 1)

is at present pursuing his second year’s course at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., and the fact that he has torn himself away from his duties to come back to help Davidson shows his great love for his Alma Mater. Golden has been assisting Dr. Dobyns in the special Y. M. C. A. services held last week. The old men especially remember his cool, logical arguments, so baffling to his opponents in debate. The services that Golden rendered Davidson as her intercollegiate debater will not soon be forgotten. This same cool, clear-headed presentation of facts has characterized Golden’s addresses here during the past week. As he leaves for Richmond, Davidson unites in wishing him all success in his work.

HOLD INFORMAL PRAYER MEETINGS.

For several weeks prayer services have been held on every floor in college, and every morning before chapel an earnest group of men have been gathering in the Library for prayer. Mr. Gibbs, chairman of the Devotional Committee, assisted by P. B. Price and J. G. Patton, have been distributing valuable morning watch cards. These cards have also been sent far and wide to the various homes here represented. As a result, there has been a deep change in the lives of Davidson men.

FRESHMEN MEET THEIR WATERLOO.

Five-thirty, Monday afternoon found a large part of the Freshman class under the big umbrella tree posing for a picture. There was a curious crowd of onlookers surrounding them, carrying paper bags and various buckets and pans. Just as the evergreens were trying to look pretty, of a sudden a bag hit one on the ear, splashing its watery contents on the whole group. Pandemonium ensued, and in a second scores of bespattered “Fresh” were hastily retreating in every direction, pursued by the fateful water bags. One could see Patterson calling loudly for water as he ran over the campus, delayed again and again until it seemed that he would be washed away. Meek was suddenly recalled from his occupation as an onlooker by a bucket from behind. Thomas and the two Sprunts shone with glistening dew drops as they raced about. No one escaped. It seemed as if the Sophs got as wet carrying water as the Fresh did catching it. Even Juniors were wet by mistake and the general effect was rather dampening. Even when the poor wet things came to the dormitories, trouble awaited them. Every window became a loophole, and those who had escaped in the open had their turn. Supper was all that could stop the havoc, when the campus was left to darkness and hundreds of torn paper bags.

MANY ALUMNI ATTEND GAME.

Among those who witnessed the game were about a dozen Davidson Alumni, who cheered the team “on to victory.” They were led by probably the best yell leader that Davidson has ever had, S. W. Anderson, of Anderson, S. C., commonly known as “Shag.” He exhibited the same “pep” as of old, and led the team through every single Davidson yell and song. They were lined up in front of the Converse grandstand, which was filled with attractive young ladies, who time after time cheered for the Davidson team. Among the Alumni present were: W. S. Nicholson and T. A. McWhorter, of Union, S. C.; G. R. Westrop, Gaffney, S. C.; J. H. Greenlee, Spartanburg; H. L. Reaves, Columbia, S. C.; Brown and Mattison, from Anderson; James Todd, from Laurens, and about half a dozen others.

The DAVIDSONIAN. October 21, 1914

DAVIDSON (Concluded from page 1)

worked successfully. It began with the ball on Wofford’s 43-yard line. A forward pass to Austin was good for 25 yards, and Laird gained 5 yards, 3 yards and then went 10 yards for a touchdown. From a bad angle no goal was kicked. McKay was sent in for Van de Vanter, and Lawson for Keesler. Wofford kicks off and Walker returns 30 yards, and then runs 60 yards for a touchdown, but is called back, Davidson being off sides. Up to this time Osborne for Wofford had been playing a star game, being in every play. Laird gains 15 through the line, McKinnon 15, and Somerville 15, and McKinnon 30, and then McKinnon hits the line for the fifth touchdown. No goal. After several gains Lawson crossed for touchdown, and soon after Somerville runs for a score. Wofford made several gains around end but were unable to make any gain through the line. Wofford’s only touchdown came when Lawson made a forward pass which was intercepted by Huggins. He had an open field before him, and crossed for the first and only touchdown, butFailed to kick goal. First half: Davidson 47, Wofford 6. The second half was like unto the first, Davidson played a kicking and passing game almost entirely. In this latter half, Laird made two touchdowns, Walker, Keesler, and Van DeVanter each scored a touchdown. Wofford put up a game fight to the very last minute of play, but were powerless on account of lack of experience. The final score was: Davidson 88, Wofford 6. Referee: Parish, Georgia; Umpire: Carson, Clemson; Head Linesman, Brown.

A WORTHY DAVIDSONIAN.

On August 31, a young man in whom every true Davidsonian has a special interest, stood the examination for a license to practice law in North Carolina. It hardly needs to be said that he passed, for all who ever knew him, know that of such material success is made. When he came to Davidson he had many disadvantages; for one thing he was conditioned on a number of tickets. It was not long, however, before he won a place of respect among the students. In Prep Greek, he made several perfect review marks. He also made a “rep” as a declaimer during his Freshman year, barely missing the Fresh-Soph medal. The next year he came back with his same old piece, “Spartacus to the Gladiators,” and won in a walk. He was the first, and so far the only Sophomore to make the intercollegiate debating team here. During his three years’ stay he represented the college three times in debate, losing the first, but winning the other two. Davidson men can never forget the time he and “Bill” Golden snowed under the Wake Forest team at Winston-Salem. He came within four votes of being president of the student body. All were disappointed when he did not return for his Senior year, but entered the law department of the University of North Carolina where he became a distinguished student. He is now located at Charlotte, and from every appearance is doing well. He certainly had the prosperous look when here to witness the Davidson-Newberry game on the 10th. Those not intimately acquainted with him might consider him changeable, but the fact is, he never has changed. His environment has changed many times, and he has changed his tactics to meet the new conditions, but his honesty and tenacity of purpose have never been altered. He is “there with the goods,” and it is predicted that in a very short time Charlotte and North Carolina will recognize the merits of this typical Davidsonian, James McBryde Williams; better known among his Davidson contemporaries as “Socrates,” or simply “Sac.”

VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

EAT AT FRAZIER’S
“AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS
PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P.M.
See me for that Ford meter trip to Charlotte
“Watch the Light”

White Drug Co.
PRESCRIPTIONS
Carefully compounded by registered Pharmacists
You are cordially invited to inspect our line of DRUGS
Satisfied customers are our best advertisement

In addition to the best goods, all new and fresh, we offer you Prompt Service. Send us your orders and we will send the goods. Prescriptions a Specialty.
Jetton Drug Co.
Sales agency for Huyler’s Candy

For play and athletic sport, a glance through a Spalding catalogue. This encyclopedia of athletic paraphernalia will give you ideas you never thought of—it may even be the means of saving a trip to the doctor. For the first step towards good health is plenty of sane exercise, and the equipment listed in our catalogue is of such great variety that something is bound to appeal to you. A postal will bring this catalogue to you, free; or, better still, make a personal call.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St., ATLANTA, GA.

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.