4 ee ROYAL ALUMNUS APPEALS TO DAVIDSON FOOTBALL RIVALS. (Concluded from page 1)

revived, and the entire student body to back Fetzer's team, it will be a game well worth seeing. Wake Forest has few old men back, but an abundance of new material. Furman, Newberry, and Wofford’s prospects are very promising.

THE TEAM.

Since last issue, the Football Squad has been increased to four full teams, and the coaches are getting the men in better shape every day. New men are being sent to the training table at Booes every day. Charlie, the liniment “Osteopath,” is kept busy rubbing bruised spots. Regular football meetings are held after supper, blackboard work showing new plays, mastering of the rules, new signals, hitting the dummy, bucking the sledge, regular scrimmaging, etc., is getting the Squad in excellent trim. Tim Pharr will be greatly missed; with his usual fight and spirit. If Tim makes as good a preacher as a football player, he will be a power. Captain Howell has been on the sideline with a bad ankle for several days, and one or two others have had minor injuries. “Shim” Glover is losing several pounds of avoirdupois each afternoon.

Dr. C. M. Lentz, an alumnus of Gold Hill, was on the “Hill” Monday, and is back now to help with getting the Football Squad. He is familiarly known as “Luby,” and also as one of the best guards and centers that has ever been here. He was on the team when the “Old Davidson Spirit and Pep” was at its height. We are glad to have him back for a few days, and hope that many other alumni will also come to help.

Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, an alumnus who has always been loyal and interested in Davidson’s athletics, has been “on the Hill” frequently this Fall. He was one of the best, if not the best, fullbacks that “the Red and Black Machine” has ever had. He is on the Executive Committee of the Alumni Athletic Association, and to him much of the success of the movement is due. He has been out in uniform each time he came up, and his intentions are to come up each week during the season and help the coaching staff.

OUR GOLF CLUB.

Most of the golfers were away for the summer and there was not much “doing” down on the Golf Course. Much work was done in widening the Fairway of No. 1 and the Fairway for No. 4. Two of the hazards have been greatly improved and one trap remodeled. This will add greatly to the efficiency of the course. At the first meeting of the club last week, steps were taken to get the course ready for play by September 21, and the student membership fee was made $5.00. The club wants a strong and enthusiastic student membership. New members can secure their membership cards from Dr. J. M. McConnell, Treasurer. The club is encouraged to have among the new students one who comes bearing the laurels of one of the best courses in the State. Mr. Woodrow Clark won the open championship at Greensboro. We welcome him to our course and will back him to win honors for Davidson. This year the club will have many interesting social features. The first social evening will be given at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle next Tuesday at 8 p.m. The student members will be particularly welcome.

The Atlanta Alumni Association is active these days. On the first Saturday of each month, a dinner is held at the Hotel Ansley. These are informal affairs at which the doings of the college are discussed and the men have a chance to become better acquainted. A fund was started this summer with which to send a Georgia boy to Davidson each year.

TO MEET STRONG TENNIS

The DAVIDSONIAN. September 23, 1914

DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

To the Student Body of “Old D. C.”

Dear Friends:

Knowing that we are to play a game with Clemson on our home grounds in a very short time, and being very much interested in the result, I am going to tell you just a little of what I saw at the game at Clemson last fall when the score was in favor of the Tigers. The game really opened with a mighty whoop of about 650 men at the top of the hill who then came pouring, as if from the skies, down to the sidelines. It was only a short time until the game began between Davidson’s Varsity and Clemson’s Varsity—the ball was see-sawed up and down the field until out of Clemson’s territory, then Clemson’s second team wasput in, and as soon as they began losing ground and wind, the Varsity, who had had time to catch their breath, were put back to stop the Red and Black Machine. That last sentence tells just why Davidson was defeated at Clemson last fall. It was not because Clemson had the stronger team, but because Davidson had come to Clemson with one team, while Clemson was at home and worked three different teams against our one.

While in Charlotte
VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
6 E TRADE ST.

For my part, I cannot see the justice of playing 33 men against 11, but if it is just, I trust that Davidson will have the necessary 33 men in uniform the day of the game and win the game Davidson deserved to win last fall. Clemson did not win on superior football tactics, but simply overpowered our boys by force of numbers. Ask Coach Fetzer if I am right; he was referee at this game.

Now about the “Davidson Spirit!” When the game begins let every man in college be present and do his full part in encouraging the team. Let the Clemson team know just what the “Davidson Spirit” means. Make all the fuss you can, but fellows, when our quarterback is calling signals let all yells stop; if our team cannot hear the signals how will they know what to do? I hope to see a full account of the game in The Davidsonian, and I hope to read that Davidson won on account of the best team and the best college spirit.

Faithfully yours,
E.G. McCard, Jr. (’09)

TOURNAMENT BEGAN MONDAY
The Annual Tennis Tournament for the purpose of picking the Davidson Tennis Team opened Monday morning. The largest entry for many years is bringing great interest and many hard-fought contests. Several good matches were played on Monday, and many brilliant shots were uncorked. Perhaps the feature of Monday's matches was the hard-fought contest between P. Price and Brown vs. Roddey and McKee, each team taking a set; the third set was hotly contested, nearly every game going to deuce, and each server having a slight advantage. Finally, the match was won by Roddey and McKee, the score being 6-4, 4-6, 7-5.

The other doubles matches were as follows:
Steverman and Mitchell vs. Woods and Woods, won by Steverman and Mitchell; score, 4-6, 6-1, 6-0.
Price and Boggs vs. Howard and Mayfield, won by Price and Boggs; score, 6-3, 6-1.
Finley and Finley vs. Hoyt and Hawkins, won by Finley and Finley; score, 6-3, 6-0.
Harrell and Bitzer were defeated by Bellingrath and Kennedy, 6-3, 6-8, 6-2.

In Singles:
Boggs defeated Whiteside, 6-3, 8-6.
N. Johnson defeated Mayfield, 6-2.
F. Finley defeated R. G. Finley, 6-3.
Crawford defeated Steverman, 7-5.
F. Price defeated McKee, 6-1, 6-4.

At a recent meeting of the Tennis Association, the following officers were elected: Norman Johnson, President; J. P. Williams, Manager; F. W. Price, Assistant Manager.

EAT AT FRAZIER’S
“AIN’T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right.
Open Every Day Till 11 P.M.
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte.
“Watch the Light”

The weather is hot but you will keep cool if you buy ice cold drinks from White Drug Co.
Agents for Waterman's and Parker's Fountain Pens
Eastman Kodaks and Films
Full Line of STATIONERY
The New Drug Store
We Are Now Open for Business WITH A FULL LINE
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
Jetton Drug Co.

Quality and Satisfaction Combined makes clear the reason why SPALDING’S are outfitters to champions, whose implements must be invariably right. The Spalding Trade-Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment.
Write for free illustrated catalogue.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74-N. Broad St., ATLANTA, GA

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.