The DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1914

WOODROW WILSON RECEIVES PRESIDENT MARTIN.
(Concluded from Page 1.)

Counters With Educational Experts

While in Washington, President Martin also visited Dr. Claxton, United States Commissioner of Education, and together with Dr. Babcock, former Expert in Higher Education, who, fortunately, was found to be in the building at the same time that President Martin was there, had quite a lengthy informal conference on college matters in general. It was learned that no official list grading of colleges has yet been published, one having been started and tentatively published, but held up for some unknown reason by former President Taft. Both Dr. Claxton and Dr. Babcock spoke very highly of Davidson, and showed clearly the esteem in which the College is held in the higher educational circles. President Martin left this conference well satisfied with the work of Davidson and reassured that progress is being made along sane lines. After leaving Washington, President Martin spent some time in New York and Princeton before returning to Davidson.

ALUMNI NOTES.

J.D. Veal, of the Class of '16, died on the 16th of March, after a short illness of only three days. He was engaged in business at his home in Royston, Ga., at the time of his death.

In the Medical Department of the John Hopkins there are seventeen men from North Carolina institutions, and of this number, eight are Davidson men. Only five colleges in the United States have a larger number there than Davidson.

W. S. Golden ('13) has been made President of his class in Union Seminary. This is good, but not surprising news as it is in the line of the excellent record made by Mr. Golden while at Davidson. He was a member of the Debating Team of 1913-14 and President of the Y. M. C. A.

"Dusty" Sherrill ('12) was in Davidson last Thursday.

The English Press hails President Wilson as "the greatest statesman of the age." This announcement is following his recent speech before Congress. Perhaps it is well to remember that the first training received by President Wilson in the development of his wonderful oratorical ability was when he took such an active part in the work of the Eumenean Literary Society here at Davidson.

OTHER COLLEGES.

UNIVERSITY OF N.C.

The University of North Carolina will have as commencement speakers Hon. W. C. Redfield, United States Secretary of Commerce; Dr. E. Hill, of Chicago; Dr. W. F. Brown, a teacher in Vanderbilt University Theology School, and Judge Van Wyck, of New York.

TRINITY.

The third Intercollegiate Debate between Trinity and the University of South Carolina was won by Trinity with a unanimous decision of the three judges. The question was: "Resolved, That the United States should maintain a position as one of the three leading nations of the world." Trinity, on the affirmative, was represented by G. Sexton, Jr., H. E. Myers, and B. W. Barnard. The negative was defended for South Carolina by I. A. Talbot, J. S. Dudley, and M. A. Wright.

DARTMOUTH.

The school authorities of Dartmouth have been presented with $100,000 for the purpose of building a theater.

STEREOPTICON LECTURE THURSDAY NIGHT.

New Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Has Been Appointed—Other Association Notes.

On Thursday night the regular Y. M. C. A. meeting will be held in Shearer Hall. Mr. E. G. Wilson, State Y. M. C. A. Secretary, will present his interesting and instructive stereopticon views of the Blue Ridge Y. M. C. A. Conference. Mr. Wilson is a very earnest, forceful speaker, and comes fairly bubbling over with enthusiasm. Surely a treat is in store for all the students, and they will do well to take advantage of the opportunity of hearing him.

Dr. Vines, of Charlotte, addressed the Y. M. C. A. March 29, choosing as his subject, "Habit." Dr. Vines divided his discussion into three divisions—The Power of Habit, The Permanence of Habit, and the Possibilities of Habit, treating each phase in an intensely interesting way. Few men enjoyed such a wealth of illustrations so illuminating and so applicable to the point in hand.

A notable improvement has been made this year in the method of selecting Y. M. C. A. officers for the coming year. Heretofore the new officers have been elected at the last meeting of the year, but this...The officers for next year were elected last February. This early election has enabled the new president to attend the Y. M. C. A. Conference at Greenville, S. C., and to appoint his cabinet, and to lay plans for next year’s work. The new President is F. Price; Vice President, C. M. Currie; Treasurer, Roy Perry; Secretary, E. M. Currie. The President has appointed the following cabinet: Chairman Mission Study Department, Alfred Scarborough; Chairman Bible Study Department, Norman Johnson; Chairman Devotional Committee, W. A. McIlwaine; Chairman Membership Committee, J. C. Harper; Chairman Neighborhood and Personal Work Committee, C. M. Cabs; Chairman Publication Committee, D. Patrick; Chairman Freshman Reception Committee, Lex Klutz; Chairman Lyceum Committee, J. E. Carter. Meetings of the new Cabinet are already being held for the purpose of planning for next year’s work. Because of the earlier organization, each officer is hoping to do better work next year, and the outlook is bright indeed.

COMMENCEMENT GERMAN PLANNED. Held In Selwyn Hotel.

Following the custom of previous years, plans are being discussed for the annual German to be held in Charlotte at the Selwyn Hotel on the evening of the 20th of May. Although this is one of the biggest events of the season, a recent call meeting of the German Club was only slightly attended. However, preliminary matters were discussed and it was decided to place the scheme before the student body. Consequently, a meeting was called after chapel last Tuesday morning. Here the attention of the students was called to the fact that the 20th of May will be a big day in Charlotte, thus giving a favorable opportunity to make this one of the best dances ever held, since everyone should want to remain for that day anyhow. A committee on arrangements was appointed, and a business manager elected. These men will soon be around to collect the necessary guarantee which will be needed before the hall can be secured and before further preparations can proceed. If everybody will sign up, we can make this one of the biggest and best dances ever pulled off by a Davidson student body.

John D. Smith is in the Infirmary with a severe case of mumps and suffering all the tortures of that pleasant experience. Never have the 

While in Charlotte VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP The best work by Experienced Barbers

CHARLOTTE HARDWARE CO. 30 EAST TRADE STREET SPORTING GOODS and HARDWARE of every description

“At The Sign of The Big Key”

EAT AT FRAZIER'S CAFE EAST TRADE ST.

SPECIAL WHILE THEY LAST Durham Duplex Razor And large stick of SHAVING SOAP for 35 cts. Bowen’s Drug Store CHARLOTTE, N. C. Phones 203 & 459

“AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

M. H. GOODRUM DAVIDSON, N. C. Dealers in GENERAL MERCHANDISE FERTILIZER and HARDWARE

Fellows-- While in Charlotte go to Ed. Mellon Co. Gents’ Furnishings Selling agents for McCormick Harvesting Machines, and International Harvester Co.'s Line of Farming Implements of all Kinds

You will find our stock of Dry Goods, Groceries and Shoes Complete at all times. Represented by PAYNE & CARSON Hand in our tickets with each purchase We are in the market for cotton all the time and will always pay you the highest market price.

GENTLEMEN! for your TONSORIAL WORK Stop at First Door Below Postoffice Electric fan to keep you cool while waiting RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop.

R. J. SHELTON Livery, Feed and Sale Stables Phone No. 74-L DAVIDSON, N.C.