The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Strong Addresses by Former President
Senior Speaking Exercises Begin Friday,
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 25, 1914.

Interesting Town News of the Week

Dr. H. L. Smith Occupies Pulpit
Host of Lady Visitors Will Add Social and Personal Items About Morning and Evening.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, President of Washington and Lee University, and former President of Davidson, spoke at both services in
the church Sunday. Alfred Scarborough, President of the Student Body, extended the invitation to Dr. Smith, and all the students
were much gratified when it was accepted. Although the Senior class is the only one which knew Dr. Smith as
president, the interest with which both addresses were received proved that the hold which he always had on Davidson men
did not end when he left the institution.

The subject of Dr. Smith's morning address was "The Corner Stones of Manhood." He very ably discussed this subject under
four heads. The first cornerstone of genuine manhood, which he named courage, he declared was the very foundation and backbone
of manhood. He brought out the fact that the man without courage is a slave to fear and can never
be anything but a failure in life. He said that a man could cultivate courage, and that he who lacked
courage could hope, in time, to overcome this and develop into a real and true man.

Energy or muscles of manhood was the second cornerstone that Dr. Smith named. He brought out very forcefully the difference
between industrial diligence, as something which is caused by outside pressure, and real energy, as a force within the man
which drives him to activity.

Dr. Smith's next point was that the very heart of manhood is love, declaring that it was the only thing
in life which gives back the highest kind of happiness. The fourth cornerstone of manhood of which Dr. Smith spoke
was spirituality. This he said was the crown of manhood. He interpreted spirituality as that within a man which reaches
out to God. He placed the crown of manhood above even love, saying that a man might live a life
of courage, energy, and love, yet be a complete failure in life. Because if he was not drawn to God
by this force he could never accomplish the purpose that God had in putting him into the world.

In the evening Dr. Smith's subject was the story of the Hebrew children and their refusal to worship the golden
image in the plain of Dura. He pointed out the great temptation which confronted them, a choice between a life
of ease and favor in the service of Nebuchadnezzar, with a prospect of being able to deliver their country from
its captivity, and a horrible death in the fiery furnace. It was the courage based on a sublime faith which
enabled them to stand out boldly as they did. This courage was both physical and moral. When they were cast
into the furnace the moment of their greatest sacrifice became the moment of most intimate fellowship with God. The great
lesson for us is that of faith and courage, based upon the assurance that "one with God is always a
majority."

After the services several members of the Senior class called on Dr. Smith at the home of Dr. Martin, where
he was entertained. It happened that Frank Price had found one of Dr. Smith’s old Greek notebooks dated 1877 in
the old library, and the sight of it awakened a train of memories of his days as a student here.
The striking feature of the (Continued on page 4)

Gayety to Occasion.

Indications at present are that the Senior Oratorical Exercises, which begin Friday afternoon at 3:00 p.m., and end Saturday afternoon
at 4:00 p.m., together with the receptions and entertainments which follow, will furnish a fitting climax to the gayeties of
Turkey Day, and to the termination, also on that day, of a successful football season. Judging from the number of
reservations which are being made for visiting ladies and relatives of students, the number of visitors from a distance this
year will be above the average. There are thirty-seven members of the Senior class who take part in the speaking
exercises this year. The Orchestra and Glee Club, which will furnish music for the oratorical exercises, will give an entertainment
Saturday at 8:00 p.m., in Shearer Hall.

The reception by the faculty in honor of the Seniors, which has hitherto been given on Saturday night following Senior
Speaking, will not be given this year. However, there will be no dull in the social activities. At 9:00 o'clock
Saturday evening all six fraternities will receive in honor of their visitors. On Friday evening at 5:00 o'clock, Professor and
Mrs. A. Currie will give an elaborate reception in honor of the Senior class. About one hundred young ladies are
expected to attend the exercises.

The following visitors are expected from the Old North State:

Albemarle—Miss Cordie Parker.
Asheville—Mr. Druid Wheeler.
Charlotte—Misses Beverly Alexander, Mary Stuart Alexander, Elizabeth Alexander, Aileen Butt, Evelyn Blake, Annie D. Chambers, Hilda Conyers, Mary Carson, Margaret
Cowles, Cornelia Dowd, Bessie Lee Flowe, Corinne Gibbon, Margaret Hill, Lendon, Bella Moseley, Miriam Parker, Nannie Shelton, Anne Taliaferro, Miss
Finlayson; Mrs. W. O. Nesbit, Mr. and Mrs. B. Gilchrist, Mr. Todd Misenheimer.
Concord—Misses Margaret Hendrix, Fannie Query, Jessie Willeford, Laura Cannon.
Davidson—Misses Merle Booe, Mary Parks Grey, Elizabeth Grey, Annie Henderson, Carrie Hood, Gladys Henderson, Mary Henderson, Pearl Johnson, Louise Manning,
Bonnie Shelton, Isabel Sloan, Mary Thompson, Martha Thompson, Nora Thompson, Sarah Wooten.
Durham—Miss Clara Crawford.
Fayetteville—Miss Dixon.
Gastonia—Misses Lucy Boyce, Myrtle Gray, Maud Rankin.
Greensboro—Misses Mary Ruth Angle, Cora BelleSloan, Vaughn. Mary Watson Vaughan, Lynn Richardson. Adelaide Hickory—Miss Catharine Taylor. Kenansville—Mr. M. H. Wooten.
Kinston—Miss Kathleen Wooten. Lenoir—Miss Lillian Wakefield. Lexington—Miss Louise Beeson. Matthews—Miss Mary Lipe. Monroe—Miss York Houston. Mt. Airy—Miss Janie Hadley. North
Wilkesboro—Miss Benson. Raleigh—Miss Sallie Gatling. Red Springs—Miss Carter, Margaret Dixon. Rhedive—Miss Kathryne Taylor. Rutherfordton—Miss Blanche Hull. (Continued on page 4)

Johnson, the Village People. Carver, the new Methodist pastor, arrived Tuesday and will preach Sunday.

At the recent business meeting of the Civic League, the following officers were elected: Mrs. Brady, president; Mrs. Lothry, secretary;
Mrs. Will Jerton, corresponding secretary; Miss Maud Vinson, treasurer. Committees have been appointed to begin active work in preparation for
the annual Bazaar which comes on the 8th of December. The ladies of the village for the past week have
been meeting in a series of prayer meetings for the cause of Home Missions.

Mrs. H. L. Smith and son, Norris, will make a visit here this week. Mrs. J. L. Sloan has returned,
after a visit to her daughter, Mrs. G. E. Currie, of Clarkton.

The Book Lovers’ Club met at the home of Mrs. Fulton with a large attendance. The subject was Magazines and
Their Editors, and many charming letters from well-known editors were read. Misses Callie and Bertie Christenbury spent the weekend in
Huntersville with friends and relatives.

Miss Minnie Cranford will motor up from Charlotte to spend Thanksgiving with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford.
She will be accompanied by Misses Herrick Stokes and Nell Moore, of Queens College. The Girls’ basketball team is doing
fine work under the direction of Miss Foreman. Mr. Sol Christenbury is attending court in Charlotte this week as foreman.
Mr. Wilson Cranford, who attended college last year, is in the undertaking business in Albemarle, N.C. The Davidson Graded School
second team was defeated by the Huntersville boys in a hard-fought game at Huntersville last week by a score of
6-0.

Mr. J. F. Carter has opened a garage next to Mooney’s store and is kept busy with work. Mrs. Lingle
visited Guilford College last week and gave an address, which was much enjoyed by the student body.

The petition of the student body was presented to the faculty Tuesday afternoon and granted. Christmas holidays will begin December
23. College will open January 5.

NO. 12

Last Game of Season In Charlotte Thursday Davidson and Wake Forest Will Meet In Annual Clash.

"We expect a hard game; comparative scores give Davidson the edge, but this is the year for upset dope. However,
if the team plays up to form and delivers the same driving offense shown in the third quarter of the
South Carolina game, we feel sure Davidson will close the season with a record to which every student and alumni
may point with pride." — Coach Frizell.

"On to Charlotte—Look Out Wake Forest!" This is to be the slogan for Thursday's game, when the Red and Black
Machine plays its final game of the season on Wearn Field. Reports from the Baptists for the past ten days
have been very confident. They are coming to Charlotte Thanksgiving, so they say, with "blood in the eyes" to get
revenge on Davidson for defeats of the past several years. They are going to put up a stiff fight in
an endeavor to cover up a season which has not been their best. The Baptists have improved 100 percent in
the past two weeks. Their season opened up with few old stars back, but with some excellent new men. A
team of new players, it is true, can never get to playing together at the first of the season. The
game they won over Roanoke College showed they were strengthening, for Roanoke has a usually strong team this Fall. Roanoke
held V.P.I. to 6, and V.P.I. tied N.C. and lost to Washington and Lee by one point in the U.
of S.C. game. Wake Forest outplayed the Gamecocks on straight football, gaining more ground, but lost simply because they could
not break up Carolina's famed passes. The first Wake Forest-North Carolina game ended in a 53 to 0 defeat. In
the last game against U. of N.C., Wake Forest held Carolina 12 to 7, showing that the Baptists have been
greatly strengthened. Judging this by the Davidson-Carolina game score, the Thanksgiving contest should be a hard-fought, evenly matched game. Davidson's
lineup will most probably be the same which began the U. of N.C. game. Each player will bear a number
on the back of his jersey in the following numerical order. In the backfield the numbers run as follows: No.
1, Keesler, quarterback; No. 2, McKinnon, fullback; No. 3, Walker, C.; No. 4, Black; No. 5, Laird, halfbacks; No. 6,
right end; No. 7, Walker, R., left end; No. 8, Capt. Howell, right tackle; No. 9, Anderson, left tackle; No.
10 and No. 11, Van DeVanter and Bullock; No. 12, White, center. Glore, McKay, Austin, Grey, Ansley, Sayard, Hill, Fowle,
Lawson. Wake Forest has a strong line, which showed up splendidly against North Carolina last Saturday week. At quarterback, Billings
is a fine general and runs the team with "pep." The lineup for the Thanksgiving game will be:

Davidson - Position - Wake Forest
White - G - Abernathy
Van DeVanter - RG - Lees
Olive - Bullock - LG - Stallings
Anderson - RT - Blackman
Howell (Capt.) - LT - Moore
Crayton - RE - Holding
Walker, R. - LE - Powell
Keesler - QB - Billings (Capt.)
Black or Laird - RHB - Trust
Walker, C. - LHB - Withrington
McKinnon - FB - Riddick

A shipment of Norris Candy received today by White Drug Company.
