The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 14, 1914. NO. 6

Y. M. C. A. Conference Held at Elon College
Many Students Present From Chief Colleges of the State On October 7-12, 1914, delegations from all the North Carolina colleges
and preparatory schools met at Elon College, N. C., for a conference concerning Y. M. C. A. work. Delegations were
present from the following institutions: The University, A. & M., Trinity, Wake Forest, Guilford, Elon, Catawba, Davidson, Winterville, Bowie's Creek,
Whitsett, and Mt. Pleasant. Davidson was represented by the following men: W. G. Somerville, C. F. Rankin, P. B. Price,
M. A. Boggs, J. G. Patton, Jr., W. C. Copeland, D. M. McGeachy, P. D. Patrick, and W. A. Dumas.

Throughout the conference, the first hour was given to the study of Weatherford’s book, “Introducing Men to Christ.” The rest
of the morning was given to the discussion of various phases of Y. M. C. A. work. The first hour
of the afternoon session was devoted to a general method class. Dr. Horne’s “Leadership of Bible Study” was used as
a text. The topic was made very interesting by Dr. W. A. Harper, President of Elon College. The remainder of
the session was devoted to the comparison of methods in the North Carolina colleges. At night, an address was given
bearing on the theme of the day. The meetings were presided over by Mr. E. G. Wilson, State Secretary.

The conference opened Wednesday evening with an address by President Poteat, of Wake Forest, on “Modern Day Heroism.” The subject
was one which is of vital interest to college men, and in the development of it, Dr. Poteat upheld his
reputation as a speaker. Thursday, the discussion was on the general theme of “Bible Study.” It was led by Mr.
E. G. Wilson, Mr. G. C. Huntington, Secretary for the Carolinas, Mr. Brockman, General Secretary at the University of Virginia,
and Dr. W. A. Harper. Dr. W. P. Lawrence, Dean of Men at Elon, gave an interesting address on “The
Bible and Literature.” At the evening session, Dr. Thos. Amick, Professor of Mathematics at Elon, spoke on “The Bible in
Modern Life.”

Friday, the general theme was “Missions.” The leaders were Mr. Frank Graham, General Secretary at the University of North Carolina,
Mr. Chas. G. Hounshell, Traveling Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, and Mr. Brockman. Dr. J. O. Atkinson, pastor of
the Elon College church, talked on “The Biblical Department and College Bible Study.” At the evening service, Rev. C. G.
Hounshell made a telling appeal for volunteers to the foreign field. It was followed by a meeting of the Volunteer
Band, in which three men declared their intention of devoting their lives to service in foreign fields.

The theme on Saturday was “Social Service.” This was “Weatherford Day.” Dr. Weatherford needs no introduction to the men at
Davidson. He took up the different phases and methods of social problems and stressed the negro life in the South.
He made a strong appeal for our work at the Blue Ridge Summer School. At the evening service, Dr. Weatherford
told of the condition and needs of the Southern negro. His talk was a revelation.

Sunday’s topic was “Evangelism.” The college courteously suspended Sun- (Continued on page 4)

Book-Lovers’ Club Holds Interesting Meeting
With the return of Mrs. A. M. Young, the president, and of Mrs. F. W. Lingle, who have been away
for the summer, interest was renewed in the Book Lovers’ Club, which held its third meeting of the year at
the home of the vice president last week. The line of study for the year is “Modern Thought in Literature
and Art,” and the topic of the last meeting was “The Best Sellers,” the discussion centering around “Diana at the
Green Van,” “When Thoughts Will Soar,” “Devil’s Garden,” and “When Ghost Meets Ghost.”

Marshals Elected by Literary Societies
The regular meeting of both literary societies Monday morning was taken up with the election of marshals. In both societies,
many men were nominated for positions as assistant marshals, but a precedent was broken in the election of chief marshal,
who comes from the Eu. society this year, in that only one man, B. W. Price, was nominated. Mr. Price
was nominated by J. P. Williams, who gave three qualifications for a chief marshal: that he should be a good
ladies’ man, have a commanding personality, and have executive ability, and showed how these qualifications were embodied in Mr. Price.
This nomination was seconded by L. K. Hobson, and there being no other nominees for the office, Mr. Price was
elected by acclamation.

Davidson Defeats Statesville High School Eleven
Coached only by themselves, but with a knowledge of football imbibed through living all their lives in a college town,
the Davidson High School boys met Frank Brady's coached High School team at Statesville last Saturday and defeated them by
a score of 18 to 6. Statesville’s team looked husky and formidable, but a few minutes of play showed the
superiority of the Davidson “Rabbits.” A line buck and a 30-yard end run by Hutie Brown, after the Statesville boys
had been held for downs, brought the first touchdown. Sam Brady missed goal by two inches. The next two touchdowns
came in the second quarter, 10 and 20-yard gains being made every time. Brady never failed to make a heavy
gain through the line, while Hutie and Douglass Brown shot around ends. “Chick” Cathey caught three good passes, one being
for a touchdown. The last touchdown was made by Cathey. In the second half, the Statesville players, while on the
defensive mostly, braced up and held two or three times with the ball on their 3-yard line. Once they got
hold of the ball, and pulling big, beefy Turner out of the line and into the backfield, shoved him down
the field for a score. He was the only real ground gainer for Statesville, though Bristol, at quarter, was fast
and heady. Pat Robson, a coming Keesler, ran the team in fine shape. Cathey and “Bobby” Alexander were fast and
ever on the job at end. In the line, Foster at center, Carl Cathey and Pratt at guard, and George
Robson and Toller at tackles, all played well. The backfield’s fine work has already been mentioned. Capt. Douglass Brown hopes
to arrange a game with the college, and the “Rabbits” should give the sub-subs a lively scrap.

TOWN ITEMS
Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Mitchell, of Asheville, have been visiting their son for the past few days, who received an
injury on the athletic field last Saturday.¢ Among the Charlotte visitors who motored up for the Newberry game were Misses
Ella Mosely, Annie Vahaferro, Aleen Burt, Abagail Alexander, and Elizabeth Alexander, Esther Springs, and Agnes Blanding; Messrs. McAlister Carson, E.
Q. Pharr, Harvey Howell, Berriam Graham, Eli Springs, and Geo. Howell.

Mr. F. W. Wakefield, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Sunday.

Mrs. C. A. Monroe, of Hickory, N. C., is visiting Mrs. J. M. Douglas for the week.

Nominations being in order for assistant marshals, W. G. Morrison was nominated by W. M. McIlwaine, who enumerated his qualifications
as a ladies’ man, one used to deporting himself in public, and a good worker in society. This nomination was
seconded by W. E. Williams. Lex Klattz was next nominated by G. W. Gignilliat, J. F. Faw seconding the nomination.
B. W. Price nominated F. E. Smith, speaking of him as a South Carolina gentleman. W. M. Shaw was next
nominated by M. J. Shirley, the nomination being seconded by M. G. Boswell. W. Y. Savad next nominated Roy Perry,
L. W. Sane seconding the nomination. Earl Rowland nominated W. M. McIlwaine, C. M. Gibbs seconding the nomination and adding
a few more words of recommendation to the society in view of Mr. McIlwaine’s work in the society. C. Patton
was nominated by Roy Perry, W. M. Shaw seconding the nomination. J. P. Withams then nominated L. A. Allen in
words of high commendation, D. P. McReaver seconding the nomination. Messrs. McIlwaine, Morrison, Allen, and Perry were elected by the
first ballot and adjourned to Colonel Seefield’s, whither Mr. Price had already preceded them.

The society then went into the election of officers for the second term. Messrs. Alfred Scarborough, W. M. Shaw, C.
M. Gibbs, and Lex Klatt were nominated for president, but at his request Mr. Shaw's name was withdrawn. Mr. Scarborough
was elected on the first ballot and made a short speech in which he expressed his desire to serve the
society to the best of his ability. Messrs. B. L. South, W. G. Morrison, L. A. Allen, J. P. Witham,
and J. G. Patton were nominated for vice-president, Mr. Williams being elected over Mr. Smith on the second ballot. B.
F. Hagood, D. P. McBrayer, R. W. McKay, and D. W. Lane were nominated for secretary. Mr. McKay's name was
withdrawn at his request, however, Mr. Hagood was elected by a majority on the first ballot. F. W. Price and
W. E. Williams were nominated for reviewer, Mr. Price being elected.

In the Philanthropic society, U. S. Alexander nominated F. L. Harkey for the position of marshal as a ladies’ man
and a conscientious worker. C. H. Rowan seconded this nomination. W. D. Sparrow was next nominated by J. U. Carter,
who refused to eulogize him on the ground that he was not dead. This nomination was seconded by W. C.
Rourke. R. V. Finley was then nominated by N. P. Farrior as a man who always did his duty, H.
W. Ormand seconding the nomination.

(Continued on page 4)

Newberry 22 to 7
Newberry Fights Hard But Is Outplayed in Last Half

On last Saturday Davidson defeated Newberry College in the second half. Reports sent out from Newberry previous to the day
of the game had said that they were coming up to take the Presbyterian's “scalp” back with them. Indeed, it
was a team that had lots of “pep,” and it was also a team of fine material. Just probably their
average weight would have overbalanced that of Davidson. There were several players in the Newberry team who will compare with
any who have played against Davidson in years. One of these was Capt. McLean, who two seasons ago played with
Brown University in Connecticut, his home being in Ohio. The other star was Ashbault, who weighs about 200, with every
fiber muscle, and full of nerve. He was in every play, and was a tower of strength to the team.
This pair of Newberry’s team played a class of ball that will stand out in any contest.

In the first half, the “Red and Black Machine” was not oiled up, or probably a spark plug or cog
wheel was loose. It was not until the second half that things began to work, and then they outclassed Newberry
in both offensive and defensive work. The inability to get started in the first half was due to three things.
First, it was most probably a reaction from the brilliant game played against Clemson the previous Saturday; second, several of
the regular line-up were out of the game; and third, Newberry's strength was a tremendous surprise. In the first quarter,
Newberry’s husky team started off with a big rush as Clemson had done. The “Bleasites” had several strong, fast backs
who skirted the ends and ploughed the line for good gains in the first few minutes of play. Near the
end of the first quarter, Swanton, Newberry's big left halfback, after a beautiful dash for 25 yards, crossed for the
first time this season Davidson's goal line. Goal was kicked, registering 7 points for the visitors. From that time to
the end of the first half, the ball seesawed, being near the middle of the field most of the time.
Newberry in the second quarter worked successfully several forward passes and line bucks.

The tables turned in the second half, when Davidson’s fighting spirit revived. McKinnon, who had previously been on the line
with a slight injury, went in, and on the next play intercepted a forward pass and sped for 50 yards
for a touchdown, and kicked goal. After this, the line strengthened, and time after time threw Newberry for a loss
while Walker, Laird, Black, and McKinnon were making consistent gains. With the ball on the 40-yard line, McKinnon made a
beautiful place kick. Soon after, Walker and Laird each made a touchdown, but no goals were kicked. For Davidson, the
team was now coming into perfect order, and showed their superiority over Newberry on every play. The bright and shining
stars for Newberry were Capt. McLean, Ashbault, Swanton, and Baker. For Davidson, especially in the second half, Walker, Keesler, McKinnon,
Laird, and Capt. Howell played a fine game. The line-up was as follows:

(Continued on page 4)

See W. C. Rourke, 67 Chambers, Before You Buy Your Pennants
