2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams

Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick

Business Manager
W. G. Somerville

Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
R. Faw
I. W. Kroutz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton
I. H. Carson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

THE WAR AND THE COLLEGE.

On the whole, the war has not affected the opening attendance in Southern Colleges nearly as much as was expected.
A few schools report losses and a smaller Freshman class due to tight financial conditions, but the majority have begun
the year’s work with an enrollment of students equal to, if not larger, than that of last year. The University
of North Carolina is crowded with over nine hundred students. Wake Forest has 450, of which number 150 are new
men. Trinity begins with fine prospects. Davidson, though with a few less than she had at the corresponding date last
year, has nothing to be ashamed of in the line quality and material of the new class. The Northern colleges
are just opening, but general indications are that the war will not lower to any great extent the enrollment, except
perhaps in some of the technical schools. The American people are facing the new crisis with equanimity, and it is
good to see the work of the universities and colleges move forward unhaltingly in the face of it.

FOOTBALL.

Davidson's football games this Fall are being talked and fought over many times before they will be played. Everyone has
a prophecy, or at least a secret opinion, as to the outcome of each one. The men who watch the
scrimmaging carefully every day from the sidelines are unanimous in the conviction that Davidson will have a very strong team.
It will be strong because every man of the squad of fifty is being given a chance, and a strong
reserve is being built up. But while our hopes rise and our confidence deepens as the outcome of the battles
this fall, we must never let the unconquerable fighting spirit, on gridiron and sideline, die down. We may win every
game, and we hope to, or we may lose all, which we do not expect to, but win or lose,
the new Davidson spirit that will date from this year must never ebb. Every new man should be learning all
the Davidson yells and songs immediately, for he will be expected to do a tremendous part in backing the team
up to victory. In another part of this issue will be found a stirring appeal from a loyal alumnus in
regard to the Clemson game. Every Davidson man will read it with pride and determination.

KNOCKERS.

You never saw a very rich man laugh at a poor man. You never saw an athlete sneer at a
cripple. You never saw a deep and true student scoff at an illiterate. And you never will. A man seldom
demeans those below him in station, wealth, talents, and opportunities. The man who habitually criticizes and knocks—knocks those who are
better than he is, and the knocker knows it. Jealousy is the root of all knocking, and the man who
indulges in continual fault-finding will search himself in vain for any other motive. If such a man will substitute

The DAVIDSONIAN. September 23, 1914

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

Last Saturday night the second moving pictures of the season were shown in Shearer Hall. These pictures are exhibited under
the auspices of Quips and Cranks and the Athletic Association, the proceeds going to these organizations. The pictures will be
better than those shown here last year, as is evidenced by those already shown. Good order is always kept and
it is to be hoped that the town as well as the student body will take full advantage of this
opportunity for wholesome amusement.

FELLOWS—You can get a classy raincoat at Armour Bros. & Thompson's for $3.50.For his petty self-centeredness and earnest ambition to
reach the level of those whom he looks down upon, he will become of little value to the world. It
is so everywhere. Evil sneers at goodness, ignorance at education, error at truth, impurity at purity, poverty at wealth, laziness
at industry. And men forget that the helpful criticism on this earth is that which lifts up, not that which
knocks down.

WANTED—Every Student in College to read the National Woolen Mills Adv., America’s largest tailors.

SAMPLE COPIES—The Business Managers will be glad to receive the names of any alumni or friends of the college to
whom sample copies of “The Davidsonian” may be sent. You will do a favor by handing in any such names
in the box at the office.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULES

The stand the Literary Societies take this year depends upon the individual work done at each meeting by the members.
The following are scheduled to come off:

Debate, Saturday, Sept. 26.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Affirmative:
- Bate Boggs, M.A.
- Boswell Aikin
- Boggs, E.
- Brown, A.

Negative:
- Mooney
- Jumas
- Bellingrath

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
- Payne
- Copeland
- Craig, W.G.
- Neal
- Morrison
- Manno
- Crawford, I.A.
- McIntyre

Oration or Declamation, Monday, Sept. 28.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
- Edgerton
- Carroll
- Chambliss
- Gibbs
- Craig, A.R.
- Importe

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
- Carter
- Johnston, V.P.
- Cumming
- Nesbit
- Wooten
- Thames
- Stough
- McDonald, G.
- Clark

VISITORS OF THE PAST WEEK

During the past week, Davidson has been honored with several visits from the alumni. C.R. (“Ada”) Wilcox stopped over for
a few days on his way to enter Union Theological Seminary at Richmond. Hal Boswell (’12) was on the Hill
last week. He also is on his way to the Seminary at Richmond. P.A.W. DuBose, who stopped over on his
way from St. Louis, left yesterday for Columbia, where he will enter Columbia Theological Seminary. Last Saturday evening, L.H. Wilkinson
and F.L. Blythe, with a few friends, motored up from Charlotte to see the football practice. W.A. Nicholson (’12) was
a visitor last week. He will teach at Maxton, N.C., this year. J.W. Gibbon, with several of his family and
some friends, came up Friday evening to see the football squad getting into shape. L.C.L. M. Wertz paid the College
a visit a few days ago. He is going to the University of South Carolina this year. Dr. H.W. McCoy,
an old Davidson man, was on the Hill last week. He is a member of the Executive Board of the
Alumni Athletic Association. Murphy Currie stopped over a day or two on his way home from Chattanooga, Tenn., last week.
He will not be in college this fall. Roy Smith (’10) came through on his way to Princeton. Lewis McDuffie
stopped over on his way to accept a position with the Hardaway Construction Company, at Catawba, N.C. R.W. Osborne and
J.B. Duffie were also visitors last week.

Perfect Fit Guaranteed

Second Display of Fall Styles
Monday, Sept. 21
Room 12, North Wing
Occupied by Messrs. Witt and Edgerton
Chambers Building
College Styles a Specialty
National Woolen Mills
ALBERT F. McNEILL, Representative
