4 Newberry Coming to Get CLE Revenge Oct. 10. Newberry Has Good Prospects For a Strong Team. On this Saturday, October 10, Newberry College will play here “on the Hill.” Last Fall they put up a game, plucky, gritty fight against the “Red and Black Machine.” Of over half a dozen games played last season, the game to Davidson was the only one lost. With practically every one of last year's Varsity men back, and with about a dozen strong new men, they will have a good, strong team. Parrish, a former star football player, is coaching Newberry, and for several weeks has been getting his team in preparation for Davidson on October 10. In the write-up to several dailies, the report says: — “Newberry is looking forward to their Davidson game with a view and determination to getting revenge for last season's defeat. Much interest and lots of pep is being manifested in daily football scrimmages here.” Newberry College has a student body that will compare in numbers favorably with Davidson. The game Saturday, judging from advanced “dope,” should be an interesting and good game. Newberry teams always have the “rep” of being game and hard fighters. Newberry defeated the strong Porter's Military Academy of Charleston last Saturday 20 to 0, and Porter's always puts out a strong team.

Newberry's line up: Among the new men showing up well are: Ashbaugh, end; Swanton, half-back; V. Wessinger, guard; Morgan, half-back; H. Wessinger, center; Borings, guard; Koon, half-back. The old men back are: T. Derrick, Renken and S. Baker, ends; Shealy, guard; “Pig” Derrick and Deaton, tackles; Crotwell, center; Nichols, R. Baker, Paschall, Shiten and Bodie, backs; “Dutch” McLain, captain, will be in his old position at center.

COMING OPPONENTS RESULTS SATURDAY. Wofford held the fast, strong team from Riverside Military Academy scoreless. Riverside has an unusually good team. U. of N.C. 0; Va. Meds, 0. Citadel, 0, U. of Ga. 10. U. of S.C. 0, Ga. Tech, 20. Wake Forest, 0, A. & M. 53.

WEARERS OF “THE D.” Last night the Wearers of the "D" met in their room under “Eu” hall. Many matters of interest were discussed. During the remainder of this year, certain magazines, periodicals and daily newspapers will be kept on the table in this room, and any member can go in at any time. The room since last Spring has been improved considerably in looks. On the walls of this room hang the pictures of various football, baseball and track teams for the past decade. A scrap-book in which an account of every game for the past year or so, and other athletic “dope” on teams, kodak pictures, etc., is kept in this room. The old members at the meeting were: Howell, Anderson, Gilchrist, Johnson, Crayton, Kluttz, McKinnon, Glover, Stough, Brown, Somerville, Walker and Coach Fetzer.

CRAWFORD WINS SINGLES. In the semi-finals in singles, Norman Johnson defeated Tom Finley: score, 6-4, 6-3, 6-1; Dave Crawford defeated L. Reese by default. In the finals, the two members of the Varsity Doubles team battled for the Singles Tennis Championship. In a hard-fought match, Crawford defeated Johnson, 8-6, 6-0, 6-4, winning the Singles championship. The first set was probably the hardest fought and most exciting match seen on the Hill. Johnson weakened perceptibly after the first set, and Crawford played his usual steady game, so fatal to his opponents.

The DAVIDSONIAN. October 7, 1914

DAVIDSON POWERLESS BEFORE RED AND BLACKS. (Concluded from page 1) White, Howell, Laird and Anderson all played great ball, but every man on the team fought hard. The team worked together like an oiled machine, and showed splendid early season form. For Clemson, Captain Schilliter, Major, James and Webb played well. Davidson was penalized more than Clemson, but during the fray gained almost twice as much ground, 195 yards to the opponents’ 115. The Tigers had 22 yards on Davidson in the first half, but Davidson's total of 124 yards in the last half to Clemson's 30, tells the tale of the powerful onslaught at the end, of the Red and Blacks, against “the best team that Clemson has had in six years.” The game was a credit to the college, to the coaches, and to the fine team itself, and every Davidsonian, far and near, not over-confidently, but in very truth proud of it. The line-up follows:

Davidson. Position. Clemson.
White .. .. .. .. .. Cox Center
Gray .. .. .. .. .. Bristol Right guard
Vandevanter .. .. .. .. RandleLeft Guard Anderson .. . . Schilliter (c)  
Right Tackle Howell (c) . . McGill  
Left Tackle Laird .. . Stribbling  
Right End Austin .. Matthews  
Left End Keesler .. Leos  
McMillan Quarter Walker .. Leone  
Major Right Half Black .. Lobe  
James Left Half McKinnon .. Lee  
Webb Full Substitutes: Clemson, Suggs for Randle, Littlejohn for Bristol, Randle for Suggs, Bristol for Littlejohn, Barnette for Matthews, Carson for Stribbling, Stribling for Carson, McConnell for McMillan, Gee for Webb, Webb for Gee, Harris for Major, Major for Harris. Davidson, McKay for Laird, Laird for McKay, Bullock for Laird, Lawson for Keesler, Keesler for Lawson, Summerville for Black. Referee, Sampson (W. & J.) Umpire, Henderson. Head Lineman, Pedan. Davidson, Linesmen, Crayton (Davidson), Lee (Clemson). Timers, Douglas (Davidson), Hunter (Clemson). Time of quarters, 10; 10; 10; 10.

PEDEN TO ASSIST.  
“Jack” Peden will assist Coach Fetzer and Harris with the football squad for several weeks. Peden is a valuable man and will be a big addition to the present strong staff. He played at Davidson several years, and last year made his letter on Pennsylvania’s star team. We are glad to have him here.

TRACK PROSPECTS GOOD.  
Coach Fetzer called a meeting of the track men and a goodly number responded to the first call. Davidson should put out a good team this year. Gilchrist can be counted on as usual for 100 and 220-yard dashes, also low hurdles; “Preacher” Morrison and Kluttz are also on the job for these two entries; Ives, a new man, is fast, and should make a valuable man. Johnson, N., the record-breaker jumper, will do his share. Perry is hurdling even better than last year. “Slim” Glover, and Anderson, H., will toss the weight. Kluttz also runs 440 and broad jumps. There are many others who will make valuable men for this team, and Coach Fetzer, who has much experience in track coaching, wants every available man who is not playing football to come out at once.

Mr. N. A. Watt, of Thomasville, Ga., is to be married to Miss Mary Lindsay, October 15. Mr. Arthur Laird, brother of J. P. Laird, was on the Hill last Saturday.

While in Charlotte VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP  
The best work by Experienced Barbers  
EAST TRADE ST.

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE  
“AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)  
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00  
COMMERCIAL BANKING  
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods  
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT  
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits  
TIME CERTIFICATES  
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

EAT AT SLOAN’S  
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS  
PASTRIES & CANDIES  
He Will Treat You Right.  
Open Every Day Till 11 P.M.

See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte  
“Watch the Light”

White Drug Co.  
PRESCRIPTIONS  
Carefully compounded by registered Pharmacists  
You are cordially invited to inspect our line of DRUGS  
Satisfied customers are our best advertisement

Not “How Much but How Good” is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The old saying that “a man is judged by the candy he gives” holds good today same as always. Buy the best—don’t take the “just as good” kind. Nothing quite equals famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively exclusive class to themselves. Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam does the rest.

Jetton Drug Co.

Quality and Satisfaction Combined makes clear the reason why SPALDING’S are outfitters to champions, whose implements must be invariably right. The Spalding Trade-Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. Write for free illustrated catalogue.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.  
74 N. Broad St.  
ATLANTA, GA.

R. J. SHELTON  
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables  
Phone No. 74-L  
DAVIDSON, N. C.