2 THE LITERARY SOCIETIES.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

It has become commonplace to urge the Literary Societies to earnest work at the beginning of the year, but no less important. The possibilities in both the societies this year for development in debating and speaking, and for the doing of effective work are greater than ever. About sixty new men were admitted into the two societies last Saturday night, and among them are men of talent and ability whom many of the old members will have to struggle hard to excel. No man will have any excuse for not doing his part to make this a star year. Lowell has it in a sentence: “No man is born into the world whose work is not born with him; there is always work and tools to work withal for those who will.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN STAFF:
W. W. Price Editor-in-Chief
J. V. Williams Assistant Editor
P. O. Patrick Business Manager
W. G. Somerville Assistant Manager
Norman Johnson
J. W. Faw
I. W. Kluttz
C. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton
J. H. Carson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

THOSE DAVIDSON ALUMNI.

From June 12-22 past, the Davidson delegation, composed of Messrs. Price, Scarborough, Young, Ratchford, Patrick, and Williams, gathered at Blue Ridge, N. C., to attend the “Southern Students’ Y. M. C. A. Conference.” There, in the heart of the Blue Ridge mountains, were assembled 300 Southern students, men from every college in the South, to discuss...

The following little incident came to the Davidsonian office a few days ago: A Davidson student was standing this summer in a public place, when two old Davidson men passed by. They were rushing to the opposite edge of the crowd where they had spied another alumnus. He had not been an intimate friend of theirs on the Hill; he may perhaps have had many a well-remembered peculiarity, but they grasped his hand and shook it heartily and sincerely for the sake of the days gone by together at Davidson. And the wonderful tie which binds all Davidson men was drawn a little tighter.

Professor Curry paid an eloquent tribute to Davidson's alumni when he said, the night of the Freshman Reception, that no man who stayed at Davidson for four years ever wanted to leave. Possibly no other college of its size in America has an army of such faithful, loyal, devoted alumni as has Davidson. They have stood behind her in every fine enterprise she has undertaken. They are giving to her now for athletics the best they have. Encompassed about now with so great a crowd of witnesses, let us work with patience to make a Davidson that our alumni will be proud to own.

DAVIDSON COMPETITION.

Before the first issue of “The Davidsonian” was printed last Spring, it was decided to fill vacancies on the staff after the first year by competition, rather than by election. At a recent meeting, the present staff decided to open three positions on the staff immediately to the Sophomores on a competitive basis. This will accomplish two things. It precludes the possibility of these positions becoming mere recognition of popularity. At the same time, it makes a position on the staff an honor worth having. The Senior editors will go out in the Spring, and from the present Sophomore class, will have to be chosen an assistant editor, manager, and editors to fill the place of the Juniors who will become next year’s Senior editors. The plan has been laid before the Sophomore class, and an interested response has already been made. The competition will continue during the next two months, after which editors will...be chosen on the merits of their work. Every man in the class has a chance, and all are urged to try for the staff. Hand in your name to the assistant editor and you will be assigned to write up various happenings or to get certain news. Wanted, editors!

Prospective colleges in the fall had been mapped out by Dr. Weatherford. The scenes of his eccentricities were in Bible Study classes, Mission study, College conferences, and speeches. The third man was soon to attend M. C. A. plans and to catch an inspiration to carry home to their respective colleges. An attractive and instructive program was planned. The mornings were given over to attendance upon Bible Study classes, which had 100 percent attendance for the entire conference. The feature of the conference was the mountain side. Here the men had the opportunity of hearing such leaders as John R. Mott, "The World's Greatest Christian Statesman," and Bishop Lambuth, the missionary fresh from the heart of Africa.

The afternoons were given to recreation, and inter-collegiate athletics brought out the college spirit more than any other feature of the conference. Davidson was right there with the "pep" and gave the University of Georgia delegation, which was stronger by far, a fine game on the diamond. In fact, Davidson was in the lead for all events, and if she had had a few more men, she would have stood a fine chance of copping the championship in baseball. Davidson carried off one well-earned "rag" when that sky-scraper team, Pim and Johnson, won the doubles championship in tennis after defeating Georgia Tech's varsity team in the finals. This pennant is now a mural decoration in the Davidson Y. M. C. A. hall (Come out to Y. M. C. A. next Thursday night and look it over). In the swimming contest, Stewart Gilchrist won several honors in fast swimming, fancy diving, etc. What part of the recreation period not taken up by organized athletics was filled with hikes and mountain climbing, especially to "High Top," which rises 6,000 feet above sea level behind R. E. Lee Hall. The Davidson spirit and "pep" was shown by its entire delegation throughout the conference, and old "Hak-a-rak" rang loud in the large dining hall at meals, when each college tried to outdo the rest in yells. Davidson had a crack-a-jack delegation this summer, but Vanderbilt, Georgia Tech, and Georgia all had larger delegations. Next summer Davidson must take the first place at Blue Ridge—in attendance, spirit, and athletics. Let's Do It!

Dr. Robert Wilson, a medical missionary from Korea, gave an interesting address at the church on Sunday evening. Miss Callie Christenbury is visiting her aunt, Mrs. W. T. Christenbury, in Atlanta. Mrs. Mary Young and Miss Sallie Paisley have returned to Davidson.

September 16, 1914

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

CUSHMAN STUDIO. Charlotte, N.C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland. 26 R.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

WANTED—To do your Kodak finishing and developing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—A Kodak, preferably postcard size. See David Hudson.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—Every student in college to read the National Woolen Mills Adv., America’s Largest Tailors.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

NOTICE—No last year’s cleaning and pressing tickets will be accepted this year. Tobe Johnson. W. G. Somerville, Mgr.

FOR FIRST-CLASS BARBER Work patronize J. W. Miller, 21 South Wing Chambers Bldg.

WANTED—Every Student in College to read the National Woolen Mills Adv., America’s largest tailors. BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

CALL AT CUSHMAN’S STUDIO for all kinds of photography.

PLACE YOUR ORDER. Don’t go anywhere until you have seen our Fall Line of Imported Woolens. Perfect Fit Guaranteed.

Second Display of Fall Styles Monday, Sept. 21 Room 12, North Wing Occupied by Messrs. Witt and Edgerton Chambers Building College Styles a Specialty.

National Woolen Mills ALBERT F. McNEILL, Representative.