The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2. — Senior Speaking Is An Unusual Success: An Appeal to the Colleges for Help Oratory and Fair Visitors Crown | American Red Cross Sends Out Thanksgiving Week-End. The present Senior class can well boast that it has had one of the most successful oratorical contests in the history of the college. Not only were the flights of Oratory satisfactory, but the social features added a gayety to the occasion which succeeded in making even the trembling Senior forget that he was scheduled to speak in the next section. A number of young ladies from Charlotte, Winston-Salem, and other towns in the State, together with a goodly number from other States, quite took the college by storm, and it will be a long time before the heart-broken Davidson student can once more turn his mind to the classics. Quite a number of the students’ relatives were also present to witness the exercises, and many old Davidson men took this occasion to return to their alma mater and see their friends. The exercises were opened at 3 o’clock on Friday afternoon in Shearer Biblical Hall. The stage had been tastefully decorated by Mr. Young and his assistants with the class colors, purple and gold. A number of ferns placed around the stage completed the decoration. After a selection by the Orchestra, during which the speakers marched on the stage, the house was led in a short prayer. On the conclusion of this prayer, Dr. A. Currie introduced the first speaker. “The One Dark Stain,” delivered by U.S. Alexander, was a brilliant denunciation of capital punishment. “In the Literature of the Future,” J. W. S. Gilchrist drew a very attractive picture of the uplifting but practical type of writing that future generations would enjoy. On Friday afternoon from 5 to 6, Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Curry delightfully entertained at their home the Senior class and its guests. The entertainment was an informal reception and everyone was welcomed heartily by Mrs. Curry and her friends. Mrs. Curry was assisted by Mrs. Curry, Senior, Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Arbuckle, Miss Mary Young and Miss Elizabeth Grey. The Seniors were accompanied by their young lady friends and a gay hour was spent during which delicious refreshments of hot chocolate, cake, fruits, and candies were served. Many candles, decorated lights, and cheerful fires contributed towards making the occasion attractive. Every Senior agrees that the afternoon was one of the most enjoyable ever spent in Davidson. The speakers on Friday night were each introduced by Dr. T. M. McConnell in a few well-chosen words. There were several very creditable speeches on this occasion. “The Thief,” by G. W. Gignilliat, was the plea of a lawyer for an eighteen-year-old thief, who is a criminal through having had no views of life other than those gained from a viewpoint and environment of crime and evil. “The Monarch Dethroned,” by A. R. Howland was a stirring plea for China. It was pictured as a country yet undeveloped, where all the youth of America could take a vital part in the work. N. Johnson, in his “Peace Heroic,” developed the theme that the victories of peace were just as heroic as those of war, and required a nobler sort of heroism than that of the battlefield. The exercises were continued at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning. Dr. Mar- (Continued on page 4) Call to Relieve Suffering. The call for help has been sent out to the colleges of America by the American Red Cross Society. This is a call for some contribution from every college man to make less the great suffering which is being caused by the European war. It is not possible for the people of this country to imagine the horrors and suffering caused by this conflict. Of these conditions, the letter which has been received, says: “The American Red Cross appeals to you for assistance in mitigating the unprecedented suffering and distress caused by the present war. Never before in history has there been such need for aid. It is impossible for the medical services of the armies involved to cope with the fearful magnitude of the work. Wounded by hundreds of thousands are scattered through cities, towns, and villages. Many are without adequate surgical care and the necessary surgical dressings. Frequently operations have to be performed without anesthetics. The lack of gauze bandages and absorbent cotton produces infection, ending often in death from gangrene or tetanus. The armies engaged are composed mainly of young men of the age of college men, and it is particularly fitting that their sufferings should make an appeal to them.” The colleges are responding freely. Yale has furnished two motor ambulances, and Princeton is to support a trained nurse as long as the war lasts. Practically every college is making arrangements to do as much as they possibly can. This will mean a sacrifice for many, and it will not be easy for any, but the cause is one which cannot be overlooked. The Peace Contest will be held here at Davidson on next Saturday, the 5th, and there could certainly be no more appropriate day than this to designate as a Day of Peace for Davidson College. On that day blank envelopes will be placed in the hands of every man in college. The envelopes will carry no name or amount, for the offering is to be a free-will offering. Boxes will be placed at convenient places on the campus, and it is requested that all contributions be dropped into these boxes promptly. At the end of the day, the envelopes will simply be counted and the number of students contributing will be estimated from the number of envelopes received. The object is not entirely to secure a large amount, as it is to have a contribution from every man. Better a two-cent stamp from everyone than ten dollars from one person. This money will be forwarded to the Red Cross Society by THE DAVIDSONIAN and any special contributions from the faculty and others in Davidson will be received by P. D. Patrick, Business Manager of the Davidsonian. One special contribution of this kind has already been received amounting to $5.00. DR. McCONNELL INVITED TO MAKE ADDRESS Dr. J. Moore McConnell has been asked to make an addressAt the annual meeting of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Society, to be held at Raleigh on December 2, he has prepared an interesting paper on “North Carolina Oratory,” which he will send to the meeting to be read if unable to go.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1914.

Interesting Town News of the Week

NO. 13

Davidson Ends Season With 7 to 6 Victory

Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

The Ladies’ Foreign Missionary Society of the Presbyterian church will meet with Mrs. Henderson, Thursday afternoon.

Mrs. T. P. Johnson, the mother of “Coach” Johnson, was a visitor at the home of Mrs. Wooten during Senior Speaking.

Mr. J. Philips and Miss Sallie Canup motored over from Salisbury and spent Sunday with Mrs. Holt Armour.

Mr. and Mrs. P. Jettan spent the weekend with Mrs. Christenbury.

A committee has been appointed to make arrangements for the annual Christmas tree entertainment which is to be held in Shearer Hall.

Mr. S. J. Christenbury, who has been on jury service in Charlotte, returned home Saturday.

The Ladies’ Missionary Society of the Methodist church will hold their next meeting with Mrs. Christenbury Thursday afternoon at 3 o'clock.

Mrs. J. L. Bell and Miss Georgia Bell have been visiting Mr. and Mrs. R. Withers. Miss Georgia Bell has been attending the Teachers’ Assembly in Charlotte.

Miss Estelle Davis was the visitor of Mrs. J. M. Potts during the Thanksgiving holidays.

Miss Sarah Wooten spent the Thanksgiving holidays at home. She had visiting her at this time Miss Marjorie Dance, from Queens College.

On account of the delay in building the stairs of the new Civic League Hall, the annual Bazaar will be delayed for about ten days. Among the things sold will be many nice articles suitable for Christmas presents.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB WIN MUCH APPLAUSE

Saturday evening the Orchestra and Glee Club gave their first concert on the Hill. A large and appreciative audience was present to enjoy their performance, and no doubt inspired the performers to give one of the best concerts that has been given by the organization for some time. Orchestra and Glee Club were alike at their best, and were heartily applauded on each number. The quartet, composed of Messrs. Fowle, Ansley, Johnston, and McGeachy, was especially good, their encore “The Memphis Blues,” bringing down the house. Fowle was called back repeatedly by louder and louder bursts of applause, and each time captivated the house. The last number on the program was a new college song, “Davidson for Aye,” written by McIlwaine, and set to the Welsh national song, “The March of the Men of Harlech.” Many expressions of commendation have been received by the organization since the concert, and according to unanimous opinion its members and officers are to be congratulated on the fine showing they made.

Baptists Check Presbyterians’ Attack Until Last Quarter.

Davidson closed an exceedingly successful football season last Thursday by scoring its final victory over Wake Forest, 7-6. With a cloudy sky and almost no wind blowing, the “Presbyterians” and the “Baptists” had an ideal day for their annual Thanksgiving battle. A large crowd of 2,000 eagerly awaited the blowing of the whistle for the beginning of the game, and when its shrill note sounded the Presbyterians were ready to defend the western goal, and the Baptists kicked to them. On the very first play it was shown that the game would indeed be a battle, and so it continued. The Baptists had all to win and nothing to lose, so they fought like demons. The Presbyterians met the attack with cool determination, but they did not show their old form until the second period. In the initial half Wake Forest scored on a series of short forward passes, but they failed to kick goal. In the second half Black ran through the Baptists for a touchdown and McKinnon kicked goal. The Wake Forest captain contended that the whistle had blown before the ball had been put in play, but the referee held up his decision and allowed the goal to be kicked, and declared that Ritch had blown his instrument after the ball was in play, the score to be seven to six in Davidson’s favor. Immediately the Wake Forest players gathered around him and protested the decision, but he stuck to it, and the Baptists left the field with six more minutes to play. At the time the game ended the Red and Black Machine was going like a streak, and many supporters think that they would undoubtedly have registered easily another touchdown. The game by quarters shows the stars and feature plays. Captain Moore of Wake Forest won the toss and elected to kick-off, Davidson receiving at the south goal. Billings kicked as wide; Anderson received and was downed in his tracks; Davidson's ball on their 35-yard line. Black and Keesler took 2 yards and 4 through the line; then Black skirted the end for 6 more. McKinnon kicked 30 yards, but the Baptists were unable to hold the ball, and White, who always follows the ball, recovered the fumble. The next play Black ran for 20 yards over tackle. At this stage, with the ball right in the shadow of the Baptists’ goal, their line held, and after two downs for small gains, a placement was tried, but A. Riddick, the fast half-back for Wake Forest, tore through and broke up the punt. C. Walker recovered. It was Davidson’s ball in the middle of the field. The ball went over to Wake Forest on downs. Witherington and Riddick each made beautiful runs for 8 yards. An attempted forward pass was intercepted by C. Walker, who ran 20 yards. After three downs, which netted 6 yards, McKinnon kicked 20 yards to Wake Forest’s 15-yard line. Several punts were then exchanged and the quarter ended with the ball in Wake Forest's possession on their 25-yard line. During the second quarter the ball was seesawed up and down the field, several punts being exchanged. Toward the last, with the ball well in Davidson’s territory, by two successful forward passes for 15 and 12 yards, the latter being received by Witherington be-

(Continued on page 4)

Roy Moose Will Be Here for All Kinds of Photography Work December 1-9