w The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M. F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief J.P. Williams.......... Assistant Editor P. D. Patrick.......... Business Manager W. G.
Somerville... Assistant Manager The DAVIDSONIAN. December 9, 1914 THE CALLED GAME The point in dispute in the Davidson-Wake Forest game
in Charlotte Thanksgiving, which caused the Wake Forest players to protest the Davidson touchdown as illegal and to leave the
field when Referee Sampson upheld Davidson's victory, has been explained in the account of the game. No one regrets more
than we of Davidson do, that the annual game between the Presbyterians and the Baptists ended thus. It was a
regrettable incident. One or two things ought to be very clear, however. In the first place, Davidson is entirely clear
in responsibility for the decision. The ball was put into play, the Davidson team played it, and when Referee Sampson
declared that the umpire’s whistle could not stop the play, Davidson welcomed the decision. But it would be extremely unfair
to say that Davidson was partial to Davidson, when he was going by the rule-book. Secondly, it seems to us
that if BACK the Advertisers who are backing WANT ADS. DO YOUR CHRISTMAS Shopping Now—Buy Socks and Ties at Rumple.
THE RECORD OF WOODROW WILSON. Davidson men are proud that their college could, with but one year's training, place in
the Presidential chair a man who has left such a worthy record behind him. The record he left here is
no less worthy than that of later years. The old college records in the Library thus. It was a regrettable
incident. One or two things ought to be very clear, however. In the first place, Davidson is entirely clear in
responsibility for the decision. The ball was put into play, the Davidson team played it, and when Referee Sampson declared
that the umpire’s whistle could not stop the play, Davidson welcomed the decision. But it would be extremely unfair to
say that Davidson was partial to Davidson, when he was going by the rule-book. Secondly, it seems to us that
if WANTED—To do your Kodak developing. RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two
lines. Norman Johnson J. H. Carson J. G. Patton I. W. Kluttz G. W. Gignilliat W. A. McIlwaine Reporters' Staff:
Y. D. Sparrow W. H. Neal Latta Law K. H. Hamilton T. J. Mitchell R. E. Ratchford P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be
signed. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C. Subscription, $1 Per Year EDITORIAL. Editors are
mortal, too, and The Davidsonian Staff is unable to escape the “fiery trial” that begins the end of this week.
Owing to Fall Examinations, therefore, The Davidsonian will not be issued next week. The next issue will appear the second
week after the reopening of college in January. THANKSGIVING. Dr. Richards’ encouraging and cheerful message in his sermon last Sunday
was indeed timely and helpful. When the rain clouds have lowered for ten days, and financial and business clouds for
a much longer time, it is easy for a plague of “the blues” to spread. When a man who resists
the infection and laughs though his pockets be empty, does as much good as the sun breaking through the mist
after a gray week. We are not riddled with bullets every time we try to get some food, as thousands
of the Belgians are, and we have a happy Christmas in store, a joy that few of Europe's young men
will know this winter. Let us be thankful and carry back to the homes that may be a bit discouraged
a glad, buoyant spirit that will make our holidays a blessing, a Thanksliving as well as Thanksgiving. OUR FACULTY. We
wish to thank the Faculty for extending our Christmas holidays to the 5th of January. It seems perhaps a little
thing to them, but it is a big thing to the man who has been fast in the traces for
three months, and to whom home is still everything in the world. We have a Faculty unexcelled, we believe, in
the State, in scholarship and ability. It is unexcelled, too, in its consideration of student interests and desires. It lends
its heartiest support to every worthy college activity. Rightly then does it demand a rigid scholastic standard. The croaking critic
who is continually finding that things do not suit him, and that he does not suit things, is apt to
include the Faculty. Let us stand behind our Faculty as they stand behind us, and give them our ardent aid
in all their plans for the betterment and upbuilding of Davidson. A contemporary suggests that if the European soldiers are
in need of horses, they might make use of some of the ponies that browse in numerous numbers on the
book-shelves of the American college student. A merry, merrier, and merriest Christmas to all.the Wake Forest players intended to protest
the game and leave the field. They should have done it before the goal was kicked for Davidson by McKinnon.
It was only when the score stood 7-6 against them that they refused to play on. Lastly, an adverse decision
of the umpire seems to us no valid excuse for quitting a game, even if the hope of victory had
been suddenly shattered. Baseball games would be stopped every day in the summer if a team quit every time the
umpire decided against it. At the rate the Davidson team was going in the last quarter, there are many who
firmly believe that Davidson would have registered another touchdown, anyway. But this, of course, we cannot say for certain. We
merely wish to lay the above facts before the readers of The Davidsonian.

DAVIDSON RESPONDS TO CALL FOR AID.

In response to the call for aid sent out by the American Red Cross Society to the colleges in the
United States, for the war sufferers in Europe, Davidson students were given an opportunity last Saturday to give to this
cause. Boxes were placed on the bulletin boards of all the dormitories and each student was asked to contribute something.
To date, $30.66 has been received, and the number of contributors has been about a hundred. The contribution will be
sent to the American Red Cross Society the last of this week by Mr. Patrick, Business Manager of The Davidsonian.
If anyone has failed to contribute and wishes to do so, hand your contribution to one of the following men:
Patrick, Sparrow, Rowland, C. Walker, Carriker, or Sommerville. It is hoped that each student will give something, no matter how
little, to help relieve the war sufferers in Europe. The whole thing is a free-will offering and is being handled
by The Davidsonian through the Business Manager.

STANDING OF BIBLE STUDY CLASSES.

The standing in attendance of the Y. M. C. A. Bible Study classes has been posted in the Library. Much
interest is being shown in the competition for the best average attendance. Three classes still have 100 percent. The record
will be posted every Sunday.

FIFTY CENTS AFTER CHRISTMAS.

The subscription price of The Davidsonian for the Spring term will be fifty cents. Every student is urged to help
Davidson's weekly by urging the alumni whom he will see at home to subscribe for the next five months for
this price. Bring the subscription back with you and hand them to the Business Manager.

A Literary Society, christened the Columbian, has been organized at the High School, and two excellent programs have already been
rendered.

Up to show the following grades: In the Fall: Excused absence, 2; Logic and Rhetoric, 95; Greek, 87; Latin, 90;
Math, 74; Composition, 96; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average, 91.50 percent.

In the Spring (on account of sickness): Excused absences from Prayers, 44; Excused absences from Church, 3; Excused absences from
Recitations, 66; English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94; Composition, 95; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average, 93.42 percent. Average for the
year, 91.50 percent.

CUSHMAN STUDIO. Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R. 44.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney, Phone 10. Developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners. Anything in Felt or Leather Goods. FAW & CARTER. NO. 6 RUMPLE.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C. Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction. WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES.

JUST RECEIVED FROM BROADWAY DIRECT: A New Line of HATS and CAPS. A Fine Selection at Popular Prices. ARMOUR BROTHERS
& THOMPSON. HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS.

SAVE MONEY. We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The swellest styles
of the season. See us before you buy. BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY.

If it's anything in the “GIVING LINE” IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE S. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy. EVERYTHING
NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED. S. A. ELLIOTT. Next door to White Drug Co.
