The DAVIDSONIAN, October 21, 1914

our store. It will make your house warm 24 hours a day. Why be uncomfortable during the cold weather when
we can sell you a Base Burner at such a small cost? M. H. Goodrum & Co.

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We are selling the famous Elizabeth College and Conservatory of Music for Women CHARLOTTE, N.C. SEASON 1914-15. Opening September 14,
1915. Excellent table facilities, physical culture course, trained nurse employed. LOCATION: In the most healthy section of the Asheville Southern
Pines Piedmont District. ENROLLMENT OF STUDENTS: Limited to 80. BUILDINGS: Modern; built especially for college health of students. Private dairy,
laundry, and conservatory of music in concrete building. Stieff Pianos Used Exclusively. For particulars inquire of REV. CHAS. B. KING,
President.

JUST RECEIVED New Line of Parker’s and Waterman’s Fountain Pens White Drug Co.

Next, P. D. Patrick gave one of his characteristic speeches. His words were: “All the cotton crop made in South
Carolina annually would make a sheet big enough to cover the entire face of America and Europe and lap over
the toes of Asia. Or if all the cotton she raises in one year were one cow, she could browse
on the tropical vegetation along the equator while her tail knocked icicles off the North Pole, and that her milk
would float a shipload of her butter and cheese from Charleston to New York. Or if all the mules South
Carolina markets each year were one mule, that mule would consume the entire corn crop of North Carolina at one
meal and kick the spots off the sun without switching its sides or shaking its tail. Or if all the
hogs she raises annually were one big hog, that animal would dig the Panama Canal in the roots without grunting,
and its squeal would be loud enough to jar the coca.”

LAUNDRY “THE OLD RELIABLE” Paley “Ib? The Best on the Hill Give Us a Trial Satisfaction Guaranteed ROURK & McINTIRE
10 North Wing Chambers

REMEMBER? AUTO HIRE FOR CHARLOTTE, STATESVILLE, CONCORD, SALISBURY OR ANYWHERE at ANYTIME See H.B. Mah Charlotte Steam Laundry No. 7
Chambers, First Floor North Wing At Mahew Pressing Club

S.C. CLUB HOLDS BANQUET. On Wednesday evening the South Carolina Club had its first regular meeting. Forty-two of the forty-five
members were present. The meeting was followed by a banquet. Plenty of good spirit and “pep” was shown during the
banquet. The meeting dispersed with several interesting speeches. Messrs. Calhoun, Cousar, and Aiken are among the new South Carolina students
this year who gave interesting speeches.very ably presided over by W. M. Shaw, | Wells for the Palmetto State. 4
very ably presided over by W. M. Shaw. |! 3 Zlits president. A few short, snappy CONTRACTS AWARDED AWARDED speeches
were given by some of the prom-|C f SA RDED TOBE JOHNSON inent members, after which some new FOR THE
ANNUAL W.G. SOMERVILLE. Manager members made remarks on various subjects. Following this was the most important event of the evening.
A splendid banquet was provided, which did credit to those in charge.

The first speaker, A. Scarborough, | careful consideration of several bids. All photograph work, exclusive of the with jokes. The
next speaker, F. H. Roak pictures, will be done by Mr. Roy Smith, recounted the glorious deeds of Mooresville South
Carolina in the past. Following; work has been on exhibition in Armour Smith, J. Shirley spoke on the part Bros,
show window. Mr. Moose has the club has at Davidson, showing that; been taking group and individual pictures South Carolina
has furnished some of | since the first of this week, and he the most prominent men in college. His
will be here until Friday. All individual speech ended thus: “I state without fear and group work, photographs of contradiction
that this club is the used in Quips and Cranks this year must most influential of all college organizations. It
has the only ‘Good’ in college. from past experience that this is the only way to ensure uniformity of work.
Mr. Moose will be in the old library in Chambers to do individual work from 2:30 to 6:00 this afternoon
and all day Thursday. All members of the Graduate, Senior, and Junior classes, and all fraternities, should have pictures taken
during this time.

The contract for engraving work has been made with the Electric City Engraving Company, of Buffalo, N.Y., which has done
this work for Quips and Cranks for several years. Their work and terms have both appealed to the manager as
being the best to be had. Foote and Davies, of Atlanta, will print the Annual this year. The contract has
been awarded to them not only because of the quality of their work in printing and binding, but because of
some special plans contemplated this year which they alone have the facilities to carry out. The managers and editors feel
that they have secured firms of excellent standing and high standards of workmanship to get up every department, and they
are confident that the expectations of the student body for a high-class Annual will not be disappointed.

PRINTING Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed A.
R. HOWLAND, Local Representative PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Now is The Time To Arrange For Music ANDREWS MUSIC STORE Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia
Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music. 213 North Tryon Street CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

General Contractor Painting, Tin Work, Brick Work Repair Work of all Kinds. Good and Quick Service

Rubber Stamps for all purposes Printed Matter of All Descriptions BRADY PRINTING COMPANY STATESVILLE, N. C. Oldest established house on
the Hill I. A. MULLEN, Agent

Mr. Roy Moose, official photographer of Quips and Cranks, will be here the remainder of the week. If you want
work done, consult the schedule on the bulletin board, or see Wm. E. WILLIAMS
