4 VARSITY DEFEATS SCRUBS. (Concluded from page 1)

Sommerville gained two yards around the end. A forward pass failed. Varsity’s ball. Black failed to gain around end. Attempts
at forward passes were twice blocked. McKinnon punted 20 yards out of bounds. Lawson punted, and Black was downed in
his tracks. Laird failed to gain through line, but on a second attempt gained 5 yards. Black was thrown for
a loss of 2 yards. A beautiful forward pass, Keesler to Black, gained 27 yards for the Varsity. Time up.
Score: Varsity 7, Scrubs 0.

Second quarter: Varsity’s ball. McKinnon gained 20 through center. A forward pass, McKay to Anderson, the Varsity scored its second
touchdown. McKinnon kicked goal. McKinnon kicked to 10-yard line, Fowle returning 10 yards. Varsity penalized 5 yards, off-side. Lawson gained
3 around end. Hill thrown for a loss of 3 yards around end. Lawson punted 30 yards, Black returning 1.
Laird gained 9 yards through line, and Black gained 25 around right end. A forward pass failed. Varsity penalized 15
yards, holding. Forward passes attempted twice and failed both times. McKinnon punted 40 yards, Lawson returning 5 yards. Lawson punted
40 yards, Keesler returning 10 yards. Keesler gained 10 through line. Forward pass failed. Keesler lost 3 yards. Forward pass
failed behind goal line. Scrubs’ ball on the 20-yard line. Hill failed to gain through line. Sommerville gained 10 yards.
Varsity off-side, penalized 5 yards. Fowle made 2 over tackle. Forward pass failed. Lawson made 2 yards around tackle. Lawson
punted 35 yards, Keesler returned 5. Keesler failed to gain through the line. Forward pass failed. Scrubs’ ball. Hill gained
3 around end. Fowle failed to gain through line. Sommerville made 5 yards through line. Forward pass failed. Ball went
over to Varsity. Keesler made 2 yards around end. Lawson intercepted forward pass, but was downed in his tracks. Sommerville
failed to gain through line. McKinnon intercepted forward pass and ran 55 yards for a touchdown. McKinnon kicked goal. Score:
Varsity 21, Scrubs 0.

Second half: McKinnon kicked to 5-yard line. Hill by another beautiful run brought back the ball 25 yards. Varsity penalized
5 yards, off-side. Fowle gained 3 through the line. Hill failed to gain. Lawson made 15 yards around end, followed
by a line plunge netting 2 more. Forward pass failed. Sommerville was thrown for a loss of 3 yards. Forward
pass again failed. Varsity’s ball. After receiving a beautiful forward pass from McKinnon, Crayton made a spectacular broken field run
for 48 yards. On a fumble Pharr recovered for the Scrubs. Fowle failed through the line. Hill lost 3 yards
around end. Sommerville failed to gain around end. Lawson punted 35 yards, Black returning one. Forward pass, Keesler to Crayton,
gained 20 yards. End of quarter. Score: Varsity 21, Scrubs 0.

Fourth quarter: The initial attempt of this quarter caused the most sensational run of the afternoon. Fowle intercepted a forward
pass and ran 80 yards for a touchdown. It was a brilliant piece of work. Sommerville kicked goal. Sommerville kicked
25 yards, Crayton returned 20. Sommerville intercepted a forward pass but was downed in his tracks. Black intercepted a forward
pass but was likewise downed in his tracks. Through a broken field Black ran for a gain of 20 yards.
Keesler gained 5 more around end. Two more forward passes failed. Scrubs’ ball. A forward pass failed. Sommerville failed through
line, and on the following play was thrown for a loss of 5 yards. Lawson punted out of bounds 25
yards. The Varsity fumbled, the Scrubs recovering. A well-executed forward pass, Lawson to Ainsley, gained 30 yards. Two forward passes
failed. Sommerville gained 8 through line. At a difficult angle Sommerville lifted the ball squarely between the uprights for a
field goal. Lawson kicked to 5-yard line, Law returning 15. McKinnon punted. Forward pass, Laird to Adams, gained 20 yards.
The second attempt failed. In attempting a forward pass, Keesler was thrown for a loss of 7 yards. Another forward
pass failed. Game ended. Score: Varsity 21, Scrubs 10.

BLYTHE WRITES ABOUT ALUMNI ASSOCIATION. (Concluded from page 1)

...thousand dollars for the Alumni Athletic fund. The executive committee of the Davidson Alumni Athletic Association has been devoting its
energy, time, and its money in securing coaches for Davidson and her Alumni and in trying to arouse the interest
of old Davidson men. Everybody connected in any way with the college is delighted with the success of the two
coaches who were secured by the Alumni Association and who have revolutionized football at the college, and have aroused a
high degree of clean, wholesome, college spirit and loyalty among the students so that the college will be benefited for
years to come. The committee is now trying to close a contract with an excellent baseball coach, a loyal Davidsonian...To
assist Mr. Fetzer in giving us a winning baseball team for the coming season. Through lack of the necessary funds,
the hands of the committee are tied, nor have they any assurance that the Alumni will back them. Where is
that boasted Davidson loyalty? Where are those men who so enthusiastically originated this movement? Where are the funds to discharge
the obligations assumed by the Alumni through their committee? These questions are serious ones to the committee. Either there will
be a heavy burden laid upon the committee or a privilege and a light duty for each individual alumnus who
has any claim of loyalty to the college that did so much for him. Which shall it be? I assure
you that this money will go to pay the salaries and expenses of the coaches, and not to pay men
to play on the teams. A statement of expenditures will be published in The Davidsonian. We beg that every Davidson
alumnus respond to this call by sending his subscription or cash to Mr. C. B. Bailey, who is Secretary and
Treasurer of the committee, at Davidson, or hand them to Mr. K. O. Pharr when he comes to see you.
Mr. Pharr is employed by the Alumni Association committee to collect funds from the Alumni. Let us all prove our
college spirit and loyalty by helping with this fund. F. L. Blythe, Pres. A. A. Assn.

FURMAN CANCELS. The Furman football game which was to have been played on the Hill last Saturday was canceled by
that institution. The manager and coach of their team wrote several letters and sent several telegrams saying that in several
hard games which they had previously played the team had been so seriously crippled and broken up that the team
they would have to bring, should they come, would be their Scrub team. After being called over the long-distance telephone,
in the hope that they could be induced to come, they said that it was absolutely impossible for them to
come, and that they must cancel. In order to make up for this game to season ticket holders, the admission
to the Wake Forest game Thanksgiving to season ticket holders will be 25 cents instead of 75 cents. All season
ticket holders will be admitted to the game here on this coming Saturday between Horner Military Academy and the Second
team. Season tickets will by Thanksgiving have been good for the following amount: Clemson, 75 cents; Piedmont, 38 cents; Newberry,
50 cents; on Citadel game ticket was worth 25 cents, and on Thanksgiving game will be worth 50 cents. The
total value in games for half the year will be about $2.50.

J. B. Mallard’s (’18) mother was a visitor here over Sunday. D. C. Young is spending the week in

While in Charlotte
TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE
“AIN’T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS
PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P. M.
See me for that Ford meter trip to Charlotte
“Watch the Light”

White Drug Co.
Students’ Headquarters for
Your Patronage is Solicited
Satisfied Customers are our Best Advertisement

We have the goods that you want---new and fresh. Located in the center of town. Physicians Prescriptions a Specialty
Sales agency for Huyler’s Candy
Jetton Drug Co.

A FEAST for the devotee of athletics is a visit to a Spalding store. Therein he can see and examine
implements and accessories for every known athletic sport. An expert will take pleasure in showing him what the champions use
in their respective lines. He can wield a racket, swing a golf club or a baseball bat, punch a bag
or “do a stunt” on the gym apparatus; he can even take an imaginary row on one of the rowing
machines; in fact, he can go through the maneuvers of every form of athletic sport right in our store. If
you cannot call at a Spalding store, then the next best thing is to send for a Spalding catalogue.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. Broad St. : : : ATLANTA, GA.

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON N.C.
