__THE DAVIDSONIAN.__

We are receiving daily our New Fall Goods and our stock is open to your inspection. We will be glad
to show you our Gent's Furnishing, Shoes, Hats, Caps. Also Furniture, Rugs, and Druggets at all prices. Sheets, Pillow Cases,
Comforts, Blankets, Window Shades, and other things too numerous to mention that you may need. Our stock is complete. Give
your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON, Davidson College, representing SHU-FIXERY, CHARLOTTE, N. C.

C US B 4 U BUY
M. H. Goodrum & Co.

SCOFIELD'S
Charlotte Steam Laundry
44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream
Oldest, Quickest, Best
Fruits, Confectioneries
and other good “Eats”
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly by
W. Y. SAYAD
SCOFIELD’S
Chambers, First Floor North Wing

DAVIDSON'S COACHES.

Cleaning and Pressing
Splendid Athletic Director and Assistant This Year.

Never has Davidson been more fortunate in securing an able and competent set of football coaches as she has this
year. Mr. Fetzer accepted early in July the position of athletic director for the scholastic year.

Mr. Nelson Harris was chosen as assistant football coach, and in addition to these two, many of the alumni, mentioned
elsewhere, are assisting in the early coaching.

Mr. Fetzer was a member of the class of ‘07, and while a student was always prominent in athletics and
in other circles on the campus. He played end on the football team and was ranked by Coach Robert Graham
as one of the very best at that time in the South. In 1908 he remained at Davidson, acting as
instructor in Chemistry and keeping his hold on the students by his fine work as an assistant coach, though without
official rating as such. His next year was spent at Clemson, where he was an associate in Chemistry and took
his M.A. degree. He was at the same time an associate coach.

For several years Mr. Fetzer was at a preparatory school in Virginia, where he had entire charge of athletics. He
then went to A. & M. College in Raleigh, as an associate in Chemistry, and maintained there his interest in
physical training. It will be recalled that he is at the head of the Western Carolina. For several past seasons
he has been acting as an official in games played by the larger institutions. He knows the game, and knows
how to train for it and to handle himself and opposing sides when made either umpire or referee.

The executive committee of the Davidson Alumni Athletic Association has been instrumental in securing Mr. Fetzer for the college for
this year. The committee felt that he is by all odds the best man that could be secured, and is
confident that he will make good in his popularity with the students and in the results of his work.

Satisfaction Guaranteed
ROURK & McINTIRE
10 North Wing Chambers

Why put it off longer? Our prices arethe lowest consistent with quality. We offer a slightly used Stieff Player Piano
at a very low price in order to sell it at once. 219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N. C.
Opposite Academy of Music

Robert A. Fetzer accepted; Virginia coaching staff, later games, knows and loves it. The alumni who are fortunate in having
him. The new maid was instructed that under no circumstances were callers to be admitted—except, of course, he added—in case
of life and death. Half an hour later the maid knocked at his door. “A gentleman to see you, sir.”
“Why, I thought I told you—” “Yes, I told him,” she replied, “but he said it is a question of
life and death.” So he went downstairs and found an insurance agent. —Argonaut.

Fetzer was connected with the well-known Woodberry-Forest. Last year he was connected with A. of the Cherokee Summer Camp for
boys. He is a student of the game and will put enthusiasm into his work. Davidson is fortunate in having
him.

Lady (in registry office) — “I am afraid that girl won't do for a nurse. She is too small. I
should hesitate to trust her with the baby.” Clerk—“Her size, madam, we look upon as her greatest recommendation. Remember that
when she drops a baby it doesn’t have very far to fall!” —Ex.

September 9, 1914

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE. Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor,
Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music. 213 North
Tryon Street, CHARLOTTE, N. C.

An English minister, who guarded his morning study hour very carefully, told the new maid that under no circumstances were
callers to be admitted—except, of course, he added—in case of life and death. Half an hour later the maid knocked
at his door. “A gentleman to see you, sir.” “Why, I thought I told you—” “Yes, I told him,” she
replied, “but he said it is a question of life and death.” So he went downstairs and found an insurance
agent. —Argonaut.

Clearance Sale: In order to make room for our fall line of Shoes we are sacrificing our spring line of
the famous Florsheim Shoes. $5.00 low cuts now $4.00. $4.50 low cuts now $3.75.

Send Your Suit to MAHEW’S PRESSING CLUB And let a white man give you a white job. WM. E. WILLIAMS,
Agent 23 Chambers

Coach Fetzer will be assisted in his work this fall by Mr. Nelson Harris, of the University of Virginia. Mr.
Harris was a star half-back at Woodberry Forest. On the Virginia team he did hard, consistent work, playing end and
half-back. Last year Mr. Harris was on the coaching staff and traveled. He is enthusiastic and will put enthusiasm into
his work. Davidson is fortunate in having him.

PRINTING: Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing. Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed. A.
R. HOWLAND, Local Representative PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

First Student (in a burst of admiration) — “Professor Gabby is a wonder as a linguist. What tongue hasn't he
mastered?” Associate Professor (dryly) — “His wife's.” —Baltimore American.

“Have you an opening here for me?” asked the assertive young man. “Yes,” answered the manager, “right behind you.” —Cleveland
Plain Dealer.

The capitalist colored when he spoke of the check that hung in a neat frame over his desk. “A bit
of sentimentalism,” said he: “the first billion I ever made!” —Reedy’s Mirror.

C. B. MOONEY, General Contractor. Painting, Tin Work, Brick Work, Repair Work of all Kinds. Good and Quick Service.
