2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams... ..... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick. ...... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
I. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlvaine

Reporters’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
K. H. Hamilton
T. M. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

THE GAMECOCK GAME.
The game with South Carolina last Saturday brings Davidson to the near end of a splendid season. Only one game has been lost, and that to the big Tarheels. Davidson has run up a total of 257 points to her opponents’ 35. It would be hard to find a season for many years past that shows a better record. The game with Wake Forest remains to be played, and comparative scores would give the fighting Red and Black Machine a slight edge. It is true that Wake Forest held North Carolina to a 12-7 score last Saturday, showing surprising and greatly increased strength. North Carolina used nothing but straight football, however, while Homewood, Tandy, and Tayloe, whose work was so disastrous to Davidson, were out of the game. It will be a great game and well worth seeing. The Baptists will fight us hard. They are having mass “pep” meetings daily, and their slogan is “On to Charlotte—Beat Davidson.”

THE REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Below the editorial staff this week will be seen the names of the men elected to the new Reporters’ Staff. The competition for places on this staff was opened two months ago, and out of the twenty who entered it, the above were chosen by the Editorial Staff at the last meeting. Promptness in covering assignments, general style and neatness in writing, and adherence to newspaper rules, were all taken into consideration. It is to be understood, however, that the Reporters’ Staff is open all the year till the first of April. Any of those who were not elected this time may still try for places during the next few months, as well as others who have not competed before this. The new members on the Editorial Staff for 1915-1916 will be chosen from the Reporters’ Staff only. We congratulate the successful contestants for reporters’ positions, but wish to remind the new men that the same standard of work will be required of them, and a reporter will be dropped at any time who becomes inattentive to assignments or careless in his work.

FAW RESIGNS.
On account of other pressing duties, including the management of the Annual, J. E. Faw handed in his resignation to The Davidsonian Staff at the last meeting. This was accepted, but the Staff expressed its regret of the necessity for it, and its appreciation of the faithful and excellent work which Faw has done for the paper. He has written some of the very best articles this year.

The DAVIDSONIAN. November 18, 1914

STATE SPIRIT.
Now that dormitory spirit has waned, the new fad seems to be State Spirit, but it is one which should become permanent. The men of the various States represented here are organizing into clubs, and nearly every one has had its banquet or “feed.” While social in nature, the meetings have been earnest in purpose. The slogan of nearly every club is “Double Our State Constituency Next Year.” It is a splendid thing, this State Spirit, and should bear rich fruit.

DAVIDSON AND HORNER.
The Horner football cadets visited Davidson last Saturday, and Davidson men were delighted with them. They proved to be a clean, manly set, and true sportsmen. Although they were defeated by the Scrubs, yet they put up a fine fight, twice holding on their five-yard line. The team contains some very promising material. Horner is the nearest Preparatory School to Davidson and should furnish Davidson with many good men in the yearsto come. And Davidson men should do all in their power to further increase the mutual good feeling and brotherliness between the two institutions.

THE GUILFORDIAN

We welcome with pleasure to the table of North Carolina college weeklies the first few issues of “The Guilfordian,” now being published by the students of Guilford College. It is a creditable and interesting sheet, and will no doubt become one of the leading college newspapers of the Carolinas. We congratulate the editorial staff on the enterprising way in which they have begun. Nothing so binds students and alumni together and helps to mould student opinion as the college weekly.

We would venture to suggest, however, that for the sake of the appearance of the paper and newspaper “etiquette” that the headlines be made more even and attractive, and that the editorial “we” be used only in the editorials.

There are now four college newspapers in the State, “The North Carolina Tarheel,” “The Trinity Chronicle,” “The Davidsonian,” and now “The Guilfordian.” The number could well be increased. “The Guilfordian” has the distinction of being the only college paper in the Carolinas edited by a lady. Miss Kathryn Dorsett is editor-in-chief. Best wishes!

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE

The following men are scheduled to come off in the Literary Societies next Saturday night and Monday morning:

Debate, November 21

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
Affirmative. Negative.
Alexander McClead, J. D. Young
Ratchford Bain, F. M. McGeachy
Finley, R. G. McBryde. Overton

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Hamilton Hoyt
Hobson Johnson, W. A.
Hudson, D. V. Humphrey
Johnson, N. Dumas

DECLAMATIONS AND ORATIONS, NOVEMBER 23

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
Bain, L. A. Carriker
McDonald, K. A. McKinnon, M.
Mitchell, C. E. Cooper
Gilchrist Pridgen
Ramsey

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Kluttz Jenkins
Law Jones, R. C.
McIlwaine Jones, R. H.
Scarborough Kennedy
Keesler, S. R.

The Davidson post office sells an average of $400 worth of stamps a month.

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See R. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Howland, 26 R.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. B. C. Mooney, Phone 40.

WINE SAP APPLES. 30 cents peck. See Geo. Robson, at Infirmary.

WANTED—To decorate your room with Harrison-Fisher pictures. Special holiday prices. See us at No. 26 Rumple.

Mr. T. W. Cook, or more commonly known as ‘Coach’ Cook, is in New York City, engaged in physical training work. His work is under the direction of the New York Board of Education.

Mr. E. P. Childs, of Asheville, who is prominently connected with educational work in the Carolinas and Tennessee, visited his son, of the class of ’— over Sunday. The Ministerial Band enjoyed an address from him Sunday night.

The invitations for Senior Speaking arrived Monday and have been distributed by the marshals. Seniors are entitled to six, Juniors and Sophomores to three, and Freshmen to two.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners
Anything in Felt or Leather Goods
FAW & CARTER
NO. 6 RUMPLE

When in Charlotte always stop at
HOTEL STONEWALL

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

New Stock, Correct Styles at low prices. European war has not increased our prices. Our Line of Regal $4, $4.50 and $5 Shoes are the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the war has raised the price?

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON
HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS

Just Received—A line of the latest styles of Windsorette ties right off Broadway. See Our New Shipment of $2.00 and $3.00 hats. See Our Line of Rain Coats, Sweaters, Shirts, Collars, Hosiery, Hats, Caps, Etc.

SAVE MONEY
We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods and Notions. The Swellest Styles of the Season. See us before you buy.

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company