STRONG ADDRESS. (Concluded from page 1)

Greek exercises in the book was that the first of them had but two mistakes, and by the end of
the freshman year’s work not an error could be found. The last two or three pages were devoted to personal
accounts, and the sight of them gave rise to a remark by Dr. Smith that while he was in college
it was whispered that one man from New Orleans had spent four hundred dollars in one year. The average amount
spent was considerably under two hundred at that time. Among the items entered in the notebook was a pair of
suspenders at six cents, a wild extravagance, for why should they have cost more than five. The price of board
does not seem to have been very much cheaper than it is now, but railroad fare was about four cents
a mile, and a trip to Charlotte was quite an item. The village streets were impassable in bad weather, wagons
often miring just about opposite the new stores. The path between the society halls was almost as bad, and Dr.
Smith is confident that the different stages in culture could be traced now by the design of the overshoes embedded
in the strata under these places. The principal sport was baseball, though match games were few, and uniforms were unheard
of. There was one game in which Dr. Smith distinguished himself. The team had challenged Charlotte, and a special train
had been run, bringing about four hundred people up to see the game. Dr. Smith was playing shortstop near the
grandstand, and a ball coming toward him considerably out of his reach, he made a leap for it and won
the game by catching it, but the result to his clothes was disastrous, and he was obliged to retreat hastily
for repairs. College life was, of course, very different from what it is now. The literary societies were the whole
diversion in any organized form outside of the curriculum. But, considering the kind of work done in that Greek exercise
book, little time went to waste.

COACHES EXPRESS APPRECIATION OF SCRUBS' WORK.

The success of the football season has been due, in a large measure, to the services of the faithful substitutes
and scrubs. The coaches are glad of an opportunity to express their most sincere appreciation to each member of this
faithful squad. Their courteous deportment on the field, their hearty cooperation and willing efforts in carrying out the instructions of
the coaches, have been sources of pleasure to us and have resulted in great benefit to the Varsity. The spirit
of faithfulness to duty and untiring effort is certain to be rewarded by ultimate success and the assured presentation of
the coveted football “D.”

SENIORS COME BACK STRONG.

The Seniors won over the Sophomores in basketball this afternoon by a score of 29 to 20. The Sophs outclassed
their opponents in the first half, piling up 18 points against the Seniors’ 6. The Seniors came back strong in
the last half, allowing only one field goal to be scored against them. This was the last of the regular
scheduled games, but the Seniors and Freshmen will have to play another game for the class championship. The percentage at
present is as follows:

| Won | Lost | P.C. |
|------|------|------|
| Seniors | 4 | 2 | .666 |
| Fresh | 4 | 2 | .666 |
| Juniors | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| Sophs | 1 | 5 | .166 |

WILL NOT GIVE FLOWERS.

Owing to the hard times and the uselessness of the custom, the Pan-Hellenic Council has decided that no flowers will
be given to the visiting ladies here for Senior Speaking.

The DAVIDSONIAN. November 25, 1914

SENIOR SPEAKING. (Concluded from page 1)

Salisbury—Misses Hope Baker, Elizabeth Davis, Alice McKenzie, Elizabeth McKenzie.
Statesville—Miss Margaret Sheppard.
Thomasville—Miss Helen Julian.
Waynesville—Miss Annie Albright.
Wilmington—Miss Louisa Worth.
Wilson—Miss Erwin Carter.
Winston-Salem—Misses Ida Efird, Mary Efird, Serena Dalton, Hines, Tina Katt, Virginia Wiggins.

The following visitors are expected from points outside of North Carolina:

Anderson, S. C.—Miss Ruth Watkins.
Atlanta, Ga.—Miss Susie Hamilton.
Birmingham, Ala.—Miss Mary Bradley.
Brunswick, Ga.—Miss Gladys McKinnon.
Charleston, S. C.—Miss Nan Rugheimer.
Charlottesville, Va.—Misses Laura Wood, Margaret Barringer.
Chester, S. C.—Miss Emma Woods.Columbia, S. C.—Miss Clara Elliot. Easley, S. C.—Miss Essie Hagood. Fountain Inn, S. C.—Miss Lucile Shaw.
Gaffney, S. C.—Miss Daisy Wilkins. Miss Gooding. Little Rock, Ark.—Miss Murphy. Newberry, S. C.—Miss Margaret Burton. New York—Miss Donalda Hagen.
Norfolk, Va.—Miss Josie Jewett. Richmond, Va.—Misses Elizabeth Beveridge, Jeanie Lundy. Rock Hill, S. C.—Misses Mary and Elizabeth Roddey, Katharine Poe,
Maud Barron. Spartanburg, S. C.—Misses Julia Calvert, Leita Trimmier, Florence Moss. Sumter, S. C.—Miss Cora Duffie, Adele Pitts, Susie Dicks.
Toccoa, Ga.—Miss Marjorie Danse. Urumia, Persia—Miss Ahmad Ali Shah. Washington, D. C.—Miss Patty Bramlette. Yorkville, S. C.—Miss Witherspoon.

DAVIDSON SECOND TEAM TRIUMPHS OVER HORNER.

The Scrubs met Horner in Charlotte Saturday, and defeated them by a score of 21 to 0. The game was
fast and hard-fought in spite of the large score, and at times the Horner lads held the Scrubs for downs
in the shadow of the goal posts. In the initial quarter, Horner kicked off to Davidson, and a march straight
up the field started. Finally, Adams ploughed through the line for the first touchdown after about five minutes of play.
Then Horner received and Law threw Morrison back for a safety on the kickoff.

In the third quarter, two more touchdowns were marked up to the Scrubs’ credit by Hill. He played a great
game, making consistent gains during the entire game. Also, the playing of Savad and Critz was fine. For Horner, Morrison,
Pressley, and Hines played good ball, but their real star was Orr. The line-up:

Scrubs. Position. Horner
Pharr .......... C .......... Orr
White .......... R.G. ........ Nance
Savad .......... L.G. ........ Cherry
Law (Capt.) .... R.T. ........ Hines
Paisley ........ R.E. ........ Short
Whitesides ..... L.T. ........ Alexander
Watkins ........ L.E. ........ Council
Williams ....... Q.B. ........ Gray
Critz .......... R.H.B. ...... Morrison
Adams ......... L.H.B. ...... Boylin
Hill ........... F.B. ........ Pressley

Subs—Davidson: Tulian for Adams, Crouch for Critz, White for Pharr, Hughes for White, Finley for Hughes, Law for Williams, Porter
for Law.

Be sure and wear some streaming “Red and Black” ribbon Thursday. Referee, Mr. Dowd; Umpire, Mr. Harris. Time of quarters,
12 minutes.

Misses Evelyn and Mar- Washington—Miss Carlotta Nichol- Louisa.

While in Charlotte Visit TATE’S BARBER SHOP. The best work by Experienced Barbers. EAST TRADE ST.

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE. “AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD” (DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

EAT AT SLOAN'S
AT SLOAN’S QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES. He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P. M.

See me for that Ford meter trip to Charlotte. “Watch the”

White Drug Co.
Prescriptions carefully compounded by registered pharmacists. We are sales agents for Norris Exquisite Candies. We have a full line of
Tobacco.

COME TO SEE US. Satisfied Customers are our Best Advertisement.

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON, Davidson College. Representing SHU-FIXERY, CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE group pictures for the Annual will be in No. 23 Chambers this week. Don't fail to see them.

Wm. E. Williams

AMERICAN TRUST CO.

HAVE YOU EVER NOTICED that in any game where a ball is used in a competitive way, that the official
ball always bears this trademark, whether it be FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL, INDOOR BASEBALL, LACROSSE, BASEBALL, or any other athletic game? There
must be a reason for this universal adoption by the leading organizations connected with sports, and there is a reason—no
one can make them as good. The same argument applies to all things athletic. CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
G. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.
