Pressed, the mere change or rearrangement of but a few words may perfect the rhythm and increase the euphony of the passage tenfold. The importance of a nice distinction in words is well illustrated by the following: Dr. Charles W. Eliot suggested as an appropriate legend for the east entrance.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

The DAVIDSONIAN.
April 29, 1914

WANT ADS.
RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

FELLOWS. I will be around in a few days to get clothes for the Orphanage. We will appreciate anything you will give us. J.T. Williams.

WANTED—To move that trunk.

NEW BOOK BY DR. SHEARER
“Prayer Meeting Papers,” by Lizzi Gessner Shearer, edited by her husband with a sketch of her life, is the way the title page reads to the latest work from the pen of Dr. Shearer. The volume is now in press, but will soon be received from the publishers. It consists of a collection of one hundred outlines of talks, with references which will be of much practical value to ministers and leaders of prayer meetings.

The Rev. T. C. Rowan, pastor of the 7:30 to 8:00 P. M. on the floor of the new post office building at Washington:

F. W. Price......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick...... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville. . Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. E. Faw
L. W. Klutz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed. Application for entrance as second class matter pending.

SUBSCRIPTION $1.00 PER YEAR

THE NEW ADMINISTRATION.
The Presidency of the Student Body is a responsibility as well as an honor. In questions of serious consequence, his opinion and his standing are a tremendous factor. At all times, whether presiding over the Student Council or the Student Body, he needs tact, firmness, and strength. The students of Davidson College have chosen to put their faith in Mr. Scarborough for the coming year. He is a man who will guard faithfully the principles of honor for which the college stands. The students owe to him and to his associate Vice-Presidents earnest and hearty support in everything which will enlarge the efficiency and influence of Davidson. To the new Administration, Greeting!

HOME TALENT.
A wonderful drawing card are the two words “Home Talent.” Citizens are with honor in their own country when it comes to displaying publicly their powers and genius. And the schoolboys and girls of a town are a big attraction always. The play acted by the students of the High School last Saturday night, with the aid of a few college students and one or two teachers, was a credit to the school and to all who took part. Such enthusiasm, skill, and ease on the stage of life will make the town proud of her sons and daughters, some day.

TENNIS.
Tennis has always been one of the most popular sports at Davidson. A racket and a pair of tennis balls are within the scope of every man’s pocketbook, and a set can be played when other recreation is crowded out. But the opportunity for good tennis could be much improved and increased by better organization. There are still two or three court spaces available on the new grounds. A few afternoons’ work would put them in good shape and improve greatly the appearance of this place. With very little expense to each, the owners of the various courts could employ a man to keep them marked and in good condition. Better and more tennis would result. Why not have more than one championship court? A class tennis tournament at a season when other athletics are not in the foreground would stimulate as much interest as class baseball or football. There is no use in having an apology for tennis at Davidson.

JUST WORDS.
The weekly composition is the dread of many an English student, especially in the lower classes of a college. When the subject assigned seems a little difficult, one is apt to think that the good derived from such work is not worth the time required. True, composition is just the putting together of words; but how much depends on the right choice and correct arrangement of these words! After the thought has been correctly expressed, the mere change or rearrangement of but a few words may perfect the rhythm and increase the euphony of the passage tenfold. The importance of a nice distinction in words is well illustrated by the following: Dr. Charles W. Eliot suggested as an appropriate legend for the east entrance.: Carrier of news and knowledge, Instrument of trade and industry, Promoter of mutual acquaintance, of peace and good will Among men and Nations. For the west entrance Dr. Eliot sug- Carrier of love and sympathy, Messenger of friendship, Consoler of the lonely, Bond of the scattered family, Enlarger of the public life. President Wilson’s revision is: Messenger of sympathy and love, Servant of parted friends, Consoler of the lonely Bond of the scattered family, Enlarger of the common life. The thought is virtually the same in both cases, but note how much more suggestive, concrete, and rhythmical is the President's expression. Such choice and arrangement of words as President Wilson's is indeed a gift. But constant practice will do much towards improving any style; and even the greatest genius in the world would amount to nothing without work.

CLASS BANQUET AT HENDERSON'S HOTEL.

On Friday night, April 17, the two Prep Math Classes, thirty strong, had a banquet at Henderson Hotel. A. S. Tompkins was toastmaster, and the following toasts were given during the evening: Frank Brady, “An Unknown Quantity;” M. E. Robertson, “Flunking;” J. D. Davis, “Davison;” C. E. Rankin, “Reductio ad Absurdum;” C. B. Williams, “Acute Angles;” V. C. Hall, “Our Hall of Fame;” W. Y. Savad, “An Original;” W. T. Smith, “Q. E. D.;” F. W. Price, “The Price of a Pass.”

WILL DAVIDSON COME TO THIS?

An old Scottish gentleman who was a great enthusiast on the golf links, and a young man who was equally enthusiastic about the game, had spent the entire day in the field, and had had some remarkably close and exciting games. As they left for home the old man remarked, while his rugged face lighted up with a pleasant smile: “Hey, Mon, but it's been a gran’ day!” “It has,” assented the young man. “Think Ye could come again on the morrow, laddie?” “Well,” answered the young man reflectively, “I was to be married, but I can put it off.”—Lippincott’s.

TO THE VICTOR BELONGS THE PIE, UNLESS—

About a week ago quite a fracas took place at Georgia Tech and all because of one small piece of blackberry pie. During dinner, when the waiter was serving the dessert, he happened to leave an extra piece of pie on the freshmen’s table. Claims were immediately put in by two freshmen, and it was finally agreed that they should adjourn to the campus and decide by the manly art of fisticuff who should take the pie unto himself. And so they were having the fight of their lives when the sad news was borne to them that one of their number, a second Judas, had masticated that pie with the greatest calmness and delectation. The fight was called off.

First Presbyterian church of Camden has been selected by the Alumni Association of Columbia Theological Seminary to be the principal speaker at their annual celebration. Mr. Rowan received the B. D. degree at Union Theological Seminary, in the class of ‘08 and is an old Alumnus of Davidson.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. T. B. Pratt, Davidson, N. C.

FOR SALE—Pennants, sofa pillows, banners, kodak albums, and fraternity goods. If it’s felt, we have it. Attention given to special orders. Faw & Carter, 11 Ga.

FOR SALE—Pennants and Felt Goods at a liberal discount. Finley and Patton, 6 Watts.

WANTED—Suits to dry-clean, at 75 cents each. High-grade work. Wm. E. Williams, Agent, Statesville Steam Laundry.

BUY your kodak supplies from Torrence the Jeweler, Davidson, N. C.

Quite a large number of the alumni have attended the baseball games on the hill this year. It is a pleasure to see these old men. It is hoped that the remainder of the games will be as well attended.

Mr. H. L. Scarborough of Sumter, S. C., visited his son over Sunday.

W. A. Julian has returned from a ten days’ visit at home, due to sickness.

STIEFF PIANOS ARE THE PINNACLE of UNEXCELLED EXCELLENCE. Write for Catalog and Prices. Our easy payment plan will interest YOU.

STIEFF OPPOSITE ACADEMY OF MUSIC Charlotte, N.C.

M. W. Cranford & Son SANITARY GROCERY Dealers in THE BEST OF GENERAL MERCHANDISE FRUITS, CANDIES, PEANUTS, CIGARS, STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES, CIGARETTES, COLD DRINKS, TOILET SOAP, STATIONERY. Next door to the Bank. Polite service to all, and all patronage appreciated. CALL AND SEE US.

JOHN E. WERTZ

EAT AT SLOAN’S QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES. We Will Treat you Right. Open Every Day ’Till 12 P. M. “Watch the Light”

Buy Hardware at the HARDWARE STORE “There's a Reason” R. D. MOONEY & CO.