The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

W. Price........Editor-in-Chief
P. Williams......Assistant Editor
D. Patrick.......Business Manager
G. Somerville....Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
E. Faw
L. W. Kluttz
W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of support and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed. Application for
entrance as second class matter pending.

SUBSCRIPTION $1.00 PER YEAR

NEXT YEAR'S FRESHMEN.

The men of the three classes who return next year are naturally interested in the students who will enter next
fall. There is always speculation beforehand as to the personnel, size, and character of the coming Freshman class. Yet very
few of us realize as we ought the importance of this class. Not in their own eyes—all discouragement to that—but
in view of their coming development into the Seniors and leaders of Davidson. In four years the class of 1918
will be filling a large majority of the important offices in the student body. Its men will be the men
of most influence in every activity. President Martin has struck a keynote to the success of Davidson when he has
been urging the men of each State to do all in their power to induce prospective college students to come
to Davidson. Too many leave this to letters and catalogues. In and around every student's home are men who with
persuasion and encouragement would come to Davidson next fall.

Davidson needs strong men. She needs mature men. She needs athletic talent, literary talent. Every man can be a canvasser
this summer. Bring the Freshmen in with you next fall to make the best class—yes, better than your own—that Davidson
has had yet.

A column of this issue has been devoted to the work of the Civic League. It has done and is
doing much for the community. Its members are wide-awake and active in their efforts and deserve the heartiest of support.
Read the article and help the League.

The Student Council elections last week have placed on the Council for next year a set of strong, faithful men.
We congratulate them on their honor and the classes on their choice.

The baseball game with South Carolina Thursday is the last game of the season. We can come in on the
home stretch if we will. Let's make the pep tomorrow afternoon the greatest yet.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS LENOIR.

In a rather loose and unexciting game, Davidson walloped Lenoir College to the tune of 8 to 3. Osteen was
on the mound for the Varsity, while Plyler twirled for the visitors. Davidson scored two in the third, three in
the fifth, and three more in the seventh, almost every run being registered by a clean hit. The visitors scored
one in the first after two errors were made. In the third, after a three-bagger by Conrad, he was scored
on a single. In the last frame, after an error by Keesler, two hits scored one more run. The only
feature of the game was the hitting of Stough, who secured two triples during the game, and in the ninth
Somerville made a pretty catch of a liner. The score by innings:

R H E
Davidson 002 030 30x—8 12 4
Lenoir 101 000 100—3 5

Batteries: Osteen and Keesler; Plyler and Boggs; Umpire, Cranford; Scorer, Tompkins. Time, 1:45.

THE DAVIDSON CIVIC LEAGUE

The activities of the Davidson Civic League are now carried on through departments. Each member belongs to one or more
departments, according to her special interest at the time. These departments work more or less independently, although the whole club
must pass on disbursements and on new undertakings.

Perhaps the most important branch of any Civic Club’s work is that which comes under the head of “Streets and
Sanitation.” Our League has a strong committee of ladies in this department, and they have a wide field of activity
in Davidson. Everyone is looking to them with expectancy to see what measures they will propose to meet the present
dust problem. The long dry spell and the increase of automobile traffic render the situation worse than usual at this
time, and it is entirely for us who live here to say how long we will endure the clouds of
dust rising, germ-laden, from the dirty streets, to come up on our verandas, to enter our windows, and even to
settle on our dishes and food. The prevalence of “dust colds,” with all their discomforts and dangers, proves what a
menace to health dusty streets are to adults and children. It has been proposed that the ladies of this department
make overtures to the automobile owners—now a goodly and ever-increasing number of our most progressive citizens. Naturally, the auto driver
suffersAs much as anyone else from the dust which his and his friend’s machine stirs up, these gentlemen would be
most anxious to relieve the situation and to allow themselves and their companions to be seen in all their splendor
as they shoot by, rather than to be half-concealed by a yellow cloud that is not becoming to any complexion.
We hope a plan for oiling the streets within the town limits will soon be proposed, considered, and adopted.

Another active department of the local League is that concerned with “School Improvement.” After spending money in various ways at
the school, this committee was earnestly entreated by the teachers employed there to take steps toward providing a small working
library for the school. It has been proved over and over that the teacher who uses the most books is
the most interesting teacher, and that the pupil who reads the most is found at the head of his class,
and that the best pupils make the best citizens—so this was evidently a civic undertaking. In fact, the need of
books for rent enlists our dollars for the Library treasury. Dr. Lingle gave the proceeds of a “Travel Talk,” then
the committee issued a circular letter explaining the movement and followed it up with a personal canvass of the town
by districts. The result of the first two weeks' soliciting was made known Saturday when the committee met. A table
heaped with books made the library begin to look like a reality. These volumes have all been carefully selected for
the purpose and form a valuable nucleus for the library.

Among these books already collected are noticeable nine volumes from Dr. Shearer’s shelves, three of these being a handsome calf-skin
edition of “Ridpath’s History of the World”; Mrs. Foster contributed a Student’s Cyclopedia in two volumes; Miss Shaw, “Mabie’s Fairy
Tales Every Child Should Know,” and a good collection of American Poems; Mrs. Brady, a set of five volumes of
“Stories”; and Mrs. W. R. Grey, “Greene's History of the English People.” A number of other people have promised books,
and it is very probable that some students have books encumbering their shelves which they would be glad to donate
to the residence of Mrs. Moore McConnell, Mrs. W. R. Grey, or Mrs. Lingle. Those volumes that are suitable will
be placed in the school library, others may be sold and the proceeds used for the same purpose.

Mrs. T. J. Lingle kindly contributed the above items.

WANT ADS.
One time, 5c a line.

WANTED—To do your Kodak work. A. R. Howland.

WANTED—To supply you with the best grade of hosiery. Brown-Knox Mercantile Co.

LOST—Dark high-necked sweater on the Athletic field. Finder return to The Davidsonian Office and receive reward. The minimum charge is
the price for two lines.

LOST—Black fielder’s glove. Has the initial “B” burnt on the back. Finder please return to No. 25 Ga. and receive
a liberal reward.

FELLOWS, I will be around in a few days to get clothes for the Orphanage. We will appreciate anything you
will give us. J. T. Williams.

GRAHAM DEFEATS SCRUBS.
On last Saturday, the second nine journeyed over to Concord in autos and played the Concord Cincos. The outhpaw, Graham,
was too much for them, pitching in big league fashion. He allowed only two hits, struck out twenty-one of the
Scrubs, and only two men reached second. If he could duplicate the form he had Saturday in every game, he
would have little trouble in making any State League. For Davidson, James started the pitching and was relieved by W.
Joel Smith. The Scrubs made quite a number of errors, and this, together with a few hits, netted Concord seven
runs.

FOR SALE—Pennants and Felt Goods at a liberal discount. See Finley and Patton, 6 Watts.

BUY your kodak supplies from Torrence the Jeweler, Davidson, N. C.

FOR SALE—Pressing Club Tickets at reduced rates. J. H. Carson.

STIEFF PIANOS ARE THE PINNACLE of UNEXCELLED EXCELLENCE. Write for Catalog and Prices. Our easy payment plan will interest YOU.
ESTABLISHED 1842. STIEFF, Charlotte, N.C. OPPOSITE ACADEMY OF MUSIC.

M. W. Cranford & Son
SANITARY GROCERY
Dealers in the BEST OF GENERAL MERCHANDISE, CIGARS, CANDIES, PEANUTS, & STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES. TOILET SOAP, STATIONERY. Next door to the
Bank. Polite service to all, and all patronage appreciated. CALL AND SEE US.

JOHN B. WERTZ
EAT AT SLOAN’S
Buy Hardware at the Hardware Store. PASTRIES & CANDIES. He Will Treat you Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P.M.
“Watch the Light” STORE. “There's a Reason.”

R. D. MOONEY & CO.
