wy chan of conscience, and guilty of violat-

The DAVIDSONIAN.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Price... Editor-in-Chief J.P. Williams... Assistant Editor P. D. Patrick... Business Manager W.G. Somerville... Assistant Manager STAFF: J. H. Carson Norman Johnson L. B. Faw I. W. Kluttz C. W. Gignilliat, W. A. McIlwaine J. G. Patton

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

DEFEATED, NOT CONQUERED.

Davidson won a moral victory in Winston-Salem on Saturday. Though outscored, she was not outfought, and though defeated in figures, she was a conqueror in spirit. For against a university of 900, against a team that humbled Georgia by seven touchdowns, and won over Vanderbilt, she made a determined and glorious fight that has never been excelled in the State, and that opened the eyes of the football world. Two touchdowns were all the mighty Bulldogs could register, and those in the last half. And when they left the field they paid their respect to a team that does not fear, and to a student body that does not fail. Even if Davidson had won, the outstanding glory of the battle would be the undying spirit with which every Davidson man backed the team, before the game, during it, and above all, after it. It was the expression of the unfailing confidence and pride of the student body in the team this year. And it will be reflected throughout the South wherever a Davidson alumnus breathes.

DUTY.

While every man passively assents to the Student Body Constitution, and recognizes its force, an astonishingly small number seem to appreciate the fact that they have a vital part in enforcing it. It is as obligatory upon a man under the Student Body Code of Ethics recently adopted to report cheating, hazing, and dishonorable conduct as it is for him to steer clear of these things himself. He is not brought under the Students’ Council for it, but he is upholding the Constitution.

SCORE HEARD BY QUARTERS.

The few unfortunate ones left on the Hill last Saturday were scarcely less interested than those in Winston. Arrangements were made to have the score telegraphed by quarters and the front of the White Drug Company’s new store was to be used as a bulletin. Quite a large crowd of both students and townspeople had gathered when the first score came in: nothing to nothing. Taking time only to give a yell announcing the score to the few stragglers not yet collected, the entire body adjourned to the telegraph office eager for more news. It soon came at the end of the second half: Davidson 0, Carolina 0. Enthusiasm ran wild, the streets were almost deserted, and visions of a monstrous parade loomed on. Impatiently, the crowd, which by this time had been considerably augmented, waited between halves. Finally, with most breathless tenseness, they awaited the result of the third quarter which everyone realized as crucial. The result was of course a great disappointment, but like the men at Winston, the pep was kept up. And even when the final score came in announcing a victory for Carolina, 19 to 0, none had aught but praise for the team.

D. C. ALUMNI IN GEORGIA.

The members of the Davidson College Alumni Association of Georgia who live in Atlanta have been following their custom of meeting informally for lunch at the Ansley Hotel on the first Saturday in each month. The Association has enrolled some forty or fifty members, about thirty of whom live in Atlanta. At the monthly luncheons at no time have there been less than a dozen members present, and there are frequently twenty or more. The classes from 1884 to 1913 are represented, and the hour is one of good fellowship, calling up traditions, stories old and new, and the whole being seasoned with a considerable amount of “gibing.” A number of alumni from other parts of the country have been present from time to time, among them being Smallwood, '05; Hashagan, '07; and Egerton, '09, the latter being in Atlanta with the South Carolina football team as coach. The Georgia Association is a regular Davidson organization, and every student and alumnus who is ever in Atlanta on the date of its meeting will be welcomed to a seat at the table. The Georgia alumni are as enthusiastic and as loyal as those elsewhere, and, with the lessening of the stringency of the S. I. A. A. rules, they hope soon to see some Davidson teams in this part of the country.

DR. HALL'S LECTURES FRIDAY.

Dr. Winifield S. Hall, medical teacher, writer, and lecturer of national reputation, is to speak here Friday afternoon at 2:15 and againat 7:15 in the evening on “Sex Hygiene” or “The Young Man's Problem.” Dr. Hall has delivered these lectures to thousands of men in the past few years in colleges, universities, churches, and Y. M. C. A.’s throughout the United States and Canada. The Y. M. C. A. has been very fortunate in securing Dr. Hall's services, and has been able to do so only through the services of Dr. Weatherford and Mr. Wilson, the Inter-state Secretary for North Carolina. A special tour of the South has been arranged for Dr. Hall, and by dint of much hard work Davidson was given a place in it. It is hoped that a large attendance will mark these meetings, as a good deal of expense has been incurred in arranging them. Dr. Hall will also speak to the boys of the High School on “From Youth Into Manhood” on Saturday morning.

FACULTY NOTES.
Dr. J. Moore McConnell, Dr. Martin, and Dr. Lingle last week attended the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina, at Hickory. Dr. J. W. MacConnell left last Friday night for New York, with a patient, whom he took to Saranac, in the Adirondacks, where the most famous tuberculosis hospital in America is located. Dr. MacConnell intended to stop over a day in New York City, and to return to the Hill Wednesday morning. Dr. Harding spent the latter part of last week in Charlotte, visiting his daughter, Mrs. McGeachy. The Davidson men who went to Winston-Salem were glad to have Dr. Arbuckle accompany them to the Carolina game. Dr. Lingle next Thursday will be in Salisbury, N.C. That afternoon he will address a club of women, on “Germany at Peace and at War.” Thursday night he will deliver a lecture to 150 men at the Second Presbyterian church, on the subject, “Touring in Rural France,” in which he will relate his travel last summer. Dr. Martin left Monday morning to attend the Synod of Georgia. For the next two weeks he will visit points in South Georgia and Florida. On November 12 he will attend the Synod of Florida, in Jacksonville.

“Yes,” said Mrs. Twickembury, “after the game my son received an innovation.” —Ex.

November 4, 1914

WANT ADS.
RATES:
One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. See A. CUSHMAN for Kodak finishing. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners
Anything in Felt or Leather Goods
FAW & CARTER
NO. 6 RUMPLE

WANTED—To hire you an auto, B. Mooney, Phone 40.

BUY your Hardware from R. B. Mooney, Davidson.

ALUMNI SUPPER IN COLUMBIA, S. C., NOV.
Plans are under way to gather together many of the alumni of South Carolina for a big supper in Columbia on the night after the Davidson-Carolina football game to be played in Columbia. Besides the many alumni in Columbia, there will be many there from all over the State to see Davidson’s wonderful team meet its old rivals. Short talks will be made by several prominent alumni, and it is the intention to launch a movement at that time for a State Alumni Association, with alumni chapters to be formed in various towns and cities in South Carolina.

Mr. McLain Rogers, class of '13, was a visitor here Monday.

When in Charlotte always stop at
HOTEL STONEWALL

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON
HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS
New Stock, Correct Styles
Just Received—A line of the latest styles of Windsorette ties at low prices. European war has not increased our prices.
Our Line of Regal $4, $4.50 and $5 Shoes are the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the war has raised the price?
See Our New Shipment of $2.00 and $3.00 hats.
See Our Line of Rain Coats, Sweaters, Shirts, Collars, Hosiery, Hats, Caps, Etc.

SAVE MONEY
We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The Swellest Styles of the Season. See us before you buy.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company