SENIOR SPEAKING. (Concluded from page 1)

tin introduced each of the speakers with a few timely remarks. W. A. McIlwaine, in his speech on “Organization,” brought out very forcibly the idea that there is a dangerous tendency at present in our organizations for social betterment to pay attention to the mere physical good and not the characters of the individual men whom it is desired to help. “The Present Need,” by P. D. Patrick, showed the pressing need for the teaching of the Bible in the public schools, and that this should be a vital part of our educational system.

Dr. Lingle was master of ceremonies on Saturday afternoon. “The Man Behind the Degree,” delivered by F. W. Price, was perhaps the feature of the afternoon. The different educational ideals of the present and the past were discussed in a masterful way. A degree should not be an end in itself, but should stand for a well-rounded manhood. N. Johnson, the class president, ended the exercises with a graceful and witty speech, in which he thanked those who had done so much to make the occasion a success. Immediately after this, the crowd adjourned to the gymnasium, where the championship game in basketball was played between the Seniors and Freshmen.

“THE GENERAL FRAT RECEPTION.”

A large crowd enjoyed the reception given by the fraternities on the Hill Saturday night. The halls that were open were, namely: Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha, Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, and Pi Kappa Phi. The Bachelors Club was open to visitors also. The couples journeyed from one hall to another and were welcomed into the halls by different members of the faculty and the members of the fraternities. Punch and sandwiches were served by attractive young ladies in the different halls. The reception lasted until about 12 o'clock and was keenly appreciated by all who attended.

The majority of the young lady visitors remained over until Monday and left on the morning trains amid the universal wailing of the assembled students. In fact, so great was the reluctance at parting that a goodly number of boys boarded the train and accompanied their friends part of the way homeward.

GRYPHON RECEPTION.

A pleasant event of the Senior Speaking was the reception given by the Order of the Gryphon, at their hall on last Friday evening. Refreshments, consisting of salad, sandwiches, and coffee, were served by four members of the Junior class, Messrs. Williams, Finley, Sparrow, and Morrison, who, disguised in ludicrous attire, were undergoing a part of the initiation into the order. Only members of the order and their invited ladies were present. They were Misses Barringer, Johnson, Young, Duffie, Hadley, Woods, Houston, Elliott, Wood, Burt, and Dickson; and Messrs. Carter, Bailey, Van Devanter, Marsh, Shaw, Rowland, Malloy, Faw, McDonald, Anderson, Kluttz, and Gilchrist; and Professor and Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

The following extract with reference to the Order of the Gryphon is taken from the last issue of the Annual: “An order composed of members of the Senior class of the college, whose object it is to draw closer the bonds of friendship between classmates; to abolish the differences and misunderstandings which frequently exist during the first three years; and to stimulate interest in the welfare of the college and do all that is possible for its upbuilding. It numbers among its members the leaders in almost every phase of college life, and it is the constant aim of these men to use their influence, both individually and as a body, for the good of the institution. A medal is offered each year by the Gryphon Order for the man who, in the estimation of a body of judges, has done most for the college during his course.”

The DAVIDSONIAN. December 2, 1914

DAVIDSON ENDS SEASON.

(Concluded from page 1)

While in Charlotte, behind Davidson's goal line, netted Wake Forest their touchdown. Billings failed to kick goal. Score, Wake Forest 4, Davidson 0. Nothing unusual happened in the third quarter. One of the prettiest plays of the game was executed, however, when R. Walker received a forward pass in the midst of several Baptists which netted Davidson 10 yards. Davidson kept the ball in her possession most of the time in this quarter, but was unable to cross the well-guarded goal line of Wake Forest. In the fourth quarter, Davidson “came back” with “the old-time pep” and fight in her eyes. During the six minutes of play in this quarter, the ball was always in Davidson's possession, the Red and Blacks making theirrequired distance every time. The Baptists were perfectly helpless against the awful attack of the revived Presbyterians. The steady march down the field was progressing when Black was given the ball, and ran 35 yards for Davidson’s winning touchdown. McKinnon kicked goal, and the score stood 7-6. With nine minutes left to play, Wake Forest protested the touchdown as illegal, and when Referee Sampson upheld Davidson's right to victory, the Wake Forest players refused to continue playing, and the game was called.

Line-up:
Davidson. Position. W. Forest.
White ................. Abernathy
McKinnon ............ Harris
Walker, R. ........... Stallings
VanDevanter ........ Powe
Anderson ............ Moore (C)
Brayton .............. Parker
Black ................. Witherington
Walker, R. ........... Trust
McKinnon ........... Riddick
Keesler ............... Billings

Subs for Davidson: Lawson for Keesler, Laird for Walker, Keesler for Lawson, Lawson for Black, Black for Lawson.
Subs for Wake Forest: Pace for Trust, Beam for Trust, Dixon for Stallings.

Officials: Sampson, Referee; Rich, Umpire; Peden, Head Linesman; Dunn and Moore, Time Keepers.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE.

Saturday, 12th—Fresh. Bible; Soph. Greek, Geology; Sen. Analyt. Chemistry; Sen. History; Jr. Biology; Jr. French; Astronomy.
Monday, 14th (afternoon)—Sen. Economics.
Tuesday, 15th—Fresh. Latin, Soph. English; Jr. Applied Math; Sen. Organic Chemistry; Sen. Law.
Wednesday, 16th—Soph. Chemistry; Jr. Greek; Sen. Greek; Jr. Math.; Fresh. German; Greek (A) Sen. German; Sen. Spanish.
Thursday, 17th—Fresh. Math.; Jr. Physics; Jr. Latin; Sen. Latin; Sen. Philosophy.
Friday, 18th—Fresh. History; Soph. Latin; Jr. Public Speaking; Jr. German; Sen. English.
Saturday, 19th—Jr. Philosophy; Jr. Chemistry; Sen. Physics; Soph. Physics.
Monday, 21st (afternoon)—Fresh. Chemistry; Soph. Math; Sen. Applied Math.; Sen. Education; Fresh. Physics.
Tuesday, 22nd—Soph. Biology; Jr. History; Sen. French; Sen. Math.; Sen. Political Science.
Wednesday, 23rd—Fresh. English; Soph. Bible; Senior Bible; Junior Economics.

No recitations on Friday, December 11. All conflicts must be reported in writing to the Professors interested within forty-eight hours after the schedule is published, for arrangement. Sub-Fresh. classes will stand examinations on same days as regular Fresh. classes in the same subjects.

“Doctor” R. W. Guthrie (’14) is now attending the School of Journalism of Columbia University, in New York City. He reports a great abundance of hard work, which is full of interest.

TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day Till 12 P. M.
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte

SLOAN’S White Drug Co.
Prescriptions Carefully compounded by registered pharmacists. We are sales agents for Norris Exquisite Candies. We have a full line of Tobacco. COME TO SEE US. Satisfied Customers are our Best Advertisement.

W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College Representative

SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

All individual pictures for the Annual must be made again. Be sure to have yours made promptly. Mr. Moose, the photographer, will be in the library room Dec. 7 and 8.

HAVE YOU EVER NOTICED that in any game where a ball is used in a competitive way, that the official ball always bears this trade-mark, whether it be FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL, INDOOR BALL, LACROSSE, BASEBALL or any other athletic game? There must be a reason for this universal adoption by the leading organizations connected with sports, and there is a reason—no one can make them as good. The same argument applies to all things athletic. CATALOGUE ON REQUEST
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
G. A. MULLEN, Agent

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
N.C.