A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR

Peace Contest Marked by Splendid Orations
Norman Johnson is Winner---J. G. Patton, Alternate.

Last Saturday night at 7 o'clock the Annual Peace Contest, to select a representative for Davidson at the State Contest,
was held in Shearer Hall. Dr. J. M. McConnell, in introducing the speakers, gave an interesting discussion of the causes
of war and some of the remedies. Music for the occasion was furnished by the Orchestra and was enjoyed by
the large audience present.

The speeches showed careful preparation and were much above the average. This made the contest a close one, and it
was not until the judges rendered their decision that the name of the winner was known with certainty. Norman Johnson
was declared the winner, with J. G. Patton as alternate. Mr. Johnson's subject was “Peace Heroic,” and that of Mr.
Patton “The Danger of the Present Peace Movement.” The other speakers and their subjects were: H. Morrison, “Disarmament, Love, Peace”;
N. P. Farrior, “A Call to Unison”; D. M. McGeachy, “The Principle of Peace”; J. B. Arrowood, “Vanity of Vanities”;
and R. L. Smith, “The Pure Press.”

The winner of this contest will represent Davidson in the State Contest, before the Legislature, on January 20, in Raleigh,
at which the colleges of the whole State will be represented. In this State contest, there is a prize of
$75 for the winner, and one of $50 for the second-best speaker. The winner of this contest will also take
part in the contest for the South Atlantic group, which will occur in the latter part of April or the
first week of May. It will be remembered that in last year's State Contest, Davidson's representative, R. L. L. Pimm,
Jr., won the second prize. This year Davidson has another good representative and is confident of making a splendid record
in the coming contest.

ALUMNI AND LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS COMMENDED

The Faculty, at a recent meeting, passed the following resolution:

“Resolved, That the Faculty of Davidson College, realizing the great helpfulness to them, in their efforts to serve the College,
of an enthusiastic co-operation on the part of the alumni and friends of the institution, wish to express their appreciation
of the fine spirit manifested and assistance extended by the Alumni Athletic Association and friends of Davidson in aiding the
College athletics during the present term.

“It is the Faculty’s opinion that never were a season's athletics better managed, nor with better results, both as to
the victories won and proper balance between athletics and class work.”

BASEBALL COACH NOT YET SELECTED

On account of a deadlock in the executive committee of the Alumni Athletic Association, and the lack of money, a
baseball coach to help Coach Fetzer has not been decided upon. However, they expect to send another man out on
the road to help Mr. Bum Pharr, who is traveling and soliciting funds for the Association, at an early date.
So after their next meeting, they will be able to sign a contract with some competent coach to help Fetzer
and to put out a winning team for Davidson.

TOWN HAPPENINGS

The bazaar which is to be held under the auspices of the Civic League will begin on Tuesday afternoon, December
15. There will be a Christmas tree and entertainment given by the Methodist Sunday school either on Christmas day or
the day before. Practice for the event has already started.

Mrs. M. H. Goodrum, who has been visiting her son at High Point, N.C., returned to her home Friday. Miss
Minnie Cranford motored up from Charlotte to spend Sunday with her parents here. The Cornelius Baptist church has just received
new seats, which will be installed this week. Miss Laura Wood, who has been visiting Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
McConnell for the past two weeks, returned to her home in Charlottesville Tuesday. The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs.
C. I. Grey, Thursday, the subject being Mary Antin. Mrs. Harding, who has been visiting in Charlotte for the past
three weeks, has returned home. Mrs. Minter and three sons returned Wednesday from a visit to relatives in Laurens, S.
C. Mrs. C. H. Monroe, of Hickory, is visiting at the home of her daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglass. Mrs.
H. L. Smith was delightfully entertained by Prof. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell last Friday night. There will be a
play given by the children of the Presbyterian Sunday school on Christmas Eve in connection with the Christmas tree. Mrs.
G. P. Justice, of Charlotte, has been visiting her mother, Mrs. M. H. Goodrum.

Captain-elect McKinnon, Scanlon, and Dr. Cox Awarded

The football letters were awarded in chapel last Wednesday morning to the Varsity and to the men who had been
most faithful in helping put out a winning team. As everyone knows, this season was one of the most successful
in many years.years, and much of the credit goes to the faithful Scrubs, who spur the Varsity every day. Captain
Howell was awarded a "D" with two stars for his splendid work on the gridiron this year, while McKinnon (captain-elect
for next year), Anderson, Crayton, and Cosine Walker were awarded "D's" with one star, this being their second year on
the Varsity. The other men who received "D's" were: Van DeVanter, Laird, Keesler, Walker, R. Black, and White, and all
of them deserve much credit for the fine working of the Red and Black Machine. Vanaper Klutz was given a
block "D" with a bar under it for his efficient handling of the financial side of the Varsity. "D" Cos
were awarded to the Varsity subs and the Scrubs in appreciation of their work in helping the Varsity. The men
to whom these monograms were awarded are: McKay, Austin, Bullock, Gray, Ansley, Somerville, Fewell, Lawson, Savad, Will Law, Whitesides, Adam,
Critz, Watkins, Williams, Patsley, and Pharr. These men are depended upon to help put out another winning team for Davidson
next year. The men who were so fortunate as to be awarded the privilege of wearing the "D" were duly
initiated into the Wearers of the "D" organization on last Wednesday night. This is an organization of all "D" men
in the three major sports—football, baseball, and track.

DR. ARBUCKLE ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.
Last Thursday night Dr. H. B. Arbuckle addressed one of the largest audiences ever assembled at the regular Y. M.
C. A. meeting. Dr. Arbuckle took his theme from Proverbs 30:24-28. With telling earnestness and power, Dr. Arbuckle drove home
a message on "The Essentials of Christian Character." Altogether, this was one of the most powerful addresses ever given at
Davidson.

NO. 14 Asheville High Wins Western Championship
Defeats Huntersville 6 to 0 In Well Played Game.
In a snappy, well-fought battle on Sprunt Athletic Field, Asheville High School defeated Huntersville High School by a score of
6-0. This game was to decide the High School football championship for Western North Carolina, and the successful team will
play Raleigh High School in Chapel Hill for the State championship. The interest of the Davidson student body was intense,
and yells were frequently given for both teams. A goodly number from Huntersville also witnessed the contest. The Asheville lads
have a hard fight in store for them when they meet Raleigh, but if they develop the same snap and
pep with the rush which they exhibited during the first quarter, Raleigh will more than have her hands full. Huntersville
is a steady, well-rounded team, and twice pushed Asheville to the twenty-yard line. Twice the opportunities for scoring were lost
when field goals went wild. For Asheville, the work of Randolph deserves special mention. The big halfback tore through the
line, circled the ends, and at all times showed himself master of the situation. For Huntersville, the work of Ranson
at quarter was of the stellar nature. The little quarter ran the team well and several times gained considerably around
Asheville ends.

Huntersville won the toss and chose to kick. Asheville returned the ball to the center of the field. On a
series of well-executed passes and line bucks, Asheville crossed the goal line for the first touchdown within the first four
minutes of play. Failed to kick goal. Asheville kicked to Huntersville, who returned the ball to the 30-yard line. On
line bucks and end runs, the ball was steadily advanced; on the next play, Randolph broke through the line and
downed Cashion for a loss of ten yards. Asheville intercepted a forward pass. On an end run, Randolph gained 20
yards. Asheville failed to make downs on line plays. Huntersville’s attempt at a forward pass failed. Ranson went through the
line for 10 yards; on the next play, he gained eight more. A series of line plays carried the ball
to Asheville’s 35-yard line. A forward pass and end run advanced the ball to the 15-yard line. End of quarter.
Score: Asheville 6, Huntersville 0.

Second quarter: Rodgers gained 7 yards for Huntersville on a couple of line bucks. Asheville recovered Rodgers’ fumble. End run
gains 7 yards. Forward pass failed and Asheville punted, Huntersville returning 20. Forward pass and end run gained 6 yards
for Huntersville. Huntersville punted and Asheville downed in tracks. Randolph forward pass. Huntersville received the ball on downs. Huntersville penalized
5 yards for off-side. Ranson gained 5 yards. Forward pass failed and Asheville received the ball on Huntersville’s failure to
gain. Asheville advanced the ball for 12 yards on line play and end run. End of half. Score: Huntersville 0,
Asheville 6.

Second half: Asheville kicked to the 35-yard line; gained 10 yards on line plays and end runs. Huntersville punted; Asheville
returning 10 yards. End runs and line plunges by Randolph gained 30 yards. Ball went over. Forward pass failed. Two
plays through the line failed.

(Continued on page 4)

Have That Suit Dry Cleaned Before Christmas. See W. Y. Sayad, No. 7 Ch.
