DAVIDSON WINS FROM BAPTISTS. (Concluded from page 1)

McKinnon started out to catch, that being the first time he had received Bill Osteen’s benders. Bill had so much
stuff that afternoon that McKinnon, never having caught him before, was handicapped. Davidson scored one in the first, also another
in the second. In the fourth, a flue must have blown out of the “machine”—Wake Forest got three men on
and two of these scored on passed balls by the catcher. Two others scored on bunts, which should easily have
been fielded, and Cuthrell drove the fifth run in on a three-bagger to the right garden. In the fifth, Wake
Forest scored one more. In Davidson's half of the eighth, it looked for a while as if the lead would
be overcome when two men were registered, and there were more in sight, but one of the Baptists broke up
a hit. In the ninth, Trust, of the Baptists, hit one to center field for four bases which Stough could
easily have pulled down had not the wind carried it about three feet over his head. For Davidson, Christy started
the last of the ninth off with a three-bagger, and the chances of still winning the game looked very prosperous.
Kluttz, next up, hit one over the right fielder’s head. Christy scored, and the umpire called Kluttz out on a
close decision at third. The next two popped out. The final score was 7 to 3 in favor of Wake
Forest. Osteen pitched a good game, and if the infield had not had an “off day” in just one inning,
the victory would have been different. However, such an inning will happen to the best of teams, for even the
“Giants” and “Athletics” have them sometimes. The result is not blamed on the umpire, but several times he “stung” the
“Red and Blacks,” and was very much off on balls and strikes. The feature of the game for Wake Forest
was the stabbing of a hit by Christenbury's Trust in center field which was good for three sacks. Stringfield at
third played a good game. The score by innings: R H E Wake Forest 000 510 001—7 8 6 Davidson
110 000 021—5 9 5 Batteries: Osteen, McKinnon and Keesler, S. R.; Cuthrell and Daniel. Time, 1:50. Umpire, McCall.

SENIORS WIN AGAIN. Monday morning in a game full of runs, hits, errors, phenomenal plays, “et cetera,” the Seniors won
over the Sophs by a score of 15 to 9. The game was a hitting feast and a “merry-go-round” from
start to finish. The feature of the game was a one-hand catch by Hill for the Sophs, and a catch
by “Country” Marsh for the Seniors. At the end of the 7th, the game was called. The score by innings:
R H E Seniors 600 840 0—15 14 7 Sophs 230 210 3—9 9 Batteries: Haltiwanger and Scrunt; Cassion, Copeland
and Moore and Williamson.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT. On Monday, May 8, there is to be a Tennis Tournament in Charlotte, and all the prominent colleges
of the two Carolinas will be on hand. The meet will be held on the Country Club tennis courts of
the Queen City. The tennis teams from the University of South Carolina, Clemson, University of North Carolina, Trinity, and other
colleges will be present. Cranford and Crawford are contemplating going down, and they should bring back several of the “cups”
and prizes which are being offered. They have been getting in shape for the past week, and should make a
very creditable showing for “old” D.C.

In Columbia on the baseball trip, “Power House” Andy, being on Main Street early one morning after it had been
sprinkled, asked someone why it was when it rained there it didn’t wet anything but the streets.

The DAVIDSONIAN.

MERCHANT OF VENICE GREAT SUCCESS. (Concluded from page 1)

and the courtroom becomes the scene of a double wedding.

Cast of Characters
The Mayor of Davidson .. John Gillespie
Antonio, a Senior, Captain of the Davidson FootBall Team . .. Edward Johnston
Bassanio, his friend and Suitor to Portia .. .. .. .. Gilbert Morrison
Gratiano, another friend . .. Rupert McGregor
Shylock, a Wealthy gambler .. . LeRoy Mullen
Tubal, his friend and Captain of the Wake Forest Foot Ball team .. .. . Douglas Brown
Launcelot Gobbo, a servant to Shylock .. .. Fred Manning
Prof. Sweigenhangenblumenheimer .. Prof. C. Wunder .. Carl Cathy
Caroline Hood .. Anne Payne
Policeman .. Portia, a rich heiress .. Nerissa, a friend .. Jessica, Shylock’s ward .. Mary Parks Grey
Miss Abbie Threedice, a teacher .. Catherine Worth
Polly, Portia’s maid .. Evelyn England
Antonio's mother .. Nertie Christenbury
Mrs. Gobbo, Launcelot’s mother .. Winifred Potts

Chorus — Misses Mayme Johnston, Catherine Potts, Bertie Christenbury, Evelyn England, Florence Hope, Lillian Houston, Elizabeth Cranford, Willie Henderson, Irene
Sanford.
Messrs. Reid Cranford, Bob Harding, Craighead Alexander, Robert Alexander, Craighead Young, Ted Cashion, Sam Brady, Roy Lothery, James Foster, and
Lamont Fields.

Soloist — C. W. Ansley.

Special mention should be made of the charming and naive acting of Miss Mary Parks Grey, and of the work
of Messrs. Johnston and McGregor, which was consistent throughout, and of Morrison, who was at his best in the Examination
scene. No opportunity was overlooked to introduce well-directed local hits, which were received by the audience with keen appreciation. Summarizing
in one brief sentence, it can well be said that in recent years at least, this is by far the
best play of its kind that has ever been presented to a Davidson audience.

VARSITY BATTING AVERAGES TO DATE.
AB H PC
Brown .. .. 2 8 388
Kluttz .. .. 640 18 366
Stough .. .. 48 16 333
Anderson .. .. 3 4 286
Currie .. .. 14 4 286
Crayton .. 48 11 244
Christenbury .. 48 10 208
Osteen .. 3 2 182
Elliott .. 18 3 169
Walker .. 26 4 153
Keesler, S. R. .. 14 2 143
Withrington .. 19 2 105
Somerville, T. H. .. 4 2 87
Watkins .. 24 4 167
380 72 189

STATEMENT.
The following is a statement of the finances of the baseball season to date:
The six games played on the home grounds show a net loss of:
Work on grounds, incidentals, etc. .. $156.45
Balls .. $25.25
$85.00
$266.70

The games away from home show a net profit of .. $182.
Showing a deficit of .. $83.95
Z. V. Roberson, Mgr.

GUILFORD.
On April 4, Hamlet was presented at Guilford by the Sock and Buskin Dramatic Club, a student organization.

April 29, 1914

CHARLOTTE HARDWARE CO.
30 EAST TRADE STREET

While in Charlotte VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers

SPORTING GOODS and HARDWARE of every description
EAST TRADE ST.
“At The Sign of The Big Key”

SPECIAL WHILE THEY LAST
Durham Duplex Razor and large stick of SHAVING SOAP for 35 cts.
Bowen’s Drug Store
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phones 203 & 459

EAT AT FRAZIER'S CAFE

Let us show you our line of GOODS
While in Charlotte go to Ed. Mellon Co.
Complete Line of Gents’ Furnishings
Ratines, Corduroys; and a full line of Staple Goods. Torchon Laces, 5¢. Val. Lace and Insertions to match. Flouncings and
Allovers in both Embroideries and Lace.
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Represented by PAYNE & CARSON
Hand in our tickets with each purchase

GENTLEMEN!
R. J. SHELTON
For your Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON

TONSORIAL WORK
Stop at First Door Below Post Office
Electric fan to keep you cool while waiting
RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop.
