ws and finished second. We were strong.

DAVIDSON MEN AT UNION SEMINARY.

Davidson Represented in all the Activities.

The following letter has been received from W. S. Golden ('13), now at Union Seminary, Richmond:

“Davidson men at Union Seminary welcome with interest and pride, the first issue of the Davidsonian. Its neat and attractive
appearance would do credit to any institution. The appearance of cheapness, so common in most college weeklies, is delightfully absent.
The news is told interestingly and attractively. The mail will bring no publication to the Seminary which will be more
welcome to the Davidson contingent than this weekly batch of news, and always interesting news.

We are glad indeed to learn that Dr. Sentelle will preach the Baccalaureate Sermon to the Seminary this year. Many
of the Davidson Alumni have not had the opportunity to see Dr. Sentelle in some time, and the mere privilege
of meeting him again will be a treat. Of course, it goes without saying that his sermon will be well
worth hearing. Dr. Sentelle will receive a warm welcome.

At a recent meeting of the student body, Mr. T. K. Currie was elected president of the student body for
the next year, succeeding Mr. John L. Fairley, another Davidson Alumnus.

There has recently been organized in the Seminary a society for the cultivation of study and debate on live, and
timely religious questions. The society has been named in honor of our late beloved Professor of Theology, Dr. Strickler, as
“The Givens B. Strickler Society.” The organization is largely due to the untiring efforts of Mr. C. F. Arrowood ('09).
Mr. O. E. Buckholtz ('09) was elected the first president. Mr. C. B. Craig ('11), has been elected Vice-president for
the coming year.

The first debate was held March 30th, and was in every way a success. The prospects for the new Society
are bright, and it bids fair to fill a long-felt need.

The Seminary has been represented in a basketball league composed of the strongest teams in the city this winter. We
were contenders for first until one of the strongest men on the team, Mr. J. L. Hughes (V. P. I.),
was compelled to give up the game for the balance of the season on account of injuries. Two Davidson men
who were regular members of the team and played splendid ball were J. L. Fairley and J. H. Brady ('12).
T. H. Dimmock ('10) and H. G. Bedinger ('11) were valuable substitutes.

The baseball season is with us. The Seminary team has played several games and while most of the games have
been lost, the team has made a very good showing considering the short time available for practice in the afternoons.
R. Lacy is captain of the team, and T. K. Currie is playing a nice game at first.

Dr. James Stalker, of Scotland, is here for ten days, delivering a course of lectures on the James Sprunt Foundation.
His subject is, “Religious Psychology, in the Pulpit and in the Pew.” The opening lecture was attended by a large
and appreciative audience.

ALUMNI NOTES.

W. C. Jamison, Kingston, N. C.
Locke White, '13, is teaching at McCallie’s School, in Chattanooga, Tenn.
N. M. Fleming, Jr., '12, is teaching at Mt. Ulla, N. C.
L. H. Wilkinson, '13, is teaching at Concord.
Crocheron, '12, is teaching at a military school in Kentucky.
J. H. Gentry, '13, has recently been appointed postmaster at Sparta, N.C.
W. D. Ratchford, '09, is Pastor of Presbyterian church at Cross Hill, S. C.
T. M. Stevenson, '12, is studying law at University of S. C.
J. A. Allen, Jr., '11, has completed his law course and is practicing law in South Carolina.

THE ALUMNI AND COMMENCEMENT.

April 22, 1914

DAVIDSON GRADUATE, NOTED LEGAL AUTHOR.

President Martin Urges Old Davidson Men to Return May 16.

The Classes of 1909, 1904, 1899, and others running back by periods of five years, together with all classes since
1909, are cordially invited and expected to come to Commencement this year. Of course, all former students will be cordially
welcomed. I suggest that Class Presidents and other officers take the matter up with their class members and arrange as
large a reunion as possible. This copy of The Davidsonian goes to all members of the above-named classes as far
as possible. If we are informed in time we will try to have furnished rooms in the dormitories and group
classes together. The class of 1909 has already applied for space. The second and third floors of Georgia Dorm will
be vacant and ready for the alumni. If you let us know in time and more room is needed, it
will be provided. Both the College and the Student-body will welcome the “old boys” back to the campus and do
everything possible to make you comfortable and have you enjoy yourselves!

Commencement begins this year with a reunion of the Literary Societies on Saturday evening, May 16, and closes with the
graduating exercises on Tuesday evening, the 19th. Come on Saturday and stay through. Hear our great Secretary of the Navy,
Hon. Josephus Daniels, at noon, Monday. Write the College office and keep us posted. We will do our best to
help in all arrangements.

Cordially and fraternally yours,
Wm. J. Martin.

PROMINENT DAVIDSON ALUMNI.

In governmental circles are Congressman J. W. Faison, of the Fifth North Carolina District, and Mr. Banks, who is Secretary
Daniel’s private secretary and right-hand man. Ex-Governor Glenn was a member of the class of '77. After retiring from the
governor's chair, Mr. Glenn made a tour of the South speaking in the interest of Home Missions. Lately, he has
accepted a position on the International Boundary Commission.

In the field of education, Davidson men are exceedingly prominent. Dr. W. W. Moore, of Union Theological Seminary; Dr. T.
H. Whaling, ofColumbia Theological Seminary; Dr. D. M. Douglas, of P. C. of S. C.; Dr. L. Smith, of Washington
and Lee, and Dr. W. J. Martin, of Davidson, are among the college presidents that hold a Davidson diploma. Other
Davidson men of prominence in this field are Dr. Axon, of Princeton; Dr. E. B. McGilvary, of the University of
Wisconsin; Dr. Egleston, of Austin College; Dr. J. M. Pharr, of the University of Florida; Dr. Alphonso C. Smith, of
the University of Virginia; Dr. W. G. Perry, of Georgia Tech, and Drs. English and Lingle, of Union Seminary, besides
Prof. Joseph Maclean, of Agnes Scott, who is one of the foremost musicians in the South.

As Davidson is a Church institution, her men would be expected to have a prominent place in Church affairs, which
is indeed the case. One-half of the men now entering the ministry in the Southern Presbyterian Church are Davidson men,
and this college is largely represented on the faculties of our Seminaries. Some of the most prominent Davidson alumni in
this field are Dr. J. F. Cannon, of the Westminster church, St. Louis, who is also ex-moderator of the Northern
General Assembly; Dr. W. B. Jennings, of the First Presbyterian church, of Germantown, Pa.; Dr. W. S. Plumber Bryan, of
the Church of the Covenant, Chicago, and Dr. Egbert W. Smith, Secretary of Foreign Missions in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Mr. William Mack, who graduated from Davidson in '83, with second honor, and the degrees of A.B. and M.A., is
recognized the country over as an authority in law. He is the author of what lawyers refer to as “C
Y C,” otherwise known as “Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure.” This work has become a standard authority among the legal
profession. There are 40 volumes of the “Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure” already published, which are an enduring testimonial of
his skill and industry. The Davidson Library is grateful to Mr. Mack; for recently he presented his Alma Mater a
set of his works, valued at $300.

TO THE ALUMNI.

The time for gathering new men for next fall has come. We do all in the office here we can
to secure the right sort of men for the College, but we must and do depend largely on our old
men and our friends to secure the best type of new men for us. Let me suggest to every Alumnus
to try within the next three months to secure at least one good recruit for our Freshman Class. Lay yourself
out to secure one well-prepared student, of high moral character, and earnestness of purpose, and send him to Davidson as
your representative, to take your place in the old college and receive its advantages.

Let us make the next Freshman Class the best in preparation, purpose, and character, that the College has ever yet
welcomed. Everyone will have to help if we do this, for we have had fine classes in the past. Start
out for these men now, before the schools close and pupils and teachers scatter for the summer. Let them come
from far and near. Davidson serves the whole South and Christian education generally. Instill in all matriculates the purpose to
succeed, to take a straight degree course, and stick to it till his diploma is won. Will not all the
Alumni join us in this effort? My ambition for the college is efficiency rather than size, but we want fully
as many men as we have this year. Let us all go to work at once in the interest of
Davidson College.

Yours in the service of the old College,
Wm. J. Martin.

ALUMNI NOTES.

Davidson is represented on the faculty of Agnes Scott College, by three men, Prof. Joseph Maclean, Head of the department
of Music; Dr. J. S. Guy, Professor of Chemistry, and Dr. W. T. Stukes, Professor of Bible. Certainly, they should
have no hard feelings toward us for taking one man from their faculty this year.

A good many letters have been received from the alumni, following the issue of the DAVIDSONIAN. Below are extracts from
some of them.

“The first issue of the DAVIDSONIAN was received some days ago, and I was very glad indeed to get it.
The paper is a little beam, and I hope you will be able to keep it up to the place
you have started with it.”

“I was delighted to see in The Charlotte Observer that Davidson was at last to have a weekly paper. I
have wished for a Davidson paper many times this year. I think it will do more than any other one
thing to keep the alumni interested in the school.”

“I hope the paper will be a success, and it will give me great pleasure to help any undertaking, as
an Alumnus, of Davidson College.”

Others have said, “Have my name put on your mailing list for this and next year.” Such statements as these
speak for themselves.

It's Like Substituting a Varsity Man for a Scrub.

What is? Buying a Moore’s Non-leakable Fountain Pen when you have been using another make. That scrub man tries hard
but he can't fill the gap.

GET A MOORE'S IT WON'T LEAK

G. EDGERTON 13 Chambers

GIVE J.H. WERTZ The Fancy Grocer a trial and BE CONVINCED that he is the leader in Low Prices

National Biscuit Co.’s Goods A Specialty Fresh Fruits Always on Hand

Have your measure taken for That New Suit Today. Call on Guthrie, Strauss Bros.’ Agent at No. 40 Chambers “Our
tape line is ready for you”

NOW IS THE TIME.

Begin the new month with The Statesville Steam Laundry. You'll want it done right for Commencement and home-going. See me
and begin the last month right.

Wm. E. WILLIAMS, Agent
