The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Prominent Davidson Citizen Passes Away

Mr. J. B. Cornelius died Saturday, October 24, at his home in Cornelius, being in his eighty-second year. He has been one of the most prominent men of the county for the last fifty years and was highly respected by all the people in the community. Mr. Cornelius was born in 1833 on his father's farm, Iredell County, some ten miles from Davidson. His parents, Jesse and Margaret, never moved from the old homestead, and in 1888, their son, the deceased, began cotton manufacturing at Cornelius with Mr. R. J. Stough. Later Charles Johnson, joining with these two, made a strong trio who made this venture at a most opportune time, when milling was most profitable. Mr. Cornelius has lived in Davidson for a number of years and was always a kind friend and neighbor, a man of indomitable energy, of marked intelligence, considering opportunities, but always very regretful of an incomplete education. He was a modest man of strong convictions and undoubted integrity. A devoted member of the Methodist church, though liberal in his views toward other denominations. He was very liberal in his gifts to institutions of his own Church, and his views in this respect are expressed by his following statement: “The institutions in my own Church need help—the girls and women especially—educate the women for mothers to make the home for the men.” So ever feeling the responsibility for the wealth God had given him, he donated $10,000 to the Children’s Home in Winston, $22,000 to the Davenport College in Lenoir, later donating the remainder of his entire wealth to this latter institution. Mr. Cornelius was buried on Saturday, at 3 p.m. at Mt. Zion M. E. Church, Cornelius. A great host of friends of the deceased attended this funeral, and out of respect all business establishments were closed. Rev. C. M. Pickens conducted the services, and among those attending from a distance were Dr. J. B. Cravens, President of Davenport; Mr. W. L. Sherrill, of Davenport College; Rev. Mr. Marr, of Trinity, and Rev. I. Myres, of Mooresville, all of whom spoke appreciative words of the deceased. There were a great number of floral offerings from the many friends.

TOWN ITEMS.

Mrs. Thos. L. Lingle, chairman of the Social Service Department of the North Carolina Federation of Women’s Clubs, has returned after giving a number of talks throughout the State. Last Tuesday afternoon Mrs. Lingle addressed the Women’s Club of Charlotte, at the home of Mrs. Eugene Reilley, in Dilworth. On Wednesday, at the invitation of the High Point Women’s Club, she addressed a large gathering at the Elks’ Hall, speaking on woman's share in social service. Mrs. Lingle has recently been elected vice-chairman of the same department of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. This organization holds its next regular meeting at Portland, Oregon.

The Davidson High School football squad is expecting to meet the High School of Winston-Salem at that city on Thanksgiving.

Dr. J. P. Monroe, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Thursday.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY.

BASKETBALL.

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., October 28, 1914.

Davidson Defeats Citadel

Red and Black Machine In Gruelling Contest 16-0 Meets North Carolina

The strong Citadel eleven from South Carolina, flushed with a string of early victories, and confident of success after holding the University of Georgia to two touchdowns, met the Davidson Red and Black Machine in Charlotte last Saturday and was defeated by the decisive score of 16-0. The game was the first staged by the Charlotte Athletic Association, and was excellently managed. Despite the soggy condition of the field, both teams put up a fast game. The Citadel team, although overpowered, fought gamely to the sound of the last whistle. The most remarkable feature of the game, prominent also in the Clemson game, was the superior endurance of the Red and Blacks over their opponents. They appeared as fresh or even fresher, in the last quarter, than in the first.

Davidson's two touchdowns came as a result of a recovered fumble in the first quarter and of straight football in the last quarter. McKinnon kicked a field goal in the second quarter. At no time during the game was Davidson's goal in danger. The Citadel resorted in the last half heavily to forward passes and punting.

For Davidson, McKinnon’s playing was the stellar feature. The big fullback was in every play. On defense, time after time, he broke through the line, and on offense, he always carried the ball for long gains. His punting was superb and his kick from placement split the goal posts wide. Walker, Laird, Black, and Keesler each played a fine game in the backfield. The whole line played brilliantly, with Crayton, Howell, and White starring.

Keesler returned punts in a spectacular manner. For Citadel, Weeks played almost the entire game—punting, passing, running with the ball, and tackling, until he fell at the end of the game from sheer exhaustion. His running mate, Folger, was out of the game, giving Weeks more than his share; but he played brilliantly and gamely to the very end. Cogswell, James, and Wallace, in the backfield, and Hudgins, Sheppard, and Jeffors, in the line, played a good game.

First quarter: McKinnon kicked to the ten-yard line. Weeks returned ball fifteen yards. Citadel was forced to kick. Davidson kicked back to Citadel's thirty-yard line. After four minutes of play, on a fake kick formation, left halfback Weeks got the ball and on slow work, in passing a forward pass, was tackled and stumbled. White, for Davidson, recovered the ball and with beautiful interference, ran twenty-five yards for a touchdown. Davidson failed to kick goal. After the next kickoff, Citadel advanced the ball twenty yards, but was penalized, and was forced to kick again. After two plays McKinnon kicked fifty-five yards behind Citadel’s goal line. The ball was see-sawed back and forth.

Second quarter: Davidson gained possession of the ball and after a few minutes of play, McKinnon wrapped a beautiful kick from placement for thirty-five yards. The feature tackle of the afternoon was a great play. Davidson (Continued on page 4)There will be no chapel exercises before breakfast. Recitations will suspend at 11:00 a.m. and at 11:15 the chapel bell will ring for the assembly of the students in Shearer Hall. The feature of the morning's program will be an address by Henry A. Sheppard, M.A., LL.D., class of '62, and now residing in Baltimore. His subject will be Gen. D. H. Hill, who from 1853-4 was professor of Mathematics and Philosophy, and from 1855-8 professor of Mathematics and Civil Engineering at Davidson. His body lies in the Davidson cemetery. Dr. Sheppard is a distinguished man of letters, being an authority on the subject and the author of several books, one of them a life of Robert E. Lee. He is now preparing a work on Gen. D. H. Hill.

In a letter, Dr. Sheppard expressed himself as very anxious to see the college again, after not visiting it since August 1872. The college has undergone many great changes since he entered in 1858.

The football practice has been intense. Their present team is light and they have been playing fast ball, the work of Reese and Nesbet being especially noticeable. In the Senior-Junior game, the former won by the score of 21 to 0. The game was featured by rough playing on both sides, and it can be classed as football more than basketball. The Seniors have a well-coached team and are playing fast ball; the work of McDonald at forward is fast and snappy. The Juniors have so far had hard luck and have not seemed to play up to their standard. The season, however, is only half over, and the Junior team is determined to come back for the remainder of the series. The work of Perry, Hoyt, and Patton is very good.

The standing of the teams is as follows:
Won. Lost. Pct.
Freshmen 2 0 1.000
Seniors 2 1 .750
Sophomores 1 2 .250
Juniors 0 2 .000

The Freshmen have shown up better than any of the other teams. They have the heaviest team and play well together. Hengeveld, Howell, and Worth have been playing star ball. The Sophomores are very much handicapped by not having Sun.

Mrs. A. B. Reese, Miss Margaret Reese, Mrs. J. P. Patton, and Mrs. C. M. Carson motored up Wednesday from Charlotte.

Mr. Gus Leezer, of Mooresville, spent Sunday here.

The White Drug Company, whose new store has been just recently completed, is now open and ready for business, with C. C. Goodrum as manager.

Davidson will face the heavy and powerful University of North Carolina eleven in the hardest game of the season next Saturday, October 31, at Winston-Salem. In playing North Carolina, Davidson is going up against big odds. North Carolina has the best team in years. Not only is it splendidly trained by one of the best coaching staffs in the South, but it has shown by the scores it has run up against opposing colleges. The Atlanta Constitution, in speaking of Carolina’s team, says: "They have a team that looks far superior to any team that has performed in Atlanta for the last six or seven years." In the Vanderbilt game, no appreciable gains were made by the Commodores through the "Tar Heels" line. There are three "two hundred-pounders" in the line. Vandy, at center, is a star, both on offensive and defensive. The backfield, though very speedy, hardly averages over 150 pounds to the man. Taylor at halfback, and Parker at fullback, show to the best advantage here, both starring in offensive work. Taylor is a good sidestepper and fast runner.

Carolina's lineup will probably be as follows: Homewood, right end; Gay, right guard; right tackle; F. Jones, left guard; Vandy, center; Cowell, left tackle; Winston, left end; Allen, quarter; Taylor, right half; Fullback, left half; Parker, fullback. Davidson's line averages 175 pounds, less than Carolina's, but they have already shown by the games during the early part of the season that they can fight like demons and are a stone wall when pushed on defense. Davidson's backfield averages one hundred and sixty-five pounds. Carolina is aspiring for the championship of the South, but all Davidson men and supporters feel confident that when David meets Goliath next Saturday, the machine will be in the fight to finish.

ASHEVILLE SCHOOL WINS FROM DAVIDSON SCRUBS

In a fast, hard-fought game in Asheville last Saturday morning, the Davidson Scrubs lost to the Asheville School team. Davidson kicked off, Asheville returning to the thirty-yard line. A line buck failed, then Asheville pulled off a long forward pass for the first touchdown but failed to kick goal. Davidson received and was downed. A punt put the ball in Asheville’s possession, and with a series of end runs and another pass, they advanced to Davidson's eighteen-yard line. Gaining the ball on downs, Davidson kicked out to the fifty-five-yard line. Again Asheville advanced to the twenty-five-yard line, but Davidson held. End of the first quarter. Davidson advanced the ball to the forty-yard line, but failing to make distance, the ball went over on downs and Asheville rapidly carried it to Davidson's five-yard line. Then with a successful fake, they hurled a man through the line for the second touchdown and kicked goal. Davidson received and ran the ball back to the middle of the field, where it rested at the end of the first half. Score, Asheville 13, Davidson 0.

In the second half, Davidson came back strong. They received and by many fierce cross bucks carried the ball to Asheville’s fifteen-yard line, but on (Continued on page 4)