4 SE eee CLEMSON 7° TIGERS © HERE SATURDAY. (Concluded from page 1)

The men whom Williams brings with him will put up a mighty tussle to win, but will they? We must wait and see. It will be a game that will go down in the annals of football history as a mighty, terrific conflict. When the whistle blows, it will be worse than Germany vs. the Allies. This game will mark the real revival of “that old-time pep.”

OFFICIALS FOR SATURDAY.

The officials for the Clemson-Davidson game will be F. V. Samson of Roanoke, Va., referee. Samson refereed the North Carolina and Wake Forest games with absolute satisfaction last Fall. He is one of the best officials in the South. H. H. Varner, former University of Virginia star, will most probably umpire.

SCRUBS TO TAKE TRIPS.

The Faculty has passed a ruling allowing the second team half as many days off the Hill as the Varsity. This will give them at least two or three good trips. The schedule will be announced in a few days. This team certainly deserves consideration, for it is the sacrificing of this team that prepares the Varsity to win games. It is nothing but right that they should have some good trips, and Manager Kluttz says that they will be sure to have several before the end of the season. The best trip will come near the end of the season as a reward to the faithful.

THE FIRST GAME.

The Piedmont team was a great disappointment to everyone in view of the fact that it was so weak. The final score was 115 to 0. The Varsity started it off, then the Scrubs, and finally the Squirts played. Every man in uniform was used, and all showed up well, the Davidson men scoring at will.

“THE OLD PEP” REVIVES.

Each afternoon at the field while the squad is hard at work, the yell leaders, Johnson and Copeland, are leading the team in yells to get ready for Clemson Saturday. The “pep” and spirit of the student body at Clemson last Fall was great—but the Davidson student body can beat it. Davidson should show the Clemson team what the “old Davidson pep” really means; they have heard of the spirit with which the student body here backs up the teams; now they are here to see it—it's up to every loyal student to do his part. A big, real “pep” meeting will be held in Shearer Hall Friday night, just after supper. Everyone ought to be there.

BRIGHT PROSPECTS FOR BASKETBALL TEAM.

At a meeting of the Athletics Association last Thursday morning, J. C. McDonald was elected manager of the team for the ensuing year. He has arranged for several games, but no definite schedule has yet been made. At least three or four good games will be played on the Hill. Heretofore this has been almost impossible on account of the insufficiency of the court in the gym. This difficulty is being removed and a good basketball court will soon be in shape. Coach Fetzer is very much interested in all branches of athletics, and has had much experience in the coaching of basketball teams, and with the material here, and the remodeled court, there is every reason to be assured that Davidson will this year be a strong competitor for State championship. Trinity, Carolina, A. & M., and Wake Forest have for years been stressing this branch of athletics. Basketball is a college major sport and Davidson will simply be attaining to the place this year where she is due to be.

Dr. Sentell spent the weekend at his home in Tennessee.

PLAY | DR. THE DAVIDSONIAN. September 30, 1914

WEATHERFORD SPEAKS TO STUDENT BODY. (Concluded from page 1)

...tory, science, or as a great repository of truth alone, but should look on the Bible as the experience book of humanity in the laboratory of God. It is a book with a message of reality, genuineness, and courage. Immediately after the night service, the Bible Study Committee canvassed the student body in the interest of Voluntary Bible Study on Sunday mornings. As a result, 202 men have enrolled so far. Last Sunday morning the classes organized, and next Sunday they hold their first study at 9:45. Dr. Weatherford, while here, met the Association committees, laid many new plans before them, and instilled his contagious enthusiasm. At a meeting of the Cabinet, he made the following proposition, which probably will be accepted in the near future:He said that if Davidson would raise $15,000, he would raise $25,000 for a new Y.M.C.A. building. This is one of the greatest needs of Davidson at the present time, and such a proposal ought to find a ready response very soon. Nothing definite can be announced as yet, however. Next week several Davidson men will attend the North Carolina Student Conference at Elon College. Next Thursday night, Prof. A. Currie will speak to the Association in Shearer Hall. He never fails to give an inspiring and helpful address, and no man should fail to hear him. Dr. W. R. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., is expected to be here from October 14-20. He is a man of wonderful magnetism and power among young men.

BIDS FOR QUIPS AND CRANKS ENGRAVING WORK.

Mr. A. Pryibil, a representative of the Electric City Engraving Company, of Buffalo, N.Y., was on the Hill Thursday, the 14th, negotiating a contract for the engraving for Quips and Cranks. Several weeks ago, Foote & Davies, of Atlanta, also had a representative here on the same business. During the next two or three weeks, the manager expects to get bids from several other firms so that he will be able to have the work done to the best advantage.

"SCOTT DID IT"

An attractive sign has just been painted on the door of The Davidsonian office at 10 South Chambers. The work was skillfully done by R. T. Scott, of the Freshman class. The letters of the sign, which are black shaded with yellow, are set on the white background: Office The Davidsonian Hours, 7:00-7:30 p.m. "Scott did it" is in the lower right-hand corner.

COLLECTION OF EUROPEAN COINS.

There will be a collection of coins and coat-of-arms of the warring nations on exhibit in the library for the next few days. This display was shown a week in Atlanta's leading drug store, and last week was in the window of the Jordan Drug Company, in Charlotte. The collection is a very good one, besides being quite an educational display. It will profit all who can to go over to the library and see these coins.

HANDBOOK FREE.

The Y.M.C.A. Handbooks are expected today and will be given out at the close of the meeting in Shearer Hall Thursday night. Every man is given one free copy. Extra copies will be 15 cents.

Jack Westall ('09), of Asheville, and Miss Mary Wiley, a student of Queens College, also from Asheville, were married last Tuesday a week ago in their hometown. Westall was one of the shining lights of his class, having been the editor of Quips and Cranks in 1909.

White Drug Co.
PRESCRIPTIONS
Carefully compounded by registered Pharmacists

While in Charlotte
VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers

You are cordially invited to inspect our line of DRUGS
Satisfied customers are our best advertisement
EAST TRADE ST.

The New
We Are Now Open for Business
WITH A FULL LINE
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
Jetton Drug Co.
"AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD"

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

Write for free illustrated catalogue.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS
PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right.
Every Day Till 12 P.M.
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
"Watch the Light"
R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.