The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Peace Contest Will Be Held In December
Preliminaries For State Meet Will Be Interesting.

A preliminary Peace Contest for those who are competing for the honor of representing Davidson at the State Peace Contest will be held in Shearer Hall at the first convenient date following Senior Speaking, probably Saturday night, December 5. The State contest will be held this year some time in January, before the State Legislature, at Raleigh. Because all efforts to bring about worldwide peace have seemingly been stayed by the present European war, the contest this year, as far as the variety and the novelty of solutions which will be offered for the universal peace problem are concerned, promises to be unusually interesting.

MRS. LINGLE’S RECEPTION.

On last Thursday afternoon between the hours of 4 and 6, Mrs. Thos. W. Lingle gave a delightful reception in honor of a number of visiting guests. The house was beautifully decorated in chrysanthemums and autumn leaves, and everything for the occasion was in perfect order. Delicious refreshments were served in the dining room. The guests of honor in the receiving line with Mrs. Lingle were: Mrs. Edward Kidder Graham and Mrs. Joseph Hyde Pratt, of Chapel Hill; Mesdames Lockwood Jones, James Eugene Reilley, Charles C. Hook, Gordon Finger, and Miss Mary O. Graham, of Charlotte; Mrs. B. F. Long, Mrs. Edward Land and Miss Orr, of Statesville; Miss Warburg, of Asheville; and Miss Seuther, of St. Louis, Mo., sister of Mrs. Lingle. A large number of ladies from the town were present. Presiding over the punch bowl were Misses Hood and Payne, while in the dining room Misses Hattie Thompson, Maude Vinson and Julia Johnson served coffee and chocolate. The reception was one of the most delightful ever given in Davidson.

TOWN ITEMS.

Miss Van Patton, of Portsmouth, Va., who has been visiting Miss Mary Young for the past two weeks, returned to her home Monday. Mr. W. E. Crozier, of Baltimore, was a visitor here Friday.

Rev. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville, spent Monday in town, working in the college library.

Three of the young ladies of the town who are off at college spent last Sunday here: Misses Bonnie Shelton, from Elizabeth; Misses Myrle Booe and Sarah Wooten, from Queens College.

Guerdon Easter is at home on a visit.

Rev. Leonard Gill, Supt. of Home Missions of Mecklenburg Presbytery, occupied the pulpit at the Presbyterian church Sunday in the absence of Dr. Richards, who has been away holding a week of meetings. Under the direction of Dr. Arbuckle, a live Boys’ club has been organized at one of the mills. All town articles will be published if phoned to Mr. McDonald, at the Power house.

McKinnon, full-back
Two of Fetzer’s Team Who Played Great Saturday Against U. of S. C.

The “Red and Black machine” by defeating the University of South Carolina 13 to 7 last Saturday in Columbia, added another laurel to its long string of victories. The game was hard and furious throughout. In the first half the Davidson team did not play up to the form that has been displayed in previous games this fall, and not until the opening of the third quarter did they get in their regular stride. The advance of the offense in that period was terrific and brilliant, and the “Gamecocks” seemed helpless before its advance. On account of the game not being started until 3:30, an overcast sky brought early darkness, and in the fourth period, when it was an absolute impossibility to follow either the ball or the runners, the game was called with six minutes to play, with Davidson in possession of the ball. The field was mostly sandy, and muddy in only a very few spots. The outstanding features of the game were the brilliant playing of Fetzer's team in the third quarter when it struck its “natural gait,” and the forward passing game of the “Gamecocks” during the entire game. Carolina tried twenty-six passes, only eight of which succeeded, totaling ninety-six yards. Davidson tried nine forward passes, five of which were successful. For Davidson, the defensive playing of LEM and the offensive work of the line.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 18, 1914.

Davidson Defeats Gamecocks In Close Contest on Wet Field
Carolina Scores on Long Pass in First Half But Presbyterians Come Back With Smashing Offensive and Win 13 to 7.

Brack, Half-back

The Gamecocks found the Davidson line a stone wall, and the very few times it was charged it was with a loss to Carolina. Carolina was outclassed in every way and the Davidson team showed up far superior, especially in the third quarter, when it came to itself. Plaxico scored the lone touchdown for Carolina after a forward pass. Walker scored first for Davidson in the same manner, after the ball had been marched up the field. After a similar journey, McKinnon carried the second score over. In the firstHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Four minutes of play, Davidson from 30-yard line tried a field goal, but the wind blew the ball aside. In the second quarter, with the ball on Carolina's 3-yard line and two downs to make a score, a touchdown failed. Carolina was placed within striking distance of Davidson's goal by a punt by McKinnon which went only 10 yards before going out of bounds. The ball was wet and hard to punt. The pigskin was taken on the following routes: When the coin was flipped, Captain Howell won and elected to kick off. Carolina defended the eastern goal.

First Quarter: On the kick-off, McKinnon made a perfect short on-side kick which Black gathered in before it touched the soil and ran to Carolina's 28-yard line. McKinnon gains 4. Black is thrown for a loss of 2. From 30-yard line, field goal by McKinnon is blown to the side by wind. Carolina’s ball 20-yard line. Forward passing begins at once by the Walker brothers, Black, and Laird of Carolina. Stoner to Plaxico fails; were spectacular at times. Center played a fine defensive game. Captain Howell played a brilliant game. The whole team played on 45-yard line, and so did Anderson. White, another fails; Heyward through line; Heyward punts 50. Keesler returned McKinnon punts 45. Brooker down Brooker no gain; played wonderfully in the third quarter. Perry thrown for loss by McKinnon; Heyward punts over goal line. The defensive work of the backfield and end broke up beautiful forward passes time after time. For Carolina, Stoney’s work on passing. He is one of the best forward passers in the South. Heyward and Hill starred. David Walker, Carolina's ball, 20-yard line, skirts end for beautiful run for 15 yards. McKinnon adds 5 more. Black through tackle gains 1; then 7; but Davidson (Continued on page 4).

Davidson Scrubs NO. 11 Defeat Horner
Charlotte Boys Lose 12-0 In Muddy Fight Saturday.

On a field ankle-deep in mud and bathed in water, the Scrubs defeated Horner Military Academy 12 to 0. For four short quarters, the teams floundered in the ooze and in a pouring rain which made spectacular plays impossible and confined the gains almost entirely to line plunges and short end runs. Every stage of the game was marred by frequent fumbles owing to the slick ball. One of the features of the game was the “pep” of the Horner Lads, who in spite of odds and unfavorable conditions, played a hard game and twice held the Scrubs on the five-yard line. Davidson's two touchdowns came in the first and third quarters. Each time they failed to kick goal. For Davidson, the work of Hill was the outstanding feature, while for Horner, the playing of Orr and Pressly was of the stellar nature.

Line-up:
Substitutions — Davidson: Williams for Law, Julian for Adams. Horner: Nance for Stanland, Short for Nance, Vaughn for Cherry. Umpire, Dr. CoM. Wander; Referee, F.B. Booe; Head-linesman, Ives. Time of quarters, 5 8-5 8.

BASKETBALL.
The Juniors defeated the Sophomores last week by the score of 19 to 7. This makes the third game that the Juniors have won in succession. The Sophs did not score a goal except in the last five minutes of play, when they took a decided spurt but were unable to score over three field goals. The Freshmen defeated the Sophs by a 38-to-16 victory. The feature of the game was the playing of Childs for the Fresh, who made 30 of their points. The Seniors defeated the Freshmen by the close score of 23 to 21. The game was one of the fastest of the session, and in the last half, it looked as if the Fresh would tie the score, but the referee's whistle ended the struggle when one goal would have tied.

The standing of the teams now is as follows:
Won, Lost, Pct.
Fresh .. 4 2 .667
Senior .. 3 2 .600
Juniors .. 3 3 .500
Sophs .. 1 4 .200

DR. SMITH HERE SUNDAY.
On next Sunday, Dr. H. T. Smith, formerly president of Davidson and now president of Washington and Lee University, will be in town and will address the student body. The time for the meeting will be announced later. Dr. Smith is affectionately remembered by the members of the present Senior class who knew him and is almost as well known to many who have not seen him because of his wonderful work in building up Davidson. He will no doubt be heard by a large audience.

Have Ben-Vonde Dry Clean Your Suit for Sr. Speaking--Only $1. See 10 Ch.

Davidson. Position. Horner.
Pharr .......... Or
Paisley ........ Mann
Whitesides .... Alexander
Watkins ....... Council
Hughes ........ Stanland
Sayad ......... Cherry
Smith ......... Hines
Law .......... Boylin
Hill .......... Pressley
Critz ......... Gray
Adams ........ Morrison