4 —— DAVIDSON SCORES FIELD GOAL. (Concluded from page 1) the backfield, and Keesler generaled the team in great style. Crayton and Walker on end played a fine game. The whole team showed that they had been well coached by Fetzer and Harris to meet the attacks of Carolina. For Carolina, the work of Winston on end, Tayloe and Long in the backfield, and Ramsay at tackle, featured. Carolina was enabled to work many forward passes because their powerful line could hold, and the Davidson backs had to play in close in order to back up their line.

First quarter: Carolina, on winning the toss, chose to defend the East goal. McKinnon kicked to the five-yard line. Winston returned the ball twenty-five yards. Tayloe made ten yards over tackle and a well-executed forward pass, Tayloe to Winston, netted another ten for Carolina. Davidson held Carolina for downs. On Davidson's first two attempts, Black and Walker were each thrown for a loss of five yards. McKinnon punted thirty-five yards. Carolina, failing to make ten yards, the ball went over. An attempted forward pass lost Davidson ten yards. A forward pass, Keesler to Austin, gained nine yards. A placement kick went wild. Carolina’s ball on their twenty-yard line. Long punted sixty yards, Keesler returning seven. Davidson penalized five yards for offside. Winston was thrown by Walker for a five-yard loss. Tayloe gained twenty around end. A fake kick by Tandy resulted in his being thrown by McKinnon for a fifteen-yard loss. Quarter ended with Carolina's ball on Davidson's thirty-seven yard line. Score, 0-0.

Second quarter: Walker tackled Burnett behind the line with a loss of eight yards for Carolina. Davidson's ball on Carolina's failure of forward pass. McKinnon punted fifty-five yards. Crayton downed Long in tracks. After several short gains, McKinnon punted fifty yards and Long fumbled, White recovering on Carolina's twenty-yard line. An attempt at a placement kick lost Davidson fifteen yards. McKinnon’s trusty toe then lifted the ball squarely between the uprights, in a beautiful placement kick, from the forty-five yard line. McKinnon kicked fifty yards and Burnett returned thirty. Tayloe gained five around end. A forward pass, Long to Winston, gained thirty yards, and a second by the same players added twenty-five more to Carolina's gains. Tayloe gained two around end. Reid lost two over tackle. Tayloe again executed one of his brilliant end runs, making fifteen yards. Burnett lost three. Tayloe gained ten over tackle and Reid one through center. The whistle blew, ending the half. Score: Davidson 3, Carolina 0.

Second half: Winston kicked forty-five yards, Black returning twenty-five. Keesler gained five through the line. McKinnon punted sixty yards, Long returning twenty-five. Tayloe gained thirty yards around end and Reid followed with five through the line. Tayloe gained three yards more through the line. Davidson penalized five yards, offside. Winston gained one yard around left end. Davidson penalized five yards, offside. Burnett gained seven around end. Tayloe, trying a run around left end, was thrown by Crayton for a loss of one yard. Tayloe broke through the line for a touchdown, but fumbled, Keesler recovering. Davidson’s ball on the twenty-yard line. McKinnon punted forty yards and Long returned ten. Burnett and Reid failed to gain through the line. A fake kick gained thirty yards and followed with three through the line. Tayloe failed through the line. Tayloe made a touchdown around end. Three Davidson players had their hands on him but he twisted loose. Tandy kicked goal. Winston kicked to the five-yard line, McKinnon returning twenty-five. Walker made four yards over tackle. Keesler lost two around end. Forward pass, Keesler to Austin, failed. McKinnon kicked thirty-five yards and Long returned twenty. Third quarter ended with the ball on Carolina’s forty-five yard line. Score: Davidson 3, Carolina 7.

Fourth quarter: Burnett was thrown for a loss of six yards by Black. A forward pass was intercepted by Keesler and he was downed on the thirty-yard line. A forward pass was attempted and failed. A bad pass resulted in a safety and gave Carolina two points. Davidson's ball on her twenty-yard line. McKinnon punted thirty yards, Burnett was downed in his tracks. Tayloe made three yards around end and a pass, Long to Winston, failed. A second time the pass was worked with a gain of forty yards by the same players. Winston made Carolina's second touchdown and Tandy kicked goal. Tandy kicked to Davidson's fifteen-yard line and Laird returned ten. Carolina was penalized five yards, offside. Laird made three through the line, and Keesler made five more. Fowle gained two around end. McKinnon punted out of bounds. Carolina’s ball on their twenty-yard line.Line Foust punted forty yards. Davidson made nine yards on a pass, Keesler to Fowle. One of the best plays of the afternoon was executed in a pass, Keesler to Crayton; the latter ran thirty yards before he was downed by Long, the only man between him and the goal. Fowle gained three and Keesler was thrown for a loss of four. A placement kick was blocked, Keesler recovering. McKinnon punted forty yards and Long was downed in his tracks. Carolina gained on a forward pass, Long to Burnett. Fowle was thrown for a loss of fifteen yards. Game ended. Score: North Carolina 16, Davidson 3.

The line-up was as follows:
Carolina - Position - Davidson
Vandy - Lee - White
Center - Cowell
Lee - Van Devanter
Right guard - Jones
Gloer - Left guard - Gay
Lee - Anderson
Right tackle - Ramsey
Lee - Howell
Left tackle - Williamson
Crayton - Right end - Winston
Austin - Left end - Taylor
Walker - Left half - Burnett
Black - Right half - Reid
McKinnon - Fullback - Long
Keesler - Quarter

Substitutions:
Davidson: R. Walker for Austin, Austin for R. Walker, Beade for C. Walker, Bullock for Gloer, Laird for Black, Black for Laird.
Carolina: Foust for Gay, A. Jones for Vandy, Grimsley for Williamson.

Time of quarters: 12-12-12-12. Referees: Simmons and Kluttz; Umpires: Klutts and Simmons; Linesmen: Peden and Wiggins.

PRESS COMMENTS ON CAROLINA GAME

The Charlotte Observer admits: "Carolina did not score during the first two quarters, and that was not the worst part. They were outplayed at every point. Davidson totally unmasked the marvelous attack of the Blue and White off its feet and set the crowd in psychological motion for a victory for Davidson." And again: "Nothing was ever made over the Davidson line that helped the University team much; the renowned Princeton shift was worked time after time and on every occasion it was met by anticipatory attacks of the Presbyterians." "It was a moral victory for Davidson."

The Winston-Salem Journal says: "The fight put up by the Davidson team was one of the gamest ever seen."

Harvard—Harvard inflicted a defeat upon the University of Michigan. The score was 7 to 0. The game was characterized by a number of line plunges. Five thousand people witnessed the game.

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
Undivided Profits $625,000.00

While in Charlotte
White Drug Co.
Students’ Headquarters for
TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
Cigars
Your Patronage is Solicited
Satisfied Customers are our Best Advertisement
EAST TRADE ST.

We have the goods that you want---new and fresh.
EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE
Located in the center of town.
Physicians Prescriptions a Specialty
Sales agency for Huyler’s Candy
Jetton Drug Co.

A FEAST for the devotee of athletics is a visit to a Spalding store. Therein he can see and examine implements and accessories for every known athletic sport. An expert will take pleasure in showing him what the champions use in their respective lines. He can wield a racket, swing a golf club or a baseball bat, punch a bag or “do a stunt” on the gym apparatus; he can even take an imaginary row on one of the rowing machines; in fact, he can go through the maneuvers of every form of athletic sport right in our store. If you cannot call at a Spalding store, then the next best thing is to send for a Spalding catalogue.

AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
Phone No. 74-L
“Watch the Light”
DAVIDSON, N.C.