AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four Per Cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four Per Cent. Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

PRINTING
Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed.
A. BR. HOWLAND, Local Representative
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

To our Friends and Patrons:
We have moved our shop into the rear of BOOE’S MARKET
Mayhew’s Suitorium
Phone 79
The Shop That Pleases

The weather is hot, but Cold Drinks from White-Jetton Co. Agents for Waterman's and Parker's Fountain Pens Eastman Kodaks and Films will keep you cool if you buy. Full Line of STATIONERY.

The DAVIDSONIAN. May 13, 1914

SHOPPING IS A PLEASURE
We have just received a new line of Dry Goods. Stocks are large, variety complete, styles authentic, and prices just a little lower than same quality goods can be purchased elsewhere. Truly, NOW is the choosing time.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

“THERE'S A REASON.”
Read the following letter. It is like dozens of others:
Dear Sir:
Please find enclosed my check for $1.00 in payment of one year’s subscription to the best thing that ever happened to Davidson. The enthusiasm of your alumni is absolutely essential to the success of our college in every line of its endeavor. The Davidsonian will do more to arouse that enthusiasm and co-operation among your alumni than any other organ of our college. It’s the best thing yet, and I'm with you all the way.
Yours for Davidson,
“Ty” Cobb, Davidson, 1912.

PROFESSORS ENTERTAIN.
Professors Wunder and Gillespie were the charming “hostesses” of one of the most enjoyable social events of the entire season on Saturday evening, May 2. The event was one in which Professors entertained several of their lady friends and only four of their gentlemen friends. A most delicious salad course was served, followed by an ice course, which was in itself the object of much praise as to its deliciousness and the exquisite manner in which it was served. The features of the event were the most excellent playing of the games by the ladies and the timidity, yet kindness, of the gentlemen friends who were at 10:15 p.m. masters of the situation.

COACH COOK RESIGNS.
Coach Cook has handed in his resignation as athletic director of Davidson College. As a coach, he has ever been untiring in his efforts in whatever branch he was directing and has always put out a team that has been a credit to Davidson. During his two years here, he has won the friendship and admiration of all, and we wish him much success in his future work. For next year, he has three or four excellent offers, but has not yet decided upon which one he will accept. Last night he left for New York City, where he will spend the remainder of the week, seeing the Detroit games while there; then he leaves for Hartford, Conn., for a few weeks. From there he goes to his summer camp at Black Hall, Conn., where he will be for several months. In September, he goes back to Hartford, where he will be married.

PRINCETON,
Work on the new Palmer Memorial Stadium has begun with the view of completing this in...Time for the Yale football game next November. The seating capacity is estimated at 41,000. 

Give J. H. WERTZ a trial and be convinced that he is the leader in low prices. Now's the time to buy from him. A special price to students for the next week. Phone 89.

Clearance Sale
We are closing out our line of canned goods at reduced prices. It will pay you to see us before you buy.

APRIL MAGAZINE OUT.
The April number of the Davidson College Magazine made its appearance last Wednesday. In spite of the fact that its lateness of appearance rather diminished our appreciation of it, this issue is one of the best of the year. It is not over-thick by any means, but the contents are unusually well balanced, with a specially good story, “The Fall of Dragon,” two essays of divergent types, and several poems. The editorial columns seem to be in doubt as to whether The Davidsonian really has a right to exist or not. The question about the possibility of supporting three periodicals has not been finally answered as yet, of course, but judging by the general approbation and support which The Davidsonian has met with so far, there can be no question as to its being a good thing. The coming year will have to decide whether a weekly paper will materially affect the finances of the Magazine and Quips and Cranks. The seven weeks’ experience of The Davidsonian seems to show, however, that it can live on the odds and ends left by the other periodicals, without difficulty. It hardly seems possible either, that it will exhaust the field of advertising with its seventy odd inches of advertising which it has been able to pick up after the other publications had their advertisements for the same old stand.

Are you ready for examinations? We have a big supply of DIXIE TABLETS and FOUNTAIN PENS. If you are looking for a Fountain Pen, buy one from us at a reduced price.

S.C. Scofield

Does your roof leak? It will not if it is repaired by C. B. Mooney, General Contractor. Painting, tin work, brick work, repair work of all kinds. Good and quick service.

DAVIDSON MEN WILL ATTEND SOUTHERN STUDENT CONFERENCE.
Some fifteen men have already decided to attend the great Southern Student Conference to be held at Blue Ridge, N.C., June 12-22. At the conference held this summer there will be 87 colleges represented, 400 delegates are expected, and there will be 34 splendid speakers, leaders, and teachers.

COLUMBIA.
The leading fraternities of Columbia have taken up a reform movement supposedly upon certain hints given them by the faculty. They propose to give a bid only to those men who show a desire to work and take full advantage of their college course. They also propose to establish tutoring classes in which the upperclassmen may help the underclassmen. A uniform system of bookkeeping has been planned by them, but they, however, refuse to stop the pledging of men at the beginning of schools.

To Our Commencement Friends and Visitors:
Make ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON headquarters for gent's furnishings and shoes.