Th DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 1 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 6, 1914. NO. 28

Vacation Plans of the Faculty. Several Will Travel. Others Expect to Teach.

President Martin will take no vacation, but will be actively engaged with Davidson affairs both on and off the Hill.

Dr. Grey will be in Davidson during the summer, and is planning to carry out a plan of language work.

Dr. Harding will be at home during the summer.

Prof. J. L. Douglas is planning a trip to the North, and it is rumored that he may take an interesting trip abroad.

Dr. J. M. Douglas will conduct a class in Geology during the month of June, and is planning to spend the remainder of the summer in the mountains of Western North Carolina, probably Montreat.

Dr. J. Moore McConnell will leave Davidson, June 23, for the University of Virginia to teach History at the annual summer session—June 23-Aug. 6.

Dr. Sentelle will attend the General Assembly in Kansas City, and is planning to spend the remainder of the summer traveling in the West.

Dr. Arbuckle and family will spend the summer at his summer home in Greenbrier County, W. Va., near the famous Greenbriar Sulphur Springs. Dr. Arbuckle will be occupied also with his business interests in West Virginia.

Professor Currie is planning to take up work in Law, Education and Public Speaking, at Columbia University and the University of Chicago. Professor Currie will also spend some time in the mountains.

Dr. Wilson McConnell will be engaged in Post-Graduate Hospital work in New York, and will also attend the American Medical Association at Atlantic City, N. J.

Dr. Wunder will take up Geological work, first at the University of Virginia, and will spend the remainder of the summer at his home in the Shenandoah Valley, Va.

INTERESTING WORK WILL BE PURSUED BY PROF. FULTON.

Professor Fulton has accepted an appointment as special representative for the Simplified Spelling Board, and expects to devote the month of June and July to visiting twenty-three of the more important summer schools for teachers in the Southern States. The object of these visits will be not only to inform teachers and superintendents in regard to the aims of this movement for the regulation of English spelling and how it may be promoted, but also to make certain investigations in which the Simplified Spelling Board is interested. As at present planned, Professor Fulton's trip will include the States of Louisiana, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. Immediately after commencement Professor Fulton will go to New York to confer in regard to the details of his work with Dr. C. P. G. Scott, the etymological editor of the Century Dictionary.

The Simplified Spelling Board, established in 1906, under an endowment of $1,000,000 from Andrew Carnegie, for the purpose of carrying on an active campaign in behalf of a more reasonable spelling for the English language, has a representative membership of philologists, university officials, men of letters, editors, etc., including, among others, (Continued on page 4)

Mayor Sloan May Run for Lower House.

The following appeared in the Charlotte Evening News last week:

"There may yet be another candidate in the race for the lower house of the General Assembly from Mecklenburg county—in the person of Mayor J. Lee Sloan, of Davidson. Mr. Sloan's many friends over the county and in Charlotte, convinced of his eminent fitness for the place, have been urging him for some time to become a candidate, and there is a likelihood, it is said, that he will yet see his way clear to accede to the request.

It is pointed out in his favor that he is not only well equipped for the place, but that he would make a strong appeal to those who think the place should be filled by a business man, who is at the same time thoroughly conversant with public affairs. His friends claim he is. He is owner of a mill and has other interests at Davidson and is at the same time familiar with the needs of rural life and conditions. Up to date there are only three candidates for the lower house, which is entitled to three representatives from the county."

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Arbuckle gave a delightful entertainment to the Ladies' Book Club, Thursday afternoon, in honor of Miss Young, of Queens College.

Mrs. W. C. C. Foster has been quite ill for the past two weeks with a severe attack of Lagrippe.

Mr. J. H. Wertz has been confined for the past few days with a severe attack of cold.

Mr. Thompson has entirely recovered from an attack of mumps, but Friday another member of his family broke out with the disease, which makes the tenth victim of the mumps in his household.

Mr. F. W. Wakefield, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Sunday.

Mr. F. C. Cobb, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Sunday.

Mr. C. C. Mooney’s little child died last Saturday of whooping cough, and was buried at Cornelius.

Mrs. Thos. H. Lingle is representing the Book Lovers’ Club and the Civic League of Davidson, at the North Carolina Federation of Women’s Clubs at its annual meeting this week.

Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Durham, and Miss Nell McLain, of Gastonia, were in Davidson last Tuesday to attend Powhatan.

The following is the program for the next two months of the Civic League: Conditions in Our School, Per Cent of Absences, Etc., Miss Julia Johnson; Sanitary Conditions, Mrs. T. H. Lingle; Need of Playgrounds, Discussion led by Mrs. W. R. Grey; What Has Been Done for the Improvement of the Health of Our Schools, Miss Maud Vinson. June—A Study of the Negro School, Estimation of the Colored Children, Mrs. John Reid; Plans for Betterment,Mrs. Brady. (Continued on page 4) Such a man Mr. Stoan’s. Next Year. The literary societies have closed this year with a good year’s work to the credit of each. In the declamation contest, both societies entered a large number of men. In the debate with the University of South Carolina, both members of the team were from the Eumenean Society, and although the decision was unfavorable to Davidson, the societies cannot be anything but proud of the way their team debated. This past term, the same team overwhelmingly defeated Wake Forest at Winston-Salem, adding another to the list of Davidson’s forensic victories. In the Fresh-Soph Debate, a good deal of interest and good debating were exhibited in both societies. The Junior-Senior Debate was won by the Philanthropic Society. The essayists contest in the Philanthropic Society has been heard from, I. H. McEwen winning the medal with an essay on the industrial education of the negro. The essayists contest in the Eumenean Society has not been decided as yet, nor has the fiction contest been heard from. The Magazine has had a good year. The last issue will appear in a few days. It might be mentioned that its editor-in-chief is a member of the Eumenean Society. One of the most important things accomplished by the Philanthropic Society this year was a radical revision of its Constitution. This Commencement will mark the introduction of a reception by the literary societies into the long list of receptions given Commencement week. This reception will be given Tuesday night, the 10th. At a special meeting of the Eumenean Society last Monday morning, G. Gignilliat, Jr., was elected to the Magazine staff to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Norman Johnson.

STUDENT COUNCIL ELECTIONS. Following the election of the president of the student body last week, the elections of members of the student council for the coming year resulted as follows: Senior members: T. H. Anderson, C. M. Gibbs, T. W. S. Gilchrist, Norman Johnson, and W. A. McIlwaine. Junior members: T. A. Mullen, F. H. Smith, and T. P. Williams. Sophomore members: S. R. Keesler, Jr., and A. B. Reese.

MCILWAINE EDITOR 1915 ANNUAL. At a meeting of the Junior class last Thursday, W. A. McIlwaine was elected editor of “Quips and Cranks” for next year. J. E. Faw will be manager, having been elected last year. The Annual staff will be appointed within the next week.

Mrs. Alice B. Robson's mother, Mrs. A. M. Baskerville, of Clifton Forge, Va., and her sister, Mrs. S. B. Saunders, of Fredericksburg, are visiting Mrs. Robson during the illness of her sister, Miss Lula Baskerville. Miss Baskerville is missed constantly by her many friends on the campus and in the town, and all hope earnestly for her recovery soon.

Back the advertisers who are backing us.

Much interest is being manifested in the final game of the season on Thursday. With a clear afternoon, there is sure to be a record-breaking crowd here to witness this contest. Many alumni and other baseball enthusiasts from nearby cities and towns will be present. There has always been a keen rivalry between these two institutions in every department of collegiate work, in baseball, football, and debating. “Gi” Guerrant’s bunch is coming determined to take this final game from the “Red and Blacks.” Coach Cook is also determined, and more so, to land this game, and is getting the Varsity in the best of condition for this last game. The Gamecocks have a fast fielding and a good hitting team. So far this season has been a successful one for them. Their line-up is as follows: Plaxico, cf; Langston, rf; Shuler, 3b; W. Rudisill, ss; Edens, 1b; Richards, lf; F. Rudisill, 2b; Stoney and Heywood, c; Mills and Adams, p. Along with the team also travels the “State” reporter, Mr. Sam Latimer. Last week they defeated Wake Forest on the Baptist home ground by the score of 5 to 0. At V.P.I. their string of victories was broken when they lost to the Techs 9 to 6. Again on Saturday, they were defeated by V.M.I. 12 to 6. They play several games the first of this week and have the last game of the trip on Sprunt Athletic Field. The line-up for this game will be about the same as usual. Captain Crayton, who has been out of the last two games with a sprained ankle, will be back with his usual “pep.” Elliott will hardly be able to play any more this season on account of his finger, but Keesler has been showing up well behind the plate. The “Electric Machine” will be full of pep and will give the Gamecocks a hard fight.

KLUTTZ ELECTED PRESIDENT OF ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION. At a meeting of the Athletic Association, Saturday night, the following officers were elected: President, L. W. Kluttz; Vice-President, W. G. Morrison; Treasurer, J. P. Williams; Student Body Representatives, T. H. Anderson and J. I. Carter. L. G. Hicks and W. G. Morrison were elected assistant managers of the football team, L. W. Kluttz having been previously elected manager. W. M. Shaw was elected manager of the baseball team.

DAVIDSON ENTERS TENNIS MEET. Davidson was represented in the Southern Inter-Collegiate tennis meet, held on the courts of the Mecklenburg Country Club, in Charlotte this week, by Crawford, in singles, and by Pim and Johnson, in doubles. On the first round, Crawford won from Daniel, of Georgia, 6-1 and 6-4. On the next round, however, he lost to Oates, of University of North Carolina, 3-6 and 4-6. Pim and Johnson were playing Oates and Chambers, of University of North Carolina, when The Davidsonian went to press.

The new members of the Debating Council entertained the old members at a delightful feed in Phi hall Monday night.

Hear the Truth About Snakes Saturday Night at Shearer Hall.