The DAVIDSONIAN. May 6, 1914

TOWN NEWS.

VACATION PLANS OF THE FACULTY.
(Continued from page 1)

such men as E. Benjamin Andrews, ex-Chancellor of the University of Nebraska; David Starr Jordan, ex-President of Leland Stanford University; President Foster of Reed College; Prof. Clarence G. Child of the University of Pennsylvania; Prof. O. F. Emerson of Western Reserve; Prof. Charles H. Grandgent of Harvard University; Prof. Thomas R. Lounsbury of Yale; Prof. Brander Matthews of Columbia University; Supt. I. Maxwell of the New York City Schools; John Burroughs, George W. Cable, and ex-President Roosevelt.

DR. LINGLE PLANS INTERESTING TRIP.

On June 19 a party of young men, mostly Davidson students, led by Dr. Lingle, will sail from New York for Southampton, England, for a seventy-day tour through England, France, and Italy, spending half the time in France, and the other half divided between England and Italy. The trip will be made across the continent on bicycles. It will be especially interesting and instructive to the students, because of Dr. Lingle’s skill in modern languages and familiarity with the historical places visited.

Some of the places to be visited in England will be London, Gray’s Country Churchyard, Eton College, and the Shakespeare country at Stratford on Avon. Crossing the English Channel to Normandy, the route lies up the Seine to Paris, visiting the chateaux and famous fortresses along the way; thence to the Auvergne country of Central France, called by some writers the most beautiful region on earth. Then passing on to Italy, the route leads to Genoa, Pisa, Florence, Rome, and Naples. All together this trip will afford an opportunity for spending as pleasant and as profitable a summer imaginable.

PANAMA-PACIFIC HANDBOOK IS READY.

A Remarkable Publication of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition—Free Distribution Now Being Made by the Remington Typewriter Co.

A remarkable official publication on the Panama-Pacific International Exposition is ready for circulation, and it is announced that its distribution throughout the world will be made by the Remington Typewriter Company. The entrusting of such a function to a private business house is a new departure in exposition management. This action has been decided upon by the Committee having the matter in charge, because the Remington Typewriter Organization, with its six hundred and fifty-eight offices covering every continent and country on the globe, is the best available agency through which to make the distribution.

The handbook is distributed free to those interested, and a copy may be obtained for the asking at any Remington office. This booklet is not only valuable and interesting to every prospective visitor to California and the exposition, and to every prospective exhibitor, but is also an exceptionally beautiful piece of printing. It is superbly illustrated in colors, reproducing original paintings and pictorial maps showing the arteries of travel the world over, the Panama Canal zone, California, San Francisco and vicinity, and the Exposition. Its publication has been arranged for in the principal languages of the commercial world. In accordance with the arrangements made by the Exposition management, a supply of these booklets for free distribution is now on hand at the Remington Typewriter Company’s office, Charlotte, N. C., and all of our readers are invited to write and obtain a copy.—Adv

(Continued from page 1)

Mrs. John Reid attended the Concord Presbyterial, held at Lenoir, as a delegate from here. Miss Mattie Thompson was also a delegate, but was unable to attend the convention on account of an attack of mumps.

The Ladies’ Missionary Society will meet Thursday at the home of Mrs. J. H. Johnson.

Mrs. Robert Tarleton, of Richmond, Va., will be visiting relatives in Davidson until after Commencement.

Mr. W. M. Armour, of Davy, West Va., is making Davidson hishome for a few months. * Mrs. F. H. Whittaker expects to leave soon on a trip to Washington. In her absence, Dr. Harding will visit her cousin, Miss Dadson, in Greensboro. Miss Sallie Lafferty returned last week from a long visit to her brother’s family. Friends will be glad to know that her brother’s baby has recovered from serious sickness. The Young Ladies’ Basket Ball League is enjoying exciting games these afternoons on the new court behind Mrs. Lingle’s home. W. H. Sprunt is coaching them.

A new little policeman has come into town and is holding the fort night and day at the home of Mr. Johnson. * Two boys’ baseball teams have been organized in town under the captaincy of Frank Torrence and Frank Hall. They are playing on a diamond behind Dr. Arbuckle’s house. Dr. Arbuckle has thrown himself into this as into so many other interests and is helping the boys a great deal.

Several ladies from Davidson attended the Mecklenburg Presbyterial at Huntersville last week. Rev. J. Lain, a missionary from China, was one of the speakers. He was in Davidson for a few hours. * Mr. Carlyle Sloan is the possessor of a new automobile, which he uses to carry parties at very reasonable prices. Engagements can be made with him for Commencement. * Mrs. Ellinwood and Miss Ellinwood will be much missed by the town next winter. They expect to spend a year in California. Dr. Arbuckle expects to rent their home. * Miss Minnie Cranford, who has been ill at her father’s home here, is much improved and left last Friday for a brief stay again in Charlotte. Mr. Avery Hobbs has bought a new two-seated Ford. Mrs. Dupuy will not return to Davidson till the last of May.

“Jack” and “Till” were two pet dogs in the home of Dr. Richards. They were well known to all the little folks of the town, and there was much sorrow when “Till” was killed last week.

FRESH WIN TWO GAMES. Last week in the class baseball games in the battle for the “cup” the Freshman team was twice victors. They won from the Seniors in a 7-inning contest, 3 to 2. The game was close, and the winner was in doubt until the last inning. James pitched a good game for the Seniors; Smith, for the Fresh. The next game was more of a swatting game, and the final score was 10 to 8 for the Fresh. Battery for Sophs, Cashion and Moore; for Fresh, Shaw and Thames.

County engineers were here May 1 to survey for a sand clay road from the end of the macadam road to Rocky River. While in Charlotte

CHARLOTTE HARDWARE CO. TATE’S 30 EAST TRADE STREET BARBER SHOP The best work by Experienced Barbers

SPORTING GOODS and HARDWARE of every description 33 EAST TRADE ST. “At The Sign of The Big Key”

Durham Duplex Razor And large stick of SHAVING SOAP for 35 cts. Bowen’s Drug Store CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Phones 203 & 459 Let us show you our line of NEW DRESS GOODS White and Fancy Crepes, Ratines, Corduroys, and a full line of Staple Goods. Torchon Laces, 5¢. Val. Lace and Insertions to match. Flouncings and Allovers in both Embroideries and Lace. M. H. GOODRUM & CO. DAVIDSON, N.C.

Fellows-- While in Charlotte go to Ed. Mellon Co. Complete Line of Gents’ Furnishings Represented by PAYNE & CARSON Hand in our tickets with each purchase

GENTLEMEN! for your TONSORIAL WORK Stop at First Door Below Post Office R. J. SHELTON Livery, Feed and Sale Stables Electric fan to keep you cool while waiting Phone No. 74-L RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop. DAVIDSON, N.C.