_ play. LAST WEEK'S GAMES. On Monday the team went over to Gastonia to play Trinity, but because of the rain it was impossible to play. The next game was with Trinity, and the Methodists won 6 to 4, although outplayed by the Electric Machine. Bill Osteen pitched a beautiful game, just as he had against Oak Ridge, but we had hard luck again and lost. Up until the seventh it looked like Davidson had the game "sewed up," but this frame has often been a hard luck one for the Electrics, and this was the time Trinity won. In the third, Osteen drove in one run, and "Pete" came up after him and slashed one to the left garden, scoring two. In the seventh, with two men on, Kanipe stepped to the plate and pounded one to right field, which Keesler was unable to hold, and two scored. Two hits followed, scoring two more. As usual, the ninth inning rally came: Currie batting for Watkins hit safe to right, Kluttz hit safe to center, and Currie goes to second. Keesler’s grounder was fumbled and the bases were drunk. Victory was almost within grasping distance, and the rooters were almost wild. Stough looked dangerous and was walked. Bill came up and made a mighty swing, but the ball glanced off his bat and went to the pitcher, who threw to plate and cut off Kluttz, and Osteen was out on double play.

Box score:
DAVIDSON AB H R A PO E
Christenhury, 4 0 0 3 0 2
Kluttz, lf 5 2 0 0 0
Keesler, rf 4 0 0 0 1
Stough, cf 5 0 1 5 0 0
Osteen, p 5 1 1 2 2 0
Crayton, 1b 2 0 0 1 2 0
Somerville, 2b 0 0 0 1 1 0
Walker, cf 2 0 1 0 0 0
Watkins, 3b 5 0 0 2 0 0
Brown, cf 1 0 0 0 0 0
Currie 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 32 7 8 15 27 6

* Batted for Watkins in 9th.

TRINITY AB H R A PO E
Durham, 3b 5 2 0 1 3 4
Anderson, ss 3 0 0 3 2 0
Spence, cf 5 1 0 0 2 0
Thorne, lf 5 1 1 0 0 0
Maddox, c 5 1 0 1 9 0
Rone, 2b 2 0 0 2 1 2
Cooper, rf 0 1 0 2 0 0
Siler, 1b 4 2 0 0 4 0
Kanipe, p 4 1 0 1 2 0
Totals 37 7 6 12 27 6

Struck out by Osteen, 11; base on balls, 2. Struck out by Kanipe, 4; base on balls, 8. Hit by pitched ball, Siler.

SHORE TOO MUCH. The last game was a victory for the Guilford pitcher. It was not Guilford that defeated the Red and Black Machine, but it was Shore. He certainly had everything that a pitcher should have. Still, the game would have been different if Murphy Currie’s finger had not been sore, which greatly handicapped him. Guilford made the majority of their scores in the seventh, when with the bases full, one was walked in, a passed ball by the catcher, and a hit scored the others. Shore struck out 16 men. The final result of the game was 7 to 4 in favor of Guilford.

CAROLINA TO PLAY. In the last issue, it was stated that this game had been canceled, but since that time Manager Robeson has received a wire saying that since they had to cancel a game on account of rain, they will be permitted this game off the Hill. It is to be played on the regular date, April 21, in Charlotte. It is gratifying to know that the Red and Blacks will get a chance at the University lads.

The FEDERALS. On Thursday afternoon in a practice game, the Federals in a six-inning contest won over the regulars 3 to 2. The pitching of James, the fielding of Choate at first and McDonald at short, featured. The Federals are developing some good future Varsity material, and it is a good thing, since Davidson only has one diamond, and there are others here who can be developed into good players. On Saturday, the Feds went to Concord in autos and there lost 4 to 1. Panella pitched for the Feds, and..."Ding" Bell for Concord. After the second inning Panella was invincible. GOL. Dr. Arbuckle has certainly been untiring in his efforts to get golf started here at Davidson. The course has been finished now, and considering the many difficulties to be overcome in getting it in shape, much credit is due to "Dr." and those who helped him. The members of the Faculty and some others are keeping the course "red-hot" these pretty afternoons. Professor Currie is developing into something of a star player.

GYM TEAM. The Gym Team started on a trip to Sumter, the "Game-cock" City of world renown, this morning, where they will make their debut in South Carolina on Thursday night. A sufficient number of basketball players were taken along so as to have a game of basketball on Friday afternoon. Those who departed were: Carter, Blake, Winn (Mgr.), James McDonald, Thomason, McKeithern, Murray. Messrs. Rowland and McKay went along as mascots. The Fresh Class Gym Team should develop some good athletic material, shouldn't it?

TENNIS. J. Gould and W. H. Huho won the world's amateur championship by defeating the English champs in doubles last week. Cranford and Crawford are daily practicing and getting their eye on the ball. This "champ" team goes to the University of South Carolina on the 11th of April, and South Carolina comes here for a meet on the 7th of May. "Tur" Crawford and Bob Crawford, former tennis champions here, will play one another when the University of South Carolina goes to John Hopkins for a tennis meet in the near future. If Dave could be there to play it would be quite a family affair.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS. New books are always coming into the library, many of them of special interest to us. Here are a few of the most recent acquisitions, some of them just what you have been looking for on that puzzling or interesting subject. On biography, we have the Memoirs of Li Hung Chang, the great Chinese statesman who was so highly estimated by Dr. Mills in his lecture a few weeks ago. On literature, we have Commentary on In Memoriam, by A. G. Bradley; The Greatest Books in the World, by Laura Spencer Porter; in the realm of science, Photography of Today; on philosophy and psychology, The Will to Believe, by James; Crowds, by Gerald Lee; of special interest to college men: From School Through College, by Wright; Young Man's Affairs, by C. R. Brown; on education: Education for Efficiency, by E. Davenport. Not least is a collection of Orations, edited by Chauncey Depew, just the work you need for next year’s Junior speech, or to get a good declamation for society.

DAVIDSONIAN. April 8, 1914

VISIT TATE'S BARBER SHOP The best work by Experienced Barbers EAST TRADE ST.

SPECIAL WHILE THEY LAST Durham Duplex Razor And large stick of SHAVING SOAP for 35 cts. Bowen’s Drug Store CHARLOTTE, N.C. :: Phones 203 & 459

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. DAVIDSON, N. C. Dealers in GENERAL MERCHANDISE FERTILIZER and HARDWARE Selling agents for McCormick Harvesting Machines, and International Harvester Co.’s Line of Farming Implements of all Kinds You will find our stock of Dry Goods, Groceries and Shoes Complete at all times. We are in the market for cotton all the time and will always pay you the highest market price.

GENTLEMEN! For your TONSORIAL WORK Stop at First Door Below Post Office Electric fan to keep you cool while waiting RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop.

While in Charlotte THE CHARLOTTE HARDWARE CO. 30 EAST TRADE STREET SPORTING GOODS and HARDWARE of every description "At The Sign of The Big Key"

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE “AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

Fellows-- While in Charlotte go to Ed. Mellon Co. Complete Line of Gents’ Furnishings Represented by PAYNE & CARSON Hand in our tickets with each purchase

R. J. SHELTON Livery, Feed Sale Stables Phone No. 74-L DAVIDSON, N.C.