4 PERSONNEL OF THE “D” MEN.

Howell, Captain, Left Tackle, Senior Class—There hasn't been a player at Davidson who has been a harder worker or more
consistent player than Howell. He for four years has been faithful on the athletic battleground, and for the past three
has won and well deserved the “D” which he received. He hails from Rockingham, N.C., is 160 in weight, 5-11
in height. Captain Howell’s place will be hard to fill next year, and all wish him as much success in
his future vocation as he has had on the gridiron.

McKinnon, Captain-elect, Full Back, Junior Class—Weight, 185; height, 5 feet 11 inches. “Big Mac” is a Georgian from Brunswick, and
this city should be proud of him as indeed Davidson is. For two years he has been the main factor
in many victories that Davidson has won. His line plunge, his punting, his defensive work, made him the star of
numerous games. His work in the U. of N.C. and U. of S.C. games was great this Fall. As the
pilot of next Fall’s team, Davidson is counting on him and has confidence that he will make a good one.

Anderson, Tackle, weight, 180; 6 feet 2 inches; Senior Class, Anderson, S.C. For two years he has been a power
in the line in many a hard game. It is with regret that Davidson thinks of his absence from his
position next Fall.

Van DeVanter, Guard; weight, 175; height, 5-11; Senior. “Van” had dropped out for a year or so, and all were
glad to see him back this Fall. He surely deserved the block “D” monogram that he received.

Crayton, Left End; weight, 176; height, 6 feet; Senior, Charlotte, N.C. This is ‘Pete’s’ fifth year of service on the
football squad. For the past two years he has been one of the most consistent and valuable players on the
team. Davidson will lose a good player in ‘Pete’s’ departure.

Walker, C. L., Half Back; weight, 172; height, 5-10. “Steve” is a South Carolinian and comes from the capital city,
Columbia. Before coming to Davidson last Fall he went to Clemson, where he made his block letter on the football
team. Both last season and this “Steve” has played a splendid game.

White, Center; weight, 173; height, 6-1; Danielsville, Ga., Soph. This was White’s first season as a regular, but he has
played like a veteran in all the games this Fall. He played in every single Varsity game, and during the
entire season did not have time taken out a single time, nor was he out of the game a minute.
Davidson is expecting great things from him next Fall.

Keesler, Quarter; weight, 132; height, 5-6; Soph.; native of Greenwood, Miss. Though the lightest man on the team, Sam makes
up in nerve and speed what he lacks in weight.

Laird, Half Back; weight, 155; height, 5-9; Soph. “Red” is another Georgian, coming from Decatur. Before entering D.C., “Red” played
for several years on Tech High School's Champion Team. He played some great ball this Fall, particularly in the U.
of S.C. game.

Black, Half Back; weight, 174; height, 5-9; Concord, N.C.; Fresh Class. Last Fall Black was chief star on “Bill” Fetzer’s
Va. Prep. Champion Team. He played an unusually fine game this Fall in every single battle. Along with him the
squad had other colors, as Grey and White. There was also some Green material, but no “Yellow Streak.”

Walker, R., Right End; weight, 154; height, 5-9. Another from Columbia. He last Fall played on Clemson team. He played
a fine game, especially in the U. of S.C. and Wake Forest games. He belongs to the football pair of
“Walker Bros.”

Kluttz, Lex., Manager season 1913 and also 1914; from Chester, S.C. Kluttz has made a splendid and efficient manager. He
has been untiring in his work for the Athletic Association.

Hereafter the Graded School Honor Roll will be printed monthly in The DAVIDSONIAN.

The DAVIDSONIAN, December 9, 1914

ASHEVILLE HIGH WINS
(Continued from page 1)

Teith runs for 30 yards. Line play gain of quarter. Asheville punted to Huntersville's 20-yard. 20 yards. Asheville held for
downs. On failure to gain, punted; Huntersville Ranson was injured and was carried from field. This was a great loss
for Asheville, as the quarter was at all times on yards on line bucks and end runs. Game ended. Score:
Asheville 6, Huntersville 0.

BASKETBALL PROSPECTS

Since the termination of both the football and the class basketball schedules on Thanksgiving, the number of candidates for the
Varsity basketball team has been more than doubled, and light but regular practice has been the order of each afternoon
for the past...Week. An ample indoor court has made it possible to continue regular practice despite the unfavorable weather conditions.
With the members of last year’s Varsity squad and much new material that has been developed in the class games
as a nucleus, the coaches are endeavoring to whip into line a formidable team to represent Davidson this year. Of
last year’s squad, McDonald, Carson, Reese, Laird, and Somerville have been showing up well in practice, while Childs, Howell, Walker,
and Austin, from the Freshman class, seem to be of Varsity caliber. A tentative schedule of games, which is given
below, has been arranged by Manager McDonald. Although the contracts for these games have not been signed by the several
managers, yet it is practically certain that only slight deviations will be made from the schedule as it is given
below, except that six more games will be added to it later in the season. Davidson will play the following
teams at the following times and places:

Jan. 16—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at Davidson.
Jan. 20—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
Jan. 21—Elon, at Elon.
Jan. 28—Trinity, at Durham.
Jan. 29—A. & M., at Raleigh.
Jan. 30—Charlotte Y. M. C. A., at Charlotte.
Feb. 6—Clemson, at Clemson.
Feb. 13—Statesville Y. M. C. A., at Statesville.
Feb. 26—Wofford, at Davidson.
Feb. 27—Wofford, at Davidson.

PHOTOGRAPHER HERE AGAIN.

Mr. Roy Moose, of Moose & Son, of Greensboro, has been here since Monday taking the individual pictures for the
Annual. Although a few of the orders for individual pictures had been filled before the fire, it is necessary for
even those pictures to be taken over, as gloss prints for the reproducing process had not been made from the
negatives. The fire which destroyed Moose & Son's studio occurred a few weeks ago. All seniors, juniors, graduate students, fraternity
members, and marshals who have not already sat for their pictures should do so this afternoon. Mr. Moose is using
the old library as his studio.

DR. FULTON HONORED.

At the recent meeting of the State Teachers’ Association, Dr. M. G. Fulton was chosen chairman of a committee to
draw up by-laws for a State organization for teachers of English. He was also elected a director of the National
Council of Teachers of English. The State Folk-Lore Association also honored him by electing him to the position of First
Vice-President.

Subscribe NOW to the Davidsonian

Rodgers gained 18 yards for Huntersville. Mon- ed 5 more. Rodgers tries for goal. End Fourth quarter. Asheville’s ball on
their 20-yard line. Randolph gained 20 yards around end. Forward pass and line bucks gained 25 more. Attempt at forward
passes failed twice. Ashe- Forward pass failed. Line bucks gained returning 12 yards. Jordan in tackling the jab. Huntersville advanced
ball 30 yards.

50 cents for remainder of College year

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE
AIN'T THE GRAVY

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months.

When in Charlotte, it’s the Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements

White Drug Co.
Prescriptions carefully compounded by registered pharmacists. We are sales agents for Norris Exquisite Candies. We have a full line of
Tobacco. COME TO SEE US. Satisfied Customers are our Best Advertisement.

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

All individual pictures for the Annual must be made again. Be sure to have yours made promptly. Mr. Moose, the
photographer, will be in the old library room Dec. 7 and 8.

HAVE YOU EVER NOTICED that in any game where a ball is used in a competitive way, that the official
ball always bears this trademark, whether it be FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL, INDOOR BASEBALL, LACROSSE, BASEBALL, or any other athletic game? There
must be a reason for this universal adoption by the leading organizations connected with sports, and there is a reason—no
one can make them as good. The same argument applies to all things athletic. CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
G. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed & Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.
