i) The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams... ..... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick.......... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
E. F. Faw
L. W. Kluttz
W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

J. H. Carson

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

MR. BLYTHE'S APPEAL.

On the first page of this issue will be seen a letter from Mr. F. L. Blythe, the President of the Alumni Athletic Association, to the Davidson students and especially to the Alumni. He shows how the excellent coaching this fall has produced a winning and fighting football machine. Then he looks to next spring, when Davidson will be expected to keep up the same record in baseball. Whether she will or not depends on the Alumni.

There have been no two coaches in the South this fall more capable than Mr. Fetzer and Mr. Harris. They have instilled football into every nerve of the players. They have injected a fighting spirit into every man. They have inspired the confidence of the whole team and the whole student body. They are clean athletes and true gentlemen.

What of next spring? Mr. Fetzer will still have general charge of athletics but he will need an assistant baseball coach. At a moment's notice, a coach can be secured that would delight the heart of every Davidsonian. We know that the Alumni will not fail Davidson. Mr. Blythe appeals in his letter, but it is not his appeal only. It is the appeal of every Davidson man, student, and alumnus to his fellow, that together we shall work, and work now, for better athletics at Davidson.

Quo Vadis?

CAROLINA'S EXCUSES.

On last Saturday the University of North Carolina defeated the V. M. I. cadets 20 to 7. The Virginians put up a hard and snappy scrap and fought to the very last, but were overpowered by the weight and speed of the “Tarheels.” The outstanding stars for Carolina were Reid, Winston, Tayloe, and Foust. Mr. Bridges, the much-bragged-of Carolina quarterback, was sent in to general the team, and he certainly did blunder the game up for quite a while, and if his “Rep” is no better than he showed up, it is certainly a false one. It will be recalled that after the Davidson-Carolina game the previous week in Winston, when the “Red and Black Machine” outplayed Carolina at least two to one in the first half, and held their powerful team to two lonely touchdowns in the latter half of the game, that various and sundry excuses for their poor showing were set out.

But again just before the Vanderbilt game “Doggie” sent out reports that he did not have a regular first team backfield, that of six backs he had, there was little or no preference between them. Yet because of the fact that two or three of the players who were in the Georgia or Vandy games for a few minutes were crippled up, he directly contradicts his former statement with the hope of obscuring the real reason from the public. The Charlotte and Winston papers said it was a moral victory for Davidson. Take your medicine like a man, Carolina, and cut out your flimsy excuses. The players on whom they based their excuses were Bridges, Parker, and Fuller. Bridges had a chance to show what he “might” have done in last Saturday's game, and from the way he messed that game up, his absence from the Davidson game was a lucky occurrence for Carolina. The other mentioned as an excuse was Parker, and Mr. Parker surely had his opportunity to prove himself against V. M. I., but he couldn’t deliver what the papers had claimed for him. He not only did not star, but was not good enough to hold his position, and gave way to a player who played against Davidson the week before and who starred in both games. Fuller, in the S. C.-N. C. game, made the poorest showing of any player in the backfield. Homewood then was the only regular player out of the game, and it is said he is out for the rest of the season with a “watered knee,” so why place it all on a poor “cripple?” Besides, Fetzer had some men who were used in the Clemson and Citadel games who were not in that game. An impartial witness of the Ga.-U. of N. C., Davidson-U. of N. C., andV. M. I-U. of N. C. games has the following to say: “The fight put up by Davidson against Carolina was four times better than that made by U. of Ga. and twice better than that made by V. M. I.” Now, Carolina, you will have to base your lonely touchdowns, which were luckily gotten, and your small score, on something besides yourself. FRITZ.

AN APPEAL TO DAVIDSON ALUMNI.

The executive committee appointed last commencement has done great things for Davidson in athletics. Now it is necessary for all alumni to co-operate and pay their personal part of the obligations which the executive committee have made, believing the loyal alumni would back them up. Funds are due in by November 20 of this month. The alumni are paying entirely the salary of Assistant Coach Harris, and part on Fetzer's. If you have signed up, send in immediately, if not send $10, or $8, at once to C. B. Bailey, Davidson, N.C.

R. T. SCOTT CALLED HOME.

Mr. R. T. Scott, who is well known on the Hill, was called to his home in Virginia a few days ago on account of the illness of his father. Later it was learned that his father died just two days ago. The student body extends deep sympathy to Mr. Scott in his bereavement, and hopes that he may soon return to his work at Davidson.

LEPERIAN SOCIETY: SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday, November 19.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY.
Affirmative. Negative.
Craig. H. B. Weber
Clary Grey
Hunter Carson
Knox Henderson

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Edgerton Faw
Chambliss Carrol
Craig Burns
Douglas Gibbs

DECLAMATIONS AND ORATIONS, November 16.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY.
Howland Witt. H.
Rourk Hawkins
Smith, J. D., Jr. Morrison, H.
Warrior McBryde, T. Z.
Stone Finley, A. G.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Gignilliat Fountain
Hay Frazer
Hudson, G. A. Frierson
Faison Goldsmith

The regalias for the nine marshals arrived last week from Philadelphia and have been distributed. They are beautifully made. The Eumenean color is pink and the Philanthropic blue; the chief marshal’s regalia is white. The regalias will be in full view at Senior speaking.

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney. Phone 40.

WINE SAP APPLES, 30 cents per peck. See Geo. Robson, at Infirmary.

DAVIDSON BANQUET IN CHARLOTTE THANKSGIVING.

A Davidson Banquet is being planned in Charlotte for Thanksgiving night, after the Wake Forest-Davidson football game. The State Teachers’ Association will be in session in Charlotte at this time, and the University, the State Normal College, and others are planning to have similar banquets for their alumni and friends. Each plate at the Davidson banquet will cost one dollar. Details will be given in the next issue regarding the personnel of those who will attend, and the program of the evening.

The University of Virginia has quite a representation in Congress. There are nine Virginia alumni in the Senate and twenty odd in the House.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Anything in Felt or Leather Goods
FAW & CARTER

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty
Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON
HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS
New Stock, Correct Styles at low prices. European war has not increased our prices.
Our Line of Regal $4, $4.50 and $5 Shoes are the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the war has raised the price?

SAVE MONEY
We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods and Notions. The Swellest Styles of the Season. See us before you buy.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company