The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 1 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 8, 1914. NO. 2

Examination Schedule | Town Items of the Week | Literary Society Contests | The Week’s Rivals

Senior Examinations Begin May 4 Lower Classes, May 11.

The schedule for the Spring Examinations has been recently arranged by the Faculty Committee, of which Dr. Shearer is the
chairman. Senior Examinations will begin on May 4 and continue through the 9th. Examinations in the lower classes will commence
on Monday, May 11, and end on the 16th. All examinations have been crowded into two weeks this spring, owing
to the earlier Commencement, and this has necessitated both morning and afternoon sessions.

The following schedule, subject to minor changes due to conflicts, etc., has been drawn up by the Schedule Committee:

Senior Subjects
Monday, May 4, 2-5—Philosophy.
Tuesday, May 5, 9-12—English. 2-5—German.
Wednesday, May 6, 9-12—Physics. 2-5—Chemistry.
Thursday, May 7, 9-12—Social Science.
Friday, May 8, 9-12—Bible. 2-5—Mathematics. Applied Math.
Saturday, May 9, 9-12—History. 2-5—Law.

Lower Subjects
Monday, May 11, 2-5—Fr. Bible, Soph. Bible, Jr. Public Speaking.
Tuesday, May 12, 9-12—Greek A, Fr. Greek, Soph. Greek, Jr. Greek, Sr. French. 2-5—Fr. German, Math., Jr. Astronomy.
Wednesday, May 13, 9-12—Fr. Geometry, Soph. Biology, Jr. Biol., Jr. Education, Beginners’ Geometry. 2-5—Soph. Physics, Jr. Physics, Jr. Geology.
Thursday, May 14, 9-12—Fr. History, Fr. Latin, Soph. Latin, Italian. 2-5—Soph. Chemistry, Jr. Chemistry, Jr. Philosophy.
Friday, May 15, 9-12—Fr. Alg., Soph. Math., Jr. Math., Jr. Applied Math. 2-5—Jr. Economics.
Saturday, May 16, 9-12—Fresh English, Jr. History. 2-5—Jr. French, Jr. German, Beginners’ German.

COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS.

Hon. Josephus Daniels to Give Annual Address—Other Speakers.

Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy, will give the Annual Address, Monday, May 18. Mrs. Daniels will be with
him, it is hoped. They will be entertained by President and Mrs. Martin, taking lunch with them before leaving for
Charleston.

The Baccalaureate Sermon will be preached Sunday, May 17, by Dr. Theron H. Rice, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond. Dr.
A. D. P. Gilmour, of Chester, S. C., will address the Y. M. C. A. that night. Rev. W. E.
Hill, of Atlanta, will deliver the Annual Address to the Philanthropic Society, and Prof. Reed Smith, of the University of
South Carolina, will address the Eumenean Society.

DR. W. R. MINTER TO ADDRESS Y. M. C. A.

The Y. M. C. A. is fortunate in securing Dr. W. R. Minter to conduct the next regular Thursday night
service. Dr. Minter is pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Lincolnton, N. C., and is also extensively engaged in
General Missionary work.

The foundation is being laid for a new drug store, which will be built on the lot of Mr. J.
A. White, on Main street. Mr. White, of Mooresville, is the largest stockholder. The new drug store is located conveniently,
and will add much to the appearance of the town.

Dr. Lingle gave a very interesting lecture Saturday evening on “An Evening in France,” with visits to the famous Chateaux
on the Loire. The lecture was illustrated by stereopticon pictures of the world’s most famous castles, together with views of
some picturesque scenes in Paris and the French Provinces. The lecture was given for the benefit of the Davidson Public
School Library. It was not only interesting, but very instructive, as Dr. Lingle has toured France many times, and is
well acquainted with all phases of French history.

The Davidson Troop of Boy Scouts was organized about two years ago and has a membership of twenty. There are
two patrols, the Eagle and the Bear, under the leadership of Scoutmaster Richards. The Scouts are getting ready for some
hikes this spring, and several of the boys are hard at work for their first class badges. A prize contest,
open to all enlisted Boy Scouts of the town, will be held for the best composition on “How to Rid
Davidson of Flies and Mosquitoes.” The first prize will be the winner's choice of any book in “Every Boy's Library.”
Those entering the contest must hand their compositions to Scoutmaster Richards by noon on Monday, April 20. For any information
concerning the contest see Dr. Richards.

The young ladies of Davidson have organized a Basket Ball Association. A court has been built on the rear of
the lot of Mrs. V. W. Lingle. The money for equipment was made at a show given some time ago
entitled “When Pattie Went to Boarding School.” The following are playing: Misses Mary Parks and Elizabeth Gray, Susie Brady, Mildred
Johnson, Bertie Christenbury, Sarah Wooten, Kathryn Worth, Charlotte Potts.

Mrs. Lola Johnson entertained at a Charade party last Monday night in honor of Miss McCullas, of Raleigh, who was
visiting Miss Ann Payne.

Mrs. J. M. Worth had as her guests last Friday Misses Ernestine and Edith Bridges, of Wilmington, who have been
visiting friends in Charlotte for the past fortnight.

Mrs. A. G. Brenizer spent Sunday here with her mother, Mrs. C. R. Harding.

The Book Lovers’ Club has elected the following officers for next year: Mrs. A. M. Young, president; Miss Withers, vice-president,
and Mrs. Lola Johnson, secretary. The following is the program for the remainder of the year: April 10, Shakespearian lecture,
by Professor Fulton, at the home of Mrs. Douglas. April 24, The Gentleman of Verona, by Mrs. C. L. Grey,
at the home of Mrs. K. L. Currie. May 8, Contraband Papers, at the home of Mrs. A. Currie.

Mrs. Arthur Finley, of North Wilkesboro, spent two days with Mrs. Currie last week visiting.

Debates, Essayists and Fiction Contests.

The Fresh-Soph debate takes place in each of the societies Saturday night, April 11. Freshman and Sophomore members of each
society are eligible for this debate. The best speaker in each of the two debates (one in each society) is
awarded a medal by his society. The question this year is: ‘Resolved, That it is to the best interests of
American municipalities to own and operate their electric-light, gas and...traction plants." The Junior-Senior debate between the two societies on the
question, "Resolved: That in labor disputes workmen are justified in demanding as a condition of employment that their employers agree
to employ only members of trades union," is to take place Saturday night, April 25. The affirmative is to be
upheld by the Eumenean Society and the negative by the Philanthropic Society. Junior and Senior members of both societies are
eligible. The inter-society cup is to be awarded to the society winning this debate, and the best speaker on each
side is to be awarded a medal by his society. Names of those entering both these debates should be handed
to A. H. Elliott (Phi) or Bo. Pim. Pre CF). Each society offers a medal for the best essay written
by any of its members. The essays must consist of not more than thirty-five hundred words or less than fifteen
hundred words. Essays must be handed in to J. A. Cartker, of the Philanthropic Society, or F. J. Hay, Jr.
of the Eumenean Society, on or before April 15. The Fiction Contest is open to all members of both societies,
a medal being awarded to the writer of the best story. Articles for this contest must be handed in to
F. J. Hay, Jr. on or before April 15. All articles for the Essayist and Fiction contests should be in
sealed envelopes signed with fictitious names, also another envelope containing the real and fictitious names of the writer.

ANNUAL DEBATE WITH WAKE FOREST.
The second debate of the series with Wake Forest will be held in the auditorium of Salem College, Winston-Salem, Monday
night, April 13, at 8 p.m. The debate will be on the question: "Resolved: That all candidates for elective offices
in North Carolina should be nominated by a direct primary method modeled after the Wisconsin plan rather than by the
convention system." The affirmative will be upheld by Davidson, represented by H. M. Marvin and C. L. King, with F.
H. Smith as alternate, and the negative by Wake Forest, represented by E. P. Yates and J. W. Pritchard, with
J. P. Mull as alternate. A special train will leave Davidson at 9:24 a.m. the day of the debate, reaching
Winston-Salem at noon. A train will leave Winston-Salem the same night just after the debate. The rate for the round
trip, good only on the special trains, is $1.50. This will give an opportunity to attend not only the debate,
but the baseball game between Davidson and Winston-Salem that afternoon. The larger part of the student body ought to be
able to attend the debate, with these low rates for the trip. Especially when the presence of a large student
backing will mean so much to Davidson’s debaters. Each man should use every effort to be there.

Four Big Games
Yesterday at noon Coach Cook took the Varsity Squad off on the second trip of the season. Three games will
be played—Trinity this afternoon, Wake Forest tomorrow, and A. & M. on Friday. The following electric machine was taken: Crayton,
Somerville, Christenbury, Watkins, Walker, Elliott, Stough, Osteen, Currie, Panella, Anderson, Kluttz, Keesler, Withrington, Coach Cook and Manager Roberson.

Coach Cook has made an important change in the regular line-up, which is to strengthen the Varsity immensely. Stough has
been shifted to right field, and "Bo" Elliott is now looking through the bars. Stough had never caught any before
this spring and was considerably handicapped behind the bat, but as there was no one else out, Coach was forced
to try and develop the one out of him. Elbert has had practice in several Federal games and had not
intended coming out for Varsity this spring. Christenbury will play short in "Dutch's" place, who is still laid up with
his sprained ankle. The entire team showed a better batting eye and more "pep" in the last practice before leaving
than at any time yet. They are leaving full of the old-time Davidson spirit, with the determination to bring back
their three victories for their dear old alma mater. The first game is with Trinity, and the team went up
with "blood in their eyes" to take this first game, and thereby get even for the games we deserved to
win last Friday. The second game is with Wake Forest. The Baptist boys have not been showing up as well
thus far this season as they did last. But baseball is a funny thing and you can never tell which
way it is going to turn. They haven't too much love for the Presbyterians, and they will do their utmost
to overcome their greatest rival. The last game of the series is with A. & M. This year they have
an unusually fast fielding and heavy hitting team. The battery that will most probably work against the "Red and Blacks"
is Russell and Winston. They are unquestionably as good as can be found in any college in the South. It
is sure to be a hard-fought game. On Monday the team will play the Winston Leaguers. The "Twins" have a
strong team for this season. A special train will go up, and all who go are sure to have a
big time, besides seeing a good baseball game.

EASTER MONDAY GAME.
Special train to Winston-Salem on April 13. This is to be a big day. Baseball game in the afternoon, debate
that night, reception afterward. The "Twins" are managed by Clancy this season, and he has gotten together a promising bunch
of players. A large crowd is going to the debate to back up Marvin and King, and they will be
there for the game also.

BATTING AVERAGES.
Stough, 267; Currie, 250; Kluttz, 223; Crayton, 215; Osteen, 200; Christenbury, 188; Walker, 159; Somerville, 91; Keesler, 83. Watch all
averages rise in next issue.

(Other Sports on Page 4)
