The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. » DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 23, 1914. NO. 3

Gymnasium Now Being Remodeled.

Workmen Busy on Much Needed Improvements.

The Morrison Memorial Hall, the first floor of which is used for a gymnasium and the second floor for Y.
M. C. A. meetings, is now being thoroughly remodeled in the interior and in other respects is being made more
neat and attractive in appearance. The present building was erected in 1890, twenty-four years ago, in memory of Dr. Robert
H. Morrison, the first president of Davidson College, at a cost of about $4,000. On account of the present money
stringency and the further fact that Davidson expects to have, in a few years, a new and up-to-date gymnasium, the
contemplated improvements will not be as extensive as they otherwise would be—the whole outlay, perhaps, totaling not more than $600
or $800.

On the first floor, the balcony surrounding the old basketball court will be torn away and the large columns, four
on each side of the court, will be removed, leaving the second floor to be supported by large iron suspensions.
These columns, against which many Davidson basketball players have received unpleasant knocks, will be removed. Thus the length and width
of the present basketball area can both be increased by twenty feet, giving ample room for a basketball court of
the required dimensions. This addition will also be sufficient to give the gym classes room in which to perform. The
annex to the rear for shower baths will be recovered and the inside entirely renovated. The rear room upstairs, which
for several years has been utilized for dormitory purposes, will be fitted up with desks and used as a laboratory
for Junior and Senior applied math. These much-needed improvements, adding as they do much to the beauty and usefulness of
the gymnasium, are welcomed. The college hopes in a few years, however, to have one of the most beautiful and
modern gymnasiums in the State on its campus.

DR. WEATHERFORD TO SPEAK TONIGHT:

The regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. will be held tonight instead of Thursday night. The voluntary Bible
study course will be presented and the association is fortunate in having Dr. W. D. Weatherford, one of the foremost
Association leaders of the South, to speak. No man should fail to hear him. Many of the students are no
doubt acquainted with his books on the Negro problem. At the last meeting, eighty new members were received into the
Association. J. W. S. Gilchrist gave a vivid and forceful account of the Summer Y. M. C. A. Conference at
Blue Ridge, which the Davidson men attended. The outlook for the year’s work is most bright. The attendance on the
Thursday night meetings has been excellent. W. A. McIlwaine, chairman of the Devotional Committee, is arranging an interesting and helpful
program for the year.

Davidsonian readers will be interested to know that Tim Pharr, who was contemplating taking an M.A. at Davidson this year,
has gone to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond. Mr. Robt. W. McKay ('16) was initiated into the Kappa Sigma Fraternity a
few days ago.

The Week.

The two local firms that buy cotton, the Brown-Knox Mercantile Company and M. H. Goodman & Co., have announced their
intention of doing their full share of the work in supporting the local market. The first firm has forwarded circulars
to its customers to the effect that up to two hundred (200) bales they will accept cotton at 10 cents
per pound on merchandise, fertilizer accounts, or in trade, no cash to be paid, and not over two bales to
the customer at the 10 cent figure. In order to assist their customers to carry their cotton, they have made
arrangements with their bankers to advance them 8 cents on two hundred (200) additional bales. This cotton is to be
used on collections only. The latter firm makes the same offer, but to the present date has not decided how
long they will make this offer. They have made no arrangements to assist their customers to carry over their cotton.
The same offer that is being made by the above merchants is being tendered to farmers in a number of
small towns throughout the State. The effect of this offer was shown the first day by the fact that fifteen
bales were delivered to the Brown-Knox Company, it being the first for the week.

TOWN TOPICS.

Miss Leulie Baskerville left Monday for Fredericksburg, Va., where she will spend the remainder of the winter with relatives. Mr.
R. O. Alexander, class of '70, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Thursday. Mr. George Worth, class of '11, and
now studying law in New York, was a visitor here Friday of Mrs. J. M. Worth. Among the Charlotte motorists
who came up Thursday were Misses Ella Adelaide and Sarah Moseley. Mr. Charley Lambeth passed through here recently on his
way to Charlotte. Mrs. Thomas Wharey is here for some time visiting Mrs. R. I. Gray before her return trip
to Montreat. Mrs. B. J. Witherspoon, Miss Lula Holmes Carson, and Mesdames R. E. Glasgow and C. M. Carson were
visitors here Saturday, motoring up from Charlotte. A new Mission Sunday school has recently been opened up in Delburg district
by the Presbyterian Sunday school. Mr. John Reid is superintendent. Mrs. Hyde and daughter, Miss Amey Herrick, and Miss Angie
Wilmot, of Crystal River, Fla., are visiting Mrs. C. K. Herrick at the home of Mrs. Cranford. Mrs. Hyde is
the mother of "Kid" Herrick, who graduated in '12. Misses Mary Richards, Louise Manning, Irene Hudson, and Mildred Johnston, and
Messrs. George Hudson, Ray Howland, William Neal, and Marion Boggs, spent a delightful afternoon last Saturday on a picnic to
the Beach Tree. Mrs. P. A. Kelly has been visiting at the home of Mrs. J. M. Potts.

Managers.

The series of Lyceum attractions whichis being planned for this season, contains some unusually good offerings. Manager Carter announces that
although final arrangements have not been completed, the opening number in Davidson will be given about October 10. Four attractions
have already been secured. These include the following, under the management of the Redpath Lyceum Bureau: Mr. Alton Packard, The
Weatherwax Brothers, Mr. Wm. Rainey Bennett, and the Military Girls. Mr. Packard has made repeated appearances in many of our
leading cities and has been well received. His sketches and renditions are humorous indeed, and should be enjoyed. The Weatherwax
Brothers, a quartet, have made quite a reputation for themselves and come highly recommended. The program rendered by these gentlemen
includes instrumental and vocal selections and readings. William Rainey Bennett's lectures have received complimentary comments from men of note throughout
the country. He deals with topics that are of national importance today, and whichever one he elects to deliver here
will contain much that will be of interest and lasting benefit. The program offered by the Military Girls will contain
something new and distinctive in Lyceum work. This feature is a reproduction of scenes that recall the early pioneer days
of our country. A Fife and Drum Corps and orchestral work are also an important feature of this program. In
regard to the additional attractions: If a sufficient number of season tickets are sold, several other numbers will be booked.
For the benefit of the new men, as well as for that of the old, it should be stated that
these courses are arranged by the managers of the Y.M.C.A. for the benefit of every student and citizen of Davidson
without any pecuniary gain to themselves. So when asked to buy a ticket, everyone can rest assured that they will
receive full value. Let everyone get one and so enable the manager to book two or three other fine attractions
for the Hill.

GLEE CLUB SECURES DIRECTOR. Mr. John George Harris, director of the Charlotte Glee Club, has been secured by the Davidson
College Glee Club to train this organization for the coming year. Work was begun last Monday morning with an initial
membership of twenty-five men, but it is expected that others will join before the next meeting. Mr. Harris will devote
an hour and a half to this work every Monday morning, drilling the members in the fundamentals of sight singing
and also training them in special part songs. There is a membership fee of 50 cents a month, and the
organization is open to everyone. From this number, the quartet and a few picked voices will be chosen by Mr.
Harris to accompany the Orchestra on its trips. Besides this, there will be several concerts on the Hill given by
the entire club.

Messrs. I. W. S. Gilchrist and W. M. Shaw in “beautiful decorations” paraded the streets on Monday in Gryphon Initiation.

Work to Get Ready. Of course, everyone wants to know who will be played Saturday. Never before has it been
as difficult to get early games. This is due to the fact that such teams as usually play early have
stopped playing football. Among these are Catawba, Lenoir, Mt. Pleasant, the Deaf and Dumb, and a few other colleges. Horner
Military Institute just started practice yesterday and will not be in shape to give an early game. The manager, however,
is still in hopes and is determined to have some team here on September 26. The team will either be
Bingham or Piedmont. Last Saturday, several telegrams were exchanged with the University of Tennessee to play them the first game
on their grounds, but the date could not be arranged as they wanted the game on October 3. The open
date, October 24, will most probably be played with the Citadel, either in Charleston or some neutral point. There is
a possibility of its being played in Savannah. The Clemson “Tigers” will be here Saturday week, and the contest is
sure to be one of the hardest contests ever played between these two institutions. Everybody in the football world knows
Bob Williams, and this means that the “Tigers” will be well coached. Carson, a former star, and Gantt will be
his assistants. Some of Clemson’s last year material graduated, and a few others did not return. Among these are Logan,
DuRant, Carson, Gandy, and one or two others. Of last year’s Varsity, Webb, Schilleter, James, Bristol, Stribling, Jones, Randall, Littlejohn,
Mier, and much available new material. The Citadel has one of the strongest teams they have had for several years,
and the probable contest with them will be a hard one, wherever it is played. Coach George Rogers has as
assistants three or four star Alumni players. The University of South Carolina is weak this year in old men to
return, but some of them may yet come back. At present, the following have not returned: Van Kalnitz Captain, McGowan,
“Big” Mills (too bad he won't get to pitch against Davidson again), Sligh, Wehman, and Boulware; Dan Heyward is expected
to be back soon. Carolina's opening game is to be played on September 30 with Furman. This game precedes the
Georgia Tech game on October 4. Coach Edgerton, known here as “Red,” is sure to develop out of the promising
new material, a good team. He is ably assisted by Castella, a football star of wide reputation. The game on
November 19 will be a warm one, Davidson must recover last year’s defeat on her own grounds. The University of
North Carolina has the most promising prospects in the history of that institution. They have a strong coaching staff in
Head Coach “Doggie” Trenchard. Bluthenthal and Cunningham are two of the best assistants to be found. They claim to be
in two weeks’ better condition than they were this time last Fall. In the first line-up of the “Bull Dogs”
there were: ends, Homewood and Grimsley; tackles, Ramsey and Jones; guards, Cowell and Foust; center, Vandy; quarter, Allen; halves, Taylor
and Fuller; Ervin, full. There is an abundance of new material there to develop also. The contest in Winston will
be a hard one, but with the “old Davidson pep” which has been (Continued on page 4)

Buy Your Season Lyceum Tickets Friday Night, $2.00
