The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

Fk. OW. Prices........ Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
P. Z. Patrick......... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville...... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton
Q. H. Carson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

CAMPUS LEAGUE.

The ladies of the town have been diligent and enthusiastic in their organization of a Civic League for the improvement
of the appearance of the streets and sidewalks. They have furnished receptacles for trash and papers, and have been persistent
in their requests that all unite in an effort to keep the town clean. They are meeting with fair response,
which the men of the college could do much to better. A Campus League that would extend this work of
the Civic League to the college grounds is just as much needed. We are so in the rut of throwing
aside envelopes, paper wrappers, peanut bags, and Peter's chocolate papers wherever we happen to be when we are through with
them, that we seldom realize how the edges of the walks look to visitors. Better to cram our pockets till
we reach a waste basket than to make a waste basket of the campus. True, a certain old darkey makes
a faithful round of the grounds every day, and gathers what scraps he can see on the pointed end of
a fifty-year-old stick. But to see our librarian have to stoop often and pick up a piece of paper which
some student has carelessly thrown away on the grass should at least shame every man into doing his part to
keep the campus attractive and beautiful.

COME ON, TIGERS!

Next Saturday the mighty Clemson “Tigers” will meet the Red and Black Electric Machine on the Davidson gridiron. Two teams,
ancient rivals, will clash, and two eminent coaches, “Bob” Fetzer and “Bob” Williams, will match their football wits. The result
of this game's outcome cannot be estimated. A victory for Davidson would send the team forward through the rest of
the season with a mighty impetus, and inspire confidence in players and supporters. Clemson will come with a team picked
from a student body of over seven hundred and a squad of about eighty, and the Red and Black will
have to fight to win. But she will fight, and the fight will be fruitless unless the whole college as
a body will stand behind the fighting machine with a determined and invincible enthusiasm and spirit, that will send it
down the field and across the goal-line. Come on, Tigers!

A REPORTERS’ STAFF.

The Davidsonian staff has decided to open the competition for places on the staff to men of all the three
lower classes on the following basis: This year, early in November, a reporters’ staff will be chosen from all those
who are now trying and will try out for the paper. These reporters' names will be printed just below those
of the editorial staff. Next March, when the editor-in-chief and manager are elected for the following year, an editorial staff
will be chosen by the outgoing staff and new editor from the reporters’ staff. In this way, every man will
be fully and well equipped for the work of the editorial staff, and will feel if he is selected to
the position, that he has worked for it, and that his honor is worth having. Already fifteen to twenty Sophomores
have submitted their names as contestants in the competitive test. Now that it is open to every class that will
be here next year, a large number should work for a place on the reporters’ staff in November. Hand in
your name to the assistant editor and you will be given assignments.

Send your Davidsonians home. They will be interested in what Davidson is doing.

CONTRIBUTED.

Somewhere a bard has sung: “The old order changeth, yielding place to new,” etc. and in reflecting on the old
order of things asThey were a few years back here at Davidson. We recall that feature of old times that
had to do with the sale of athletic goods. In those days, there was no such thing as "The Commissary;"
athletic goods were handled by individual agents scattered over the campus—one in Chambers, another perhaps in Georgia, or a third
in Watts. Nobody kept a half-complete stock. Students found it very refreshing and exhilarating to run from first one building
to the other in the attempt (usually vain attempt) to get anything bordering on what they wanted in the athletic
line. Then, too, there was the feature of profit. The different agents pocketed all that was profit—and in one or
two instances, through some oversight, pocketed some that was not profit. But that is another story.

Then in the course of time (about two years ago), the Mother of Invention presided over a group of students
comprising the Executive Committee of the Davidson College Athletic Association, who conceived the idea of operating all these agencies under
one management, carrying a complete line of goods, and furnishing to all regular teams their equipment at cost, and turning
a part of the profit accruing from such business into the coffers of the Athletic Association. The present Commissary is
the result of this scheme, and the result of the Commissary is that last year the football and baseball teams
were equipped by the Association for what the goods cost, and the Commissary turned over nearly enough profit to pay
for this equipment, with the further result that the Association was given a big boost. With the continued good management
of the teams, and with the continued support of the student body, the managers of the teams and of the
Commissary should clear the Association of debt, and put out teams that, in appearance, may be equaled but not surpassed
by any with which they come in contact.

SCHEDULE - LITERARY SOCIETY

The following men are scheduled to speak in the Literary Societies next Saturday night and Monday morning:

Debate, Oct. 3.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Affirmative:
Faison
Frierson
Fraser
PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
Monroe
Ormand
Richardson
Finley, T. M.
Davis

Negative:
Hay
Fountain
Goldsmith
Overcash
Paisley
Rankin
Fairley
Scott, G. P.

Orations and Declamations, Oct. 5.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Dumas
Johnson, W. A.
Hudson, G. A.
Hudson, D. V.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY
Havegood
Hamilton
Hobson
Humphrey

September 30, 1914

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

Last week, "The Davidsonian" managers received a subscription for two years from an alumnus of the class of 1912. Effective
years do not weaken the loyalty and love of Davidson men.

WANTED: To buy your shoes from Lowenberg. His agent will be here October 6, 7, and 8. Come in and
look his line over. Carter and MacDonald, No. 7 Ga.

WANTED: Every student in college to read the National Woolen Mills Adv., America’s largest tailors. Back the advertisers who are
backing us.

Mr. Campbell B. Fetner, class of 1912, now practicing law in Charlotte, was married last Wednesday to Miss Vida Mauney
of Cherryville, N.C.

Mr. J. M. Williams (Socrates) has become associated with Mr. Brevard Nixon of Charlotte, N.C., in his legal work.

WANTED: To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED: To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte. When in Charlotte, always stop at Hotel Stonewall.

PLACE YOUR ORDER: Don’t go anywhere until you have seen our fall line of imported woolens. $15 up. Perfect fit
guaranteed. Tailored to measure for college styles a specialty. National Woolen Mills, 221 West Trade St.

WANTED: To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

FELLOWS: You can get a heavy or light weight raincoat at Armour Bros. and Thompson's for $3.50.
