Fruits, Confectioneries ALUMNI NOTES. miles from Black Mountain, N.C. The DAVIDSONIAN. October 28, 1914

We are selling the famous Elizabeth College and Conservatory of Music for Women CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Now's The Time Arrange for taste and purposes elegantly equipped. For college OF MUSIC, In separate building. HEALTH. Particular attention is paid to the health of students. Private dairy, laundry, etc.

Stieff Pianos Used Exclusively For particulars inquire of REV. CHAS. B. KING, President

We desire to announce that all next week we shall have with us a noted beauty specialist from the famous Harmony Toilet Goods Laboratories at Boston. We cordially invite you to meet her at our store and to become acquainted with these delicate toilet-necessities. She will also be glad to call upon you at your home, by appointment, and illustrate the delightful uses to which these products may be particularly adapted.

The Rexall Store

STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, and other good “Eats”

SCOFIELD'S Cleaning and Pressing Prompt and Efficient Service

W. G. SOMERVILLE, Manager

Job Printing on Short Notice See DAVID V. HUDSON, Agt.

Announcements have just been issued of the marriage of Rev. A. McLean ('07) to Miss Hallie Spexart, of Lane Wolf, Oklahoma. Mr. McLean is pastor at the Presbyterian church at Clover.

W.C. Hall ('17) is at Trinity College this year.

The alumni of Winston Salem have been busy lately getting ready for the game there Saturday. Mr. Taylor writes that the alumni of that city will be there in full force, and also adds that they are hoping that Davidson may be...“THE OLD RELIABLE: able to close a deal to get Clancy here next spring to coach baseball. The Winston men have been working on this for some time and are very enthusiastic about it.

The Best on the Hill

COTTAGE CAMPAIGN BEGUN.

Give Us a Trial

During his recent visit to Davidson, Dr. W. Weatherford spoke to the student body of the activities at Blue Ridge, the Y Conference grounds, and of the plans whereby each of the larger colleges of the South is to own its own cottage there. Davidson now is given an opportunity to be one of these colleges.

The Blue Ridge property consists of nearly a thousand acres in the heart of the “Land of the Sunset Sky,” just three miles from Black Mountain, N.C. Mountain climbing, swimming, baseball, and tennis add to the pleasure of the conferences, and every man who attends one of them is enthusiastic in its praise.

This year, Queens College offered to pay half the expense of building a cottage if Davidson would pay the other half. This is the plan now being carried out by most of the colleges, and it works with splendid success, since the Y.W.C.A. Conference is held during the first part of June, and the Y.M.C.A. Conference comes during the latter part of that month. The cottages have accommodations for fourteen, with sleeping porch arrangements for eight more. They are furnished with heat, electric lights, etc., and are exceedingly comfortable. The great advantage in owning a cottage lies in the possibility of gathering each college delegation together more closely. The complete cost is $1,000; Queens College has raised her $500. An active campaign will be waged during the coming week to get subscriptions for Davidson’s share.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Washington and Lee — Washington and Lee met Georgetown in Richmond and inflicted upon them an overwhelming defeat, carrying off a score of 13 to 0. Dr. Poteat, of Wake Forest, addressed the students of Washington and Lee Thursday night, October 15, on the subject of “The New Patriotism.” His address was greatly enjoyed by all.

Wake Forest — Washington and Lee met Wake Forest on the gridiron Saturday and made a score of 72, while Wake Forest had to be contented with zero. The “Red and Black Machine” is doing some hard work now, and everyone is confident that they will take a good score from the Baptists.

Citadel — The Red and Blacks went to Charlotte Saturday and just walked over those Citadel fellows.

Vanderbilt — Mr. Eugene Sloan, a prominent member of the Senior law class, was elected president of the Y.M.C.A. and entered upon his duties Monday, October 19. A monster mass meeting was held Friday night to arouse spirits for the Carolina game. The Vandy fellows just could not conceive of the idea of getting beat by the Tar Heels, but they had to get it in their head Saturday evening, when the Tar Heels met them on the gridiron and defeated them by the score of 10 to 9.

Repair Work of all Kinds. Good and Quick Service

Rubber Stamps ——for all purposes—— Printed Matter of All Descriptions

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY STATESVILLE, N.C. Oldest established house on the Hill

I. A. MULLEN, Agent

AUTO HIRE FOR CHARLOTTE, STATESVILLE, CONCORD, SALISBURY Or ANYWHERE at ANYTIME See H.B. Mahew At Mahew Pressing Club

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N.C.

REMEMBER On Monday morning to put your laundry out, your name on it and mark it for us

Charlotte Steam Laundry W. Y. SAYAD, Agt. No. 7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing