The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 1 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 15, 1914. NO. 3

Davidson Defeats Wake Forest in Debate. Wins Cup by Second Victory at Winston-Salem.

The second debate of the series with Wake Forest in competition for the cup offered by the Winston-Salem Board of Trade and Salem College, was held in the Memorial Hall, Salem College, Winston-Salem, at 8:30 last night, April 13. Mr. R. H. Latham, of the Winston-Salem schools, presided. After the entrance of the debaters upon the stage, to the march played on the pipe organ by Miss A. Sorsby, the exercises were opened with a prayer by Dr. H. E. Rondthaler.

The question for debate was: “Resolved, That all candidates for elective offices in North Carolina should be nominated by direct primary modeled after the Wisconsin plan, rather than by the convention system.” The affirmative was upheld by Davidson, represented by H. M. Marvin and C. L. King, with F. H. Smith as alternate. The negative was upheld by Wake Forest, represented by J. M. Pritchard and E. P. Yates, with J. P. Mull as alternate.

The first speaker, Mr. Marvin, began his speech by clearly outlining and showing the differences between the system which now exists and the Wisconsin direct primary system. He pointed out that the duty of the negative was not to defend the existing convention system in North Carolina, but the convention system as a whole. He then showed that the convention system is inadequate: First, because it is not representative of the people, because the voter can only select the delegates to the county convention, who in turn select other delegates to the State convention, these delegates in no case being pledged to support any particular candidate. Consequently, the voter has little voice in choosing the nominees for office. Again, the convention system is not representative of the people because such a small proportion of the voters who vote in the final elections vote in the primaries, this statement being borne out by several striking examples. The convention system is not representative, too, because the convention is not instructed, nor is it a deliberative body. Second, because the convention can be dominated by a boss, citing instances of the methods used to overrule motions or ignore votes. Third, because North Carolina can never realize the full benefits of the democratic government unless her people are interested in elections. Under the convention system there is little interest, because the voter realizes how little his vote can accomplish. Not that North Carolina has failed with the convention system, but that new conditions are arising, large corporations are entering the State and she needs the new system for her new needs. Mr. Marvin also made the statement that in answer to personal letters, every North Carolina Congressman had declared himself in favor of the direct primary system.

Mr. Pritchard opened the debate for the negative with a statement of the success of the convention system in North Carolina for the past hundred years. He then, before going on with his proof, stated the points which the negative claimed must be proved by the affirmative, namely, that the convention system in North Carolina has been a hopeless failure and that the direct primary is the remedy for this failure. He then went on to show that the conven- (Continued on page 3.)

Town Items of the Week

At a recent meeting of the stockholders of the White-Jetton Drug Company, several important changes were made. Dr. Martin, who was formerly president, has resigned, and Mr. J. A. White, of Mooresville, who was vice-president, was made president, and is the largest stockholder. Mr. Will and Monroe Jetton have withdrawn from the firm.

The Davidson Civic Club held its regular meeting last Tuesday in the Civic Club rooms.

The prize offered by Miss Maud Vinson to any of her pupils for the best essay on “How to Rid Davidson of Flies and Mosquitoes,” was won by George Bitzer.

Rev. and Mrs. Walsh, of Statesville, spent several days last week with Dr. and Mrs. Richards.

Mrs. A. B. Young gave a delightful reception last Friday for Mrs. C. M. Payne, of Washington, N. C. The house was beautifully decorated and delicious refreshments were served by Misses Hood and Payne.

At a recent meeting of the Young Women's Missionary Society, held at the home of Miss Hattie Flow, Miss Florence Barnes was elected president.

Within the next two weeks the Davidson High School will present a play entitled “The Merchant of Venice Up-to-date.” They have been diligently practicing for it during the past week, and present indications are that it will be a great success. It will be given in the Shearer Hall.

DAVIDSON WINS DOUBLES—LOSES SINGLES.

Davidson's tennis team, D. C. Crawford and W. H. Cranford, met University of South Carolina's team in Columbia last week. They were victorious in doubles, carrying off two out of three games. Scores, 3-6, 6-0, 10-8. They were less fortunate in singles, both of them losing in hard matches.

FIELD DAY.

Saturday, April 18, is the date set apart for the Annual Field Day at Sprunt Field. This year the competition should be very keen, with the Sophs and Juniors having a slight advantage. Every student should be out with enthusiasm and spirit and back his class. Several of the records below are expected to be broken. The officials have not yet been selected, but Dr. Arbuckle, Dr. J. W. McConnell, Dr. J. M. Douglass will probably be among those selected. An invitation will be sent to the Queens College student body, and their presence will add pleasure and zest to the day. As usual, a whole holiday will be granted, and one of the best Field Days should be held this week.

“ON TO CHARLOTTE.”

Let the above be the by-word for the U. of N. C. game to be played in Charlotte on Tuesday, April 21. The Faculty has granted one-half day off for the game down there, and as this is the only game with this team, and will be the best game on the schedule, every student, and every member of the Faculty must be there toBack up the Red and Black machine. “On to Charlotte!” College Golf Course. Mr. T. Bonnar, of Scotland, and Mr. W. H. Paul, of the Mecklenburg Country Club, gave the Davidson Golf Club a splendid send-off in a very close and exciting exhibition game on Saturday afternoon, April 11. The weather was ideal and the gallery was a large and enthusiastic one, following the game with great interest from start to finish. Considering the fact that the Fair Greens are as yet in rough condition and the Putting Greens quite uneven, the game was as fine an exhibition of golf as we ever see. The game was won by Mr. Bonnar in 82. Mr. Paul finished in 83, but made it about even by taking the second nine holes in 38, which is within one of Bogey.

The Davidson College Golf Club has just been organized this spring. The following officers were elected: H. B. Arbuckle, president; A. Currie, secretary; and J. Moore McConnell, treasurer. The rapidity with which the course was gotten into shape for play is due to the support the officers of the club have received from the College students, who turned out forty strong to work on the course. The Golf Club should mean much to this community and the College. The officers of the club are particularly interested in bringing the students into the club and have extended to them most liberal terms. The admission and upkeep fee for college students is only $3, payable on entrance. For those who join this spring, the treasurer will give a credit of $2 on next session's fee. Any student can play the game very well with three clubs, which can be bought from the club for $5. No college in the South is at present sending out a golf team, and it will mean much to Davidson and to the students to be represented in a few of our Southern tournaments next year. The distance of the course in yards: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 235 120 174 272 440 222 190 132 255 —2050

The game was eighteen holes, two rounds of the course, and was very close from start to finish. On the first round, Mr. Paul was unfortunate in driving two balls out of bounds on the second hole and two balls out of bounds on the fifth hole. In spite of this, he won three holes and halved two. On the second round, he recovered himself nicely, taking two holes in three strokes, and making four holes in four strokes. The beautiful driving of Mr. Bonnar and the marvelous mid-iron shots of Mr. Paul drew frequent applause from the gallery. A few of Mr. Paul’s putts were great, considering the condition of the Putting Greens.

ANNUAL COMING SOON. “Quips and Cranks” is expected to appear the first of the next week. There will be only a limited number of extra copies, and orders should be placed for these at once by those who have not already ordered their Annuals. Orders should be placed with E. Q. Pharr, J. E. Faw, or W. Morrison. The “Quips and Cranks” of 1914 promises to be one of the best and most interesting ever published by Davidson. H. M. Marvin has been a hard-working editor, and many have assisted him faithfully. Every man in college should own a copy, not only for his own immediate pleasure and the pleasure of the friends at home, but for the pleasure it will give him in future years when he wishes to review the memories of “college days.”

Triumphs Over State Champions. “Red and Blacks” Fight Hard, But Lose in Ninth to Both Trinity and A. & M.

TRINITY GAME. On Wednesday, Davidson outplayed the Methodist lads in every stage of the game, but as has been the case in the last four games, luck broke the other way. The Red and Blacks had 14 left on bases and several times 3 on, and although 10 bingles were registered, still when one was really needed it could not be found. Trinity certainly played with “horse-shoes in their pockets.” The soft sandy infield proved a great handicap to the Davidson infielders, who were used to a fast hard diamond. Of Trinity's 5 hits, 3 of them were infield hits which could have been cut off on the Sprunt Athletic diamond. The ump was very much off and “stung” Davidson several times on bases, and on many strikes. No one who saw the game hesitated to say that with only a mediocre bit of luck Davidson would have won by a good margin. Davidson scored in the seventh. After Christy had hit a two-bagger, and advanced on Kluttz’s out, he scored on Crayton’s ball, which was errored by the pitcher. The second run came in the ninth, when Kluttz was safe on an infield hit, stole second and advanced to third on Crayton’s hit. Then Stough poled the next one out for three sacks, Kluttz scoring and Pete being caught at the plate. Osteen was safe on first, but the next batter struck out and retired the side. In the second there were two on and none down, but the next three flied out. In the sixth the bases were drunk, but the next batter fanned. In the eighth the sacks were loaded, but a double play from home to first cut off the scores here. Trinity scored two in the second—two getting safe on infield grounders, and one walking. The next batter bunted down the third base line, and (Continued on page 4.)

CALENDAR OF WEEK'S EVENTS.

Wednesday, April 15 Senior-Soph game. Davidson-U. of S. C. game at Columbia.

Thursday, April 16 Installation of officers at Y. M. C. A. Davidson-U. of S. C. game at Columbia. Soph-Junior game.

Friday, April 17 Fresh-Senior game.

Saturday, April 18 Field Day “Queens” on the Hill. Scrub Team plays Mt. Pleasant off the Hill.

Sunday, April 19 Preaching at 11 am and 7:30 pm Y. M. C. A. Cabinet meeting at 1:00 pm.

Monday, April 20 Junior-Senior game.

Tuesday, April 21 Davidson-U. of N.C. at Charlotte.

Wednesday, April 22 Alumni issue of “The Davidsonian” appears.