2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

J. O. W. Price... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams... Assistant Editor
P. L. D. Patrick... Business Manager
J. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
Norman Johnson
L. R. Faw
L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine
J. G. Patton

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

J. H. Carson
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

DAVIDSON’S INITIAL VICTORY
Even Davidson's opponents last Saturday were forced to concede that the tie game with Clemson was virtually a victory for
the Red and Black Machine on account of the tremendous odds against it, and the undeniable superiority which it showed
in the last half. All the more will Davidson men everywhere claim it a victory, and will rejoice in the
splendid opening of the '14 season. Davidson is proud of its team and its coaches, and of the irresistible fighting
spirit which has awakened from its seven-year slumber, never to sleep again. March on!

SATURDAY'S CHEERING
The rooting at the Saturday game was the best organized and most effective for years. The student body was lined
up on one entire side of the field, and there were five cheer-leaders. Did you try crossing to the other
side and listening to it from there? It was thunderous, and to this mighty cheering when Clemson was sweeping toward
our goal in the first quarter, "Hold 'em Davidson!" is due, in large part, the stone wall defense which Davidson
put up under the shadow of her goal posts, the only time she was in danger.

FIVE CENTS A COPY
A hundred extra copies of this issue have been issued, as many will want extra accounts of the game and
copies of the cartoon by Russell Minter on the front page. They may be had at The Davidsonian office Wednesday
afternoon at 5 cents per copy.

FOOTBALL AND LIFE
A clean football game is a picture of the game of life, as it ought to be. Every man is
playing not for his own interest, but for the glory of a common cause. Everyone has a part and a
big part. If a man is not running with the ball or leading the attack, he is running interference for
those that do. Courage and grit and self-control are prime factors. If men would put into their battle of life
the fire and fight that the football warrior puts into a gridiron game, there would be some mighty victories scored
instead of crushing defeats.

ACTUAL WORK ON ANNUAL BEGUN
Assignments have been made to the staff for work for this year's issue of Quips and Cranks, and already new
ideas have begun to show themselves. The staff is as capable and efficient a one as can be found anywhere,
and some good material is expected from them. Editor-in-chief McIlwaine was in Massachusetts last summer and made a special point
of looking up all the college annuals he could find for new ideas and special features, and he hopes to
make...

The DAVIDSONIAN. October 7, 1914

WANT ADS

S.C. CLUB TO FEAST
The South Carolina Club, which was organized a few days ago and elected officers, at their last meeting decided to
have a great feast on next Monday night, October 12, at 9:30 p.m., in Eumenean Hall. Besides simply feasting, the
Palmettoes intend having a few short talks from several members. At the last meeting, there were about seventy-five present. The
purpose of the club is, first, for closer fellowship of all South Carolinians; second, to advertise our new State; and
last, to organize a systematic working force in that State to bring new men to this college. As a special
feature, this club will have a debating, basketball, baseball, and track team, and will challenge any other State club represented
here.

ELECTION OF MARSHALS NEXT MONDAY
The election of marshals for the coming year will take place in the literary societies next Monday morning. The race
this year promises to be an interesting one, for there is no lack of candidates in both societies. Four assistant
marshals will be chosen from the Philanthropic Society this year and four assistants and the chief marshal from the Eumenean
Society. The election is always well attended, for the most interesting part comes toward the last of the meeting when
the whole society enjoys a feast at the expense of those who are elected.

DR. W. R. DOBYNS COMING
Dr. W. R. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., will reach Davidson October 14 to conduct the regular Fall Campaign. Dr.
Dobyns is a wonderful speaker, appealing in a unique way to college men.Many would rank him above Robt. E. Speer
in the wonderful power of his personality. It is said that audiences, after being held with strange power by his
words, will leave the hall in silence and walk for some distance through the streets before a word is spoken.
Davidson is indeed fortunate to have such a man for six days, October 14th through the 20th. As a striking
evidence of the good attendance and interest shown in Y. M. C. A. work this year, the regular Thursday night
services are being held and will continue to be held in Shearer Hall. It was a glad day when the
Davidson Y. M. C. A. outgrew the cramped, inadequate quarters occupied heretofore. Everyone is pulling for a new Y. M.
C. A., so great is the need.

PROF. CURRY ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.

Before one of the largest audiences ever assembled at the Y. M. C. A., Prof. A. Curry delivered a stirring
and eloquent address last Thursday evening. Professor Curry, always a very interesting speaker, was at his best Thursday night and
was given earnest attention by his audience, as with a master's hand he drew practical lessons from the taking of
Jericho by the Children of Israel.

One of the features of last Thursday night's meeting was the excellent singing, everyone joining in to their utmost. Mr.
Patrick, chairman of the Publication committee, announced that the Y. M. C. A. handbooks, which have been delayed by the
printer, will be on hand and delivered by Tuesday or Wednesday. A good delegation from Davidson will attend the State
Y. M. C. A. Conference at Elon College, October 3. Many excellent speakers and Y. M. C. A. workers will
be on hand and all who attend this conference will receive a treat of good things.

Among those coming up from Charlotte for the Clemson game were W. Tillet, C. A. Misenheimer, M. Jones, W. J.
Brown, C. Yonte, R. Peele, F. Ware, A. Riley, F. Thompson, N. Pharr, A. Myers, W. C. Alexander, F. L.
Bryan, E. S. Lipscomb, and E. Campbell.

ALUMNI NOTES

B. Brackington ('12) is taking a course at the Chicago-Kent College of Law.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

Robt. Hughes ('16) is attending the Atlanta College of Medicine.

"Dutch" Witherington is attending Wake Forest this year and is doing the punting for the football team there.

J. H. Hughes ('16) is studying dentistry at the Atlanta Dental College.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

The new grocery store which is being built by Mr. J. Lee Sloan is nearing completion. The front is very
attractive and the interior will be finished soon.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N.C. Kodak finishing. See A. Howland, 26 R.

When in Charlotte, always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

LOST—Pair of Gauntlets, with collapsible cuffs. Return to 27 Rumple and receive reward.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C. Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES.

Armour Bros. and Thompson Headquarters for everything in HABERDASHER GOODS Tie Specialties. We handle New Ties every week right off
Broadway. The Windsorette is the newest fad. 50c. for Ties well worth $1.00. See Our Line of Rain Coats, New
Stock, Correct Styles at low prices. European war has not increased our prices. Our $4.00, $4.50, and $5.00 Shoes are
the best. Why pay $6.00 and $7.00 for the same shoes to people who claim the war has raised the
price? Sweaters, Shirts, Collars, Hosiery, Hats, Caps, Etc. If you want to dress well and look best, trade with Armour
Bros. and Thompson.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners, Anything in Felt or Leather Goods FAW & CARTER NO. 6 RUMPLE.

GENTLEMEN! For your Rubber Stamps for all purposes, Printed Matter of All Descriptions BRADY PRINTING COMPANY STATESVILLE, N. C. Oldest
established house on the Hill! L. A. MULLEN, Agent.

Everitt-Waddy Co. STATI ONERY Ralston Shoes.

Tonsorial Work Stop at First Door Below Post Office Row! For sale by RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop. Howland & McKay.
