DAVIDSONIANS RETURN

Sage home on a Spanish boat sailing from abroad.

(Concluded from page 1)

While in Paris, the party visited the Louvre and had the pleasure of looking upon the original Mona Lisa, about
which so much has been written recently. Beside the beautiful paintings, there are world-famous pieces of sculpture, such as the
unsurpassed statue of Venus. One of the most interesting things noted in Paris, especially at this time, was the great
Military Review, the troops passing in review before the booth of President Poincare. A happy spirit of pride and confidence
was evident, which reached a climax when fourteen military aeroplanes soared above the field.

France has a right to be proud of her splendid fighting machine, for almost miraculous strides forward have been taken
since her misfortune of 1870, when Germany captured Paris. France has never forgiven Germany for those dark days, and as
a perpetual reminder, the French have erected a tomb-like monument in Paris, kept veiled in mourning, showing the national grief
over the loss of the French provinces, Alsace and Lorraine. As soon as war was declared against Germany, a howling,
patriotic mob snatched the mourning dress from the monument and decked it in the tricolor of France.

Another reminiscence of the war of 1870 is that Germany took the huge indemnity paid by France and deposited it
in great treasuries on the German border. This money has never been put into circulation but has been kept there
to use in the next war. Germany will have to dig to the bottom of the pile of gold, from
the appearance of things at present.

From Paris, the party cycled in a southeasterly direction, traveling at the rate of about forty miles per day over
the beautiful macadam roads of France. Among the places visited were Avignon, celebrated in history as “the place of the
Babylonish captivity of the Popes,” the Popes dwelling here instead of Rome. At Nimes, they saw the famous old Roman
amphitheater, where the great gladiatorial combats were held, and where Christian martyrs were often fed to the lions. Modern improvements
have penetrated even to the interior of this old amphitheater, for now electric lights have been installed and modern movies
are shown daily on the interior of this historic old pile.

While coasting down mountain grades, two of the cyclists met with mishaps. Charlie Fleming, while making a sharp turn, had
the misfortune of coming into sharp contact with Mother Earth. This necessitated a delay for him, and Malcolm Shirley assisted
him to the town of St. Flour, where they were treated with great kindness by the courteous French. Shirley gives
glowing accounts of a beautiful French girl at St. Flour. He blushingly declares she was an angel.

The party, united once more, journeyed on to Nice, on the shores of the Mediterranean. Here the most exciting time
of the trip occurred. Before reaching Nice, war was declared, and time after time the party was halted and examined,
so great was the fear of spies among the French. Mobilization was taking place with great swiftness, and soon every
bridge and culvert was manned by French soldiery. After many delays, the party reached Nice and engaged board at a
German hotel, only to be told in a few hours that they must go elsewhere, as the French government had
ordered all Germans and Austrians to leave France.

For a long time, it looked as though no passage for home could be obtained, so great was the demoralization
brought on by the war. The party spent the time in Nice, swimming in the Mediterranean, riding about the country,
and watching the troops leaving on every train, bound for the front. Great cheerfulness and confidence were shown by the
French as they left their homes and all that was dear to them, many leaving for the last time.

After weeks of anxiety, the “Davidsonians Abroad” managed to obtain passage to Spain. The men reached Davidson a little late
but were received with open arms by the student body. They have many interesting yarns to unwind about their trip,
and especially about the war. Congratulations are in order that our Davidsonians are back among the fold, safe and sound,
not having been riddled by German and French bullets.

Dr. Lingle talks interestingly about the war, predicting that it will last only six months. He says that Germany’s first
successes were like a boy starting at full speed to run a ten-mile race. Like the runner, Germany must soon
be exhausted because of her preliminary burst of speed. Then, says Dr. Lingle, the Allies will dictate the terms of
peace to poor Germany.

M. C.A. MEMBERSHIP RALLY WELL ATTENDED.

In response to the call for a membership rally, a large number of old and new students attended the first
meeting of the Young Men's Christian Association held in Shearer Hall last Thursday evening. A special program of talks and
music had been arranged, and much interest was manifested. A large reproduction of the emblem of the Association, with its
equilateral triangle of Spirit, Mind, and Body, hung on the wall at the back of the platform. This formed the
subject of the talks which were made by Coach Fetzer, Dr. Arbuckle, and Dr. Martin.

Coach Fetzer, in his quiet, forceful manner, spoke of the necessity for a well-trained body. He pointed out that it
was a part of the Christian’s duty to keep himself in the best condition possible; and that in this way
only could he accomplish the most good. The next speaker was Dr. Arbuckle, whose subject was the spiritual aspect of
the Association’s work. With an earnestness which evidenced his deep interest in the subject, he showed the fundamental necessity of
spirituality in the development of the all-round man. This, he said, is primary and should be found closely associated with
both the other branches of the work.

The final subject of the mind and its part in the work of the Y.M.C.A. was handled by Dr. Martin.
He showed the relation which a sound body, a right spirit, and a strong mind should bear to one another,
saying that each was dependent upon the others, and urging that everyone give serious consideration to the development of these
three essentials to a strong and useful life.

A male quartet composed of Messrs. Fowle, Ansley, Johnston, and McGeachy then sang “Immortal Love,” which in its melodic harmonies
and beautiful sentiment was very impressive. Following this, membership cards were passed through the audience and about fifty new men
signified their intention of joining the Association. These men, together with about forty who have joined since, and any others
who may wish to join at this time, will be regularly installed as members next Thursday night. Dr. Weatherford, the
General Student Secretary for the South, is expected to be present and have charge of the meeting.

FRATERNITY RULING.

The following resolution was passed at a recent meeting of the Pan-Hellenic Council and will go into effect immediately: “Resolved,
that Freshmen shall not be permitted to enter any fraternity hall during the Fall term, unless a lady is present
in the hall, except during Senior speaking.”

LIBRARY HOURS CHANGED.

Beginning this week, the library hours will be changed from 2:30 to 5 to from 12 m. to 1:30 p.m.,
and from 2:30 p.m. till 6 p.m. The reading room will be open from 8:30 a.m. till 8 p.m. instead
of to 6:30 p.m. This change will be welcomed as a great convenience by all the students.

While in Charlotte
Keep cool if you buy
Ice Cold Drinks from
TATE’S White Drug Co.
Agents for
Waterman's and
Parker's Fountain Pens
The best work by
Experienced Barbers
Full Line of
Eastman Kodaks and Films
STATIONERY
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

KEEP YOUR EYE ON THIS SPACE FOR NEXT WEEK
Something New Is Coming

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE
“AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

Satisfaction Combined makes clear the reason why SPALDING’S are outfitters to champions, whose implements must be invariably right. The Spalding
Trade-Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months.
Write for free illustrated catalogue.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right.
Open Every Day ’Till 12 P.M.

See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
“Watch the Light”
R. J. SHELTON.
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N.C.
