The DAVIDSONIAN. November 18, 1914

Why So Many Become Discouraged-- Nothing disheartens a player like trying to make progress on a “tin-panny” piano, or one with a hard action. Give Your Girl the Inspiration of a ‘Gold Medal” Stieff Piano. The singing tone, the delightful responsive action, the lasting quality.

SHOES
Now is the time to BUY YOUR SHOES. We have the newest lasts and leathers in the famous King Quality Shoes. Great values at $4.00. Finer shoes $4.50 to $6.00. M. H. Goodrum & Co.

44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
SCOFIELD'S
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries, and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S

DR. HALL VISITS DAVIDSON.
November 6, Dr. Winfield Scott Hall, one of the foremost sociologists of America, lectured to the Davidson students under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. Dr. Hall was formerly professor of hygiene and sociology in Northwestern University, but now he is traveling over the entire United States for the Y.M.C.A., delivering lectures to students on purity and high ideals of manhood. Dr. Hall delivered two lectures, one at 2:15 and the other at 7:15 p.m. Both were attended by practically the entire student body as well as some of the men from the town. The object of his afternoon talk was to explain how each one of us, who are from the Aryan race, lives again in his life the history of that greatest of all races. First in our race, said he, there came the primeval man, from 10,000 to 6,000 years ago. This era corresponds to infancy, of which we know practically nothing psychologically. The next step was that of savagery, which extended to 3,500 years ago. The people of this age were very emotional, fetish worshipers, raft builders, cave dwellers. This period corresponds to childhood, from three to ten years, in which toys and dolls are fetishes, and when nothing so delights the boyish heart as to build rafts and dig caves. Then came an upward step to barbarianism, extending to 1,500 years ago. It was in this stage of the race that woman gave a home to man and became his equal. The man was cruel and delighted in the hunt. This age corresponds to boyhood, from ten to fifteen, when the boy is cruel, dirty, and in truth a little barbarian.

Do You Play Tennis???
If you do, always use HAND-MADE TENNIS BALLS. They are found by test to be the best on the market.

We are sales agents for Huyler’s Candies.

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON
W. G. SOMERVILLE, Manager

If You Want Pennants, Sofa Pillow Tops and Posters It Will Pay You To See W. C. ROURK, 57 N. Chambers, Before You Buy.

REMEMBER
On Monday morning to put your laundry out, your name on it and mark it for us.
Charlotte Steam Laundry
W. Y. SAYAD, Agt.
No. 7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing

Stop That Cough With a Bottle of our White Pine Cough Syrup. Twenty-five cents.
The Davidson Drug Company

Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc., Promptly and correctly executed.
A. R. ROWLAND, Local RepresentativeFollowing period was that of chivalry, when woman gave society to the race, and became the lady of the castle. And man had a code of honor to his God, his king, his lady, and himself. This is the age of young manhood, sixteen to twenty-five, a time of daring, chivalry, and honor. The era of chivalry merges into the age of modernism, the time of today, which is brighter and fairer than any other the world has ever seen. This is the age of maturity and manhood, when life is at its greatest and when man—

Prescriptions our Specialty. If it is anything in the Drug Line, we have it.
JETTON DRUG CO.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Now’s The Time? STORE IS THE PLACE

Generations of noble, indomitable blood. And what of the coming age? Will it be a time of advance or a period of decadence? Dr. Hall claims that tomorrow will be yet greater and brighter than today, and that, as always, the ideals of today will become the great realities of the tomorrow of the Aryan race.

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. MINTER ON “GAMBLING.”

Continuing the November series of talks on College Ideals and Problems, Dr. Minter will speak to the Christian Association next Thursday night on the subject of “Gambling.” Dr. Minter is a very effective and attractive speaker, and every man in college should avail himself of the opportunity to hear him. Last Thursday night Dr. McGeachy, of Charlotte, addressed the Association on the third of the series, “Honesty.” In his delightful, earnest way, he brought a wonderfully practical message and left a deep impression.

The Sunday Bible classes continue with splendid attendance, the average so far being between eighty and ninety percent. P. D. Patrick's class leads with an attendance of one hundred percent to date. Several follow close behind.

C. B. MOONEY
General Contractor
Painting, Tin Work, Brick Work
Repair Work of all Kinds.
Good and Quick Service

Rubber Stamps for all purposes—
Oldest established house on the Hill
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
Printed Matter of All Kinds

FALL GOLF TOURNAMENT STARTS IN DECEMBER.

The first regular golf tournament of the Golf Club will start during the first week of December. Much enthusiasm has been shown and the event promises to be a very interesting one. The entrants are to play ten rounds each to determine their handicap, so as to put every man on an equal basis. There will be four qualifying rounds played soon to decide those that will play in the first and second flights. The first eight players making the best score will play in the first flight and the remainder in the second flight. The following men have handed in their names up to date and are playing their qualifying rounds as soon as possible: Professors Arbuckle, Currie, M. and J. W. McConnell, and the following students: Clark and Hugh Minter, I. A. Crawford, C. B. McKinney, G. F. Newton, M. S. Kennedy, W. C. Cummings, S. T. Henderson, Woodrow Clark, and J. H. Carson.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Mahew & Lowry
Cleaning and Pressing
The Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.