The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 30, 1914. NO. 4

Dr. Weatherford Speaks to Student Body.
Well Known Student Secretary Visits Davidson.

Davidson was indeed fortunate in being able to secure Dr. Weatherford last Wednesday to address the student body and assist the Y. M. C. A. in its campaign for Voluntary Bible Study. This great Southern leader in Y. M. C. A. and other religious and social work was already well known by a large number of men both through personal acquaintance at the Summer Conferences and indirectly through his books on the Negro problem which have been studied here. He is a man of wonderful leadership and executive ability, which with his intense enthusiasm makes him a power in his work with college men.

On last Wednesday, at the 10:10 period, the bell was rung continuously for five minutes, and the men, excused from recitations for that hour, began to crowd into Shearer Hall to hear Dr. Weatherford speak. From the very start he held the earnest attention of every student, as he showed strikingly and powerfully how one man’s influence affects all others with whom he comes in contact. His address was based on the passage, “And a man shall be as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.” He pictured first what the shadow of a great rock meant to a tired traveler on the hot Syrian deserts. The application to everyday life was that a man could make the influence of his character a great work, into whose shadow those whose characters were weaker could retreat. Dr. Weatherford said that principles were only powerful when lived in the lives of men. He stressed the fact that a few men who have caught the vision of God would show to the world that God is living.

A number of apt and vivid illustrations were scattered through the address. One had its setting in a Western college. The football team of this college was anxious to win its closing game. The coach went to a game of the opposing team and watched every play. When he returned to his team he said that he could checkmate all their opponent's plays, but for a single man who was a tower of strength. Then he began forming a plan by which they could all knock out that single man. All the men were reluctantly following the coach in his diabolical scheme, none being strong enough to stand forth in opposition. But finally one stalwart end in the corner arose and said in a firm voice, “Coach, if that’s the tactics, you'll have to count me out of the game.” Then, one by one, the men who had been too weak to stand alone, said, “You'll have to count me out, too, Coach.” That one man had become as the shadow of a mighty rock. Dr. Weatherford emphasized in closing the psychological truth that “character is caught, not taught.” He quoted Henry Drummond: “I become a part of every man I meet, and every man becomes a part of me.” He told the vivid story of Horace Tracy Pitkin, the Yale student who gave up his life in the Boxer uprising, ending with these words: “By living for others, we bring others closer to God, and this is the greatest opportunity of our college life.”

Wednesday night the hall was well filled, and Dr. Weatherford spoke on “The Bible as a Book of Experience of Persons.” Students, he said, should not go to the Bible for literature, his- (Continued on page 4)

Town News
Social and Personal.

The Book Lovers’ Club had a very pleasant meeting with Mrs. Arbuckle, Thursday afternoon. The next meeting will be with Mrs. A. Currie, on October 10.

Dr. Scott, from Statesville, was here Monday in consultation with Dr. Shearer concerning college matters.

Mrs. Ed. McConnell and children, from Gastonia, are visitors of Mrs. J. W. McConnell for a short while.

Mrs. M. S. Dupuy was here Thursday for a brief visit.

Mrs. Arbuckle spent the day in Charlotte last Friday.

Invitations have been received to the marriage of Miss Lilian Reid to Mr. Robert Lee Rutzler, the marriage to take place October 15 at the Second Presbyterian church.

The Girls’ Basket Ball Team has reorganized with an enthusiastic meeting led by Miss I. L. Foreman.

Miss Francis Worth has left for college at Winston-Salem.

Miss Mary Richards left Wednesday for the College for Women, Columbia, S. C. She was accompanied by her mother, Mrs. Richards, who will visit her friends in Sumter and Manning.

Mr. J. R. Ross and family, and Mr. and Mrs. Develle, of Charlotte, spent Sunday with Mrs. Ross’s sister.

Miss Victoria Withers and Master James Rutledge Withers were baptized Sunday by Dr. Richards.

Mr. and Mrs. Fowle and Miss Fowle, who have been visiting their sons for the past week, left Monday for their home in Washington, N.C.

Miss C. O. Alexander is visiting at the home of Mrs. Paisley.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Robeson, of Bay St. Louis, Mo., have been visiting at the home of their relatives, Mr. and Mrs. A. Currie, last week. They left with Mrs. Frank Robeson for her home in Wilmington, N.C.

President Martin left for Hartsville, S. C., where he made several addresses. He expects to speak at other points in the State before his return.

Mr. A. R. Jackson, of University of Arkansas, was a visitor here Monday.

Dr. T. P. Viera, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Monday.

Mr. F. W. Wakefield, of Charlotte, spent Sunday here.

RECEPTION TO GOLF CLUB.

Mrs. Arbuckle will entertain the Golf Club next Friday evening at 8 o'clock. This is the first of a series of social evenings that are being planned by the club, and the student members of the club willbe particularly welcome.

Win Tennis Doubles Here Saturday. “Tigers” Have Best Team In Six Years. Interesting and Exciting Matches Played In Tournament.

Saturday's contest will be one of the greatest and hardest fought games that has ever been played in this section of the State. It will be a “fight-to-the-finish,” and the victors of that day have much to do. The rivalry between these two institutions, though friendly, has for years been very keen. Interest is high for many reasons; first, this is the first real game of the season; then it is the real big game to be played “on the Hill.” Also, Davidson is determined to win to get revenge for the game that was lost to Clemson on their grounds. Clemson has never before played here at Davidson, and this is the first opportunity that many in this section have ever had to see the “ferocious” Tigers play. Clemson has for years sustained and upheld the “rep” of having one of the best teams in the South. They are coming to Davidson Saturday, so the newspaper reports say, with determination and confidence of victory. The coaching staff at Clemson is one of the best in the South today. Bob Williams as head coach has a reputation throughout the South for his ability. He has several able assistants. Clemson is always careful in sending out reports of their team's condition, and unless they are good they do not make any; however, the “dope” in the dailies, sent from there, say they have the best team that Clemson has had in over six years. This statement has been issued several times in the last week, and has authority behind it. The Tigers have had some unusually strong teams in the past four or five years, and such a statement means that the “Red and Black” machine has a big and mighty proposition to go up against Saturday. But Coach Fetzer’s squad is getting in shape every day. Watch them.

The annual tennis tournament held here last week was exceptionally fine. All through it was characterized by strong rivalry and good feeling. The playing was splendid. Every combatant was keyed up to do his best, and the many spectators witnessed some very pretty playing. The singles have not yet been finished, but will be completed soon. In the doubles, each couple set his hand against the hand of ten other couples, and many hard-fought matches resulted. As everyone expected, Norman Johnson and It is no small treat to see “Long Boy” and “Dave” play doubles. Johnson plays a fast driving game with a lot of “pep.” He uses his extraordinary height to a great advantage, smashing in his serves, and playing a brilliant net game. Dave, on the other hand, is not as fast, but he is very sure, and low isn't. He likewise uses his stature, comparatively diminutive, to advantage. The team work is clock-like, a combination of strength and strategy, and is marked with frequent star plays. To Davidson men they seem invincible, and all expect great things of them in oncoming meets.

The hardest fought singles match so far was probably that between M.A. Ropes and Tom Finley. Again and again the games were run into almost endless deuce, fine shots and pretty lobs being mixed in with a strong, steady game on both sides. The third set hung to a stop late one evening at 5-5. It was begun over the next afternoon, and Finley won.

The matches played since last week’s issue of The Davidsonian were as follows:

Saturday. In the Doubles:
TIGERS’ SQUAD.
Johnson and Crawford defeated Ot and Mitchell. Last year’s Varsity Squad seventeen have now returned; among these are: Schilletter (Capt.), Webb, Suggs, Brandon, Stribling, James, Barnette, Carhart, H. Minter, Major, McMillian, Hamilton, Marill, and Gee. Schilletter, all Southern tackle, will be one of the most powerful football men ever seen in this section. He has made his “black C” for the past three years; built like a giant, he tips the scales at 198 pounds. Panney Webb, at full-back, who was in every play against Davidson last Fall, is playing his fourth consecutive year. He is a “ten-second” man, weighs 175 pounds, is a hard and sure tackler, and a great punter. He is very much the type of Dan Heyward. Webb also has made his block letter the past three years. Stribling weighs 165, has played a consistent and brilliant end for two seasons; James, weight 170, plays half-back, and is very fast, having played for three years; Major is also a half-back, and is a star; Gee has played for three years, and is a strong player. Besides the above, and many second-squad men back, Clemson also has many promising new men who are working hard to make the team, so the eighteen (Continued on page 4)

Johnson and Crawford defeated Kinney and Roddey, 6-2, 6-4.
Finley and Finley defeated Wrath and Kennedy, 6-2, 6-1.
Finley and Finley defeated Steverman and Mitchell, 6-4, 6-3.
Steverman and Mitchell defeated Price and Bogus, 6-4, 6-4.
Johnson and Crawford defeated McKee and Roddey, 6-2, 6-4.
Finley and Finley defeated Wrath and Kennedy, 6-2, 6-1.

In the Singles:
H. Minter defeated Thomas, 6-7, 6-2.
R. Minter defeated Hawkins, 6-4, 6-4.
Reese defeated White, 6-0, 6-4.
Finley defeated Bogus, 6-2, 1-6, 6-2.
Johnson defeated H. Minter, 6-2, 6-4.
Crawford defeated R. Minter, 6-2, 6-3.
Reese defeated F. Price, 6-4, 8-6.

The winner of the match, H. Finley vs. Johnson, will play the winner of the match, Crawford vs. Reese, in the finals on Wednesday.

DAVIDSON WINS AT ERSKINE.
The Davidson tennis team has begun its triumphal march. Monday night the following telegram was received from Erskine College: "Davidson wins doubles, three straight sets.” Davidson also won both singles.

See Lowenberg’s splendid line of Shoes, Oct. 6, 7, 8.