— 4 VOL. 1 - The DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 13, 1914. NO. 7

Alumni Reunions Commencement Feature. Full and Interesting Program Anticipated for Next Week.

Among the prominent alumni who are to be present at Commencement are Dr. W. F. Faison ('86), of Jersey City,
N. J.; Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., Professor at Union Theological Seminary; Rev. T. C. Whaling, D.D., President of Columbia
Theological Seminary; Hon. B. R. Lacy, of Raleigh, N. C., who is State Treasurer of North Carolina; Hon. Franklin McNeill,
Corporation Commissioner of North Carolina for a number of years; Hon. F. Stevenson, of Cheraw, S. C., and Mr. H.
A. Banks, who will accompany Secretary Daniels in the office of secretary. Rev. Palmer DuBose ('02), now on a furlough
from his mission work in China, will also be present at Commencement with his family. Mr. H. F. Query, President
of the Class of 1909, in a letter to Dr. Martin, has promised that his class will be well represented,
at least twenty of his classmates having already definitely informed him that they are coming. Other classes will also be
represented, but nothing yet is known definitely of the number.

Commencement will begin on Saturday, May 16, with the reunion of the Literary Societies. The Alumni orator for the Philanthropic
Society on this occasion will be Rev. William E. Hill, who graduated from Davidson about ten years ago, and is
now pastor of the West End Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga. He is well known to the students and faculty, having
been a prominent speaker at the seventy-fifth anniversary of the College. Dr. Reed Smith, Professor of English at the University
of South Carolina, will deliver the Alumni oration in the Eumenean Society. Dr. Smith, a prominent member of the Class
of 1901, won the essayist’s Medal in the Eumenean Society in his Senior year. After graduation at Davidson, Dr. Smith
finished his course by taking a doctorate at Harvard.

The Baccalaureate Sermon will be preached by Rev. Theron H. Rice, Professor of English at Union Theological Seminary and a
prominent lecturer at the summer conferences in Montreat. With a man of such wide experience and education to deliver the
sermon, this is expected to be one of the features of the Commencement.

On Monday the event of the day will be the Literary Address delivered by Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the
Navy. Mr. Daniels will be accompanied by his wife and his secretary, Mr. F. W. Wakefield, of Charlotte.

Town News of the Week. Personal.

President Martin left Wednesday for Mount Ulla, where he made an address at the commencement exercises of the school. He
also had a similar appointment at Lexington, Friday. Dr. J. Moore McConnell delivered an address at the closing exercises of
the Sanford High School last Tuesday.

The home of Mrs. Davidson has recently been re-painted.

Mr. John McRae, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Thursday.

Mr. F. W. Wakefield, of Charlotte, was a visitor here Sunday.

Mr. Gus Leazer, of Mooresville, spent a short while here Monday.

The condition of Mrs. W. C. C. Foster, who has been confined for the past two weeks with a severe
attack of Lagrippe, has greatly improved.

Miss Mary Young is visiting friends at Gastonia.

There was an important meeting of the Davidson School Board held last Monday night, to make plans for the coming
session.

Misses Hood and Payne, together with a few others, gave a picnic last week which was greatly enjoyed by all.

Miss Julia Smith, of Asheville, N. C., was a visitor for five days last week at the home of Mr.
L. R. Smith. While here she spoke before the Ladies’ Missionary Society, telling them of her work in the mountains
of Western North Carolina. It was an interesting talk, and thoroughly enjoyed and appreciated.

Mr. Allen Samuel Williams gave two lectures before a small but appreciative audience in Shearer Hall, Saturday and Monday nights.
His subject was “The Truth About Snakes” and “Adventures in the Tropics.” Mr. Williams’ lectures were illustrated by stereopticon slides
and live specimens.

Future Development of Davidson. Social and Plans and Sites for New Buildings. Landscape Gardener Coming.

Dr. Martin has had a blueprint map made of the College grounds showing the location of the buildings, trees, etc.,
and the different elevations and depressions. Mr. Nolan, a landscape gardener from New York, is coming down in a short
while to examine the College grounds, and with the aid of this map, to make certain suggestions about the location
of buildings, etc. Dr. Martin, in this connection, said that the new gymnasium would very probably be between Chambers and
the Athletic field, and tennis courts would very probably be placed around it. If any new dormitories are needed, they
will be placed to the east of Georgia dormitory, in the same row with Rumple, Watts, and Georgia. In case
of the College expanding to any great extent, Dr. Martin said that buildings would be placed on the road running
between Chambers dormitory and the athletic field. Dr. Martin is strongly in favor of a second athletic field, a kind
of young men’s playground, on which campus football and baseball may be played by those who are not expert enough
to go out for the Varsity, but who really need the exercise more than those proficient in the game.

Dr. Martin has sent as an exhibit to the General Assembly some copies of The Davidsonian, a map showing the
location of the twenty-four Davidson men in Foreign Mission fields, and also a blueprint map of the College grounds.

Base Ball Season Ends.

H. M. MARVIN AWARDED GRYPHON MEDAL.

The medal awarded each year by the Order of the Gryphon to that member of the Senior class who has
done most for the College, goes this year to H. M. Marvin. This honor does not depend upon any one
phase of College activity, but...is based upon excellence in studies, athletics, society work, debating, and various things wherein a man
may be of service to his Alma Mater. When all this is taken into consideration, the award this year seems
most fitting, for Marvin has represented the College in two Inter-Collegiate debates, besides being alternate on several others; he made
the honor roll for four years; he has served most efficiently on the Student Council; has been an active worker
in the Eu Society, and has filled positions on the executive committee of the Athletic Association, his class and student
in Victory.

“Big” Mills of U. of S.C. is Driven From the Box.

On Thursday afternoon was witnessed the final game of the season, when the “Red and Black Machine” walloped the strong
team from the U. of S. C., triumphing over them 9 to 4. Thus was the season closed in a
glorious victory. The diamond was in the best condition of the year for a game, but at five minutes of
four, after both teams had taken their practice, dark clouds which had been gradually approaching began to pour down rain.
It looked like the game would have to be called off, but by 5 o'clock the sun was again out,
and the game started one hour late. The Gamecocks have always been friendly but very keen rivals of Davidson, and
this adds much to the satisfaction over the result of the final game. For the last few years it has
been the proud boast of “Big” Mills that Davidson never had defeated Carolina when he was pitching, and moreover, that
they never could. All before the game he continued to tell everyone of his past record and how he was
going to repeat it again that afternoon. But—in 1 1-3 innings he met his Waterloo, when the Davidson sluggers, in
a terrific batting streak, drove the mighty Mills from off the mound, getting 5 runs off of 5 clean hits—two
triples, two doubles and a single. ‘Babe’ Adams was sent in to his rescue, and pitched a fine game considering
the fact that he had pitched a 10-inning game the day before against Guilford.

The scoring started off in the first frame. Christenbury was safe on an error, and was sacrificed to third by
Kluttz. Crayton then hit one to the left field fence for two bags. Brown scored him with a triple, and
“Dutch” drove Brown in with a double. In the second Somerville led off with a single, was sacrificed by Osteen
and scored by Christy on a three-bagger. Kluttz scored Christy on a sacrifice fly. Stough scored one more in the
third. Again in the seventh the game was cinched. Crayton got on first on an error; Stough singled, and Elliott
got a three-bagger, scoring both and scoring himself when a wild throw was made. Due to the fact that the
field was very muddy, errors were very frequent. Carolina scored four runs, and the majority of these were made after
the ball had been errored. They only registered 3 small singles off of Bill’s superb twirling, and were at his
mercy throughout the game.

Mr. B. R. Lacy, an old Davidson man, Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence on the 20th of this month by entering
a float in the parade, which will be the spectacular feature of the day. Nothing is known of any of
the points Mr. Daniels will bring out in his speech, but judging by the man, we are certain the address
will be good. E. C. Pharr, who has charge of the preparations, has secured a large covered van and four-horse
team. This will be completely covered with red and black bunting, garlands and pennants. Several members of the faculty, representatives
of the different classes, and members of the Mecklenburg Club, will ride in the float. The parade will form at
Morehead street and will proceed up North Tryon street to the Square, thence over the principal streets of Charlotte. There
will be room for about twenty-five persons in the float, and anyone wishing to ride in it should see E.
C. Pharr or J. E. Faw, at once.

HAY WINS FICTION MEDAL.
(Continued on page 4)

On Monday night the Junior Oratorical Contest between the societies takes place. The representatives from the Philanthropic Society are J.
E. Carter, N. S. Alexander and J. W. S. Gilchrist. The representatives from the Eumenean Society are F. W. Price,
N. J. Johnson and E. Rowland.

On Tuesday morning the Junior men participate in this contest, three men elected from the Senior speakers and three men
having the highest standing in their classes. The representatives selected from the Senior speakers are H. Hay, C. Crane, and
the three men having the highest standing will be W. S. Gilchrist, L. W. Kluttz, F. W. Price, Earle Rowland,
L. A. Mullen, I. G. Patton Jr., J. L. Payne; Art Department, J. F. Good.

It costs some people a lot to live because their neighbors are afflicted with the borrowing habit.

Subscribe Now for Next Year’s Davidsonian---$1.00

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 1914.
Sept. 26—Horner at Davidson.
Oct. 3—Clemson at Davidson.
Oct. 10—Newberry at Davidson.
Oct. 17—Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 24—U. of Fla., at Jacksonville.
Oct. 31—U. of N. C., at Winston-Salem.
Nov. 7—Furman at Davidson.
Nov. 14—U. of S. C. at Columbia.
Nov. 26—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
