ATHLETIC PROSPECTS UNUSUALLY BRIGHT.
(Concluded from page 1)

The old-time Davidson ‘Pep’ is reviving and bursting forth again. Every man on the Hill seems to have it. Everyone seems to be a booster. Let it continue to be revived until it shall equal and even surpass that old fighting spirit of the days of 1903-1907.

“The prospects for football this fall are bright. The baseball prospects look promising. Basketball, track, and tennis prospects look good. Let every student do his part by buying at once an Athletic Season Ticket, at only $5.00. Let every Davidson man be optimistic, revive the ‘Pep,’ and work to make this the greatest year in Athletics that Davidson has ever had.

ALUMNI ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION FORMED.

The dream and hope of many a loyal Davidsonian has at last been realized because the college now has a real active, earnest, enthusiastic Alumni Athletic Association. It has gone to work with determination and zeal to once more place Davidson high in athletic circles of the South, where it once was, and where it belongs, and where it will be again shortly. The chief aim of the Association since its formation has been to secure competent coaches and assistants. The committee in charge has surpassed even its own aspirations in what has been thus far accomplished.

The new association budded into existence during Commencement, at the general Alumni meeting. After various plans were suggested, it was decided to elect a president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, and two others, these five to compose a committee which should act for the Alumni in all matters pertaining to athletics during the coming year. This committee is composed of the following loyal, enthusiastic alumni: F. L. Blythe, of Concord; Dr. Luke Beall, of Greensboro; H. W. McKay, of Charlotte; Charlie Taylor, of Winston-Salem; C. B. Bailey, of Greenwood, S.C. Since commencement, they have held at least a half dozen meetings and finally succeeded in securing R. A. Fetzer as Athletic Director and head football coach, Nelson Harris as assistant, and have gotten many alumni football stars to come back to assist at intervals. They have mailed out several thousand letters to alumni and are now raising money to keep up their good work.

FRESH-SOPH BASEBALL GAME.

In a game abounding in freak plays, long hits, and costly errors, the annual Fresh-Soph baseball game was pulled off Monday morning on the Sprunt Field at 10 o'clock, resulting in a victory of 12 to 2 for the Sophs. This exhibition proved to be the first athletic contest of the year, and several new pieces of promising material showed up to stop kinks in last season's Varsity, with a little coaching. Walker, Stough, and Christenbury starred for the Sophs; Black and Pharr for the Fresh.

LITERARY SOCIETIES TO BEGIN WORK SATURDAY.

The Eumenean and Philanthropic Societies will begin the year’s work with the initiation of new men Saturday night. Although many of the best men in both societies have left college, there are fine possibilities in the present members and the new men to be initiated. It is a matter of common remark that the work of the societies has been improving during the past two years, but it must be confessed that it is far short of what could well be expected of college literary societies. By beginning the year with a full realization of its possibilities, and the proper earnestness and ‘pep,’ much will be accomplished towards bringing the work up to the highest standard.

Prof. F. L. Blythe attended his twelfth consecutive Fresh reception last Monday night.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

RALLY MEETING AND FRESH RECEPTION BIG SUCCESS.
(Concluded from page 1)

Professors, but to the old men as well. The nicknames of the professors were cleverly brought out in various ways. This concluded the program as laid down, but no such meeting as this would have been complete without a few words from Coach Fetzer. He spoke of the advantage of athletic training and of the development which football gives a man, and said that while it took a man to play the game, at the same time it took a gentleman. He strongly urged everyone who possibly could to come out, especially the freshmen, who he said must surely win out in the end if they would only keep going out and stick to it. Then he...spoke of the responsibility resting upon the students to show themselves worthy of the confidence that the alumni have placed in them by giving their money and their interest. The continued applause which Mr. Fetzer received was an excellent tribute to the fact that he holds a warm place in the heart of every man on the campus.

RECEPTION ON CAMPUS.

From Shearer Hall the meeting adjourned to that part of the campus adjoining the Library building, where refreshments were served. Among those assisting in receiving were: Professor and Mrs. Currie, and Mrs. Arbuckle, Dr. and Mrs. Grey, Mrs. Worth, Miss Shaw, and Drs. Richards, J. M. Douglas, J. L. Douglas, J. W. McConnell, Harding, and Wunder. Many out-of-town guests were present, including Mrs. Nisbet, Mrs. W. C. Wilkinson, and Misses Siler, Scott, Miriam Parker, Annie D. Chambers, Mary Carson, Margaret Cowles, Lucy Boyce, and Bessie Lee Flowe, from Charlotte; Misses Kate and Edith Robinson, from Lowell; Miss Elinor Read, from Gastonia; Misses Elizabeth Davis, Alice McKenzie, and Elizabeth Howard, and Messrs. Davis and Hambly, from Salisbury; Miss Margaret Harper, from Lenoir; and Messrs. McKay, Carson, Gibbon, McDuffie, Wearn, Jamison, Clark, Golden, White, and Wilkinson. The evening could hardly have been better for the occasion, and it was very much enjoyed by all.

NEW CONSTITUTION ADOPTED

At a full meeting of the student body on Monday morning, a thoroughly revised and remodeled Constitution of Student Body Government was carefully considered and adopted. Many cases had shown the inefficiency and ambiguity of the old Constitution, and a new one was urged last spring. Alfred Scarborough, president of the Student Body, was fortunately able to secure the able assistance in framing it of a distinguished Davidson alumnus, Associate Justice Frasier, of the Supreme Court of South Carolina, and the result has been a clear, concise, well-worded Constitution upon which to base the student government. Many new ideas and suggestions have been incorporated, viz., provision for the mode of election of Students’ Councilmen, an oath to be taken by the Students’ Councilmen before taking office, a clear statement of the limit of jurisdiction of the Council, a provision allowing accused to meet their witnesses face to face and cross-examine them, a section giving the Council freedom as to the degree of penalty, and a clear, definite mode of procedure upon appeal of the Council’s decision to the student body. Lastly comes the Moral Code, summed up in four sentences, by which the council is to act. Many of the old details as to the working of the Student Government are retained, but the present Constitution is essentially a new one, and a great improvement. It has been adopted by the student body, and deserves now such earnest support as will prove its efficiency and effectiveness. The revised Constitution will appear in the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, which will appear next week.

While in Charlotte September 9, 1914

The weather is hot but you will keep cool if you buy

Ice Cold Drinks
from
TATE’S DRUG SHOP

Waterman's and Parker's Fountain Pens
The best work by Experienced Barbers
Eastman Kodaks and Films
Full Line of STATIONERY

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE
“AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD”

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

Satisfaction Combined makes clear the reason why SPALDING’S are outfitters to champions, whose implements must be invariably right. The Spalding Trade-Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment.

Write for free illustrated catalogue.

R. J. SHELTON: Livery, Feed, and Sale Stables
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
Phone No. 74-L
“Watch the Light”
DAVIDSON, N.C.

EAT AT SLOAN’S QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P. M.