The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., SEPTEMBER 16, 1914. NO. 2

Davidsonians Return Bright Prospects for the Town News of the Foot Ball Squad Getting From Abroad. Exciting Times Experienced on Account of the War.

Five Davidson men, Messrs. Anderson, McKinnon, Shirley, Roddey, and Gignilliat, led by Dr. Lingle, sailed from New York on board the ship New York, on July 18, bound for a vacation trip abroad. After a bon voyage, the party landed at Southampton, England, and from thence journeyed to old Winchester, the old-time capital of England. At this interesting old place was seen one of the oldest and largest Cathedrals in the world built in the time of the Romans. Perhaps the most interesting thing about this old Cathedral is the underground crypt there since the time of the Druids. Here bubbles up a bold spring, the water of which is used for the purpose of baptism. In the crypt are the tombs of earliest English kings, before the time of Christianity. In this old Cathedral, Phillip of France and Bloody Mary were married. As a striking contrast to the solemnity of this ancient pile, a gay and spirited modern game of cricket was in progress between Eton and Oxford. The shouts of the contestants echoing and reverberating through the dark corridors of the old Cathedral.

From Winchester, the party hastened to London, visiting Westminster Abbey, St. Paul’s, The Bank of England, the Tower, etc. Much amusement was afforded at Madam Trousseau’s wax collection when Shirley tried to buy his ticket from a wax figure in appearance exactly like the real ticket seller—so he declares. Gignilliat was especially delighted by a rousing Suffragette demonstration in Trafalgar Square, his comrades with great difficulty restraining him from making a speech, so enthused was he over the Pankhurst arguments.

After securing their bicycles, the party spent ten enjoyable days touring England, making excursions to many points of historical interest. At this time Malcolm Shirley must needs journey over to “Old Erin” to visit his Irish “kith and kin.” Here he found great excitement and stirring patriotic demonstrations occasioned by the Home Rule question. After ten days the party reunited, sailed across the Channel, landing at Dieppe, France. Cycling through Old Normandy, often called “the most beautiful country in the world,” the party visited many famous old castles and ruins. From thence they journeyed to the beautiful Fontainebleau; interesting to all students of history as the place where Napoleon abdicated. Many things of interest were in the walls of this old castle, such as Napoleon's bedroom, containing the clothes worn by the great Emperor, a lock of his hair, and the priceless tapestry of those times. Here were seen also Marie Antoinette’s room, and the rooms of the Popes.

Cycling on to Paris, the party found that gayest of cities in holiday attire, celebrating the French National holiday, corresponding to our Thanksgiving. Nothing can surpass the gayety of Paris on festive occasions. At every corner one is stopped by merry-go-rounds, Ferris wheels, and gambling booths. Someone has said that “Paris begins to live when night falls.” Then people who have slept all day, rub their eyes, dress in the height of fashion, and step out upon the Promenade, to the lively tunes furnished by the military bands, playing all night long.

(Continued on page 4)

Annual Editor and Manager Needs Support of Every Student.

Except for the present financial depression everywhere prevalent, Quips and Cranks for 1915 has everything in its favor to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of Davidson annuals in proper style. The staff has on it some of the most original men in college, who are generally recognized for their ability in writing. There are also many men in college, both old men and freshmen, from whom the editor expects much help and who have expressed their willingness to assist in every way possible. The art staff has come back strong this year. Russell Minter, Quips and Cranks’ mainstay for several years, is taking his M.A. and is better able than ever before to make the art department the best feature of the book. J.P. Johnson and Good are back, too. Both have done excellent work in previous years.

The hearty support and co-operation of the student body, both in subscribing and contributing articles, poems or drawings is all that is necessary to ensure the complete success of Quips and Cranks this year. Cash is coming hard with everybody, advertisers included, and every cent will count more this year than ever before. For this reason, the manager is counting on the loyal support of every man, and when he or his representative comes around for their subscription let him have it with a free hand. Another way of helping is by helping to get advertisements. The manager, J.K. Enw., has a proposition to offer anyone who will help him in getting them. There is room for every man to have his share in keeping Quips and Cranks the best annual in the State.

SOPHOMORE CLASS ELECTIONS.

Wednesday evening, the 9th, the Sophomore class met in Shearer Hall for the election of officers. The officers elected are all men of ability and prominence, and the class is to be congratulated upon their choice. The officers are as follows: President, A.B. Reese; Vice President, S.R. Keesler; Secretary-Treasurer, K.P. Nisbet; Cheer Leader, J.C. Raisley. C.B. Ranks was nominated for Chaplain, and I.W. Lane for Mascot. No further nominations were made for these offices, and the only nominees were considered elected.

JUNIORS ELECT OFFICERS.

At a meeting held Friday night, the class of 1916 held its annual election of officers, and the following men were chosen: President, J.P. Williams; Vice-President, L.M. McBryde; Secretary-Treasurer, Roy Perry; Historian, D. Shaw.

ASSISTANT FOOTBALL MANAGERS ARE ELECTED.

At a meeting of the Athletic Association after chapel last Friday morning, P.D. Sparrow and L.A. Mullen were elected assistant football managers to fill the vacancies occasioned by G. Hicks’ retirement from school and by W.G. Morrison's resignation on account of his connection with the annual staff. R.G. Finley, who was recommended together with Sparrow and Mullen by the Executive Committee of the Athletic Association, ran a close race for the position.MAN | Week. Interesting Items. Personal.

The new store that is to be occupied by the White Drug Co. is nearing completion and will be opened within the next few days.

Dr. J. M. McConnell left Wednesday for Washington on a brief business trip.

President Martin left Friday for Montreat, where he will be with his family for a few days.

Mr. Richard Johnson, of Norfolk, Va., is here for some time visiting his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Johnson.

Mrs. Wilton Hudson, of Greenville, S.C., who has been visiting Mrs. J. M. Douglas for the past few days, left Friday.

Mr. W. E. Crozier, of Baltimore, was a visitor here Thursday.

Mr. Carl Estill, of Attleboro, Mass., was a visitor on the campus Friday.

Mr. W. H. Rogers, class of '13, was a visitor here for a few days.

Miss Cora Sloan is visiting her aunt, Mrs. Thos. Lingle, for a short while before going to college this year at the State Normal.

Mr. Will Jetton moved into his new drug store during the past week and expects to have his stock complete within the next few days.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION DAVIDSON. ALUMNI MEETING

On last Saturday night, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Athletic Association met in Coach Fetzer’s office and discussed various questions in regard to athletics at Davidson. The members present were: C. E. Taylor, of Winston-Salem; F. O. L. Blythe, of Concord; Dr. H. W. McKay, of Charlotte; C. B. Bailey, of Davidson, together with Coach Fetzer and Manager Kluttz. Many topics of athletics were discussed for several hours, particularly that of the raising of funds which the Alumni Association needs. Several thousand cards have been sent out, and it was decided to immediately secure some loyal, enthusiastic alumni to travel throughout the South to raise funds for the Association. This man is to travel from city to city, town to town, and make a personal appeal to all alumni. The question of a baseball coach was taken up, but no one was definitely decided upon. This matter will be taken up and decided upon at the next meeting which will be held very soon.

GAME SATURDAY, SEPT. 26.

Manager Kluttz has been trying to land a game for the Saturday before Clemson and is sure that there will be one, but cannot state definitely with what team it will be. It will most probably be Bingham, Catawba, Mt. Pleasant, or Horner. The season athletic tickets will be good for this game. This will be the first game, and everyone will have a chance then to see the “Red and Black Machine” work out for the first time.

Coaches Working Hard to Get Team Into Shape.

Each afternoon the squad on the athletic field is settling down harder and harder to work. The training table was started at Booe's last Saturday, the pledge has been signed, regular scrimmaging has started, and the football season is now on in dead earnest. At present, the squad looks pretty good and much above the average, but there should be more than fifty out on the squad with an enrollment of over 325. Sewanee has as a rule a squad of 85, with less than 150 enrollment. If anyone has not anything to wear out to practice, let him see Manager Kluttz, and he will be given something. The team needs every single available man out regularly. No student must think that because there are already several teams out he cannot help some. The coaches are only too glad to see new material on the field. If you are not as large as some others, come out and develop yourself. No one who goes to the field with nerve, courage, pep, and a determination to help out the team will fail to make good sooner or later, if not this season, possibly next. It appears from the way that Coach Fetzer and Harris are mixing up the teams that everyone out will have to work for his position. The player who will receive a certificate at the end of the season for a block “D” or monogram will well deserve to wear the same. From the scrimmaging, it appears that the “old time fighting spirit” or “pep” has been thoroughly aroused again. Just a word now to those who are not out, and who will not be out to try for the squad. If you can't help to win the game by being in it, you can help the team wonderfully by giving it your loyal support. This you can do, first, by being at every single game this year. Remember this is Davidson's “come back” year, and you are needed as never before to stand behind the team. Show your willingness by purchasing a season ticket. Everyone owes it to the team to buy one, to the Athletic Association, and to himself, for the ticket will be equal to $8.00 in games on the Hill, and only cost you $5.00. It is simply a business proposition. Some have bought their tickets but the vast majority of the student body have not as yet. Just one word of warning—remember that though Davidson has an excellent coaching staff, they cannot be expected to work miracles, for they have the work of three seasons of coaching to undo. The team will be one that will be a credit to themselves and the college, no one does doubt. During scrimmage each afternoon, everyone will do a great favor both for the coaches and the team if he will keep absolutely back of the sidelines. The coaches and manager both make this request of every student. Every one of last year’s Varsity men who will be back have arrived. All were indeed glad to see “Slim” Glover back on the scene, and also “Big” McKinnon when he arrived Monday evening. They will both add greatly to the team as they did last season.

The students have voted ten dollars from the damage fee to pay for the placing of stepping stones across the street in front of Mr. Schofield’s store, a much needed and long looked for improvement.

STROUSE & BRO.’S OPENING, No. 1 Ga., Sept. 19 and 21