4 DAVIDSON DEFEATS CITADEL IN GRUELLING CONTEST 16-0

(Concluded from page 1)

Davidson regained the ball and Walker made a fine run around right end for twelve yards and then for six around left end. After another play, Walker gained ten more around left end, but a fumble followed and the ball went over to Citadel. Weeks kicked goal. Keesler returned 10. Walker and Black gained twelve through the line. Davidson failed in forward pass. Half over. Score, 9-0.

Third quarter:
The third quarter was uneventful, except for Week's pretty run for twenty-six yards in returning McKinnon's kick-off. Citadel was unable to make any substantial gains through the Davidson line and changed its tactics to varied play in the final moments but was unable to advance.

Fourth quarter:
In the last few minutes of play, the Citadel defense crumpled and through successive plunges by McKinnon, Walker, and Laird, the Red and Blacks carried the ball over for a touchdown. Citadel showed continued signs of fatigue, while the Davidson team was rounding up the game in fine spirits and carrying the ball almost at will through the Citadel line and around the ends. Citadel resorted to kicking almost exclusively in this period of the game. Final score, 16-0.

The line-up was as follows:
Davidson. Position. Citadel.
White .......... Hudgens center
McKay .......... Scicffe right guard
Vandeventer .... Alexander left guard
Howell .......... Sheppard right tackle
Anderson ....... Jeffords left tackle
Crayton ........ Hill right end
Austin ......... Bolton left end
Keesler ........ Wallace quarter
C. Walker ...... James right half
Laird .......... Weeks left half
McKinnon ...... Switzer fullback

Summary—Substitutions: Davidson, Black for Laird, Gloer for McKay, Bullock for Laird, McKay for Howell, Laird for Black, Summerville for C. Walker, R. Walker for Austin, Ansley for Crayton, C. Walker for Summerville, Fowle for C. Walker. Citadel, Cogswell for Switzer, Stevens for Hill, Lee for Scicffe, Hill for Stevens, Stevens for Hill, Stone for Lee, Lee for Jeffords, Wurcell for Cogswell. Referee, Henderson (Wesleyan). Umpire, Ritch (Carolina - Georgetown). Head linesman, Abernathy (Carolina). Time-keepers, Wander (Davidson), LeGether (Citadel). Linesmen, Finley (Citadel), Walker (Davidson). Touchdowns, White, McKinnon. Field goal, McKinnon. Time of quarters, 12 minutes each. Score by quarters: Davidson 6-3-0-7; Citadel, 0-0-0-0.

SPECIAL TRAIN TO GAME.
A special train left Davidson at 1:50 p.m., carrying two hundred students to the game. They were banked solidly in the bleachers and were led in continued cheering and yelling by “Bill” Copeland and “Summertime” Somerville, as the Red and Black Machine overwhelmed the Cadets. The attendance at the game was fine and showed the hearty support of Charlotte.

HOLIDAY SATURDAY.
A general holiday will be given Saturday and a large crowd will attend the game at Winston. After much effort, an especially low rate has been secured—a round trip fare of $1.55, which, with the 50-cent admission, will put the trip within the reach of every man on the Hill. A record attendance is expected from Winston and surrounding country.

The DAVIDSONIAN. October 28, 1914

ASHEVILLE SCHOOL WINS FROM DAVIDSON SCRUBS.

(Concluded from page 1)

The next play was penalized fifteen yards for holding and so failed to make distance. Asheville punted, Davidson returning to the thirty-yard line, where they were held for downs and the ball went over at the end of the third quarter. Asheville advanced to Davidson's forty-yard line, but fumbled and Davidson recovered. More fierce cross bucks carried the ball far into Asheville’s territory, but Davidson failed to make distance after another penalty. During the remaining time, the ball was see-sawed back and forth over the field, neither side having the advantage. Final score: Asheville 13, Davidson 0.

The line-up of the two teams was as follows:
Davidson Scrubs. Position. Asheville School.
Law (Capt.) ....... Vyner right end
Sayad ............ Whitney right tackle
Edgerton ......... Day right guard
Pharr ............ Knower center
Miller ............ Patten left guard
PaisleyThompson left tackle - Smith .. Loca ee ae . Dugan left end Ives .. Lene ae Wighan quarter . Hill .. tee ee ee a Robinson left half Adams . a McLean (Capt.) right half Critz .. .. . Booth full Substitutions: Hughes for Miller, Law for Smith, Shaw for Law, Williams for Ives, Law for Shaw, Smith for Law. Officials: Referee, Spencer; Umpire, Thompson; Headlinesman, McLanahan; Timekeeper, Larned.

PEP MEETINGS THIS WEEK.
Wednesday night and Friday night. Immediately after supper. In Shearer Hall. Two big Pep Rally meetings will be held this week. They ought to be the best ever held. There will be yells, and snappy speeches, and some new songs to learn. Not a man should fail to come.

BARR-OSTEEN.
On Sunday night, October 18, William Osteen (16) and Miss Marjorie Barr, formerly a Senior at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, were married in Columbia, S.C. Osteen journeyed down to Rock Hill Saturday, and from there Miss Barr accompanied him to Columbia, where they were married. "Bill's" many friends here, to whom this comes as a pleasant surprise, wish him and his bride much happiness and prosperity in their wedded life.

TO PLAY GUILFORD.
The Davidson Tennis team, composed of Crawford and Johnson, will leave Thursday, October 29, for Guilford College. Both doubles and singles will be played, the doubles on Thursday and singles on Saturday. Guilford does not play intercollegiate football, consequently much interest centers in tennis, especially in the Fall. It is rumored that Guilford has a strong team this year, and Crawford and Johnson hope to come off as successfully as they did with Erskine.

BIBLE CLASS ATTENDANCE.
The attendance on the Bible Study Classes continues to rise, and much interest is being shown in the work. An interesting record of attendance will be kept and posted weekly in the Library. All secretaries of the various classes are asked to hand the record of attendance of their respective class to Norman Johnson immediately after the class meets every Sunday morning.

While in Charlotte
TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

"AIN'T THE GRAVY GOOD"

(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

EAT AT SLOAN’S
QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS
PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right.
Open Every Day Till 12: M.
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
"Watch the Light"

Huyler’s Candy

AMERICAN TRUST CO.

PRINTING
Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc.
Promptly and correctly executed
A. R. ROWLAND, Local Representative
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

In addition to the best goods, all new and fresh, we offer you Prompt Service. Send us your orders and we will send the goods. Prescriptions a Specialty.
Jetton Drug Co.
Sales agency for

AN INSPIRATION for play and athletic sport is a glance through a Spalding catalogue. This encyclopedia of athletic paraphernalia will give you ideas you never thought of—it may even be the means of saving a trip to the doctor, for the first step towards good health is plenty of sane exercise, and the equipment listed in our catalogue is of such great variety that something is bound to appeal to you. A postal will bring this catalogue to you free; or, better still, make a personal call.
A. G. SPALDING & BRO
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA

R. J. SHELTON
Livery, Feed and Sale Stables
Phone No. 74-L
DAVIDSON, N. C.