The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Delivers Address on General D. H. Hill Davidson College Day Observed. General Hill’s Son Among Those Present.

On last Thursday morning Davidson College celebrated the seventy-eighth anniversary of its founding, the chief feature of the program being
an address on Gen. D. H. Hill, by Dr. Henry A. Sheppard, of Baltimore. Preceding him, Dr. Hill, son of
General Hill, and president of the A. & M. College at Raleigh, spoke briefly to the students urging them to
make their education count for something more than mere learning alone. Then followed Dr. Sheppard's eloquent address on General Hill,
former professor of mathematics here. Prefacing his speech with a few remarks about the college in the fall of '58,
Dr. Sheppard recalled how he, as a Freshman, highly esteemed in his own eyes, had been criticized by General Hill,
and many traits of character which he developed in later years he attributes to his contact with this professor, who
was a successful educator, a brave and daring soldier, and an eminent Christian gentleman.

When the war broke out General Hill was among the first to come to his country’s aid. He was made
colonel of the First North Carolina Volunteers, and soon rose to the rank of major-general. In the campaigns in Virginia,
Hill was one of Lee's most efficient generals. Dr. Sheppard served in the same campaigns as perhaps the youngest commissioned
officer in the army, and many of the incidents that he related were from his own observation. On one occasion
while Hill and Lee were sitting on a rail fence eating dinner, a cannon ball tore away the tail of
General Hill's coat. Hardly noticing the incident, he took another sip of molasses and continued the meal.

Perhaps the most daring incident in General Hill's career was when at the Battle of South Mountain with but five
thousand men he faced McClellan’s army, which outnumbered his four or five to one. At this time Lee's army was
widely scattered, and for General Hill's division, which was covering the rear guard retreat over Harper's Ferry, to have given
way would have meant utter defeat. General Hill was equal to the occasion, however, and his lines held even against
such overwhelming odds, until aid came and the retreat was successful.

After the war General Hill returned to Charlotte, taking up a literary career. He became the author of a standard
treatise on the “Elements of Algebra,” and two very valuable works, “The Crucifixion of Christ” and “Consideration of the Sermon
on the Mount.” He died in 1889 and is buried in the cemetery here.

K. A. FRAT WINS CUP.

The Belk Fraternity Cup, given by Mr. W. H. Belk, of Charlotte, N. C., and awarded each year to that
fraternity whose class average for the entire undergraduate membership of the chapter is the highest for the year, goes this
time to the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

A. C. Fairley ('15), who had the misfortune to break his right arm while playing basketball recently, is improving rapidly.

Davidson Scores Field Goal and Holds Carolina to Two Touchdowns and Safety

Tar Heels Make Long Gains On Forward Passes While the Presbyterians Put Up Game and Determined Fight.

Fighting like demons, Fetzer’s “Red and Black Machine” put up one of the gamest and finest exhibitions of football on
last Saturday that has ever been seen in the State, and opened the eyes of the 2,300 spectators by holding
the heavy North Carolina team to the score of 16 to 3. “The best team Carolina has ever had,” aspiring
for Southern championship, was outplayed 2 to 4 in the first half of the game, in Winston-Salem. Though outweighing Davidson
fifteen pounds per player, Carolina was played off its feet in these first two quarters, and for the first time
this year, they were held scoreless in the first half. With three points ahead, the Presbyterians had broken up Carolina's
fierce attacks, had thrown her runners for big losses time after time, and had outplayed the “Bulldogs” in every department
of the game. The final score of 16 to 3 does not begin to tell how close and hard-fought the
game really was, for though outscored, the Davidsonians were not outplayed. Throughout the game they showed far more spirit than
the Tar Heels. Carolina was absolutely unable to make any consistent gains through Davidson's line. Big Vandy, Cowell, Jones, and
Ramsey met their match for once this year. Carolina excelled in only one department, and that was in forward passing,
and to this only can be attributed their victory. The way in which White, Glover, Captain Howell, Anderson, and VanDevanter
smothered Carolina’s terrific line plays, held the powerful backs like a stone wall, and broke up the famous and renowned
Tar Heel shifts was a wonderful sight.

TOWN

A delightful Halloween party was given Saturday night by Misses Hope, Payne, and Johnson at the home of Mrs. Johnson.
Spirits, spooks, and ghosts presided over the merry making until the stroke of the clock announced the approach of Sunday.

Mr. and Mrs. J. I. Lane, of Palatka, Fla., spent Sunday here as guests of their son, Mr. D. W.
Lane.

Rev. Dr. Lacy Little filled the pulpit both for the morning and evening services here Sunday, speaking before a large
gathering, on China. Mrs. Lacy Little addressed the ladies of the town Monday afternoon, on foreign missions in China.

Mrs. Larrason and Miss Jennie Larrason left Monday morning for Vancouver, where they will make their home in the future.
During their two years of residence here they have made many friends.

The many friends of Mrs. Fulton are glad to note that she has returned after spending the summer in Danville,
Ky.

Mrs. Vardell left Tuesday for Red Springs, N. C., after spending the past month here visiting Mrs. Martin.

Mrs. W. D. Vinson spent Sunday in Rock Hill, S.C.

Miss Sarah Wooten, of Queens College, spent Sunday here with her mother.Points came in the second quarter, after Carolina for
the third time had failed to gain the required distance, immediately after White had recovered Long's fumble. With the ball
on the forty-yard line, McKinnon’s trusty toe sent it sailing between the goal posts. On three other occasions Davidson with
luck would have scored. First, when White recovered a fumble he was bound for a touchdown with an open field
and was tackled from behind on Carolina’s twenty-yard line. Second, Austin narrowly missed a forward pass with a clear field
before him. Third, when Crayton caught the last forward pass there was only one Tar Heel between him and the
goal, but he tackled him after a thirty-yard run. Carolina’s touchdowns came as a result of several well-executed forward passes.
In each case, the runner was tackled at the end of the play after making significant yardage, turning the tide
in their favor.

The remaining feature of the battle was the brilliant effort put on by Fetzer’s entire team and the far superior
endurance of the Davidson men. The playing of the backs was great. McKinnon was a star throughout; some of his
punts went for over sixty yards. Walker, Black, and Laird all played great ball.

(Continued on page 4)

JUNIORS WIN TWO GAMES.

After losing the first three games, the Juniors came back strong, winning from the Freshmen on Tuesday, 20-20, and from
the Seniors on Wednesday, 12-0. A change in the Juniors' lineup, which resulted in better teamwork to some extent, accounts
for this reversal of form. On Tuesday, after the first few minutes of play, the Juniors were never headed, completely
outclassing the league leaders. By the second half, Captain Carson sustained an injury which will keep him out of the
remaining games for the Freshmen. Worth and Heneveld played a good game, while Carson, Tiffany, and Duntas starred for the
Juniors.

The game Wednesday was the hardest fought of the season, only two field goals being scored in the first half.
The result of the game was in doubt until the last few minutes of play, when the Juniors succeeded in
shooting two goals. The low score shows the work of the guards, while Howe’s playing at forward was the feature
of the game.

Standing of the teams to date:
Won. Lost. Percentage
Freshmen 3 1 .750
Seniors 2 2 .500
Juniors 2 3 .400
Sophomores 1 2 .333

Rev. T. H. Spence, of Smithfield, N.C., class of ‘07, and winner of the Junior medal, was a campus visitor
here Monday. Rev. R. A. Melend (‘08) and Rev. T. P. Bales (‘00) stopped over for Davidson Day last Thursday.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON N.C., NOVEMBER 4, 1914.

They can count on for a great deal. Contest With Furman Last Game on Hill. South Carolina and Wake Forest
Will Follow. Both Have Developed Strong Teams.

There are only three more games for the Red and Black this season, namely, Furman, University of South Carolina, and
Wake Forest. The first of the above teams comes to the Hill next Saturday with an aggressive bunch of players.
It is Furman’s second year of football, and this season she has measured her strength against Clemson, Wofford, and many
other colleges in South Carolina, and they have not failed to show an abundance of fight and pep, and in
such a manner they defeated Wofford. Last Saturday they met Mercer in a hard-fought game, and although they lost, Mercer
was pushed more than once, which shows considerable improvement since the season began. Her players are young and light but
heady and scrappy, and promise Davidson a good game. The probable lineup is as follows: Center, M. Mobley; right guard,
Bates; right tackle, Vinsley; right end, Gregory; left guard, Rice; left tackle, Jones; left end, Ford; quarter, Johns; right half-back,
H. Mobley; left half-back, Nelson; full back, Gorsette.

On November 19, Davidson meets her old rival “The Gamecocks” in Columbia. This promises to be a hard-fought game because
Carolina has three men whom they can use against Davidson who were ruled out against Clemson, Newberry, and other teams
in the South Atlantic League. They are Passailaigue, Plaxico, and Johnson. The first is a fast and heavy backfield man.
The second is a ten-second end and will doubtless create much excitement. Then, Jake Deaver is getting into better shape
every day. The Gamecock squad is well-coached this season by Edgerton, an old Davidson star, and Costello, the All-South Atlantic
quarterback at Georgetown last year. They are laying for Davidson and will put up a great fight.

The Thanksgiving game, which is to be played in Charlotte against “The Baptists,” is going to be a corker. Wake
Forest has been increasing in strength every day and last Saturday they defeated Elon College, who have an unusually good
team this year and have always had the reputation of putting out strong teams. The score was 20-0. Billings is
a great player and a heady and fast quarter. They have a fast ground gainer and both Riddick and Beam
are hard line plungers. Also, Dutch Witherington is a strong backfield man. The line is larger and heavier than usual
this year, and they are hard chargers. They are looking forward to the game with “The Red and Black” with
much anticipation and with determination, they say, to get revenge for defeats of the past two years. So their slogan
is “On to Charlotte — Beat Davidson!”

GIBBS ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.

Last Thursday night C. M. Gibbs, of the Senior class, addressed the regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A.
Mr. Gibbs is a very sincere, earnest speaker, and held a large audience deeply interested as he developed his subject,
“Reverence.” A great deal will be added to the success of the Y. M. C. A. meetings if the men
assemble promptly at 7:15 p.m. rather than at 7:20 or 7:30.

Ralston Shoes for sale by Rowland G. McIntire, 10 Ch. & 15 W.
