CUSHMAN Kodak Work 2 Films for 15c. Photographer For the Annual SEE ALR. HOWLAND 26 Rumple

About that Commencement! A Good Fit is Always Given by Wanamaker & Brown, Philadelphia The Right Styles and at Reasonable
Prices, too.

What is like getting Money from Home without waiting? Selling Fruit Stock for Virginia Nurseries A weekly check larger than
you would like to have come to you here monthly SEE AT ONCE L. G. EDGERTON 13 Chambers

"S. W." Rogers ('14) was on the Hill last week, training his Davidson squad of book sellers for the J.
& A. Hertel Co. The Davidson squad will be in direct charge of the two managers, M. A. Boggs and
W. A. Johnson, and includes eight men. Dr. Sentelle attended Mecklenburg Presbytery for a day and a half last week.

DAVIDSONIAN is a new venture of your younger brethren of the College. It has a possible power for doing a
great deal for the Institution. Much will depend on its circulation among the Alumni. Rally to it, subscribe, and secure
others. Read the letters from myself in this issue and put your shoulder to the wheel. Fraternally yours, Wm. J.
MARTIN, President.

ALUMNI NOTES.

Joe P. Moore ('11) is superintendent of the High School in Richburg, S.C. "Joe" is having great success with his
school. He has just put out a champion baseball and track team.

"Red" Matthews ('12) is working for Heath & Co., cotton dealers in Columbia, and is getting along fine.

Spencer R. McCouts ('12) is working in Hartsville, S.C., and "Johnie" R. McAlpine, who was in school last year, is
working in the same city.

J. Cooper Young, who dropped out of school year before last, is now working in the State Insurance Department, in
Raleigh.

"Ty" Cobb ('12) is in the Insurance business in Winston-Salem.

"Kildee" O. Moore ('15), former Davidson student, is having great success farming scientifically in McConnellsville, S.C.

Henry Yates and L. Richardson, both former football stars on the Varsity, are in business now in Greensboro, N.C.

Ralph B. Simmons ('12) is now working with his father in Charleston. He is studying medicine in Atlanta.

Spencer R. McMaster, formerly a student here, is now at Randolph-Macon College.

Edward White is settled down in business at Chester, S.C. and is doing well.

"Ding" Bell ('12) and former Varsity twirler, held the Charlotte Hornets to 6 runs in a close game last Saturday.

Bob Fetzer, Bill Fetzer, and DeWitt Kluttz, all graduates of Davidson College, will run a boys’ summer camp school at
Brevard this summer. The name of it is Cherokee Camp, and it is to be an ideal place. They had
big success last summer.

Dan Henderson, an old alumnus,is prospering in business in Columbia. Jim Smith (’13) is in business in Easley. ** “Bobby”
Wearn (’13) is studying medicine at Harvard. H. L. Barr (’13) is in business in Greenville, S.C. Joe Roddey (’14)
is studying at Princeton now. R. L. Daniel, who was here last year, “Tut” Crawford (’13), “Swinette” Smith (’12), John
B. Duffie (’13), are studying law at the U. of C. Troy Dunn (’11) is studying civil engineering at the
same “school house.”

* * *

Harry Bachman (’13) is at Pennsylvania. Bonnar White, George R. Wilkinson, E. L. Bishop are now at U. of Maryland.

* * *

J. W. Moore (’12) is teaching school at Winston-Salem. Joe Moore (’11) is teaching school at Richburg, S.C.

* * *

D. H. Nisbet (’13) is at Harvard Medical School. O. S. Crawford (’13) is at University of S.C., studying law.
Henry Leroy Moore (’07), better known as “Solomon,” will be married on April 29 at Barnsville, Ga., to Miss Martha
Stafford. Mr. Moore is a member of the faculty of Gordon Institute.

* * *

Dr. M. McM. McKay and his son, Mr. Malcolm McKay, are located at Fort Smith, Ark. Dr. McKay was a
delegate to the World’s Missionary Convention in Scotland. C. L. Ferran (’13) has married and settled in Eustice, Fla.

FIVE YEARS OF INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATING.

Easter Monday closed the fifth year of Davidson's inter-collegiate debating, with the winning of the cup from Wake Forest. The
record for these years has been a good one, especially when the fact is considered that Davidson has only a
collegiate department while institutions with which she has contended have other schools connected with them, and are larger institutions as
well. The record is as follows:

Five debates with Wake Forest—three won by Davidson; two won by Wake Forest. Two debates with Wofford—both won by Davidson.
Three debates with the University of South Carolina—one won by Davidson; two won by U.S.C. Total—six debates won and four
lost.

The debaters in these contests were as follows (numerals indicate the number of debates participated in): S. A. Linley, ’09
(1); McLeod, ’09 (1); D. Yah, ’10 (1); Ruffner, Campbell, ’10 (1); M. S. Huse, ’11 (2); James Allan, Jr.
’11 (2); ’12 (2); T. A. B. ’13 (1); Smith, ’13 (3); S. Golen, ’13 (2); H. Marvin, ’14 (2).

Waterman's and Parker's Fountain Pens
Nunnally’s Candy
Full Line of STATIONERY

* * *

WALKER Makes ’em Better
—See—
Rowland & McKoy
15 Watts
Agents for T. A. Walker Tailoring Co.
Greensboro, N.C.

LOOK! Now is the time to get your Spring Suit and why not get a CUTTER? 15% Reduction on all
Orders. Satisfaction Guaranteed. Come and see

M. K. CARMICHAEL
84 Chambers

Can You Afford to Wait? I still have a few boxes of Seal Stationery. See me before they are all
gone. Only 50 cts. per box.

J. C. HARPER
