2 eo OOOeeeeOSaaaaaaa_ms— 

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price........ Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick....... Business Manager
W. C. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

REPORTERS’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
E. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

THE WHOLE SEASON.

Taken as a whole, the season just past is one of the most successful that Davidson has ever had. It cannot be called a brilliant season, although there were flashes of superb form. Rather were the games played characterized by steadiness, coolness, and determined fight on the part of the little Red and Black Machine, which Coaches Fetzer and Harris whipped, with hard work, into form. The narrow victory in Charlotte last Thursday, when Wake Forest displayed surprising strength, was a disappointment to some, but no Davidson man or alumnus has aught but unstinted praise for the splendid team which has fought through the season of nine games with only one defeat. This record has never been bettered at Davidson. In only three seasons before this one, has Davidson come through with only one defeat, and it remains yet for her to establish the record of a defeatless season. In 1900, 1904, and 1907, the Red and Blacks lost to Clemson, V. M. I., and A. & M., while winning in every other game. In the wonderful 1910 season, when North Carolina was vanquished, Davidson lost to V. P. I. and Washington and Lee. So, barring perhaps 1907, when Davidson tied Virginia and defeated V. M. I., Clemson, and V. P. I., and 1910, when the "Tarheels" went down before us, the 1914 season has been as fine as any since intercollegiate athletics were begun here.

Considering Davidson's records for the past fourteen years with the colleges which were played this year, the season stands out all the better. Clemson was held to a tie this year. The games with Clemson now stand: Davidson won 2, tied 2, lost 9. North Carolina's score against Davidson this year was by no means the largest ever rolled up. In 1902 Davidson was defeated by her 27-0, when her team was not even classed with the other universities. Since 1900 North Carolina has won 6 games from Davidson, tied 3, and lost 1. Davidson is far ahead in her record with South Carolina, having won 8 games from the university, while only 2 have been lost. Wake Forest has been defeated 5 times, and has never won. The University of Georgia was not played this year, but it is to be hoped that athletic relations may be begun again with them. Georgia has defeated Davidson once, tied her twice, and lost to her twice. Davidson has come through this year with a large margin of points, with the satisfaction of having won every game but one, and of having held North Carolina’s powerful eleven to two touchdowns. Clemson defeated Georgia, and Davidson held Clemson to a tie. South Carolina has been vanquished again. To our unexcelled and untiring coaches, to the loyal and faithful alumni and supporters of the Red and Blacks, and the fine spirit of the student body this year, is due the record of the 1914 football season.

CONSTITUTION AMENDED.

At a meeting of the student body in Shearer Hall last Saturday morning after chapel, an amendment to Article I, Section 7, of the Constitution of the Student Body, relating to the oath of office required of members of the Student Council, was passed. The section as amended now reads as follows:

"Before entering upon the duties of their offices, the above officers shall each take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation; but no one shall be allowed to take the affirmation in preference to the oath unless he can show what shall in the estimation of at least two-thirds of the Student Council be considered a valid and sufficient reason: 'I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will, to the best of my ability, perform the duties of the office to which I have been elected; that I will neither charge anyone nor so far as I canknow encourage anyone to be charged or tried from envy, hatred or malice, nor shall I suffer anyone to escape the proper judgment of the students’ council or student body, for fear, favor, affection, reward, or hope of reward, so help me God.” The section as it now stands thus allows anyone not wishing to use the form “swear” because of religious scruples, to take the affirmation; but in each case the concluding words, which are essential to an oath, and which invoke the Divine aid, are the same.

PEACE CONTEST SATURDAY NIGHT

Next Saturday at 7:55 p.m., in Shearer Hall, a preliminary Peace Contest will be held for the purpose of selecting Davidson's representative to the State Peace Contest which will be held in January before the State Legislature at Raleigh. A committee of the faculty will act as judges in the contest. At the State contest last year Davidson’s representative, B. F. Pim, Jr., won second prize. An added feature of the occasion will be a brief address on “Peace from an Ethical Point of View,” by Dr. J. M. McConnell. His address will bear mostly upon the Treaty of Ghent, the hundredth anniversary of which occurs this year. The contestants and their subjects follow: D. M. McGeachy, “The Principle of Peace;” Norman Johnson, “Peace Heroic;” N. P. Farrior, “A Call To Union;” H. Morrison, “Disarmament, Love, Peace;” J. B. Arrowood, “Vanity of Vanities;” J. G. Patton, “The Danger of the Present Peace Movement;” F. H. Smith, “The Pure Press.”

RESULTS OF SENIOR SPEAKING ANNOUNCED

The committee of the faculty which was appointed to judge the speeches in the Senior Oratorical Exercises have rendered their decision. The men whom they selected, arranged alphabetically, are: J. W. S. Gilchrist, Norman Johnson, and Alfred Scarborough. Mr. Gilchrist’s subject was “The Literature of the Future;” Mr. Johnson's was “Peace Heroic;” and that of Mr. Scarborough, “Americanism.”

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE

On account of the increasing amount of work to be done just before examinations, the Philanthropic Society adjourned Monday morning until after Christmas. The Eumenean Society: Debate, December 5, Affirmative: McNeil, Mebane, Mitchell, F. M., and Meek; Negative: Dumas, Rouse, Mitchell, T. J., and Rowland. December 7, Orations: Scott, Shaw and Hay; Declamations: Morton, Patterson, Porter, Price, P. B., Roddey. The following is the schedule for LOST—One raincoat at church Sunday morning. Initials I. D. S. on collar. Finder please return to No. 28 Ga. and receive reward.

WANT ADS. RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

FRESHMEN WIN BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP

The Freshmen defeated the Seniors before a large audience Friday afternoon by the score of 17 to 6, which gives them the championship of the series. The game was clean and exciting, and at the end of the first half the honors were equally divided. In the second half, Minter received an injury that forced him to the bench, which greatly weakened the Seniors' chances. This leaves the Seniors and Juniors tied for second honors.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

The Civic League has furnished the school with a new library of over $200 worth of books. $100 in cash alone was supplied by the League. The sanitary conditions of the school were also taken over by the ladies and greatly improved.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL.

Stationery, Sofa Pillows, Pennants, Banners, Anything in Felt or Leather Goods. FAW & CARTER, NO. 6 RUMPLE.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty, Thorough Instruction, WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES.

JUST RECEIVED FROM BROADWAY DIRECT A New Line of HATS and CAPS. A Fine Selection at Popular Prices. ARMOUR BROTHERS & THOMPSON HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN HABERDASHER GOODS.

We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods and Notions. The Swellest Styles of the Season. See us before you buy. Brown-Knox Mercantile Company.