4 OOO Y. AY ELON COLLEGE. (Concluded from page 1)

day school in order that that hour might be devoted to the regular conference discussion. At the eleven o'clock hour, Rev. Hounshell preached a masterful sermon on the power of Christianity in the human life. In the afternoon, Dr. Atkinson addressed the conference on “Hungering for Hell,” giving the constant challenge to evangelism. The closing session of the conference was held Sunday night, when Dr. Weatherford gave a vivid account of his missionary tour of the Orient, from the viewpoint of an American student, and not that of a missionary. The report of the committee appointed by Mr. Wilson to outline the general policy for the North Carolina Associations for the coming year, as discussed in the convention, was read by Mr. Frank Graham, and was unanimously adopted. In closing his report, Mr. Graham thanked Elon College for its cordial hospitality. Dr. Harper replied, thanking in turn the delegates for the spiritual uplift they had brought into Elon. Catawba College invited the conference to meet with them next year.

ENTERTAINMENT.

The delegates were entertained during their stay at Elon in the homes of the faculty and the residents of the town. The cabinets of the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A. of Elon, the faculty, and the leaders of the conference took their meals together in the college dining room, the ninety-odd delegates being grouped according to their colleges. Every meal, the room rang with college yells and songs, and in this as in all other phases, Davidson well accounted for herself. The Y. W. C. A. cabinet delighted the delegates with their original and unique songs of welcome. (Just ask Bill Copeland about the splendid fare and the good management). The spirit of good fellowship between the colleges was shown in their athletic activities. On Friday afternoon, Trinity beat Guilford in basketball, 9 to 4. Saturday, Davidson defeated Wake Forest, 25 to 6. Wake Forest was seriously hampered by the absence of two key men who were late getting into the game. They played a clean, manly game, and Davidson was glad of the opportunity to play against such worthy opponents. The Davidson line-up was as follows: Center, Dumas; Forwards, Copeland and Patton; Guards, Price and Somerville; Substitute, Rankin.

The DAVIDSONIAN. October 14, 1914

Y. M. C. A. CONFERENCE HELD

DAVIDSON DEFEATS NEWBERRY 22 TO 7. (Concluded from page 1)

Davidson. Position. Newberry.
White .......... Crotwell Center
Glover .......... Deaton Right Guard
Grey ............ Shealey Left Guard
Anderson ....... Derrick Right Tackle
Howell (Capt.) .. Weadage Left Tackle
Austin .......... Ashbault Right End
Laird ........... Ranken Left End
Black ........... Baker Right Halfback
Walker .......... Swanton Left Halfback
McKinnon ....... Slater Fullback
Keesler ......... McLean (Capt.) Quarterback

Touchdowns for Davidson: Laird, McKinnon, and Walker; Newberry: Swanton. Time of quarters, 11 minutes. Referee, McFadden. Umpire, Peden. Head linesman, Wunder.

BRIGHT PROSPECTS FOR CLASS BASKETBALL.

The class basketball season has opened with plenty of pep and some snappy games are anticipated. The Soph-Junior game will probably be the hardest fought contest. Managers have been elected as follows: Senior, I. C. McDonald; Junior, R. Perry; Soph, C. B. Williams; Fresh, S. R. Fowle. As yet, but two captains have been elected, Jim Carson for the Freshmen. All games will be played on the recently enlarged court in the gymnasium and the schedule is as follows:

Friday, October 16, Fresh-Junior, 2:30
Friday, October 16, Soph-Senior, 4:00
Monday, October 19, Senior-Fresh, 2:30
Monday, October 19, Soph-Junior, 4:00
Wednesday, Oct. 21, Senior-Junior, 2:30
Friday, October 23, Soph-Fresh, 2:30
Monday, October 26, Fresh-Junior, 2:30
Monday, October 26, Soph-Senior, 4:00
Wednesday, Oct. 28, Senior-Junior, 2:30
Friday, October 30, Senior-Fresh, 2:30
Monday, November 2, Soph-Junior, 2:30
Friday, November 6, Soph-Fresh, 2:30

DAVIDSON “BULLIES.”

The most enjoyable social event was a garden party, given following the afternoon on Thursday. The receiving line was composed of the members of the Y. W. C. A. The campus was beautifully decorated with pennants, and refreshments were served.op! . * . : ” ever-greens. Punch was served from a flower-decked booth, by the Y. W. C. A. cabinet. Music was furnished by the Elon Band. The following squad represented the “Brullies”: Edgerton, White, Hughes, Whiteside, Howell, Shaw, Smith, Ives, Hill, Fowle, Crouch, Finley, Thomas, and Causar. Dr. C. H. Wunder accompanied the team.

Saturday night a reception was given in the West Dormitory by the Y. W. C. A. The feature of the evening was a “progressive conversation party” with two-minute changes. Rules were again suspended from 3:30 to 4:20 Sunday afternoon, in favor of the visitors, and they did not fail to take advantage of it. The Davidson delegation reluctantly left the college Monday morning and reached Davidson at noon. They are unanimous in their declaration that a better conference has never been held and are sure that the entertainment has never been equaled.

Delegation.

HAVE FORMED STUDENT SUPERVISION COMMITTEE.

Coach Fetzer has organized a student supervision committee in an effort to prevent any loss to the team on account of the faculty ruling that before a student can take part in an intercollegiate athletic contest he must be passing at least three studies. Coaches Fetzer and Harris will be glad to help any members of the team who are on the ragged edge.

MARSHALS ELECTED BY TWO LITERARY SOCIETIES.

(Continued on page 4)

C. H. Rowan nominated A. R. Howland, F. S. Harkey seconding. J. H. Carson was nominated by W. T. Wirt, E. R. Howland seconding. J. L. Payne was then nominated by H. W. Ormond, E. J. McIntyre seconding, and after him were nominated A. M. McKeithan and W. C. Rourke by J. F. Carriker and H. G. Clary. R. T. Finley, F. L. Harkey, and V. D. Sparrow were elected on the first ballot, and J. L. Payne was elected over W. C. Rourke on the second. While the marshals were preparing their “set-up” both societies were entertained by speeches from the Freshmen, which were heard with great enthusiasm. After being waited upon by committees to assist in hurrying preparations, the newly elected marshals returned to be received with open hands and mouths by the hungry societies.

White Drug Co.
PRESCRIPTIONS
Carefully compounded by registered Pharmacists

While in Charlotte
VISIT TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers

You are cordially invited to inspect our line of DRUGS

Satisfied customers are our best advertisement

EAT AT FRAZIER’S CAFE

Not “How Much?” but “how good” is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The old saying that “a man is judged by the candy he gives” holds good today same as always. Buy the best—don’t take the “just as good” kind. Nothing quite equals famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively exclusive class to themselves. Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam does the rest.

Jetton Drug Co.

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

TO THE LOVER of sane and healthy sport, the Spalding trade-mark needs no introduction. For nearly two-score years we have been catering to sport-loving America, from the simplest pastimes of childhood to the highly developed game of the college football elevens. Forty-three stores in the largest cities of the world testify to the universal esteem in which Spalding Quality is held.

CATALOGUE ON REQUEST

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St. : : : ATLANTA, GA.

QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS
PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right.

Every Day
Livery, Feed & Sale Stables
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
Phone No. 74-L
Watch me Light
DAVIDSON :: N.C.