4 DAVIDSON DEFEATS GAMECOCKS 13-7. (Concluded from page 1)

Davidson is penalized 15 for holding in line. Keesler spurts for 9 around end. Black gains 14. Keesler lost 3,
Hampton tackling. McKinnon punts to Brooker. Carolina’s ball, 41-yard line. Heyward’s punt rolls over the touchdown line. Davidson's ball, 20-yard
line. McKinnon boots back 55 and Brooker downed on 25-yard line. First forward pass is executed for 20, Stoney to
Plaxico. Perry on end run is downed on Crayton’s pretty tackle. Long pass is broken up in great style by
Walker, C. Two more fail; ball goes over. Davidson's ball, 37-yard line.

Second Quarter: Keesler gains 5; McKinnon punts 35. Brooker returns 10. White breaks through and throws Going for loss. Heyward
gains 3; Perry 2. Heyward punts 35; McKinnon kicks back 35. Heyward lost 2. Near side-line; ball was passed out
of bounds, giving Carolina first down. Laird makes a great tackle of Heyward on end run and throws for a
loss. Pass, Stoney to Heyward, nets 8. Forward pass fails. Heyward punts 50. Keesler downed on 10-yard line by Plaxico.
Near side-line, McKinnon punts 10 and out of bounds. Carolina’s ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line. Pass was fumbled by Brooker,
but he recovered. Pass, Stoney to Plaxico, was executed and the speedy “Gamecock” was tackled, but the ball crossed 1
foot inside the extreme corner, and was first touchdown. Stoney punted out. Heyward kicked goal. Anderson receives kick-off and on
beautiful run brings ball to middle of field. Walker, C., gains 10; Laird makes a wonderful run through line and
backfield by plunging and clever side-stepping, but is downed finally after a 30-yard run by Heyward. A few gains are
made, several forward passes are executed, Keesler to Walker, and Keesler to Ansley, and the ball seesawed in middle of
field, and when half was up it was Carolina’s ball on Davidson's 37-yard line. Carolina 7, Davidson 0.

Second Half: McKinnon kicked off to Hill, who returned 15 to 30-yard line. Heyward no gain; Hill gains 5. Carolina
penalized 5 for backfield offside. On next play White, bursting through Carolina’s line, blocked the punt, and recovered on Carolina's
20-yard line. It was a great play. Walker, C., gains 5, then 2. A forward pass to Walker, R., by
Keesler is carried over for Davidson’s first touchdown. McKinnon punts out to Ansley and kicks goal. Davidson 7, Carolina 7.
McKinnon kicks to Plaxico; he returns 15 to 30-yard line. Forward pass to Brooker fails. Black intercepts pass on Davidson's
35-yard line, then gains 5 through line. Hill intercepts pass. Carolina penalized 15 for Costello's coaching from side-lines. Heyward punts
50 to middle of field. Walker, C., gains 1. Black, on fake forward pass, handled by three, gains 12. Walker,
C., adds 6 more, then 4. Heyward, interfering with forward pass receiver, Carolina’s penalized 15. Several magnificent line charges were
made by Walker, C., and McKinnon, the latter finally carrying the ball across for second touchdown. McKinnon fails to kick
goal for one of first times this fall. Davidson 13, Carolina 7. Heyward kicks off to Keesler, who returned 10
to 30-yard line. Forward pass fails; Black slight gain. McKinnon punts 40; Brooker downed in middle of field. Three successive
long forward passes are broken up by Davidson backs. Heyward punted 45. Keesler downed on 18-yard line. McKinnon punts 40.
Stoney makes 10 on fake forward pass. Forward pass fails. McKinnon intercepts pass on 34-yard line. Pass fails. McKinnon punts
40. Pass beautifully executed, Stoney to Plaxico, for 28. Pass is broken up. McKinnon intercepts next pass. Davidson ball on
own 20-yard line.

Final Quarter: Almost impossible to follow ball because of darkness. Walker, C., gains 10; McKinnon bursts line for 6. Davidson
penalized 5, offside. Forward pass fails. Walker, C., gains 10. Girardeau blocks punt, but Keesler recovers. Black goes around end
for 15 on pretty run. Fake fails for more than 2. Black gains 4, McKinnon 4. Forward pass fails; Black
gains 12. Ball was fumbled. Carolina recovers on her 20-yard line. Heyward gains 9. Getting very dark, hardly able to
distinguish players. On fake Heyward gains 25, Hill 3. Forward pass fails. Plaxico makes a beautiful circling end run in
the darkness and is finally downed on Davidson’s 5-yard line. Davidson puts up fine defense. Heyward is thrown for 15-yard
loss. Davidson recovers on fumble by Carolina on next play and has ball on 20-yard line.line. Because it was nearly
impossible to see the hand before one’s face, and neither referee nor players could follow the ball, the game was
called.

While in Charlotte
TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The best work by Experienced Barbers

WILD SCENES ON CAMPUS. COME TO SEE US

The first two reports of the Davidson-South Carolina game were received at 4:30 and 6:00 p.m. The second report told
of Carolina’s first touchdown and by a mistake was so worded as to leave the impression that the game was
over. A dismal crowd strode back from campus. “I don’t see how they did it!” was the common exclamation. The
telegraph office had been closed after the second telegram, but when it was opened again just before 7, and the
last reports came in, a yelling began in town that brought the students pell-mell out of Davidson College boarding houses
in joy. Wild scenes of enthusiasm followed on the campus and but for the pouring rain a shirt-tail parade would
undoubtedly have been started.

TWO DEBATES IN SPRING.

Definite arrangements as to the time and place of the two intercollegiate debates to be held next spring have not
yet been made, but it is reasonably certain that Emory College, of Georgia, will be debated somewhere in that State.
Agnes Scott. Clemson will be debated at some place in South Carolina about Easter Monday, it is hoped in Rock
Hill. The subjects for these debates will be decided upon by December 8, and the first preliminaries will be held
soon after. Further particulars will be announced later as they are arranged by the Debating Council.

MOOSE STUDIO BURNS.

The studio of Moose & Son, of Greensboro, who are doing the photographic work for Quips and Cranks, was destroyed
by fire Saturday, the 14th, and the Annual were destroyed. Davidson was not the only college to suffer, as Mr.
Moose is doing work for several other annuals in this State and South Carolina. Fortunately, the group pictures had been
delivered to the editors of Quips and Cranks before the fire, but practically all of the individual pictures will have
to be done over. Mr. Moose will be here early in December to take pictures again. The editors of Quips
and Cranks wish to express their sympathy for Mr. Moose in his misfortune.

ORCHESTRA CONCERT.

The Orchestra and Glee Club expect to give a concert here Saturday night, November 28. The performance will take place
in Shearer Hall at 7:30 p.m. Both the Orchestra and Glee Club show a marked improvement over last year. The
Glee Club has not only more members but has been able to secure the services of a very good leader
to train them during the past two months. The Orchestra has likewise been practicing for a month. All may expect
some high-class music.

On Thursday night, November 26, the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert at Queens College, Charlotte.

EAT AT SLOAN’S QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS, PASTRIES & CANDIES
He Will Treat You Right. Open Every Day ‘Till 12 P.M.
See me for that Ford motor trip to Charlotte
“Watch the Light”
