The DAVIDSONIAN. April 8, 1914

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four Per Cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four Per Cent. Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

PRINTING
Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc.
Promptly and correctly executed. Inquiries Solicited.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Ich zebbible nicht
Because all the boys send their Clothes to MAYHEW’S SUITORIUM
The shop that pleases.

Let Us Press You
We put the steam roller crease on your pants.
Mayhew Mayhew Mayhew

You hear this question time often. When in doubt call and have me examine your watch and keep it in
good repair. I also carry a line of WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY.
W. M. TORRENCE

A Complete Line.
Go to ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON
HABERDASHERS
The Style Plus Quality Shop
Everything that’s new and up-to-date. Altman Ties, Regal Shoes, Beacon Shoes, Strong & Garfield Shoes, Shaw Knitt Hosiery, Nobby Shirts.
All kinds of Straw Goods in Imports. Newest Creations for Young Men. CALL AND SEE THEM.

Does Your Roof Leak?
It will not if it is repaired by C. B. Mooney
General Contractor
PAINTING. TIN WORK. BRICK WORK
Repair Work of all Kinds
Good and Quick Service.

Star Laundry Co.
DANVILLE, VA.
Special Attention to College Boys
French Dry Cleaning.

Are You Ready for Easter?
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company
Can supply your needs from their GENERAL MERCHANDISE
HOLE PROOF HOSIERY
Positively Guaranteed. Not high in price, but High in Quality.
FLORSHEIM SHOES
For Dress Wear and Hard Service. A FULL LINE
UNDERWEAR B. V. D.’s
The Kind That Keep You Cool.

ALUMNI NOTES
W. O. L. Boggs, of the class of 1912, is this year engaged as General Director of the Greensboro Y.
M. C. A. Boggs is well qualified for this position, having been a member of the Davidson Gym Team.

T. S. Crawford, '93, last year's tennis champion in singles and doubles, is still making a name for himself in
this sport. Crawford is studying medicine at the University of South Carolina, and as a member of the tennis team
he will make a trip into the Northern States, playing at a number of the larger colleges.

Everett Bane, '13, has signed a contract with the Indianapolis Federals for the coming season.

Professors John W. Pratt, Valedictorian of the class of 1908, and Robert M. Fetzer, '07, were added to the faculty
at A. & M. College, Raleigh, N.C. last September.

J. O. Burns, '13, and R. Nainiel, '16, are attending the American Medical College this year.

R. C. Craig is attending the University of Virginia this year and has already won a place on the debating
team against the University of Georgia. Craig was one of the best speakers in college last year and took an
active part in literary society work.

Nat Graham is coaching at the Riverside Military Academy this year. Nat's basketball team won the Prep championship of Georgia,
and his football team met defeat only once during the season.

P. L. Porter Vinson, who will graduate at the University of Maryland in June, has received...Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

An excellent appointment as resident physician in the Vrudéan Hospital, Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ATTACK REPORTER

As a result of an account of a “crap game” published in the Raleigh News and Observer, S. R. Winters,
correspondent for that paper from Chapel Hill, was recently attacked by students of the University of North Carolina in the
lobby of the post office. Only the intervention of the crowd and a hurried call for the police kept him
from being severely beaten. A campaign has been started by the faculty of the University and the authorities of the
town to put down gambling, and several students, together with citizens of the town, were recently arrested and their names
appeared in the article which caused the trouble.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES

The two scholarships founded by Dr. B. W. Green for University of Virginia graduates have been awarded to J. O.
Beaty and D. R. Simmes. Dr. Green left his entire estate of $150,000 for the founding of two scholarships providing
for travel and further study in foreign lands.

The Alumnae Association of Trinity College has set on foot a plan to raise a fund of $100,000 to build
and endow a college for women in connection with the present college plant.

The young women of the University of Missouri have organized a debating club, of which much is expected by the
students.

Students of the School, composed of Kansas Penitentiary inmates, have been holding commencement exercises. Diplomas were awarded and a concert
was given by the prison band. This school was attended throughout the winter by 250 prisoners.

A chapter of the honor fraternity of Phi Kappa Phi has been established at Georgia Tech.

Dr. James Monroe Taylor, for twenty-seven years president of Vassar, has recently resigned and will go to Honolulu. His successor
has not yet been named.

A. D. Hermance, in his will, has left his estate of $200,000, after his wife's death, to the scholarship trust
fund of Cornell. It will be for the maintenance at Cornell of deserving male graduates of Williamsport High School.

The final contest of the High School Debating Union and the second annual interscholastic track meet were held at the
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, on Friday, April 3. About forty schools sent debaters. The preliminary debates were held
Thursday afternoon and Friday morning. The final debate for the Aycock Memorial Cup was held Friday night, and the track
meet Friday afternoon. The query for the debate was, “Resolved, that the Constitution of North Carolina should be so amended
as to allow the Initiative and Referendum in Statewide Legislation.”

The first intercollegiate debate between Southern Women's Colleges was won last Friday night by Agnes Scott, from Sophie Newcomb, at
New Orleans. The subject for debate was that the Federal Government should acquire and operate the telegraph systems of the
country. Agnes Scott was represented on the affirmative by Miss Mary Helen Schneider and Miss Emma Jones. Sophie Newcomb was
represented by Miss Gladys Gibbons and Miss Margaret Fowles.

Work on the new stadium at Princeton, made possible through the gift of $300,000 by Edgar Palmer, of Rye, N.Y.,
will be begun this month with the idea of having the new field finished in time for fall football.

An anonymous publication, The Whompus, devoted entirely to college politics, has made its appearance at Emory College. The business manager
is the only student known to be connected with this paper.

The triangular debates between Emory, Wofford, and Emory and Henry will be held in the three college towns on April
14. Two representatives from Emory will debate Wofford at Spartanburg, and two other representatives will debate Emory and Henry at
Oxford, Ga. Wofford will send two representatives to debate Emory and Henry at Emory, Va. The college team debating at
home will have the affirmative and the visiting team the negative.
