w The DAVIDSONIAN. September 30, 1914

We are receiving daily our New Fall Goods and our stock is open to your inspection. We will be glad to show you our Gent's Furnishing, Shoes, Hats, Caps. Also Furniture, Rugs and Druggets at all prices. Sheets, Pillow Cases, Comforts.

PRINTING Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing. Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed.

Buy Her a Piano Now
Why put it off longer? Our stock of pianos is complete. Our prices are the lowest consistent with quality. We offer a slightly used Stieff Player Piano at a very low price in order to sell it at once.
219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N. C. Opposite Academy of Music

Give your Blankets, Window Shades, and other things to W. A. JOHNSON Davidson College

Just Received
A full line of REGAL SHOES
A. R. HOWLAND, Local Representative

SHU-FIXERY
Shoe Repair Work executed promptly and correctly
M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Armour Bros. & Thompson
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Send Your Suit to SCOFIELD'S Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest Quickest Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly by WM. E. WILLIAMS, Agent

Now’s The Time
For Music And STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S MUSIC STORE
Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.
213 North Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
MAHEW'S PRESSING CLUB
And let a white man give you a white job.
W. Y. SAYAD
No. 7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

Brenau—Brenau has taken quite an interest in the buy-a-bale movement. This college not only accepts cotton at 10 cents a pound for tuition, but the students have held an enthusiastic meeting in which they resolved to have a cotton rally at which dresses of cotton only should be worn. They also determined that they will wear strictly cotton hose for the remainder of the year.

Wake Forest—Dr. Nowell has been added to the Medical Faculty. He will teach the regular Chemistry classes and also conduct a course in Biological Chemistry. Also to their new athletic field they have added an one-eighth mile track.

Horner—Many of Charlotte's ex-stars have volunteered to coach Horner this year. These men were once prominent on the gridirons of A. & M., V.P.I., University of Virginia, University of S.C., Wake Forest, etc.: ing : 23. Clemson—President Riggs, in talking about Clemson's finances this year, said that on account of the small amount that Clemson will derive from the Fertilizer tax, which is her main financial asset, the college will very likely have a deficit on her hands at the end of the present collegiate year.

Trinity has been disappointed in the decision of her board of trustees in regard to the petition from the student body to allow the playing of football. The trustees have refused to grant the request, but the student body stands by their decision without further protest. The college year at Trinity has begun with a more promising outlook than ever before. There are about 225 new students enrolled and the other classes have returned in full force.

University of N. C.—Carolina had a walk-over in her football game last Saturday with Richmond College. The Carolina team showed the good effects of the training which it has undergone this summer. The final score was 41 to 0.

Wake Forest has inaugurated a system by which a complete record of every man's physical condition is kept every year, every man being examined upon registering. Wake Forest athletics are this year entirely under the supervision of the faculty. The faculty will attend to the finances, management, and the coaching, with a committee of three having charge. Dr. William C. Smith has been chosen as coach for football, and Mr. L. R. Crozier for baseball. Dave Robertson, of the New York Giants, will assist in football and baseball. Dr. Smith is a born football player, a Westerner, who has been in the game for years in various institutions. He is a professor in the Medical School. He is working hard for Wake Forest, and if he can put his own spirit into his team, he will make a team that Wake Forest will be proud to support. Sixty men are out for football, and according to reports, the prospects are good.

Methodist University—A reception given to the faculty of the new Methodist University, located in Atlanta, last Friday night, at Wesley Memorial Church, was attended by more than 1,200 guests.

Georgia Tech—Owing to unsettled conditions, the period of registration for the Tech free night school has been extended two weeks.

Furman—Furman College opened last Tuesday with a good attendance. During the summer the dormitories have been renovated thoroughly and on this account, the opening of the college was postponed until after the regular date.

A. & M. College, at Raleigh, has enrolled this year 612 students, many more being expected to come in this week. Out of this number, 235 are taking the agriculture course, the largest in the history of the college.