VOL 2. Blythe Writes About Alumni Association Congratulates Team on Successful Season and Appeals to the Alumni for Support. The Davidson Alumni Athletic Association, which was organized last Spring, has done tremendous work already for Davidson athletics. They have put it upon a new and firm basis and have been instrumental in securing efficient and capable coaches. The result has been a splendid football season and a rejuvenation of the old Davidson spirit. But the Association is facing a serious situation in its plans for next year. The following letter from Mr. F. L. Blythe ('07), the enthusiastic and able President of the Alumni Association, is a word of congratulation to the Davidson student body and team, and an earnest appeal to the alumni who have been so loyal to Davidson in the past:

"In the name of the host of loyal Davidson Alumni who are proud of the achievements of our college and its athletic teams, I want to congratulate the football team, the coaches, the college, and the alumni themselves on the most excellent team we have this year. We are proud of the splendid showing against the University at Winston-Salem on Saturday. We are proud of the season’s record so far. We are proud of the fine spirit displayed by the team and among the students. It is in truth a revival of that old spirit, wholesome and unconquerable, that so many of us alumni remember so well and that fills us with pride and enthusiasm as we recount the achievements of our Alma Mater.

"It is remarkable that from a student body of three hundred and nineteen students a football team, every member of which is a bona fide student and a gentleman, can be chosen and trained to meet, with such wonderful success, teams representing institutions whose enrollments range from four and five hundred to nearly a thousand. The Red and Black Machine played the strong Clemson team to a 0-0 score; Newberry was defeated 23-7; Wofford received a crushing defeat, 86-6; the formidable team from the Citadel was beaten 16-0; and all Carolina’s dope was upset by the Red and Black’s holding the Vanderbilt conquerors to a 16-3 score.

"Fellow Alumni, I call your attention to this splendid record and to the revival of a wholesome spirit of college loyalty among the students. I want to point you to the fact that these excellent conditions prevail for two reasons: directly, because Davidson has in Mr. R. A. Fetzer and his able assistant, Mr. Nelson Harris, the best coaching staff she ever had; indirectly, because the Alumni are showing an active interest in the college and the athletic teams, and it is due largely to the Alumni that these coaches are at Davidson. The students realize and appreciate our interest in them and are grateful to the Alumni for these excellent men as coaches.

"The Alumni can derive the same benefit and satisfaction from the success of our teams as the students on the Hill, and we are in better positions to pay the coaches. So I want to ask you loyal Alumni who are reading this to shell out some of that European War reserve fund and help pay these men for their services, which have been most valuable to our teams, our college, and to you. War or no war, we must have three (Continued on page 4)

Ralston Shoes for sale by Rowland & McIntire.

COACH "BOB" FETZER Who has rejuvenated Davidson Athletics by his excellent coaching.

TOWN ITEMS. The Delburg Cotton Mills Company has started to erect a large cotton warehouse on their present factory site. The building will have a capacity of about 800 bales and will be a large factor in the cotton industry in this county.

ASST. COACH NELSON HARRIS Who by his football knowledge and enthusiasm has been a big factor in Davidson's successful season.

VARSITY DEFEATS SCRUBS. In a snappy game, with plenty of fight from start to finish, the Varsity triumphed over the Scrubs on Sprunt Field, Friday afternoon, by scoring 21 points to their 10. The game was arranged after Furman canceled her game with Davidson for November 7. The sidelines were crowded with students, and the yells for both Varsity and Scrubs were loud and enthusiastic.

On the first Sunday of this month, the Gilwood people celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of their church. Rev. W. M. Shaw, of Wilmington, preached at the morning service, and Rev. J. M. Grier, of Concord, held the evening services. Both meetings were largely attended.

Prof. Thomas Lingle delivered two addresses in Salisbury, Thursday, the afternoon address being before the Women's Clubs of that city, and that night at the Presbyterian church, on "Europe and the War."

Miss Van Patterson, of Portsmouth, Va., is visiting Miss Mary Young for a short stay.

Mrs. J. Lee Sloan left a few days ago to visit at the home of Mrs. G. H. Currie, in Clarkton. Later she will visit her cousin, Mrs. G. R. Dupuy, at Red Springs.

Mrs. Cliff, of Tallahassee, Fla., is visiting her cousin, Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has issued..."At home" cards for next Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m., the guest of honor being Mrs. Edward K. Graham and Mrs. Joseph Hyde Pratt, of Chapel Hill, N.C.

Miss Mary Young entertained delightfully last Thursday at a luncheon given in honor of her charming guest, Miss Van Patton, of Portsmouth, Va.

Mr. George Bernhardt, class of '16, was a visitor here Friday.

The features were long forward passes and broken field running. For the Varsity, the work of McKinnon, Keesler, Black, and Laird in the backfield, and in the line Crayton, Anderson, and McKay were the outstanding features. For the Scrubs, Fowle, Lawson, Hill, and Sommerville in the backfield, and R. Walker, Ansley, and Sayad in the line did good work.

First quarter: Varsity won the toss and chose to defend the north goal. Lawson kicked to 5-yard line, Black returning 40. On first attempt, Varsity penalized 15 yards for holding. McKinnon punted 25 yards, Lawson returned 5. Scrubs penalized 15 yards for holding. Scrubs fumbled, Black recovering. Forward pass, Keesler to Crayton, gained 5 yards for Varsity. Black made 7 more through line. Forward pass failed. Scrubs' ball. Sommerville punted 45 yards, Black returning 1. Laird thrown for a loss of 3 yards. Forward pass failed. Laird failed to gain over tackle. McKinnon kicked for field goal but failed. Sommerville punted out of bounds 19 yards. Varsity penalized 5 yards, offside. Keesler lost 1 around end. Forward pass failed. A second field goal was attempted from the 40-yard line but failed. Scrubs' ball on the 20-yard line. Fowle failed to gain through line. Scrubs fumbled, Austin recovering and ran 20 yards for the Varsity's first touchdown. McKinnon kicked goal. McKinnon kicked to 5-yard line, Hill received the ball and with one of the prettiest runs of the afternoon returned 45 yards. Fowle made 2 yards through the line, and on a second attempt made 3 more.

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., NOVEMBER 11, 1914. NO. 10

Play South Carolina Saturday in Columbia
"Gamecocks" Greatly Improved--- Former Stars Will be Back in Game.

On Friday at noon the Varsity Squad leaves for Columbia, S.C., to meet one of their oldest rivals, the "Gamecocks," of the University of South Carolina. The South Carolinians, so reports say, are laying for Davidson. During the past few weeks "Red" Edgerton and Costello have gotten their team together and they are making all kinds of boasts that they will overcome Davidson. They have at least four star players who have been ineligible in games previous to last Saturday. Three of them are "Speedy" Plexico, who is fast as lightning on end, and "Dutch" Passileage, who is a powerful player; Johnson is another. These players and one or two others they have been saving up for Davidson. Last Saturday they defeated the strong Wake Forest team 20 to 0. This shows that they have an unusually strong team, for on the Saturday previous the "Baptists" had defeated the powerful Roanoke College team by the score of 19 to 0. Roanoke had previously held V.P.I. to 7, and Washington and Lee beat V.P.I. only 7 to 6. The University of S.C. has a strong team, and it will be a hard fight to the finish, undoubtedly one of the hardest of the entire season. Past records of the two teams show that Davidson has come out with flying colors in eight out of ten games. The game Saturday will be watched with more interest than probably any to be played in the South on that day. It's not known at present whether McKinnon or Gloer will accompany the team or not, but hope has not yet been given up.

The Columbia State says of last Saturday's game: "The University eleven showed 100 percent improvement over its last game in Columbia. In fact, one would hardly recognize it as the same team. Both on offense and on defense the 'Gamecocks' showed great form. Stoney, Heywood, Plexico, Langston, and McMillan were the stars. Plexico scored two touchdowns, so did the renowned Dan Heywood."

The fact that the game will be on South Carolina's home grounds, where they have a strong bunch of substitutes and a good scrub team, gives Carolina more advantage.

Line-up:
Carolina. Position. Davidson.
Fant .......... le .......... Austin
McMillan ...... lt .......... Howell (Capt.)
J. Porter ...... lg .......... VanDevanter
Stoney ........ c .......... White
Hampton ...... rg .......... Grey or Gloer
Girardeau ..... rt .......... Anderson
Plexico ........ re .......... Crayton
Goggeshall .... qb .......... Keesler
Langston ...... lh .......... Walker, C.D.
Heyward ...... rh .......... Black or Laird
R. Going ...... fb .......... (McKinnon)

PHI ELECTS OFFICERS.

The Phi Society, at its regular Monday morning meeting of November 9, elected the following officers for the second term of the society year: President, U.S. Alexander; Vice-President, J.L. Payne; Secretary, G.L. Cooper; First Critic, F.L. Harkey; Second Critic, T.D. Sparrow; First Supervisor, I.P. Nisbet; Second Supervisor, T.W. Bullock. These officers-elect will be installed Monday morning, November 16.