The DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 7, 1914. VOL 2.

First Lyceum Number Saturday Night.
Weatherwax Brothers Quartet Will Entertain.

The coming of the first Lyceum number is an event always looked forward to with much pleasure by the students and the townspeople of Davidson. There is nothing carried on under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson which gives more universal pleasure than the Lyceum course. It is confidently expected that the Lyceum course for this year is going to be the best that has ever been given here. The course is made up of the very best numbers obtainable. Manager Carter is doing all that he can to make it the most attractive in the history of the Lyceum at Davidson. The first number will be given Saturday evening, October 10. For this date, Mr. Carter has succeeded in securing an excellent and very widely known quartet. The Weatherwax Brothers Quartet is a singing and instrumental quartet. It is composed of four brothers, each of whom has a fine voice, is a natural musician, and in addition to this has had years of experience. The result is a quartet which has made a wonderful hit everywhere it has played. After hearing the Weatherwax Brothers Quartet, Dr. Frank E. Hirsch, President of Charles City College, Iowa, had this to say:

"Having listened to the Weatherwax Quartet on various occasions and again yesterday evening in the concert at the opera house, I desire to express my appreciation of the high quality of their work. The points that appeared to me the most pleasing yesterday evening were the strength of the separate voices, and the agreeable harmony and blend as they joined in the quartet. The readings were well given and were enjoyable because they represented both the serious and humorous in proper variety."

This is one of the many splendid recommendations with which the Weatherwax Quartet comes to Davidson. The success of the Lyceum course depends largely upon the number of tickets sold so it is urged that every student and person in Davidson see this opening number of the course, and if he has not yet bought his ticket, come prepared to buy it next Saturday evening.

Town News of the Week.
Social and Personal Interesting Items.

The Civic Club will meet on Tuesday afternoon, October 13. Every member is urged to be present as some important business will be brought up before the club.

Mrs. Goode Cheatham, of Brevard, is spending a few weeks with her cousin, Miss Mamie Withers, in Richmond, Va., where he met Mrs. Lingle and the children.

Dr. J. T. W. Lingle spent the week-end in Charlotte.

A large number of the Alumni attended the game Saturday. Some of the old football stars who came to see their successors go up against the Tigers were G. A. Howell ('13), of Charlotte; Henry Gates ('13), Greensboro; Lump Richardson ('14), Greensboro; Frank Brady ('17), Statesville; and Dr. Hamilton McKay, of Charlotte. Some of the other Davidson men on the Hill were: Murry Mack, Rock Hill; Joe Choate ('16), Huntersville; J. C. Sullivan ('13), John Moore ('12), Winston-Salem; R. L. Simpson ('17), Charlotte; "Bum" Pharr ('14), Charlotte; A. I. Henderson ('16), Charlotte; McA. Carson; Lawrence Wilkinson; S. M. Wolfe, who is on his way to the Seminary in Louisville; L. H. Smith; S. A. Ewart; E. E. Campbell; Church Whitner, of Rock Hill; Gus Leazer; and Geo Howell.

Howard Shelton had an accident while riding horseback last week. He escaped, however, with only a few slight bruises.

Mrs. W. H. Hudson will leave for China on Monday, the 19th, from San Francisco on the P. M. S. S. "Mongolia," on the 24th.

Miss Julia Johnston is visiting Mrs. J. R. Morton, of Savannah, Ga., spent Wednesday and Thursday with her son, J. R. Morton, Jr., of the Soph class.

Frank Brown has broken his arm cranking his father's machine.

Dr. and Mrs. Harding spent Sunday in Charlotte.

Messrs. John Scott ('09), Bob Rickert ('10), K. Sherrill ('12), and Garland Sease came down from Statesville for the Clemson game last Saturday.

Weatherwax Brothers Saturday Night.

Davidson Held the Heavy Tigers.
Tennis Team Makes Clean Sweep at Erskine.
Efforts to Secure Some Big Meets Being Made by Manager.

A fine showing was made by the Davidson Tennis Team on the recent trip to Erskine College, South Carolina. Crawford and Johnson won both singles and doubles for(avadsen without the loss of a single set. The score in doubles was 6-4, 6-4, 6-4. In singles, Crawford defeated Galloway, 6-4, 6-3, 6-0. Johnson defeated Barron, 6-0, 6-3, 6-1. The matches were played under the Davidson team. Erskine, always a great tennis center, turned out in full force to root for their favorites. Plenty of "Pep" was let loose by the Erskine rooters, and Crawford and Johnson were the targets for many jibes and taunts, not often heard at a tennis match. By defeating Erskine, Davidson's tennis team clearly shows that they are ready to cope with the best college teams in the South, for Erskine makes a specialty of tennis, and her teams often cop championships in the various meets. Miss E. Adams, of Mt. Clair, N.J., the championships in it. Recognizing that Davidson's prospects, Williams is making earnest efforts to secure some big meets to be held "on the Hill." If the Student Body will back their tennis team this year, they may expect to see Davidson play South Carolina, Trinity, North Carolina, etc. The team is counting on going to Atlanta in the Spring to take part in the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament.

Dr. J. M. Douglass went down to Charlotte Monday morning.

Buy Your NO 5

Clemson Powerless Before Red and Black. Fetzer’s Team Holds “Tigers” to Scoreless Tie.

In one of the hardest contested games ever witnessed on the Davidson gridiron, the “Red and Black Machine,” with a great revival of the old-time Davidson fighting spirit, held the mighty Clemson “Tigers” last Saturday to a nothing to nothing tie. The result is considered and conceded by Clemson supporters to be a great victory for Davidson, because Clemson has 3 to 1 odds on the Presbyterians in putting out a team. With a student body of almost 1000, that triples the number at Davidson, Coach “Bob” Williams had a squad of twice as many to pick a team from as did Fetzer. But against such odds, and though outweighed about fifteen pounds per man, Fetzer and Harris' team, fighting like demons, after the first four minutes, simply played “rings” around the Tigers, proving that they had received coaching which was far superior to that of Clemson.

Briefly in detail, the game went as follows: McKinnon kicked off and the ball was returned to the 30-yard line. Clemson then started down the field with a whirlwind rush, and it seemed as though nothing could stop them from making a touchdown. The ball was carried within five feet of the goal line, but on the first buck, the Davidson line was impregnable. On the next, a fumble was made, and when the human mass had been untangled, Captain Howell was on the bottom with the pigskin safely in his possession. He was the hero of the day, and that instant marked the climax, or turning point in the game. Up to that moment, Clemson had outplayed the lighter Red and Blacks, but from that time on, the Electrics came back with new life and far outclassed the Tigers.

The break was even in the second and third quarters. The half ended with the ball about the middle of the field. In the third quarter, the Red and Blacks came back with grim determination. They fought Clemson to a standstill. When the fourth began, the Tigers showed the effect of the strain. New men were constantly being sent into their line. It was in this quarter that the Davidson team showed its real fight and superiority over Clemson. Previous to this time, both teams had tried for field goals and failed. Now, for Davidson, McKinnon, Walker, and Black time after time made consistent gains, skirting the Tigers’ ends, and tearing through the line. By this brilliant attack, they brought the ball from the 20-yard line to Clemson's 4-yard line. With a touchdown in sight, the ball was lost on fourth down. Clemson kicked out and the ball was returned to the 20-yard line. McKinnon booted a beautiful place kick from a difficult angle, and missed only by two feet. Clemson kicked again. Keesler returned for a long gain to near the goal line, and when the whistle blew, Davidson could have scored with a few more seconds to play. In this quarter, Clemson came near making a touchdown on a forward pass, but with an open field before him, the Tiger end fumbled. Austin received several forward passes for Davidson in fine style, one time for a gain of fifteen yards. The pass was used to great advantage by the Davidson team, while the Tigers missed all their chances. The entire backfield, and in the line (Continued on page 4)

Lyceum Ticket.