i) The DAVIDSONIAN. April 7, 1915

INTERESTING Y. M. C. A. MEETING LAST THURSDAY.

The third of the series of "Life Work" addresses, “Business as a Life Work,” was presented at the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday evening by J. P. Williams and Mr. F. L. Jackson in an interesting way. The former showed that pleasure, fascination, and independence were three things that were associated with the life of a systematic business man. Mr. Jackson said, by way of introduction, that God never makes a mistake with His creative rights. He gave the qualities of a successful business man as honesty, the bed-rock principle; an analytical mind; open-mindedness; tact, and humor, and also brought out the beautiful thought that God is to be the Great Accountant at the end of earthly life; that the individual is charged with money, intellect, health, capacity for morals, and a capacity for increasing these God-given essentials. His closing challenge was: “What have we on the credit side?”

ALUMNI CATALOGUE.

An Alumni Catalogue is to be issued in the near future, which will be a catalogue of every man that has ever attended Davidson College, and will contain the address of the student at the time that he entered college, the number of years that he attended college, his present occupation and his present address. It is hoped that this catalogue can be gotten out by the first of June, as quite a few men are at work on it now. It will be of use on the office file for reference and will be of general interest to all of the former and present students.

DOINGS OF CHESS CLUB.

The Davidson Chess Club, composed of twelve members, is now playing the Spring tournament. Chess is a new game among Davidson students, although it was started by the Egyptians and has been played by the English for centuries. The following men, R. Howard, R. W. Porter, R. W. Morrison, S. T. Henderson, and R. A. Halliburton, have won from W. E. Douglas, P. H. Knox, U. S. Alexander, W. B. Knox, and W. P. Keesler, respectively. The club extends an invitation to all students who desire to join. If you are interested, see the president, R. A. Halliburton.

RICHARDS BEGINS CANVASS FOR COLLEGE

Last Sunday Dr. Richards filled his pulpit for the last time prior to a four months’ leave of absence which has been granted him in order that he may make a canvass for funds to be used in the erection of a new gymnasium for the college. For the first two weeks of this time he will remain here, corresponding with the various alumni and old classes in regard to the matter. The remainder of the time will be devoted to visits to different sections of the country in the interest of this fund.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATE.

EDITORIAL.

A GOAL.

Filled with a determination to at least equal the standards set high by the retiring Staff, the new partners in “The Davidsonian” begin with this issue the pleasant duty of recording the events of “Davidson.” The Editorial Board, the Staff, and the Reporters, all joined together by a common purpose, have before them the idea of continuing to make the paper a true representative of the Alumni, Student Body, and town. Among college newspapers “The Davidsonian” holds the rather unique position of being financially supported and controlled by no special college organization, such as the Athletic Association, or societies. It is distinctly an enterprise of the whole student body. But this is only made possible by the full support of all those interested in the college. It has been a source of ever-increasing wonder to note the loyal support all have so far given, and we hope that this interest, fostered by larger plans for the college, shall constantly increase. To waive all the news, in an impartial and unprejudiced way: a hearty and ever-ready support for the things which will build on.and a vigorous condemnation of the things which will tear down: a better and a more truly representative paper each week—with these things before us, we make our initial bow.

LYCEUM OF SEASON TO BE HERE SATURDAY DR. LAST

The Fresh-Soph Debate, to be held April 12, in the Phi society halls, will be on the subject, “Resolved, That the United States should increase its Army and Navy.” Each speaker will be given about twelve minutes. Those entering the debate are: Eu. S. L. Hunter, T. R. and J. R. Woods, W. L. Douglas, H. B. Fraser, Geo. C. Bellingrath, Win. McIntosh, T. F. Williams; Phi, W. H. Neal, C. E. Rankin, G. McDonald, I. A. Thames, W. C. Cumming, W. B. Knox, and R. H. Ratchford.

Next Saturday evening, April 10, the last number of the Lyceum Course will be given in Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock. Manager Patrick has succeeded in booking an engagement with Mrs. William Calvin Chilton, of the Alkahest Lyceum System. Mrs. Chilton is well known throughout the country as a splendid monodramatist. She is said to be one of the most successful readers of the Alkahest System. She handles with equal skill classical selections, dialects, and humorous monologues. Her rendition of the well-known play, “Polly of the Circus,” is said to be one of her best. She takes such plays and arranges them into a monodramatic recital especially suited for her character representations. This is the last attraction of the season, and the management has taken pains to see that it will be a good one.

E. P. Childs ('18) visited his home in Asheville last week.

Bill Osteen, our last year's star pitcher, is now trying out for the Rocky Mount team in the Virginia league. According to all reports, Bill is making a fine showing.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 45.

FOR THAT “CONKLIN” Self-filling Fountain Pen see H. R. Dishough, 19 Rumple.

LOST—A vest. Finder return to T. Evirt, N. Chambers and receive reward.

GERMAN CLUB PLANS.

At a called meeting in chapel on last Friday morning, the Davidson College German Club elected Mr. James H. Carson and Mr. Jeffry D. Smith managers to have charge of the Commencement dance. The club decided to hold the dance this year on the Tuesday night after Commencement in Charlotte, either at a Country Club or at the Selwyn Hotel. The managers have decided to fix the admission at $3.00, which is very reasonable for an affair of this kind. It will be necessary for the managers to know how many men they can rely on in order to be able to figure on the expenses. All men who wish to join the German Club can hand their names either to Mr. Smith or Mr. Carson. This affair has been an annual one for the last twenty years, and the club hopes that this one can be made the best of them all.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. Howland, 26 R.

W. C. E. Herrick ('12) is now agency cashier for the Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Co., at Jacksonville, Fla.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for

STRENGTH SECURITY SERVICE

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY

J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C. W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty Thorough Instruction WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly

Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY,--- Remember We always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits and Candy Always Fresh - Always the best Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED

L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.