The DAVIDSONIAN. September 29, 1915

STATE CONFERENCE

(Concluded from page 1)

This game, and Reese’s scoring of 10 out of a possible 12 fouls, was the sensation of the afternoon. The team was composed of the following men: Forwards, Carson and Hoyt (Captain); guards, Reese and Patton; center, Dumas; subs, McCaskill and Somerville.

Wake Forest challenged Davidson to a tennis match, two out of three sets in doubles to decide the winner. T. J. Mitchell and M. S. Kennedy defended the Red and Black and won the first two sets, 6-4, and 6-3. They surprised the conference by their smashing serves and easy returns. Wake Forest was the favorite, but stood absolutely no chance of winning from the very first serve.

THE RECEPTION

Friday afternoon at 4:30 p.m., the Guilford girls entertained the delegates at a lawn party in front of Founders’ Hall. Decorations of college pennants added much to the air of festivity, and a punch bowl presided over by the “Quaker Maids” proved exceedingly popular. Introductions were made through novel autograph books, in which the boys and girls exchanged signatures as souvenirs. The hospitality of the Y. W. C. A. and the charm of its members made a lasting impression on the delegates. Too much cannot be said in appreciation of the splendid reception and entertainment that was accorded the delegates by the Guilford students, faculty, and Dr. Newlin, the president. Everything possible was done for their comfort and pleasure, and especial thanks are due to Dr. Newlin, Miss Osborne, the matron, and Mr. Harrell Budd, president of the Guilford Y. M. C. A.

The conference as a whole was one of the most successful yet held, both from the standpoint of work accomplished and pleasure enjoyed. The success of the conference was assured through the services of Mr. E. G. Wilson, Mr. Hoke Ramsour, Dr. W. D. Weatherford, Dr. W. A. Harper, Mr. R. W. Barnett, Mr. T. C. Boushall, Mr. J. J. King, Dr. W. L. Poteat, and Dr. N. L. Anderson.

ALUMNI CATALOG

Miss Hattie Thompson, who has won the respect and esteem of the whole student body by her faithfulness as a voluntary organist at all church services, has begun work on an Alumni Catalog which will be of interest to all students. This catalog is to include not only the students that have graduated from Davidson and are in the strictest sense alumni, but it is to include the thousands of men who have matriculated here in the past and have pursued their studies here for a year or more. The students will be taken up in order of their classes, beginning with the founding of the college and ending with the classes now on the campus. It is to give not only the addresses and present occupations of all the former students, but will state, as far as possible, what each of our alumni has accomplished since leaving college walls. The work necessary for the completion of this catalog will of necessity be very laborious, and we wish Miss Thompson success as she begins her extensive research. When completed, the catalog is to be published in book form.

Henry B. Culbrith (1919) was suddenly called home on Saturday, September 18, on account of the death of his father. The sympathy of the entire student body is extended in his sad bereavement.

Judge Shackleford, a member of the Supreme Court of Florida, came over from Charlotte in a machine last week to see the college, among whose alumni he has several intimate friends.

SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED FOR TENNIS TOURNAMENT

Great interest is being shown in the annual tennis tournament beginning Friday. About thirty-five names for doubles, and about the same number for singles, have been submitted to the committee, and the drawing to determine who will be opponents in the matches will be held shortly. The doubles will begin Friday afternoon, October 1, and will probably be finished by Monday afternoon. The singles will then be played. Owing to the number of entries, it will take a slightly longer time to play these; nevertheless, it is expected that the finals in theSingles will be played the following Monday, October 11. This tournament is open to everyone wishing to compete, the only charge being the cost of the balls played with. As yet, Manager Finley has not secured any intercollegiate games, but he is expecting to make arrangements soon. The list of entries is as follows:

Doubles — Saunders and Alford; Woods, C., and Hudson, G.; Woods, J. B., and Price; Finley and Finley; Reese and Hawkins; McKee and Thomas; Hampton and Perry; Raddey and Richardson; Shaw, H., and Lott; Keesler and Brown, C. B.; Kennedy and Barnett; Pickens and Moore; Woods, J. R., and Worth, C.; Miller and Watt; Cunningham and Frazier.

Singles — Reese, Hawkins, Keesler, W. P., Brown, C. B., Saunders, Woods, C., Thomas, Price, McKee, Finley, T., Finley, R., Richardson, Hampton, Shaw, H., Perry, Lott, Woods, J. R., Worth, C., Frazier, Miller, Cunningham, Watt, Pickens, Barnett, Moore.

TOWN ITEMS.

Mrs. F. G. Robinson, of Wilmington, was the guest of Mrs. W. J. Martin for the weekend.

Mrs. Irene Foreman spent the weekend with Mrs. Martin.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Jackson last Friday. Dr. Lingle read a paper on “The Resources of Russia.”

Dr. Martin attended the meeting of Asheville Presbytery at Montreat last week.

Mrs. Dubois, of Gallatin, Tex., was on the Hill last week visiting her son, H. D. Williamson.

Mr. and Mrs. Abernathy, of Lincolnton, spent a few days here last week with their son, J. A. Abernathy.

Mrs. McDowell, of Morganton, is visiting her cousin, Mrs. A. M. Young.

Miss Ellenwood is having a garage built in the rear of her home on Main Street.

Mrs. W. D. Vinson returned from Montreat last week.

Miss Newland, of Morganton, visited at Mrs. Young’s last week.

Marshall Gaunt left last week for the Citadel, where he will be a student this year.

The regular meeting of the Civic League will be held on the second Tuesday of each month.

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle began moving into their new home on Monday. The house, on Concord Avenue, is indeed beautiful, with all modern conveniences and latest improvements.

Mr. and Mrs. Love, of Quincy, Fla., spent a day here last week while entering their son in the Freshman class.

Jetton Drug Co. The Rexall Store invites you to inspect their complete line of Stationery, Fountain Pens, Toilet Articles, Etc. Goodrich Tennis Balls. We are always glad to see you. Prescriptions a Specialty.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc. CAKES, CANDIES, and EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT. Visit OUR HIGH-GRADE GROCERY STORE.

L. A. ELLIOTT BAT AT HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C. — THE HOTEL HUFFINE, Greensboro, N. C. Flyless Restaurant. HOTEL YADKIN, Salisbury, N.C. HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C. WRIGHT'S HOTEL, Raleigh, N. C. HOTEL LEELAND, Danville, Va. TORRENCE & HELPER Also Auto Service J. P. SANDERS. Visit Jetton’s for TOBACCO, CANDY, and REAL SPORT DEMANDS SPALDING QUALITY. No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready. Our Fall and Winter Catalogue shows STUDENT SUPPLIES, pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy. We appreciate your trade.

A. G. Spalding & Bros. 74 N. BROAD STREET ATLANTA, GA.

The COMMISSARY —$$$— Give your Shoe Repair Work to JOHNSON & MEEKS Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP. RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop. Next door to Post Office.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH) Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00 COMMERCIAL BANKING Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.