The DAVIDSONIAN, May 29, 1915

“QUIPS AND CRANKS.”

The carping critics and Jeramaic mourners who were bewailing the delay in the arrival of the 1915 Annual found themselves
utterly silenced when “Quips and Cranks” appeared on the scene last Thursday. For nine months, the editorial, art, and business
staff have been toiling earnestly over this annual production, and though not a secret was given out, yet the mystery
and anticipation on the faces of those who knew led the campus to expect great things in the end. That
there were none disappointed, and that everyone was delighted, was evidenced by the praise heard on every hand as soon
as the Annuals were given out.

The volume of nearly two hundred pages is bound in beautiful brown leather. Inside, the artistic form and arrangement is
as perfect as is ever seen. The Annual opens with a dedication to Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of the
Board of Trustees, “one of the staunchest friends of the college.” The Senior section which follows stands out from the
rest of the book by reason of its individual style of paper and photographs. Not only are the Seniors’ features
shown, but also their characteristics and peculiarities by word and cartoon. The lower classes come next, and the pictures of
the various athletic teams, fraternities, clubs, and organizations follow in order. Interspersed between all these are cartoons, wit, prose, and
poetry. Every phase of college life, every light and shadow, the funny and the grave, all have their place.

Throughout the volume, the drawing and cartoon work of Minter and Good stand out in excellence. The photographs and group
pictures are splendidly clear and well arranged. These, of course, are intensely interesting to not only every student, but also
the friends of Davidson, and especially to “the girl, to whom the Annual brags for you,” as the editor says.
The prose part has been said by many, including alumni who visited Davidson Commencement, to be the best of any
Annual that Davidson has ever sent out. The calendar, written as the diary of a green but wide-awake Freshman, is
a rare compendium of the fun of a whole year, and roaringly humorous all through. “Our Little Ones” consists of
twenty short letters in “Christian Observer” style, but Mark Twain spirit, from “our little folks of the campus,” Willie Winn,
Pookie Austin, Albert Wood, Mary Crisp, Laata Law, and others. “Davidson College” comes on the heels of this, a ten-page
parody on the catalogue, describing the various buildings and scenes of Davidson and various distinguished personages connected with them, in
hardly complimentary, but rich and ridiculous style.

Space forbids a mention of more of the excellent features. Too much praise cannot be given to the Editor-in-Chief, Elwaine,
and his helpers, and to the Business Manager, J. E. Faw, who despite the hard year and his other strenuous
duties, piloted successfully the all-important business side.

MR. JACKSON WILL SPEND SUMMER IN DAVIDSON

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Bursar of Davidson, is planning to remain at Davidson during the summer. He will direct repair
work that will be done, keep in touch with prospective students, and work in his office. Mr. Jackson's splendid work
for the college was mentioned by Dr. Lingle on Commencement Day. Not in a conspicuous manner, but slowly and surely
he is making changes for good on the campus and placing the business of the college upon a strong foundation.
By his boyish sympathies, and genial, Christian personality, Mr. Jackson has won himself a host of friends among students and
townspeople. His work is not as often recognized as that of others but it is none the less appreciated and
valued by those who know.

Come all we near
And drop a tear
For our departed Pair.
—Payne's “Eulogy.”

VISITING RELATIVES AND LADIES

One of the great features of a Commencement is the presence of a large number of friends and relatives, especially
of certain friends. This Commencement has not differed from others in this respect, as the following roll of visitors testifies:
Mr. William Jones, Yorkville, S. C.; Mrs. C. G. Vardell, Misses Vardell, Red Springs, N. C.; Miss Johnson Sims, Concord,
N. C.; Dr. M. Carson, Montreat, N. C.; Mrs. C. H. L. Smith, Lexington, Va.; Miss Mary Claire Johnson, Atlanta,
Ga.; Lucile Shaw, Fountain Inn, S. C.; Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Clark and Miss Rosa- beth Easley, Clarkesville, Va.;
Mrs. Frank Neal, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. and Mrs. B. F. Wilson, Harrisonburg, Va.; Mrs. J. M. Blain, Kashing, China;
Rev. F. H. Wardlaw, Charlotte, N. C.; Prof. L. P. Gilkeson, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Emma Woods, Chester, S. C.;
Miss Virginia Wiggins, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. M. McDonald, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Jane Barron, Columbia, S. C.;
Miss Jane Fisher, Columbia, S. C.; Miss Carrie Hielia, Mt. Pleasant, N. C.; Miss Janie Meek, Little Rock, Ark.; Miss
Bonnie Mauney, Kings Mountain, N. C.; Miss Laura Wood, Charlottesville, Va.; Miss Irene Foreman, Charlotte, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs.
P. Gilkeson, Charlotte, N. C.

LIBRARY RECEIVES HISTORIC TEXT-BOOK

A recent contribution made to the Library by Prof. J. L. Douglas, which should be of interest to all Davidson
students, is an algebra by Maj. D. H. Hill, who was professor of mathematics and civil engineering at Davidson from
1854 to 1859. This book, “Elements of Algebra,” was regarded highly by most teachers of that period. It was once
referred to by James G. Blaine during one of his famous debates in the Senate. A curious thing about this
book is that throughout it exhibits many examples of strong sectional feeling, a feature very startling in view of the
extremely impersonal nature of mathematics. Stonewall Jackson, himself a professor before the Civil War, refers to the book in very
high terms. He says: “I regard it as superior to any other work with which I am acquainted in the
same branch of science.” That the great Stonewall Jackson should have spoken of it in such a manner is proof
sufficient of its merit. Beside this book, Major Hill was the author of several others, most of which were on
religious subjects. Among these were “The Sermon on the Mount” and “The Crucifixion of Christ.”

Send in your subscription for THE DAVIDSONIAN.James N. Johnson, Mr. Eugene Johnson, Miss Dr. and Mrs. H. L. Shaw and
Miss Mond Clark, Statesville, N. C.; Miss Lydia Sherard, Miss Charlotte Harrall, Annie Barr, Greenville, S. C.; Miss Martha Butt;
Mrs. O'Neal, Greenville, S. C.; Miss Katherine Worth, Miss Frances Worth; Mrs. C. A. Misenheimer, Charlotte, N. C.; Mr. R.
A. Dunn, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Cora Sloan, State Normal, Greensboro; Miss Mary Andrews, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. Overman, Miss
Bonnie Shelton, Miss A. Shelton, Miss Lolabelle Snodgrass, Crossville, Tenn.; Dr. C.; Mrs. Miss Mrs. R. H. Lafferty, Charlotte, N.
C.; Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Scarborough, Sumter, S. C.; Dr. E. R. Leyburn, Durham, N. C.; Miss Elma Crabtree,
Goldsboro, N. C.; Miss Hollister, Newbern, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Allison, Concord, N. C.; Mr. C. G.
Rowland, Sumter, S. C.; Miss Dora Heriot, Oswego, S. C.; Miss Josie Jewett, Portsmouth, Va.; Miss Mattie C. Packard, Baltimore,
Md.; Miss Ruth Barry, Seneca, S. C.; Mr. and Mrs. G. Gignilliat, Seneca, S. C.; Mr. and Mrs. Will Thompson;
Miss Fannie Query, Concord, N. C.; Miss Audrey Farrior, Rose Hill, N. C.

1853 to 1859. This book, “Elements W. MAY MAGAZINE APPEARS. The last number of The Davidson College Magazine for the
year appeared on the 15th. On the whole, it is a very creditable issue and contains some good articles. Of
the three pieces of poetry, “Just A-wearyin’ for You,” a bit of romantic verse written in semi-James Whitcomb Riley style,
is probably the best. “Life” has a strong and hopeful swing. “A Tropical Romance” opens the prose list. “The Romantic
Imagination,” which the writer believes himself cursed with, makes him hear the ardent love-making of two savages as he glides
along the Malampoosa in his canoe. He is startled to find after a long reverie that the chattering comes from
two chimpanzees. The same writer follows with an interesting and delightfully written article, “A France of Enthusiasm,” in which he
pictures the French war spirit as he saw it last summer. Too much praise cannot be given to G. W.
Gignilliat for his splendid contributions to the Magazine this year. “John Charles McNeill,” the other essay of the issue, is
thoughtful and well-phrased. “Love and Duty” is a story centering around the missionary ideals of two young lovers. “Laleila” is
an Indian story simply and interestingly told. The Magazine is closed with a strong editorial by the editor, U. S.
Alexander, on “The Past and the Future.” The Magazine needs and deserves wider and heartier support in the student body.
If this is assured, The Davidson Magazine will rank among the best in the South next year.

SCHOLARSHIP SOCIETY HAS BEEN ORGANIZED

In order to promote scholarship more at Davidson, a scholarship society, known as the Mimir Society, has been organized. Election
to membership in this society is based on scholarship. The charter members are U. S. Alexander, G. W. Gignilliat, Jr.,
Norman Johnson, W. A. McIlwaine, H. B. Overcash, and F. W. Price, of the graduating class, and C. B. Bailey,
of the M.A. students. Of the faculty, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. W. J. Martin, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle
have been elected to membership. I. M. McBryde, W. R. McNeill, and H. Smith, of the Junior class, have been
elected to membership. It is hoped that in the near future this society will become affiliated with a national scholarship
organization of high standing. Particulars about requirements for membership will be announced early next year.

PUNCTUALITY ROLL FOR THE YEAR 1914-15

(Five absences or less)

Seniors: G. W. Gignilliat, 0; M. M. Knox, 0; I. G. Stewart, 5.
Juniors: F. M. Bain, 2; L. A. Bain, 1; W. A. Johnson, 1; P. H. Knox, 1; A. McDonald, 4;
E. J. McIntire, 1; D. McLeod, 2; Harlee Morrison, 5; W. Ormand, 5.
Sophomores: A. R. Craig, 5; J. W. Mann, 0; J. R. Morton, Jr., 2; Guy Walker, 5; J. T. Williams,
0; D. McKeithen, 3.
Freshmen: G. C. Bellingrath, 5; J. G. Conoly, 0; G. D. Morton, 5; T. N. Morton, 0; J. A. Thames,
3.

Those who have attended every college duty are: Messrs. G. W. Gignilliat, L. A. Bain, M. M. Knox, J. W.
Mann, J. T. Williams, J. G. Conoly, T. N. Morton.

GRYPHON BANQUET

The second annual banquet of the Order of Gryphon was held at Mrs. Smith's on last Monday evening. The dining
room and table were beautifully decorated in gold and black, the colors of the order, and covers were laid for
forty guests. Ed. Carter presided as toastmaster of the occasion and the following responses were made: “Gryphon,” Prof. J. M.
McConnell; “We're here because you're here,” Stuart Gilchrist; “War with Turkey a la Gryphon,” Earle Rowland; and “What For,” Enoch
Faw.

DR. MARVIN ELECTED TO PHI BETA KAPPA

It will be of interest to all Davidson men to learn that at its last meeting the chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa Scholarship Fraternity at the University of Virginia elected Dr. W. J. Martin to membership. Mr. W. W. Wood,
who comes here next year, is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Chess Club officers for the coming year are: S. I. Henderson, President; E. H. Hamilton, Vice President; W. L. Douglass,
Secretary and Treasurer. The Chess Club has been only lately organized, but is already attracting wide interest. Plans for next
year have been discussed and Fall and Spring tournaments are planned for.

The following men have been elected to the Student Council for next year: Seniors, E. H. Smith, W. D. Sparrow,
N. P. Farrior, J. M. McBryde, Wm. Hollister; Juniors, A. B. Reese, E. P. Nisbet, P. B. Price; Sophomores, L.
A. Chambliss, I. R. Woods.

Dress Your Ankles WELL

Interwoven’s the socks that wear well at every wear point--toe, sole, heel, and ankle. Buy the thin sock that is
hole-proof.

M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Dealers in General Merchandise

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.
