4 DEBATING TEAMS BEGIN WORK

The two debating teams have begun active preparation for the inter-collegiate contests which are scheduled to take place on Easter Monday. All of the literature in the library which bears upon the two queries has been transmitted by the members of the two teams to their respective headquarters, and from now until the time that the contests are held, April 5, the four debaters are going to make a united effort to land a victory for Davidson in both of the forensic battles. This is the first time that Davidson has ever debated either Emory or Clemson, and hence there is no means of comparing the relative strength of Davidson's teams with that of their opponents. Suffice it to say, however, that Davidson is taking nothing for granted, and no stone will be left unturned in the way of preparation.

MEETING OF THE BLUE PENCIL CLUB

At the regular meeting of the Blue Pencil Club, held a few days ago, many new plans and ideas for the club were discussed. It is expected that, together with other matters, the questions relative to the different publications will be gone over, and it will act as a clearinghouse for some of these plans, as all of the different publications are represented. The special subject for discussion was the work of Kipling, and Kipling as a man. Sandwiches and other things of similar nature were served, forming a most important part of the evening's program.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ATTEND CONVENTION

The campus was deserted on Wednesday and the town also. Practically the whole student body was in Charlotte attending the sessions that day of the Laymen’s Convention. A large number returned that night on the special train at 1 o'clock. Others who had gone the first part of the week and many who had left the college Wednesday morning stayed through the rest of the convention. The student body assembled at the Second Presbyterian Church on Wednesday morning and marched to the Convention hall in a body, sitting in a reserved section of the balcony. College work was not successfully resumed till Saturday. But every man who attended felt that he had received great help and inspiration from the great meetings of the Convention and the wonderful addresses of Mott, Speer, and others.

L. H. SMITH PRESIDENT OF THE EASLEY BANK

Loyd H. Smith, class of ‘12, was recently elected President of the Easley Loan & Trust Co., of Easley, S. C., filling the vacancy caused by the recent death of his father. This is quite an honor to be conferred upon such a young man, but with the excellent qualities which he has heretofore exhibited, his friends are assured of his continued success. While in college Mr. Smith was President of the Student Body and a member of the debating team.

SPRING GOLF TOURNAMENT

Arrangements are now being made for the Spring golf tournament that was postponed on account of recent bad weather. Ten qualifying rounds will be played by each competitor in order to determine the handicap. The membership of the club has increased considerably this spring, and there will be many participants for the championship. Three new holes are being laid off on the links, which will add greatly to the appearance, and will also leave two holes for beginners to practice on. The membership fee for the spring term will be $3.00.

SADLER WINS IN STATE PEACE CONTEST

The State Peace Contest was held in Raleigh last Friday. There were representatives from nine colleges of the State. Davidson was represented by Norman Johnson. The contest started at 8 o'clock Friday night, at Meredith College, where there was present an audience of about five hundred people. The Davidson representative had the misfortune and handicap of drawing the place of first speaker, while there was great disturbance caused by people coming in. The judges were residents of Raleigh. After much deliberation they gave first place to Sadler, of Atlantic Christian College, and second to the representative of Wake Forest. “'Tis not failure not to win, but not to try.”

RECENT VISITORS ON “THE HILL”

Mrs. J. B. Dishong was a visitor at Davidson Saturday. Mrs. Dishong is the mother of H. Dishong, of the Freshman class.

Mr. R. C. Jones, of Chattanooga, returned from...Charlotte with his son “Bob” Jones to spend a short while in Davidson.

* * *

Messrs. Jim Williams, Charles Armstrong, Ashby Brooks, and Joe Hogshead, from old Bethel church, in “the Valley of Virginia,” were visitors at the college Friday morning. These gentlemen had been attending the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte and came up to Davidson to see the college. Two of Mrs. J. I. McCloy was on the Hill Saturday, visiting her son, D. E. McCloy, of the Freshman class.

ANNUAL NEARING COMPLETION

Judging from the optimistic statement of the Editor-in-chief that he can almost see daylight ahead, the Annual must indeed be nearing completion. The arrangement of all its details has been finally decided on and the dummy has been returned to the publishers. Practically all of the art work has been inspected by the faculty, and a good part of it has been sent off. The art staff, however, has had an unusually difficult task this year, and there is a little work yet to come in. The greater part of the written articles have been reviewed by the faculty and sent to the press. It is confidently expected by the editor that the last of the Annual will have been sent off by Saturday. In the meanwhile “Mac” and “Enoch” are rapidly recovering from their arduous duties while basking in the sunny smiles of fair college maidens.

Into the dining room of Stonewall Hotel bustled the Man From the City, the Man of Business, “Shorty” Williams. Three friends were with him, and obediently they waited for a word of experience and wisdom from him as to the best method of getting a good supper. “Each man order him one dish, and we will have a plenty of four things for all of us,” said the Man of Business, and there was instant and happy acquiescence. “Shorty” ordered a meat, another potatoes, and another a dish of peas. The waiter hurried the order and the four friends joyously “fell to.” But alas, the bill came, too. “Shorty” gazed. Seventy-five cents for his dish of meat. Friend One gazed. Seventy-five cents for potatoes. Friend Two likewise. Seventy-five cents for a little plate of green peas. “American plan,” and the waiter bowed away. “A dish of peas when I could have gotten a whole supper for the same price,” came a groan. The Man of Business has been singularly quiet lately.

* * *

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mathew Pressing Club
Alexander & Mayberry, Props.

* * *

Pure Drugs
Soda, Cigars, and Tobaccos, Candy, Toilet Preparations
Prescriptions Our Specialty
WELCOME
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

* * *

Visit the New Barber Shop
E. R. JENKS

* * *

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL for FIRE INSURANCE

* * *

For Her
She will appreciate a box of our fresh HUYLER’S CHOCOLATES

For Yourself
You will find our Fountain Drinks, Tobaccos, Toilet Preparations, suited to the most discriminating customer.
Jetton Drug Co.
Phone 7

* * *

BEALL & FRAZER
Representing Danville Steam Laundry

* * *

That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite Summer sport.
Equipment that's just a little bit better.
Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.
Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field
Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

* * *

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

* * *

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

* * *

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements

* * *

Do You Want the Best 5c Cigar in town? If so, try the TURABO. A Cigar Without an Equal
The Davidson Drug Company