2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
J. D. Patrick......... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ STAFF:
W. H. Neal
R. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of news and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year.

EDITORIAL.

THE OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFETIME.

We have often had the privilege of having one or two earnest and inspiring Christian leaders for a week or
ten days on the Hill, bringing us a message. But the opportunity which the Davidson student body will face next
week is one which very few student bodies ever have, and one which not many of us will have in
the same way again. For we are young men, and the challenge of the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte next week
will come to us as it never will later, when we are older and settled in our professions.

Those who hear John R. Mott on Tuesday night will hear a man who is recognized as the world’s greatest
Christian statesman and who is considered by Woodrow Wilson and others to be the greatest single personality of his age.
He is the founder and general secretary of the World’s Christian Student Federation, and more than any other man of
his age has had direct and vital contact with student life and activities in every part of the world. He
has traveled around the world three times speaking to students in every land. He is intimately acquainted with student life
and work and always has a message for the college man. At the Convention he will speak on “The Message
of the Hour.” Dr. Mott has recently returned from Europe, where with special letters from the President, he was passed
through the lines and held conferences with the Christian leaders in Berlin, Paris, London and other centers. He has a
message, we are told, from these leaders to the Christian manhood of America. Let us hear it.

Robert E. Speer is another of the master spirits of the religious world who will speak at the Convention. He
is one of the powerful and effective speakers to college men in America. He is a Princeton man, graduated from
there with honors second only to those of Aaron Burr, and with an enviable athletic record. His addresses are powerful
messages that grip the hearts of men.

Then there is W. T. Ellis, the “journalist of missions;” Dr. Campbell White, the General Secretary of the Laymen's Movement,
a man of spiritual force and energy, and our own friends, Dr. Ogden and Dr. Dobyns. But what shall we
more say? For time would fail us to tell of the other great leaders at the Convention. We owe it
to ourselves, as the future men and laymen of our Church, and to our college, which needs the inspiration of
this Convention to attend as many of its meetings as we are able. The faculty has opened the way; let
us not fail in this opportunity of a lifetime.

The DAVIDSONIAN.
February 10, 1915

WHAT DO WE READ?

Mr. George Brett, an experienced publisher, is the writer of an article in the Atlantic Monthly for November, entitled “The
Reading of Books Nowadays.” Out of a full and long experience, Mr. Brett calls attention to the present-day decadence in
book-reading. Publishing houses which have flourished for twenty years and more, have been brought to the verge of bankruptcy because
of the failure to sell their standard books. The decadence has even reached current literature, and many magazines formerly much
read have been suspended or are losing in their circulation.

Mr. Brett traces three causes for this decadence. Since 1870, interest has largely been shifted from higher subjects pertaining to
the knowledge of God and the study of man, and directed toward physical and natural science, laboratory and invention work.
The book is becoming more largely a reference. The play element in education, object lessons of pictures, and the constant
introduction of features to please and attract, is, secondly, independence of the reading mind, and has belittled power of reflection
and thought. A third influence is the superabundance nowadays of light fiction. The craze for excitement which has called loudly
for the theatre,the movies, the dance, has also demanded the light and superficial novel. In addition to these influences, there
is the business strain and mad rush of our times. The result is that we are becoming a non-reading people,
or rather a people of superficial, careless and unthinking readers. Reading maketh a full man; conversation a ready man; and
writing an accurate man. But readiness and accuracy can be of little service to the empty man, so a man’s
full equipment in sound and good literature is at the foundation of real success. Only a serious, vital and more
profound view of life than we have in this careless and amusement-loving time can bring us back to our point
of departure, the reading and appreciation of the best literature. If you read one book, you sacrifice reading another. And
how much better to store our treasure-house with the reading of the books that are immortal and the literature of
undying power! In college are formed the habits of a lifetime. The passing novel, the comic page, and the sporting
sheet have their places, but if the college student of today does not learn to think as well as to
read, to enjoy the Atlantic Monthly as well as “Life,” Scott and Dickens and the real thinking modern writers as
much as George Barr McCutcheon, there is little hope of a change for the better in the American people as
a whole, and we are on the road to far worse decadence. But let us hope that the pendulum will
swing back, and that the coming college generation will uplift the standard of reading and thought in our nation. Thus
only will we uplift the ideals of the nation itself.

INFIRMARY NOTES.
Since the beginning of the year, the hospital has been well filled almost every week with students sick with la
grippe and tonsillitis. There are at present four men in the Infirmary, all of whom are improving. Several milder cases
are reported in the dormitories. L. A. Armstead, who has been quite sick with pneumonia, is convalescing nicely. L. P.
Smith, of the Freshman class, injured his arm while exercising in the outdoor gymnasium last week and went to Charlotte
for an X-Ray examination. A fractured elbow was found to be the trouble. It is improving rapidly now. It might
be of interest to state that Mr. Nolen, landscape architect, in his plans for the improvement and extension of the
Davidson campus recommends that a new infirmary with accommodations for twelve men, be built across the street from the residence
of Mr. Jackson. This location is quiet, well-drained and the exposure excellent.

WANT ADS.
RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

KODAK DEVELOPING and Printing. Leave your films at 20 Watts or 10 Rumple. Give us a trial. Mallard & Wooten.

JUNIOR SPEECHES and work carefully typewritten. C. Cumming.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. B. Mooney, Phone 90.

One Hundred Cents on the Dollar
That is what every Equitable policy is worth at Maturity---whether a Death Claim or an Endowment.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.

Hence Equitable policies are popularly known as THE GOVERNMENT BONDS OF LIFE INSURANCE.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See R. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

Visit the New Barber Shop
E. R. JENKS Proprietor

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mayhew Pressing Club
Alexander & Lawrence Props.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

War Sale
We have the goods the war has so seriously affected our business the past six months that we are now
making a big reduction on everything. NO RESERVATIONS WHATEVER. NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY.
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

Give Us A Trial

If it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS and PRODUCE IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE S. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy
EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH And BE CONVINCED
L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.
