The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Davidson Is Victorious In Debate With Clemson

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 7

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

High Schools Hold Meet Here Saturday

Decision For Affirmative Is Won by Alexander and Rowan.

Davidson scored a signal victory on the intellectual gridiron last Monday night when the Davidson team, represented by U. S.
Alexander and C. H. Rowan, won the decision over Clemson College in the Winthrop College Auditorium at Rock Hill. Before
a large attendance, which almost filled the newly enlarged and beautified Winthrop auditorium, the teams offered their contentions as to
whether Foreign Immigration into the United States should be further restricted by the imposition of a literacy test. In the
first round, and especially in the refutations, the arguments of the Davidson men proved unanswerable, and the decision was rendered
four to one in favor of the Red and Black team. At no period in the debate did the outcome
seem in doubt, the masterful array of facts and logic by the Davidson debaters meeting successfully at every point the
oratory of the Clemson team.

Before the commencement of the conflict and while the judges were handing in their decisions, the Winthrop Glee Club rendered
several delightful selections, which were well received and enjoyed. Dr. D. B. Johnson, President of Winthrop College, presided over the
debate, and made a few happy introductory remarks. The debaters marched on the platform amid the applause of the audience
and yells of the large Davidson delegation of 125 students. The entire Winthrop student body and many visitors from the
town were present.

The debate under discussion was “Resolved, That Foreign Immigration into the United States should be further restricted by imposition of
a literacy test.” The first speaker to take the floor was C. H. Rowan, of the affirmative for Davidson. In
a clear and forceful manner, he showed the recent changes in the character of immigration, and the change therefore in
its problem. After a definition of the terms of the question, he outlined clearly the issues, and then proceeded to
show that there is need of further restriction because of the oversupply of unskilled labor in the country, and the
inability of American laborers to compete with the new immigrants, proving these statements with convincing facts and statistics.

The first speaker on the negative was D. F. Folger, of Clemson. He held that America has been and always
should be an asylum and refuge for the poor and unfortunate, and argued that the illiteracy test would keep out
many worthy immigrants and was not a fair method of restriction. U. S. Alexander, continuing the affirmative argument for Davidson,
then proceeded to show with strong, well-prepared arguments that the literacy test is the logical test to bring about further
restriction, because of the industrial, social, and political undesirability of the immigrants. He closed his debate with the argument that
the literacy test is a feasible and practicable test showing the restriction it would give, and the ease of its
application and favorable reaction on the countries of the immigrants.

D. E. Swinehart, of Clemson, was the last speaker of the negative, and endeavored to show that the literacy test
would keep out immigrants we now need in our industries, and made an eloquent plea to (Continued on page 4)

the Village People.

Miss Charlotte Cranford and her friend, Miss Amy Herrick, both attending school in Hendersonville, were in Davidson for the Easter
holidays.

Misses Mildred Johnson, from Converse; Mary Richards, from Columbia College; Bonnie Shelton, from Elizabeth, and Sarah Wooten, from Queens, were
here for the weekend spending their Easter holidays. Miss Marjory Vance visited Miss Sarah Wooten. Miss Frances Worth, of Salem
College, spent the Easter holidays here.

Dr. J. W. Lingle will lecture at Statesville next Thursday as the guest of The Electic Club.

Mrs. Lingle will address a meeting of the Federated Women’s Club in Concord on Wednesday. Mrs. L. White, of Statesville,
spent the weekend at the home of Professor Currie. Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Cranford, of High Point, visited Mr. and
Mrs. M. L. Cranford last week. Professor A. Currie will deliver an address at the Iredell County Commencement on April
9.

Dr. J. W. Lingle delivered the address at the Davie County Commencement on the 5th of April.

Prof. A. Currie has been asked to deliver an address at the closing of the Ronda schools. Mr. and Mrs.
Humphrey, of Greenwood, Miss., spent the weekend visiting their son, Guy Humphrey (’18). While here they were guests of Mrs.
W. D. Vinson.

Thornwell Smith (’17) is visiting his mother, who has been sick, but is now improving.

The Sunday school will hold its anniversary next Sunday afternoon.

Dr. M. E. Sentelle is spending several days at his home in Greenville, Tenn. Dr. and Mrs. Harding went to
Charlotte to attend Dr. Chapman’s opening meeting.

Mrs. Robert Lafferty, who has been visiting the Misses Lafferty, returned to Charlotte last week.

Mrs. Frank Andrews, of Charlotte, is on a ten days’ visit to her sister, Mrs. Ida Davis, and other friends
in town.

Miss Mary Richards gave a most delightful reception last Saturday night in honor of Miss Katherine Worth. The invited guests,
beside the guest of honor, were Misses Irene Hudson, Louise Manning and Frances Worth, and Messrs. George Hudson, Rouse, Hay,
Dunn and Meek. A very enjoyable evening was spent.

Miss Boinest was the guest of Miss Mildred Johnston during the Easter holidays.of State to Participate. The West Central Division
of State High Schools of North Carolina, comprising 44 high schools, will meet at Davidson, April 15 and 16, for
the purpose of holding their annual contest. This contest will consist of spelling, compositions, declamations, recitations, and athletics. These schools
meet at Davidson at the invitation of Dr. Martin and the faculty. The judges have been chosen and all arrangements
made for holding the contests. On April 15, at 8 p.m., the following contests will be held: Spelling contest in
Latin room, Composition contest in Bible room, preliminary contest in declamation in Phi society hall, and preliminary contest in recitation
in Eumenean society hall. The final contest in declamation and recitation will be held in Shearer hall. The athletic contests
will be held on the athletic field April 16, at 10 a.m.

THE COMING EMORY DEBATE. In order to make ultimate arrangements for the coming Davidson-Emory debate to be held April 2,
at Agnes Scott College, Manager and Alternate J.G. Patton will leave Thursday, April 8, for Atlanta. Saturday night the debaters,
Frank Price and Frank Smith, will follow. After much work, our debaters are now ready for the fray. And they
will find worthy opponents in the Emory debaters, Mabee and King, for in the past seven years Emory has not
lost a series of debates. The judges will be Dr. C. B. Wilmer, pastor of St. Luke's Episcopal church; W.
G. Cooper, secretary of Atlanta Chamber of Commerce; H. A. Etheridge, W. T. Wilson, and H. A. Alexander. The last
three named are prominent lawyers of Atlanta.

SOPHOMORE BANQUET. The managers of the Sophomore banquet announced that it has been decided to postpone the banquet until April
21. This is the same date that Davidson's game with the University of Georgia is scheduled, and thus they will
get a chance to see the game without extra expense. A great deal of interest has been taken in this
by the Sophs, but owing to various causes several members have not yet signed up. It is hoped that every
Soph who wants to go and has not signed up will see Mr. Hampton, manager of the banquet, at once.
Manager Shaw, of the baseball team, in cooperation with Mr. Hampton, has fortunately been able to secure a special train
to come back that night. The following speakers and their subjects have been announced by Toastmaster McKay: "We are Here,"
Algernon B. Reese; "The Absent Ones," Everett Nisbet; "Prophesy," Campbell Ansley; "The Athletic Prowess of '17," Samuel R. Keesler; "The
Spirit of '17," James McLeod Paisley; "The Philanthropist of Davidson," John Paisley McLeod; "The Twenty-First Annual Address to Sophomores," Prof.
Archibald Currie; "Our Beloved Faculty," Andrew Brown; "Hail to the Ladies," B. F. Hagood. Several dead trees on the campus
have recently been removed and new ones planted in their places.

1915. NO. 25

Red and Black Defeats Wofford by Good Score Lawson Pitches Two-Hit Game--- Teammates Have Batting Bee. Davidson pounced upon Wofford
in the second game of the season, April 5, on the Rock Hill diamond, and defeated them 7 to 1.
The diamond was a little slow due to the recent rains, and the wind was blowing rather fast for a
ball game, but notwithstanding these hindrances, the nine played first-class ball. The game was the Red and Black's from the
beginning, and not once did Wofford threaten to overturn the number registered by them. The game was featured by many
hard hits for extra bases, but it happens that all of them were obtained by the Davidson batters. Lawson held
Wofford down to two hits, one of them being a scratch. He struck out eight men and allowed only one
man a free trip to the initial sack. His pitching was superb. The wind affected his curve balls, but that
did not hinder him, since he had so many fast ones in store. Wofford travelled hitless until the seventh inning,
when Osborne managed to ease one through Somerville. Christenbury started the game with a hit, and it was the third
time he had placed that stunt this year. Groome was the "Big Coh" for the day. He went to the
bat four times and came down with a home run, a three-base hit, and a single. His four-bagger was a
terrific clout over the center fielder's head, and there is no telling how far it would have gone if the
wind had not been blowing just the wrong way. Captain Osborne was Wofford’s best player, scoring the only run and
getting one of the two hits. Wofford’s only run came in the fourth. Osborne hit a hard grounder to Christenbury,
who was unable to field it; he was sacrificed to second and to third, and came home when Lawson cut
loose a wild pitch. Davidson outclassed their opponents in every stage of the game, but Wofford stuck to them and
caused them to work hard at times. The Rock Hill people seemed very much pleased with the Davidson team, and
although the crowd was small this time, it is possible that on the 29th of this month they will turn
out better to witness the game with South Carolina.

Box score:

DAVIDSON
Christenbury, 2b
Somerville, ss
Alford, c
Groome, cf
Keesler, cf
Ansley, 3b
Hughes, lf
Brown, rf
Austin, rf
Black, 1b
Saunders, 1b
Lawson, p

Totals

WOFFORD
Osborne, L., 2b
Bamberg, lf
Osborne, R., c
Moore, 1b
Holroyd, ss
Wiggins, cf
Brunson, rf
Cauthen, 3b
Raddy, p

Totals

(Continued on page 4)
