The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Davidson College Day Observed
President Currell, of University of South Carolina, the Speaker.

Yesterday, November 2, Davidson College Day was observed. Classes were suspended at 11 o'clock and chapel services suspended till 11:30. Dr. W. S. Currell, the president of the University of South Carolina, was the speaker for this year. After the regular exercises, Dr. Currell spoke on "Education and the Higher Life." First, he clearly defined education, showing that it was really merely a filling process in comparison with the higher life. The higher life comprises the real things of life, whereas education is merely a means. "Though it is a means, the best possible use must be made of it, but the eyes must be ever upon the higher life." He ended by laying down clearly and forcibly the principle that success in the higher life comes only through the observation of Christ’s principles and doctrines. The speech was excellent and very applicable to students and student life.

Dr. Currell was Professor of English, Psychology, and Political Economy at Davidson from 1886 to 1895, going afterwards to Washington and Lee. In 1913, he was called to the presidency of the University of South Carolina. Tuesday night, a reception was tendered to Dr. Currell by Dr. and Mrs. Martin. Members of the faculty and their wives were invited. A splendid two-course dinner was served, and the evening’s entertainment proved a very enjoyable one.

EU. SOCIETY ADOPTS NEW CONSTITUTION

At a meeting of the Eumenean Society last Monday morning, the second term officers were installed, and a new constitution adopted, involving radical changes in the society routine. Hereafter, Freshmen will not be admitted to the society until the beginning of the spring term. Until that time, candidates for admission to the society will enter the “Eumenean Freshman Society,” presided over by the regular society officers, and will only be eligible for membership on recommendation of those officers, sitting as a board of critics. The dues, which will be purely nominal, will go to the purchase of an “Improvement medal,” to be awarded to the Freshman making the greatest progress during membership in this society.

It was also decided to turn the regular society at its Saturday night meetings into a legislative body; topics of current interest to be discussed from the floor. This will probably alternate with the regular debates. The records of the society have been taken to the library, where those of historical interest, including those written by Woodrow Wilson, will soon be placed on exhibition. It is planned to have them remain there permanently in glass cases made especially for them.

A regulation has been passed by the executive committee of the Athletic Association requiring all men who play tennis to wear long trousers and a regulation shirt instead of the gymnasium and track suits that have been in vogue.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 3, 1915.

Contest With Game

WOODROW WILSON GETS DEDICATION OF 1916 “QUIPS AND CRANKS”

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

My dear Mr. Mullen:

October 25, 1915

I have your kind letter of October twenty-first and in reply would say that it would give me real pleasure to have you dedicate the 1916 volume of Quips and Cranks to me. I feel very much gratified that you should have thought of me in this way, for I look back with the greatest pleasure to my year at Davidson. Under another cover, I am sending you an autographed photograph of myself as you request.

Cordially and sincerely yours,

Mr. L. A. Mullen,
Editor, Quips and Cranks,
Davidson College

With the information that the editors of “Quips and Cranks” are putting forth their best efforts to produce a splendid annual in 1916 comes the announcement that it will be dedicated to President Wilson. In making this dedication, there was at first some hesitancy on the part of the staff due to the thought that Mr. Wilson might feel that it would be making capital of the fact that he had once attended Davidson. However, a letter was addressed to the President asking his consent to the dedication, and also for an autographed photograph of himself for use in the annual. His reply, which appears above, set at rest all doubts as to his attitude in the matter. In the past, it has been the unalterable policy of the staff to keep the matter of dedication a secret until the appearance of the annual in the spring.spring. It has been decided this year to make an exception to this rule in light of the fact that there will be a larger demand for this volume, and as the management has to order all annuals five months in advance, it was deemed expedient to make this announcement at this time.

Juniors Defeat Fresh In Class Basket Ball
Carolina Secretary Speaks to Y. M.C.A.
Game Not As Hotly Contested As the Former One.

The Juniors defeated the Freshmen for the second time in a rather one-sided affair Monday morning, by running up a score of 21 to the Freshmen's 13. The game was not as fast as some of the others which have been staged during the series, neither team being able to make their shots good, although a large number of attempts were made. Murray, of the Juniors, played an especially fast defensive game, getting into nearly every play, and intercepting (Continued on page 4)

Mr. T. C. Boushall Gives Fine Address Thursday Night.

Last Thursday evening Mr. T. C. Boushall, Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. of the University of North Carolina, addressed the local Association. The subject was “The Morning Watch.” Mr. Boushall laid down as a basis the fact that the spiritual nature starves without prayer, and prayer makes the true man, that great joy and strength await the man of prayer. With this as a foundation he continued by saying that prayer confined to a (Continued on page 4)

No. 8. Game Is Cancelled
Failure to Agree Over Interpretation of Contract Is Cause.

On last Thursday night the game which was to have been played on Friday between the University of South Carolina and Davidson was cancelled after a long conference between officials of the two colleges. This cancellation was of course a disappointment to all Davidson and Carolina supporters alike, and in order that the exact facts may be known and understood we publish herewith a signed statement from Dr. J. W. McConnell, the chairman of the local committee on athletics, which sets forth clearly the reasons for the cancellation.

“It will probably be of interest to the alumni and friends of both Davidson College and the University of South Carolina to ascertain the real reason for the failure of the game of football to be played today. The University of South Carolina team was in a position where no member of the faculty or athletic board would certify that all players were eligible under their own athletic rules. The contract for the game was signed on May 10, 1905, and stated that the eligibility rules of each institution were to determine the standing of its own players. There is practically no difference in the rules of the two institutions as published in their 1905 catalogues. No member of the faculty of the University of South Carolina would certify that all the Carolina players were eligible under those rules, one professor stating frankly that he knew they could not qualify and in his opinion should not play. Davidson did not protest a single one of the Carolina players and only asked for a list properly qualified under the 1905 rules as published in the Carolina catalogue of April, 1905. This list could not be furnished and the Carolina management insisted that the game be played under their rules of 1903-04, which could not be accepted by the faculty of Davidson College, since the contract was made after the Carolina rules had been adopted. The Davidson team was held in readiness until after midnight, ready to leave for Charlotte in machines, so anxious were the students and faculty for the game. The proceedings were marked by entire frankness, and no attempt at any concealment as to all facts in the case were made by any committee or management on either side, but Carolina contended that the game should be played under the 1903 rules, whereas Davidson claimed that the contract was made in 1905 under 1905 rules and such eligibility rules should be enforced as well as playing rules published in Spalding’s guide. This game has been a classic in the athletic history of the two institutions, and it is to be hoped in the coming years it can be established on a firm and satisfactory basis.

John W. McConnell, M.D.
Chairman, Faculty Committee on Athletics.”

The physical examination of this year’s Freshman class reveals these facts: Average weight, 134 lbs.; average height, 5 ft. 8 inches; average age, 18.4 years.