6 The DAVIDSONIAN. March 31, 1915

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J.P. Williams....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick........ Business Manager
J. H. Carson and L. G. Edgerton, Assistant Managers

STAFF:
G. W. Gignilliat
Norman Johnson
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ Staff:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
K. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
I. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

It has been over a year now since that good ship, “The Davidsonian,” amid gloomy predictions as to her final wreck and ruin, and enthusiastic wishes for a safe and prosperous voyage, was first launched on the troublous seas of college life. And we feel that she has made a prosperous voyage and that her white sails have carried a goodly cargo of interesting news from port to port. During this year she has had fair and foul weather, storms and calms, but always the sailors have felt that there were men in port who had perfect confidence in them and who were looking forward with eagerness to the coming of their ship. It is for this interest, trust, and co-operation on the part of our patrons that we, the outgoing editorial staff of The Davidsonian, wish to render thanks. We feel that what success this paper has achieved has not been due to any one set of men, but to the fact that all Davidson has been behind us from the start. And for this new editorial staff, this new crew of sailors who are to sail our good ship for the coming year, we would ask that same spirit of trust and confidence which you have shown us. The new staff has been selected through a competitive system, a system which ensures a combination of experience and ability in the men selected. That The Davidsonian for the coming year will be an improvement over what it has been for the past year there is no doubt in our minds. With a definite organization and an experienced staff, The Davidsonian has an assured success before it. We can only wish this new staff the most enjoyable and prosperous of voyages and assure them of our heartiest co-operation with them in every manner possible.

THAT ROCK HILL TRIP.

Do you remember those terrible numbing moments when you were first called on to speak in society? You felt your feet growing to an enormous size and your ears forming a plane perpendicular to that of your head. Electric shudders twitched your limbs, a lobster red replaced the rose pink on your cheek and your voice ranged anywhere from A to high Z. And oh, those cruel, those critical eyes that stared from the adamantine countenances of supercilious upperclassmen, those eyes that drilled holes through you despite your agonizing squirming! Haven't you a great admiration for men who have undergone all these trials, who by sheer force of moral courage and determination have become the representatives of our college? When it takes our debaters the better part of a day to trundle all those reference books to their room in a wheelbarrow, when it takes the whole of six weeks to go through them and properly digest their contents, we think it safe to say that they deserve just backing. Last fall we showed Clemson that our college had the nerve, the brawn, the courage, and the pep to drown the Tiger's roar even while we tied knots in his tail. Let us show Clemson this spring at Rock Hill that we have a sufficient quantity of brains, college spirit, and “googoo eyes” to send the Tiger howling back again to his sylvan solitude. We know that Alec and Rhody have the brains and that the Tiger is going to feel bad when they get through with him. We know that you, the students of Davidson, have the spirit and can produce the “googoos” and “broadly” talk on occasion. Next Monday is the proper time to show your spirit and your heart-smashing abilities. Advance to victory, lads, with that glorious refrain on your lips, “I hear you calling me.”

AN APPRECIATION.

The last four issues of The Davidsonian have been ably edited by the Acting Editor, G. W. Gignilliat. Both the Editorial Staff and the former Editor wish to express to him their appreciation of his work, which has met with such favor.

NEW EDITORIAL STAFF WILL ASSUME OFFICE

The present staff of The Davidsonian has been busy for the last week in an attempt to organize the paper upon a sound working basis for the new editorial staff which itto take charge of next week's paper. As a result of this, a new constitution has been adopted by the staff and new members have been elected. Latta Law and W. D. Sparrow were elected as rising Senior members, and R. H. Ratchford, T. J. Mitchell, and P. B. Price as rising Junior members of the editorial staff. All of these men are from the reporters’ staff, and their election was based upon a strict competitive system. T. J. Mitchell was elected by the staff as managing editor and P. B. Poe as assignment editor. On Monday morning, the two newly elected rising Senior members of the editorial staff, W. D. Sparrow and Latta Law, together with J. P. Williams, the assistant editor of the present staff, were placed before the student body for the purpose of electing the editor-in-chief of the new staff. As a result, J. P. Williams was elected. With his perfect knowledge of every detail of the newspaper work, Williams is certain to get out a successful paper. 

Tuesday morning, J. H. Carson and L. G. Egerton, the two assistant business managers, were recommended to the student body, and as a result of the vote, J. H. Carson was elected as the new business manager. He will, however, not assume active charge of matters until May, as it is almost impossible for a business manager to surrender his work in the middle of the term. The Constitution of The Davidsonian is a short, snappy little document which the staff has adopted for governing the paper. The principal items of interest in it are those governing the elections and duties of the staff members. It will be presented in the next issue of The Davidsonian, the first issue which the incoming staff will have charge of.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.

April 3—Debate—Affirmative: Aiken, Bellingrath, Boggs, L. K., and Dumas. Negative: Bates, Brown, A., Boswell, and Boggs, M. A. Phi. Society: Affirmative: Hart, Stone, Farrior, Rourk, and Howland. Negative: McBryde, I. L., Cleary, Craig, H. B., Morrison, H., and Witt. Monday, April 5—Eumenean Society: Saunders, Savad, Smith, L. P., Sprunt, Thomas, Shirley, Smith, F. H., Somerville, and Patrick. Phi. Society: Young, A. L., Campbell, Finley, R. G., Alexander, Overton, Ratchford, McGeachy, McLeod, J. D., and McBryde. Saturday night, Eumenean Society: prepare their material, it might be safe.

WANT ADS.

Rev. Thomas R. English, D.D., a prominent professor at Union Seminary, was found dead in his home last Friday morning. He was first seen by his wife about 7:45 o'clock, sitting in his chair with his Bible on his knee. Dr. English was born in Sumter County, S.C., on November 18, 1850. He graduated from Davidson College at the age of twenty-two, and took his theological course at Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S.C. In 1875, he graduated from the seminary, and in 1893, he was elected to the chair of English Bible at Union Theological Seminary. All classes and exercises were suspended at the Seminary because of his death. Dr. English was highly esteemed and beloved by all who knew him. The sudden shock of his death is deeply felt by all of his friends. The sincere sympathy of all Davidson men is extended to the bereaved family.

FOR THAT “CONKLIN” Self-filling Fountain Pen see H. R. Dishough, 19 Rumple.

LOST—A vest. Finder return to W. P. Evitt, 10 N. Chambers and receive reward.

RATES: One time, 5c. 2 lines. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N.C.

DEATH OF DR. ENGLISH.

W. B. McKinnon spent the weekend in Charlotte visiting relatives.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history, it has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for SERVICE, STRENGTH, SECURITY.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly

Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark.

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY, remember we always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits, and Candy. Always Fresh - Always the best. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.

L. A. ELLIOTT
Next door to White Drug Co.