i) The DAVIDSONIAN. February 24, 1915

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 29 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price..... Editor-in-Chief
P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
D. Patrick....... Business Manager
J. H. Carson and L. G. Edgerton, Assistant Managers

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
I. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

A MUSEUM OF DIRT.

There is on the second floor of Chambers, facing the campus, a great, spacious room which runs the whole width of the main building. In days gone by it was the library hall, and remnants of this old library are still strewn over the floor and through the three galleries. It is a favorite occupation of Davidson men now to delve into the piles of old magazines and records that are left on the shelves. The hall is dignified today, however, with the name of museum. On the main floor are large cabinets of rocks, fossils, shells, and minerals. Several shelves are filled with specimens, which are said to total ten thousand in number. Strange to say, though, this use is not intended for inspection. Surely no one would say that it is never to be seen by outside friends when the dust of a century seems to lie all over it. Whether this is to illustrate the geologic principle of erosion or the manner of land formation, we do not know. But we do know that the specimens in the cabinets are being scattered and moved about, that the books left on the shelves in the hall are being thrown around, and that the whole place with its dust and dirt presents an appearance of rack and ruin.

The 1914 Davidson catalogue says of the museum: “The Geology department has at its disposal splendid (?) cabinets of rocks, fossils, etc., found in the college museum. These cabinets have been accumulating (dust?) for fifty years. Besides numerous smaller additions by gifts, exchange, and purchase, the ‘Brumby Cabinet’ was added by purchase, containing one thousand two hundred minerals, three thousand fossils, and one thousand one hundred recent shells; there was added by donation, about one thousand five hundred minerals; and also a collection of shells given by State Geologist Kerr.”

If we are in possession of such a valuable museum, consisting of cabinets given and purchased, it seems that a little money ought to be spent in keeping it clean and free from careless intruders. Much has been said from time to time on this question. Let us hope that something may be done immediately to change the room from an eyesore to a place of interest when our friends visit Davidson at Commencement. The great high ceiling and high windows looking out toward the pillars have always given the hall a distinctive appearance, and very little expense in cleaning and improvement would make the museum an interesting and attractive feature of the college. But of what value is a museum of dirt?

PRESENT AND FUTURE.

It was a fine thing and inspiring to Davidson undergraduates to see five or six old classes represented at the Alumni Banquet in Charlotte last week rise and pledge their members to a $500 share in the new Gymnasium which is to be built within a year or two. We need the Gymnasium badly and we will look forward eagerly to its completion. But in our enthusiasm over future plans and needs, let us not forget our present needs in the way of athletics. They are urgent needs and cannot be neglected. The Alumni Athletic Association is facing a crisis in its new history, a crisis of financial stringency. New coaches and splendid coaches have been secured and will be secured. The Alumni Association does this through its faith in the loyalty of Davidson Alumni. Surely they will not fail. They have never failed before, and the Association is looking to them now for their adamant support in giving Davidson victorious teams this year. After all, college athletics is made up of men, and in our eagerness for new buildings and equipment, let us not forget the present need for means to develop the material we already have at hand.

We have been glad to receive several copies of “The Clarion,” a monthly paper published by the students of the Belmont High School, Belmont, N.C. It seems to us that thisis one of the best of the high school papers that we have seen and it is a credit to the Belmont Schools and to the “Clarion” staff.

UNION SEMINARY PLAYS CHARLOTTE Y. M. C. A.

There was a splendid game of basketball played in Charlotte at the Y. M. C. A. last Monday, when the team of Union Theological Seminary measured its strength against that of the “Green Machine.” It was a hard-fought game from start to finish. At the start, it looked as if it would be a “run-away” for the Union team, but in the latter part of the last half, the Charlotte team came back strong and won the game by two points. The “Green Machine” was really outplayed, but the Union men were handicapped in that they were accustomed to playing under collegiate rules rather than Y. M. C. A. rules, the “two-hand rule” especially troubling them. Consequently, there were a great many fouls made. Those starring on the Union team were Locke White and “Molly” Boyd. There were several Davidson men on the Union team, among whom were Locke White, “Molly” Boyd, and Bedinger (sub).

REV. R. T. COIT WILL ADDRESS Y. M. C. A.

The regular Y. M. C. A. meeting next Thursday night will be led by Rev. R. T. Coit, missionary to Korea. “Bob” Coit, as he is familiarly known at Davidson, graduated in ‘09 and for several years has been in the foreign field. He was supported for several years by the Davidson Student Body. Those who attended the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte will remember the forceful address made by Mr. Coit on Wednesday morning. Mr. Coit will conduct special prayer services for the Y. M. C. A. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, and will preach at the church on Sunday.

SOPH MAGAZINE

The Sophomore number of the Magazine went to press on the 20th of this month and is expected to come out about the 5th of March. Every article in it was written by a Sophomore, and as there seems to be a good deal of talent in that class, it should be a good number of the Magazine. There will be no editorials in this number, since the whole thing was given to the Sophomores. Even the Exchanges were written by one of that class.

WANT ADS.

RATES: The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. Howland, 26 R.

ALUMNI NOTES

Rev. M. C. Story, ‘99, is pastor of the Presbyterian church in Marion, N. C.

Herman Shaw is principal of the Wilmington High School.

Walter P. Sprunt is connected with the firm of Alexander Sprunt & Sons, Wilmington, N. C.

W. M. Wynn sat at the dining table at the Selwyn with Dr. Speer on Wednesday of last week and reports an interesting conversation with him on Davidson and Davidson men. Dr. Speer said he regretted exceedingly that he was unable to stop at Davidson on this trip.

Founders’ Day was celebrated at the University of South Carolina in great style. Dr. William Spencer Currell was inaugurated as President and a number of excellent speeches were given by prominent professors from other Southern colleges.

WHAT THE EQUITABLE OFFERS:

1. SECURITY: The policies issued by the Equitable Society are valuable because they grant insurance that insures—protection that protects;
2. Because each policy contains all the benefits and “options” that can properly be combined in a single contract;
3. Because every policy is drawn to conform to the rigid provisions of the Law.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY

J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

War Sale: We have the goods and need the money. The war has so seriously affected our business the past six months that we are now making a big reduction on everything. NO RESERVATIONS WHATEVER. NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY.

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

If it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE L. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy.

EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH

Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED

Next door to White Drug Co.