2 The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
H. Ratchford

BUSINESS MANAGER
J. H. Carson

Reporters
William Hollister
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal
F. H. Hamilton
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
Latta Law

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C. Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

1915-16, This Announcement Number brings a message to the old men and to the new. It tells of the events of the summer, as connected with Davidson, but most of all, it tells of the prospects for the rapidly approaching new year, the events of which are yet to be recorded. It is a wonderful opportunity which is offered to every man on the campus. For the old men, it is an opportunity to return to incomplete tasks and to take up their work with renewed vigor. To the men who have heretofore fallen short of their best, a new opportunity is offered and in no place is failure more quickly forgotten and effort and success given more ready acceptance, than on a college campus, and especially at Davidson. To the Freshmen, it is often a time for putting away of childish things. An opportunity is offered you to be “men.” The close care and supervision which has surrounded many of you will be in a way withdrawn and you will be expected to stand upon your own feet. A cordial fellowship awaits you, but closely joined with this feeling is one that each new man is being tested. In many cases, your entire college course will depend upon the first few days and weeks, and too much care cannot be given to the conduct and speech of this period. Mix in a friendly way with all, but don’t get mixed. The best and closest friends are generally not the easiest or the most quickly made. It is useless to give detailed advice, if this were possible, for to each man different advice would be given. But a clear head and common sense will carry you through most difficulties. There are few pleasures greater than the meeting of old friends and the making of new ones and as this season at Davidson rapidly approaches, there is the ever-strengthening desire on the part of all who will in any way be a part of the college for the coming year, to turn their steps toward Davidson. To all a cordial welcome is extended.

The DAVIDSONIAN. August 23, 1915

DAVIDSON SPIRIT.

Renewing of college friendships is an experience to be fully appreciated only by those who have passed through it. The hearty handshake and the glad “howdy” are manifestations that hearts are beating true and warm. As a Junior or Senior clasps the hand of a Sophomore he sets on fire a love and affection for everything and everybody, that is remembered after sines and co-sines have been forgotten. Let us then, fellows, not suppress this feeling but encourage it and let it find an outlet in the characteristic Davidson “pep” which has always been the joy and pride of students and alumni; the fear and admiration of our rivals.

To the Editor of The Davidsonian.

After two months of very pleasant work for Davidson College in the eastern part of South Carolina, it is easy for me to decide what was most gratifying. Before my canvass I did not believe that our alumni were as loyal as many would have us suppose, but I am convinced that they are more true to the college than ever before. I found the same spirit and “pep” in the alumni as is shown the night before we play the University of North Carolina, in Charlotte. The one thing that pleased me more than any other was the high regard in which other college men hold the students of Davidson. Not once did I hear any college man say anything that would reflect discredit on them. Instead, there were always expressions of praise for every phase of the college's life and work. It seems to me that the place given us by our college rivals is the strongest advertisement we have. I know of alumni of other colleges who are sending their brothers to Davidson. Particularly is Davidson respected by our strongest rivals, and the coach of a team who played at Davidson last fall said that the Davidson team and entire student body were the most gentlemanly set of college men he had ever had relations with. The young men entering Davidson this fall have a right to expect great things and I am sure will uphold its traditions nobly and well.

J. R. McGregor.

To the Editor of The Davidsonian.

During the past eight or ten weeks I have had the pleasure of seeing a number of the Georgia alumni, friends and patrons of Davidson College, all of whom seem to think, regardless of the closeness of financial matters, that the year 1915-16 will be one of the greatest in the history of the institution. The attention of many young men contemplating entering college this fall has beendrawn from larger institutions to Davidson, due to the fact that Davidson, with a student body of about 350 men, is doing things in intercollegiate work which equals that of many schools of 600 to 1,000 men. Yours, P. D. Patrick.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS.

Returning students will be impressed with the fact that the campus was never prettier. Considerable work has been done on the trees this summer, removing dead branches, filling cavities, and treating scarred places. The Social Center Room, in the Y. M. C. A., which was discussed last Spring, has materialized. Workmen are busy now putting the building in order. Handsome club room furniture has been purchased and it is expected to arrive before the opening of college, so that the room may be christened with the Fresh reception.

Other important improvements have been made on the college plant—the residence occupied by Mrs. Campbell has been overhauled, a new porch added, and the house repainted. The halls of Georgia, Watts, and Rumple have been calcimined and the woodwork painted, adding much to the attractiveness of these dormitories. The radiators have been bronzed and the mattresses repaired. The Chambers building also has been gone over, the walls calcimined and the rooms on the second and third floor South Wing stocked with new furniture, consisting of double-deck iron beds and other furniture like that in Georgia and Watts.

Contractors have been busy this month installing steam heating plants in the Martin Chemical Laboratory and the Shearer Biblical Hall. A new boiler is being put in the Laboratory and the Shearer Hall will be connected with the central heating station. The tennis courts east of the Chemical Laboratory have been graded, resurfaced, rolled, and laid off anew. In order to give more room between the court and backstops, the courts have been run east and west. It is expected that these courts will be kept up by the Athletic Association and that they will be open for any and all students to play on. Sewer lines have been extended to accommodate the residences on Concord Avenue and an iron sewer laid to replace the terra cotta line which gave trouble last year on account of hedge and tree roots.

NEW FIELD SECRETARY.

The announcement that Rev. J. C. Shive, of Wilson, N. C., has accepted the office of Field Secretary for the college and will take up the work with the opening of the new term, that is the first of September, is agreeable news to all friends of Davidson that know anything of Mr. Shive and his work both in the pastorate and in the field of service similar to this which he is entering now in behalf of Davidson.

While the financial side is to be emphasized and Mr. Shive will primarily endeavor to increase the endowment fund of the institution, he will not limit himself to this, but will seek in every way possible to present the claims of Davidson to the natural patrons of the college and to extend its influence and power for good throughout all the territory in which the college has any right to consideration and favor.

Mr. Shive for the past six years has had charge of the Wilson church. Under his leadership, the church has grown very much in point of membership and in the increase of contributions to all the beneficent causes. The Sunday school is well organized and strong and the church in all of its departments of activity is full of life and vigor. That Mr. Shive should be willing to give up a work in which he is meeting with such marked success is a convincing proof of how important he feels the cause of Christian Education is and how deeply and vitally interested he is in it. The friends of Davidson have no doubt that he will bring into his new work the same zeal and enthusiasm and kindling interest that he has always shown as a minister and pastor. And not only so, from time to time, Mr. Shive has dropped out of the pastorate in earlier years to raise money for more than one church institution and his efforts have met with flattering success. It is not therefore as a novitiate or beginner that he enters the field as a representative of Davidson in particular and of the cause of Church and Christian Education in general.

When Coleridge was once asked for some proof of Christianity his answer was not a labored argument, but it consisted of two most significant words, “Try It.”

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON

TO THE NEW STUDENTS

We are headquarters for all kinds of Stationery
Waterman’s Fountain Pens

You Upper Classmen know our place---we will be glad to welcome you at the old stand. A fresh supply of Huyler’s Candy always on hand.

Remember
Our Fountain
Prescriptions A Specialty
Yours for Efficient Service
JETTON DRUG CO.

To the Students Entering College--

We offer the following list and ask the privilege of showing you the same: Beds---single and double, Mattresses, Dressers, Washstands, Rocking Chairs, Straight Chairs, Rugs, Druggets, Pillow Cases, Sheets, Curtain Poles, Cretonnes, Bowls and Pitchers, Slop Jars, Buckets, Dippers, Etc.

M. H. Goodrum & Co.