2 ¥ The DAVIDSONIAN. March 3, 1915

which is the place for a display of the more important issues in a more formal manner.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Annual, which is a yet better-dressed issue, “These three might be thought of as the house-garments of our lads, her
street clothes, and her reception gowns, all of which are necessary to form a complete wardrobe. Any Davidson student will
readily admit this: a lady must have a complete wardrobe.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price Editor in Chief
J. P. Williams Associate Editor
P. D. Patrick Business Manager
J. H. Carson and L. G. Edgerton, Assistant Managers

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ Staff:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
E. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

Yet in reality is there not a tendency to over-dress her on one occasion with no forethought concerning the next?
Or is there a tendency under the present method of publishing these periodicals? For there is only a limited field
from which to glean advertisements or support, and it is both human and divine for the manager of one publication
to use his best efforts to cover that field for his master before another manager can get there.

There can be but one logical result. In five or six years one of these periodicals will be starved out.
And just as a woman, to be conventional and happy, must have all three costumes, so Davidson, to be a
first-class college, must have all three records. Therefore it will be necessary to devise some means of connecting the three
by a closer tie than one of mere sentiment. For this reason it does not seem impractical that the financial
control of each should be placed in the hands of one board of managers instead of three such boards. All
money should be under the direction of this board and be proportionally given to the support of each publication.

The organization of such a board is a question of mere detail, which any schoolboy could work out. It should
be a democratic board without too much power in the hands of one man, because it is not possible to
secure a capable man each year. Then this board should place the contract for the publication of all three products
in the hands of one printing house, which because it is getting a large amount of work, will make a
reduction in the cost of each. And which will also be able to give more efficient service because it understands
the work of each of the other branches. Of course, such a course need not affect the editorial policy of
either publication. That would be separate and controlled just as it is now.

This systematic organization would accomplish several things and be thoroughly practical. By a carefully graded scale of prices, it would
be possible to sell a merchant advertising space in all three publications, because it would enable him to see that
his money was being spent in a business-like manner: and it would enable our agent to offer him space in
the publication of his choice. Then it would enable us to keep our accounts in a more methodical and systematic
way. Besides being able to cover the territory from which support should come, we would be able to spend our
money in a better-proportioned manner with the assurance that neither of our products would be overlooked. And again it would
prevent our publisher from charging exorbitantly for either product, because after he had “bid” on the entire work he could...

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

The twenty-fourth Junior speaking in Davidson history, and all's well! The annual Junior and Senior Oratoricals, which are rough and
ragged mountains to be crossed to the fearful Junior and Senior, fade fast in the memory of the alumnus after
he leaves. And yet these exercises are often the beginning of a career, and it is interesting to turn back
through the old magazines and records to find the subjects of the speeches of Davidson men of note who were
here in the eighties and nineties and “noughts.” Possibly no class on the Hill has as much oratorical talent in
it as that which makes its speaking debut at the end of this week. They will prophesy to us of
the nation’s future, and their speeches will prophesy to us of their future.better proportion the work of each one. But
best of all, this would be an organization with the responsibility centralized. The Curtis Publishing Company is somewhat after this
fashion. It publishes three magazines, each under a different editorial staff, but combines the financial departments. This system has proved
to be thoroughly practical for them. And from a business standpoint, there is no reason why it should not be
practical for us. Indeed, it is doubtful whether our lady will retain her full wardrobe unless it is purchased in
a systematic manner.

One little act of thoughtlessness that has already made its appearance on the athletic field is the common failing of
every onlooker to occupy the benches meant for the team. This is a common occurrence every year, which should not
be tolerated. The benches are placed there for the team’s use, and the bleachers for the onlookers. Let's see no
more of this. All grace and spirit to the forty-five coming orators, and all welcome and honor to the queens
of the Sunny South who are coming to crown the occasion!

A HINDRANCE

There is an all-too-frequent tendency to shuffling and whispering in the auditorium when the speaking is going on every year.
This thoughtlessness is often very distracting and disconcerting to the timid speaker and annoying to even the experienced one. For
the sake of the speakers and in consideration of those around us, let us try to correct this fault during
the coming exercises. More quiet, too, could be observed outside the door during speeches.

EDITORIAL RESOLUTION

Resolved, 1st: That the title “Alumnae Banquet” in last week’s headlines was a mistake in printing and not in judgment.

Resolved, 2nd: That the joke on the Assistant Editor in the last issue was written in all good will, and
that reciprocity is in order.

THE DAVIDSON PUBLISHING COMPANY

A few weeks ago Professor Fulton gave as his weekly assignment in writing to his Freshman English class the composition
of an editorial. The editorials written by the Freshmen in this exercise have been turned over to The Davidsonian Staff,
and the best of them will be published from time to time. The editorial below is the first of this
series.

There are three publications connected with Davidson College: a weekly paper which is the communication of commonplace issues—the statement of
the little things which go to make up our campus life; a monthly magazine, and better-dressed way; and a yearly
record of the most striking of all these; better still, can there be a different tenor organized.

NEW LIBRARY FICTION

New Fiction: “Beating Back,” Jennings; “Kent Knowles Quahaug,” Lincoln; “Clarion,” Adams; “Silver Sand,” Crockett; “Bambi,” Cooke; “Big Tremaine,” Van Vorst;
“Little Eve Edgarton,” Abbott; “Poet,” Nicholson; “Gideon’s Band,” Cable; “Hon. Percival,” Rice; “Witch,” M. Johnston; “Patrol of the Sun Dance
Trail,” Connor.

New Books on European War: “Real Truth About Germany,” Sladen; “Evidence in the Case,” Beck; “New Map of Europe,” Gibbons;
“Why We Are At War,” Oxford; “Modern Russia,” Alexinsky; “Hapsburg Monarchy,” Steed; “Germany and the Next War,” Bernhardi; “Germany and
England,” Cramb; “Present Hour,” Mackaye; “Japan to America,” Masaoka.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL FIRE INSURANCE

WANTED—To half-sole your shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N.C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WHAT THE EQUITABLE OFFERS: SECURITY

The policies issued by the Equitable Society are valuable because:
1. They grant insurance that insures—protection that protects;
2. Each policy contains all the benefits and “options” that can properly be combined in a single contract;
3. Every policy is drawn to conform to the rigid provisions of the Law.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

LET US SHOE YOU
LADIES
Our Spring Line of France Slippers consists of the latest cuts.

GENTLEMEN
Florsheim Shoes are part of a well-dressed man’s makeup.

If it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE L. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy.
EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.
