The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Class Reunions Commencement Feature Crowds of Visitors Expected Next Week Alumni to Gather---Dr. H. L. Smith, Ladies, Parents, and Friends
Will Annual Orator.

The coming Commencement promises indeed to be one of the most interesting for several years. A number of new features,
such as the Academic Procession and Class Day Exercises, will serve to add variety to the usual program. Davidson has
been especially fortunate this year in the speakers that have been secured for the occasion—Rev. R. L. Leyburn, D.D., of
Durham, N. C., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Durham; Rev. B. F. Wilson, D.D., of Harrisonburg, Va., for
many years President of Converse College, and Prof. S. H. Edmunds, of Sumter, S. C., a well-known alumnus of Davidson.

Instead of having the Annual Literary Address at 11:30 a.m., Tuesday, it was decided to place the Senior Orations at
this time and have the Annual Literary Address immediately before the Graduating Exercises on Wednesday morning. President Henry Louis Smith,
of Washington and Lee University, will deliver this address, and it is very fitting that the one who will in
a way bid farewell to the class of 1915 should be the one who gave it such a hearty welcome
when it first came to Davidson as a band of “wee freshies.”

It is hoped that all of the classes will make an attempt to have a representation at Commencement, and especially
the classes of 1880, 1890, 1895, 1900, 1908, 1910, and 1914. As has become a custom at Davidson, one of
the dormitories will be set aside for the alumni so that old classmates can be together as much as possible.
According to all reports, a number of relatives of the students with a goodly number of “the girls” will be
present, and the social side of Commencement should be a great success.

GRYPHON MEDAL AWARDED.

Frank W. Price has been awarded the Gryphon medal, which is each year given by the Order of the Gryphons
to the man in the Senior class who has accomplished most for the college during the four years.

During his course, Price has been a constant worker in practically every department of college life. He has been President
of the Y. M. C. A. during his Senior year; Editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian; member of the Annual Staff and
of the Magazine Staff; Chief Marshall; Student Council member; Chairman Debating Council; member of the Inter-collegiate Debating Team. He has
also received the Fiction Medal, Junior-Senior Debater's Medal, and has made the honor roll, averaging over 97 for the four
years. This final recognition of his worth and of the work which he has done for the college meets the
universal approval of the entire student body.

THE COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS ATTRACTIVE

The Commencement invitations arrived the first of the week and were distributed immediately. The paper invitations this year are bound
in beautiful white, with a light shade feature, and are tied with red and black tassel. The little booklet contains
the full program of Commencement exercises, with a list of the graduating class and marshals.

Throng the Hill.

The coming Commencement is not to be behind any others in gay festivities and crowds attending, for a large number
of ladies and friends and relatives of graduating students are expected to be present. The campus will be truly alive
for the four days beginning with Sunday. Ladies will be on the Hill from all Southern States, old Davidson men
will be clasping hands, and parents and trustees and older friends will furnish a goodly proportion of the visitors.

The following ladies are expected on the Hill during Commencement:

Charlotte, N. C.: Miss Corinne Gibbon, Misses Mildred and Aileen Butt.
Statesville, N. C.: Miss Mary McLean.
Columbia, S. C.: Miss Jane Tucker Fisher, Miss Jeanette Fisher, Miss Margaret Alexander.
Stuart Alexander, Hilda Conyers, Mattie Walker, Abigail Alexander, Elizabeth Alexander, Anne Taliaferro, Ella Moseley, Mary Carson, Minnie Conyers, Margaret Coles,
Annie Dewey Chambers, Katherine Steele, Mildred Finlayson.
Davidson: Miss Sarah Wooten, Miss Mary Parks Grey, Miss Maude Vinson.
Richmond, Va.: Miss Katherine Sarvey, Miss Ellen and Mrs. O'Neill.
Greenville, S. C.: Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Scarborough.
Sumter, S. C.: Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Crayton.
Charlotte: Miss Elizabeth Cobb.
Greenwood, S. C.: Miss Alice Rogers Clay.
Kentucky: Miss Marion Yount.
Statesville, N. C.: Miss Mattie Packard.
Baltimore, Md.: Miss Johnsie Simms.
Concord, N. C.: Miss Nan Rugheimer.
Charleston, S. C.: Miss Katherine Worth.
Davidson, N. C.: Miss Smith.
Easley, S. C.: Miss Lillian Wakefield.
Lenoir, N. C.: Miss Mary Roddey.
Rock Hill, S. C.: Miss Evelyn Blake.
Charlotte, N. C.: Miss Katherine McDonald, Miss Laura McGill Cannon, Miss Alice Brown.
Concord, N. C.: Miss Maggie Yorke Houston.
Monroe, N. C.: Miss Adelaide Johnson.
Hickory, N. C.: Miss Nancy Witherspoon, Miss Carrie Cartwright.
Yorkville, S. C.: Miss Emma Woods.
Chester, S. C.: Miss Jean Lindsay.
Camden, S. C.: Miss Helen Dodson.
Fayetteville, N. C.: Miss Theresa McCubbins, Miss Elizabeth McKenzie.
Salisbury, N. C.: Mr. and Mrs. Rowland.
Sumter, S. C.: Mr. and Mrs. A. M. McDonald.
Charlotte, N. C.: Misses Annie Morgan and Agnes Faucette.
Burlington, N. C.: Misses Bessie Le Floe, Nancy Shelton, Bonnie Orr, Joe Miller.
Charlotte, N. C.: Misses Ruth Brownlee, Mattie Mayfield, Anna Tribble.
Anderson, S. C.: Miss Louise Belk.
Spartanburg, S. C.: Miss Grace Price.
Lexington, N. C.: Miss Cordie Parker.
Albemarle, N. C.: Miss Sheppard.
Statesville, N. C.: Miss Meryl Booe.
Davidson, N. C.: Misses Octavia and Louise Hine, Ida and Mary Efird.
Winston, N. C.: Miss Crabtree.
Decatur, Ga.: Miss Lydia Sherard.
Williamston, S. C.: Miss Hollister.
Newbern, N. C.: Miss Williford.
Concord, N. C.: Miss Charlotte Harrell.
Cheraw, S. C.: Miss Ruth Berry.
Seneca.§. C.: Miss Sara Craig Winthrop; Miss Bonnie Moore, Winthrop; Miss Elizabeth Brawley, Statesville; Miss Sara Herint, Osween, S. C.;
Miss Tosie Tewerr, Portsmouth, Va.; Miss Pattie Bramlett, Travellers Rest, S. C.; Miss (Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 19, 1915.

Local Happenings During the Week

NO. 31

Base Ball Letters Awarded to Players

Doings of the Town People and Events of Interest.

Mrs. A. Currie and two children have gone for a two weeks’ visit to Wilmington.

Dr. Lingle’s niece, Miss Cora Sloan, will graduate at the State Normal on the 25th of May. Miss Sloan will
then visit Dr. and Mrs. Lingle here in Davidson.

J. M. Rumple returned home last week from A. & M., where he had been taking a special course in
electrical engineering.

Mrs. W. J. Martin is expecting two nieces here for Commencement, Misses Jane Dickson and Elizabeth Vardell.

Miss Catherine Worth, who has been visiting her aunt in Washington, returned home last week.

Miss Mary Young spent a few days in Charlotte last week visiting friends.

Mrs. Martin and Miss Eloise Martin were in Charlotte last week visiting Mrs. C. E. Carson.

Mrs. Vinson's many friends in Davidson are glad to hear that she is much improved.

Davidson people are proud that Miss Sarah Wooten won by a large majority in the Charlotte Observer's beauty contest.

Mrs. Bennet, mother of R. H. Bennet ('16), is visiting here for a few weeks.

Mrs. Violet Currie is visiting her son, Dr. Edward Currie, in Salisbury.

Mrs. Wheary is visiting friends in Concord.

Mrs. M. G. Fulton expects to go to Winston-Salem this week to visit Mrs. Reynolds.

Dr. and Mrs. Neal Anderson, of Winston-Salem, will motor over next Thursday.

Mrs. C. R. Gray was at Pioneer Mills last week visiting Mrs. Black.

Mrs. Paine, Miss Paine, and Mrs. Bennet went to Charlotte last week with Miss Hood, who was on her way
to South Carolina.

Prof. A. S. Cummings left for his home near Lexington, Va., last week.

Miss May Williams and Miss Julia Stinson are visiting in Davidson.

Mrs. Hall, who recently has recovered from an operation for appendicitis, has gone to be with her father in Harrisburg.

Mrs. P. B. Fetzer and Mrs. N. D. Fetzer spent the weekend as guests of Mrs. A. B. Young.

Miss Annie Love, of Richmond, Va., is expected to visit Mrs. Minter during Commencement.

Managers Elected.

Last Monday night at a meeting of the Athletic Association the baseball and track D.’s and D. C.'s were awarded
by Coach Fetzer. Those who received the baseball D. with a star were: Captain Alford, Christenbury, Stough, and Brown. The
new men who received the D. for the first time were: Groom, Lawson, Hengeveld, Keesler, S. R., Black, Wood, Saunders,
and Manager Shaw. Those who were awarded the D. C. were: Hughes, S. W., McKeithen, J. E., Daffin, McKinnon, L.
D., Douglas, Pharr, Moore, and Barnett. Those receiving the track D. with a star: N. Johnson and Gilchrist; while the
new D. men are: Anderson, Johnson, W. A., Crouch, and Worth.

Coach Fetzer in an earnest speech outlined the plans for next year. The Alumni, as they are straining every nerve
to raise the required amount for the new Gymnasium, will not be called upon at all to help with the
support of athletics here. Fetzer suggested that each class next year raise on behalf of athletics one hundred dollars. He
went on to say what a great thing the Gymnasium would be to Davidson, that the Alumni were doing a
great work trying to build it, and that it rested upon the student body to take their place in the
support of athletics.

The following managers were also recently elected: Baseball, R. G. Finley; basketball, R. W. McKay; assistant football, Reese and Hampton.
It was recommended and adopted that all the letters be made of the same design, the only difference being in
the size—the football to have the large D, baseball the smaller D, and basketball to have the smallest.

CLARK WINS GOLF FINALS.

The finals in the Golf Tournament were played off on Tuesday, the 5th, between Dr. Moore McConnell and J. W.
Clark. It was decided by those playing that two rounds should determine the winner on account of the pressing duties
of the former. In the first round, it seemed that both of the players were off their usual form on
account of lack of practice, but from the start, it looked as if the match was to be a very
close one indeed. At the end of the first round, the score was 1 up for Clark, but from then
on he strengthened and Dr. McConnell played the same that he did at the start. Clark then won in succession
the 10th, 11th, and 12th. From then the match was Clark's to the finish. The final score was 6 up
and 5 in favor of Clark. The score holes for the first round were: McConnell, 47 and Clark, 46. For
the second round Dr. McConnell, 50, and Clark, 47, making for a total: McConnell, 97, and Clark, 93.

THE ANNUALS WILL ARRIVE TOMORROW

The Annuals should be here tomorrow and will be given out as soon as possible after their arrival. No extra
copies will be given out until all of the first copies are sold. Further announcements will be made later.
