A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR

The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. III.

Varsity Basket Ball Begins This Week
Several Games to be Played Before the Holidays.

Basketball is receiving more attention this year at Davidson than ever before due to the fact that practice has begun
before Christmas and that this year we have a coach for the whole season. We are very fortunate in having
Mr. DeWitt Kluttz, who is thoroughly familiar with the game and who has had success in coaching both at Woodberry
Forest and Carolina. The team has been very much strengthened by the addition of some of the football men to
the squad. A short time ago the team, minus the football men, was defeated by the fast Statesville team by
the close score of 25 to 26, but this game does not count on the series to be played with
that team beginning here on the 8th. Manager Hill is arranging a very attractive schedule which will include practically every
college in the State, some of the leading Y. M. C. A.’s, and some colleges in South Carolina. The first
game of the season is with Statesville, Tuesday night, on the local floor. Statesville has a strong quint composed of
ex-college players, and either team will have to go the limit to win. On Saturday, December 18, Trinity comes for
a game. Trinity is always a contender for State championship, and can be counted on to have a crack team.
This year they are scheduled to play University of Virginia and several Northern schools.

ORDER OF THE GRYPHONS.

According to the announcement which was made last Commencement, the Order of the Gryphons will in the future be composed
of men from the Senior Class whose identity will not be known on the campus during the year, and announcement
of the membership for the preceding year will only be made at Commencement. The value of the order will be
in the work which it, as an order, or through its individual members, will be able to do for the
college, and the students, at the end of the year, must judge as to the merit of this work.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB MEETING.

The Blue Pencil Club, which is the Davidson Chapter of the Sigma Upsilon, held a meeting on Wednesday, November 24,
at which time five new members were added. Membership in this club is limited to members of the Senior Class,
and the work of the club is to encourage literary interests at Davidson. The new men added to the club
this Fall have been: S. B. Hay, S. M. Crisp, Jr., I. L. Payne, William Hollister, and W. A. Dumas.
A very interesting literary program was given by the new members, and after a general discussion of matters of interest
to the club, refreshments were served.

Students returning after Christmas will report to the treasurer by 6 p.m. of the opening day. Any matriculating later than
this will be charged a delayed registration fee of $2.00.

“Colonel” Scofield to Discontinue Business

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 8, 1915.

Letters Are Awarded
Class Basket Ball Series Is Concluded
Sophs Are Declared the Winners

After Forty-Five Years at Popular Local Stand.

Public announcement was made December 1 that S. C. Scofield, Davidson's famous “Colonel,” would retire from business with the passing
of the year 1915. The Colonel, or “Skit,” as the boys call him, has for forty-five years held forth as
the center of attraction for the students during their leisure hours, at “Skit’s Corner,” and they look upon the closing
of his store with genuine regret. It is the passing of a landmark.

Mr. Scofield moved to Davidson in 1857, from Columbia, S.C. His father, a contractor, had received the contract for the
construction of the historic Chambers building, and it stands a monument to his labors. The material was all taken from
the immediate vicinity, and even the brick were made in Davidson. The total cost was $85,000. The valuation today is
much above that figure. At the completion of the task, the family moved by wagon to Illinois, where they remained
during the war. During this period his father died, and Mrs. Scofield and her son returned to Davidson in 1867.
In 1870, the little grocery and confectionery store had its beginning, and into its coffers began to flow all the
spare “jitneys” from the campus. As he himself expresses it, “In the meantime, I got married,” and for over forty
years (until her recent death) he and Mrs. Scofield have occupied the same little home, connected with the store.

Mr. Scofield was the builder of the linen mill, and also helped lay out the telegraph lines in this community.
For years he was the efficient station agent for the railway company, until health confined him more closely to his
home. He was employed in the building of both the Y. M. C. A. building and the church, and has
probably done more in the “upbuilding” of Davidson than any other of its citizens. The Colonel's health makes it necessary
for him to give up active business life.The stack of goods is to be reduced through regular sale over the
counter, instead of being continued under different ownership. For the present, the store itself will remain vacant. Colonel Scofield has
not decided whether he will remain in Davidson or not, but it seems probable that he will. With the closing
of the doors, the familiar figure of the Colonel, with his old black slouch hat and the inevitable cigar, playing
checkers with the boys, becomes a pleasant memory with hundreds of Davidson alumni.

All-Class Team Is Picked.

By the cancellation of all the remaining games in the class basketball series, the Sophs have been acclaimed the winners
of the series for this season. The season as a whole has been very successful, and many hard and exciting
games have been played. The Sophomore quintet, captained by Sprunt, has shown itself in every way worthy of the honors
bestowed upon it. The Freshmen, with Hall as captain, have a good steady team, although not as strong a one
as was expected at the first of the year. The Seniors, with Dumas as captain, have an especially fast team,
and their teamwork and passing was one of the main features of the season. The Juniors seem to have been
marked with “hard luck” in some of the games, and although their playing was game and spirited throughout, it seems
that luck and light weight combined against them. The average weights of the different teams are approximately as follows: Seniors,
150 pounds; Juniors, 138 pounds; Sophs, 157 pounds; Fresh, 152 pounds. The standing of the teams at the end of
the season is as follows:

| Team | Won | Lost | Pct |
|--------|-----|------|------|
| Sophs | 6 | 1 | .800 |
| Fresh | 4 | 2 | .500 |
| Juniors| 3 | 4 | .430 |
| Seniors| 3 | 4 | .430 |

The class teams wish to express their thanks to Perry, '16; Reese, '17; and Childs, '18; for their services in
refereeing the games. The following all-class team has been picked by several of the Varsity men: King, of Sophs; Perry,
of Seniors, Forwards. Murray, of Juniors; Therrell, of Sophs, Guards. Williamson, of Fresh, Center. The following men were also recommended,
and should be mentioned: Nisbet, of Juniors, Forward; Worth, of Sophs, Guard; Dumas, of Seniors, Center.

The “dope a la peanut” drink is a thing of the past, and the rising classes will find the old
college without its memorable “loafing” place and the familiar “Skit.”

No. 13. To Football Men

Executive Committee Gives D. to Twelve and D. C. to Eighteen.

The awarding of twelve D.'s and eighteen D. C.'s marked the close of one of the most successful seasons Davidson
has passed through. The season opened with the heaviest schedule of years, and only five of last year’s D. men
back—two line and three backfield. By September 25, Coaches Fetzer and Kluttz had worked into shape a 150-pound team that
held Washington and Lee 14 to 0, and two weeks later won praise from the Atlanta papers for its excellent
showing against Georgia Tech. Outweighed in every game played, the little Red and Black Machine won 4 games, tied 1,
and lost 3; scored 24 touchdowns to their opponents’ 17. When we look back over the past few months to
find the causes for the season's success, everything points to one reason: the excellent coaching staff. While we are praising
the Varsity, let us not forget those men who helped to make the Varsity what it was, namely, the Scrubs.
Too much cannot be said of these men for their loyal efforts.

The D.'s awarded were:
- Younger, End, first year on team.
- White, L., Tackle, first year on team.
- Savad, Guard, first year on team.
- White, B. N., Center, third year on team.
- Grey, Guard, first year on team.
- McKeithen, Tackle, first year on team.
- Walker, R. B., End, second year on team.
- Keesler, Quarter, third year on team.
- Lawson, Quarter, first year on team.
- Black, Left-half, first year on team.
- Laird, Full-back, third year on team.
- Walker (C.), Right half, third year on team.

The D. C.'s awarded were:
- Miller, Crouch, G. S., Crouch, W. B., Paisley, Dean, Adams, Shaw, Finley, T., King, Law, McKinnon, Copeland, Robson, Ives,
McAlister, Hill, Burns, Fowle, S. R.

ALL-STATE ELEVEN.

In the Sunday edition of the Charlotte News is a line-up of an All-State football team picked by W. C.
Dowd, Jr., sporting editor of that paper. Three Davidson men are given places on this team. Only one other team
in the State, the University, has more than this number. The line-up is as follows:
- End, Homewood, Carolina.
- Tackle, Ramsay, Carolina.
- Guard, R. White, Davidson.
- Center, Land, Carolina.
- Guard, Cawell, Carolina.
- Tackle, Moore, Wake Forest.
- End, Younger, Davidson.
- Quarter, McDonald, Carolina.
- Halfback, Riddick, A. & M.
- Halfback, Black, Davidson.
- Fullback, Parker, Wake Forest.
