Successful Season in Athletics; By Successful Coaching Win in All Departments.

In the realm of athletics, this year Davidson has won for herself a name that those who are in any
way connected with the college may be proud to claim.

FOOTBALL

Under the excellent training and coaching of Coach “Bob” Fetzer, aided by Assistant Coach Harris, a football team was put
out that suffered defeat only once during the season. The first team to feel the heavy onslaught of the Red
and Black machine was the plucky team from Piedmont, which was defeated by a score of 115 to 0. Next
came the ‘Tigers’ from Clemson. After struggling for four quarters, each side retired without having scored. Newberry College was defeated
22 to 7, while Wofford allowed Davidson to pile up a score of 88 while they crossed the Davidson goal
only once. At Charlotte, Citadel lost to Davidson by a score of 16 to 0. Then came the mighty struggle
with the Blue and White eleven from Chapel Hill, at Winston. For half the game, Carolina was held without scoring,
while Davidson gained a field goal, but in the last half, the University put two men across the goal line
and secured a field goal, while the Davidson team was held without further scoring. Next came the game with the
University of South Carolina, in which the Red and Black machine won 13 to 7. Closing the season on Thanksgiving,
Davidson won from Wake Forest by the close score of 7 to 6. The total number of points scored against
opponents was 264 to opponents’ 43.

VICTORIES IN BASEBALL

The story in baseball this Spring is almost the same. Coach “Bill” Fetzer has lived up to his reputation as
a baseball coach by putting out a winning team. The first game was a victory over Elon College by a
score of 11 to 1. Then Weaver defeated the Red and Black by a count of 8 to 5. Wofford
was next defeated, 7 to 1; Carolina won by the score of 7 to 3. Next came the Charlotte team
of the Carolina League, which was defeated to the tune of 9 to 7. Richmond College lost to Davidson 7
to 1; so did Wofford in her second game, 5 to 3. Furman defeated Davidson by the close count of
3 to 2. Presbyterian College of South Carolina lost 16 to 0. Then came two games with the South Carolina
“Gamecocks,” which were divided evenly. Charlotte then took a game by the count of 4 to 1. The University of
Georgia was defeated at Charlotte 9 to 4. Next, the series with South Carolina was decided in favor of Davidson
by a score of 7 to 4. Wake Forest then took one 6 to 2. The season ended Saturday with
a victory over Wofford, which was the third game taken from them this year. During the season, Davidson won 10
out of 16 games.

BASKETBALL

A basketball team was put out that won a name for itself also. Davidson won from Statesville and also two
out of three games with Charlotte. She lost one to Salisbury and Greensboro, and one to Charlotte.

TRACK

Not quite so much interest has been taken in track work, yet Davidson has shown her ability by defeating South
Carolina by a score of 70 to 48 in a recent meet. A return meet will be given to South
Carolina here on the Hill, May 8.

TENNIS

In tennis, Davidson was not defeated during the past year. She won both singles and doubles from Erskine and played
and consequently the cup. In basketball, the Freshmen showed their superiority by winning out after a hard struggle. The track
championship was won by the Senior class.

FOOTBALL

Davidson 115 Piedmont 0
Davidson 0 Clemson 0
Davidson 22 Newberry 7
Davidson 88 Wofford 7
Davidson 16 Citadel 0
Davidson 3 UNC 10
Davidson 13 USC 7
Davidson 7 Wake Forest 6
264 43

BASEBALL

Davidson 11 Elon 1
Davidson 5 Weaver 8
Davidson 7 Wofford 1
Davidson 3 UNC 7
Davidson 9 Charlotte 7
Davidson 7 Richmond 1
Davidson 5 Wofford 3
Davidson 2 Furman 3
Davidson 16 PCSC 0
Davidson 4 USC 7
Davidson 7 USC 4
Davidson 1 Charlotte 4
Davidson 9 U. of Ga. 4
Davidson 2 Wake Forest 6
Davidson 7 USC 4
Davidson 12 Wofford 2
10 6

ALUMNI AND FRIENDS TO AID OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Davidson congregation has generously released me from duties of the pastorate, that I might give my time wholly to
the undertaking of raising funds for the Alumni Gymnasium. My especial work is to try to line up the classes
to give at least $500 each, by which they win places for their numerals on the Founders Plate of the
proposed New Gymnasium, which is to stand midway between Chambers building and Sprunt Athletic Field. If it were practicable to
see all the members of the several classes, I am sure this would be no difficult matter, for the plan
appeals to every loyal classman and alumnus, and many classes would go far beyond $500 in their gifts. But the
classes are scattered from Kennebec to Kenyon and from Canada to South America, so that it is a practical impossibility
to see the individuals, and we must rely, very largely, on correspondence to reach them, and secure their promises. We
are hoping that the coming to you of this issue of “The Davidsonian” will move you to fill in one
of the promise cards which will very soon reach you, if they have not already done so, and mail to
the Financial Agent in the return envelope which is always sent with the cards. Let every man remember that his
subscription sent in means one less man for the Financial Agent to see.

A LETTER FROM DR. MARTIN

To the Alumni:

The College now has the brightest prospect that it has ever had for a gymnasium, and the success of the
plans for it depends on the loyalty and prompt generosity of the Alumni.

THE GREAT NEED

We are now raising a fund of one hundred thousand dollars to add to the resources of the college. About
twenty-five thousand of this is to be put into the Gymnasium, for everyone who knows the great need of our
present gymnasium knows that it is not adequate nor does it fairly represent the standing of our college. The general
Davidson Alumni have never placed on the campus a concrete testimonial of their recognition of the services of the college
to them and of their love and affection for their Alma Mater. Practically every college for men in the South
has such a testimonial in the shape of a building.

PROMPT ACTION NECESSARY

I do not believe Davidson men will be backward in this any longer. Your gifts will now do three things:
(1) Give a permanent worthy and useful expression of your love and loyalty to the college. (2) Will assure a
gymnasium which alumni and undergraduates insist is the most needed building. (3) Will ensure the securing of the whole $100,000
fund—two parties have offered $55,000. We are past the $60,000 mark, and with the $25,000 from the alumni the rest
will come quickly.lay the cornerstone at Commencement 1910, before the greatest gathering of alumni that the college has ever witnessed.
To do this we must have all pledges signed up and enough money in hand to start the work.

SUCCESS IN SIGHT.

It will mean, I feel sure, that we will succeed in this if as many as twenty classes will pledge
$500 or more by May 25, 1915. Some ten classes have, through groups of their members, practically done this, but
we ought to have the pledges signed in an official way to make the matter binding.

INDIVIDUAL ALUMNI.

I am confident that there are individual alumni financially able and sufficiently interested to give personally $500 or $1,000 for
this building, putting their own name on the Founders’ Plate. It would encourage us greatly if they would say so
voluntarily.

WRITE DR. RICHARDS.

Now let every alumnus write to Dr. C. M. Richards, Davidson, N.C., who is financial agent for this fund, and
say what he will do for the cause. Dr. Richards is a member of the class of 1892, and it
goes without saying that his class will rally to him and pledge their quota by Commencement. We must have our
classes in line and I know this is wartime, but the offers have come, and I confidently believe that the
old students are interested to raise the $25,000 for the gymnasium. If every member of a class promises what he
can, the $500 for the class will be made up; and if each of the classes sends this amount, the
gymnasium is assured and the college has $75,000 more of interest-bearing endowment to increase her income and make her more
efficient in a day when efficiency is the only guarantee of success and the only justification of existence for a
college.

Her alumni are the glory of Davidson College. They have done much for her. But there is no building on
her campus which they have put there. There is nothing that symbolizes their loyalty. There ought to be just such
a reminder of their love for the old college as “The Alumni Gymnasium” would at once become.

A subscription from any member of a class can be used to secure other subscriptions from that class. The completed
subscription from any class can be used to influence the subscription of other classes. The point is clearly seen—it is
a subscription from you that we earnestly need for success in this latest undertaking of the college.

Cordially yours,
C. M. Richards.

gymnasium, that God's good people are enough interested in the Christian education of men and in the part this college
is doing to finish out the $100,000. It will take only $15,000 more after the gymnasium fund to finish up
this amount. And what a change it will make. Remember that every class or individual giving $500 or more has
the class numeral or the name placed on the Founders’ Plate as one of the donors of the gymnasium.

Failure will result if we put this off—Success will result if we act now.

W. J. Martin, President.

Invitations have been received from the U.T.S., at Richmond, to the Commencement to be held May 9-12. It is interesting
to note that among the list of graduates appear the names of eleven Davidson men, viz: J. H. Brady, C.
B. Craig, T. K. Currie, A. P. Dickson, M. S. Huske, H. M. McDiarmid, L. B. McCord, A. M. Shields,
T. D. Thomas, W. M. Wolfe.

Many Alumni Organizations Formed

Large Support is Being Given by These Organizations.

The year 1914-15 has been one of great activity among the alumni of Davidson. Beginning with Commencement of last year,
the Alumni Athletic Association was formed and definite plans were made for the improvement of athletic conditions. It was through
the work of this organization that the college was able to secure the very efficient services of Coach “Bob” Fetzer,
with his assistant, Mr. Harris. Both of these men put their very best into training the football team last Fall
and the result of this training can be found in the results of the season, as given in this issue.
It has been by far the best season for football that Davidson has had, and, for this result, credit is
due to the co-operation of the alumni.

When Coach Fetzer found that it would be impossible for him to remain at Davidson during the Spring, on account
of business plans which had developed during the Fall, it was again through the services of certain of the alumni,
co-operating with the college, that “Bill” Fetzer, one of the most famous athletes that Davidson has ever had, was secured
to coach during the Spring. He came and with undeveloped material, has turned out a winning team for the college,
which has piled one victory high upon another. He has been secured for another year and he has already outlined
several plans for the development of athletics on the Hill.

LOCAL ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS.

A number of local associations have been formed in the various cities throughout the South and they report that there
has been a great deal of interest in their meetings. They have been of great assistance in co-operating with the
college in various matters. One of the most helpful features, and one which has been appreciated by every student, has
been the assistance which these local organizations have rendered the various teams and representatives of the college in these cities.
One of the first cities to organize an association was Greenville, S.C., and they have been holding monthly meetings, which
have been well attended. They have had various alumni who were visiting in the city to attend their meetings and
have taken an active interest in all the student activities of the college.

Another association has been formed in Atlanta, and their work can well be shown in the welcome which they gave
to the debating team which visited Atlanta this Spring and won from Emory. They tendered to the team a luncheon
in the Hotel Ansley and created such an interest in the debate, that the large auditorium at Agnes Scott, where
the debate was held, was filled to overflowing with friends of the college. On account of the loyal support of
this association, a football game with Georgia Tech has been scheduled for next Fall, to be played in Atlanta, and
it is also planned to have various other events staged in that city.

A number of the old men have also grouped themselves together in various other places, among them being Washington, D.C.,
where a strong organization is promised, with President Wilson as one of the members. In New York City, Davidson has
a large number of representatives, and under the leadership of Professor Edgar Dawson, of Hunter College, of the City of
New York, it is planned to increase the membership of the association which has already been formed there.

Rev. M. B. McLauchlin, of Effingham, S.C., died on April 5, after an operation, in Florence, S.C.

BACK TO THE OLD CAMPUS MAY 22-26
