The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 10, 1915. No. 9.

On to Winston-Salem, Saturday, November 13 --- Watch Davidson Win

Senior Speaking Plans Have Been Completed
Forty-Eight Seniors Give Orations This Year.

The Senior class, forty-eight strong, is now busily engaged preparing for its annual oratorical exercises, which will be held in
Shearer Hall on Friday and Saturday following Thanksgiving. Of the forty-eight men who speak, twenty-five are members of the Philanthropic
Society, eighteen are members of the Eu- menean Society, and five are non-society men. The program, which presents a varied
array of subjects, is as follows:

FRIDAY AFTERNOON:
M. R. Adams, Statesville, N. C., The Continent of Opportunity.
F. M. Bain (Phi.), Wade, N. C., The Influence of Saracen Learning.
L. A. Bain (Phi.), Wade, N. C., The Reawakening of Russia.
R. H. Bennett (Eu.), Tenn., The Master Aim.
E. H. Bird (Eu.), Hazelhurst, Miss., Evils of War.
J. H. Carson (Phi.), Charlotte, N. C., Ancestral Ideals.
E. G. Clary (Phi.), Mt. Ulla, N.C., Patriotism.
W. C. Copeland (Phi.), Rocky Mount, N. C., Our Country’s Big Job.
H. B. Craig (Phi.), Matthews, N. C., Our Pension System.
L. A. Crawford (Phi.), Greensboro, N. C., America’s Opportunity.
S. M. Crisp (Phi.), Falkland, N. C., North Carolina’s Grand Old Man.
L. G. Edgerton (Eu.), Suffolk, Va., Is It Necessary?

FRIDAY EVENING:
N. P. Farrior (Phi.), Rose Hill, N. C., The Great Lesson of the Present War.
R. G. Finley (Phi.), Wilkesboro, N. C., The Price of Votes for Women.
S. B. Hay (Eu.), Cornelius, N. C., Tolstoi.
Wm. Hollister, Newbern, N. C., The Tottering Turk.
T. M. Hill, Lost Art.
G. B. Hoyt (Eu.), Atlanta, Ga., The Railroad and the Man.
W. A. Johnson (Eu.), Calhoun, Ga., Education Without Walls.
R. H. Jones (Eu.), Greenwood, S. C., Wilson’s Triumph in Diplomacy.
P. H. Knox, Pineville, N. C., World’s Progress.
W. L. Law, Jr. (Eu.), Rock Hill, S. C., Memory.
D. McD. Monroe (Phi.), Manchester, N. C., The Educational Possibilities of the Motion Picture.
H. Morrison (Phi.), Loray, N. C., Taft’s Idea of Universal Peace.

SATURDAY MORNING:
R. W. Morrison (Eu.), Bishopville, S. C., Our Trade With South America.
W. G. Morrison (Eu.), Okolona, Miss., Defects in the Present College Education.
L. A. Mullen (Eu.), Shawnee, Okla., Aristotle and the State.
J. M. McBryde (Phi.), Raleigh, N. C., The South’s Problem.
K. A. McDonald (Phi.), Hope Mills, N. C., Democracy vs. Imperialism.
H. McCormick (Phi.), Manchester, N. C., The Intellectual Stimulus of the War.
Trenton, N.C. A Statesville. (Continued on page 4)

Three Games Played In Class Basket Ball
Sophs Defeat Fresh But Lose to Jrs.---Srs. Defeat Jrs.

During the past week three games in class basketball were staged. On November 4, a fast game was played by
the Sophs and Juniors, in which the Sophs suffered their first defeat by a score of 17 to 15. At
the end of the first half, the score was 14 to 11 in favor of the Juniors. The second half
was much closer, the guarding on both sides being so perfect that neither team had many attempts at goals, and
in reality, only one field goal was made on each side. Barnett, for the Sophs, played an unusually fast game,
and Murray, for the Juniors, added splendid goal shooting to his usual good guarding. The winning goal was thrown by
Young in the last few seconds of play. The line-up is as follows:

Juniors (17) Position Sophs (15)
Young .......... Barnett
Nisbet .......... Sprunt
Forwards
Porter .......... Mountcastle
Center
Keesler .......... Sherrell
Murray .......... Worth
Guards
Referee: Reese ('17).

In the second game of the week, played Monday morning, the Sophs defeated the Fresh in a rather one-sided game
by the score of 23 to 12. The game was not as fast as some of the others played, but
King, for the Sophs, kept up his usual good record for shooting goals. The line-up is as follows:

Sophs (23) Position Fresh (12)
King .......... Hall
Sprunt .......... Nimocks
Forwards
Mountcastle .......... Williamson
Center
Worth .......... McArskill
Sherrell .......... Ports
Guards

In perhaps the fastest and hardest-fought game yet played, the Seniors defeated the Juniors Monday afternoon by the close score
of 16 to 15. The game was hotly contested throughout, and the Seniors carried off the victory with a scant
margin. There were no stars, or rather every man was a star, for each player seemed to put his whole
being into the game with the grim determination to win. In this game also, the winning goal was thrown almost
at the end of the game. Although the Juniors did not win the game, they deserve the highest praise for
the splendid fight they put up against the heavier team, and the fast passing and blocking which they featured. At
the end of the first half, the score was 7 to 6 in favor of the Juniors. The line-up is
as follows:

Seniors (16) Position Juniors (15)
Hoyt .......... Nisbet
Perry .......... Young
Forwards
Dumas .......... Porter
Center
Patton .......... Keesler
Edgerton .......... Murray
Guards

The summary of games is as follows:
Won. Lost. P.Ct
Sophs .......... 4 1 .800
Juniors .......... 2 3 .500
Seniors .......... 2 3 .400
Fresh .......... 2 4 .333

Pres. Currell Promises Davidson the Winner
Athletic Investigation; In Game With Furman
Farther Light Thrown on Cancellation of Carolina Game.

Much interest has been created throughout the South on account of the recentDisclosures of irregularities in athletics at the University
of South Carolina. Rumors which had been circulated have been substantiated in certain cases, according to the statement of President
Currell, of the University, and a thorough investigation is underway to find just how many of the reports are true.
The Clemson Tiger, in a recent issue, just after the Clemson-Carolina game, calls attention to the fact that several men
on the Carolina team had mysteriously appeared just at the proper moment, declaring on their “honor” that they had never
attended college before, and then have developed within a day into finished football players. That the names and pictures of
certain of these men had appeared in Spalding’s Official Football Guide for 1912, as members of a college team, and
yet these self-same men had never attended college, according to their own certificate. By the rule of the University of
South Carolina, which states: “No student who has taken part in an intercollegiate contest of a football or baseball team
of another college or university shall be permitted to become a member of either team of this university during his
first session,” these men were clearly ineligible, and the full disclosures as to the real standing of all the players
are awaited with much interest. Much of this information was already in the hands of the Davidson Athletic Committee, of
which Dr. J. W. McConnell is chairman, but some of the facts are entirely new. It is especially interesting to
the students and alumni of Davidson just at this time on account of the necessity for the recent cancellation of
the game which was scheduled with South Carolina, and would seem to explain the round-about method in which the South
Carolina authorities endeavored to have this game played, when they were not willing to abide by their own contract, signed
on May 10, 1905, over one month after their catalogue was published, which contained the rule quoted above. This contract
specifically states, under Article VI, that “No student who is not a bona fide student of said college shall be
eligible, and must also be eligible under their own respective college athletic rules.” The list which was received from the
University of South Carolina, at the very last minute, contains the names of men who are clearly not eligible, though
never once have the Davidson authorities asked that any one man or men be ruled off; only that the group
as a whole be declared eligible. The failure to stage the game was very much regretted by all the friends
of the two institutions, but when the facts have become known, all lovers of true sport, including many alumni of
the University, have expressed themselves as being glad that the conditions were shown in their true light, which may be
summed up in the refusal of any member of the faculty of the South (Continued on page 4).

Easy Victory for Red and Black by Score of 58 to 13.

Long end runs by C. Walker and Black, and well-executed forward passes which counted for appreciable gains, were the features
of the game Saturday, and, in large measure, account for the 58 to 13 score which the Red and Black
were able to roll up against the Furman eleven. The two touchdowns of the visitors came in the second and
fourth quarters, when the second team had been substituted for the Varsity. Against the Varsity, Furman failed to develop an
offensive which at any time would endanger Davidson's goal. Although scored on freely, Furman put up a plucky defense, often
tackling the Davidson runner when he seemed destined for a touchdown. Davidson, making downs with regularity, punted very little. A
35-yard end run by Black, a line buck by Baird and a recovery of a fumble by Sayad behind the
goal accounts for Davidson's first touchdown. A 25-yard gain through the line and a forward pass, Lawson to Younger, brought
Davidson her second touchdown. Beautiful 30 and 10-yard end runs by C. Walker resulted in two more touchdowns and allowed
the Red and Black to end the first quarter with a 26-0 score.

Second string men were substituted in the second quarter. The fumbling of a punt by McAlister allowed the visitors to
reach Davidson's 10-yard line. A succession of line plays resulted in a touchdown for Furman. A spectacular run of 70
yards by Hill and Dean's line buck of 5 yards accounts for Davidson's only touchdown in the second quarter. The
recovery of a punt by R. Walker behind Furman’s goal and end runs by C. Walker and Black netted three
touchdowns in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, a well-executed forward pass, Jeter to Drake, netted 90 yards for
Furman and gave them a good opportunity to score their second touchdown. King, a Davidson second team man, scored the
last touchdown for Davidson, the final score standing, Davidson 58, Furman 13.

The line-up:
Davidson Position Furman
White, B. .......... Payne Center
Grey ............... Rice Left Guard
McKeithen .......... Gullick Left Tackle
Walker, R.J. ....... Wood Left End
Sayad .............. Rice Right Guard
White, T.L. ........ Farmer Right Tackle
Younger ............ Coleman Right End
Lawson ............. Jeter Quarterback
Walker, C. ......... Drake Right Halfback
Black .............. Ballentine Left Halfback
Laird .............. Moore Fullback

Fifteen minutes, just after supper each night, is this week being devoted to yell practice in Shearer Hall.
