i) The DAVIDSONIAN, December 1, 1915

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
J. P. Williams........Editor-in-Chief
T. J. Mitchell......Managing Editor
P. B. Price........Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford
W. L. Law, Jr.
Reporters
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods
W. A. Dumas
J. B. Woods
L. A. Crawford

MANAGEMENT
J. H. Carson.......Business Manager
W. H. Neal........Assistant Managers
J. C. Paisley

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

THE SEASON.

It was a good finish to a good season. When the team came off the field last Thursday, after a clear-cut victory over Wake Forest, there was the feeling in the minds of all the students, alumni, and friends of the institution, that the record for the football season was one to be proud of and that the men had played well and deserved all praise.

This has been one of the hardest schedules, if not the hardest, that Davidson has ever played. It would easily have been possible to win more games by playing smaller colleges—colleges more nearly the size of Davidson, but not one of the colleges which have been played this year but have had more students than Davidson—and yet we have won four of the eight games played, one has been tied, and one was cancelled. This record shows that the policy which has been pursued has been a wise one and it is well to play these larger games even though the scores be close and there is not always a victory for Davidson.

The season has contained more than the playing of games—for it has been necessary to take a stand for a principle in the matter of legitimate athletics, even with the danger of being misunderstood for a time. Fortunately, later developments have fully justified the position taken by Davidson and there is a widespread feeling of commendation for the cancellation of the game with the University of South Carolina. It was an incident which was regretted by all, but by no one more than by Davidson.

We wish that we could carry in our columns this week the picture of the men who have given everything they have to make Davidson’s team “The Best Coached Team in the South.” It is these men, Coaches Fetzer and Kluttz, who have not only built up one of the best teams that Davidson has ever had, but their work has gone deeper, and cannot be counted only in the record that the team has made. Being true Davidson Alumni, they have succeeded in innumerable ways in strengthening the spirit of clean athletics and the wholesome respect of one man for another. The result has been a team of real men, in every sense of the word, and the training these players have received will not stop with the last game, but will be greater each day as they mix and mingle more with the other students and make plain that sense of “fair play” and a “square deal” which has been with them daily, and which if carried into all of our affairs on the campus, will make them easy to solve.

THE RED AND BLACK IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS

The football season just passed found the Red and Black up to their usual standard and was not only a success from the standpoint of games won, but also from the showing the team made on all occasions. The press and football critics were unanimous in their praises, and Coaches Fetzer and Kluttz are to be congratulated for producing such an efficient machine. Averaging only 156 pounds, it was outweighed in every contest, yet succeeded in finishing the season with a total of 156 points to their opponents’ 102. From the press it won only praises.

“One of the most sensational runs ever seen on the local gridiron (Clem-"Davidson College) was pulled here by Keesler when he received the ball on his own twenty-yard line from a kick-off and ran through the entire Clemson team, being downed on the two-yard line.”—Charlotte News.

“Davidson lived up to the impression that they had created of having a fast and well-developed team. Although outweighed many pounds to the man, they fought the heavier Jacket eleven gamely, only losing out in the second half when their strength began to ebb.”—Reynolds.

“The Davidson bunch impressed everyone with their clean and sportsmanlike manner of playing, the men doing the cleanest tackling seen on Grant field in many seasons. Here's hoping that their relations with Tech will continue in the future.”—Atlanta Journal.

“Georgia Tech defeated Davidson College at Grant field yesterday afternoon but only after the spunky little eleven from North Carolina had held the Jackets scoreless for one-half and thrown the cold fear in 500 loyal rooters that the mix-up was going to end with the gold and white at the raw end of the beef-steak. ... A fumbled punt, the quickness of the Davidson ends and 1 red-shirted man was over the line for a touchdown, the half ending Davidson 7, Tech 0.”—Ward Green.

“The boys from Carolina put up the brand of football which makes college football so blame genuine. Bill Fetzer and DeWitt Kluttz coached Davidson, and from what the Lord, and nobody else sent them, they have whipped into shape one of the best little elevens in the South. They were marvellously fast, the ends getting down under punts like flashes, the line charging hard and the tackles as neat and unswerving as a billy goat's smash. They played clean ball during the whole game.”—The Atlanta Constitution.

“Black broke through the interference and nailed him with a beautiful tackle.”

“When I wrote in advance (in one of the Atlanta papers) that Davidson had a real team, I meant what I said; but that they had the bunch of cleverly trained, extremely speedy and fighting wildcats that they exhibited yesterday, I had no idea. The fact is they outplayed the Jackets at practically every point of the game for one whole half. Their line charged faster than Tech’s, their backs plunged harder, they made fewer mistakes, they dumped better under the tacklers and their tackling was keener, surer, sharper and deadlier. Their play was a delight to every beholder except the most ardent Tech supporters, and even they cordially admitted the prowess and skill of the invaders. For myself, I now fully understand why Washington and Lee was able only to get away with only 4 touchdowns and why it was that Clemson was only lucky enough to get away with a 6-6 tie.”—Heisman.

ROY MOOSE | SOUTHERN Official Photographer RAILWAY for Premier Carrier of the South

Quips & Cranks

Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

W. G. MORRISON

SPECIALS SPECIALS SPECIALS

Twelve second-hand Upright Pianos offered at greatly reduced prices. Makes included are: Stieff, Kranich & Bach, Mason & Hamlin, Barnes & Smith, Lombard, Howards, Ivers & Ponds, Haynes Bros., Kohler & Campbells, Crown, Wing & Sons, and others. The prices range from $150.00 up and the terms are just what you want. Come in at once and see these pianos—you will not be urged to buy.

219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF

The Sanitary Barber Shop Uses Clean Towels, Sharp Razors

STUDENTS: For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING get quotations from Brady Printing Company. We will appreciate your business.

Special invitation to all.

E. R. JENKS, Proprietor V. A. MULLEN, Agent Charlotte, N. C. Established 1842

DAVIDSON COLLEGE Davidson, North Carolina

THOROUGH COURSES Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN SCHLOSS CLOTHES CAN BE SEEN AT Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

WHY! Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them Looking New---6 Suits for $1.00

If you are not a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket at once and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor

SWEATERS BIG, WARM, COZY Good Looking Roll Collars ATHLETIC SWEATER COATS Full Stock Just Received The Commissary No. 2 Watts