The DAVIDSONIAN - VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1915. NO. 18

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

The Civic League had an important meeting in its new hall on Tuesday afternoon.

On Thursday night of this week, the Presbyterian ladies of the town will provide a banquet for the men in the Civic League. The purpose of this banquet is to provide an evening of fellowship for the men of the Presbyterian Church and to discuss plans for attending the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte.

Mrs. Lingle returned Monday from attending the Social Service Conference in Raleigh.

Two cases of la grippe are reported at the home of Professor Grey. One of them is Hugh Grey.

Miss Mary Monroe, of Hickory, N. C., is visiting in the home of Prof. J. M. Douglas this week.

Mr. and Mrs. Houston Johnson went to Charlotte Tuesday to attend the funeral of their cousin, Mrs. Todd, who died from an operation for appendicitis.

Mr. Robert Armour has left for Kannapolis, in this State, where he will take charge of a Ladies’ Furnishing Store.

Mr. Arthur Armour has just completed a fine new barn on his farm.

Mr. George Poole, who was formerly a resident of this city, and who had gone into work at Charlotte, returned home last week with a severe injury. He had gone to the DuPont Powder Works, in Virginia, and there a heavy implement fell from quite a distance on his foot, practically cutting off the toes. Mr. Poole is now at the home of Mr. W. P. Wilson.

Mr. J. M. Beattie will leave next week to establish a new drug store in Charlotte.

Miss Arbuckle, of Waynesboro, Va., who has been visiting in the home of Professor Arbuckle, left Monday.

James Abernethy, '18, left college last week, and does not expect to return this term.

NIGHT SCHOOL ORGANIZED.

On the 26th of January, 1915, a night school was organized by Dr. Arbuckle for the mill children. This school meets every Tuesday and Friday night, for an hour, from 7 to 8 o'clock. The good, solid, old-fashioned subjects, spelling, reading, writing, and arithmetic, are taught. There are three teachers in this school: Miss Maud Vinson and Miss Mary Lafferty, of the town, and T. J. Mitchell, of the college. They all seem much encouraged over the work. Although the school has been open only about two weeks, twenty children attend regularly, and three classes have been organized. This school meets the need that has been felt to exist for some time. The officers are to be congratulated on the good start, and best wishes are extended for the future prosperity of the school.

PLANS FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING ANNOUNCED

The rules and technique of original speech making and the art of oratory will engross the Juniors from now until the first week of March. The class of 1916 has in its ranks many speakers of proven ability, and their speaking exercises this year will doubtless reveal others who possess oratorical ability of no mean order. The entire Junior class of sixty members, with the possible exception of three or four who are irregular in their class standing, will participate in the speaking exercises. On Thursday night, March 4, six Seniors who failed to make their Junior orations at the appointed time, together with any six Juniors who may desire to be placed on the program at that time, will speak. The remaining number of Juniors will be divided into three sections of fourteen each, and one section of twelve, and will be placed on the program by sections as follows: First section, Friday morning; second section, Friday afternoon; third section, Friday evening; fourth section, Saturday morning. Numerous entertainments and social festivities will, as usual, be a salient feature of the occasion. The faculty will receive in honor of the Junior class, probably on Friday evening. The gymnasium team will give an exhibition on Saturday afternoon. Saturday evening, all of the fraternities will receive in honor of their visitors. It is also now practically certain that a Lyceum attraction will be given at that time.

JUNIORS CLOSE SEASON WITH A SPREAD

A most successful season of class football for the Juniors was brought to a close Saturday night when the team and managers of the other teams gathered to celebrate the event with an elaborate spread. Much interest was manifested in the class games this year and the keenest rivalry was felt between the respective classes, each fighting for the championship until the very last. The feed was in every way a success and from reports was enjoyed to the uttermost by all. The affair closed with yells for all the other classes and ended with the class yell of '16. The season closes with a tie for the championship between the Juniors and Sophs. On account of the approaching baseball season and the sickness of several members of the Soph team, the tie will not be played off.

FACULTY NOTES.

Dr. Sentelle left on Wednesday of last week for Greenville, Tenn., in response to a message announcing that his young niece had been severely, perhaps fatally, burned.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, after having been absent from his classroom for a week on account of a severe attack of grippe, is now able to meet his classes.

Prof. J. T. Douglas is suffering from an attack of grippe.

Dr. J. B. Shearer has returned from Charlotte, where he spent a week receiving eye treatment.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was in Salisbury Sunday presenting the cause of the Laymen’s Convention to the churches there.

F. W. and P. B. Price expect to leave for their home in China immediately after Commencement in May. Frank Price will remain in China to teach for a year or two, while his brother will return to college after the summer.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS TO ATTEND CONVENTION

All of the students who can possibly do so are urged to take advantage of the opportunity to attend the Laymen’s Convention inCharlotte on February 16, 17, and 18. On Wednesday, the students are to attend in a body, and it is desired that the Davidson delegation be as large as possible. The registration fee of one dollar will not be charged to any of the students, and they will be admitted to all of the sessions, with a special place reserved for them. Due to the small number of men who agreed to go down on Wednesday morning, a special train could not be arranged. However, if enough students arrange to go in a body at that time, they can make arrangements for a train through the student body officials. All Davidson students are requested to meet at the Second Presbyterian Church on Wednesday morning, immediately after the arrival of the train, and go in a body to the convention hall, where a place will be arranged for them. Mr. Jackson went down to Charlotte Monday to complete the arrangements for the attendance of the Davidson students at the convention and to arrange for sleeping and eating quarters for those who will be present. An arrangement was made whereby the students can get meals and a room at $1.75 per day. For full information on the subject, either Mr. Park, F. P. Williams, F. W. Price, or J. F. Faw may be seen.

PLANS FOR SOPH BANQUET ANNOUNCED

Due to the absence of a number of Sophomores who will make the trip with the Glee Club during the latter part of February, the date for the annual Soph Banquet has been changed to Monday, March 1. Manager Hampton announces that the banquet this year will be held at the Mecklenburg Hotel and that a special train will be secured for the return to Davidson after its conclusion. Quite a number of the Sophs have already signed up, and all of the others who can possibly make arrangements to do so should sign up and attend, since this will be the principal event of the year for the Sophomores, and all of the members of the class should show an active interest in it. Six speakers have been selected by Toastmaster McKay, but since all of them have not definitely accepted, it is impossible to publish the list just now. A class meeting to select representatives from the other classes and from the faculty will be held in a short time.

ALUMNI BANQUET TO BE HELD IN CHARLOTTE

On Wednesday, February 17, at 5:30 p.m., between the afternoon and night sessions of the convention, the Davidson Alumni will hold a banquet at the old Colonial Club rooms in Charlotte. These rooms are located over the Tate-Brown Clothing establishment, at 42 South Tryon Street. The charge per plate will be one dollar. All of the Davidson Alumni, the present Senior class, the college Y. M. C. A. cabinet, and the members of the Student Council are cordially invited to be present. The Davidson Volunteer Band of nineteen members is planning to attend in a body the last two days of the Laymen’s Convention and the State Volunteer Conference which will follow it.

Davidson Quintette Breaks Even In Series Wins In First Game With Charlotte But Loses Second.

FIRST GAME.

Last Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock, the Davidson basketball team met the strong team from the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and defeated them by a count of 37 to 25. The game was hard-fought by both sides throughout. The Davidson boys were in excellent form, and by superior passing and teamwork, they held the lead throughout the game. One of the features of the playing was that it was clean sport; there were very few fouls in the whole game. For Davidson, Hengeveld played a star game at center, while the work of Somerville at forward and Walker at guard was commendable. The work of the whole team was splendid. For Charlotte, Stewart at forward and McClintock at guard starred. This is the second time that the strong team from Charlotte has been defeated this year, and the local team deserves much credit for their work. It was the first game that has been played on the Hill for some time, and it is hoped that there will be some more good ones played here this spring.

Line up:
Davidson. Position. Charlotte.
Hengeveld .......... center .......... Ware
Childs ............... forward .......... Lees
Dowd
Somerville ........ forward .......... Stewart (c)
Reese
Ross
Walker ............ guard .......... McClintock

Summary—Goals, for Davidson: Hengeveld 7, Somerville 6, Childs 3, Reese 2; for Charlotte: Stewart 3, McClintock 3, Ware 1, Wyatt 2, Dowd 1. Umpire, Mr. Ritch; Timekeeper, Coach Fetzer.

DAVIDSON LOSES SECOND GAME.

In a hard-fought game of basketball, Charlotte defeated Davidson Saturday night by the score of 71 to 29, before a large audience in the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. The Charlotte team was determined to get revenge for their defeat last Thursday and used the very best material to be found in the city. The entire game was fast and snappy, and although Charlotte kept the lead, the Red and Black quintette played a hard and steady game until the referee’s whistle ended the contest. The fact that the game was played at night was a great disadvantage to Davidson, as the team has practiced and played entirely by daylight, which accounted for so few goals being made. Davenport and Stewart for Charlotte played star ball, while Reese and Childs played a good game for Davidson. It is hoped that the tie can be played off soon; at present, the place of the contest has not been agreed upon. Those on the team were Somerville, Reese, Childs, Howell, Carson, Hengeveld, and Walker.

On January 18, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Association met with Dr. Lafferty, its president, in Charlotte, and formulated plans for establishing alumni associations at Wilmington, Asheville, Fayetteville, and Greensboro. A member of the faculty, probably the college President, will endeavor to meet with these associations and address them at intervals in order to keep the old students in touch with college affairs.

J. W. Miller, First Class Student Barber. 21 S. Chambers