The DAVIDSONIAN. May 19, 1915

Dress Your Ankles WELL
Interwoven’s the socks that wear well at every wear point--toe, sole, heel, and ankle. Buy the thin sock that is
hole-proof.
M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Dealers in General Merchandise

SCOFIELD'S
44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries, and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON

You're Safe in ordering your new Spring suit from us. You can feel assured that the patterns, fabrics, and models
we are showing this season are ultra in style--- that the workmanship and tailoring that go into our garments are
the highest that can be.
L. A. Mullen
Representing The Storrs-Schaefer Co.

REMEMBER
On Monday morning to put your laundry out, your name on it, and mark it for us.
Charlotte Steam Laundry
W. F. SAYAD, Agt.
7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing

Mr. Maurice D. Manning, Mgr. Stieff Piano Co.,
Dear Sir — Please accept my thanks for the Recital at the Academy of Music last night.
219 S. Tryon St.

Just Received Direct from Broadway
A shipment of Panamas, Straw Hats, Shaw-Knit Hose 25 and 50c.
Armour Bros. & Thompson

What Madam Bianca Randall Thinks of the STIEFF Grand Piano
Truly, it is an instrument of wonderful sweetness of tone, which is so satisfying and essential to accompanists.
THE GRAND PIANO USED AT THE CHAPMAN-ALEXANDER SERVICES IS A STIEFF
Note the sweet tone and wonderful carrying power of this 20th Century Piano, which fills the large auditorium seating over
6,000 people.
STIEFF
Charlotte, N. C., April, 1915
City Stieff Grand Piano which you furnished forms
Sincerely,
(Signed) BIANCA RANDALL
Charlotte, N. C.

Have Your Picture made in your own home, and have it made right.
ROY MOOSE, Photographer, of Greensboro, N. C. does that kind of work.
Wm. E. Williams, Agt.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL

BLUE PENCIL CLUB GIVEN SIGMA UPSILON CHARTER
The Blue Pencil Club, which was organized last January and which has been doing active work all spring, was initiated
into Sigma Upsilon, the National Literary Fraternity, on Monday night, May 12. Mr. W. W. Kerr, a member of the
Odd Number Chapter at the University of North Carolina, and a former student at Davidson, was the representative of the
national organization at the initiation.

The Blue Pencil Club was organized early in the year for the purpose of increasing wide literary interest and encouraging
creative literary ability. The monthly meetings are informally conducted and devoted to mutual discussion of papers, authors, and literary problems.
The Sigma Upsilon National Literary Fraternity which has granted the Davidson Blue Pencil Club a charter was organized by literary
clubs from Sewanee, Vanderbilt, University of Georgia, and Randolph-Macon in 1906. Since then, twelve other chapters have been formed, including
clubs at University of North Carolina, Mississippi, Texas, South Carolina, Alabama, Washington, Trinity, and others. The organization is practically non-secret
and has for its aim the binding together of the college literary clubs in the United States for the sake
of mutual helpfulness. The charter members of the Davidson club are U. S. Alexander, J. E. Faw, G. W. Gignilliat,
J. W. S. Gilchrist, W. A. McIlwaine, F. W. Price, J. P. Williams, F. H. Smith. H. D. Sparrow and
W. G. Somerville have been elected as members from the present Junior Class.

The aim of the Blue Pencil Club is expressed in the following excerpt from its constitution: “The object shall be
to..."Promote effective literary work among the students. Membership shall be based on creative literary ability in its broadest sense."

Last Tuesday night, a most enjoyable feed was given by the new to the old members of the Debating Council.
Ice cream and cake were served in abundance, and much lively talk took place. It was greatly enjoyed by all.

BLUE RIDGE SLIDES SHOWN

Instead of the usual Thursday night meeting, the Y.M.C.A. service of last week was held on Sunday evening at 6:15.
Mr. Norman Johnson spoke on “Blue Ridge and the Summer Conferences,” and illustrated his talk with a number of excellent
stereopticon pictures. Mr. Johnson spoke first of the location of the famous “Robert E. Lee Hall” and gave a glimpse
of the beautiful scenery of the neighborhood. He then showed something of the equipment, including pictures of the “Hall,” both
inside and out, and gave pictures of various groups of student visitors, and also pictures of several speakers of the
coming season. Illustrations were then shown of the baseball diamond, tennis courts, swimming pool, etc., and Johnson spoke of how
hotly the various colleges contested for athletic honors of all kinds. In conclusion, several pictures of college cottages near the
“Hall” were shown, and it was urged that all who can should go to the conferences, June 16-26. The new
Davidson cottage should be filled, and Davidson should keep her place among the Southern delegations.

HIGH SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT

The Commencement exercises of the Davidson Graded School were held in Shearer Hall, Monday night, May 10, and were witnessed
by a large and appreciative gathering of parents and friends. A beautiful little tableau was first given, “The Crowning of
the King and Queen of the Fairies,” followed by an Indian act on the part of the boys, and a
song by the girls of the fourth grade. A very interesting recitation and declamation contest was then held, and all
the contestants did themselves credit. The remainder of the evening was devoted to the exercises of the High School graduating
class. James Foster made the salutatory speech, followed by the class history by Miss Lillian Houston. The class prophecy, which
evoked much mirth, was rendered by Robert Dunn Alexander. The valedictorian, Craighead Young, gave a splendid speech, enjoyed by all.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking
Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music. 213 North Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.
C.

SPRING IS COMING The time to get your REPAIR WORK AND BUILDING DONE C. B. MOONEY General Contractor

SENIORS: For Engraved Cards or most reasonable prices on Quality Printing, get quotations from BRADY PRINTING COMPANY STATESVILLE, N. C.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Visit the New Barber Shop E.R. JENKS - Proprietor

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL for FIRE INSURANCE

Diplomas were then given, and prizes and medals awarded. For recitation, Miss Mamie Johnson won the medal; Carl Cathy took
the trophy for declamation, thus winning the declamation medal for two consecutive years. The exercises were splendid and marked the
close of another year's successful work of the Davidson Graded School.

FROM LIBRARY REPORT, YEAR ENDING MAY 16, 1915

Daily papers received, 12; weekly and religious papers, 14; magazines (monthly, weekly, and quarterly), 67; users of the library, 305;
circulation (for two weeks or less), 6,494; average number per user, 21 1-3; debating material furnished High Schools, 18; books
donated and catalogued, 31; books donated and not catalogued, 73; books bought, 336; total additions, 440; books reported 1914, 24,266;
books on hand May 1915, 24,706.

The members of the Magazine Staff will have their Annual “Feed” next Thursday night.
