> DAVIDSON VICTORIOUS (Continued from page 1) Batteries: Groome, Lawson, Hengeveld and Alford for Davidson; Porythress, Sorrel and Moorefield for Elon. Two-base hits, Alford (2), Christenbury; three-base hits, Stough, Ansley, Moorefield; struck out, by Groome 9, by Lawson 1, by Porythress 1, by Sorrell 4; base on balls, Lawson 1, Sorrell 2; umpires, Crayton and Bailey.

WEEK GAMES OF THE All Davidson fans were very pleasantly surprised to learn that an extra ball game will be played on the Hill this week. Manager Shaw has obtained a date with Weaver College for Thursday afternoon. This team is now on a ten-day trip playing games with Oak Ridge, Guilford and other teams of equal strength. “Ding” Bell, a '13 man and a star pitcher while here, is coaching the Weaver team, and reports have it that he has a strong aggregation under his wing. A large number of fans from Concord are expected over to view the game since both Coach Bell and Coach Fetzer are from Concord.

Next Saturday will bring the second scheduled baseball contest of the season. The opponent met will be Horner Military Institute, a preparatory school in Charlotte. Although this school has a student body of only about seventy-five men, the report is given out that Horner has an exceptionally strong team this year. Their greatest strength lies in the pitching staff. The batting of the team is also far above the average and in fact measures up to a fine standard. The squad they bring with them will probably number about twelve. This team has now been in training for over a month under Coach Natress, and is no doubt in fine form. They will come down on the 12:50 train from Charlotte and return that night.

Much to the disappointment of all, the game booked with the Buffalo Feds has been cancelled. The game was to have been played in Charlotte, but since that city is in organized baseball and the Federals are fighting organized ball, the Charlotte management felt that they would be aiding the Federals if they gave part of the gate receipts to Buffalo, therefore they decided not to allow the game to be played on their field.

GYM TEAM TRIP The Gym Team has been putting in some hard practice since Christmas and has finally arranged for a trip to Lenoir on March 19. The team is to go under the auspices of the Lyceum Bureau at Lenoir and are to be entertained at the homes of the good people of the city. The Orchestra and Glee Club have made several very successful trips to Lenoir, and it is expected accordingly that the Gym Team exhibition will be well attended.

NEW DEBATING COUNCIL At a recent meeting of the new debating council the officers for the next year, T. D. Sparrow, chairman, and J. Patton, manager, were elected. The council is busy with plans for some good debates for next year. The new members of the council from the two societies are: Neal, from the Philanthropic; P. B. Price and Hagood, from the Eumenean, good debaters who should make a substantial addition to the council. Although as yet nothing definite can be known, the signs are favorable for a debate with Trinity and Washington and Lee next year. Debates will be arranged with these two colleges or with some other colleges of Virginia, North Carolina or Georgia. Under our three-year contract we will of course have a debate with Clemson next year. The men on the teams have been working hard for the past few weeks and have nearly completed their arguments, and prospects are good for victories over Clemson at Rock Hill next Monday (April 5) and Emory at Agnes Scott the following Monday.

The DAVIDSONIAN. March 31, 1915

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATIONS After several delays the preliminaries of the Soph-Fresh Declamation Contest were held last Friday night in the Eumenean and Philanthropic halls. The contestants all had their selections up in good shape and were very much enjoyed. In the Eumenean Society reps were won by I. A. Chambliss, with "Parhassius;" G. C. Bellingrath, with "Stars and Stripes;" and W. Y. Sayad, with "The Tale of a Tell-tale Heart." Those winning in the Philanthropic Society were Wm. Cumming, with "The End of the Arena Scene;" J. B. Mallard, with "The Unknown Speaker;" and J. Phames, with "The True Grandeur of Nations." The contestants were: Eumenean, H. K. Aiken, L. K. Boggs, A. R. Craig, W. I. Douglas, W. G. Hamphrey, E. A. Hamilton, S. I. Hunter, W. C. Frierson, R. W. McKay, W. M. McIntosh, J. R. Morton, P. B. Price, F. Hagood, J. R. Woods; Philanthropic, W. G. Craig, C. E. Rankin, R. E. Alford, J. L. McBride, J. W. Clark, W. J. Knox, G. A. McDonald. Owing to previous engagements, members of the faculty were unable to serve as judges, so Seniors served. The following were elected by the contestants: W. A. Dumas, W. A. McIlwaine, G. W. Gignilliat in the Eumenean Society, and J. A. Carriker, J. C. Harper, and C. H. Rowan in the Philanthropic.Society, Quite a large crowd was assembled at Shearer Hall Monday night to witness the finals of this contest. The contestants all showed much skill in delivering their selections, indicating that there is much good material in the two classes represented. The medal offered by the Mamenean Society was won by L. A. Chambliss of Chattanooga, Tenn., with his excellent rendition of "Parhasseus." J. A. Thames, of Wilmington, N.C., was the winner of the Philanthropic medal. His selection was "True Grandeur of a Nation." The other contestants and their selections were: W. Y. Savad, "Confessions of a Murderer"; G. C. Bellingrath, "Stars and Stripes"; W. C. Cumming, "Riot of the Arena Scenes"; J. B. Mallard, "The Unknown Speaker." The judges of the occasion were Drs. J. L. Douglas, W. M. Douglas, J. M. McConnell, and Richards.

COMING ESSAY AND FICTION CONTESTS.
The time is approaching for the Essayist and Fiction Medal contests. This year a new plan will be tried in awarding the first of these. Heretofore each society has awarded a medal to the best essayist among its members. This year the two societies have decided to give a medal jointly. The rules for awarding the Fiction Medal will be the same that have prevailed in previous years. The length of each essay is to be between 1,500 and 3,000 words. U.S. Alexander, as editor-in-chief of the Magazine, is ex-officio chairman of the committee on fiction, and will receive all articles for the fiction contest. G. W. Gignilliat is chairman of the committee on essays in the Eumenean Society, and all men in the Eumenean Society competing in this contest will hand in their articles to him. All articles, whether fiction or essay, must be handed in by April 24.

DR. MARTIN GOES TO NEW YORK SOON
Dr. Martin expects to leave for New York next week, where he will help Professor Dawson, of Hunter College, to organize an Alumni Association in New York City. He has received an invitation from Professor Dawson to help him organize an Alumni Association, and if they can carry out the plans they have in view, an Alumni Association in New York City will be formed that will equal any that has ever been organized. A goodly number of Alumni Associations have been organized in the different States and it is a source of help that the college would find it hard to do without.

Ratch- Prescriptions A Specialty
White Drug Company, Incorporated
Complete line of Stationery, Drinks, Cigars, Tobaccoes
Agents for Norris Exquisite Candies
The Rexall Store

$8.69 Was the average daily profit of 344 college and university men during last summer vacation. We can give you full proof of the $8.69 daily profit. We are going to settle the question of college expenses by going into the same vacation work and can place a few Davidson men with us who can qualify and will see us promptly for information at A. S. Cummins, Henderson Hotel

Hotel Clayton
The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.
EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

We are always glad to see you. See us for Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars and Drinks
Prescriptions Carefully Compounded
Davidson Drug Co.

JETTON Drug Store is the place for the best Soda Drinks, Cigars, Cigarettes, and a full assortment of Luyler’s Candy

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

EXPERIENCE TEACHES
That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite summer sport. Equipment that’s just a little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.
Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field
Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements