The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Plans Are Made For Debate at Rock Hill
Special Train For Wofford Game and Clemson Debate.

Next Monday is to be Davidson day in Rock Hill, S.C., if the plans of those who have charge of
affairs are successful. With a baseball game scheduled there for Monday afternoon with Wofford College, and also a debate that
night with Clemson College, those who take the trip will be sure of a good time and will feel that
the time was well spent. Manager Shaw spent last Monday in Rock Hill completing arrangements for the baseball game with
Wofford. Wofford has a strong team this year, as usual, and the Davidson team will need the backing of every
student who can possibly be there. The lineup for Davidson has not been decided upon as yet, but from the
material that Coach Fetzer has to select from, everyone can rest assured that he will put up the very best,
and the prospects for a hotly contested game are good.

Monday night at 8:30, in the auditorium of Winthrop College, Davidson will meet Clemson in an intercollegiate debate. The question
for debate is: “Resolved, That foreign immigration into the United States should be further restricted by the imposition of the
literacy test.” The affirmative will be upheld by U.S. Alexander and C.E.T. Rowan, of Davidson, while the negative will be
upheld by D.B. Bolger and D.I. Swinehart. Those who have kindly consented to act as judges are Messrs. S.M. Lewis
and J.L. Glenn, of Chester, S.C.; C.E. Spencer, of Yorkville; A.B. Lodge of Gaffney, and J. Bowen Kennedy, of Clinton,
S.C. The Davidson team has been working hard for some time and the chances are that there will be a
spirited debate between the two teams. Every student who possibly can should be there to back up the team from
Davidson.

The Southern Railway has granted a special rate of $1.80 for the round trip to Rock Hill and back. This
rate will go into effect Saturday, so that any who wish to go down then can do so. A special
train will leave Rock Hill that night after the debate and will come straight through to Davidson. However, to get
this special train there must be a guarantee that a hundred and fifty people will come back on it that
night. This means that about half of the student body will have to go before this train can be secured,
but it is hoped that there will be no difficulty in getting the required number, for it is a good
chance to see the Davidson team in real action and also to hear the debate with Clemson, which will be
the first to be held this year. Those going will leave Davidson on the early morning train and have a
wait of about an hour in Charlotte before the train leaves for Rock Hill, where they will arrive about noon,
in ample time for the game. It is not certain yet just what hour the special train will leave Rock
Hill, but there will be plenty of time to hear the debate.

The Book Lovers Club held their annual meeting Friday night. They were entertained by Miss Mamie Withers. Those present were
the members, their husbands, and the teachers of the graded schools. Dr. Harding delivered the annual address, a discourse on
Greek Drama. Later charades were played. Delightful refreshments, consisting of salad, sandwiches, and crackers, were served. Miss Withers was assisted
in entertaining by her mother.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MARCH 31, 1915.

Football Schedule For 1915 Announced
Davidson to Start Season With Some Hard Games.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

Mr. Sam Poole, who has been visiting at the home of his uncle, Mr. J.B. Reid, has returned to New
York to re-enlist in the Navy.

SCHEDULE:
Sept. 25 - Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 2 - Clemson at Clemson, S.C.
Oct. 9 - Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
Oct. 16 - Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 23 - Roanoke College at Winston-Salem.
Oct. 30 - Open.
Nov. 6 - Furman at Davidson.
Nov. 11 - North Carolina at Winston-Salem.
Nov. 25 - Wake Forest at Charlotte.

Mrs. A.M. Cathey spent last week in Charlotte visiting relatives.

The Book Lovers’ Club was delightfully entertained by Mrs. Withers, at which Dr. Harding gave a lecture that was thoroughly
enjoyed.

Spencer Cranford has taken charge of his father’s store since he has become postmaster.

Mrs. Foster and Mrs. I.R. Smith were both very ill last week, but have improved in the last few days.

After some delay, due to the canceling of one game and the difficulty of the managers of the teams concerned
in agreeing upon the place at which several games should be staged, the football schedule for the season, except for
one date, namely, October 30, has been completed. To the contract for each of the games as scheduled above, Manager
Sprunt has attached his name and their execution will be placed in the hands of the Red and Black Machine
from next fall to meet its rivals. At a glance, one can see that the schedule for next fall is
a formidable one, stronger, perhaps, than the one for last season. The first three games, one with a team which
has not before appeared on Davidson's schedule, are with strong teams.

The Civic League had a called meeting last Monday to discuss the furnishing of the new hall.

The Women’s Missionary Society will meet at the Civic Hall.League hall at 4 p.m. Thursday. Teams—teams that have contended for
All Southern colors. This group of Dr. Martin went to Oak Grove San [umnes. The game will be played on
foreign soil, the Great at Lexington, the hometown of the renowned Stonewall Jackson. Mrs. Brenizer spent Saturday at Davidson with
her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Harding. Mrs. Harding returned to Charlotte with her for a visit. Barring North Carolina and
Wake Forest, which come near the close of the season, the rest of the schedule will not be as familiar.
On Sunday, Dr. Lingle spoke at Brawley School House where some of the college students have a Sunday school. Davidson
defeated Wofford last season with a big score. The game with Furman was canceled but comparative scores showed Davidson to
be the stronger team. Wake Forest defeated Roanoke College last fall, hence comparative scores would give Davidson an edge on
the Virginia team. Of the relative strength of Carolina and Wake Forest, all are acquainted, and any prophecy as to
results will be deferred to a later date.

The Boys Missionary Band will meet at Mrs. Lingle’s at 6:30 p.m. Saturday. Dr. Lingle is to give an address
at the Commencement of Rowan County School on April 1.

Mr. Norman Johnson presided over the triangular high school debate which was held here last week and won by Dixie.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE.

One of the results of the Charlotte Laymen's Convention is the forming of a Brotherhood among the men of the
Presbyterian church. The officers elected are as follows: President, Mr. F.L. Jackson; Vice-President, Mr. C.E. Grey; Secretary, Dr. H.B. Arbuckle;
Treasurer, Mr. H.J. Brown. The Brotherhood proposes to hold quarterly meetings for all men of the Presbyterian church. A branch
of the Brotherhood is a Men's Bible class, which meets every Sunday morning at 9:45. Mr. W.H. Thomson is President
of this; Mr. Reed Cranford, Secretary; and Mr. Hugh McBride, Treasurer. The Brotherhood has formed three committees: Dr. T.W. Lingle
is chairman of the Relief Committee, Dr. Arbuckle of the Membership Committee, and Dr. A. Currie of the Social Committee.

H.S. Morgan was in Charlotte for a visit of a few days during the last week.

NO. 24 Davidson Victorious Over Elon College Red and Black Team Swamps Elon by 10 to 1 Score.

The baseball season opened on Sprunt Athletic Field with a victory for the Varsity over Elon College, by the overwhelming
score of ten to one. The game proved that Davidson has a baseball team to be proud of. Groome started
the game for the Varsity on the mound and pitched fine ball. He allowed the visitors only three hits during
the six innings that he twirled and did not give a single base on balls. Poythress, who started the game
for Elon, was driven from the rubber in the second inning and was replaced by Sorrell, who succeeded in holding
the Davidson sluggers but a shade better. The Varsity seemed to have succeeded in getting their optics on the horsehide
quite early in the season, since they obtained fourteen hits for a total of twenty-one bases. Christenbury hit the first
ball pitched for a single and kept his eye on the pill through the entire game, obtaining three hits out
of five times up. Captain Alford led the hitters for the day. He took five trips to the plate and
smashed out four hits, two of them being good for a couple of sacks. Moorefield was the visitor's best man
with the willow, securing two of the four hits that were registered to Elon's credit. The infield worked like a
bunch of big leaguers. Their teamwork was splendid, and they fielded like a streak throughout the entire game. Lawson replaced
Groome in the seventh and allowed only one hit in two innings. He was relieved by Hengerveld in the ninth
and he in turn upheld the run of the preceding twirlers. Elon's only run came in the second inning, with
two men down, when Harwood singled and went to third on Stough's failure to receive Groome’s throw to first. He
scored later on Somerville’s error of Bailes's fly. Davidson's runs came in the first, second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, and
eighth.

Box score:

ELON COLLEGE
Moorefield, c
Kinch, ss
Poythress, p
Crabtree, 3b
Klapp, rf
Watson, 2b
Harwood, 1b
Rinley, lf
Stevenson, cf
Sorrell, p
Total

DAVIDSON
Christenbury, cf
Walker, cf
Keesler, cf
Alford, c
Stough, 1b
Saunders, 2b
Black, 3b
Brown, rf
Hughes, rf
Ansley, lf
Somerville, ss
Groome, p
Lawson, p
Hengerveld, p
Total

Score by innings:
Davidson
Elon

(Continued on page one)
