2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford

REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods
W. A. Dumas

MANAGEMENT
J. H. Carson...... Business Manager
Assistant Managers.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

A WEEK OF SELF-EXAMINATION.

One of the greatest religious needs of Davidson College is not that the college directory shall be found, name by name, on the church rolls throughout the South, though this is a goal to be reached, if it is at all possible. With very few exceptions, every man is technically a member of some church and a great cry would be raised if the claim should be made that the college was not a Christian institution. In perfect frankness, we must say that church membership among a large number of the men on the campus does not carry with it the duties and responsibilities which should be a requisite of church connection. A great number are seemingly members simply because it is considered the “proper” thing and because parents made it understood that church membership was expected. And without minimizing the importance and value of church membership for everyone, yet from one point of organization and efficiency in the work of the church, we do say that it would be far better if those who are not willing to properly wear the badge of Christianity, should step aside and allow the work to go ahead without their dead weight or possibly their active negative influence. Nothing is so discouraging as a great body of drones who only block progress and efficiency.

From the standpoint of the individual, this passive indifference is an attitude which, if cultivated, will be a menace throughout life. A rare opportunity is offered to every man on the campus to show his colors during this week. Davidson is extremely fortunate in being able to secure Dr. Chapman and his valuable co-workers, who will bring a message which will undoubtedly burn deep into our very lives and compel a close self-examination. What will be the result of this examination? Will we be willing to go on with a “passive indifference” or exerting a “negative influence,” or will we show our true colors and offer ourselves for that service which may come to hand and determine to make our lives more nearly what they should be?

“Today” is a period of great events, and small things have no place in our lives. Nations are changing overnight and Christianity is being tested as never before. Thinking heathen nations, without realizing that Christianity is a matter of personal decision and not national belief, are questioning why it is...

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 13, 1915

R. H. DUNN
Interior Decorating Headquarters
Charlotte, N. C.
For Davidson Men

ROY MOOSE
Official Photographer
“Quips & Cranks” will be here on October 11, 12, 13, 14. If you wish any photographic work done, see
W. G. MORRISON
No. 2 Watts

QUALITY FIRST
Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.
219 S. Tryon St.
STIEFF

Tate’s Barber Shop
STUDENTS: For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING get quotations from BradyPrinting Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

It is possible for so-called “Christian” nations to engage in such a war as is now in progress. Every student should show his right to be called a “man” by standing squarely for the best and by being of service in the work to be done, thus making it clearly evident that he is a member of the organized church. A spirit of loyalty to those who have come to Davidson with this message, of co-operation with those who are caring for the details of the meetings, and of thorough self-examination, with the thought of truly living by those standards which each church member has promised to follow—these things should characterize this most important week in the religious life of the college.

CAMPUS ITEMS.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The furniture for the Y. M. C. A. Social Center, which was ordered in the middle of August and which was unexpectedly delayed, is now arriving. The first shipment, consisting of a large davenport and several rockers, has been received, and it is expected that the remaining shipments will be on hand in a few days.

* * *

The windows in the lower floor of the Y. M. C. A. building have been recently screened and the goals have been adjusted and painted the regulation color in preparation for the approaching class contests.

* * *

It might be of interest to the student body to recall some of our past football scores. In 1909 Davidson had an exceptionally strong team, and made an enviable record as can be easily seen from the following:

Davidson 10 vs. A. & M. 0;
Davidson 0 vs. U. of Va. 17;
Davidson 5 vs. Clemson 17;
Davidson 0 vs. U. Ga. 6;
Davidson 6 vs. Washington and Lee 18;
Davidson 29 vs. U. of S. C. 5;
Davidson 6 vs. Navy 45;
Davidson 8 vs. V. M. I. 10.

It will be noted in the above that only five points were scored against Davidson.

* * *

Charlotte, N. C.
Established 1842
Special Attention to Davidson Men

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Davidson, North Carolina

THOROUGH COURSES
Well Equipped Laboratories

STATEMENT
Of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc., Required by the Act of August 24, 1912, of The Davidsonian, published weekly at Davidson, N. C., for October 1, 1915. Editor, J. P. Williams, Davidson, N. C.; Managing Editor, T. J. Mitchell, Davidson, N. C.; Business Manager, J. H. Carson, Davidson, N. C.; Publisher, Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., Charlotte, N. C.; Owners, Students of Davidson College; Known bondholders, mortgages, and other security holders, holding 1 percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities: None.

J. H. Carson, Manager.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 29th day of September, 1915.
W. H. Thompson.

Florsheim Shoes, Hole-proof Hosiery
GENTS’ FURNISHING
Furniture, Druggets, Rugs, Etc.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

LOOK! 6 for $1
If you want a nice fall suit, let him order it and he will press it four months FREE OF CHARGE

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
Back of Meat Market

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK

Phi. Society.
October 16—Debate—Affirmative: Cooper, Morton, T. N., Finley, T. A., Alexander, Neal, W. H.
Negative: Conoly, Reese, Knox, Rourke.

October 18—Declamations and Orations: Bullock, Stone, R. H., Henderson, McNeill, Farrior, Cumming, Davis, Nisbet, Ormand, McBryde, J. M., Monroe, C. F.

Eu. Society.
October 16—Debate—Affirmative: Morton, J. R., Fountain, W. M., George, Morrison, R. W.
Negative: Price, P. B., Frierson, Gilbert, Hay.

October 18—Declamations and Orations: Humphrey, Hunter, S. L., Good, T. F., Hall, W. A., Harrington, Savad, Williams, J. T., Smith, F. H., Sommerville.

If you want your suit done up-to-date let Alexander do it.

Representatives:
Leslie Patterson, 30 R. W.
C. Copeland, 14 Ch.
W. C. Roerk, 67 Ch.