The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick........ Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

REPORTERS’ STAFF:
D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Lisle Law
K. H. Hamilton
Y. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
D. V. Hudson
P. B. Price

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

CO-OPERATIVE IMPROVEMENT

Mr. Nolen brought to many of us in his public address here last Friday night the possibilities of the Davidson campus from a landscape point of view, as we had never seen them before. His lecture was made up largely of a description of landscape beautifying in parks and other colleges, but his few words about our campus and buildings showed us that a small outlay with careful planning would work wonderful improvements. Davidson men and Davidson friends will look forward with interest to a report of his general plan for improvement, and the details also which he thinks should be effected. Mr. Nolen laid prime emphasis upon the necessity of looking far ahead and making a careful plan which would be carefully followed later, although perhaps slowly. Only in this way can our already beautiful campus be made more beautiful, and the future development of the college be symmetrical and effective.

Do we have a part in this plan? Most assuredly, for the co-operation of every Davidson man in keeping up the enthusiasm for improvements, in interesting alumni in the new projects and in keeping the campus we now have clean and attractive, will mean as much to Davidson as anything Mr. Nolen is going to do for us.

BRAIN AND BRAWN

Two contests will begin within the next week which should claim the interest of nearly every man. The class football games will soon begin and the preliminaries for the spring debate will commence next Monday. It is natural to consider one a contest of brawn and the other a contest of brain, while truly brain and brawn play a part in each. Football brawn is worth little nowadays without football brains, and the speaker without physical energy and fire in addition to brain power is equally ineffective. Each contest will call forth a large number of participants, and the more the better. For now is the time when a weak player or weak speaker has a chance to improve, and may win a laurel that will spur him to still further effort.

To the next year Y. M. C. A. officers who were elected at the last meeting we offer our hearty congratulations and earnest wishes that their administration may be one of success and blessing.

The Lost and Found Bureau is for you—use it.

We are looking for a string of basketball victories this week.

The DAVIDSONIAN.

January 20, 1915

ROLLER SKATING

While no college student has the temptation to get out his roller skates and exercise upon the sidewalks, yet we cannot but voice a protest, in behalf of the children in the town, against the town law forbidding roller skating on the cement walks. In towns and cities ten times the size of Davidson, cities well governed in every respect, we have often seen boys and girls skating on the walks in the residential and even business sections. At present only the small walk in front of the Presbyterian church is allowed the children for this purpose, while there are long stretches of cement in the ends of the town on which pedestrians are seldom seen, and where such an innocent and enjoyable pastime would bring pleasure to dozens. If interruption of passers-by is made the excuse, a far more justifiable law would be one forbidding students to run to the train because they might knock down somebody! We hope that the town authorities will soon revoke this rule, and grant the children the joy of skating for a little more than the distance of ten feet.

AN EDITORIAL REFLECTION
(With Apologies to “Uncle Walt”)

I'm back from a trip at a ten-second rate through some colleges and schools of the Old North State. I missed fifteen classes and was off for five days, but I've got some new ideas about ours and their ways. I went on some business, but had a little book, and jotted down ideas wherever I'd look; what the editors do in the other newspapers, and other college traditions and manners and capers. I asked about teams and student body “pep,” the Y. M. C. A's and the faculty rep. “Carolina” has acres and buildings and men and literary geniuses that wield a fluent pen. A. & M. has teams that are mighty hard to beat. Wake Forest has a good “Mag” and Doctor Poteat. Trinity’s laid out with money and care, and has more than any the “university air.” Elon has a gym and a bunch of jolly guys that make a fine show for a college ofits size. You may think that I'm coming to Davidson no more! Nay. I love this old place as I never did before. Some beat us on equipment and athletic rep, but here's to old Davidson with its unbeaten “pep.” We are proud of our history and proud that it is spoken of Davidson loyalty. “It's always unbroken.” We're proud of the past and the victories won, and working toward a college to be second to none. There are many other things that we aim to reach, but I'm not going to start in right now just to preach. Of course, I was at some girls' colleges too, but they're in a class of their own, so I'm through.

Headline: “Congress Delays Shipping Bill.” May the “shipping bills” be few and far between here this spring.

THREE NEW MATRICULATES.

Three new men have matriculated this term: C. K. Schurar, of Rock Hill; J. Groom, of Greensboro, N. C.; and T. D. Wade, of Greenwood, S. C. Four of the old students who have come back this term are F. L. Alford of Chipley, Fla.; R. W. Morrison, of Bishopville, S. C.; G. Foster and L. Christenbury, of the town.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.

The Literary Society schedule for Saturday, January 22, is as follows:

Philanthropic Society — Affirmative: Cumming, Wooten, Clark, Stough, and Carter. Negative: Thames, Nisbet, and McDonald.

Eumenean Society — Affirmative: Shirley, Saunders, Savad, and Thomas. Negative: Patrick, L. P. Smith, Sprunt, and Somerville.

Declamations and Orations — Philanthropic Society: Scar Richardson, Finley, T. A. Davis, and Rankin. Eumenean Society: Thompson, Toney, Whiteside, Woods, J. B., Woods, J. R., Williams, J. T., and Rowland.

J. E. Carter, of the Senior class, was operated on for appendicitis last Wednesday. He returned to college after Christmas but was unable to remain, and on last Monday left for Greensboro, where he entered St. Leo's hospital for the operation. Word has been received that the operation was very successful and that the patient is doing well. It is hoped that Mr. Carter will soon be able to be on the campus again.

Those who complain of the high prices now and the rise of flour to $4 a bag may find consolation in the fact that times have been worse. An old citizen of Davidson recalls conditions in 1880 when flour was $6 a bag, and in 1883 when bacon was 26 cents a pound.

J. W. McConnell entertained Dr. J. L. Douglas, of the faculty, at his home last week on the occasion of his thirty-seventh birthday.

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

Five delightful parties were given during the holidays which were very much enjoyed by the girls and boys. The entertainments were given by Miss Maude Vinson, Mrs. Withers, the Misses Potts, Dr. and Mrs. Richards, and Mrs. Martin. Several girls returned home from college and together with the boys who did not leave here for Christmas had a very jolly time.

A. S. McNeill, whose home is in Orange, Tex., was compelled to enter the hospital at Charlotte last week for an operation for appendicitis. He had an acute attack the first part of last week which necessitated an immediate operation, and under the care of Dr. Martin, he was carried to the hospital. It is reported that he is recovering rapidly and should soon be able to resume his work.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. Howland, 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

Cure That Cold With Coble’s Croup and Pneumonia Cure. For Sale by The Davidson Drug Company.

Roland Brown (ex '15), who is now attending Southwestern Presbyterian University in Clarksville, Tenn., visited friends in Davidson last week.

Rev. J. C. Shive, of Wilson, N.C., was on the Hill last Friday conferring with President Martin on important business.

We hope to print an account of the new and live Alumni Association recently formed at Greenville, S. C., in the next issue.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

SAVE MONEY
We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The swellest styles of the season. See us before you buy.
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

If it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE S. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy. EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.
S. A. ELLIOTT
Next door to White Drug Co.