The DAVIDSONIAN. February 17, 1915

CAMPUS NOTES.

W. G. Somerville, president-elect of the Y. M. C. A., has gone to Chapel Hill to attend the meeting of the Association being held there.

Tom Misenheimer is still sick at his home in Charlotte.

Ed. Carter returned to the Hill last Tuesday after undergoing a successful operation for appendicitis at St. Leo's Hospital, Greensboro.

Stuart Gilchrist has left for his home in Charlotte on account of sickness.

P. W. DuBose ('14), now attending the Seminary at Columbia, was on the Hill for a few days last week visiting friends.

The Sunday morning Bible study classes are now studying and discussing various phases of mission work as planned by the Y. M. C. A. officers.

As is customary, the next issue of the college magazine (March) will be entirely a Sophomore number. Only work done by Sophs will be included in this issue.

The movies on the Hill on Tuesday and Friday nights are now being operated by J. R. Jones and L. P. Smith, two of the students.

Any alumnus wishing to subscribe to The Davidsonian may leave his subscription at the Davidson booth at the Convention headquarters.

McCaskill is in the Infirmary with a bad throat.

Grippe has brought down another victim, L. Crawford. He has taken up his abode at the Infirmary for a few days.

F. M. Mitchell, who has been down with the grippe for several days, is on the road to improvement.

CHANGE MADE IN JUNIOR SPEAKING PLANS

The program in detail for the Junior Oratorical exercises has been perfected. Only one slight change in the general order of exercises as published last week has been made. There will be no speaking exercises Friday morning, hence the last sections of speakers will appear on the program Saturday afternoon instead of Saturday morning.

COACH FETZER RECEIVES PRESENT

Coach Fetzer has been wearing one of his old-time smiles for the last few days on account of a present which he has received from one of his many friends. It was reported that he had been the recipient of a large and ferocious sea turtle and he has appreciated very much the spirit which has prompted this gift. When asked for any particulars he was very non-committal, but by his extreme good humor for the days since its receipt he has shown his appreciation.

NEW CAMPUS ASSISTANT

Mr. John Hill, of Charlotte, who has been on the Hill for several weeks, doing some new roofing for the college, has been given a permanent position with the college as a co-partner with Mr. Torrence. The college expects to put a new roof on Elm Row and to paint Georgia, Watts, and Chambers, with a new preparation known as atomite. A new pump has been installed lately to vouchsafe the water supply.

A receipt has been received from the National Red Cross Society acknowledging with thanks the contribution of thirty-two dollars and eleven cents ($32.11) from the Davidson College students, toward the European War Relief.

ALUMNI NOTES

S. Clay Williams, Valedictorian of the class of '05, is practicing law in Greensboro, N. C.

J. P. Paisley ('05) is in the lumber business in Paris, Texas.

H. L. Moore ('08) is principal of public schools at Hopkinsville, Ky.

Richard Lowe ('02) is in the insurance business in Washington, Ga.

Dr. E. P. Davis ('73) is pastor of the Second Presbyterian church, Greenville, S.C.

S. E. Sloope ('90) is a successful and prominent farmer near Mt. Ulla, N.C.

K. Goodman ('90) is now located at Mt. Ulla.

Locke White and C. R. (Ada) Wilcox are studying for the ministry at the Richmond Seminary. Both are attending the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte.

Andrew White is studying law at Harvard.

Murray Mack ('10) will be married to Miss Elizabeth Nims, of Fort Mill, S.C., February 17.

Mr. W. W. Boswell ('13), of Penfield, Ga., will be married to Miss Kate Hall, of Greensboro, N. C., on February 24.

W. T. Strait, '14, is at Charleston Medical College, Charleston, S.C.

H. L. McCaskill, ex-'15, is in the furniture business at Bainbridge, Ga.

K. L. Whittington,ex-'15, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va. E. M. Currie, ex-'16, is teaching near Fayetteville, N. C. Z. A. McColl, ex-'17, is at the University of North Carolina.

OUR SYLLABLES.

There is no language so beautiful as our own English tongue, when it is spoken beautifully. It is a wonderful possession; but like many other things which we have always had, we underestimate it and abuse it until it is depreciated. One of the chief ways in which we mistreat our language is in over-accenting our words. Foreigners are always quick to notice this. They find it hard to understand us because we bring out the one syllable that is accented and slur all the others. As they say, we “bang out” the accent, but care nothing about the rest of the word. By this fault, of which nearly all Americans are guilty, the language is robbed of its harmonious flow as well as of intelligibility. It is always noticeable that persons of most culture speak most distinctly; and this is a mark of breeding that everyone can try for. To speak clearly, giving each word its correct value, indicates a certain amount of knowledge, while the opposite way of speech is often an index of slovenly habits of thought, if not illiteracy.—Ohio State Journal.

Horace sat and gnawed his pen, says Answers, concentrating a look of hatred on the blank sheet of paper before him. From his seat he could see others dashing off fluent essays on Henry VIII. “Two minutes more!” came from the teacher. Then Horace, in desperation, seized his pen and made a bid for fame.

“Henry VIII was a king of England. He was born at Anno Domino and he had sixty wives. The first he ordered to be executed, but she was beheaded. He revoked the second, and the third died; and then he married Annie Bowline, the daughter of Tom Bowling. When he died he was succeeded on the throne by his Aunt Mary. Her full name was Mary, Queen of Scots, or the Lay of the Last Minstrel.”

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mahew Pressing Club
Veeccee & Mayberry, Props.

Visit the New Barber Shop
E.R. JENKS - Proprietor

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL
FIRE INSURANCE

For Her
She will appreciate a box of our fresh HUYLER’S CHOCOLATES

For Yourself
You will find our Fountain Drinks, Tobaccos, Toilet Preparations, suited to the most discriminating customer.
Jetton Drug Co.
Phone 7

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements

Pure Drugs
Soda, Cigars, and Tobaccos, Candy, Toilet Preparations
Prescriptions Our Specialty
WELCOME
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

While in Charlotte visit
TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The Best Work By Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

Brains at the expense of the body, paradoxically, shows lack of gray matter. No man is so busy that he cannot give a few minutes each day to a little exercise. A pulley weight rigged up in your room will do wonders to strengthen you, make you feel better, and increase your efficiency. Complete Equipment for Basket Ball, Foot Ball, Base Ball, Golf, Tennis, Track and Field. Our catalogue will give you many ideas you never thought of, and show you how simple it is to derive pleasure from your exercising. A postal will bring this catalogue.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Do You Want the Best 5c Cigar in town? If so, try the TURABO. A Cigar Without an Equal
The Davidson Drug Company