The DAVIDSONIAN. March 17, 1915

Home Is The Best Place to Practice New Steps: Dress Your Ankles

A little practice at home works wonders in giving you grace and certainty in executing the new dances. But you need the right kind of music. The very thing for the latest dances is among the new player music now in. Let us play the latest one step, Fox Trots, etc., for you on the Stieff Player Piano.

It will open your eyes to the pleasures which are in store for you when you own a Stieff Player Piano. Call tomorrow and ask to hear them. While you are here we will gladly explain how you can apply your old piano as part payment and take your time paying the balance. No interest or extras.

219 S. Tryon St.
STIEFF
Charlotte, N.C.

Just Received

Have Your Picture made in your own home, Direct from Broadway and have it made right.

ROY MOOSE, Photographer, of Greensboro, N. C. does that kind of work.

A shipment of Inferwoven’s the socks that wear well at every wear point--toe, sole, heel, and ankle.

Buy the thin sock that is hole-proof
M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Dealers in General Merchandise
Panamas, Straw Hats, Caps and Derbys.

When in Charlotte always stop at SCOFIELD'S
44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries
SCOFIELD'S & Thompson
STONEWALL HOTEL

CAMPUSISMS. WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed
A. R. HOWLAND, Local Representative
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.

Prompt and Efficient Service
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Roy Perry is out of the Infirmary after a week's stay, caused by a painful inflammation of the inner ear.

J. P. Williams spent two days last week in Roanoke, Va.

Over fifty men have been in the Infirmary since the middle of January, most of these with la Grippe.

D.C. Young went to Charlotte Monday for eye treatment.

Spring Is Here!

Trinity College—The baseball schedule for Trinity has been finally made out. The season starts on March 20 and ends May 8. The schedule includes games with such colleges as Amherst, Penn. State College, A. & M., University of Virginia, University of Georgia, V. M. I., and Davidson. The first two of the series will be played at Davidson and the remaining one at Concord.

V. M. I.—The bill which has been in the hands of Union forces during the Civil War has passed both the House and Senate, andNow only requires the signature of the President. The claim amounts to $100,000.

A certain dignified and highly respected member of the Senior class is today a wiser and better man. He was caught in the ignominious act of pitching horseshoes on Sunday. But the very next day, grim fate sent its terrible nemesis, for the recreant was stricken with a sprained ankle. Today he is perambulating over the campus with an unsteady gait. "Be sure your sin will find you out."

Most of the well-dressed fellows have ordered their Spring suits from us. They know our clothes are made by the best tailors in America, that the workmanship cannot be surpassed, that the models and patterns are the latest, and that they are reasonable.

The Blue Pencil Club held its regular meeting before Congress for the reimbursement of V.M.I. for damages suffered. The scholastic track meet will take place on Lambeth Field.

Washington & Lee—The Washington & Lee debating team on March 9 defeated the Trinity team at Lexington on the subject of direct primaries.

University of S.C.—Dr. F. H. Colcock, Dean of Mathematics at the University of S.C., has tendered his resignation. Dr. Colcock has been a professor at the University for over twenty years.

It is reported that "Coach" Johnson is often afflicted now with "rhythmatic" pains.

Last Call For Annuals. No orders will be received and no copies can be obtained unless they are signed up for in advance. See J. E. Faw or 16 Rumple.

Tom Sparrow, who was sick the first part of this week, is out again.

Z. McMillan, who has been confined on account of a sore foot, is walking around briskly once more.

J. C. Harper, who was with his mother in Charlotte the latter part of the week, came back Monday morning.

L. A. Chambliss spent the weekend in Charlotte at the home of Mr. Creighton.

F. R. McNeill spent a few days at his home in Fayetteville during Junior Week.

G. Stuart and H. R. Overcash are both confined to their rooms at present, having joined the "la grippe club."

Clary, who has been at home because of sickness, came back Monday morning.

L. A. Mullen, representing The Storrs-Schaefer Co., Cincinnati, offers creations and ultra-stylish designs.

SPRING IS COMING. The time to get your REPAIR WORK AND BUILDING DONE. C. B. MOONEY, General Contractor.

For Engraved Cards or the most reasonable prices on Quality Printing, get quotations from BRADY PRINTING COMPANY, STATESVILLE, N.C. L. A. MULLEN, Agent.

SENIORS: The Hotel Clayton is the one best place to stop while in Charlotte. EUROPEAN PLAN. CAFE IN CONNECTION.