The DAVIDSONIAN, August 23, 1915

FOR PROMPT and EFFICIENT LIVERY SERVICE
Call on B. B. BEALL
Carter’s Garage
Headquarters for the Very Best AUTO SERVICE
Reasonable prices Day or Night
PHONE: Day 38-L Night 99-L

JUST OPENED
Davidson Cafe
Everything Clean and Fresh
Something good to eat all the time.
L. A. ELLIOTT
Owner and Manager

M. W. Cranford & Sons
Chairs, Tables, and Student’s Supplies
“GOING CHEAP”

Visit the New Barber Shop
A Clean Shop and the Best of Attention
Two Competent Barbers:
E. R. JENKINS, Proprietor

SCOFIELD'S
44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries, and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S

TOWN NEWS

Messrs. C. S. Goodrum and C. A. Potts left Tuesday night on a two weeks’ trip to Atlantic City and New York.

Mr. David Worth has returned from Wilmington, where he has been working this summer.

Miss Helen Thompson, of Wake Forest, is visiting her uncle, Mr. W. H. Thompson.

Misses Lorine and Bonar Potts are spending a few weeks at Montreat.

Miss Sarah Wooten is home after a visit to friends in Toccoa, Ga.

Miss Doyle, of Baltimore, is visiting her sister, Mrs. J. W. McConnell.

Mr. W. H. Thompson, cashier of the American Trust Co., is enjoying a much-needed vacation. In his absence, Mr. W. C. Thompson is filling his place.

Mr. Gowan Dusenbury, of Concord, was a visitor in Davidson last Sunday.

Messrs. Lewis Johnson and Carl Sloan, who went to France early in the summer, returned to Davidson about two weeks ago.

Mr. J. P. Hartsoe, former superintendent of the Delburg Mills, has accepted a position as general superintendent of the Linden Manufacturing Company.

Mr. J. M. Blue, former night superintendent of the Delburg Mills, has been promoted to the position of general superintendent.

Dr. and Mrs. McGeachy, of Charlotte, are staying with Mrs. McGeachy's parents, Dr. and Mrs. Harding.

Two cafes will be opened in Davidson in the near future. One of these will be owned by Mr. L. A. Elliott, and the other by Mr. W. M. Torrence.

Mrs. A. B. Young and Misses Lizzie and Mary Young left Tuesday for Brevard, N.C., where they will spend the rest of the summer.

Mrs. J. S. Worth returned this week from Montreat, where she has been spending part of the summer. The Misses Worth returned last week from Wrightsville Beach and Wilmington.

Miss Callie Christenbury left Tuesday for Morganton, where she visited her brother, Lloyd Christenbury, who is playing on the Morganton baseball team. She returned the latter part of the week.

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Dye and daughter, of Statesville, are spending a few days with Mrs. Dye’s mother, Mrs. A. F. Cathey.

Mr. Guerdon Foster had as his guests on Tuesday evening of last week Misses Eva and Agnes Martin, of Greensboro; Misses Rachel Summerow and Catherine Lynch, of Charlotte, and Messrs. Frank Sherrill and Archie Bowles, of Charlotte.

Mr. J. P. Marsh motored over from his home, Marshville, N. C., Friday, the 13th, and spent the night in Davidson.

Mr. C. L. Grey has a new automobile.

Mrs. C. M. Richards and children are at Montreat for several weeks.

Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Knox are spending some days at Hiddenite.

Mrs. R. D. Alexander is visiting her daughter, Mrs. Stowe, of Belmont.

George Robson and J. Henry Smith have been working this summer on Dr. Smith's apple farm, near Taylorsville.

Mrs. Minter and her mother, Mrs. Murchison, and J. Russell Minter have recently returned from a visit to Lancaster, S.C.

Miss Mary Henderson spent several weeks with relatives in western North Carolina, stopping over at Montreat on her way home.

Mr. P. W. DuBose, of Columbia Seminary, who has been traveling this summer in the interest of Chicora College, was in town the week before last.

Mr. Robert Harding has accepted a position with the Ford Motor Co. in Charlotte.

Mrs. A. B. Robson returned last week from Montreat.

Misses Frances and Katherine Worth will spend the winter in St. Louis and will attend college in that city, where they will be in the home of their aunt, Mrs. E. A. Williams. They expect to remain in Davidson until the last of August, when they will leave direct for St. Louis.

Mr. G. F. Turner, of Chicago, spent Sunday with his sister, Mrs. E. Q. Houston. He and his sister, Miss May Turner, went to Charlotte Monday to spend a few days.

Messrs. R. K. Robinson, Ray HowLand and W. Neal, with a large party of friends, motored to Davidson Tuesday evening and spent some time on the campus. Mrs. Dupuy and Miss Jean Dupuy have spent July and August here, and it is with much regret that the people of the town learn they have offered their home for sale. It is with much regret that the friends of Miss Anne Payne learn that she will not be back this year. Her place in the graded school will be taken by Miss Jones, sister of R. H. Jones.

Miss Rosa Shamaker and little niece, Virginia, left Thursday for a week's visit to relatives in Kings Mountain.

Mr. W. G. Somerville, who has been doing home mission work in Richmond during the summer, has returned to Davidson and will help Mr. Jackson in the office during the opening.

Miss Mildred Johnston spent several days last week at Montreat.

Messrs. J. E. Johnston and J. R. McGregor have returned from a short trip to Montreat.

Mr. F. R. Campbell, who has been a master at the French Broad camp for boys during the season, is expected home next week.

FACULTY MOVEMENTS.

President Wm. J. Martin and family have spent July and August in Montreat. They have moved into their new cottage, built during the early summer. Dr. Martin has made several trips to Davidson to look after matters connected with his office.

Dr. J. B. Shearer is visiting relatives in Virginia, at his old home.

Dr. C. E. Harding has spent the summer at Davidson, enjoying a new Saxon machine he has bought. Early in the summer he and Mrs. Harding made an automobile trip to Blowing Rock with Dr. and Mrs. Addison Brenizer.

Dr. and Mrs. Grey have spent the summer at Davidson. Dr. Grey has been occupied in directing the operations of his farm near town.

Prof. John L. Douglas has been in the West for several weeks, visiting the San Diego and California Expositions and touring in the Rockies. It is likely that he will return home by way of Canada. J. M. Douglas has remained in Davidson for most of the summer. He and Mrs. Douglas and J. M. Jr., made a short visit to relatives in Hickory, N.C.

Dr. M. E. Sentelle has spent his vacation at Greenville, Tenn. Part of the time he has been engaged in home mission work in the mountains of east Tennessee.

Dr. J. M. McConnell has been teaching at the University summer school at Charlottesville, Va., where he gave courses in history. After returning to Davidson, he lectured twice before the Davidson summer school on the European War.

Dr. John W. McConnell left several weeks ago for New York City, where he has been taking post-graduate courses in medicine. Before returning home he will visit the Berkshire Country and witness the marriage of Miss Louise Ingham and Dr. R. S. Cunningham.

Prof. M. G. Fulton visited the various summer schools of the South during the summer, delivering lectures on simplified spelling. For the past week he and Mrs. Fulton have been sightseeing in New York City.

Dr. T. W. Lingle and family have spent the summer at Montreat, where they have bought a cottage. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle have conducted a successful summer school at Montreat. Mr. J. U. Blythe and Mr. R. S. Haltiwanger, two Davidson alumni, assisted them in the work.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and family have been at their summer home in West Virginia. During July, Dr. Arbuckle visited the San Diego and San Francisco Expositions. At the latter city, he attended a National Convention of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, to which he was a delegate.

Professor Currie and family have been at Dublin, Va., where Professor Currie has given courses in History and International Relations, in the summer session of William and Mary College. They returned to Davidson this week.

Dr. C. N. Wunder, who everyone regrets will not return to Davidson, has accepted a position at the Southwestern University of Texas, where he will teach Mathematics.

Prof. William W. Wood, the new Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics and Astronomy, has spent the summer in special work at the University of Virginia. During the spring he was engaged in engineering work for the Dupont Powder Company.

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Business Manager and Treasurer, made short visits to his father’s home in Gaston County and to Mrs. Jackson's home at Lumberton, N. C. For most of the summer, he has been busily engaged in his office and in supervising improvements on the college buildings and grounds.

Mr. W. McK. Fetzer, Athletic Instructor, had charge of a boys’ camp at Camp Sapphire, N. C.

Miss Cornelia Shaw is spending the month of August at Spruce Pine, N. C.