staff. And this is in part the purpose © The DAVIDSONIAN. March 24, 1915

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick....... Business Manager
J. H. Carson and L. G. Edgerton, Assistant Managers

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

REPORTERS’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
K. H. Hamilton
T. F. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

It has always been the custom for the College Magazine to allot one issue each year to the members of
the Sophomore class in order that they may show what literary ability they possess, and in a way give the
societies a basis for the selection of the Junior members of the Magazine of The Davidsonian in its present issue,
for it is from the present Freshman class that many of our next year’s reporters will come. But this is
not our sole purpose. It has always been our desire to make each student feel that The Davidsonian belongs to
him, that The Davidsonian is devoted to his interests and that it is up to him to do everything in
his power to make it succeed. We have no literary societies, no Senior class, no Y. M. C. A., behind
us. The Davidsonian depends for its success entirely upon the support of the college and the town. Thus we want
the college to feel that this publication belongs to no particular organization, but to the college as a whole, and
that it is to be conducted upon broad democratic principles, a policy which gives every man in college a chance
to become a member of the staff. In pursuance of this policy we desire to interest each incoming class in
The Davidsonian as soon as possible in order that it may take an active part in producing a good newspaper.
For these reasons we have turned over the greater portion of the articles for the present issue to members of
the Freshman class.

A LOVELY SNOW SCENE.

Ah, 'twas a beautiful Saturday morn. A cloak of ermine interspersed with brilliance had been cast over the landscape, a
lacy net of the softest floss was draped in graceful festoons over the shivering elms, the gentle wind carried in
its wake a fleecy shower. A scene set in purity and beauty, a scene which should arouse in each man’s
breast a love for others. How lovingly the little flakes nestled against each other as they reached the ground. “Peace,
love, peace, love,” the wind whispered to the downy little fellows as they fell. And now comes the silvery tinkling,
the melodious concatenation which awakens the student to a beautiful day full of renewed hopes and activities, full of love
for his fellowman. An interval and again those chimes send their silvery notes over the beautiful scene. Suddenly blood-curdling screams
rend the air, wildly flying figures with heads bowed, and coat tails flying, disturb the calm beauty and quiet of
the scene. Following them are Sophs, bloody Sophs, their faces inflamed with

STUDENT SELF-GOVERNMENT.

[A few weeks ago Professor Fulton gave as his weekly assignment in writing to his Freshman English class the composition
of an editorial. The editorials written by the Freshmen in this exercise have been turned over to The Davidsonian Staff,
and the best of them will be published from time to time. The editorial below is the third of this
series.]

One of the greatest problems that arise in American colleges of today is the question of government. The student self-government
or ‘honor’ system has been tried and has proven, beyond a doubt, to be the most successful means of governing
a body of young men. This system is composed of the student council, known as the student council, and the
officers of this council. Each class elects its own representatives to the council, and these being apportioned, according to the
relative importance and standing of the classes. The president of the student body, being elected by members of that assembly,
is virtually president and chairman of the student council. This composes the officers under this form of government. This form
of government has proven itself beneficial in a great many ways, though there are three benefits which surpass the others
in importance. First comes the relationship to our nation's government. Second, it makes the student honest and conscientious. Lastly, the
student can be judged better by his fellow students.than by the faculty. The governments of our nation and of our
State are built upon the same principles as that of the student government, having the chief executive officer and lower
officers elected by the people. This familiarizes the student with the problems of government and politics, which he must deal
with when he reaches the age of manhood. In the old system, the student was continually watched in instances where
his honor was at stake, and he began to feel that the real wrong was not in doing wrong, but
in being caught. The honor system has removed this wrong conception of one's honor and has made the student more
conscientious. In the days when the faculty comprised the only governing body, there were many evil conditions that existed which
the faculty was not in a position to know of and correct. Under the new system where the students are
more familiar with conditions that exist and are in a better position to judge their fellow classmates. Hence it would
be better for new colleges to consider very seriously the honor system when they are planning their form of government.

COACH COOK TO BE MARRIED SOON.
Invitations have been received by several students here to the marriage of W. T. Cook (Coach), who was in charge
of our athletics last year. Mr. Cook is to be married to Miss Mary Jeannette Kenyon, of Hartford, Conn., on
March 27. The Davidsonian and the student body as a whole extend hearty congratulations to the happy couple.

MARRIAGE OF W. P. PARKER.
A letter has recently been received from W. P. Parker, Davidson's representative in the foreign field, telling of his marriage
to Miss Harriet D. Fitch, at Seoul, Korea. Mrs. Parker is teaching in the Girl's School at Pyengyang, Korea, besides
assisting in the Sunday school there. We offer the bridegroom our heartiest congratulations.

Rev. Dr. E. R. Leyburn, of the First Presbyterian church, of Durham, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon at Commencement in
May.

Miss Helen L. Wilson, of Sherrill’s Ford, is visiting Miss Johnsie Shelton.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

FOR THAT “CONKLIN” Self-filling Fountain Pen see H. R. Dishbough, 19 Rumple.

CIVIC LEAGUE PLANS.
The Civic League is at present interested in fitting out their new hall over the drug store. Committees have been
named to furnish the room. The ladies of the League have offered the use of the hall to the Men's
Club that was formed recently. The first meeting of this club will be held on Tuesday evening, at which an
address will be given by Dr. Dennis, of Charlotte.

HIGH SCHOOL DEBATE.
On Friday, March 26, the local High School will debate with Dixie on the subject, “Resolved, That the United States
should adopt the policy of subsidizing its Merchant Marine engaged in foreign trade.” All friends of the school are invited
to come out and hear this discussion. The hour and place will be announced through a notice posted in the
Post Office.

Dr. W. J. Martin spent a few days in Atlanta last week attending a committee meeting of the Laymen.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
During its 55 years’ history has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined
a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for SERVICE, STRENGTH, SECURITY.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Full Faculty
Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

LET US SHOE YOU
LADIES
Our Spring Line of France Slippers consists of the latest cuts.

GENTLEMEN
Florsheim Shoes are part of a well-dressed man’s makeup.

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY,---
Remember
We always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits, and Candy
Always Fresh
Always the best
Give Us A Trial
And BE CONVINCED
L. A. ELLIOTT
Next door to White Drug Co.
