The Davidsonian Vol. II. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 27, 1915. No. 7.

Capt. J. W. Brown Dies Suddenly
Prominent Citizen Stricken Sunday Afternoon.

The whole community as well as a large number of friends in other places will be grieved by the sudden
death, on Sunday afternoon, the 24th, of Capt. John D. Brown, one of the oldest citizens of Davidson. Captain Brown
was born in Robeson County on November 17, 1840, and was the son of Archibald S. Brown, a lawyer of
prominence in his time. When nineteen years of age he moved with his parents to Mecklenburg County, and entered Davidson
College as a student, but the opening of the war made it impossible for him to complete his college course.
He joined the army as a private in the company of Capt. W. B. Lynch, and upon its disbanding he
became a member of Company I, Fifth North Carolina Cavalry. He served as a private and as sergeant until 1863,
when he was elected third lieutenant of Company C, Thirty-seventh Regiment. In 1864 he was promoted to captain of his
company. Among the battles in which he participated were those of White Hall Bridge, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, the Wilderness, Spottsylvania Court
House, and the fighting in the trenches in the vicinity of Petersburg. He was once wounded and twice captured. At
Spottsylvania he first fell into the hands of the enemy, but was exchanged sixty days later. Finally, on the right
of the line at Petersburg, a few days before evacuation, he was made prisoner, and was carried to Johnson's Island,
Lake Erie, where he was held until the following June.

After the war Captain Brown returned to Mecklenburg County, where he became a very successful farmer, increasing his land holdings
to some seven or eight farms, and running at the same time a prosperous mercantile business in Davidson, where he
has lived ever since the war. In 1864 he was married to Miss Mary Johnson. Six children survive him—Mr. Owen
N. Brown, a lawyer in Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mr. Houston J. Brown, of the present Brown-Knox Mercantile Co., in Davidson;
Mr. John Brown, living in Graham, Va.; Mr. Sam A. Brown, in business in Charlotte; Mr. Archibald S. Brown, in
Davidson; and Miss Annie H. Brown, the only daughter, living in Charlotte.

LOCAL CHAPTER OF FRATERNITY HONORED

Quite an honor has come to the Davidson Chapter of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity in the appointment of L. A.
Mullen to cover the proceedings of the annual convention of that Fraternity, held in San Francisco during this last summer.
Mr. Mullen was a delegate to this convention, and it was during the trip to San Francisco that the editor
of their Magazine requested that he keep a record of the proceedings and include these in an article to appear
in the next issue of the Magazine. Word has already come from headquarters of the Fraternity thanking Mr. Mullen for
his excellent work and as a concrete testimony of their appreciation there was the phrase included, “Enclosed please find check.”

Sophs Still Lead Class Basket Ball
Have Not Yet Been Defeated---Monday Games Well Fought.

The Sophomore basket ball team retained their faultless record by defeating the Freshman team Monday morning to the tune of
39 to 11. This is the Sophomore’s third victory, and so far they have not lost a single game. Although
four men of last year’s Freshman team are ineligible, having made the Varsity trip, and two others did not return,
this year’s team, with D. Sprunt as captain and Hengeveld as manager, and augmented by King, is a very fast
one and is making a strong bid for the championship. In the game Monday morning, Sprunt and King starred for
the Sophomores, and Hall for the Freshmen. The game was fast and hard throughout, and was featured by the number
of long shots. The line-up was as follows:

Sophs (39) Position Fresh (11)
Sprunt.................. Hall
King.................... Nimmocks
Forwards
Mountcastle........... Williamson
Center
Worth.................. Delaney
Therrell................ Burns
Guards

Substitutions: McAskill for Williamson; Alexander for Delaney; Ports for Alexander. Referee, Perry.

On Monday afternoon the Seniors defeated the Juniors in a fast game by the score of 20 to 12. The
Junior team fought well, but were finally beaten by the team work of their opponents, and the accurate shooting of
Dumas. At the end of the first half the score stood 14-6. The whole game was watched with great interest
by a large number of upholders of both sides. It was one of the hardest contested games yet played. The
line-up was as follows:

Seniors (20) Position Juniors (12)
Perry.................. Nisbit
Hoyt................... Young
Forwards
Dumas................. Henderson
Center
Edgerton.............. Keesler
W. P. Patton.......... Murray
Guards

Substitutions: Price for Henderson. Referee, Childs.

The summary of the games is as follows:
Won Lost Percentage
Sophs................. 3 0 1,000
Juniors............... 1 2 333
Fresh................. 1 2 333
Seniors............... 1 2 333

ANNUAL MEETING OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The annual fall meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College was held in Charlotte
last week. Dr. Martin and Mr. Jackson attended the meeting, and their reports as to the fine opening and prosperous
condition of the college were very satisfactory. Dr. W. L. Lingle, the chairman, presided, and all the members, with one
exception, were present. Only routine matters received the attention of the committee, and no business of special interest was transacted.

Saunders Wins Championship In Singles
By Defeating R. G. Finley Monday---Match Was Well Fought.The singles of the tennis tournament were completed Monday afternoon when Saunders
defeated R. G. Finley 3-6, 6-3, 7-5, 6-0. The last match of the semi-finals was played Saturday afternoon, when R.
G. Finley won from Kennedy. The ability of both players frequently drew forth applause from the onlookers. The final match,
Finley vs. Saunders, was fast and characterized by brilliant playing on the part of both contestants. Saunders, by his victory,
has won the right to represent Davidson in intercollegiate tennis, and he is quite capable of adding to the laurels
which were won for her last year. Saunders and Alford, by playing a brilliant, steady game through many hard-fought matches,
won out for the honors and will represent Davidson in the doubles. The manager reports that he has arranged for
a match with Erskine College on the Hill in the near future, and that he is trying to land a
game with Wake Forest. As the tournament was so late in its completion, he was unable to obtain a match
with Elon College this fall, but one has been arranged with that college for next spring.

Y.M.C.A. MEETING.

The Y.M.C.A. meeting last Thursday evening was conducted by J. H. Carson. The music rendered by the Orchestra was highly
appreciated by the audience, which showed a significant increase in attendance. Mr. Carson stated that he wanted every fellow who
would to testify of the benefit that he had derived from the Chapman-Alexander meeting. The responses which followed were many,
and it was made manifest that the good which the Chapman-Alexander parts did lives after them. The testimonies in condensed
and concise form are as follows: “The greatest danger to college boys is to drift; notoriously good-natured fellows allow things
to come into mind and crowd religious things out.” “The meeting impressed upon me the fact that religion is the
supreme thing in life.” “It was the best thing for Davidson in the course of her history.” “It was a
stimulus to live a positive Christian life.” “I realized that prayer was the great help.” “I was brought from the
gates of hell.” “Nothing has done more good for my life—it has brought about a complete change.” “I was impressed
of our greater responsibility.” “It brought back the teachings of my father and mother.” “In religion, there is a power.”
“It brought us all to a deeper realization of what Christian religion really is.” “A stimulus for better Y.M.C.A. attendance
has been created.” “I am going to do more for Christ.” “There is a real beauty in our singing when
we sing praises.” “I was a ministerial candidate and was not converted until the meeting.” “The meeting has been an
inspiration for Bible study attendance.” “It was the greatest meeting that has ever come to Davidson.” “All of the men
on the campus are now bound together in a different sort of way.”

Result in Two Touchdowns.

Davidson tallied another victory Saturday afternoon by defeating Roanoke College 13 to 0. In the opening period, it looked as
if everything was going Roanoke's way and their superior weight told heavily on the Red and Black. With apparent ease,
the Virginians advanced the ball to Davidson's 5-yard line. But the Tar Heel line braced and spoiled a field goal
for the Roanokers. Resenting this onslaught, the Red and Black came back with all the spirit and “pep” characteristic of
Davidson, and succeeded in placing the ball on Roanoke's 3-yard line, only to be sent 15 yards back on a
penalty on the following play. In the second quarter, the ball seesawed up and down the field but was finally
pushed well into Davidson's territory. A forward pass was intercepted by Captain Walker, who with beautiful interference ran 70 yards
before being downed. The half ended with the ball in Davidson's possession. Score 0-0.

In the second half, Davidson entered with a rush, captured the ball from the Virginians, and raced to their 9-yard
line. On the second down, 4 to go, Davidson scored the first touchdown in a forward pass over the goal
line. Grey failed to kick the goal. The game from that time on was Davidson's in all departments. They bucked
the line, circled the ends, completed forward passes at will, and again held on the ball on Roanoke’s 3-yard line,
but for holding were penalized 15 yards and the ball went over. Roanoke punted out of danger. In the last
quarter, by a beautiful forward pass, Lawson to Younger, and end runs, Davidson crossed for the second touchdown, Lawson kicking
the goal. Roanoke received and was held for downs. Davidson, by steady bucks and end runs, again crossed the line,
but fumbled and Roanoke recovered. After a few short gains, the Virginians attempted to punt, but the kick was blocked
and Davidson recovered on the 15-yard line. Place kick formation had been called when the whistle blew, ending the struggle.
Score, Davidson 13, Roanoke 0.

For Davidson, the work of White, Savad, and Younger was especially good. Younger on the right wing was in all
parts of the game, snatching passes from space at will and repeatedly breaking up the Virginia interference and throwing the
runner for losses of 10 to 15 yards. Black at right half also did stellar work. He circled the ends
without difficulty and was the most consistent ground gainer on the field. Captain Walker, both in the backfield and later
in the line, proved himself master of his position.

Line-up:
Davidson (13) Position Roanoke (0)
White .................. Center .................. O’Flaherty
Savad .................. Right Guard .......... S. Bonham
Grey .................... Left Guard ............ Painter
T. White ............... Right Tackle ........ Roe

(Continued on page 4)
