The Davidsonian, September 15, 1915

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
Editor-in-Chief: Williams
Managing Editor: Price
Assignment Editor: D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford

Business Manager: J. H. Carson
Assistant Business Managers: E. P. Nisbet, W. H. Neal

REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
R. Woods

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

A CALL FOR SERVICE

The largest initial enrollment in the history of the college is an indication of the bright future which is in
store for Davidson during this year. The work already accomplished has shown that practically without exception every old man has
returned filled with a determination to do his best, and the new men are called upon to enter into this
spirit of the institution and make their work count. With the whole world changing overnight and with forces unloosed which
have shaken all governments, it is high time that small things and personal prejudices be put aside and every man
fully realize his duty and responsibility as a member of the student body. Let there be no hesitation in putting
first things first. The prime object in attending college is to gain the benefits to be derived from the courses
offered. It is a grave mistake to allow anything else to have right of way over this purpose. After this
comes the call of various student activities, and no man should fail to take part in at least one of
these interests. One, two, or even more of the things which offer attraction should be chosen, and no matter what
are the obstacles, nothing should stand in the way of these ideals. It may be the literary societies, athletics, publications,
or any one of a number of things, but the goal should be decided upon and then let “proficiency” be
the watchword. It is to those who follow this course that the college must look for its advancement and the
fulfillment of the high ideals of the Davidson campus.

DR. ARBUCKLE HONORED

At the bi-ennial convention of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, held in San Francisco, August 3-6, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle,
of the Davidson faculty, was elected to the office of grand counselor, the highest position in the gift of the
fraternity. Dr. Arbuckle has always been an active worker in everything which he has undertaken, and this recognition of his
ability is a well-merited one.

Dr. Toash Yohannan’s ('11) mother has died of fever in the midst of the Persian persecution.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS

During the past summer, the college authorities have done much to make life on the campus more pleasant. The halls
of Georgia, Watts, and Rumple dormitories have been cleaned and repainted. A new floor has been placed in Rumple dormitory.
The rooms in the south wing of Chambers have been furnished and improved very much. In addition, Shearer Hall and
Martin Chemical laboratories have been provided with steam heat. The work on the Morrison Memorial Hall has been completed and
the committee in charge only awaits the arrival of the furniture to give the hall a formal opening. The rooms
on the second floor will be used as a Social Center, Y. M. C. A. committee room, and for the
Applied Mathematics department. The old store room on the second floor of Chambers is being prepared for an additional Physics
laboratory. The new residence being built on Concord Avenue for Dr. Arbuckle is about completed. The walks on the campus
are beingcovered with a course of sand, new drains are being opened, and the grass on the campus has been
mowed. The golf course is in much better shape than it ever has been. The tennis courts are to be
improved and remade. This will give everyone a chance to play tennis at any time. After the college has done
so much for the students, it is hoped they will do all possible to keep the campus in good shape.

LITERARY NOTES.
All of the old men of Davidson know what a great benefit is derived from the library. And now to
the new men, especially, the library offers a hearty welcome. Miss Shaw, the librarian, will always be glad to talk
with you concerning anything which pertains to the library. This year the reading room will be open from 8:30 a.m.
to 8 p.m. The library will be open from 12 m. to 6 p.m., except on Monday, when it will
be open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The library has added about 125 new books to its list during
the last few months. Among these are the chief magazines, which were in the reading room last year, very neatly
bound, each book containing the year’s issue of the magazine. There will also be found several copies of the most
up-to-date modern fiction, and several books dealing with the present war, such as: “India and the War,” by Lord Sydenham;
“The German Enigma,” by Georges Bourdon; “World in Crucible,” by Parker; “With the German Armies in the West,” by Hodin;
“Germany and the Germans,” by Collier; “Russia and the World,” by Graham; “When Blood Is Their Argument,” by Hueffer and
Lord Maddox, and “Diplomatic Documents Relating to European War,” published in London.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.
The subject and the material for the debates on Saturday night may be found in the library. Suitable subjects for
declamation may also be found there, and Miss Shaw will be glad to assist anyone in getting these up.

Phi. Society, September 18—Affirmative: Bullock, Stone, R. H., Henderson, Cooper, McNeil, Farrior; Negative: Cummings, Davis, Nisbet, Ormand, McBryde, J. M.

September 20, Declamations and Orations—R. D. Hall, J. K. Fleming, Copeland, Finley, A. G. McCormick, Rourke, Nimocks, Mallard, Rankin, Monroe,
McLeod.

Eumenean, September 18—Affirmative: Edgerton, Hobson, Meck; Negative: Woods, J. R., Bennett, Douglas.

September 20, Orations—Hay, Jones, R. H., Williams, J. T., Craig; Declamations—Chambliss, Bellingrath, Aiken, Fountain, Humphrey.

STUDENTS:
For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING get quotations from Brady Printing Company, STATESVILLE, N. C.

L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Tate’s Barber Shop WILL HAVE A MAN AT CHARLOTTE, N. C. No. 1 Ga. Special Attention September 15, 16 and
17 to Meek & Perry Drop In And See Our Line

FELLOWS:
B. F. C. Tailoring Company Davidson Men D. LOWENBURG & CO. Will have a representative here with a full line
of The Latest in Fall and Winter Shoes September 21, 22, 23 at No. 8 Watts

FINLEY & PAISLEY QUALITY FIRST

Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone
and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices 219
S. Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N. C. Opposite Academy of Music Established 1842

Florsheim Shoes, Hole-proof Hosiery GENTS’ FURNISHING Furniture, Druggets, Rugs, Etc.

If you want your Brown-Knox Mercantile Company suit done up-to-date LOOK! six for $1 If you want a nice fall
suit, let him order it and he will press it four months FREE OF CHARGE

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB Back of Meat Market Representatives: Leslie Patterson, 30 R. W. C. Copeland, 14 Ch. W. C.
Beerk, 67 Ch.
