The DAVIDSONIAN. March 31, 1915

Dress Your Ankles? WELL
Interwoven’s the socks that wear well at every wear point--toe, sole, heel, and ankle. Buy the thin sock that is hole-proof.
M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Dealers in General Merchandise

SCOFIELD'S
44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries, and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON

You're Safe in ordering your new Spring suit of us. You can feel assured that the patterns, fabrics, and models we are showing this season are ultra in style--- that the workmanship and tailoring that go into our garments are the highest that can be attained.
L. A. Mullen
Representing The Storrs-Schaefer Co.
Cincinnati

REMEMBER
On Monday morning to put your laundry out, your name on it and mark it for us.
Charlotte Steam Laundry
W. Y. SAYAD, Agt.
No. 7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing

Home Is The Best Place to Practice New Steps
A little practice at home works wonders in giving you grace and certainty in executing the new dances. But you need the right kind of music. Let us play the latest one-step, Fox Trots, etc., for you on the Stieff Player Piano. It will open your eyes to the pleasures which are in store for you when you own a Stieff Player Piano. Call tomorrow and ask to hear them. While you are here we will gladly explain how you can apply your old piano as part payment and take your time paying the balance. No interest or extras.
STIEFF
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Direct from Broadway
A shipment of Panamas, Straw Hats, Caps, and Derbys. Shaw-Knit Hose 25 and 50c.
Armour Bros. & Thompson

Have Your Picture made in your own home, and have it made right. ROY MOOSK, Photographer, of Greensboro, N. C. does that kind of work.
Wm. E. Williams, Agt.

TO DAVIDSON CITIZENS.
The town of Davidson has before it a future equal in every respect to its past. In order that the best results may be obtained, that our influence may become as widespread as it should be, that we may all have the full benefit of the development of our municipal affairs, what resources we have and our trade, it is essential that our laws be framed to make that result possible. Ours, I have been told, is a government of the people and whatever laws we may operate under are the direct results of the deliberations of the representatives of the people. If those laws are obstructive, as they must be at times, it is the duty of our business men to call the attention of the Board of Aldermen to the fact and urge as well as they may, good reasons for corrections. It is the duty of all good citizens to take an interest in their government. We have been prone to give but little consideration to the fitness of candidates for the office of lawmakers, and if, as occasionally happens (but in this case I do not know when) unworthy representatives have been returned, it is not the fault of the representative, it is not the fault of the system, but it is due entirely to our own negligence and it little behooves us to find fault with the result of our own negligence, carelessness, and lack of performance of duty. Our form of government is justas responsive to the will of the people as any other of its size and kind that I know of. There is no question but that it is the desire of those in power to do the best they can to promote the welfare of the town, and it were idle to say that unjust discrimination will be made in the face of sound opposition. Therefore it is incumbent upon our business men to devote some attention and time to political affairs. We must bear in mind that no serious injustice can be done to any branch of industry without having its effect upon the whole business structure. All industry is akin. Injustice to one branch affects all. And no great constructive work for the good of the State, municipality, or people was ever founded upon injustice. But what may appear to be injustice is oftentimes superficial action based upon lack of experience or failure to analyze fundamental information.

We need much more general and more intellectual participation in politics than obtains at the present. The time is here for intensive cultivation in social and political fields as it is in agriculture and preventive medicine, and this can only be effected by harmonious and intelligent cooperation among the business men, wage earners, and in fact, all participants in our present social and industrial order. Is it too much to ask that we have this in a constantly increasing measure?

In conclusion, allow me to put in a plea for our children as they are the coming generation of men and women. They need an education. Ours is a municipal graded school. Let's pay our taxes, for they are due and the School Board needs its part of the money to meet the teachers’ salaries.

A CITIZEN.

MRS. JACKSON

It was with sincere regret that the students of Davidson heard of the death of Mrs. Jackson, the wife of Gen. “Stonewall” Jackson. Mrs. Jackson was closely associated with Davidson in that she was the daughter of Dr. Morrison, the first President of this college. A large part of her girlhood days was spent in Davidson, in the house occupied by Dr. Martin. The last part of her life she spent in Charlotte, and she often came up to visit the old college and the scenes of her childhood. Many of the students, by personal acquaintance, and the rest by repute, had come to consider her a personal friend. Dr. Martin attended the funeral services held in Charlotte Thursday afternoon. A few old hymns, her favorites, were sung and prayers were offered. Then a long, sorrowful procession followed the casket, covered with flowers, to the depot, and watched the train depart that carried her body to join that of her husband. She was laid away in Lexington on the following day. All Davidson students would extend to the bereaved ones their heartfelt sympathy.

L. H. Wilkinson ('13) was on the Hill for a short time last week.

PRINTING

Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, etc. Promptly and correctly executed.

A. R. HOWLAND, Local Representative
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.

213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SPRING IS COMING

The time to get your REPAIR WORK AND BUILDING DONE

C. B. MOONEY
General Contractor

SENIORS:

For Engraved Cards or most reasonable prices on Quality Printing, get quotations from

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N. C.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Visit the New Barber Shop
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL for FIRE INSURANCE.