4 PLAY BY LOCAL TALENT
(Continued from page 1)

own expressive words, he finds himself “so unnecessary.” The play as a whole was much above the average amateur production;
and the lack of adequate scenery and stage facilities were more than made up by the excellent acting of the
entire cast. There was not a single weak part, and the company as a whole deserve much credit for the
way in which each role was handled. In addition to those already named, Misses Payne and Thomson should be mentioned,
together with Messrs. Morrison, McKee, and Williamson, for the creditable showing which they made. The cast of characters was as
follows: Jimmie Cavendish, a rah-rah boy, W. G. Morrison; Tad Cheseldine, a college cut-up, L. A. Chambliss; Leviticus, the ace
of spades, L. A. Mullen; Major Kilpenner, the head of the military, R. B. McKee; Prof. Senacharib Popp, the chair
of philosophy, R. C. Jones; Shorts Lone, the ubiquitous freshman, G. Williamson; Billy Van Dorn, on the glee club, Lavens
Thomas; Dr. Twiegs, on the faculty, R. Perry; Miss “Jim” Charming, the girl from Dixie, Caroline Bond; Marjorie Haviland, the
college widow, Anne Payne; Mrs. Baggsby, “Ma,” a popular landlady, Maude Vinson; Miss Jane Cavendish, Wall Street, New York, Susan
Thompson; Mrs. Cleopatra Popp, a faculty type, Irene Foreman; Mrs. Mollie Styles, a honeymooner, Katherine Worth; Miss Twiggs, a relic
of other days, Lillian Houston; Mrs. Twiggs, a motherly old soul, Louise Manning.

GEORGIA DEFEATED BY
(Continued from page 1)

by pitched ball, Keesler by Dunn; left on bases, Davidson 7, Georgia 3; hits off Lawson 3 in 9 innings,
off Dunn 13 in 7 innings, off McWhorter 0 in 1 inning; umpire, McDonald; scorer, Law.

Wake Forest Game.
On Saturday, April 24, the Red and Black was defeated by Wake Forest, the score being 6 to 2. The
game was interesting from the start to the finish, and at one time it looked as if the locals would
be the victors, but the hoodoo appeared in the seventh inning, when the Baptists made four runs.

Davidson scored first. Christenbury, the first man up, singled and was sacrificed to second by Somerville, scoring when Alford singled.
Wake Forest eased in a couple in their half of the fourth. Carlyle, the first man up, was hit by
Lawson, was sacrificed to second, and scored when Holding hit to right field fence for three bases. Holding was able
to count later on an infield hit. The Presbyterians came back in their half of the fourth and counted one
more, evening up the score. Austin hit to the fence for a triple and scored on Saunders’ single.

Then came the disastrous seventh. Two men were down and Hensley was on second. Moore hit the umpire with a
ground ball and was safe; an instant after this a steal was attempted and Alford pegged to Somerville; then Hensley
started home and was safe because Somerville held the ball until it was too late to catch the runner at
the plate. On an error and two singles the visitors were able to register three more runs.

The feature of the game was a catch made by Groome in deep center field, robbing Holding of another hit,
which seemed to be good for three bases. Both Lawson and Moore pitched fine ball. The former struck out seven
and walked only one, while the latter struck out four and walked two.

Score by innings:
Davidson .. .. .. .. .. 100 100 000
Wake Forest . . .. 000 200 400

Summary: Three-base hits, Austin, Holding; sacrifice hits, Somerville, Saunders, Billings; base on balls, off Lawson 1, off Moore 2; struck
out, by Lawson 7, by Moore 4; wild pitch, Lawson; hit by pitched ball, Carlyle; umpire, Crayton; scorer, Law.

The DAVIDSONIAN. April 28, 1915

SOPHS HOLD BIG “FEED.”
Last Friday night at 9 o'clock practically every Soph on the Hill gathered in the Commencement hall for a big
informal “feed.” It was successful in every way—the speeches were snappy and full of wit, and it seemed as though
everybody came determined to throw off all reserve and have a good time. Toastmaster McKay ran things in fine fashion
and kept up continual pep.

A feature of the occasion was the butlers, Oskeegum and Maud, two members of the local colored contingent who are
a familiar sight on the campus, dressed in white. They welcomed each guest at the door with a “Lord Chesterfield”
bow and ushered him to his seat. Then the guests were each handed a souvenir of the occasion. The tables
were overloaded with all kinds of appetizing food. Oskeegum and Maud served drinks and ice cream.

After everyone had eaten and was smoking his cigar, Toastmaster McKay started the ball rolling with a few introductory remarks,
after which he called on “Al” Reese, the president of the class, who welcomed the guests and extended thanks to
Hampton, the manager, and McKay.On behalf of the class for their efforts, ‘Eddie’ Hampton next thanked those who had helped
him in preparing the feed. “Long boy” Johnson, the Senior representative, in a very happy manner told of his appreciation
in being able to attend. “Shorty Williams,” the Junior representative, next spoke, calling attention to the association of the classes
in the past and the hopes for better cooperation in the future. Next came “Judas Iscariot” Black, the Fresh representative,
who heartily thanked the class for their invitation and hospitality. “Red” Nisbet, in a clever speech, spoke of how much
the absent ones were missing and made several hits at the toastmaster. Jack Paisley gave a good talk on the
spirit of '17. Next, the toastmaster called on Reese Jenkins to address the crowd in his native Charlestonian brogue. Sam
Keesler next gave a good speech on the “Athletes of '17.” He compared the Soph football representatives on the Varsity
to the American flag, for “when ‘Red’ Laird skirted the end with White in the line, the opposing side began
to look blue.” “Bennie” Hagood then spoke on the pleasing subject, “The Ladies.” Next was “Billy” Sayad, from far-away Persia,
who gave one of the most enjoyable talks of the night. He spoke of how much at home the Davidson
men and the Americans in general made the foreigners feel when they come over to this country for an education
and helped them. He said that someday the Orient would develop into great nations, and all credit would be due
to the United States. “Shine” McLeod gave an enjoyable discourse on “Colonel Scofield.” “Mike” Ansley gave the prophecies in regard
to various members of the class. “Andy” Brown spoke on the “Faculty.” “Long” Faison “pulled” an excellent joke on the
Ford. There were many other good short speeches. After the two butlers had entertained the crowd with clog dancing, the
class yell was given and fifteen for “Eddie” and “Butch” and straightway proceeded to bed(?). Too much credit cannot be
given to “Eddie” Hampton for his splendid management of the affair and to McKay for the pleasing way in which
he handled the feed.

DR. LAFFERTY DELIVERS FORCEFUL SERMONS

Rev. Mr. Lafferty addressed the congregation here Sunday. Mr. Lafferty is a forceful speaker, and not a few spoke of
the benefit derived from his two sermons. At the morning service, he chose as his text the distinctions between the
narrow and broad ways to eternal life, showing the difficulties and perplexities of the Christian who would follow aright. In
the evening, the sermon was taken from the 15th chapter of St. John, the relationship between the Father and His
children, through Jesus Christ, the Son. The picture was most beautifully presented and one could not help but feel deeply
benefited by listening.

White Drug Company, Incorporated
Complete line of Stationery, Drinks, Cigars, Tobaccos
Agents for Norris Exquisite Candies
Prescriptions A Specialty
The Rexall Store
WHAT WE SAY WE DO, WE DO DO!

Make Your Old Suit As Good As New
Agents for Dry Cleaning and Dyeing
Davidson Pressing Club
Alexander & Murphy, Props.

Hotel Clayton
The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.
EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

We are always glad to see you. See us for Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars, and Drinks
Prescriptions Carefully Compounded
Davidson Drug Co.

Jetton’s is headquarters for all Athletic News
Drop in and hear the latest dope.
Our stock of TOBACCO, CANDY, SUPPLIES, and STATIONERY is complete and up to the minute.
Jetton Drug Co.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING — Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT — Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES — Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months
or more.

Do you play the game? If so, we can be of aid to you in the way of equipment—equipment designed
and made by experts who know the game and its requirements.
Spalding “Players” Autograph Bats
Spalding “Featherweight” Baseball Shoes
The lightest shoes ever made for ball playing use. $7.00 per pair. Other shoes from $7.00 to $5.00.
The “Just Right” infielder's Glove
Broken-in model with the famous KING PATENT FELT PADDING. $5.00 each. Other infielders’ gloves from $5.00 to 25c.
Play with equipment bearing the Spalding Trademark—the kind the “Big Leaguers” use.
Catalogue free on request.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements
