The DAVIDSONIAN, December 8, 1915

Goodrum & Co.
There is where you get the latest styles in Men Who Wear Good Shoes are always afforded standing room in the HALL OF FAME. Protect your feet from slander by keeping them dressed up. Have you seen our $5.00 specialty?

GILMER-MOORE COMPANY
Represented by MISENHEIMER & PAYNE

PRINTING
Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, etc.

Watts
Caps, Shoes, Neckwear, Underwear, and Interwoven Sox, Ivory Garters

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

SCOFIELD’S
Carter’s Garage
Quick and efficient AUTO SERVICE
See us about that trip to Charlotte

COLLEGE RULES IN REGARD TO EXAMINATIONS

1. Every student shall take a written examination in each course at the end of each term.
2. If a student is compelled to be absent from an examination, he must obtain in advance written permission from the President, and must place this permission in the hands of the professor holding the examination.
3. Students who absent themselves from examination without previous permission or satisfactory excuse shall be given zero on that examination.
4. All students are required to be present promptly at the hour set for an examination, and the paper of any student who is more than ten minutes late will not be graded, unless the excuse for such tardiness is satisfactory to the professor.
5. Students may, with the permission of the professor in charge, withdraw from the examination room for a period not to exceed ten minutes. If this length of time be exceeded, the professor may refuse to accept the paper.

For all re-examinations or postponed examinations a fee of $2.00 each is charged, the fee to be paid in advance to the Treasurer of the College. All money so received shall be credited to the Societas Fratrum Loan Fund for needy students.

In case a student has conflicts in the examinations of two studies, he shall stand at the regular time the examination of the course which belongs in the class in which the student is classified. In case the conflict in examinations is between two studies, neither of which is in the class to which the student is classified, he shall stand with the higher class on the day of the examination.

Prompt and Efficient Service
New Line of Ladies’ & Children’s Shoes Consisting of Grover's and Shelley's, are open for your inspection, and are splendid values. Come in and let us fit you up for the whole family.

SENTELLE VISE

DR. SENTELLE ADVISES IN PREPARING FOR EXAMS.
Students, especially the new men, are often puzzled to know how to prepare for examinations. Dr. Sentelle makes the following general suggestions:

Cover the whole subject. Go over it all to refresh the details in the mind. Spotting is unsafe. If dailys and reviews have been studied this will not be cramming, but refreshing the memory. Utilize all the time of examinations. Do not wait till just before time for it to study and come in fifteen minutes late. Study hard the days before. Go on the examination fresh and with a clear brain. Do not stay up too late the night before, or study at all the morning of the examination. Get plenty of sleep and take plenty of exercise.Work hard the rest of the time. Armour Bros. & Thompson GOOD COAL Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with Cashier of Bank. C.L. GREY DAVIDSON, N. C.

Two dozen records have been added to the furnishings of the Social Center room. More games and publications are to be put in, and the room should prove a very attractive place. It is open from 8 in the morning till 10 at night, and a good fire is kept going all the time. Each and every man in the student body is cordially invited to make use of this room at any and all times. It was the idea of the Association in fitting up this room to make it an attractive center of the social life of the campus, and thus to fill a long-felt need at Davidson. It is to be hoped that each man in the student body will enter heartily into the spirit that made it possible for us to have this center for our campus life, and so make it a great force to knit the men of Davidson College more closely together.

Hotel Central CHARLOTTE, N. C. J. G. CARSON, Local Representative PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Anybody can cut the price, but it takes ability to produce a superior article. Headquarters For Davidson Men SOCIAL CENTER ITEMS. Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE A $50.00 Columbia Grafonola with Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music. 213 North Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

VOLUNTEER BAND NEWS. The Volunteer Band has been looking for some time to the deputation work which was done last Sunday. As last year, this consists in the various members going in pairs to the churches of the county and making missionary addresses. Owing to the few number of vacant pulpits and the proximity of examinations and the rush of reviews, only the following were able to go: Rankin and Farrior to Monroe, Dumas and Patton to Steele Creek, Meck and D. V. Hudson to Rocky River, and Cumming and McClure to Huntersville.

Clayton Hotel and Café W. Fifth Street Charlotte, N. C. Special attention shown to Davidson men. C.C. BROWN CHARLOTTE, N. C. Interior Decorator Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South. Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men L.B. LONG Dealer in Fancy Groceries

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS IS HONORED Prof. Julius W. Pratt (’08), of Raleigh, N. C., is editor of the “Books and Authors” department of the State Journal, published at Raleigh. Professor Pratt has the distinction of making the highest average in his work which has ever been made at Davidson, 99.11, for the four years. In addition to this, he was president of the student body during his Senior year and found time for other things outside of books. His success since leaving college has been quite marked, and the work in the State Journal is only a small part of his work, as he is Professor of English in A. and M. College at Raleigh.

Tuesday morning, the 16th, after chapel, the Virginia-Tennessee Club met to elect officers. The following officers were chosen: President, W. G. Somerville; vice-president, L. A. Chambliss; secretary and treasurer, J. R. Woods. These officers will serve for the rest of the school year.