The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 3, 1915. NO. 17

Davidson Will Attend Laymen’s Convention

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Plays Here Thursday

Student Body to Spend One Day in Charlotte.

Though all arrangements have not been completed, extensive plans are being made to have the entire Davidson student body attend
the Laymen's Convention which is to be held in Charlotte, February 16, 17, and 18. Since the theme chosen for
the second day of the convention, Wednesday, the 17th, is one that will be of particular interest to students, that
date has been selected by President Martin and the Faculty as the one on which the student body will be
urged to attend en masse. Special rates and a special train will be secured for the trip. The train will
leave early on the morning of the 17th, probably at 7:30 a.m., and will return that night after the conclusion
of the services of the day. Dr. Martin announces also that any of the students who desire to attend the
other exercises on Tuesday and Thursday will, upon application, have permission granted them to do so. In order to pay
necessary expenses, a fee of one dollar will be charged to those attending the convention, but an effort will be
made to have the student body exempted from this fee, and it is practically certain that they will not have
to pay it. Ample arrangements have been made for the entertainment of the great number of visitors who will attend
the convention from all sections of the country, and an interesting and highly beneficial program has been arranged.

The Laymen’s Movement, which has become of world-wide importance as a factor in Christian work, is, as its name indicates,
an organization of the lay members of the Church and has on its roll men in all walks of life
who are taking an intense interest in its work and aims and are deriving great and lasting benefit from it.
Since its conventions are held only every two years, the opportunity to attend should be taken advantage of by every
student who can do so, and all are urged to make plans to be present at some of the meetings
at least, if not at all of them.

NEW PLAN FOR MEETING OF Y. M. C. A. CABINETS

A new plan was started last Sunday by which the Y. M. C. A. cabinets will meet at certain times
at the home of each member of the faculty advisory board in turn. The meeting last Sunday night was at
the home of Dr. Sentelle, and was thoroughly enjoyed by each member of the cabinet. A report was given by
the chairman of each department of the work done up to the present time, and new plans and aims were
discussed. The help given by Dr. Sentelle is much appreciated by each member of the cabinet, and the new plan
is heartily endorsed.

ALUMNI BANQUET IN CHARLOTTE

On February 17, the second day of the Laymen’s Convention, a Davidson Alumni banquet will be held in Charlotte. The
exact details have not as yet been worked out. Dr. Lafferty is working the affair up and thinks it probable
that the banquet will be held at the Selwyn Hotel. Look for further particulars in next week's issue of THE
DAVIDSONIAN.

Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

There will be an important meeting of the Civic League at the league hall next Tuesday. All members are urged
to attend.

Dr. J. B. Shearer entered the Charlotte Sanitorium last Saturday for a week or ten days’ treatment.

Mr. Hugh Minter, who was operated on for appendicitis Monday, is recovering rapidly.

Mrs. D. F. Carver will attend the missionary conference in Charlotte as a delegate of the Methodist church.

Miss Esse Jetton has been ill with the LaGrippe for the past week, and Miss Callie Christenbury has taken her
place as teacher at the graded school.

Mr. John Fisher, of Rockingham, is a visitor here for a few days.

The missionary society will meet Thursday afternoon at the parsonage.

Rev. L. T. Mann, the presiding elder, will preach Sunday night at the Methodist church and hold the first quarterly
meeting.

Miss May Williamson and Miss Myrtle Holston are expected home this week.

Mrs. C. M. Carson and Mrs. S. T. Lott spent Friday afternoon as the guests of Mrs. Martin.

The Civic League has charge of the league hall, and the managers place it to the use of the town.

Mr. J. L. Mahan, of Harver Beach, Mich., was a visitor here for a few days last week.

The High School Literary Society met last Saturday morning. The program was an interesting debate on Woman Suffrage. The girls
advocated and the boys opposed it.

Mrs. J. N. Blain, of Kashing, China, has been visiting her sister and friends in town for the past week.
She gave an interesting and helpful talk to the ladies at their Praise Service last Thursday night.

Mrs. Arbuckle gave a tea on Monday, January 25, in honor of her cousin, Miss May Arbuckle, of Waynesboro, Va.,
who is visiting her.

Mrs. W. J. Martin gave a delightful luncheon in honor of Mrs. Charles Carson, of Charlotte, and Mrs. Lott, of
Winston-Salem, last Friday. The other guests were Mesdames Currie, Fulton, Worth, and Arbuckle, and Misses Arbuckle, McBryde, and Foreman.

Dr. Arbuckle was in Greensboro on Sunday presenting the claims and advantages of the Laymen's Missionary Convention which is to
be held in Charlotte in two weeks.

W. A. Dumas, of the Senior class, has been suffering for several days with an attack of grippe. His many
friends hope for a speedy recovery, however.

Davidson Five Meets “Green Machine” on Local Floor.

The sport loversof Davidson will be interested to learn that the management of the basketball team has completed arrangements for
the staging of a contest with the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. in the Gymnasium Thursday afternoon. This is a
new era for Davidson, an awakening of “pep” along a new line, for it has been many years since so
much interest has been taken in basketball here, and this will be the first game played on the Hill in
years. The Charlotte team comes here highly recommended as a fast, clean aggregation, and when the “Red and Black” quintet
meets the “Green Machine,” a fast and exciting game is promised. Charlotte has met both A. & M. and Trinity
this year, and each time has come out with the big end of the score in their favor. Stuart, who
has made such a record for himself at forward for Charlotte, will be seen in action on the local floor,
and he is considered one of the fastest and surest men in the State. Davenport, at center, is the pivot
on which the “Green Machine” works, and his playing will be watched with much interest. The game here Thursday is
a trial for Davidson basketball, and the interest taken by the student body will determine the life of the great
indoor sport. The team returned from a short trip last week, and, considering the amount of practice up to that
time, and the handicap of inferior equipment in the gymnasium, the trip was very successful. The loss of Somerville at
forward for the locals was very keenly felt, he being unable to make the trip. Since last week the team
has been getting in some hard practice and is fast rounding into shape. Davidson has always been a contender for
State championship in football and baseball, but little interest has been taken in basketball. All the schools in the State
are putting out strong teams, and Davidson must not be outdone. The team deserves hearty encouragement from the student body.

DAVIDSON CHESS CLUB ORGANIZED

One night last week the “Davidson College Chess Club" was organized. The following men were present and compose its charter
members: Alexander, Douglas, Halliburton, Hamilton, Henderson, Howard, Keesler, S. R., Knox, M. M., Knox, P. H., Morrison, Porter. The following
officers were elected: Halliburton, president; Douglas, vice-president; Henderson, secretary and treasurer. A schedule committee was appointed to plan a tournament
to take place soon after Junior Speaking. Several other men have joined since the initial meeting was held. Anyone wishing
to join should communicate with the president.

QUEENS COLLEGE CONCERT COMING IN MARCH

It is rumored that the Queens College Glee Club will appear at Davidson during Junior Speaking, but this is a
mistake. It is definitely ascertained, however, that it will come to Davidson about the latter part of March. The exact
date will be set later.

Class Championship Game Results in Tie

Juniors and Sophs Scrap Fiercely to 0-0 Score.

Last Saturday afternoon at 3:45 the Juniors and Sophs lined up to fight out the class football championship, and truly
it was a fight from beginning to end. There were very few long runs and forward passes executed, straight line
plunges seeming to be the mainstay of both teams. The Juniors were penalized almost the length of the field for
being off-side continually. Both teams fought like demons on the defense, but neither showed up much on the offense. The
fact that the game ended in a tie goes to prove that it was a battle royal. McKeithan and Pair
played the best game for the Juniors. Porter was decidedly the Sophs’ best ground gainer, while Ratchford played the best
offensive game for them.

First Quarter: The Sophs won the toss and chose to defend the southern goal. Alford kicked off to their five-yard
line, and Keesler failed to return. The Juniors held for a series of line plunges which were directed against it,
and then Sparrow blocked a punt and fell on the ball on the Sophs’ ten-yard line. But now that a
touchdown was fairly in sight, the Juniors seemed unable to push the ball over. The Sophs were fighting like fury
and held the Juniors for four downs; the ball went over, and the Sophs punted out of danger.

Second Quarter: The ball see-sawed up and down the field, neither side gaining enough ground to make the first down.
When the Sophs did make it, it was due to the fact that the Juniors were penalized. Both sides punted
most of the time.

Third Quarter: Juniors received the kick at the northern end of the field, and the Sophs were penalized five yards
for off-side. On the second kick Crawford returned fifteen yards. The Sophs tightened up and forced the Juniors to punt.
Pair and Sparrow downed Shane in his tracks. The Sophs were again unable to make first down, so they punted,
and Perry returned eight yards.

Fourth Quarter: Porter started the quarter with a forty-yard run, advancing the ball to the Juniors’ ten-yard line, but the
referee had blown his whistle, so he was called back. The Juniors held tight. Then Alford came near to repeating
Porter's performance, when he raced around the Sophs’ right end for thirty yards. Neisler then tore through the line for
ten more yards, but the time was up, and the game over.

Line-up:
Juniors. Position. Sophs.
Egerton ........ center....... Smith
McKeithan ..... r.g.. Mayfield
Payne .......... r.t.......... Finley
Pair ............ r.e.......... McLeod
Somerville ..... l.g.......... McMillan
Thomson ....... l.t.......... Miller
Sparrow ........ l.e.......... Mattison
Crawford ...... quarter....... Shane
Alford ......... r.h.b........ Porter
McNeill ........ l.h.b........ Ratchford
Perry .......... f.b.......... Keesler

Subs for Juniors: Copeland for Egerton, Craig for Payne, Hughes for Somerville, Mullen for Craig, Neisler for McNeill. Subs for
Sophs: Keesler for McMillan. Referee, Fetzer; Umpire, Crayton; Headlinesman, Booe. Time of quarters, 10 minutes.

See Our Trunk of New Sample Shoes at Ch. Rowland & McIntire.
