The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. 3.

Literary Societies Elect Marshals
Eus. Also Elect Officers For Second Term---Witt Chief Marshal.

At the regular Monday morning meeting of the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies, marshals for the collegiate year 1915-16 were
elected. Those elected in the Eumenean Society were: W. A. Dumas, L. G. Edgerton, G. B. Hoyt, and F. H.
Baker. The Philanthropic Society had the honor of selecting the chief marshal this year, and by a margin of one
vote, W. T. Witt was elected to that office. The assistant marshals selected were: J. H. Carson, W. C. Rourk,
S. T. Henderson, and A. B. Reese.

In the Eumenean Society, officers for the second term of the society year were elected as follows: President, J. G.
Patton; Vice-President, P. B. Price; Secretary, J. R. Woods; Reviewer, F. H. Smith.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

At the regular meeting last Thursday night, the Y. M. C. A. was favored with a talk by Dr. Rolston
of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Dr. Rolston spoke on “What It Means to Be a Christian.” He first
outlined the life and perfection of Christ and showed that it was inexplainable unless He was considered divine. Christians means
‘Christ's Ones.” A person is not a Christian unless he belongs to Christ. This includes not only faith but works.
He who is a Christian must love Him, talk with Him, surrender himself to Him. He must belong to Christ
altogether.

ATLANTA ALUMNI BANQUET SQUAD

One of the most delightful events of the trip to Atlanta was the banquet given to the Squad by the
Davidson Alumni of that city. It was under the management of Mr. Caldwell (‘01), who also acted as toastmaster. The
banquet was held in the Rainbow Room of the Rathskeller of Hotel Ansley. The following sumptuous menu was served:

Crab Flake Cocktail
Cream of Tomato, au Rize
Spanish Olives
Pineapple Fritters, au Maraschino
Stuffed Jersey Chicken
Brussels Sprouts, a l’Francaise
Merry Widow Salad
Pistachio Ice Cream and Assorted Cake
Coffee

After the banquet, the toastmaster introduced Mr. Parry, president of the Alumni Association. He welcomed the team to the city
of Atlanta and commended them for the “bulldog” fight they put up against Tech. The toastmaster then called upon Coach
Fetzer for a few remarks. In a pleasing manner, he thanked the Alumni for their hospitality and undivided support. The
Association presented each member of the Squad with a complimentary ticket to the Forsyth Theater, where an attractive bill was
rendered. Davidson Alumni everywhere are characterized for their loyalty, and those of Atlanta proved themselves still devoted sons of their
Alma Mater.

Doubles In Tournament Are Completed
Saunders and Alford Defeat Kennedy and Barnett.

The doubles of the annual tennis tournament were completed Monday morning. In one of the most interesting matches of the
doubles, Finley and Finley, the expected champions, were defeated by Barnett and Kennedy by the score of 4-6, 6-2, 6-4,
2-6, 6-3. Kennedy was serving in great style and the match was fast and featured by many good shots. Saunders
and Alford, playing a brilliant and steady game through many hard-fought matches, finished with the honors by defeating Barnett and
Kennedy in the finals Monday morning. The latter scores of the doubles are as follows:

Second round: Kennedy and Barnett defeated Keesler and Brown, 6-4, 6-0. Finley and Finley defeated Frazier and Cunningham, 6-3, 6-1.
Alford and Saunders defeated Jones and Robson, 7-5, 6-4. Hudson and Woods, F., defeated White and Mayfield, 6-1, 6-4.

Semi-finals: Kennedy and Barnett defeated Finley and Finley, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, 2-6, 6-3. Alford and Saunders defeated Hudson and Woods,
F., 6-4, 6-4.

Finals: Alford and Saunders defeated Barnett and Kennedy, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-1.

On account of the rain, the doubles were delayed, and consequently, the singles were not begun until Monday afternoon, only
three matches being played Monday. These were as follows: Richardson defeated Douglas 11-4, 7-5, 6-3. Finley, T., defeated Mayfield, 6-1,
6-0. Kennedy defeated Keesler, W. P., 6-0, 4-6, 6-1. The remainder of the singles matches are to be completed during
the coming week.

WOFFORD COMES TO THE HILL SATURDAY

Saturday, the Red and Black Machine will match her strength against that of Wofford, on the Hill. Indications are that
it will be an easy victory for Davidson. This is only the second year in Wofford’s football life. They have
lost several of their best men this year, among whom was “Rutt” Osborne. Mimms at tackle seems to be doing
well. They have been without a regular coach for several weeks lately, but John Mills took the team in hand
Saturday before last and is trying to whip it into shape. Should Davidson show the “pep” she showed at Atlanta,
she will repeat the score of last year, 86 to 6.

SATURDAY'S RESULTS.

In view of the fact that we have recently played the following teams or will play them during the present
season, the results of the games Saturday in which they were engaged will prove of interest. They were as follows:

Washington and Lee 27, Marshall College 0.
Clemson 3, Univ. of Tenn. 0.
Roanoke College 0, A. & M. 0.
Univ. of S. C. 41, S. C. Pres. Col. 0.
Univ. of N. C. 35, Wake Forest 0.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 13, 1915.

Annual Campaign Was Started Last Night
Dr. Chapman and Party Arrived on the Hill Yesterday Morning.and their assistants. Davidson is this week experiencing one of the
greatest opportunities in its history. Preparation has long been under way for the meetings, by floor prayer meetings, etc., and
everything possible has been done to ensure their success. The Chapman party, which arrived Tuesday, includes Dr. and Mrs. Chapman,
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander, Mr. Brown (soloist), and Mr. Baraclough (pianist). They are staying at the home of Dr. Martin,
and Mr. and Mrs. Alexander are at Dr. Arbuckle’s. Assisting these leaders are Dr. Rolston, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Charlotte, who addressed the Y.M.C.A. last Thursday night, and Vim Pharr, the ex-Davidson football and baseball star, who
is now a student at Union Theological Seminary.

The meetings were opened by a “prayer and praise” service held Monday night, and led by Mr. Pharr. Special sacred
music by the orchestra was a feature of the meeting that was much enjoyed. Mr. Pharr took as the text
of his talk, Luke 19:10: “For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was
lost,” the concluding verse of the story of Zaccheus and the sycamore tree. Mr. Pharr brought out the dominant features
of the story in three C's: Curiosity, Christ, Change. He emphasized these points, and the meeting closed with about thirty
sentence prayers for the success of the meetings. Announcement was made that the first meeting to be held by Dr.
Chapman would be Tuesday night in the chapel. On Wednesday and Thursday, chapel service is to be omitted, each recitation
period shortened ten minutes, and the hour from 10:20 to 11:30 is to be given over to the hearing of
a message from Dr. Chapman in the chapel. At 4 o'clock each of these days there will be a service
in the church, to which the general public is invited and will be cordially welcomed. Each night, beginning Tuesday, there
will be a meeting in the chapel at 7:15 for the students, and every man is urged to attend. Special
emphasis is being laid on the private interviews with the leaders for (Continued on page 4).

Interviews can be arranged through the Secretaries as follows:
Dr. Chapman: Secretary, W. G. Somerville; Place, Kappa Sigma Hall.
Mr. Alexander: Secretary, J. G. Patton; Place, Kappa Alpha Hall.
Mr. Tim Pharr: Secretary, A. B. Reese; Place, Pi Kappa Alpha Hall.
Dr. Rolston: Secretary, W. A. Dumas; Place, Pi Kappa Phi Hall.
Mr. Brown: Secretary, T. J. Mitchell; Place, Bachelor's Hall.

Interviews can be secured from 11:30 to 12:30, 2:30 to 3:30, and after the night meetings.

Dr. and Mrs. Chapman are: No. 5.

Yellow Jackets Have to Fight Hard to Win
Superior Weight of Tech Team Tells in Third Quarter.

In the game played last Saturday, Tech, though expecting a reasonably hard game, did not seem to realize just how
hard they would have to work for their victory until the third quarter rolled around. Though the Red and Black
team was outweighed many pounds to the man, they outplayed the heavier Jacket aggregation during the first half of the
game, and Tech supporters began to get nervous. At the end of this half the score stood Davidson 7, Tech
0. Davidson’s lone touchdown came in the second quarter when Struppa fumbled one of Walker's punts and the ball was
recovered by Black who went 25 yards for a touchdown. Gray kicked goal. Davidson held Tech well until the third
quarter. In this stage of the game, the weight of the Tech team began to tell, and short end runs,
mixed with line bucks, and some beautiful forward passes, resulted in two touchdowns and the placing of the ball within
striking distance of the goal posts, from which point it was carried over a third time soon after the fourth
quarter had opened. This ended the scoring for both teams as the Red and Black took a brace and held
their opponents till the end of the game. Most of Tech's principal gains were made on forward passes, which placed
the ball within reach of the Davidson goal. Davidson tried only four passes and only one of them was successful.
Both teams made attempts at field goals but none of them were successful here either. For Davidson, the punting of
C. Walker, the line plunging of Laird, Black, and Keesler were the features. For Tech, Spence's line bucking, end runs
by Fielder, and the playing of Johnston and Senter were the best features. In the report of the game in
the Atlanta Constitution, the following will be of interest: “Davidson lived up to the impression that they had created of
having a fast and well-developed team. Although outweighed many pounds to the man, they fought the heavier Jacket eleven gamely,
only losing out in the second half when their strength began to ebb. Davidson started off with a rush and
gave Tech supporters some anxious moments during the second half. The Davidson bunch impressed everyone with their clean and sportsmanlike
manner of playing, the men doing the cleanest tackling seen on Grant Field in many seasons. Here's hoping that their
relations with Tech will continue in the future.”

The line-up of the teams was as follows:
Davidson. Position. Tech.
R. Walker. Goree, Dunwoody, Guill left end
Miller. Alexander left tackle
Grey. Reynolds, Preas left guard
B. White. Phillips, Barnwell center
(Continued on page 4)
