The Davidsonian, November 3, 1915

“SENIOR SPEAKING.”

Preparations for Senior Speaking are now well under way and from present indications the exercises this year will be of
unusual interest. There are nearly fifty speeches to be delivered and the subjects have already been handed in to Mr.
Frank Smith, class president. Invitations have been ordered from the Everett Waddy Co., of Richmond, and are expected here by
the 15th of this month. W. T. Witt, chief marshal, states that the regalias have also been ordered from the
Horsemann Co., of Philadelphia, and that they are expected to arrive within ten days.

SENIOR GIFT.

Each year the graduating class presents the college with a gift which is to be a memorial to the class
and one that will ornament the campus and be of some practical use to the students. This year a committee
appointed by the president of the class of '16 is at work trying to solve the problem in regard to
the nature of the present, and it is safe to say that when it is placed in the hands of
the college it will be one that will do honor to the class of '16.

LECTURE ON WHISTLER.

Before a small but appreciative audience, Dr. W. L. Hill, a North Carolina poet, gave a most interesting lecture on
“Recollections of Jas. McNeill Whistler,” on Monday night, the 25th. Dr. Hill came to Davidson at the invitation of the
Blue Pencil Club, which is endeavoring to bring before the student body a series of lectures on literary and allied
subjects. At the conclusion of the lecture, Dr. Hill read some of his own poems, which showed real merit, and
were much enjoyed.

JUNIORS DEFEAT FRESH

(Concluded from page 1)

Many of the opponents’ passes. Most of the shooting was done by Young and Nisbet for the Juniors, and Hall
and Nimocks for the Freshmen. The line-up was as follows:

Juniors (21) Position Fresh (13)
Nisbet..................Potts
Young..................McAskill
Forwards
Porter..................Williamson
Center
Murray..................Hall
Craig..................Nimocks
Guards

Referee: Childs.

The game between the Seniors and the Sophs which was to have been played Monday afternoon was postponed. The summary
of the games follows:

Won Lost Per cent.
Sophs 3 0 1.000
Juniors 2 2 .500
Fresh 2 2 .500
Seniors 1 3 .250

CAROLINA SECRETARY

(Concluded from page 1)

Few sleepy moments at night tend to become mechanical, while prayer in the morning when the mind is fresh and
unoccupied is real. “The Morning Watch helps a man through the day; it draws him nearer to God, it helps
him overcome temptation, and it makes him strong.” Prayer blesses him who prays and all those about him. It makes
a man an influence for good and against evil. Finally, prayer is the source of power from above and the
only source. The Morning Watch must be regular. The talk was made very impressive and clear by a large number
of apt illustrations and analogies.

MRS. JOHN F. CALDWELL.

It was an occasion of great grief to her many friends and relatives when Mrs. Ela Sloan Caldwell died last
Wednesday, the 27th, at her home on Concord Street. Death came after a long illness of about seven weeks, in
which Mrs. Caldwell suffered greatly. She was a daughter of the late James Lee Sloan, Sr., of this city, a
man of prominence and a large landowner. In December, 1878, she was married to Mr. John F. Caldwell, residing in
this city. Mrs. Caldwell was an invalid during the latter years of her life, but she retained an interest in
the affairs of the church and of the community at large and was always devoted to her husband and children.
She was for years a member of the Presbyterian church of this place; a woman of sterling qualities, and a
devoted wife and mother.Funeral services were conducted last Thursday morning, followed by interment in the local cemetery. Mrs. Caldwell is
survived by her husband, and three sons: Roy Caldwell, of Davidson; Gregg Caldwell, of Hickory; and Harry Caldwell, of Davidson.
She is also survived by her sister, Mrs. Samuel Cowan, and her brother, James Lee Sloan, of Davidson. The entire
community extends sympathies to the family in its sad bereavement.

TOWN ITEMS.

Rev. T. H. Spence ('96), of Smithfield, N. C., spent Saturday at Davidson en route to Cleveland, where he was
to preach Sunday.

Dr. and Mrs. C. A. Munroe, of Hickory, are visiting their daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas. Dr. Munroe has just
returned from the meeting of Synod in Gastonia.

The Davidson faculty was represented at the North Carolina Synod at Gastonia by President Martin and Professor Lingle. Dr. W.
L. Lingle (’92), of Union Theological Seminary, and president of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, was chosen moderator
of the Synod in Gastonia.

Miss Ellinwood, of New York, has arrived to spend the winter at Davidson. Her mother will follow in a few
days.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle and children returned Saturday from St. Louis, where they have been visiting Mrs. Lingle’s mother.

Mrs. Maria Howard, of Charlottesville, Va., is visiting her niece, Mrs. J. Moore McConnell.

Miss Gretchen Moore will spend the winter with Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Mrs. James Wheary returned Friday from Salisbury, where she has been visiting her son, Mr. William Overton.

The Boys’ Missionary Band held its first meeting of the winter at Mrs. Lingle’s home Monday afternoon.

Mrs. W. G. Vardell is visiting Greenville, S. C.

Dr. C. G. Vardell was in town last week on a brief visit to his sister, Mrs. W. J. Martin.

Miss Naomi Fithian is visiting Mrs. W. J. Martin.

Mrs. C. M. Carson, of Charlotte, is visiting Mrs. W. J. Martin.

Mrs. A. Currie entertained Monday with a party in honor of Mrs. P. B. Fetzer and Mrs. Orr.

Davidson Lawn

SUPERIOR QUALITY 25 cents

The Rexall Store

Prescriptions a Specialty

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.

COME IN, BOYS.

This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds.” Your trade is
appreciated.

L. A. ELLIOT

EAT AT THE HOTEL BUFFINE, The Flyless Restaurant. Also Auto Service.

We have a full line of Note Books, Note Book Fillers, and Dixie Tablets. Your Prescriptions are always compounded with
the best drugs. Sales Agents for Huyler’s Candies.

(DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING

Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES

Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

Jetton Drug Co.

74 N. BROAD STREET

STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C. — Greensboro, N. C.

HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N. C.

WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - Raleigh, N. C.

TORRENCE & HELPER

HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

REAL SPORT DEMANDS SPALDING QUALITY.

No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for
the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and
indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready. Our Fall and Winter Catalogue
shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.

ATLANTA, GA

The COMMISSARY

Give your Shoe Repair Work to JOHNSON & MEEKS

Davidson College

Representing SHU-FIXERY

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP

RUTLEDGE MORTON, Prop.

Next door to Post Office
