4 <<< DR. CRAWFORD GIVES SPLENDID ACCOUNT OF WAR FRONT

The war situation from a new angle was presented to the student body last Thursday night by Dr. R. H.
Crawford, one of Davidson’s loyal sons. Dr. Crawford, who was a member of the class of ’10, is a recent
graduate of Johns Hopkins University, and since his graduation has been a member of the American Red Cross unit stationed
in Poland. His hospital there was a converted theatre, whose capacity was about one hundred and seventy patients. He was
frequently in danger of being shot as a spy because he was unable to speak German, and was therefore forced
to use English. Since his return to America he has not hesitated to tell the truth concerning the conditions in
the German frontier and in their field hospitals; and for that reason is now prohibited from ever entering Germany again
during the war. Dr. Crawford’s description of life along the firing lines, of the Kaiser and his staff, and of
the terrible human toll of this gigantic struggle held spellbound the large crowd of students and townspeople who had assembled
to hear him. Battle news from an eye witness proved tremendously interesting to them, and their attention was perfect.

WM. J. BRYAN TO LECTURE IN CHARLOTTE MONDAY

Monday night, November 15, at 8:30 o'clock, Hon. Wm. J. Bryan will lecture at the Charlotte Auditorium, his subject being
“The War In Europe and the Lessons For Us.” Mr. David Ovens, President of the Chamber of Commerce, will preside,
and Dr. Wm. J. Martin, President of Davidson College, will introduce the speaker. The Davidson College Orchestra and Glee Club
will furnish music for the occasion. A special train to Charlotte and return has been arranged, starting at Mooresville, and
will leave Davidson at 6:25. Price for round trip from Davidson, 80 cents. The price of admission will be 25
cents, with 25 cents extra for reserved seats. A block of tickets for the Davidson boys will be on sale
at the Auditorium. Returning, the special train will leave Charlotte at 10:30 p.m.

COMING CAROLINA GAME

The annual Davidson-Carolina football game will be played in Winston-Salem, Saturday. The Red and Black is in tip-top shape and
eager to meet the Tar Heels. Keesler, who has been out of the game during the past week on account
of an injured shoulder, will be back in the game in his old-time form. McAlister will probably not be able
to play on account of an injury to his hand received in the Furman game. Aside from this, the team
has come through a very heavy season with excellent luck. The Davidson men have shown superior training in every game
played. The Carolina team suffered a great loss in the Clemson game last Saturday when Jones broke his collar bone.
Dave Tayloe and Tandy will probably be back in the line-up Saturday. Carolina will considerably outweigh Davidson in the line,
but they have not shown the old-time snap and fight of previous years; their backfield is also slow in getting
off. Only in the Clemson game last Saturday did they exhibit an occasional spurt of their old-time fight. The Tar
Heels will also have a slight edge on the Red and Black in their drop kicking. The Davidson student body
will leave Saturday morning on the 8:45 train, arriving in Winston at 11:30; returning on a special that night that
will leave about 9 o'clock, reaching Davidson about 11:45 p.m. The round trip fare will be $1.75, and admission to
the game 50 cents. On to Winston!

SENIOR SPEAKING PLANS (Concluded from page 1)

E. J. McIntyre (Phi.), Wilmington, N. C., Our Naval Advisory Board.
A. M. McKeithen (Phi.), Cameron, N. C., Triumphs of Modern Medicine.
J. D. McLeod (Phi.), Carthage, N. C., The Intellectual Superiority of Greek.
T. R. McNeill (Phi.), Fayetteville, N. C., Powers of Imagination.
H. W. Ormand (Phi.), Bessemer City, N. C., Fixation of Nitrogen.
J. G. Patton (Eu.), Decatur, Ga., “I’m Pretty Much of a Fool.”

SATURDAY AFTERNOON

J. L. Payne (Phi.), Washington, N. C., The Silver Link.
R. Perry (Eu.), Easley, S. C., The Weltpolitik of Germany.
W. C. Rourk (Phi.), Wilmington, N. C., The Perils of Prosperity.H. A. Scott (Eu.), Fort Smith, Ark., The Guiding Principle.
D. Shaw (Phi.), Fayetteville, N. C., America’s Present Opportunity.
F. H. Smith (Eu.), Easley, S. C., Clefts in the War Clouds.
W. G. Somerville (Eu.), Mitchells, Va., Artificiality in College Life.
T. D. Sparrow (Phi.), Washington, N. C., The Progressive South.
W. P. Thomson, Rock Hill, S. C., The Real Work of Napoleon.
J. P. Williams (Eu.), Chattanooga, Tenn., Municipal Ownership.
J. T. Williams (Fu.), Stuart, Va., General J. F. B. Stuart.
W. H. Witt (Phi.), Mt. Airy, N.C., A Plea for the Classics.

PRES. CURRELL PROMISES
(Concluded from page 1)

Carolina University to state that the members of the team were eligible under their own rules. “The offer of the
chairman of the Davidson Athletic Committee ‘To play this game free of charge, if any member of the faculty would
state that the members of the team are eligible,’ has not been accepted by the South Carolina authorities, though for
obvious financial reasons, the game was one very much desired.

REVIEW OF THE MAGAZINE.

The first issue of the Davidson College Magazine for the year has just appeared, and has been greeted with mingled
feelings of pride and disappointment. It is well balanced with fiction, essay and poetry, altogether making a most creditable showing;
and aside from a few typographical errors and misspellings, puts up the best appearance of any Magazine in recent years.
Its greatest defect is its brevity. Quoting from its editorial page, the Magazine “this year, instead of being a monthly,
... will be a college quarterly, i.e., it will appear four times during the nine months’ term. ... The bulk
of the yearly volume will be practically the same as heretofore.” In the face of this statement, the Magazine is
notably small; at least no larger than its predecessors. The primary cause is the lack of contributions worthy of publication,
which fault rests on the student body and the associate editors rather than on the editor-in-chief.

The Magazine is the official publication of the literary societies, and as such is worthy of their whole-hearted support. To
permit the publishing of a single issue of small size because of lack of that support is a blot on
the name of the societies. The student body heartily backs The Davidsonian, but they should not let that backing, however
good in itself, act as a detriment to the Magazine. Davidson needs them both. Davidson can support them both. And
Davidson will not let either fail.

The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
Prescriptions a Specialty

COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc.
Special attention given to “Feeds”
Your trade is appreciated
L. A. ELLIOT

THE HAT HOTEL
The Flyless Restaurant
TORRENCE & HELPER
HOTEL LELAND, - - Danville, Va.
Also Auto Service

We have a full line of Note Books, Note Book Fillers and Dixie Tablets.
Your Prescriptions are always compounded with the best drugs.
Jetton Drug Co.
Sales Agents for Huyler’s Candies

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N.C.
WRIGHT'S HOTEL, - Raleigh, N. C.

J. P. SANDERS, President

SPALDING QUALITY.
No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for
the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and
indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready. Our Fall and Winter Catalogue
shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA

The COMMISSARY
Give your Shoe Repair Work
To JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP
RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop.
Next door to Post Office
