The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2.

Junior Speaking to News and Happenings Begin Thursday Night of the Week in Town Fine Program Arranged --- Large Social
and Personal Items About Davidson Five Will Play Off Tie | First Game of Season Will Attract Number of Visitors
Expected.

The annual Junior Oratoricals will be inaugurated next Thursday night when six Juniors and six Seniors who were unable to
make their Junior speeches last year will deliver their orations. The exercises will continue from Friday afternoon on through Saturday
afternoon, interspersed with a basketball game, baseball game, gymnasium exhibit, orchestra concert, and receptions. Friday afternoon at 4 o'clock a
baseball game will be played between the Davidson team and a team of “All Stars.” Saturday noon there will be
a hot basketball game with the Charlotte “Green Machine.” Saturday afternoon after the exercises the annual gymnasium exhibit will be
given, and that night the Orchestra and Glee Club will furnish an entertainment. After this, receptions will be given to
the visiting ladies. A large number of ladies are expected to be on the Hill for this Spring social event.

The following young ladies are expected for the Junior Oratoricals to be held March 5 and 6, and their coming
is anticipated with an eagerness which is unexcelled. The following ladies will come on bids from the respective fraternities:

Kappa Alpha: Miss Louise Wylie, Lancaster, S. C.; Miss Louise Mason, Miss Margaret Coles, the Misses Mary Stuart, Abigail, Elizabeth,
and May Beverly Alexander, Miss Annie Dewe Chambers, Miss Eugenia Russell, Miss Mildred Finlayson, Miss Harriet Orr of Charlotte, N.
C.; Miss Genevieve Holden, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Miss Mattie Packard, Baltimore, Md.; Miss Marion Yount, Statesville, N. C.; Miss
Nan Rugheimer, Charleston, S. C.; Mr. Jack Horner, Charlotte, N. C., and Mr. J. W. Williamson, of Graham, N.C.

Kappa Sigma: Miss Nell Somerville and Miss Helen Peyton, Rapidan, Va.; Miss Evelyn Blake and Miss Susie Coles, of Charlotte;
Miss Katherine McDonald, Charlotte; Miss Virginia Wiggins, Miss Ruth Critz, Miss Serena Dalton, and Miss Margaret Fletcher, of Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Miss Meriam Sadler, Columbia, S. C.; Miss Mary Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Gene Lindsay, Camden, S. C.;
Miss Adelaide Johnston, Hickory, S. C.; Miss Lynn Richardson, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Susie Blackman, Columbus, Ga.; Miss Carrie Cartright,
Yorkville, S. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Margaret Sellers, Virgil Sellers, Essie Hagood, and Sarah Smith, of Easley, S.C.; Miss Louise O’Farrell, Kings
Mountain, N. C.; Miss Ernestine Nuttall, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Miss Donalda Hagan, New York; Miss Pauline Prentiss, Greenville, S.
C.; Miss Elizabeth Nicholson, Salisbury, N. C.; Miss Daisy Belk, Monroe, N. C.; Miss Mamie Greer, Florence, S. C.; Miss
Annabelle Williams, Red Springs, S. C.; Miss Mary Wilkes, Laurens, S. C.; Miss Gladys McKinnon, Ga.

Beta Theta Pi: Mrs. Ada Engle, Charlotte, N. C.; Misses Corinne Gibbon, Catherine Steele, Margaret Hill, Mildred and Alleine Butts,
Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Daise Wilkins, Gaffney, S. C.; Miss Ellen Shepherd, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Sue Duffey, Sumter, S.
C.; Miss Gladys Laney, Monroe, N.C.; Miss Sarah Wooten, Davidson, N. C.; Miss Sadie Lipscomb, Gaffney, S. C.; Miss Teresa
McCubbins, Salisbury, N. C.; Miss Lucile Greene, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Miss Mary Parks Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth McGill, Richmond,
Va.

Pi Kappa Phi: Miss Anna M. Faucette, Burlington, N. C.; Miss Cordie Parker, Concord, N. C.; the Misses Efirds and
Hines, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Misses Rose Hawkins, Bessie Le Flore, and Bonnie Orr, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Meryl Booe, Davidson,
N. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Miss Ruth Chatfield, Waterbury, Conn.; Miss Mary Stark Watkins, Anderson, S. C.; Miss Jessie Williford, Concord, N.
C.; Miss Charlotte Harrell, Cheraw, S. C.; Miss Annie Laurie Wicker, Elon, N. C.; Miss Lois Anderson, Anderson, S. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 3, 1915.

Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Plays Here Saturday With “Green Machine.”

In what promises to be one of the fastest and hardest-fought games of basketball ever played in the State, the
Davidson quintette will hook up next Saturday with the “Green Machine,” representing the Y. M. C. A. of Charlotte.

The Village People.

The Woman's Missionary Society will meet Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock in the Civic League Hall.

Dr. Richards preached in Marion, S. C., on Sunday, and is visiting friends there.

Miss Mary Young returned home Monday night after visiting in Salisbury and Concord.

Miss Ida Lathers, of New York, will arrive Wednesday evening to be the guest of Prof. and Mrs. Lingle until
after Junior Speaking.

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. L. Beatty left for Charlotte Monday to make their home. Dr. Beatty will be manager
of the Beatty Drug Company, a new store to be opened in the new Latta Arcade building.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss Hattie Thompson Friday afternoon. The subject was Modern American Composers.

Dr. Thomas Lingle preached in Mooresville Sunday for Dr. Wilson, who conducted services in Concord.

Dr. Wilson was in town for a short while Monday.

Miss Louise Potts has returned from a four months’ stay in Florida.

Rev. J. G. Garth and son, of Hickory, N.C., were on the Hill one day last week.

Mr. Vernon Johnston is leaving the last of next week for Petersburg, Va., where he goes in business with the
Poe Hardware Co.

The items of news which were dropped in the box in the post office last week were much appreciated. The
Davidsonian is looking for more news next week. It is suggested that you sign your name to the items in
order to avoid confusion.

MOVING PICTURES.

The moving picture machine has been lately thoroughly repaired and is now in better condition than ever before. It is
hoped by the management that the students will support this “home industry” more than they have in the past, as
every effort is exerted to secure the best shows available.game, which will be played at high noon, 12 o'clock, is
the third of a series between these two teams, each having a victory to its credit. The deciding battle will
be bitterly fought to the last blow of the whistle. It is hard to foretell the outcome of the game,
but the Davidson five will have the edge on their opponents as the game will be played on their home
floor. The Charlotte team, however, has one of the strongest basketball teams in the State, having defeated Trinity, A &
M., Union Seminary, Salisbury, and Statesville. Captain Stewart, of this team, is considered one of the best forwards in North
Carolina. His goal shooting has won many games for Charlotte. The Davidson team has been undergoing strenuous practice for this
game, and when the whistle blows next Saturday it will be in the pink of condition. The student body and
visitors will have the opportunity to see the Red and Black team in the best of form on the local
floor. Captain Somerville’s goal shooting, Al Reese's floor work, and the long boy, “Dutch” Hengeveld’s jump at center, are worth
seeing any day. The success of basketball next year depends on the interest which the game receives this year, and
it is hoped that a hearty support will be given this last game of this season.

TRACK MEETS PLANNED. Davidson has many good track men on the Hill this year, and it is sincerely hoped that
some good meets can be arranged for this Spring. For various reasons, track work has not aroused as much interest
hitherto as it should at Davidson. It is a form of athletics which is available to every man, and which
will bring rich returns to every man who trains to the best of his ability. Manager Johnson announces that the
University of South Carolina will give Davidson a meet at Columbia this Spring provided that Davidson gives them a return
meet at Davidson this Spring also. It is hoped that the Athletic Association and the Student Body will support this
proposition in order that this excellent form of athletics may advance in interest and not decline.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRESSING. The next volume of “Quips and Cranks” will be ready, it is hoped, about the 20th of
April. Foote & Davies Co., of Atlanta, has charge of the printing, and this year’s Annual will probably surpass all
its predecessors. A novel feature has been employed in the Senior section, the nature of which will remain a profound
secret until the Annual is published. One fact especially is being stressed by the editors—that this year there will be
no extra copies left, and that everyone who wishes to get an Annual had best sign up for one immediately.
Sympathy is extended to ‘Jim’ McEachern ('12), who has recently lost his mother.

NO. 21 Varsity and “All-Stars” Meet Friday Much Interest. Arrangements have been completed for a Varsity "All-Star" game of baseball
to be pulled off at Sprunt Athletic Field, Friday afternoon, the game to be called promptly at 3:30 p.m. This
will be an added feature to the Junior Speaking gaieties and the game is to be one of the regular
dates of the occasion. The “All-Stars” is to be made up of good ball players, and several well-known baseball celebrities
will be on the nine. Carl Cashion, an old Davidson star in both football and baseball, will hold down the
initial bag. For several years Cashion was one of Clark Griffith's mainstays on the mound. Since leaving the Washington Americans,
he has been playing with Indianapolis. Harry Caldwell (of Morganton fame) will play second. For several summers he has played
with this town, where he is noted for his good fielding and heavy slugging. Everett Booe, another Davidson star, will
be seen on short. Booe played two years with Fred Clarke’s Pittsburgh Nationals. He jumped to the Feds last season,
and made an enviable record with Indianapolis, the pennant winners of that league. Booe reports at their training camp in
Valdosta, Ga., in a short time. Third base will be held down by “Pete” Crayton, last year’s captain. Crayton has
played with Morristown in the Appalachian, and Dillon in the Pee Dee League. Coach Fetzer will do the catching for
the “All-Stars.” After playing on both the football and baseball teams at Davidson, he managed and played with several teams
in the Virginia League, where he holds the record for the longest ball hit, and with Charlotte in the Carolina
League. The outer garden will be filled by Frank Stough; Cashion, of Huntersville, brother of Carl Cashion, and Spencer Cranford,
who played for Concord last year. Donaldson will decorate the mound for the All-Stars. He is a twirler of some
repute, and did good work for Asheville last year. With such a team as this, the Varsity will have its
hands full. This is the first time the students have had the opportunity to see their team in action, and
the bleachers will doubtless be crowded. Lawson, Hengeveld, and Groom will all probably work during the game. Coach Fetzer has
done unusually fine work, and Davidson has the prospects of a good season. It is up to every student to
be out and back him and the team in this first game. Show them you are behind them and stick
with them throughout the season. Under the direction of Manager Shaw and his assistants, Finley and Hill, the field is
in unusually good condition for this early in the season. Season tickets will be good for this game, and the
admission for non-holders and for ladies will be twenty-five cents.

Jack McCaskill, who has been confined in the Charlotte Sanatorium for some time with serious throat trouble, has gone to
his home in Bainbridge, Ga. It is not known whether or not he will be able to return to college
this year.

CUMMING & FARRIOR.--Suits That Suit. 36 Chambers.
