The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II.

Senior Oratorical Exercises Best That Have Yet Been Held

Varied Array of Subjects All Showed Good Preparation---Other Entertainments

The European War naturally furnished themes for the greater part of the speeches in the recent Senior Oratorical exercises, and
our own part in the future world affairs proved to be a favorite topic for the prophetic abilities of the
class. Preparedness seemed to be the class hobby; for in one breath the nation was urged to preserve peace, and
to arm for possible war. This was especially true of the Friday afternoon section. The Philanthropic Society dominated the afternoon
events, and showed evidences of its good training.

Friday night was as a whole the best of the entire speaking. Farrior and Finley were united in their denunciation
of Equal Suffrage, and Finley’s picture of woman’s present dominance over the masculine element of the species drew a laugh
from the audience. Hay’s biography of Tolstoi was a gem of its kind, and Law’s philosophical oration on Memory carried
the listeners high in the realms of oratory and imagination. Hollister made the “hit” of the evening by his plucky
repetition of a good oration on Turkey’s precarious position in the status of international affairs. The lights went out in
the middle of his speech, because of the rainstorm, and though he was willing to finish it, at Dr. McConnell's
suggestion he repeated it entire when the lights reappeared.

Saturday morning's audience had the pleasure of hearing some of Sixteen’s strongest speakers. Mullins’ delivery of his defense of Wilson
and denunciation of Bryan, under the title of “Et tu, Brute,” left nothing to be desired. W. G. Morrison and
H. W. Ormond, on College Educational Defects and Nitrogen, respectively, held the audience easily until the conclusion of their speeches.
The feature of the morning was easily J. G. Patton's speech on the Prohibition question under the subject “I’m Pretty
Much of a Fool.” Patton is the winner of last year's Junior Orator’s medal, and will undoubtedly be a strong
contestant for the Senior Orators’ medal.

The afternoon session brought its share of good oratory as well. Smith’s speech, “Clefts in the War Clouds,” a plea
for peace, was perhaps the best speech of the entire program. Perry, on Germany's “Weltpolitik,” and Sparrow, on the South,
also played stellar roles in this session. This trio are all strong speakers, and are among the foremost in the
forensic exercises on the campus. As a whole, the class of 1916 proved itself stronger along oratorical lines than any
in several years. From its ranks are sure to come some who will reflect glory on old Davidson. Their exercises
were a tremendous success, and their congratulations were well won.

Y. M. C. A. RECEPTION

The informal reception given by the Y. M. C. A. last Friday night in place of the usual Faculty Reception
to the Senior Class, and held in the new Social Center, was in the nature of a house-warming and opening
of the Center. The walls were tastefully decorated with pennants and pictures. Immediately upon the termination of the orations in
Shearer Hall, the reception was held. Soon the hall was filled with a gay assembly, and a pleasant few hours
were spent by all. During the evening cream and cakes were served.

This Social Center hall is expected to fill a great need here at Davidson in providing a place where the
fellows can meet together for amusement or discussion, and it is hoped that the students will take advantage of this
new opportunity. The room will be kept warm, and magazines will be placed there. The thanks of the student body
are tendered to the ladies of the town who so kindly aided in decorating and equipping the room, and to
Dr. Arbuckle for his gift of a stove.

BASKETBALL GAME

A very interesting exhibition game of basketball was played on Saturday afternoon between the Sophs and the Fresh. The game
was fast and until the last it seemed that the Fresh would certainly win. The score at the end of
the first half was 11 to 6 in favor of the Fresh. But in the last half the Sophs began
to pull up and the game ended with the Sophs leading by a score of 18 to 15. The game
was watched by a large number of the visiting young ladies. The line-up was as follows:

Sophs (18) Position Fresh (15)
Childs........... Forward .... Nimocks
King............. Forward .... Davenport
Worth........... Center ...... Potts
Walker.......... Guard ....... McAskill
Verrell.......... Guard ....... Boswell

Referee, Perry (16). Attendance, about 60.

GYM EXHIBITAt the close of the Oratorical Exercises Saturday evening, the Gym Team gave their annual exhibition. A large crowd
of visiting ladies and students watched the performance. The team was largely composed of last year’s men who went through
the program without a hitch until they reached the last number on the program, horizontal bar work, when, as fate
would have it, the bar broke. The work of Minter and Alford as clowns added very much to the amusement
of the evening. (Continued on page 4)

RECEPTION AND CONCERT AT QUEENS COLLEGE

The Davidson students who attended the reception at Queens College following the concert given by the Davidson Orchestra and Glee
Club were privileged to spend a most enjoyable evening. The program for the concert, including both Orchestra and Glee Club
selections, consisted of thirteen numbers, the last number being a Glee Club selection written by McIlwaine, of the class of
1915. Many of the selections received a hearty, vigorous encore. After the concert, a reception was tendered in the parlors
of the main building. Punch was served in the reception rooms, on each side of the main hall. The hospitable
style in which the Queens girls entertained the Davidson boys leaves pleasant memories of a pleasantly spent evening.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 1, 1915. No. 12.

Davidson Concludes Successful Season by Defeating Wake Forest

Opponents Unable to Stop Rush of Red and Black Machine---Black the Star of the Contest.

Once more Davidson's prowess on the gridiron against Wake Forest, her old and worthy rival, has been demonstrated. The two
thousand spectators who on Thanksgiving Day assembled at Wearn Field, Charlotte, saw the Red and Black Machine, for the sixth
successive year, defeat the heavy Baptist eleven by a 21 to 7 score. Before the game, even conservative predictions pointed
to a close game, with the odds in favor of Wake Forest, because of her superior weight and experience; but
the first few minutes of play made it clearly evident that Coach Fetzer's well-drilled eleven was outclassing the Baptist aggregation
in almost every department of the game.

INDIVIDUAL PLAYING

To name the star players for Davidson would be to name the team, but standing out to itself was the
hard, aggressive work of Black at left-half, who time after time circled the Wake Forest wings for long gains. Capt.
C. Walker, at right-half, was a consistent ground-gainer and a tower of strength on the defensive. Laird, at full, often
went through the Wake Forest line for good gains. Keesler and Lawson, at quarter, ran the team in an admirable
manner. Keesler's tackling of Parker from behind after he had made a 70-yard run, with good interference, was easily a
feature of the game. In the line, King, Sayad, and B. N. White were in every play, both in stopping
the line bucks of Parker, and in opening up holes for Laird to enter for gains. For Wake Forest, Parker,
at full, and Pace, at right-half, did consistent work. Pace’s 20-yard drive through center at the beginning of the second
half for a touchdown on a delayed pass was a clever feature of the game for Wake Forest. After Davidson’s
secondary defense had been drawn to the left in anticipation of an end run, he slipped (Continued on page 3)

Keesler, Quarterback

EXAM. SCHEDULE

Thursday, Dec. 9—No recitations.
Friday, Dec. 10—Phys. 1, Chem. 1, Bible 2, French 2 (b), Latin 3 or 4, Greek 3 or 4, Econom.
2.
Saturday, Dec. 11—Hist. 1, Ger. 2 (a), Education, English 3 or 4.
Monday (2 p.m.), Dec. 13—Biol. 1, Hist. 2, Pol. Science.
Tuesday, Dec. 14—Latin 1, Latin 2, Phil. 1, Phys. 4.
Wednesday, Dec. 15—Greek A, Ger. 1 (a), Phys. 3, Phil. 2, Chemistry 2.
Thursday, Dec. 16—Phys. 2, Ast., Bible 3, Math. 4.
Friday, Dec. 17—Math. 1, Math. 2.
Saturday, Dec. 18—Greek 1, Math. 2, German 2 (b), Spanish.
Monday (2 p.m.), Dec. 20—Greek 2, Chem. 3, Public Sp., French 1 (b), App. Math. 2, Greek 5, Eng. 1.
Tuesday, Dec. 21—French 1 (a), Adv. Math. 1, Econom. 1, Chemistry 5, Law.
Wednesday, Dec. 22—Bible 1, English 2, Biol. 2, Geology, Chemistry 4, History 2.

(Preparatory studies will have their schedules arranged by the Professors). All conflicts should be adjusted with the Professors.
