[] The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick........ Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
J. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

REPORTERS’ STAFF:
Y. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
R. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

A FIRE DEPARTMENT.

The narrow escape from a serious fire at Dr. J. W. McConnell’s home last week brings up again the specter
of a town and college with absolutely no fire protection. Within the last four years, three large fires have occurred
in Davidson, and there have been several near-fires. The loss incurred in these fires was probably no less than $10,000.
It would seem folly now, premeditated folly, for the town and college to delay any longer the organization of a
fire department. Not only in the town is a house hopelessly gone if a fire is well started, but on
the campus, there is always a probability of a dormitory floor or railing catching fire, and our present apparatus of
indiscriminate water throwing and wildly excited students would accomplish little against it.

If the town and college will unite in the purchase of hose, ladders, ropes, buckets, and other fire-fighting equipment, we
are sure that the Davidson College men will be glad of the opportunity to organize and drill fire companies. A
thorough study ought to be made of every home in Davidson: the ways of entrance and exit, and the places
of water supply ought to be well known to the leaders of the companies. Such systems have been put in
operation at many other colleges and universities in small towns and have been found exceedingly effective. Then let us have
a fire bell and not trust to the ambiguous “fire” cry to call out help. If the town and college
will furnish the equipment, we will furnish the firemen to use it. Let us do something.

NEW BOOKS IN THE LIBRARY.

About a hundred new books have recently been received at the Library. About fifteen of them are especially interesting, as
they deal with the War in Europe. Among them are “Germany and the Next War” by Bernhardi; “Treitschke”; “Neutral Nations
and the War” by Bryce; “Why We Are At War,” a collection of British statements; “The Real Truth About Germany”
by Sladen; and “Modern Russia” by Alexinsky. Among the fiction are “Little Eve Edgarton” by Abbott; “The Patrol of the
Sun Dance Trail” by Connor; “The Honorable Percival” by Rice; and “Gideon’s Band” by Cable. A large number of miscellaneous
works are found among the new books. There is Durand’s much-discussed “Handbook of Kipling”; the large “Who’s Who in America”;
“California” and “Yosemite and the High Sierra,” two beautiful travel books; “Billy Sunday” by Ellis, and many others equally as
interesting.

The DAVIDSONIAN.

GREENVILLE CHAPTER "GREATER DAVIDSON" ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

By Fred W. Graham, Chairman Publicity Committee.

The object of every organization is to unite the individuals who are to be members, to bring them into closer
communion, to outline the work for each man, and to work to a common end. With this end in view,
twenty-two Davidson men responded to the call on January 6 at Greenville, S.C. For a number of years, the local
Davidson Alumni had considered the formation of an Alumni Association, and now that the organization is complete, it is the
hope and ambition of every man to be of material aid to his Alma Mater. With this end in view,
we elected the following officers: President, J. D. Woodside; First Vice-President, Dr. E. P. Davis; Second Vice-President, A. I. Willis;
Third Vice-President, Lake Cely; Corresponding Secretary, H. Russell; Treasurer, Villard; Publicity Man, Fred W. Graham.

Our President, Mr. J. D. Woodside, has appointed a committee to draft By-Laws, and it is our intention to cover
every field of endeavor to make the organization complete. With this end in view, we elected an athletic committee whose
duty it shall be to arrange football and baseball games to be played in Greenville between the Davidson team and
either Clemson, Tech, or whatever schedule is agreeable to the manager of the Davidson Athletic Association. In this way, we
hope to create local interest, and byThis means securing new men for Davidson each year. We also thought of having
a debate once or twice a year either between Davidson men, or perhaps Davidson men on one side and men
from another college on the other side. We have not limited ourselves as to the scope of our work, and
whatever we judge to be in the best interest of Davidson, it shall be our endeavor to follow out. We
intend to send a copy of our By-Laws, incorporating the aims that we have in mind, the committees that have
been elected, and the work of the different committees, to the chairman of the “Greater Davidson” Alumni Association. We hope
that our organization will be so perfected that the Alumni in other cities, who are contemplating an organization, will have
the situation mapped out and may see the ground to be covered, which will facilitate matters for them and enable
the organization to be completed with very little difficulty. Our experience has been that while a number of men who
wished to organize have put the matter off from time to time for the simple reason that we did not
know what to incorporate or what points to bring up at the first meeting. So for this reason, the matter
lay dormant for several years. It would be well to have a yearly meeting at Davidson, and each chapter make
it a point to send at least one man, and every member attend if possible. It is only through cooperation,
hard work, loyalty, and united efforts that we may hope to realize our fondest ambition, and when a man is
once a Davidson man, he is one forever. There is a certain loyalty or attachment for Davidson that every college
cannot boast of, but our experience and observation is that Davidson men work together, suffer together, stand united, and you
will find that spirit predominate wherever you run across a body of Davidson men.

Recording Secretary.

Fb. G.

MISS SHAW REMEMBERED.

On last Christmas, a four-section Globe Wernicke bookcase was presented to Miss Cornelia Shaw by the Student Body. Miss Shaw
is considered the students’ best friend by every man on the campus, and it is only as a slight evidence
of this feeling that this gift is made.

Several students are in the Infirmary on account of grippe.

WANTED—To hire you an auto.

January 27, 1915

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland. 26 R.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

A NEW ATTRACTION.

A middle-aged colored man, especially gifted in playing the “Old-time Southern melodies” and other popular songs, was a drawing card
at the Bachelor’s Club on Saturday night. A number of students, who delight to hear the rapidly passing “old Southern
negro with his banjo,” were on hand. His original home is in Charlotte, N. C., but within the past decade,
he has traveled around the world three times. From early in the evening till a late hour at night, he
held the close attention of a large group of students, bringing to the minds of many, by his characteristic performance,
a vivid realization of the nature of the real Southern melody.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

C. B. Mooney, Phone 40

One Hundred Cents on the Dollar

That is what every Equitable policy is worth at Maturity—whether a Death Claim or an Endowment. Hence Equitable policies are
popularly known as THE GOVERNMENT BONDS OF LIFE INSURANCE.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY

W. J. RODDY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.

J. P. QUARELS, Mgr., Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction

WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

SAVE MONEY

We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The swellest styles of the
season. See us before you buy.

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

If it’s anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE S. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy.
EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.

S. A. ELLIOTT

Next door to White Drug Co.
