i) The DAVIDSONIAN, October 6, 1915

Men sing! Don't wait for the other fellow—he is probably waiting for you. Set the example by singing yourself, and
let us make the chapel service one of real worship. W. A.D.

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Editorial Board Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

STUDENT ASSISTANTS.

The following students have been appointed assistants in the several departments:

Bible—W. G. Somerville, P. B. Price, and G. A. Hudson.
Biology—W. A. Dumas, B.S., and M. A. Crisp.
Chemistry—T. R. McNeill, J. M. McBryde, M. M. Knox, A.B., and A. I. Young.
English—N. P. Parrior and R. H. Ratchford.
French—T. R. McNeill.
German—T. R. McNeill.
History—J. P. Williams, W. P. Thomson.
Economics—E. G. Edgerton.
Latin—H. Morrison.
Mathematics—K. C. Clary, J. D. McLeod, and D. Shaw.
Physics—M. M. Knox, A.B., H. A. Scott, R. H. Jones, R. G. Finley, and S. W. Henderson.

REPORTERS

J. P. Williams, Editor-in-Chief
J. Mitchell, Managing Editor
P. B. Price, Assignment Editor
W. C. Cummings
J. A. James
J. R. Woods
W. A. Dumas

Official Photographer: W. G. Morrison, No. 2 Watts

Business Manager: J. H. Carson
Assistant Managers: W. H. Neal, J. C. Paisley

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone
and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches, and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.

CONCORD PRESBYTERY MET HERE THURSDAY

EDITORIAL.

A DAVIDSON DISGRACE.

Davidson's student body is advertised as “unique among institutions of learning.” The students are a picked body of men, representing
the finest home training in all the South. Probably two-thirds of them are the sons of church officers, representing every
state in the South. On the average, about nine out of ten are themselves professing Christians, and one in every
five has chosen the ministry of the Gospel as his life's work. It is not too much to say, then,
that the Davidson student body represents the flower of Southern culture and home training.

The Davidson student body is unique. Its moral stamina, and standards of purity, sobriety, and gentlemanly conduct are admittedly far
above the average, and place it high in the list of educational institutions of the South. But with all of
its virtues, there are also vices; and one of them, a sin of omission, is a blot upon the name
of a Christian community and a disgrace to a denominational school. It is the attitude toward the daily chapel.services and
especially toward the singing there. It is true that compulsory attendance at any meeting, be it religious, educational, or for
amusement, would probably prove burdensome to the liberty-loving American; but in our attitude of mere indifferent existence during the morning
period of divine service we become almost sacrilegious. It is pure carelessness, surely, for a student body like ours could
not and would not intentionally so defile a service of praise and thanksgiving to God. It is not that we
cannot sing, for it has been demonstrated in the Thursday night Y. M. C. A. meetings that we can. The
majority of the student body can sing, and will sing; but discouraging remarks by a few leading (downward) spirits tend
to throw a wet blanket over the entire service.

The adjourned meeting of Concord Presbytery, which was called to meet at Davidson, September 30, met in the Davidson church.
The only visiting ministers were Rev. Mr. West, of Centre church, and Rev. Dr. Clark, of the Salisbury church. The
purpose of this meeting was to give an opportunity to any men in college, who are looking forward to the
ministry as a life work, to put themselves under the care of Presbytery. There were three men who came forward
to be taken under the care of Concord Presbytery—Jones and Foster, of the Davidson church, and Reid Poole, of the
Mooresville church. Both of the former are Freshmen in the college. Another matter acted upon at this meeting of Presbytery
was the changing of the next regular meeting of Presbytery from Salisbury to Marion. Presbytery adjourned after a short but
important meeting to meet again at the call of the moderator.

LITERARY SOCIETY.

The Philanthropic Society on Monday morning elected S. T. Henderson, of the Junior class, to the Magazine staff to succeed
A. B. Reese, who recently resigned. The Eumenean Society has elected J. R. Morton, also of the Junior class, to
fill the place of E. H. Hamilton, who failed to return to college this year.

LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE.

Phi. Society, October 9—Affirmative: Peters, Price, Richardson, Reese, Webber, McKeithan, A. M. Negative: Worth, C. W., King, Mitchell, C. E.,
Stone, T. C., Morrison, Hunter.

October 11—Declamations and Orations: Worth, W. C., Robinson, A. W., Howell, Young, Howard, Witt Robinson, S. W. Kornegay, McArthur, Knox,
Crisp, Murray.

Eu. Society, October 9—Affirmative: Carroll, R. T., Clark, R. R., Hay, Johnston, W. A. Negative: Chambliss, Corbett, Mattison, Jones, R.
H.

October 11—Declamations and Orations: Cousar, Douglass, Cullum, Epps, Cunningham, Mitchell, T. M., Mitchell, T. J., Morrison, W. G., Mullen.

LOOK!

If you want a nice fall suit, let him order it and he will press it four months FREE OF
CHARGE.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
Back of Meat Market
Leslie Patterson, 30 R.

GENTS’ FURNISHING
Furniture, Druggets, Rugs, Etc.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

If you want your suit done up-to-date, let Alexander do it.
W. C. Copeland, 14 Ch.
W. C. Roerk, 67 Ch.
