2 The DAVIDSONIAN. March 10, 1915

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams........ Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick....... Business Manager
J. H. Carson and L. G. Edgerton, Assistant Managers

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ Staff:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
I. F. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

The next three issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN, until the new staff is elected, will be issued under the supervision of G. W. Gignilliat, who has kindly agreed to fill the editorial chair for this time.

F. W. P.

Well—it is over. I mean Junior Speaking. Yes, that terrible bugaboo of the junior’s life has been conquered, laid in his grave, and many a sermon preached over the remains. An immense sigh of mingled pain and relief has gone up to the high heavens from over three hundred manly breasts. A sigh of relief from that big-handed, shaky-kneed, quavery-voiced, self-conscious speaker, a sigh of sweet pain from the tortured breast of the poor boy who has just ventured upon the stormy sea of love. Some of us can almost declare in the words of the poet:

‘But the tender grace of a day that is dead
Will never come back to me.’

Ah, disconsolate lover, take courage. Do you sigh in vain ...

For the touch of a vanished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still!

There is a remedy for everything. But turn your listless, love-lorn steps beneath the stately, wise old elms, but listen to the soft Southern zephyrs as they make love to the tender buds above, but look at the full-orbed splendor of the moon. Then think that perhaps she, too, is walking alone thinking of you, that this same wind which whispers to you so softly now has perhaps played “ring around the roses” with a golden curl or gently caressed the tender corners of a peach-blossom cheek, that she, too, is perhaps looking at that same wise old man and telling him something that you would like very much to hear. Think of these possibilities, my friend, and take a little comfort unto yourself.

A DEBT OF GRATITUDE.

The world owes a debt of gratitude to Junior Speaking. Behold within three short days the problems of ages have been cleared up and questions that have bothered the philosophers of every generation have been definitely decided. The whole foundation of our government has been found wanting and means have been discussed and approved whereby this pitiable state of affairs might be remedied. The future prosperity of our country has been planned and provided for. The European war in all its magnitude has been thoroughly analyzed, a new map of Europe has been outlined and the final arrangements for world peace have been made. Oh! if Woodrow Wilson had only attended, what original ideas he would have received for the management of the government, and how delighted he would have been to have had this load of responsibility lifted from his shoulders! And if Kaiser Wilhelm had been present, how his bristly imperial would have drooped at the scathing denunciations heaped upon his head. No, gentlemen, we have failed utterly, heretofore, in realizing what a debt of gratitude this care-ridden old world of ours owes to the Junior who at one full swoop does away with all its perplexities. Junior Speaking forever!

TARDIES.

A few weeks ago Professor Fulton gave as his weekly assignment in writing to his Freshman English class the composition of an editorial. The edi-

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Hudson, 27 S. Chambers.

WANTED—To repair shoes. Martin, Davidson.

MR. POTTS.

It is with genuine regret that we see the postmastership pass from Mr. Claude Potts and his assistant, Mr. Stuart. Mr. Potts has served the community and the college faithfully and well in his work for Uncle Sam, and his helpfulness and obligingness have won him a host of friends. He has always been at the service of every college man, and he has rendered much appreciated assistance in getting THE DAVIDSONIAN quickly distributed into the boxes on Wednesdays. To our outgoing postmasters we extend our sincere appreciation and heartiest wishes for further success.

Ex-President Taft will deliver several lectures on “The Presidency,” atWritten by the freshmen in the CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. Carolina, during the week. Beginning exercises have been turned over to “THE DAVIDSONIAN” staff, and the best of them will be published from time to time. The editorial below is the second of this series.

There is one fault that we must find with the Davidson students; not a fault common to all the students, to be sure, but a fault common to a great many of them. This fault is the practice of tardiness. Six days out of the week we see the students coming to chapel late. It is true that they are hardly half a minute late, nevertheless they are late, and cause just as much disturbance as they would have had they been much later. Many of the students who are late for the morning prayers are those who like to sleep late in the mornings, and to speak more plainly, they like to sleep too well. They wait until the last moment to get up, and then at this very moment, in their great hurry, they forget that there is a limit to the strength of their shoe-string. Then, almost before they realize it, the string is broken, they have to stop to tie it together, or replace it with a new one. While they are doing this, they lose a little time, and the last bell rings before they are in their seat. Some other person may break a collar button, another may miscalculate the length of time he needs, and the result is that he is late—chapel has already begun before he is in his seat. And again, there are the tardies at class and church. Why it is that the students are tardy for these is more than we can usually understand, but nevertheless the professors have this to contend with, and it is the duty of every member of the student body to help them stop this practice.

Now why should a student be on time for chapel? The whole student body is always ready to go when chapel is over. The principal reason for this is that all know that breakfast is waiting for them. If any large number of students are late, then chapel is not begun as early as it should be, and is therefore not over until later than it would have been if all had been on time. Furthermore, there are other things that should cause the students to be more punctual at chapel, at church, and at recitations. The person who comes into a room or assembly hall where other people have already gathered always causes a disturbance. The attention of nearly every person present is distracted from what the speaker or instructor is saying. The one who has such a habit as this—that of being just a few minutes late—is not held in such high esteem by those disturbed as one who is always on time is. The habit of being tardy, viewed from any point of view, is a bad one. In the above I have had reference to unnecessary tardies especially; but on the other hand, it should be remembered that all tardies, whether unnecessary or unavoidable, cause the same evil consequences. It seems to me that the students of Davidson College should put forth every effort to be prompt in everything.

T.

On our exchange list now is an attractive little magazine called “Chats,” from Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, Port Gibson, Miss. Rupert McGregor ('14) is a professor at this academy and conducts a department of the magazine.

Kodak finishing. Howland, 26 R. See A. Rt March 14.

Several of the best speakers at the late oratorical exercises were seriously handicapped by recent or threatened attacks of la grippe.

Back the advertisers who are backing us.

The Equitable Life Assurance Society
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.

During its 55 years’ history has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for STRENGTH, SECURITY, SERVICE.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Thorough Instruction
Full Faculty
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY
LET US SHOE YOU

LADIES
Our Spring Line of La France Slippers consists of the latest cuts.

GENTLEMEN
Florsheim Shoes are part of a well-dressed man's makeup.

If it's anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE L. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy. EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.
L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.