The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Sophs Still Lead in Class Basket Ball
Freshmen Defeat Juniors.

Only two games of the class basket ball series were played during the past week. The first was played on Thursday between the Juniors and the Freshmen, the Freshmen winning by the score of 23 to 20. The game was not especially fast, but was hard fought, and several good plays were uncorked. Nimocks, for the Freshmen, and Young and Nisbet, for the Juniors, played especially good games. The line-up was as follows:

Freshmen (23) Position Juniors (20)
Hall............. Forward ........ Young
Nimocks....... Forward ........ Nisbet
Williamson..... Center .......... Price
McAskill........ Guard .......... Murray
Potts............ Guard .......... Keesler

Substitution: Porter for Price. Referee: Perry ('16).

The second game of the week was played Monday afternoon by the Junior and Senior teams, the Seniors winning by the score of 23 to 22. The game was close, although not very fast. During the first part of the game the Juniors led, the score at the end of the first half being 11-10; and in the second half the Juniors had an apparently safe margin, but toward the latter part the Seniors began pulling up, and in the last half minute of play Perry, of the Seniors, managed to make the deciding goal. The line-up was as follows:

Seniors (23) Position Juniors (22)
Hoyt............ Forward ........ Young
Perry........... Forward ........ Nisbet
Dumas.......... Center .......... Porter
Edgerton....... Guard .......... Keesler
Partton......... Guard .......... Murray

Referee: Reese ('17).

The respective standings of the teams are as follows:
Won. Lost. Pet.
Sophs 4 1 .800
Fresh 4 4 .500
Seniors 3 4 .430
Juniors 3 4 .430

After the speaking, there will be staged an exhibition basket ball game between the Sophs and Freshmen. This game will be played in the Gymnasium at 4:30.

BASKET BALL TEAM GOES TO STATESVILLE

A basket ball team composed of those men who are not out for football played Statesville last Friday night on their floor. It was a close and hard-fought game to the tune of 25 to 26, with the outcome undecided to the very last. The team from Davidson clearly outpassed the Statesville team, but were weak in shooting goals after working the ball to their basket. This was due to the lack of practice as they were only out a few nights. Statesville has a crack team this year composed of “Dummy” Newman, who played baseball for them this summer, and who played professional basket ball in Ohio last winter; Kimball, of last year’s Trinity team; Brady, of Union Seminary team; Gill, of A. & M. team; and Guy. This team plays on the Davidson floor December 7.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 24, 1915. No. 11.

Senior Speaking Begins Reception and Concert Annual Davidson-Wake On Friday Afternoon To Be Given at Queens Forest Game Tomorrow In Very Close Contests Seniors and Class of Speakers This Year Is Invitation Received By the Student The Teams Evenly Matched---Close Larger Than Usual.

Thursday there will be no recitations. Prayers as usual. Church at 10. Attendance not compulsory. Friday — All classes as usual. Only those Seniors who speak Thursday afternoon are excused from classes from 11 am (Friday). Saturday — No classes, but prayers as usual.

Friday, 2:30 p.m. — Speaking.
Friday, 4:30 p.m. — Gym Exhibit.
Friday, 8:00 p.m. — Speaking.
Friday, 9:30 p.m. — Y. M. C. A. Reception.
Saturday, 10:30 a.m. — Speaking.
Saturday, 2:30 p.m. — Speaking.
Saturday, 4:30 p.m. — Basket ball.
Saturday, 8:00 p.m. — Lyceum.
Saturday, 10:00 p.m. — Fraternity Receptions.

Senior Speaking this year is to see the largest number of speakers in recent years, forty-eight. The present Senior class has always been a strong one in literary and forensic lines, and their oratorical exercises give promise of being above the average. During its four-year sojourn at Davidson, this class has won the majority of all medals to which it was eligible, developing some of the strongest speakers in college.

The festivities of the occasion are likewise to be unusual. The time-honored Senior reception is to be omitted, since a farewell reception is held at Commencement, and its place is to be taken by a house-warming in the new Y. M. C. A. social center. The last of the furniture for the room, which is on the second floor of the Y. M. C. A. building, has at last arrived and has been installed. The recently organized Ladies’ Auxiliary, composed of the ladies of the town who are interested in the Y. M. C. A. activities, has very generously furnished curtains for the room, and is planning to give it as home-like an appearance as possible. Pennants and pictures are to be placed on the walls, and a Victrola is to be added. The reception will be a formal one, with the ladies of the Auxiliary and the members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet in the receiving line.

Friday afternoon will witness the usual Gym exhibit. The team is composed of those members of last year’s team who have returned to school, and is materially the same as last year. They have been practicing for some time, and a good exhibit is expected. Saturday afternoon there will be an exhibition game of basket ball between two of the class teams. The proceeds will go toward banqueting the two winning teams of the class series. That night there will be a Lyceum attraction in the chapel, the first of the season. The number is to be a musical one by the Hampton Court Singers, with a company of five, featuring a mixed quartet.

The ladies who are expected to be in attendance during the speaking are as follows:
(Continued on page 4)

Body and Unanimously Accepted.

The crowning event of Thanksgiving Day in Charlotte for Davidson students will beThe concert given by the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club at Queens College that night will be followed by a general reception tendered to the Davidson students by Queens College. The Orchestra and Glee Club have been looking forward to this concert for some time, and in anticipation of it, have been practicing daily for the past few weeks. At the concert given on the Hill Saturday night, both organizations showed good training and were appreciated by an audience of both students and town people. Practice has been resumed this week, and the leaders hope to be able to give an exceptionally good entertainment in Charlotte. The concert will begin at 8 o'clock Thursday evening in the auditorium of Queens College and will last about an hour and a half. The reception will follow immediately after. The student body received an invitation to this reception last week, and it was unanimously accepted. It is expected that the students, remembering the hospitality of the Queens College girls in the past, will be present in goodly numbers as many will be in Charlotte that day for the football game. The general admission to the concert will be 50 cents.

Y.M.C.A. MEETING.

At the meeting of the Y.M.C.A. last Thursday night, Mr. W.C. Smith of Richmond, Va., was the speaker. He gave an interesting talk, taking as his subject, “The One Talented Man.” He pointed out that while some may think they are not as fortunate as other men in the possession of talents, yet they, of all men, should think what they have to God. No matter how small or how few they are, He can do miracles with them. Quoting John R. Mott, “The greatest era in the lives of men will be during the next ten years,” Mr. Smith showed the need of men who have backbone to carry on this great work. All are rich in talents, and when the final reckoning time comes, each must give back his talents and give a full account of what he has done with them.

PLANS FOR FOOTBALL SCHEDULE UNDERWAY

Negotiations are underway to have an annual game with Clemson in Greenville, S.C., about November 14 of each year. The alumni of both Clemson and Davidson are numerous in and around Greenville, and a very attractive offer has been made to the association. In place of the old contract to play Clemson on the Hill every other year, the association is trying to get a reciprocating contract with V.M.I. They will play us on the Hill next year, and we will play them in Lexington the following year. It has been several years since Davidson has had a contract with V.M.I., and a game with them will prove to be a very interesting one.

Contest Is Expected.

Both the teams and the student bodies of Davidson and Wake Forest are ready for the annual game in Charlotte tomorrow afternoon. For over eight years, these two colleges have met in Charlotte, and for eight years, the Red and Black has come off victorious. The game this year will be of more interest than any year previous. Last year, Wake Forest came nearer to defeating the Red and Black than in any game previous in the history of athletics between the two institutions, losing by the score of 6-7. This year, Wake Forest has one of the best teams the college has ever put out, but about the same thing can be said of Davidson. If the comparative scores of the Carolina game are taken into consideration, the two teams seem to be about evenly matched. North Carolina won from Wake Forest 35-0 and from Davidson 41-6. But comparative scores cannot always be taken to represent the comparative strength. The game this year will be of special interest as Wake Forest will have two of Davidson's old stars lined up with her. Witherington, more commonly known as “Dutch,” will end his football career at Wake Forest with the game tomorrow. Dutch was for two years one of Davidson’s mainstays in both offensive and defensive work. In the game last year, he was the best ground gainer the Yellow Jackets had. This year, he is going better than ever. “Witherington's kicking and ability to handle the opposing team's punts,” writes a Wake Forest critic, “makes him a tower of strength for his team.” The other former Davidson warrior is “Nasty” Howell, the ex-captain and star tackle of the Red and Black for three years. Thursday’s game will also be the last for “Make” Billings, the Baptist’s quarter. Billings is playing exceptionally good ball this year, especially in broken field running. The list of eligible men was late in arriving, but the probable line-up for Wake Forest will be: Ends, Holding and Harris; tackles, Moore and Howell; guards, Olive and Blackman; center, Langston or Carter; quarter, Billings; fullback, Witherington; halfbacks, Parker and Pace. The Yellow Jackets held their last scrimmage Saturday. The few remaining days will be spent in signal practice and light work. The Davidson students will go down on the regular morning train, returning on a special that will leave after the reception that night. Round trip fare will be 75 cents, and athletic tickets will be good for the game.

ANNUAL PEACE CONTEST.

The annual Peace Contest, which is usually held one week after Senior Speaking, has, by the vote of the contestants, been postponed till the first week after Christmas. Anyone is eligible to enter. The winner will represent Davidson in the annual State Contest, which will be held in either Raleigh or Durham early in February.