The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. 3.

Foot Ball Season Opens on Saturday
High School Opens With Bright Outlook
Team Goes to Lexington on Friday | Large Enrollment and Splendid Faculty Assures a Successful Year.
For Washington and Lee Game.

The complete schedule for the season is as follows:
September 25—Washington & Lee, at Lexington, Va.
October 2—Clemson, at Clemson.
October 9—Georgia Tech, at Atlanta.
October 16—Wofford, at Davidson.
October 23—Roanoke College, at Winston.
October 30—South Carolina, at Columbia.
November 6—Furman, at Davidson.
November 13—North Carolina, at Winston.
November 25—Wake Forest, at Charlotte.

During the past week or so Coach Fetzer has been giving the football squad as good a workout as the
continued spell of hot weather will permit, and the effect of the work has been clearly evident in the scrimmages
that have been held within the past few days. There is some good material to be found among the new
men, and all of them are showing up well in the practices. It is as yet impossible to definitely pick
the men who will be found in the various positions in the opening game of the season, which will be
the contest with Washington & Lee, in Lexington.

Among the letter men who have returned are: Keesler, Laird, Steve Walker, Black, Bob Walker, and White. Laird and Walker
have been working out in the backfield, White at tackle, Miller at center, Keesler, Ives Lawson at quarter, Adams at
guard, Black at half, Bob Walker at end, Grey and Finley at tackle, and Savad at guard, while Hill, Fowle,
and Steve Walker also have been doing the punting. Among the new men Younger is showing up well at end,
McGill at guard, King at end, and Dean at half. A good strong scrub team has also been developed, and
this will of course be of great help in rounding the team into shape and giving it a good opposition
against which to work.

On Friday the regular varsity team and the substitutes will leave for Lexington for the game with Washington & Lee,
which will open the season. Reports from the camp of the Blue and White are to the effect that a
speedy, strong team is being put out again this year, and a hard-fought game is expected. Of the Varsity team
of last year, Captain Schultz, Bryant, Izard, Harrison, Graham, Pierotti, Sweetland, and “Cy” Young have returned. Among the new men
who have reported are to be found some promising high school and prep school players, and there are also a
number of men on last year’s scrub team that are showing up well. From this material Head Coach Elcock and
Assistants Donahue and Raftery are developing a strong line and a speedy backfield. Knowing that Washington & Lee has always
put out a strong aggregation, the Davidson squad is going up with a determination to give their opponents a hard-fought
game and will have a good store of the old Davidson “pep” with which to back up their play.

The Davidson High School opened September 2 with an enrollment of two hundred pupils, and quite a number have entered
since. The faculty has an addition of another teacher. Of the former faculty Misses Hood, Withers, Jetton, and Johnson, and
Professor Cumming are welcomed by patrons and citizens. The new members of the faculty are Miss Annie Jones, of Greenwood,
S. C., who comes here highly qualified and recommended; and Miss Maude Vinson, of Davidson, who last year conducted a
private school here for girls. The faculty and patrons are justly proud of the new additions. The Primary department meets
at the home of its teacher, Miss Withers. Professor Cumming has adopted a new plan for those who wish to
enter higher grades, that is, the system of entrance examinations. This is something new for this school, and will, it
is hoped, meet with great success. Another improvement is an effort to make the surroundings more attractive. The playground has
been plowed and is soon to be put in grass. This will add wonderfully to the appearance. Much interest is
being shown and the children are again glad to be in school after a long, pleasant, and eventful vacation. Professor
Cumming states that the enrollment and work show marked improvement, and that the prospect is bright for making this one
of the best and most successful years of the high school.

LOCAL NEWS ITEMS.

Dr. L. G. Corbett was on the Hill for a short visit last week.
Mrs. Chas. Carson and friends visited on the campus last Friday.
Miss Fanny McBryde is spending a few days with her sister, Mrs. Worth.
Mrs. Caldwell was very ill last week. Her friends hope for her a speedy recovery.
Miss Mary Richards and Miss Mildred Johnston will attend Converse College, at Spartanburg, this year.
Mrs. A. Currie and Miss Mary Young spent Saturday in Charlotte.
Miss Bertie Christenbury and Miss Charlotte Crawford will attend the State Normal, in Greensboro, this year.
Mrs. Wheary will leave Wednesday for Hampden-Sidney, Va.
Miss Mary Lafferty, who has been spending the past two weeks in Montreat, returned home a few days ago.
Miss Minnie Bratton and Mrs. Henry have gone for a visit to Stanley County.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 22, 1915. President Harper Addresses Y. M. C. A. Bible StudyClasses Arranged—A Delegation to
Go to Guilford.

The annual rally meeting to enlist members for the Bible study classes and to explain the system to new men
was held Thursday night in Shearer Hall. Dr. W. A. Harper, President of Elon College, had been selected to present
the cause, and his address proved highly interesting and very helpful. Among other things, Dr. Harper said that a man
must always be going, that to stand still is to retrogress; and that to grow, he must go right on
working. Following this talk, J. H. Williams, chairman of the Bible study committee, briefly explained the classes, fifteen in all,
which are as follows:

“P. Life”—J. R. A. Mallen, Paul Woods, W. A. Dumas, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle.
“New Studies in Acts”—R. H. Bennett, E. P. Nesbit, Dr. J. M. McConnell.
“Manhood of the Master”—N. P. Farrior, J. G. Patton, Jr., J. M. McBryde, W. G. Somerville.
“Student Standards of Action”—Wm. Hollister, T. Mitchell, P. R. McNeill, L. A. Chambliss.

After the close of the meeting, a room-to-room canvass was made for membership in these classes, and over 200 were
enrolled. It is hoped that the number may be yet increased, and also that attendance records may be broken. This
record of attendance, and the class percentages, will be posted each week on the Y. M. C. A. bulletin board
in the library, as usual.

Much interest has been centered in the State Conference of the Student Young Men's Christian Associations, to be held at
Guilford this week, September 23 to 26. Among the prominent speakers to be present are Dr. W. D. Weatherford, whom
Davidsonians remember with so much pleasure; Mr. R. W. Barnett, General Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. of Hangzhou,
China; Mr. C. G. Hounshell, Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement; Rev. Neal T. Anderson, of Winston-Salem; Dr. W. L.
Poteat, President of Wake Forest, and others. Davidson expects to send a delegation of at least twenty-five, the following men
having already signed up for the trip: W. C. Rourk, J. G. Patton, Jr., S. B. Hay, F. B. Fowlkes,
H. A. Ormand, W. G. Somerville, J. M. McBryde, J. H. Carson, A. B. Reese, R. H. Bennett, W. A.
Johnson, C. F. Rankin, G. B. Hoyt, Z. R. Mann, C. F. Monroe, J. L. Knight, T. T. Mitchell, B.
Wright, W. H. Neal, and W. A. Dumas. When the time arrives, it is expected that several other names in
addition to these will have been handed in.

Coach Fetzer wishes to ask that in view of the action of the student body at its recent meeting at
which he presided, regarding the proposition in regard to the damage fees, all of the students would regard this action
and refrain from any unnecessary and useless damage to the college property, in order that good results may come from
this action.

No. 2. Tennis Tournament Begins 1st of October

Association President and Manager Chosen and Plans Perfected.

At a recent meeting of the Davidson College Tennis Association, plans were made for the Fall tournament, and the following
officers were elected: A. B. Reese, president; T. A. Finley, manager. The committee appointed to get the names of those
entering and to arrange the schedule of the tournament was R. G. Finley, W. P. Keesler, and J. R. Woods.
All entries must be in by 6:30 p.m. Monday, September 27. The tournament starts the following Friday, October 1. The
doubles will be played off first. Everyone entering must deposit 25 cents to pay for the balls which, according to
custom, will go to the winner of the match. At the conclusion of the doubles, the singles will be played
off. The association is trying to secure three courts, the Championship, the court in the grove, and probably one of
the new ones, if it can be gotten in good condition by that time. This will allow nine matches to
be played off each evening. A large number of men have already handed in their names, and a good many
more are expected to enter. The tournament is open to anyone who plays tennis. All that is necessary is to
hand in your name to a member of the committee. T. A. Finley, the manager, states that as yet he
has been unable to secure any inter-collegiate games for the year, but will probably have about three or four, one
of which will be staged on the Hill.

CLASS BASKETBALL.

Great interest is already being manifested in the class basketball season which opens shortly. Last year great interest was taken
in these games, and as this year’s contest precedes the regular basketball season, the struggle will be greater and the
interest keener since much of the varsity material must be chosen from these class teams. Every afternoon a good number
of men representing the several classes hold regular practice on the outdoor court. The Senior and Junior classes will be
represented by practically the same teams as last year. The Sophs lose Billie Howell, who failed to return to college.
It is impossible to prophesy the strength of the Fresh team, but from the material reporting for practice it looks
as if they will make a good struggle for the championship. Of last year’s Varsity squad, Hengeveld, Wood, Childs, Reese,
and Carson have returned, and the prospects for a good basketball team look encouraging. The schedule of games and the
dates of play have not been arranged by the class managers, but they will soon be chosen and their respective
schedules will be announced. At recent class meetings, the following managers were elected: Seniors, G. B. Hoyt; Juniors, W. E.
Mattison; Sophs, Fred Hengeveld.

By unanimous vote, the Eumenean Society at its first meeting discontinued the usual “horseplay” in their initiatory ceremonies.
