> VARSITY BREAKS EVEN (Continued from page 1) Hengeveldt held the P. C. batters at his mercy, allowing them only
five scattered singles and walking but one man. He was given excellent support by the team, which played an errorless
game. Score by innings: Davidson ...... 146 010 000 Presbyterian College .. 000 000 000 Summary: Three-base hits, Austin, Browne,
Hengeveld; home run, Somerville; base on balls, off Hengeveld 1, off Anderson 6, off Jacobs 3; struck out, by Anderson
3, by Jacobs 7, by Hengeveld 8; hit by pitched ball, Christenbury, Gous (2); stolen bases, Christenbury, Somerville, Austin, Browne,
Black; left on bases, P. C. 5, Davidson 7; time, 2:55; umpire, Jacobs; scorer, Law.

First Carolina Game. On April 15, after having a weary journey down to Columbia from Clinton, the Red and Black
nine met defeat at the hands of South Carolina. It looked at the start as if the Presbyterians would get
the better of the Game Cocks. In the third inning, the Davidson batters pounced upon Babe Adams’ delivery and coupled
with errors they managed to score four runs. Three errors, two stolen bases, and Austin’s home run were responsible for
the quartet of tallies. Beginning with the next inning, Carolina settled down for the remainder of the game and played
airtight ball. Then Davidson went to pieces and for three innings, the fourth, fifth, and sixth, the Game Cocks scored
twelve runs. Babe Adams worked nicely for the University. Only three hits were gotten off him, one of which was
a scratch. He did not give a base on balls, his only wildness being when he poked Groome in the
ribs in the sixth inning. Hengeveld, who had pitched the day before, worked hard and steady, and had the team
played as usual the outcome would have been very different, for he kept his hits well scattered and had good
control. Score by innings: Davidson ...... 004 000 000 Carolina ...... 000 642 00X Summary: Two-base hit, Richards; three-base hits,
Alford, Martin, Adams; home runs, Austin, Plaxico; sacrifice hit, Richards; base on balls, off Hengeveld 2; struck out, by Hengeveld
4, by Adams 6; wild pitches, Adams, Hengeveld 2; hit by pitched ball, Groome, Barksdale; stolen bases, Somerville, Alford, Richards;
left on bases, Davidson 4, Carolina 6; time, 2 hours; umpire, Bartell; scorer, Law.

Second Carolina Game. Davidson reversed its form and coming back strong the next afternoon defeated the University of S.C. 10
to 4. Errors by the Carolina players plus timely hits tell the tale. Christenbury, the first man up for Davidson,
got to first on Horton’s error. A moment later he was caught between first and second and on a bad
throw was safe at the keystone station. Somerville sacrificed and a passed ball counted the runner. In the second inning,
singles by Stough, Lawson, Alford, and Austin, a sacrifice hit, four errors, and a wild pitch, netted the Red and
Black six runs. Lawson, the first batter in the fourth inning, opened the round with a single, his second hit
of the day. Christenbury’s sacrifice and Austin’s single scored him. Davidson made two more runs in the fifth inning. With
one out Walker walked. On Black’s single he went to third and when Christenbury doubled both runners counted. Carolina’s rally
in the ninth brought in four runs. Smith, the first hitter, was pasted in the ribs, Barksdale’s roller was booted
by Somerville and when Clark singled the bases were full. Horton’s triple cleared the sacks and left him on third.
He counted a moment later on Kerr’s single to right. Groome was then sent in to replace Lawson, and retired
the side, ending the game. Lawson pitched splendid ball for Davidson until the ninth, when Carolina’s rally came. He allowed
Carolina nine scattered hits and passed only one man. Box score:

DAVIDSON
Christenbury, 2b
Somerville, ss
Alford, c
Austin, lf
Stough, 1b
Browne, rf
Walker, cf
Black, 3b
Lawson, p
Groome, p

CAROLINA
Plaxico, cf
Langston, lf
Richards, 2b
Martin, p-rf
Smith, c
Waring, rf
Barksdale, c
Clark, 3b-ss
Horton, 1b
Simms, ss-3b
*Kerr

*Batted for Simms in ninth.

Score by innings: Davidson ...... 160 120 000 Carolina ...... 000 000 004 Summary: Three-base hit, Horton; sacrifice hits, Christenbury,
Somerville, Browne, Walker; base on balls, off Martin 2, off Smith 1, off Lawson 1; struck out, by Smith 7;
wild pitch, Martin; hit by pitched ball, Langston by Lawson.Smith by Lawson; stolen bases, Austin (2), Walker, Black, Plaxico; passed
ball, Smith; left on bases, Davidson 7, Carolina 7; hits off Martin 6 in 4 innings, off Lawson 9 in
eight innings, off Smith 4 in 6 innings, off Groome 1 in 1 inning; time, 2:10; umpire, Bartell; scorer, Law.

Charlotte Game.
On Saturday afternoon, April 17, Davidson met the Hornets on Wearn Field in Charlotte and were defeated by Manager Emery’s
aggregation by the score of 4 to 1. The team seemed a little tired, this being natural since they arose
at 4:30 to leave Columbia. Nevertheless, they fought hard throughout the entire game. Groome started the game for the Red
and Black and pitched good ball for five innings. During that time he allowed the Hornets but three hits, but
due to the fact that the wind was high and against his curves, he gave four free trips to the
initial sack. In the fifth, Charlotte scored two runs on an error, a base on balls, a sacrifice hit, and
a single. Lawson replaced Groome in the sixth and allowed the Hornets but four hits during the four innings that
he pitched. He also had one bad inning, this being the seventh, when the locals scored two more runs, these
being due to a double, a single, a base on balls, and a sacrifice fly. Davidson’s only run came in
the eighth, when Lawson singled and scored later on an error.

Score by innings:
Davidson . . 000 000 010— 1 3 2
Charlotte . . 000 020 20x— 4 7 2

Batteries: Groome, Lawson and Alford; Engle, Farlington and Hoberg.

GYM TEAM MAKES TRIP.
Tuesday, the gym team made the first trip of the year when it left for Lenoir, N.C. An exhibition was
given there last night under the auspices of the Lyceum. The men composing the team are: Winn, Thacker, Porter, Jones,
Young, McKeithan, Hawkins, Harper, Childs, and D. P. Smith. Three of the old men were unable to take the trip.
The mats and springboards of the Davidson gymnasium have been made over and are practically as good as new. Immediately
after the return Wednesday morning, the team will begin practice for the exhibition at Commencement, and there is every reason
to believe that it will be one of the best ever given here.

White Drug Company, Incorporated
Complete line of Stationery, Drinks, Cigars, Tobaccos
Agents for Norris Exquisite Candies
Prescriptions A Specialty
The Rexall Store

Was the average daily profit of 344 college and university men during last summer vacation. Let that fact sink in.
We are going to settle the question of college expenses by going into the same vacation work and can place
a few Davidson men with us who can qualify and will see us promptly for information.
J. M. Bain, 25 Main Building
A. S. Cummins, Henderson Hotel

The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.
EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

We are always glad to see you. See us for Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars, and Drinks. Prescriptions Carefully Compounded.
Davidson Drug Co.

Hot? Tired? Drop in and try our Fountain. The very best Drinks served in the Most Sanitary Way. Also a
full line of Tobacco.
Jetton Drug Co.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

EXPERIENCE TEACHES
That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite Summer sport. Equipment that's just a
little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.
Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field
Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it’s New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements
