AVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 17, 1915. NO. 19

Inter-Collegiate Debating Teams Selected

Following New Plan, Two Teams Selected From Contestants.

Last Friday night, February 12, the finals in the debating preliminaries were held in Shearer Hall. The object was to
decide who should represent Davidson in the two inter-collegiate debates to be held this spring. The question for discussion was,
“Resolved, That an alliance of all the American nations should take the place of the Monroe Doctrine.” The affirmative was
upheld by F. W. Price, Cooper, Rowan, and Neal; the negative by Alexander, Chambliss, F. H. Smith, and Patton. The
judges were Drs. Lingle, Currie, Sentelle, Douglas, and Harding. The whole debate was characterized by a lot of “pep” and
some fine talent in the art of argumentation was displayed. Those selected by the judges for the teams were: Price,
Smith, Alexander, and Rowan, with Patton and Neal as first alternates. The judges also decided that Price and Smith should
debate against Emory at Agnes Scott College, with Patton as alternate, and that Alexander and Rowan should debate Clemson at
Winthrop, with Neal as alternate. The debates are scheduled for April 4. The question to be debated with Clemson is,
“Resolved, That immigration should be further restricted by the imposition of the literacy test.” The question with Emory has not
been fully decided upon as yet. Davidson is making a departure from her usual custom this year by putting out
two debating teams instead of one. The outcome of this plan cannot be definitely decided yet, but by the debates
last Friday night it was seen that there would be two strong teams put out, and if other colleges do
this, there is no reason why Davidson cannot. The debaters will begin their work immediately and with two such teams
Davidson will be well represented at each debate.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TO TAKE TRIP

The Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club expect to take an extensive trip in the near future. They will start the
first of next week. Monday night they will give an entertainment at Winthrop College, Tuesday night at Toccoa, Wednesday night
at Brenau, Thursday night at Greenville Woman's College, and Friday night at Easley, S. C. The Orchestra is composed of
ten men; four violinists, a pianist, two cornets, a flute, a bass violin, and drums. These men have been practicing
for a long time and they will undoubtedly make a hit. Altogether there will be fifteen or sixteen men in
the party. The Glee Club is composed of several men of the Orchestra and a few others. There are among
them several splendid voices. All expect to hear great things of Davidson’s Orchestra and Glee Club.

Dr. Richards, the pastor of the Presbyterian church, has made it his custom to visit the students of the college
in their respective dormitories and rooms on Mondays. For the past several weeks he has followed this plan, and the
students want him to feel that a hearty welcome awaits him in each room. It is hoped that Dr. Richards
will find it possible to continue these visits throughout the year.

J. W. Miller, First Class Student Barber.

TOWN ITEMS.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. J. M. McConnell Friday afternoon. Mrs. C. M. Richards led the meeting. The
subject was Magazine Illustrators.

Miss Bertie Christenbury entertained a few of her friends Saturday night at a Valentine party.

Mr. M. W. Cranford has been appointed postmaster and will take charge on March 2.

Prof. A. Currie was in Mooresville Sunday in the interests of the Laymen’s Movement.

Mrs. M. E. Manning, who underwent an operation Saturday at the Charlotte Sanatorium, is improving.

Mrs. Hugerly, of Danville, Ky., mother of Mrs. M. J. Fulton, has been sick, but is now improving.

Miss Mary Young spent Saturday with friends in Charlotte.

Little Vivian Floe, the child of Mrs. Lloyd Floe, died last week. The funeral took place in Derita.

The Ladies’ Civic League had a very important meeting Tuesday afternoon last week.

Dr. Shearer has returned from Charlotte, where he has been receiving treatment for his eyes.

The Ladies’ Missionary Society held a special meeting Monday of last week. The constitution was changed and the name of
the society changed to the Women’s Missionary Society.

Mr. P. W. Culbertson, an alumnus of Davidson, was installed as pastor at Gilwood by Dr. Richards, Sunday.

The Young Ladies’ Missionary Society met with Miss Hattie Thompson. The meeting was led by Miss Irene Hudson. The subject
was China.

The annual meeting of the Davidson Bible Society was held Sunday night. Mr. A. L. Hobbs was re-elected president, Mr.
Thompson vice-president, and Miss Sadie Schofield secretary and treasurer. Professor Fulton made the annual address, the subject being The Bible
and Browning.

Bob Shelton was on jury duty in Charlotte last week.

A box will be placed in the post office for Town Items. It is hoped that advantage will be taken
of this and a good supply of news handed in by the people of the town.

SOPHOMORE BANQUET PLANS

At a meeting of the Sophomore class last week it was decided to postpone the annual Soph banquet from March
1 to April 5. Because of the fact that the former date would follow very closely the meeting of the
Laymen’s Convention which a large number of the class desire to attend, it was decided that the latter date would
be more acceptable to the whole class. At the same meeting representatives from the other classes to this banquet were
elected as follows: Senior class, Norman Johnson; Junior class, U. P. Williams; Freshman class, T. W. Black. Early last fall
Dr. J. M. McConnell and T. M. Douglas and Prof. A. Currie were chosen as faculty representatives.

HOLIDAY WEDNESDAY.

In order that all of the Davidson students may attend the Charlotte Convention, Wednesday has been given by the faculty
as a holiday. Immediately after the arrival of the train in Charlotte on Wednesday morning all of the Davidson students
are asked to assemble at the SecondPresbyterian Church and to march in a body to the Auditorium. There, a special
place will be arranged for them in the Convention Hall. In order to gain admittance to the hall, each man
must show his registration card. These cards may be obtained at the Davidson Booth at Convention headquarters at the Second
Presbyterian Church. After the conclusion of the day's program, a special train will be run about 11 p.m. on which
the students may return to the college. If any of the students wish to remain for any other of the
sessions, they will be allowed to do so upon proper application for permission. At the Davidson booth, each Davidson man
will be supplied with a red and black ribbon with D.C. printed on it so that he may be identified
at the Convention hall.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI DINNER.

The Davidson Alumni Dinner to be held at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, the 11th, at the old Presbyterian College building,
will be open to all former or present officers, teachers, trustees, the alumni, and the present undergraduate student body of
Davidson. The amount per plate will be one dollar, payment of which may be made when the ticket is secured
at the Davidson Booth at Convention headquarters. This dinner will be held in the dining room of the old Presbyterian
(Queens) College instead of in the old Colonial Club rooms as previously announced. The seating capacity of this hall is
much greater than that of the other rooms, and so arrangements have been made to hold it there. Dr. Walter
L. Lingle will act as toastmaster on this occasion, and several prominent Davidson alumni and friends have been asked to
speak. An enjoyable and pleasant evening is promised, and all Davidson men are urgently requested to be present.

PEACE CONTEST IN RALEIGH ON FRIDAY

On Friday, the 12th, Norman Johnson, the Davidson representative in the Peace Contest, will leave to take part in this
contest before the North Carolina Legislature in Raleigh. Interest in this contest is keen among the various colleges of this
section, and the contest will be spirited and well-fought before a decision is reached. Davidson, of course, hopes her representative
will be victorious, and her hopes and best wishes go with him.

CHARLOTTE HIGH SCHOOL TO PRESENT PLAY

It was rumored on the Hill last week that the Charlotte High School would bring their amateur play to Davidson
and present it Friday night, but on account of the final debate being scheduled for the same night, it was
postponed until a later date. Arrangements have been made for them on March 12. The play is entitled “The Hoodoo,”
and is said to be presented in a splendid way by the pupils of the Charlotte school. It has been
presented before an audience in Charlotte and received much praise by those who saw it.

Baseball Prospects for the Season Promising

Practice Started In Earnest With Large Number Trying Out.

With ten days of good weather, the spring baseball practice has started in real earnest, and every afternoon can be
found a large number trying out for the team. Sprunt Field is a place of central interest to all those
athletically inclined, and although it is yet too early to draw any definite conclusions, the prospects for one of the
best teams for many years is very promising. Many old men are back, among them being Alford, Somerville, Christenbury, Brown,
Stough, and Walker. All of these men have proven their worth by their previous stellar playing for Davidson, and it
is to be expected that they will be better than ever during this spring. It was doubtful last fall that
all of these men would be able to remain during the year, and it has raised the percentage of the
prospects to a large extent since they decided to return.

One of the most decided advantages that the team will have this year, over the last few years at least,
will be the coaching of “Bill” Fetzer. He came at a most difficult time to take the place of his
brother, “Bob” Fetzer, and he has already proven to be one of the most popular coaches that Davidson has had
for many years. It will be hard for a man to be better liked than was last fall’s coach, Bob
Fetzer, who so successfully coached the football team, but his brother bids fair to stand alongside him in the estimation
of every student. One of the exceptionally strong features of the coaching of “Bill” Fetzer is his success in developing
winning pitchers. The report has it that in a few weeks he has the power to absolutely “make” a pitcher
out of an untried man, and while this will not be necessary this year, still he will have an opportunity
to show his powers in this direction. On account of a series of unexpected circumstances, none of the best of
last year’s pitchers have returned this spring, and it is going to be practically a new staff who will be
counted on to help win Davidson's games this year. However, there is much good material to work on, and some
half dozen men are being tried out for these places. The reports are that they are showing up much better
than was ever expected by even the most optimistic.

Manager Shaw has arranged a schedule which will compare favorably with the best that Davidson has ever had, with more
dates both on and away from the Hill, than the team has had for many years. One or two dates
have not finally been fixed, but the completed schedule is promised in a short time. It is said to include
something like six or seven games on the Hill, one or two in Charlotte, and about eight more off the
Hill. With the continuance of good weather, the team should be able to get in some good practice at once
and be in prime condition for the hard schedule which will soon start. Already several practice games have been played,
and the field is getting into fine shape.

NO Y. M. C. A. MEETING TO BE HELD THIS WEEK

On account of the large representation of Davidson men attending the Laymen's Missionary Convention in Charlotte, no regular Y. M.
C. A. meeting will be held Thursday night.

S. Chambers
