i) The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. 

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS 
Hrs: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
J. P. Williams... Editor-in-Chief
T. J. Mitchell... Managing Editor
P. B. Price... Assignment Editor
Tin Stare
T. D. Sparrow
Latta Law
R. H. Ratchford Business Manager
J. H. Carson

REPORTERS
William Hollister
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal
I. H. Hamilton
D. V. Hudson

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C. Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

OUR REPRESENTATIVES.

Word has just come to us that our Debating Team has triumphed over the strong team from Emory College. It was expected, of course—we always expect our teams to win when there is even a fair chance for success—but it seems especially good to the men on the campus here, who have known of the odds against which these men, Price and Smith, have been working. We have known of the intangible question, which was thought to be almost undebatable (and for which a substitute question was refused by Emory), of the impossibility of getting material for the debate, of the sickness, at one time, of both of the debaters, of the vast amount of outside work which has been carried by both men, especially Price. When we consider all these things, and possibly we could continue to name them, had we been defeated, we then begin to realize the heroic efforts which have been necessary to bring victory to Davidson. To say that we are thoroughly proud of these men, is to express our sentiments in terms of extreme mildness. But when we realize also, that this victory is only one of many during the last two weeks, it is brought clearly and forcefully to us, the work which our representatives are doing for the College. No student will soon forget the day in Rock Hill last week, when practically the entire student body accompanied the teams, and where we won the debate from Clemson and the game from Wofford. The debaters, Rowan and Alexander, handled the extremely difficult questions relative to the Literacy Test in a manner which left no doubt in the minds of any in the audience that the decision should be in favor of Davidson. Countless hours were spent in the preparation for possible points to be uncovered by the opponents, and with the clear and logical reasoning of one and the fire and energy of the other, tempered by facts and forensic skill, there was never a time when we did not feel that Davidson's reputation would be sustained. And this, too, against a college three times our size. In athletic fields we have done equally as well. During the last two weeks Davidson has won from Elon by an overwhelming score, from Wofford, on foreign grounds, from the Charlotte league team in a hard-fought contest, from Richmond College by a good score, and now today comes a report of another victory from Wofford in their own territory. It has been, with hardly a pause, one victory piled high upon another.

And now in checking up and getting a balance, we find where our representatives, in athletic and literary fields, have worked hard, and trained well, and sacrificed personal pleasure and comfort, for the glory of the College. And although defeat would have meant nothing, knowing they had done their best, yet it is good to be able to give the favorable results, which bring out in bold relief, the way in which all those who represent us, have nobly acquitted themselves and brought victory and honor to Davidson.

HIGH SCHOOL CONTESTANTS.

We were glad to have as the guests of the College last week the contestants from the different High Schools of this part of the State. Every man on the campus, we believe, was thoroughly interested in the occasion and did his part to make the visitors feel more at home. The rivalry shown between the different schools was intense, yet friendly, and the events of the Athletic Meet and of the more formal literary exercises, all showed the greatest amount of care in training and preparation.

A packed house, on Saturday night, to witness the closing events and the awarding of the medals, was indisputable evidence of the interest of all, and we hope that we may again, in the near future, welcome as our guests representatives from these same schools.

DR. BRIDGES FILLS LOCAL PULPIT SUNDAY

Dr. J. R. Bridges filled the pulpit here last Sunday, both morning and evening. During the morning service he pointed out beautifully the struggle between the spiritual andearthly elements in man, and at night, man's responsibility for the welfare of his soul. Dr. Bridges, the editor of the Presbyterian Standard, is a most able and instructive speaker.

INSPIRING Y.M.C.A. MEETING THURSDAY

Thursday night the regular meeting of the Y.M.C.A. was turned over to the members of the outgoing Cabinet, who spoke briefly of the work that they had tried to do during the past year, with hints to the new Cabinet for conducting the Association even better next year than they had done this year. J.C. Harper, W.A. Mcllwaine, Norman Johnson, and C.M.L. Gibbs, told of the work done in their several departments and the methods used most successfully by them. F.W. Price, the outgoing president, who probably has done more for the Y.M.C.A. while in college than any other man, gave a short talk of encouragement to the new president and cabinet. Then the meeting was turned over to the incoming president.

NEW Y.M.C.A. CABINET

At the meeting last Thursday night the old Cabinet resigned to the new one, which will take charge for the remainder of the session. The new Cabinet is as follows: W.A. Dumas, Mission Study; J.G. Patton, Jr., Personal Work; T.J. Mitchell, Personal Work; J.P. Williams, Bible Study; W. Hollister, Membership; N.P. Farrior, Devotional; F.E. Smith, Fresh Reception.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATE

On last Monday night the Fresh-Soph Debate was held in the two society halls. The question was: “Resolved, That the Army and Navy of the United States should be increased.” In the Philomathian society the debaters were: Affirmative, S.L. Hunter and J.V. Williams; negative, W.T. Douglas, C. Bellingrath, H.R. Fraser, and J.R. Woods. The judges were Drs. Arbuckle, J.M. McConnell, and Mr. Jackson. J.R. Woods, a Freshman, won the medal. In the Philanthropic society, the affirmative was upheld by G.L. Cooper, R.H. Ratchford, and W.H. Neal, while W.B. Knox, J.A. Thames, and W.C. Cumming debated for the negative. The judges were Drs. J. Douglas, J.M. Douglas, and Sentelle. The judges decided that W.C. Cumming, another Freshman, won the medal.

WANT ADS

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C.B. Mooney, Phone 40.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To do your Kodak finishing. Howland, 26 R.

TRACK MEETS PLANNED

The long looked-for track meet is at last a certainty. On Monday, April 19, the annual Field Day will be held here, and at that time the team will be picked to represent Davidson in the meets. The expected meet with Wofford was canceled, but Norman Johnson and Dr. McConnell succeeded in obtaining a double meet with the University of South Carolina, provided 200 men of Davidson would pledge themselves to attend the meet on the Hill to defray the expenses. The meet at Carolina will probably be held the first of May, and the meet here on May 8. Each team will consist of ten men. As there are but three or four old men on the Davidson team, there is a good opportunity for new men to make the team.

Dr. M.G. Fulton was in New York last week attending the annual meeting of the Simplified Spelling Society. At this meeting he reported his work on behalf of the society throughout the South during the past year.

Miss Cornelia Shaw was called away Saturday to be with sick relatives.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history, it has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for SERVICE, STRENGTH, SECURITY.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W.J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C.
J.P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly

Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY, Remember

We always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits, and Candy
Always Fresh, Always the best
Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED
L.A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.