The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. 3.

* * *

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

Tennis Tournament Began Last Saturday

Social and Personal Items About the Townspeople.

Doubles Matches to be Played First

On Tuesday, at 11 o'clock, the newly organized committee on the Scholarships met at Raleigh, N. C., in the office
of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction to discuss plans for the future. This is the first meeting of the
committee, of which Dr. T. W. Lingle is a member. Dr. Sikes, of Wake Forest; Dr. Brooks, Professor of Education
at Trinity College; Professor Meredith, of Guilford, and Professor Atkinson, of Elon College.

* * *

Mr. Chase Brenizer, City Attorney of Charlotte, and Salutatorian of the class of '90 at Davidson, married Miss Norville, of
Blowing Rock, on October 5. The ceremony took place in the Presbyterian church.

* * *

It is with sincere regret that The Davidsonian learns of the death of Dr. Thornton R. Sampson, who was a
professor in the University of Texas, and a brother of Mrs. Dupee, of Davidson.

* * *

Mrs. Moore McConnell informally entertained a few friends last Friday at a morning party given in honor of Mrs. Robinson,
of Wilmington, and Mrs. Vardell, of Red Springs.

The local High School football team defeated Statesville 7-6 on Saturday. Duncan Shaw ('16) managed the local High School team.

Mrs. J. S. Jones and Mrs. Inman motored up on Sunday from York to see their sons, W. M. Jones
('19) and A. Inman ('19).

The Ladies’ Missionary Society will meet Thursday at 4 p.m. in the Civic League Hall.

Miss Anne Payne, sister of J. L. Payne ('16), is visiting here for a few days at Mrs. Smith’s.

* * *

Capt. J. D. McConnell is visiting his sons, Drs. J. M. and J. W. McConnell, for a few days.

* * *

Dr. and Mrs. Reid Morrison, of Mt. Mourne, have joined the local golf club.

Miss McDowell, of Morganton, is visiting the Misses Young.

* * *

The Book Club will meet next Friday with Mrs. Currie.

* * *

Mrs. Worth entertained a few friends Thursday night in honor of Miss Payne.

* * *

Dr. E. H. Harding is slowly recovering from a severe illness.

FRATERNITY CUP AWARDED.

The Belk Fraternity Cup, which is awarded annually to the fraternity whose class average for the entire membership of the
chapter is the highest for the year, has been awarded this year to the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

* * *

At a meeting of the committee appointed to arrange for the Annual Tennis Tournament, held last week, it was decided
to play off the doubles matches first and then the singles. It was also decided to play off the matches
in order instead of drawing out the winners in the second round. The names of those entering the tournament were
drawn as follows:

Doubles: Kennedy and Barnett vs. Shaw and Lott; Keesler and Brown vs. Richardson and Roddy; Fraser and Cunningham vs. J.
R. Woods and C. Worth; McKee and Thomas vs. Finley and Finley; Hampton and Perry vs. Jones and Robson; Saunders
and Alford vs. Price and Mitchell; G. Hudson and E. Woods vs. Reese and Hawkins; Miller and Watt vs. Pickens
and Moore; Hall and Kornegay not having opponents will play the winners of the last match on the list.

Singles: Richardson vs. Douglas; Hollister vs. Cunningham; Reese vs. Saunders; Mitchell vs. Coachman; T. Finley vs. Pickens; Shaw vs. Perry;
Hawkins vs. Watt; Fraser vs. Moore; McKee vs. White; Kennedy vs. Keesler; Thomas vs. Hampton; Kornegay vs. Lott; E. Woods
vs. Price; R. Finley vs. Hall; Barnett vs. G. Hudson; Brown vs. Miller.

Four matches were played Saturday afternoon. Kennedy and Barnett defeated Shaw and Lott 6-4, 7-5; Keesler and Brown won from
Hall and Kornegay 6-3, 6-0; Fraser and Cunningham won from J. R. Woods and C. Worth 6-1, 6-0; Finley and
Finley downed McKee and Thomas in two straight sets 6-1, 6-1. In the games played Monday morning, Jones and Robson
defeated Hampton and Perry 6-4, 7-5; G. Hudson and E. Woods defeated Reese and Hawkins 6-8, 6-9, 6-2; White and
Mayfield won from Richardson and Roddy 6-1, 6-2. Monday afternoon, Saunders and Alford defeated Price and Mitchell 10-8, 8-6, 6-3,
completing the first round of matches. In the second round, also played Monday afternoon, Finley and Finley defeated Fraser and
Cunningham 6-3, 6-1; Hudson and Woods won from Miller and Watt 6-1, 6-2.

* * *

GYM TEAM TO MAKE TRIP.

The Gymnasium team is planning to leave Thursday for Kings Mountain. An exhibition will be given there at the celebration
held on the anniversary of the Battle of Kings Mountain. The team will probably return Thursday night. The team is
rather small as several of the best men left last year. There is, however, a lot of fresh material and
with hard work Davidson ought to be able to uphold her reputation in having one of the best teams in
the country. Plans have been made to order new apparatus. Other trips and probably a meet will be realized during
the year.

A. C. Woods, L. K. Boggs, and F. M. Mitchell have just come out of the Infirmary, after short spells
of illness.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 6, 1915.

Dr. Chapman to Lead Fall Campaign Here

Mr. Alexander to Come Also, as Well as Other Good Speakers.

The whole student body will be glad to learn that Dr. J. Wilbur Chapman will conduct the evangelistic meetings for
the Young Men's Christian Association which will be held the 11th, 13th, and 19th of this month. The Y.M.C.A. cabinet
has worked hard to get Dr. Chapman here, and all who are interested inThe work of the Association feels that
the meetings will mean much to each and every man in the student body. Dr. Chapman and his work are
so well known that he does not need any introduction to the student body. Those of us who had the
pleasure of hearing him in Charlotte last spring know of his strong personality and power to move men. He is
a man among men in the highest sense of the term, and it will be a great privilege not only
to hear him speak but to meet and talk with him. Mr. Alexander will assist Mr. Chapman in the meetings
and he will be a large factor in making them a success. It is hoped that Mr. Brown, the soloist,
and Mr. Barraclough, the pianist, will also be with us. Dr. Rolston, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte,
who was associated with Dr. Chapman in the work of the meetings which were held in Charlotte last spring, will
assist in the personal interviews. Tim Pharr, who graduated from Davidson in 1909, and is now a student at Union
Seminary, and W.C. Boushall, Secretary of the Association at Chapel Hill, will help in the personal work. It is hoped
that there will be a great many more interviews with the leaders than there have been heretofore in the evangelistic
meetings. Dr. John R. Mott, just before the meetings began at Chapel Hill last winter, said he considered the interviews
with the leaders as the most important part of the meetings. We have a rare privilege in having so many
men strong in Christian character, and rich in experience, to whom we may go for help and guidance in any
difficulty, whether mental, moral, or spiritual. It is necessary that all do their part in order that the meetings may
be a success. Each man should be very earnest in prayer that God may give him a new vision of
life and help him to follow more closely in the footsteps of the Master. And day by day as we
go about on the campus we should speak to the fellow who needs our help. Men, let us all work
together to make Davidson such a place that the Man Christ Jesus, if He were with us in the flesh,
would be proud to say, “I am a Davidson man.”

SPLENDID ENTERTAINMENT BY OXFORD SINGING CLASS

Before an appreciative audience, the singing class of Oxford Orphanage on last Friday evening rendered a very interesting program, consisting
of vocal solos, duets, recitations, and choruses. The class, composed of ten girls and four boys, had been thoroughly trained.
The vocal solos by the small girls, some of them not over seven or eight years of age, and the
choruses by the class are worthy of special mention.

No. 4. Tigers Are Again Tied By Fetzer’s Machine

Red and Black Repeats Feat of Last Year in Saturday’s Game.

By recovering a fumble and scoring through an open field, Adams saved Clemson from defeat at the hands of Davidson
on Riggs Field, Saturday, October 2. With the exception of this scare, Clemson never threatened the Davidson goal, and the
only chance the Tigers had for tallying was an attempted drop kick from the 30-yard line, which was blocked and
recovered by the Red and Black.

The intensely hot weather told heavily on both teams and was especially trying on the Davidsonians, as they were considerably
outweighed by the Aggies and the latter could make more frequent substitutions. In the first quarter, Davidson received. Keesler caught
the kickoff and ran for 20 yards, fumbling as he was tackled. Clemson recovered but was unable to gain. The
ball see-sawed in the middle of the field the rest of the quarter. In the second quarter, by a good
return of Clemson's punt, line bucks, and end runs, Davidson twice made downs. On the Tigers’ 45-yard line, the Red
and Black again fumbled, Adams recovering for Clemson and with no one between him and the goal posts ran the
fifty yards for the first touchdown. Clemson failed to kick goal.

In the third quarter, Keesler received the kickoff and with magnificent interference ran through the entire Clemson team and was
tackled on the 2-yard line. Laird easily crossed the line on the next play. Davidson failed to kick goal. During
this quarter, Davidson twice successfully worked the forward pass, threatening the Tigers’ goal. But the third pass was intercepted and
the Aggies punted out of danger. Davidson was forced to punt. With a good return, the Tigers brought the ball
to the Tar Heel 10-yard line. Their drop kick was blocked, White recovering for Davidson.

In the fourth quarter, Davidson threatened the Tiger goal when Lawson twice drove center for 15 yards. The forward pass
was again intercepted and the Tigers’ goal saved. For Clemson, the work of McMillan, Harris, and Magill was good. For
Davidson, White played excellent ball. The big center was in the game at all times, breaking up the interference and
capturing the Clemson backfield before it had left its position. Black's defensive work was of the stellar kind, and he
was also a consistent ground gainer. Lawson and Keesler both ran the team well at quarter.

The line-up:
Davidson. Position. Clemson.
Younger. right end. Harmon
McGill. right tackle. Littlejohn
right guard. Cannon
White. center. Randall
Gray. left guard. Suggs
McKeithan. left tackle. Magill
Walker, R. left end. Poole
Keesler. quarterback. McMillan
Walker, C. right half. McConnell
Black. left half. Harris
Laird. fullback. Adams

Officials: Referee, Brown, of Vanderbilt; Umpire, Beavers, of Georgia; Headlinesman, Bowen, of Army. Time of quarters, 10 minutes.
