The Davidsonian, September 29, 1915

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 9 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
Q. J. Mitchell....... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford

BUSINESS MANAGER
J. H. Carson

ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGERS
E. P. Nisbet
W. H. Neal

REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

CENTRIFUGAL THOUGHT

It is undoubtedly true that what a man thinks most about is to him the greatest thing in life. If
a man puts most of his thought upon his “tickets,” books and book knowledge will seem to him the biggest
and best thing in life. Should he spend most of his time thinking about “the ladies,” they would to him
be the main part of existence. If a man thinks more about “skits” and the dopes and yarns there, that
will to him be the main purpose of life. To soldiers, the war is almost the only thing in life,
because it is almost the only subject of their thought.

Thought, contrary to most things nature has made, has centrifugal force. It tends to concentrate upon the thinker and things
pertaining to him. The thinker's views thus tend to become narrow and his horizon small. Many men yield to this
force. They think only of themselves, their friendships, their grudges, their studies, and football, and so their horizon of thought
lies easily within the limits of the “Hill.” Others overcome this force and their thoughts attain a centrifugal force, leaving
themselves and their surroundings to dwell upon the great, high, and noble things that exist.

The present is the most remarkable age the world has ever seen. More difficult problems are arising, and more avenues
of thought are opening than ever before. America, in many ways the foremost nation of the world, is faced with
conditions and problems that tend to mar her. The negro question, the mill question, the moral question, the temperance question,
unclean politics, and many other problems, each require much thought. Mexico in her turmoil, poverty, and wretchedness, should excite thought.
The warring countries of Europe, their purposes, their feelings, their suffering, and the results of the war, are great subjects
of thought. Japan is faced with moral questions simply appalling. India lies in as dense a darkness of ignorance, poverty,
and degradation as Africa. China, changed in ten years from a changeless empire to a republic full of thoughtful men
and women, is faced with economic, social, and religious problems that awe the thoughtful men by their magnitude. These last
three nations contain over half the population of the world. In the near future, they will make their influence felt
in the world. The Japanese, Indian, and Chinese say to America, “You have the solution of our problems. Why do
you not give them to us?” Because of her unique advantages at present, America will be held largely responsible for
giving help to nations that need help. And yet not America will be held responsible, but Americans. Each American was
created to do his part toward its fulfillment. It is not an age of individualism, or even of nationalism, but
of “worldism,” and of worldwide thought.

The great themes of God, man, man’s duty to God, man’s duty to man, life, death, eternity, faith, and service,
which have faced men from the beginning, have yet to be thought through by each man. A man whose thoughts
leave himself and the petty little things of life, and dwell uponthe big, true things of life, is it noble,
but how rare. Have centtipaeal thought. - an | a

DR. VINES ADDRESSES Y.M.C.A. MEETING

The Y.M.C.A. service last Thursday evening was led by Wm. Hollister, the president, W.G. Somerville, and vice-president, J.G. Patton, being
off the “Hill” attending the Y.M.C.A. conference at Guilford College. Dr. Vines, pastor of the First Baptist church of Charlotte,
made a very forceful address. The passage from which his theme was developed was: “So fight I, not as one
that beateth the air.” In speaking of life and its problems he said: “The Christian life is a purposeful life,
and is only aggressive and full of initiative when it is in a warfare.” He then spoke of the campaign
which was soon to be held here, and his words were an inspiration to his audience to work together in
unison for the greater success of the Chapman-Alexander meeting. In speaking of the meaning of a revival he showed that
it had a threefold purpose in that Christians are quickened; backsliders are reclaimed; and sinners are saved. The methods of
a revival which were given are: that it be earnestly desired; that it be prayed for; and that it be
discussed.

CONCERT TO BE GIVEN HERE FRIDAY NIGHT

The singing class of Oxford Orphanage will give a concert in Shearer Hall on Friday evening, October 1, at 8
o'clock. There are ten girls and four boys in the class, all of whom are thorough. An hour and a
half will be required to render the program. Although the Oxford Orphanage was founded by the Masons, yet children are
received without regard to denominational or fraternal relationship of parents. In fact, only about 15 percent of the children now
in the institution are of Masonic parentage. Admission will be 15 cents for children and 25 cents for adults. The
proceeds go to the support of the Orphanage.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Phi. Society, October 2—Affirmative: I. Currie, McClure, Sprunt, Clark, Neal, Clary. Negative: Morgan, McAlister, Worth, and Shaw.

October 4—Declamations and Orations: W.M. Currie, Dunlap, Patrick, Overton, Crawford, Craig, H.B. Faires, Horner, Paisley, McBride, J.L. McIntire.

Eu. Society, October 2—Affirmative: Aiken, Baker, Allen, Bennett. Negative: Beall, Boswell, W.J., Hobson, Dumas.

October 4—Declamations and Orations: Bellingrath, Boggs, Boswell, J.D.G., Sparrow, R., Brand, Brown, J.S., Edgerton, Hoyt, Hirdsen, D.V., Jenkins.

In the great Divine Plan, where nations are rising

HAVE The Davidsonian Sent Home Special Price of 50 cents if you are a subscriber.

For Davidson Men

PENNANTS : PILLOWS : BELTS

The thickest felt and softest colors in our Felt Goods. Belts that slip through belt straps and will not tarnish.

1915 WRIGHT & DITSON TENNIS BALLS

New Parker Self-filling Jack Knife Fountain Pens.

THE COMMISSARY

Complete Equipment for the Athlete. QUALITY FIRST

Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone
and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches, and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.

219 S. Tryon St. STIEFF Charlotte, N.C. Opposite Academy of Music

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N.C. Established 1842

STUDENTS: For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING get quotations from Brady Printing Company STATESVILLE, N.C. L.A.
MULLEN, Agent Special Attention to Davidson Men

DAVIDSON COLLEGE Davidson, North Carolina

THOROUGH COURSES : Well Equipped Laboratories

Florsheim Shoes, Hole-proof Hosiery GENTS’ FURNISHING Furniture, Druggets, Rugs, Etc. Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

LOOK! 6 for $1

If you want a nice fall suit, let him order it and he will press it four months FREE OF
CHARGE. If you want your suit done up-to-date let Alexander do it.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB Back of Meat Market
