6 The DAVIDSONIAN. May 5, 1915 ++ + e. $ The Modern Drug Store; With a complete line of Stationery, Candies, Toilet Articles and CAMPUSISMS. Mr. and Mrs. Simpson, of Woodruff, S.C., were on the Hill for a short time last Tuesday. They motored up from Charlotte with a party of friends. Oscar J. Thies has been called home unexpectedly on account of illness in the family. COMPLETE PLANS ARRANGED (Continued from page 1) exhibit by a team of ten Freshmen, showing the benefit of the training received in the compulsory gymnasium classes. Their work is truly remarkable for one practice, and it proves the success of this addition to the curriculum. An unusual part of the program is the Senior Class Exercises. This is to be made much more impressive and elaborate than ever before, and is to include the planting of the ivy, in accordance with an old English custom; the presentation of the class gift; and the presentation of the class book. These Seniors hope to introduce these last two as new customs at Davidson; especially the last, which is to be made as distinctive of Davidson as the presentation of the bowl and spoon is of Pennsylvania, or the daisy chain of Vassar. For the first time in the seventy-eight years of Davidson history, she is to witness an academic procession, both the Faculty and Senior class to wear caps and gowns. This is an almost universal custom, and one which will be welcomed here. The procession is to start from the Library, and march to the commencement hall, where the degrees will be awarded. As a culminating event comes the much-looked-forward-to Senior stunt. This has always been one of the most enjoyable affairs of the season, and the graduating classes of the last few years have made it extremely laughable. The present Senior class is practicing hard, and they promise a very agreeable surprise. The class of 1915 is making every effort to place this Commencement ahead of all others in interest and pleasure, and they bid fair to make it one to be long remembered. One of the changes in this year’s commencement program will be a joint meeting of the two literary societies in Shearer Hall on Monday night, May 24. Instead of the usual meetings in each society hall, an address will be delivered by a distinguished alumnus, thus giving both societies and all visitors a chance to hear the address. The committee was fortunate enough to secure Prof. S. H. Edmunds, of Sumter, S.C., an alumnus of the Eumenean Society, to deliver the address. Fountain Pens. Drink at our store—Sanitary Fountain White Drug Company, Incorporated Prescriptions A Specialty The Rexall Store WHAT! A new addition has been made to campus life in the shape of a beautiful bicycle, owned and operated by W. E. Williams. The principal feature of this machine is the “Honk.” One of the boys, after attending a Lyceum that seemed to him to be inferior to advertisement, was heard recently to remark: “It was all ‘Ly’ and no ‘ceum.’” WE SAY WE DO, WE DO Do! Make Your Old Suit As Good As New Agents for Dry Cleaning and Dyeing Davidson Pressing Club Alexander & Mayberry, Props. A new “Brush” sweeps clean. Mr. Wooten reports an empty pocketbook. Last Friday the Davidson High School team journeyed to Taylorsville to play the High School there. The game resulted in a defeat for D. H. S. by a score of 2 to 1. “Butch” McKay ('17) has gone to Rock Hill, S.C., to be present at the South Carolina Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest. “Bob” Critz (’17) left Saturday to spend a few days in Winston-Salem. Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars and Drinks The one best place to stop while in Charlotte. EUROPEAN PLAN CAFE IN CONNECTION Prescriptions Carefully Compounded Davidson Drug Co. “Chink” Wilkinson, during a state of hectic exuberance caused by passing a Math review, was seen spending fifteen cents in Mr. Scofield’s establishment Wednesday morning. It is rumored that P. D. Patrick, while in a condition of semi-coma (so he alleges) correctly answered a quiz on Biology. The Professor consequently detained him after class and warned him that a few marks would absolutely ruin his otherwise noteworthy record. Mr. Patrick wishes his friends to know that he immediately placed upon the hint and that the above-mentioned distressing incident hasHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

not reoccurred.

That famous old song “Where is my wandering Boy tonight?” was sung before an appreciative audience by Professor Edmunds, who is a distinguished educator of South Carolina. He has had to refuse invitations to deliver an address at two former Davidson Commencements.

Athletic News

Drop in and hear the latest dope. Exact duplicates of bats used by League players $1.00 each. “Oahe” prominent. Spalding “Featherweight” Base Ball Shoes. The lightest shoes ever made for ball playing use. $7.00 per pair. Other shoes from $7.00 to $30. The “Just Right” Infielder’s Glove. Broken-in model with the famous KING PATENT FELT PADDING. $5.00 each. Other gloves from $5.00 up.

Not as singing songs in the moonlight, for on the morrow Zero will be thy reward.

While at Davidson, Professor Edmunds had the unique distinction of attending every college exercise for the whole four years of his college work without a single tardy or absence.

Play with equipment bearing the Spalding Trade Mark—the kind the "Big Leaguers" use. Catalogue free on request. A.G. Spalding & Bros. L. A. MULLEN, Agent No. 2 Watts.

The fresh air fiends who slumber on the campus frequently have their dreams disturbed.

Prof—“Mr. H—, where do lights go when they go out?”
Mr. H—“I don’t know, doctor, it's too dark to see.”

TO PLAY SOUTH CAROLINA.

Arrangements have been completed for a football game with the University of South Carolina for next Fall, the exact date and place to be announced later. For years Davidson and South Carolina have been meeting on the gridiron annually, and supporters of both colleges will undoubtedly welcome the news.

Our stock of TOBACCO, CANDY, and STATIONERY is complete and up to the minute.

Baseball

Do you play the game? If so, we can be of aid to you with the finest equipment. Spalding “Players” Autograph Bats. Jetton Drug Co.

LOST—On the night of the Soph Feed, three bed springs, two chairs, one temper, and much sulphurous air. Finder please return to 2 Ga. or 7 Watts.

AMERICAN TRUST CO.

Give your Shoe Repair Work to SHU-FIXERY.

Freshman—“Doctor, did they have automobiles in the time of Xenophon?”
Prof—“Well, I hardly think so, Mr. Freshman.”
Freshman—“Well, my book states that Xenophon crossed the river Agis by ford.”

COMMERCIAL BANKING

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

COACH FETZER TO RETURN NEXT YEAR

At a student body meeting in Shearer Saturday afternoon, Coach Fetzer announced that he would return to Davidson next year. The prolonged applause that greeted this announcement demonstrated the high esteem in which he is held by the students, and all friends of the college will doubtless be equally pleased to learn of his return.

Coach Fetzer also announced that he has several plans on foot for next year of which, at that time, he was not at liberty to speak.

Last Wednesday about forty Davidson men went down to Charlotte to attend the Chapman-Alexander meetings, which are now in progress. A special train was provided for the Statesville, Mooresville, and Davidson delegations, a special invitation having been given to the Davidson students. This train left Davidson at 1:30 p.m. and returned at 11:30 p.m., thus enabling those who went to attend both the afternoon and evening services. All the Davidson men who went were deeply impressed both by the wonderful spirit and influence of Dr. Chapman and the inspiring song service led by Mr. Alexander.

When in Charlotte, it's the New Hotel Central under new management. Extensive improvements.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES

Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

---