The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. 3.

Tennis Tournament Nearing Completion; the Finals Yet to Be Played.

The singles in the tennis tournament have been delayed on account of rain, but matches were played every afternoon last week when it was not actually raining. The scores of the first round are as follows: Richardson defeated Douglas 11-9, 3-6, 6-3; Cunningham defeated Hollister 6-1, 6-3; Saunders defeated Reese 4-6, 10-8, 6-2; Mitchell won from Coachman by default; Finley, T., defeated Mayfield 6-1, 6-0; Shaw defeated Perry 6-3, 6-0; Hawkins won from Watt by default; Fraser won from Moore by default; McKee won from White by default; Kennedy defeated Keesler 6-0, 3-6, 6-2; Thomas defeated Hampton 6-4, 6-1, 6-0; Lott defeated Kornegay 6-4, 10-8; Price defeated Woods, F., 6-4, 7-5; Finley, R. G., won from Hall by default; Barnett defeated Hudson 6-3, 6-0; Miller defeated Brown 6-4, 6-8, 6-2; Roddy defeated Howard 6-4, 6-4, completing the first round.

In the second round, Cunningham won from Richardson by default; Saunders defeated Mitchell 6-2, 5-7, 7-5; Finley, T., defeated Shaw 6-1, 6-0; Hawkins defeated Fraser 9-7, 7-9, 6-2; Kennedy defeated McKee 6-3, 6-4; Thomas defeated Lott 6-2, 6-1; Finley, R. G., defeated Price 6-2, 6-2.

In the third round, Saunders defeated Cunningham 6-2, 10-8; Finley, T., defeated Hawkins 6-0, 6-1; Kennedy defeated Thomas 2-6, 7-5, 6-3; Barnett defeated Roddy 6-2, 6-2; Finley, R. G., defeated Barnett 6-3, 7-5.

In the semi-finals, Saunders defeated T. A. Finley 6-8, 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 10-8. The winner of the R. G. Finley vs. Kennedy match will play Saunders in the finals.

DAVIDSON PLAYS ROANOKE COLLEGE SATURDAY

Davidson goes to Winston-Salem Saturday to match her strength against the Roanoke College eleven. This is the first time in the history of the college athletics that these two colleges have faced each other on the gridiron. Roanoke has an unusually strong team for a college of its size. Last year they tied V. P. I. 7-7, and this year they held the heavy A. & M. team to 0-0. They did not play last Saturday, so should be in the best possible condition.

The Davidson team has felt the effects of the three heavy games at the first of the season, but they, also, with the exception of the light game Saturday, will have had a two weeks’ rest. They have spent the last few days in smoothing off any ragged edges that showed in the previous games, and are expected to be in excellent condition.

COMPARATIVE SCORES.

Below are given the results of games played Saturday by teams that we have already played this season or are to play:
Washington and Lee 12, V. P. I. 0
Wake Forest 0, A. & M. 7
Clemson 0, Auburn 14
U. of U. C. 0, Georgetown 38
Georgia Tech 57, Transylvania 0

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 20, 1915.

The Campaign a Success Under Leadership of Chapman-Alexander

One Match in the Semi-Finals and Entire Student Body Attends the Services -- Splendid Enthusiasm Aroused --- Many

The fall evangelistic campaign conducted last week by Dr. Chapman, Mr. Alexander, and their assistants, Mr. Brown and Mr. Barraclough, was undoubtedly the most remarkable event in the history of Davidson within the memory of the students now on the Hill. Its success was phenomenal, largely due to the extensive preparation and to the emphasis placed on private interviews.

PREPARATION.

Since school opened in September there has been a “floor prayer meeting” conducted on nearly every floor of every dormitory at 10 o'clock each night. The development of the spirit of prayer and consecration has been extremely noticeable as a result, so much so that the student body has voted to continue these prayer meetings throughout the year. In addition to this, there was held every morning just previous to chapel service a morning watch prayer meeting in the parlors of the library, to which a number of men interested in the work came. Word has also come that daily prayer meetings were held at Union Seminary by the thirty-five Davidson men there for the success of the meetings. Letters to many Davidson supporters and trustees were mailed from Dr. Martin’s office requesting prayer for the success of the meetings as well.

INTERVIEWS.

The personal interviews with the leaders of the meetings for all men who wished to discuss the problems of life and its callings were a feature of the campaign. The Bachelor’s Club, and the Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi, and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities generously donated the use of their halls for this purpose, and the interviews were accordingly held there. The leaders holding them were Dr. Chapman, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Brown, Dr. Rolston, and “Tim” Pharr. In all, probably a total of about sixty or more of these interviews were held, and their influence was very marked.

THE MEETINGS.

Because of the shortness of their stay, the party had requested that no social festivities be arranged in their honor, so the entire time was spent in religious work. On Monday night a preliminary prayer and praise service was led by Mr. Pharr to place the men in the proper attitude of mind for the succeeding meetings, and it was well attended. Tuesday night Dr. Chapman held the first service, and opened the series by a striking sermon on “What Shall I Do With Jesus?” The development was based on emphasis on the several words of the question: “What shall I do?” “What shall I do?” and “What shall I do with Jesus?” A number of men stood for prayer in the meeting, and the remarkable successThe following is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of this as a first meeting was commented on by both Dr. Chapman and Mr. Alexander. The attention was perfect. The regular class periods were shortened ten minutes each on Wednesday and Thursday, and chapel held at the Interviews Held. 10:30 to 11:30 hour. On Wednesday Chapman took as his text Isaiah 49:2: “And made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath he hid me.” These words were spoken of Jesus, but are applicable to us as well. In comparison with the arrow, we are unable to be effective and powerful in ourselves, but require a larger motive-power, a divine power, behind us. We must be polished, better to overcome obstacles and go straight and true to the mark. The quiver was carried on the left side, and in placing us there God has placed us next to His heart. It was a sermon of purpose and life-work decision; and among other things Dr. Chapman said that a ditch-digger can be just as truly laudable in his occupation as a missionary in his, but the man with missionary capabilities who becomes a ditch-digger commits a sin.

Wednesday afternoon a service was held in the church, to which all the residents of surrounding communities were cordially invited. Needless to say, standing room was at a premium and visitors were present who had come many miles for that service. The text was Peter's question: “Lord, to whom shall we go?” Dr. Chapman discussed drifting from the church because of intellectual difficulties, because of suffering and sorrow, because of sin, because of neglect, and because of failure to observe daily Bible reading and prayer. At the close of the service a testimony was given by C. M. Fite, a former gambler of Charlotte, converted under Dr. Chapman there. Mr. Fite's story made a deep impression on his hearers and was afterward widely discussed. He is now devoting his spare time (about three nights a week, and Sunday) to the preaching of the gospel in Mecklenburg County, taking with him three others of his own crowd converted in the last six months.

Wednesday night Dr. Chapman spoke from Hosea 8:7: “They have sown the wind; they shall reap the whirlwind.” It was a sermon on habit. In part Dr. Chapman said, “Every man has the ability to sow. * * * He may sow to the flesh or sow to the spirit. * * * Which way are you sowing?” One way is easier than the other, but it leads to death—the other leads to life everlasting. Which will you choose? At this service many of the men took a new stand for Christ and several publicly acknowledged Him as their Lord and Master.

Thursday morning the text was from Romans 10:9: “If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, and shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised Him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.” Confession is public acknowledgment in addition to mere intellectual assent. We must assent to three things: (1) We are sinners; (2) God has made provision for our escape from the penalty of sin; (3) Christ came, lived, suffered, and died that we might have life. If you doubt the efficacy of Christianity, think of some person who has been changed by it; would anything else have done it? Come while (Continued on page 4)

No. 6.

Wofford Is Defeated By Score of 45-0

Game Featured by Long End Runs and Forward Passes.

In a game which was rather slow on account of the extreme heat, Davidson on last Saturday defeated the Wofford College eleven by the score of 45-0. For Davidson the playing of Black, Laird, C. Walker, Crouch and McAlister was the feature, and for Wofford that of Glenn, Osborne, Covington and Mims.

Davidson kicked to Wofford, defending the south goal. Failing to gain, Osborne punted to Keesler. Regular gains by C. Walker, Laird and Black brought the ball to the Wofford 5-yard line, from which point Laird went through the line for the first touchdown. Grey kicked an easy goal. During the remainder of the first quarter and the whole of the second quarter, Wofford, although failing to make gains either through the Davidson line or by many attempted forward passes, nevertheless put up a stubborn defensive game. Whitesides made a fine tackle after Laird had made a 25-yard run from an intercepted forward pass.

At the beginning of the second half Coach Fetzer sent in the second eleven. Mixing line bucks with end runs the second string squad were able to score on Wofford in about the same time that it required the Varsity to score. A well-executed forward pass, Lawson to McAlister, behind the goal, accounted for Davidson's second touchdown. Grey failed to kick goal. A forward pass, Osborne to Moore, (Continued on page 4)

WALKER ELECTED CAPTAIN OF FOOTBALL TEAM

At a meeting of the “Wearers of the D.” held in the drawing room of the squad's private car, while en route to Atlanta to meet Georgia Tech, C. L. Walker was elected captain of the Davidson eleven to succeed “Big” McKinnon, who failed to return to college this year.

For two years Walker has been one of Davidson’s mainstays in the backfield. Before coming to Davidson he played a year with the Clemson Tigers. In all departments of the game he shows up with the “goods,” and Davidson is fortunate in having a fighter of his caliber to captain its eleven.

C. WALKER, CAPTAIN 1915-16.