4 GREENVILLE ALUMNI

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 17, 1915

The executive committee shall be as follows:

At a meeting held in the Central Y. M. C. A. recently at 6:30, the Constitution and By-Laws which were drafted and suggested by the committee of three appointed by our President, Mr. J. I. Woodside, were adopted. The gentlemen on this committee were Dr. E. P. Davis, Dr. J. L. Anderson, and Mr. Hal Barr. The Constitution was read carefully by Dr. Anderson, and after going over the details, and considering several points, it was the will of the members present that the Constitution and By-Laws be adopted as presented below:

Constitution.

Article 1. The name of this Association shall be the “Davidson College Alumni Association of Greenville, South Carolina.”

Article 2. The object of the association shall be to provide for the organization of the alumni of Davidson College in Greenville, South Carolina, to the end that they may be brought more intimately in touch with the affairs of the college and that the institution may thereby have the benefit of the united interest and efforts of her Alumni.

Article 3. Any alumnus or matriculate of Davidson College who is a resident of Greenville County, South Carolina, shall be eligible for membership in the Association, and may become a member upon the payment of the annual dues of two ($2.00) dollars.

Article 4.

Section 1. The officers of the Association shall be a president, first, second and third vice-presidents, recording secretary, corresponding secretary, treasurer, executive committee, and chairmen of the entertainment, athletic, scholarship, finance and publicity, and membership committees.

Section 2. The executive committee shall be composed of the president, recording secretary, treasurer, and the chairmen of the above-named committees.

Article 5. The president shall preside at all meetings, shall be ex-officio chairman of the executive committee and shall perform all the duties usually belonging to this office.

Article 6. The respective vice-presidents, in the absence or disability of the president, shall preside and exercise all the powers and perform all the duties pertaining to the office of president.

Article 7.

Section 1. The recording secretary shall keep accurate minutes and records of all proceedings, give members due notice of time and place of meetings of the Association and perform all duties usually assigned to this office.

Section 2. The corresponding secretary shall attend to all the official correspondence of the Association and perform all the duties generally incident to this office.

Section 3. The treasurer shall keep an accurate account, take charge of, collect and disburse all money due or belonging to the Association.

Article 8. The duties of the executive committee shall be to assist and advise with the officers of the Association concerning their respective duties, to outline and direct the activities of the Association between meetings, and to see that the objects and aims of the Association are carried out.

Article 9. There shall be a regular annual meeting held the first week in January, at which time the officers for the year shall be elected. The exact date of this meeting shall be determined by the executive committee. A quorum shall consist of ten members of the Association.

Article 10. This Constitution may be amended at any annual meeting, and at any call meeting, notice of which shall have been given at least three days in advance thereof by the recording secretary stating the object thereof.

Article 11. The By-Laws of the Association may be changed or modified by the executive committee at any time.

By-Laws.

Section 1. The annual dues of the Association shall be two ($2.00) dollars, payable on the first day of January of each year.

Section 2. Reading of minutes of last meeting. Reports of officers. Report of executive committee. Reports of special committees. Unfinished business. New business. For the good of the order.

Section 3. The parliamentary rules as laid down in “Robert's Rules of Order” shall govern the proceedings of the Association and of the executive committee.

Section 4. All elections shall be by ballot.

Section 5. The recording secretary shall make and keep a record of all the matriculates of Davidson College residing in the County of Greenville, South Carolina, which shall be revised by December 31 of each year.

Section 6. The recording secretary shall mail due notices to all the members on the roll of the Association three days before any meeting.

DR. RICHARDS IS GIVEN LEAVE OF ABSENCE

At a congregational meeting last Sun-Day the Presbyterian Church of Davidson voted to give their pastor a leave of four months in which to serve Davidson College. Dr. Richards will leave the 1st of April. Of the prospective $100,000 endowment fund, $6,000 has already been raised. Dr. Richards will help to raise the remainder of this. His plan is, briefly, as follows: He will raise the money among the alumni. Each class of alumni will be organized and will be urged to contribute $500. This, it is hoped, will bring splendid results. Dr. Richards expects to devote the whole time of four months to this. He has undertaken a great work for the college at no small cost to himself. Davidson men owe a debt of gratitude to their pastor and the church which has so unselfishly allowed him to go. During his absence, the church will be supplied by speakers from other places.

MRS. MOTTE MARTIN HERE WEDNESDAY

Mrs. Motte Martin was at Davidson last week. Wednesday afternoon she made a talk to the Ladies’ Missionary Society. Immediately following that, from 5 to 6:30 o'clock, the Student Volunteer Band met with her at Dr. Arbuckle’s home. The meeting held was a most enjoyable one. It was entirely informal, so much so as to hardly fit the name of meeting, but rather a chat. It was entirely made up of questions and answers about all the mission fields, and Africa especially. All conceivable questions were fired at Mrs. Martin, but they were readily answered with many pieces of valuable advice. It was no small regret to the Volunteers that the supper bell rang so soon. Mrs. Martin, during her visit, stayed at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. Before going to Africa, Mrs. Martin went to college at Agnes Scott and was for several years a pupil of Dr. Arbuckle.

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST POSTPONED

On account of the special meetings which are being held in the Presbyterian church, the Fresh-Soph Declamatory contest, which was scheduled for last Monday night, was postponed until next Tuesday night. All entrants are urged to hand in their names as early as possible to the president of the literary society.

DAVIDSON CHESS CLUB

The Davidson Chess Club is now in the midst of its spring tournament. Most of the initial games have been played. Twelve contestants are competing for the championship. Soon the semi-finals will be played, and then will follow the decisive game of the season.

"WORTH SMACKING YOUR LIPS OVER"

FREE DEMONSTRATION NORRIS’ EXQUISITE CANDY

You just must try some of NORRIS’ Exquisite Candies, in order to appreciate how wonderfully good they are. On next Saturday, March 20, from 3 to 6, we will conduct a free demonstration and cordially invite you to visit our establishment and sample these delicious confections. This candy, for which we have the agency, is the product of America’s Master candy-maker, and in addition to being far beyond any candy produced in America, it is packed in boxes so beautiful that they offer a feast for the eyes not soon forgotten. Price, eighty cents, one dollar, and one fifty per pound. Your inspection is solicited without any obligation on your part to purchase.

WHITE DRUG CO. Exclusive Agents

JETTON Drug Store is the place for the best Soda Drinks, Cigars, Cigarettes, and a full assortment of Huyler’s Candy.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING

Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES

Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

EXPERIENCE TEACHES

That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite summer sport. Equipment that's just a little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.

Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field

Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.

A.G. Spalding & Bros. L. A. MULLEN, Agent No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JONSON Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT Extensive Improvements