JUNIOR SPEAKING LADIES. The following young ladies were present at the Junior Oratorical exercises:

From Charlotte, N. C.: Misses Abigail Alexander, Elizabeth Alexander, Mary Stuart Alexander, Aileen Butt, Mildred Butt, Margaret Cowles, Susie Cowles,
Mildred Finlayson, Bessie Lee Flowe, Corrine Gibbon, Rose Hawkins, Margaret Hill, Yorke Huston, Agnes Ormand, Eugenia Russell, Katherine Steele.

From Davidson, N. C.: Misses Merle Booe, Irene Foreman, Mary Parks Grey, Irene Hudson, Louise Manning, Bonnie Shelton, Martha Thompson,
Catherine Worth, W. R. Young.

All others are as follows:
Miss Daisy Belk, Monroe, N. C.
Miss Alice Clarke, Alberta, Va.
Miss Anna Morgan Faucette, Burlington, N. C.
Miss Rebecca Fleming, Statesville, N. C.
Miss Frances Goode, Asheville, N. C.
Miss Donalda Hagen, New York, N. Y.
Miss Essie Hagood, Easley, S. C.
Miss Louise Hine, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Miss Octavia Hine, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Miss Mary Johnson, Mooresville, N. C.
Miss Rose Jones, Charleston, W. Va.
Miss Gene Lindsay, Camden, S. C.
Miss Ruth Lowe, Spartanburg, S. C.
Miss Elizabeth Magill, Richmond, Va.
Miss Susie McGluck, Fredericksburg, Va.
Miss Elizabeth McKenzie, Salisbury, N. C.
Miss Gladys McKinnon, Brunswick, Ga.
Miss Gretchen Moore, Tryon, N. C.
Miss Earnestine Nutall, Rockingham, N. C.
Miss Louise O'Farrell, Kings Mountain, N. C.
Miss Zoe Almand, Bessemer City, N. C.
Miss Kathleen Parks, Huntersville, N. C.
Miss Cordie Parks, Huntersville, N. C.
Miss Helen Peyton, Rapidan, Va.
Miss Pauline Prentiss, Greenville, S. C.
Miss Lynn Richardson, Greensboro, N. C.
Miss Mary Roddy, Rock Hill, S. C.
Miss Margaret Sellers, Easley, S. C.
Miss Virgil Sellers, Easley, S. C.
Miss Sarah Smith, Easley, S. C.
Miss Nell Somerville, Rapidan, Va.
Miss Archibalda Jones, Davidson, N. C.

CAMPUSISMS.
“Preacher” Morrison is confined in the Infirmary with lagrippe.
R. W. McKay ('17) has gone to Charlotte to enter the Sanatorium on account of illness.
Frank Smith was able to deliver his Junior speech Saturday afternoon in spite of the fact that he has been
sick for some time with a severe sore throat.
Dr. Sentelle, who left the Hill for a short trip last Thursday, met his classes again on Tuesday.
The Varsity-All-Star game of baseball which was to have been played last Friday afternoon, but was called off on account
of the bad weather, will be played Wednesday afternoon. It is the first game of the season, and the Varsity
will meet an opponent worthy of their steel.
Norman Farrior is out of the Infirmary after a week's confinement.
F. M. Mitchell was in the Infirmary last week with lagrippe.
D. W. Lane has returned to Davidson to complete the session.

THE DAVIDSONIAN. March 10, 1915

GYMNASIUM TEAM GIVES EXCELLENT EXHIBITION
Saturday afternoon an exhibition was given in Shearer Hall by the Gym Team. The entertainment began at 4 o'clock, when
the ten athletes walked out on the stage and formed a large semi-circle pyramid. Just as they retired, a crash
and clatter was heard at the rear of the building, and three clowns, so painted and disguised that they were
unrecognizable, ran down the aisle and climbed upon the stage. During the whole program, they, by their humorous action and
words, drew many peals of laughter from the audience.

Then the team began the exhibition. First, the several athletes vaulted, dived, and turned hand-springs over the “horse” in rapid
succession and bewildering variety. Following this came the “elephant.” On this, the “stunts” were of the same kind as on
the horse except they were greater and more difficult. Then there were several graceful, individual “stunts” on the parallel bars.
The team next skillfully and rapidly formed graceful human pyramids. In the tumbling and diving that followed, the team showed
the results of the hard training they had undergone. The work on the horizontal bar was very good. Then with
a squash pyramid by the team and a last bow and grimace by the clowns, the exhibition ended.

The members of the team were: Bennett, Gilchrist, Hawkins, J. R. Jones, Porter, P. B. Price, McKeithan, Thacker, Winn, and
Young. The clowns were: A. M. Fairley, King, and R. Minter. The features of the exhibition were the work by
Thacker and the acting by Minter. Phil Price astonished the audience by some fancy Chinese rope jumping. The entertainment was
attended by a large, appreciative crowd. All could see that the men were greatly hampered by lack of space and
poor apparatus, but felt that despite these handicaps, the team had given a good exhibit.

MENTAL AND PHYSICAL COLLEGE STANDARDS
The following article appeared in a recent newspaper, and is well...Worth consideration: That Virginia colleges have organized a union of
their own, one object of which is that no youth ignorant of the rudiments of learning shall contend with studies
beyond the range of his comprehension, is as it should be. If college education is to stand for anything, it
must mean that certain definite tasks have been accomplished, and this ideal will be advanced by fixing a uniform standard
for college entrance. A hope may be ventured that the association, while it is adopting rules and regulations, may go
a step further and take over an idea which Dr. Henry L. Smith, its president, has introduced at Washington and
Lee. He has laid down the law that no student shall receive a degree from his college who is physically
unfit and cannot swim. However puny the products of other institutions may be, the Lexington graduate must be a puissant
knight, prepared for the battle of life. Washington and Lee’s rule is one of the best conditions ever required in
an educational establishment. Our schools have been cursed in the past by indifference to the physical welfare of students. Gymnasiums
have been maintained, but as a purely optional form of amusement. Both in this country and abroad the toll of
study has been a heavy one. Bismarck once said that one-third of the German university men ruined themselves by dissipation,
one-third by over-study, and the remaining third ruled the empire. That so large a percentage of students were incapacitated by
study was the fault of the system. If more importance is attached to the general well-being of the student than
to the passing of an examination, and if no degrees are given unless the candidates can swim, box, or otherwise
acquit themselves muscularly, there will be fewer college graduate failures than at present.

LYCEUM ATTRACTION NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT

A Lyceum attraction, “The Treble Clef Club,” will be presented in Shearer Hall next Saturday night. It is composed of
four young ladies of more than local renown. The program consists of vocal quartets, vocal solos and duets, and humorous
costume selections especially written for their performance. It is desired that the students and all others who can possibly do
so, should patronize this concert, because the chance of securing an additional attraction this Spring depends upon the degree of
success with which this one meets. The manager of the Orchestra and Glee Club reports that its concert was attended
by one of the largest audiences that it has had in several years at Davidson.

University of N. C.—The University of N. C. Dramatic Club, starting on March 28, will take an extended trip through
the State. The play which will be given by them is “Arms and the Man.”

JETTON Drug Store is the place for the best Soda Drinks, Cigars, Cigarettes, and a full assortment of Huyler’s Candy.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements

Headquarters for Drinks, Cigars, Candy and Toilet Preparations
Prescription Work A Specialty
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mahew Pressing Club
Alexander & Mayberry, Props.

EXPERIENCE TEACHES
That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite Summer sport. Equipment that's just a
little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.

Complete Equipment For
BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field

Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To
W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Drugs, Drinks, Cigars and Toilet Preparations
The Davidson Drug Company
