The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 20, 1915. NO. 15

Mr. Nolen Considers Gymnasium Location Hundred Thousand Dollar Endowment Campaign.

Mr. John Nolen, the architect who furnished the plans for the new Queens College and other improvements in the Myers Park section of Charlotte, was on the Hill last Friday and went over the grounds with President Martin with a view to submitting plans for the future development and beautifying of the campus. Mr. Nolen was very impressed with the majestic appearance of the old Chambers building and said that it would make an excellent central building for a plan laid out in accordance with the principles of landscape architecture.

On Friday evening, in Shearer Hall, Mr. Nolen gave a stereopticon lecture on the Landscape History and Development of Architecture. First were shown scenes of the old formal school, of which the Frenchman, LeNotre, was the chief exponent. The gardens of the palace at Versailles, extending for four miles back of the palace, were designed by him and executed under his direction. Next were shown slides illustrating the present tendency in architecture, which might be called the informal or Natural School. The transition stage between these two schools was shown by examples from the English country homes. Olmstead, who planned the grounds of the Capitol as they stand today, was the exponent of the new school. In addition to his work at the Capitol, he planned many of the large parks in New York, Boston, and other cities. Mr. Nolen himself has designed many parks, including Franklin Park in Boston, which within that city presents a pastoral scene whose cool, refreshing air and natural wildness are not to be excelled by the most famous English countryside.

While no definite plans have as yet been made public, it is understood that Mr. Nolen has prepared several maps and blueprints which will be submitted to the trustees, and the location of the new gymnasium will probably be in accordance with them. The prospects for this new gymnasium are very bright. Announcement has just been made by President Martin of the completion of the plans for raising $100,000 just as soon as possible. Of this amount, there has already been subscribed $57,000, only leaving a balance to be raised of $43,000. Of this sum, $25,000 has been pledged for the new gymnasium, and it should only be a short time until the whole amount is pledged and the college has this new building, for which there is great need. The General Education Board of New York City has again shown its confidence and appreciation of the work being done by Davidson College in agreeing to give 25 percent of the sum raised, and this is a source of much gratification to the many friends of the institution.

MR. MARVIN RITCH COACHES BASKETBALL.

Mr. Marvin Ritch came up for a couple of days to help round the basketball team into shape. Mr. Ritch was of great assistance to the squad, who needed the aid of a professional. Mr. Ritch played on the basketball team of the University of Georgetown and has played on the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. team for several years. The squad looks very promising, and something can be expected from them.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town the Village People.

The Masons of the town have reorganized and held their first meeting last Saturday night. The Book Lovers’ Club met last Thursday with Mrs. T. W. Lingle. The meeting was largely attended, the subject being Ballads and Folk Lore. Miss Callie Christenbury attended the wedding of Mr. H. Brown and Miss Morris last week at Huntersville. In spite of the bad weather, there has been quite a large attendance at the Delburg Sunday school. Two new teachers have taken up the work. The teachers of the Sunday school will meet at the Manse Friday night for consultation concerning their work. Miss Sallie Lafferty has returned from a short visit to Summerville, S. C. Mr. John Clair Minter has left for Hopkins to complete his work for a Ph.D. Miss Lois Smith has returned near to Charlotte to resume her duties teaching school. There was a meeting of the Civic League last Tuesday afternoon at Mrs. Brady's. Miss Annie King, of Cornelius, spent Sunday here with Miss Callie Christenbury. Miss Annie Armour has returned from Charlotte, where she has undergone a severe operation. Her condition is greatly improved. Miss Fannie McBryde Worth is visiting the home of Mrs. Davidson.

DAVIDSON VITAL STATISTICS

Comparison of death figures for three years: 1912, 1913, 1914.
Dysentery: 3, 3, 3
Pellagra: 1, 1, 1
Pneumonia: 2, 2, 2
Tuberculosis: 1, 2, 1
Persons over 70 years: 7, 3, 3
Infants, 1 month or less: 2, 5, 5
Train wreck: 1, 0, 0
Gunshot: 1, 0, 0
Total deaths: 18, 20, 23
Births: 50

Without any appreciable increase in population, at first glance, it looks as if our death rate is increasing, yet the fact that two deaths were not from disease and five were infants under one month old leaves the balance (from causes that might in any way be considered as local) considerably lessened. In fact, it is only 16. Infectious diseases reported during the year: Whooping cough, 3; measles, 2; scarlet fever, 3. There were, however, some cases of typhoid and a number of children ill with diarrheal troubles in addition to the three that died, and both of these can be prevented. Let us not forget the fact as we start to work in the new year, that during last year three little ones died because conditions in the homes or in the town were not what they should have been.

Inter-class Football Will Begin This Week

About Three Teams Will Contest Hotly For Class Cup.

Great interest is being exhibited among the several classes over the approaching class football season. The Athletic Field is daily theScene of spirited practice and the competition for positions on the respective teams is keen. Owing to hard work and approaching graduation, it is understood that the Seniors will have no team this year. Tom Pee has been elected manager of the Junior team and Hugh Mints P. Laird is managing the Sophs. As yet they have not chosen their captain. The Freshmen have elected neither manager nor captain, but under the guidance and efficient coaching of McKinnon are rapidly developing a well-organized team. The first game is scheduled for Wednesday afternoon, Juniors vs. Freshmen. A nominal admission of 10 cents will be charged and it is expected that a large aggregation of the five classes will be present to back their respective teams.

SPRING DEBATES

Two intercollegiate debates have been arranged by Davidson for the spring term. The first of these, with Clemson, April 5, at Winthrop College, will be on the subject, “Resolved, That foreign immigration should be further restricted by the imposition of a literacy test.” The second debate, with Emory College, the same date, will be on the subject, “Resolved, That an alliance of the American nations should take the place of the Monroe Doctrine.” Preliminary contests to determine the two teams for these debates will be held in both literary societies on Monday, January 25. The subject for these will be the same as that for the Clemson contest. Four representatives from each society will be chosen from the preliminaries to participate in the finals, which will be held February 12, in Shearer Hall, on the subject of the Emory debate. From these contestants, two teams of two men each will be selected to represent Davidson in the contests with Clemson and Emory. Much interest is being shown in these debates, the reference room of the library, where the librarian, Miss Shaw, has collected an abundance of material, being crowded every afternoon. It is probable that there will be eight or ten entrants from each society and every student is urged to take an interest in the contests by entering them and by attending them.

NEW Y. M. C. A. OFFICERS ELECTED

At the regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night, the new officers for next year were elected. The election resulted as follows: President, W. G. Somerville; Vice-President, J. G. Patton; Treasurer, P. B. Price; Assistant Treasurer, J. H. Meek; Secretary, A. P. Reese. This plan of electing the new officers early was tried for the first time last year and was a complete success. The new officers take up their duties April 1st and thus become accustomed to their respective duties before September when the new work begins. The outlook is bright indeed and everything points to a fine year for the new officers.

“Bill” Fetzer Coach 1915 Baseball Season

Successor and Brother of “Bob” Fetzer Will Train Spring Team.

The announcement by the college authorities of the agreement of William McKenzie ("Bill") Fetzer to coach Davidson's athletics for the coming year was greeted with great enthusiasm by the Student Body. Fetzer is well known in Virginia and Carolina athletic circles and Davidson is to be congratulated on procuring his services. He takes the place of his brother, Bob Fetzer, who led Davidson through one of the most successful football seasons on record. The team tasted defeat only once during the entire season and tallied a total of 257 points to their opponents’ 32. Davidson has a wide-awake Alumni Athletic Association and it is responsible for a large part of the success of the past season. Bill Fetzer is a graduate of Davidson, Class of 1912. While there he played on both the Varsity baseball and football teams and was picked for the All-South Atlantic team in the latter sport. Since leaving college he has been connected with practically all of the teams of the Virginia League in the capacity of either player or manager. He was also for a time with Charlotte, later with Anderson, in the Carolina Association. He finished the season with Connie Mack. Retiring from professional baseball, he took up coaching at Fishburne Military Academy having an interest in that institution. For the past two seasons, Fetzer has been conducting Camp Sapphire, in Western North Carolina, and directing the athletics of that camp. Coach Fetzer's immediate and universal popularity with the Student Body is proof positive of his success.

BASEBALL PROSPECTS

Since the beginning of the spring term, the question uppermost in the minds of those students who are wont to discuss athletic topics is, “What are Davidson's prospects in baseball this spring?” While it is yet too early to make any definite prophecy as to the success of the season, nevertheless Manager Shaw, who knows at first hand Davidson’s available baseball material, both old and new, is of the opinion that the prowess of the “Red and Black Machine” on the baseball diamond this spring will measure up to that of former years. During the few fair days last week, a number of candidates for the Varsity squad, under the direction of Coach “Bill” Fetzer, were undergoing a light limbering up preparatory to regular spring practice which begins only a little more than a month hence. At present, Manager Shaw is busy completing the schedule of games which he hopes will be ready for publication by next week. The only information concerning the schedule which he cares to reveal now is that Davidson will not play Lenoir, Catawba, Oak Ridge, Deaf and Dumb School, and Guilford. By dropping these games, which are all with preparatory schools and colleges in North Carolina, he will be able to arrange contests with the representative colleges of Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia. This change will practically eliminate all practice games and make the schedule more uniform.

I. P. McNeill (ex '16) and Wm. McKenzie (ex '16) of Florence, S. C., were on the Hill last week. See W. Y. Sayad, No. 7 Chambers.