The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Glee Club Gives Star Performance
Musical Aggregation of Queens College a Grand Success.

It was Queens College night at Davidson Monday night. The occasion was the concert by the Glee Club from the
former college, under the direction of Mrs. Coral Havner Baker. To say that the concert was a great success and
that the numbers were perfectly lovely is merely to quote a part of the milder type of commendation evoked from
the college students as hosts. This verbal praise was affirmed and reaffirmed by the insistent and well-nigh continuous demands for
encores, to which the fair musicians responded most generously. But twenty-four of the forty members of the club were present,
and these sang in perfect harmony a program replete with musical numbers which, although not of the heavy opera class,
were of the type most appreciated by the students, and also one in which the singers excelled. Mrs. Baker is
to be congratulated upon the excellent training shown by the entire club.

Among the many excellent numbers on the program so enthusiastically received were “No Loafing,” a tale of the deplorable condition
at Queens; “The Man and the Maiden,” a story of the lovelorn Davidson student who choked to death on his
football yell and thereby caused the death of his Queens College sweetheart, will never be forgotten. The vocal solos by
Misses Wooten, Mason, and Clark were beautiful, and elicited much applause. The club was assisted by Miss Smith, violin, and
Miss Stokes, solo pianist, both of whom showed a remarkable mastery of the technique of these instruments. On the whole,
the entire concert was one of the most enjoyable events of the season to the Davidsonians, and it is hoped
to make this visit from our sister college an annual affair.

At the close of the concert, an informal reception was held in the Library building by the Athletic Association in
honor of the fair visitors. The young ladies who composed the Queens College Glee Club were Misses Cora Blake, Kate
Alford, Smith, Stokes, Evelyn Finley, Elizabeth Blalock, Nanette Blalock, Alva Harrell, Mary Yorke, Houston, Evelyn Boyd, Reba Brawley, Willie Choate,
Gazelle Kennedy, Ruth Mason, Nelle Moore, Mary McLean, Marjory Dance, Moena Hand, Margaret Stokes, Bessie McLeod, Sarah Wooten, Margaret Newell,
Mattilee Carol Baker, and Young. The members of the Glee Club were entertained at the homes of Mesdames Wooten, Johnston,
Douglas, and Arbuckle for the night, and departed on the morning train for Charlotte.

THE NEW CATALOGUE.

The new Davidson College catalog was mailed to all the students last week, and it shows a considerable improvement over
the last catalogue issued. The most noticeable change is the black cover instead of the white cover, as has heretofore
been used. It is nicely bound and as a whole presents a very neat appearance. The students and friends of
the college will be glad to note that the states and countries represented at Davidson this year cover a wider
range than in previous years. Thus the fame of our college spreads.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

Rev. G. W. Lafferty, class of ‘83, pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Summerville, S.C., is here visiting. Mr.
Lafferty has just returned from Florida, where he has spent the winter.

Miss Carrie Hood, teacher of the seventh and eighth grades, is now preparing for commencement. There will probably be an
oratorical contest again. If so, this will be a great success, as many of the speakers of last year will
try for the medals again this year.

Mr. Eugene Johnston, of New Orleans, La., spent the weekend with his parents.

Mrs. Hood, of Chester, S.C., mother of Miss Carrie Hood, is expected to arrive in the city the latter part
of the week.

Mr. John Lackey has returned to Davidson from his mountain home.

A boys' Missionary Society has been started by the boys of the Presbyterian church. The officers are as follows: President,
Joe McConnell; Vice President, Howard Arbuckle; Secretary, Owen Manning; Treasurer, Eustace Lingle. Mrs. T. W. Lingle has charge of the
society. At present, they are saving money for the Barium Springs Orphanage.

Last Thursday, Dr. and Mrs. Lingle were the guests of honor at a luncheon given by Mrs. C. C. Hook,
at Charlotte. After the luncheon, Dr. Lingle gave an address before the Woman's Club. Dr. Lingle was also a guest
at a meeting of the Greater Charlotte Club while there.

Dr. Fulton is to lecture to the upper grades of the local graded school this week.

Miss Mary Templeton, of Mooresville, is visiting her sister, Mrs. Brady, this week.

Mrs. Motte Martin was here for a few days last week, staying at Mrs. Arbuckle's.

Mrs. C. N. G. Butt, of Concord, came to nurse her sister, Mrs. Hall, who is sick.

Miss Sarah Wooten spent the weekend with her mother.

Mr. Jim Steele, of Mooresville, was here Sunday.

Mrs. Crowell and her little daughter are visiting with Mrs. Barnes.

Dr. Arbuckle and Mrs. John Reid have organized a negro night school. Mr. W. G. Somerville has charge of it,
and ten of the college boys have volunteered to teach. Already twenty-seven colored men and boys have been enrolled.

Prof. A. Currie attended the lectures by ex-President Taft last week at Chapel Hill.

President Martin will deliver the address before the Society of Missionary Inquiry of Columbia Seminary at its commencement on May
9.

Splendid Services During the Week
Dr. Graham Brings Forceful Message to People of City.

Dr. Graham has just finished a series of very successful services. The attendance throughout the week has been very good
and everyone has manifested a spirit of true earnestness and desire for spiritual help. The services were impressive and spiritual
from the first, showing the earnestness and power of Dr. Graham. His first sermon was rather an introductory one. In
this sermon he...brought out the love of Christ for the world. In his second sermon, Dr. Graham brought to his
audience the command of Christ to the world, “Love ye one another.” The sermons that followed were based on the
great truth that Christ can reach a man in any condition or in any walk of life with His saving
power. The speaker held up before his audience from time to time with splendid eloquence the patient waiting of Christ.

Tuesday evening Dr. Graham's text was: “Jesus beholding him, loved him.” He spoke of the three persons or groups of
persons who it is said that Christ loved—the young ruler, John the disciple, and Lazarus with his two sisters. He
remarked that the rich young ruler has often been misjudged by commentators, that they often see nothing lovable in this
character. Dr. Graham brought out clearly some of the lovable qualities of this young man. He was young, and everyone
admires and loves splendid young manhood. He was clean and pure, and sincerely declared that he had kept all the
commandments. The lesson that the speaker drew from this was that we must pay whatever price Christ demands of us
if we are seekers after deeper spiritual life.

Thursday evening Dr. Graham brought a message from Luke 19:5. He spoke of Zaccheus as the man who had deliberately
sinned and then just as deliberately, had come back to God. He pictured Zaccheus as the lonely, ostracized Jew, seeking
in his loneliness, one look at Jesus as He was passing. Then he brought out the deep love of Christ
that prompted Him to stoop and lift up this soul-hungry man who was willing, after the love of Christ had
touched his life, to restore fourfold to those whom he had wronged and who gave the half of his goods
to feed the poor.

Saturday evening Dr. Graham contrasted the characters of Peter, Thomas, and Joseph of Arimathea. Peter, the impetuous disciple, who declared
eternal allegiance to Christ and then in a very short while denied Him with curses, was, however, not beyond saving,
for when the cock crew he came to himself and looking in the direction of his Lord, he received such
a look of love that he went out into the night and wept bitterly. In contrast to this impetuous character,
Dr. Graham held up the character of Thomas, the disciple who must see a thing before he was convinced. He
spoke of him as a man who when he saw, fell down before his Lord crying, “My Lord and my
God.” Last of all he contrasted with these two the timid Joseph of Arimathea, of whom it is said that
he was a disciple of Christ, but secretly, for fear of the Jews. Christ gave this timid, shrinking man a
chance to show his loyalty, and he responded with all his heart.

Sunday was by far the best of the meetings. At 9:45 a.m. Dr. Graham addressed the students at the church.
(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 24, 1915. NO. 23

Baseball Schedule Finally Arranged Team Rounding Into Shape---Elon Game Friday.

Schedule:
March 20—Elon at Davidson.
April 3—Horner at Davidson.
April 5—Wofford at Rock Hill.
April 6—U. of N.C. at Davidson.
April 8—Charlotte at Davidson.
April 10—Richmond College at Davidson.
April 12—Wofford at Spartanburg.
April 13—Furman at Greenville.
April 14—Presbyterian College at Clinton.
April 15-16—U. of S.C. at Columbia.
April 17—Charlotte at Charlotte.
April 21—U. of Ga. at Charlotte.
April 24—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 28—U. of S.C. at Rock Hill.
May 1—Wofford at Davidson.

Owing to the cancellation of three important games in the last few days by one of the most prominent colleges
in North Carolina, the schedule has been late in coming out, but after all it appears that the Varsity has
a hard road before them. An improvement in the schedule is that all small games have been dropped and representative
colleges of Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina have been taken on. Manager Shaw has had a hard time arranging
the games this year, and thanks are due to him for handling the matter as well as he did, even
though he had so many games cancelled by colleges that he had counted on playing. The faculty allows the Varsity
ten full days off the Hill, and every one of them has been taken up. The first game off the
Hill is with Wofford, at Rock Hill, S.C. on April 5; then the University of North Carolina brings its strong
aggregation to the Hill on the 6th. A week's trip through South Carolina starts the 12th, against Wofford, Furman, Presbyterian
College of S.C., and two games with the University of South Carolina.

The diamond prospects of the Varsity this year bid fair, although little has been said regarding it; however, we all
know “Bill” Fetzer is a man of actions and not words; incidentally, he is considered one of the best baseball
coaches in this section of the country, and it can be relied on that something in the form of a
good baseball team will be forthcoming when the season opens next Friday with the worthy bunch from Elon. The baseball
squad has been rapidly rounding into shape during the pre-season weeks, and if the weather keeps up, should be in
good form for its first games. The squad is given a hard workout every afternoon, and generally a three or
four inning contest between the Varsity and Scrubs finishes the afternoon’s work. The pitchers, under the efficient coaching of Coach
Fetzer, are showing good form. Among the most promising of these hurlers are Groom, Lawson, and Hengeveldt. On these three
will probably fall the bulk of Davidson's mound work. They are all hard workers and have improved wonderfully in the
fine points of pitching. With the help of Coach Fetzer in the practice games, and the games with the “All-Stars”
and Huntersville, each one showed that he (Continued on page 4)
