4 INSPIRING SERMONS (Concluded from page 1)

Enthusiasm increased their one talent to ten or made their one talent do the work of ten. How can this
be done? The first essential is the yielding of the will to God's will: giving the life unreservedly to God’s
guidance and control. We live in an era of marvellous material development, especially here in the South. It is a
time when one can accomplish more than at any other period of the world’s history. Greater still is the development
and progress of the spiritual kingdom of God. Far greater is the need of men to lead the forces of
God in the spiritual conquest of the world for Christ. As Dr. Josiah Strong said, applying the words of Napoleon
to his soldiers: "From the pyramid top of privilege and opportunity, upon which God has placed us of this generation,
we look down upon forty centuries. We stretch our hands into the future with power to shape the destinies of
unborn millions.” If that was true a generation ago, how much more true is it today. Young man, first of
all then, yield yourselves to God's guidance and control. Come to Him asking Him, Lord what wilt Thou have me
to do?

A second essential is work—earnest, honest, persistent work. No matter how great your talents, there can be no real success
without work. Old Thomas Carlyle certainly rings true on the gospel of work. It takes men of eagerness and enthusiasm
and hard work to do the best work for the world. There is just one more essential to the successful
life, and that is persistence and determination in spite of all obstacles and discouragements; the spirit that never gives up
or surrenders. There is the story of Mills’ carelessness with Carlyle’s manuscript of the French Revolution, and Carlyle’s never-give-up spirit
in rewriting it, making it his great masterpiece. There are the stories of Sir Walter Scott and Peter Cooper, examples
of pluck and heroism in the face of fearful odds and reverses. The sermon closed with an earnest appeal to
the men of the graduating class to be strong, to quit themselves like men, to dedicate their lives to God,
to put themselves in line with His plans and purposes and to carry to a finish with energy and enthusiasm
the work to which He calls. Success awaits all such laborers. The reward is sure. The plaudit certain: “Well done,
good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.”

THE SERMON BEFORE THE Y. M. C. A.

The sermon before the Y. M. C. A. was preached at 8 o'clock in the evening by Rev. B. F.
Wilson, D.D. (84), of Harrisonburg, Va. His sermon was as unlike the discourse of the morning as possible. It was
epigrammatic, pointed, startling at times in utterance, and altogether interjectional in its casting out in every direction wholesome blocks and
fragmentary pieces of truth. The theme was “The Reinforcement of Life,” and to this end the necessity to incorporate truth,
and for the Christian to be not simply alive to truth, but alive with it. The double text was Rom.
16:19, “I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil,” and Matt. 7:24, “A wise
man, which built his house upon a rock.” Experimental knowledge of good without the contaminating knowledge of evil was the
first thought emphasized. The wise pilot does not seek to know where all the rocks are, but where the channel
is. Man misses seeing what he misses being. Abraham saw the angels from a distance as they approached only because
his character and spiritual vision were what they were. The way we meet the unexpected is the true test of
what we are. The religion of today calls for action, not for a life spent in the cloister as that
of the monks of old. All service, all true work, can be made religious. No selfish life can be a
Christian life. Reinforce your life by ceasing to discuss the religious things that do not count, e.g., Calvinism and Arminianism.
In this world a man may choose and act accordingly, but he cannot choose results. It is impossible for anyone
to play any game without fixed rules, and these rules, when selected, bring fixed results. This is true everywhere in
the world of time and of eternity. Reinforce life with thoughts that are noble and high. Whatever strengthens and makes
life moral is of God. Man works with God. He cannot make the wood, nor the iron, nor the brass,
but using God's creation he can make the organ. Man is free and yet must work with what God has
endowed him. The Golden Rule is true not simply because Jesus uttered the words. He uttered them because they are
true. Reinforce life with humor. This quality brightens, sweetens, softens. Incorporate in life and conduct the truth of the Bible.
By fruits men are known and judged. Fill the life not by emptying out the evil, but by filling with
good. Note the great expulsive power of a great affection and love. Air is driven out of a glass, not
by blowing into it, but by filling it with water.

REUNION OF SOCIETIES (Concluded from page 1)

M. G. Boswell, F. W. Price, G. W. Gignilliat, W. A. Dumas, M. J. Shirley, P. D. Patrick. In the
Philanthropic society there were eight graduates. S. Alexander, of Charlotte, was the valedictorian, and bade farewell for his classmates to
the work and associations of “Old Phi.” T. D. Sparrow delivered the response. Diplomas were awarded to the following: S.
Alexander, J. A. Carriker, W. S. Gilchrist, F. L. Harkey, J. Harper, A. R. Howland, H. B. Overcash, C. H.
Rowan. In both societies the exercises were closed with bright and happy speeches from alumni who were present.

GYMNASIUM EXHIBIT.

At 10 o'clock Monday morning the annual Commencement Gymnasium Exhibit was given in Commencement Hall. The gymnasium team of eight
men, under the captaincy of W. M. Winn, afforded an hour of excellent entertainment, many declaring that it was the
best exhibition given in many years at Davidson. Pyramids, parallel and horizontal bar work, spring board dives and “flips,” and
flying ring stunts were the features. Ed. Murray, captain of last year’s team, was present in uniform and contributed a
large share to the success of the exhibit. Russell Minter made his final appearance as acrobat and clown par excellence
and brought down the house. The others taking part were, J. G. Thacker, W. S. Gilchrist, W. W. Porter, P.
B. Price, R. H. Bennett, E. P. Childs, A. B. Young.

CONCERT.

Before a full hall on Monday afternoon the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club gave a delightful concert of music and
song. Both Orchestra and Glee Club have closed one of the best and most successful years of their existence, and
their Commencement entertainment was the climax of the year. The program opened with an orchestra selection, “Daughter of the Regiment—Overture,”
by Tobani. Others of their selections which were enjoyed during the hour were, “The Aviator” and “Starlight,” by Cruger; “The
Yellow Jacket,” and “Stradella,” by Flotow. The Glee Club sang “The Song of the Pirate,” by Rhys-Herbert, and “Hark, Hark,
the Horn That Wakes the Morn.” T. P. Johnston is leader of the Glee Club, of which there are fifteen
members. The quartet of J. L. Fowle, C. W. Ansley, T. P. Johnston, and D. M. McGeachy, sang “When You
Wore a Tulip and I Wore a Red Rose,” and then after vociferous encoring, “Memphis Blues.” Ansley delighted the audience
with two solos, the second with Orchestra accompaniment. The Orchestra, in addition to the Annual Concert, furnished music at theHere
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

opening and close of each of the Commencement exercises. Twenty prospective Freshmen for next Fall have already sent in their
certificates and have been accepted. Of this number, only one fails to measure up to the required fourteen units for
entrance.

SENIORS HOLD SWAY
(Concluded from page 1)

Fresh-Soph debater’s medals to W. Cumming (Phi.), and J. R. Woods (Eu.); Junior-Senior debater’s medals to J. G. Patton (Eu.),
and Duncan Shaw (Phi.); Essayist’s medals to G. W. Gignilliat, Jr. (Eu.), and U. S. Alexander (Phi.); and the Fiction
medal from both societies to J. B. Arrowood. The exercises were closed by the benediction by Rev. Harding, who took
occasion to compliment highly the practised skill of the contestants in the oratorical contest.

MEETING OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION.
At this meeting at 2:30, in Shearer Hall, Dr. R. H. Lafferty, the President, presided. Mr. Charles L. Grey, of
Davidson, was elected President; Mr. Barley, of Greenwood, S. C., Vice-President, and Dr. W. McConnell, Secretary and Treasurer. The Athletic
Committee is composed of Dr. McKay, of Charlotte; Dr. L. G. Bell, of Greensboro, and Coach W. McKay Fetzer. A
fee of $1 was decided on, the money to be used for arranging entertainment for the Alumni at Commencement. Good
progress was reported in the raising of $25,000 for the new gymnasium. The Association heartily recommended that every member of
the Association subscribe to THE DAVIDSONIAN.

CLASS DAY EXERCISES.
Formal class day exercises are a new thing at Davidson, but the graduating class in inaugurating them Tuesday afternoon made
them one of the most impressive and interesting ceremonies of this Commencement. The class formed in line at 4 o'clock
in front of the Library, where their gift to the College, a pair of light standards, graces the steps, and
marched in a procession led by Riggs McConnell, in cap and gown like the class who had adopted him, to
the south side of Chambers building, where they planted several sprigs of ivy, marching thence to the platform erected between
Elm Row and the Phi. Here the members of the class signed their names in the Class Book, after which
the speakers of the afternoon mounted the platform while the other members of the class arranged themselves in a semicircle
on the grass before them. G. W. Gignilliat, Jr., delivered the salutatory, in which he pictured the future awaiting Davidson
and the class. C. M. Gibbs read the class record, reviewing the college days of the class. The ivy oration
was well delivered by U. S. Alexander. J. W. S. Gilchrist read the class poem, a very original one in
form and content. Mcllwaine in delivering the class oration spoke of the class motto, Non Sibi, and its relation to
the development of the college. F. W. Price in presenting the class gift to the college bid the two lights
“Shine, Shine, Just Where You Are,” and Dr. Martin received the gift for the college with a very fitting and
graceful speech. Norman Johnson, President of the class, then presented the class urging the next class to make its roll
in it as large as possible, to J. P. Williams, President of the Junior class. P. D. Patrick then closed
the exercises with the valedictory. The class then marched in a body, singing “College Ties,” to the umbrella tree, where
in a short meeting they elected their alumni officers: F. W. Price, President; P. D. Patrick, Secretary, and W. A.
McIlwaine, Treasurer. After the class day exercises Mrs. Martin entertained in honor of the visiting mothers and their hostesses.

JUNIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST.
This contest took place in the Commencement Hall at 8:30. Prof. A. Currie presided, and after the invocation by Dr.
W. L. Lingle, L. A. Mullen (Eu.), spoke on “The Demand of the Hour;” A. McDonald (Phi.), on “The Mills
of God;” W. C. Copeland (Phi.) on “The Death Knell of Militarism;” J. G. Patton (Eu.), “The Danger of the
Present Peace Movement;” F. H. Smith (Eu.), “The Spirit of the True Press.”

ALUMNI RECEPTION.
At 10 o'clock, at the Library, the Annual Alumni Reception was held. After the first part of the reception the
guests adjourned for refreshments to the lawn and steps on the west side, which were beautifully lighted.

INTERESTING ITEMS ABOUT CHAMBERS BUILDING
Through a gift by Mr. Maxwell Chambers, of Salisbury, N. C., who died in 1855, it became possible for the
college to erect the building which was named for its donor. The work of construction was started in 1857 and
completed in 1860, although it was used for the Commencement in 1859. The contract for the building was awarded to
Mr. J. N. Scofield, father of Mr. S. C. Scofield, the genial “Colonel,” at a total cost of $25,000. The
original plans called for two cupolas and length enough for two and a half more rooms at each end. But
these were cut off in order to keep the cost within the above limit. This accounts for the half-sized rooms
at the ends, and meant a loss of thirty-six rooms to the building. The stone for the pillars was hauled
from Rocky River, near Concord, and the bricks were made on the lot where the railroad water tank now stands,
near the station. The class of 1869, as Juniors, laid out the walks of the campus. For the great circular
walk each member of the class drew a plan and made calculations. Then grass seed was sown and the student
body joined in planting the trees. Recently the Eastman Kodak Company took a picture of the front of the Chambers
building and made an enlarged copy of it for exhibition at the San Francisco Exposition this year. The various dimensions
of the building are as follows: Length, 207 feet; height (including cupola), 95 feet; height of the columns, 45 feet;
diameter of columns (at base), 6.5 feet; circumference of columns, 21.6 feet; height of wings, 44 feet; length of wings,
107.8 feet; width of main part, 81.8 feet; diameter of cupola, 32 feet. Contained in the building are 72 dormitory
rooms, five class rooms, three physics laboratories, the Commencement hall, and the old museum. The original rafters and beams and
some of the original doors still remain, wooden pegs having been used in joining them instead of nails. The lime
for the mortar was mined out of Little Mountain, across the Catawba, and the planed lumber used was cut in
South Carolina and brought up on wagons from Charlotte.

Y. M. C. A. HOLDS FINAL MEETING
Thursday night, the 20th, the last meeting of the Y. M. C. A. for this collegiate year, Frank Price, the
retiring president, spoke on “Decision.” He applied the duty of decision to everyday life, showing how much greater in every
way the man of decision is than one of constant wavering mind and vacillating will. He urged that this principle
be pressed also in the great as well as small problems. A man’s life work should be decided in the
light of the world’s need and man’s own talents and powers. In closing, he threw out three challenges, the challenge
of the power of youth, the challenge of the one life, the challenge of the one day. These challenges can
only be met by the power of the great Man of Decision and Power, Jesus Christ.

ARRANGEMENTS FOR BLUE RIDGE
W. A. Dumas, chairman of the committee on the Blue Ridge delegation, and W. G. Somerville, the president of the
Association, have left for their homes, but they will keep in touch with all men expecting to attend the student
conference. It is hoped that a winning delegation will be at Blue Ridge this summer.
