The DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., AUGUST 23, 1915.

ATHLETIC NEWS.

Mr. W. McK. Fetzer, our athletic director, with his brother, Mr. Robert A. Fetzer, has been conducting a summer camp
for boys at Camp Sapphire, near Brevard, N. C. He will be in Davidson by the opening to take charge
at once of the football squad and get them ready for the heavy schedule that has been arranged for the
coming season. He will be assisted by Mr. Dewitt Kluttz, widely known to Davidson alumni as one of the best
all-round athletes we have ever turned out. For the last two years, Mr. Kluttz has been assistant coach at the
University of North Carolina, where he has been pursuing the study of medicine. Mr. Kluttz is to be assistant to
Mr. Fetzer for the entire year and look after basketball, track teams, and other forms of athletics. In addition to
his coaching at the University of North Carolina, Mr. Kluttz was for two years a teacher in the Woodberry Forest
School, Virginia, and materially aided in putting out good teams for the well-known preparatory school.

Manager T. D. Sparrow has arranged an unusually attractive football schedule, including games with Washington and Lee, Clemson, Georgia Tech,
University of North Carolina, University of South Carolina, and Wake Forest. Practically all members of last year’s team will return,
and some very promising young athletes are reported to be coming in with the new class.

Mr. W. L. Boggs, who was compelled to drop out of college two years ago, and who has for the
past year been assistant director in the Richmond Y. M. C. A. gymnasium, will return to Davidson this year and
have charge of our gymnasium classes. Mr. Boggs has met with unusual success as a gymnasium director, and we are
quite fortunate to secure his services for our gymnasium work. The gymnasium is being worked over and put in better
shape than ever for the basketball teams and regular gymnasium classes. Plans are being made to lay the foundation for
our new gymnasium next spring.

Among the Davidson alumni who have taken a prominent part in summer baseball, we would mention: E. L. Booe, who
has been manager of the Statesville club during the season; J. C. Cashion, one of the Minneapolis club's pitchers; W.
T. Osteen and Lloyd Christenbury, who have been starring on the Morganton team; and Murphy Currie, who is a strong
member of the pitching staff of the Durham aggregation.

The tennis courts on the college grounds are being leveled up and resurfaced, and new back-stops put up. They will
be open to the use of all the students, and doubtless much pleasure will be derived from this attractive sport
during the open weather of our fall months. As is known to our old students, tennis can be played here
every month in the year.

The golf course is being mowed and put in excellent shape for the opening of college. The handicaps for the
Autumn Tournament will be begun soon after the students return. The putting greens have been sprinkled with oil during the
summer and are in fine shape for playing.

Mr. Lamont Fields, who was successfully operated on for appendicitis at the Charlotte Sanitarium a week ago Sunday, returned to
Davidson on Wednesday.

TO THE DAVIDSON MEN.

The Y. M. C. A. takes this opportunity to welcome to Davidson both the old men and the new, and
to ask the earnest cooperation and hearty support of each man in the work of the year. Too often we
are prone to think of the Y. M. C. A. as an organization which trains the few men on the
cabinet and committees, but this should not be true. A few men are unable to do the work alone, and
we must have the active support of each member to make the Association the mighty force on the campus which
it should be. In the battle on the football field, only eleven men can take part, but in the daily
battle with the Devil here on the campus, each man may play a large part with the help of his
captain, Jesus Christ. During this year, let us hit the line hard and gain ground toward the goal of right
living and true service. We all remember the coach's warning, “Keep your eye on the ball.” May we not lose
sight of the ball by becoming engrossed in the varied activities of student life; but may we ever strive to
make Jesus Christ a more living reality on the campus.

Some of us plan, when we have finished our education, to go as missionaries to the Chinese, but fail to
help the Freshman rooming next door who is sadly in need of encouragement. Others of us expect to be ministers
of the gospel in this country, but do not attempt to reach the man in our class who is without
Christ. Then there are others of us who expect to serve our Master in other professions and in business, but
look on complacently while the souls of men around us are starving. Will we continue in this course? Will a
man who is a Christian see one of his fraternity mates, to whom he is bound by the closest ties,
in need of spiritual help and refuse to give it to him? Let us take as our motto this year
“Win the one next to you.”

Yours in His service,
W. G. SOMERVILLE, President.

TO THE CLASS OF 1919.

To an alumnus who has covered any part of the rather extensive field from which Davidson draws students, one thing
is particularly striking—the intense devotion and loyalty that present students and alumni exhibit for their Alma Mater. While traveling for
the college this summer, I chanced to meet most of the Davidson students and alumni in eastern North Carolina. Wherever
and whenever I met one, whether classmate or college mate, close friend or passing acquaintance, there was always a bond
of sympathy between us as we shook each other’s hand. And what is the cause of such a feeling? It
is not a spirit that is easily found. The cause, first and last, is Davidson itself, with all that it
stands for, its environment, its influences, and its memories. So the men who enter college this fall are coming into
the happiest days of their lives, days...in which friendships are formed which are life-lasting, days in which bonds are made
which bind them to the most loyal alumni in the world. We welcome you most heartily, class of 1919, into
a progressive college, rich in splendid traditions.

J. Edward Johnson.

TO THE NEW MEN

TO THE NEW STUDENTS.

You, who are expecting to enter Davidson College this next month for the beginning of your college course, will be
interested to hear that your class promises to be a large one. We have accepted more new applicants up to
the date of August 10 this year than up to August 30 in 1913 or 1914. Let nothing interfere with
your coming if you have been accepted. The college was never better equipped to serve you, and much has been
done this summer to improve the plant and make it more efficient.

Be sure to come on time. Late entrance badly handicaps a student, and, unless it is necessary, no one should
fail to be here to matriculate on the 31st of August or the 1st of September; better on Tuesday the
31st, as there will be some congestion on Wednesday the 1st. It is well to have a day to look
about you, get your bearings, and become settled. The committees from the student organizations will meet you at the trains
and help you find your quarters. They will direct you to Mr. Jackson, our Business Manager, who will see that
you get your room key. Then you report at the President's office for matriculation. We shall all be glad to
welcome you and have you share with us all the advantages, opportunities, and pleasures that the college offers. Come prepared
to do your best during the entire year and to make the right start to that end, and you will
find that Faculty and old students alike will appreciate your earnestness and honor you for it.

Please understand that I shall always be glad to see you and talk over with you any problems of interest
in your life which you would like me to consider with you. I am entirely at your service. This is
true of each member of the Faculty as well. Hoping and expecting to meet you at the opening, I am,

Sincerely yours,
W. J. Martin.

DR. ARBUCKLE’S RESIDENCE.

The college is just finishing a new residence for Dr. Arbuckle, on Concord Avenue, between Dr. Lingle’s and Mr. Jackson's.
In architectural design, this home is a little different from anything in Davidson. The outside is plastered up to the
second story and then shingled the rest of the way. This, together with the extended eaves and wide brick porch,
makes this from the outside one of the most attractive homes in Davidson. The interior is well arranged with all
conveniences.

OLD MEN RETURNING.

Their friends will be interested to know that the following men who dropped out of their classes a year or
more ago will re-enter Davidson this fall: J. P. McNeil, Jr., I. T. Gillespie, Lex Klutz, L. H. Fikell, Robert
D. Murray, and W. L. Boggs, Jr. A letter from Mr. A. W. White, who has been traveling representative of
the college in western South Carolina, giving his impressions of the outlook for Davidson, states that there will be a
good representation in the new class from South Carolina and that the alumni of the college in the state were
never more loyal in their support of Davidson.

TO THE OLD STUDENTS.

The summer correspondence indicates a good opening of college September 2, insofar as new students are concerned. More applications have
been accepted up to this date, August 10, than by the end of August during the last three years. These
new students are in your territory and some are possibly in your own immediate neighborhood, and I suggest that you
hunt them out and make yourself known to them and assure them of a hearty welcome at Davidson. With the
continued loyal support of the college students and alumni, there is no reason why our college should not be crowded
with the best. To think it will be well filled this Fall provided two things happen:

1st. That you old men return in large numbers as heretofore. I have heard of but few that expect to
drop out, and I hope that a larger proportion than ever will return.

2nd. That applicants for the new class continue to enroll during August as during the same month in previous years,
and that, as heretofore, practically all who have applied and been accepted present themselves for entrance the first of September.
Many of the old men have written me during the Summer about new students, and I have appreciated their valuable
help. Now let us all get to work, meet those who are in our own neighborhood, and tell them about
the college, and see that they feel they will be welcomed. A real effort generally, on the part of the
old students, made at once, will also discover many who have not yet decided where they are going this Fall,
and enlist them for Davidson. I expect the old men to return in large numbers, and to join the officers
and faculty in an earnest attempt to make this the best year of the college. I hope you have had
a pleasant and profitable summer. We will be glad to welcome you back to the campus.

Cordially yours,
W. J. Martin.

BOARDING HOUSES.

Miss Rosa Shoemaker; W. A. Johnson, manager; price, $10.00; capacity, 40.
Mrs. N. L. Barnes; W. Witt, manager; price, $9.50; capacity, 50.
Mrs. C. Campbell; I. A. Mullen, manager; price, $16.00; capacity, 24.
Mrs. J. K. Glasgow; F. J. McIntire, manager; price, $12.00; capacity, 20.
Mrs. Martin H. Gantt; T. R. McNeill, manager; price, $15.00; capacity, 25.
Mrs. M. A. Henderson; T. J. Mitchell, manager; price, $13.50; capacity, 30.
Mrs. A. C. Williamson; J. P. Williams, manager; price, $15.00; capacity, 20.
Mrs. L. R. Brady; W. G. Morrison, manager; price, $12.00; capacity, 40.
Mrs. N. Smith; C. E. Rankin, manager; price, $13.50; capacity, 20.
Mrs. J. A. McMillan; C. L. Walker, manager; price, $14.00; capacity, 30.
Mrs. L. R. Smith; F. H. Smith, manager; price, $15.00; capacity, 20.

Mrs. Robson, Mrs. Vinson, and Mrs. Paisley will open their homes as usual; but as they were out of town
their rates could not be obtained. The Fresh Reception Committee, F. S. Smith, Chairman, will be glad to help you
in any way.
