2 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 27, 1915

Hotel A. J. DUNN
Central Interior
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Decorating

DAMAGE REGULATION.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Since the student body this year has pledged the Damage Fund remaining at the end of the session to the Athletic Association, as much care as possible should be taken in this matter of damaging college property this year, because the cost of repairs must be met by the Athletic Association. The amount of damage up to this time has been comparatively small, and there is no reason why this should not be a record year.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Editorial Board
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor
T. D. Sparrow
R. H. Ratchford
Wm. Hollister
W. L. Law, Jr.

REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings
J. R. Woods
J. B. Woods
H. Camo
A. Dumas
W. Thames
W. E. James

MANAGEMENT
W. H. Neal, Manager
J. C. Paisley, Assistant Manager

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

On February 25, 1908, at a meeting of the Davidson College student body, a group of resolutions were adopted, of which the following are a part:

Resolved: That we, the members of the student body of Davidson College, pledge ourselves to protect college property upon the same honor system as we observe in the conduct in the examination room.

Each student body president at the beginning of his term of office shall appoint a committee to be known as the Damage Committee of the Davidson College Student Body.

A list of all damage and removals unreported by members of the student body to the damage committee shall be posted by the secretary of the committee upon the college bulletin boards (in order to call the attention of the forgetful offenders to such unreported damage). All damage finally unreported shall be paid for out of the regular damage fund held by the college treasurer, every member of the student body sustaining an equal amount of the unreported damage.

It shall be the duty of this committee to summon before it all who fail to comply with any part of these regulations, and if they see fit, to turn his case over to the student body.

Each member of the student body hereby pledges himself upon his honor to report to the committee all damage and removals of college property done by himself either willfully or by accident. Each member also pledges himself upon his honor to report all such damages and removals done by others and not known to be reported by them.

The damage committee is as follows:
R. H. Bennett, 25 Ga.; R. G. Finley, 26 R.; D. L. McKeithen, 26 R.; J. W. Miller, 21 S. W. C.; E. P. Childs, 26 R.

A good, warm, cozy, good-looking, roll collar, athletic sweater. Full stock just received.to make arrangements for them to come to us. This would require an active interest in the matter by some committee, but there is no reason why there should not be such a committee, and through such a committee the financial difficulties of the matter could be handled, and we are inclined to think that these difficulties would not be as great as one might believe at first thought. Then, too, it is true that within a circle of fifty miles from Davidson, can be found a very large number of men prominent in their various professions, and a great many of them are Davidson alumni. It would be a great pleasure to have them as our guests at various times, to bring back to the college that which they have gained by years of experience. There is nothing which so helps a man to decide the work for which he is fitted as the living examples of men in their various professions and lines of work. And if only this end could be gained by these lectures, that some men would find their life work, the lectures would be well worth while. 

There has already been some work accomplished in this direction, by organizations on the Hill, and it is to be hoped that something worth while may come of them, and that soon we may have a well-planned course of lectures extensive enough to be of interest to all.

—NOTICE—
Coach Fetzer wishes to say that any student who is not willing to turn over his Damage Fee to the Athletic Association may see him, and the fee will be refunded to the student.

THE COMMISSARY

QUALITY FIRST
Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.
219 S. Tryon St.
STIEFF
Charlotte, N. C.
Opposite Academy of Music
Established 1842

The Sanitary Barber Shop
Uses Clean Towels, Sharp Razors
BEST ATTENTION

STUDENTS: For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING get quotations from
Brady Printing Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor
I. A. MULLEN, Agent

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.
PUBLIC LECTURES.
A lecturer spends a great deal of time

We will appreciate your business.
SPECIAL invitation to all.

Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina
THOROUGH COURSES
Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN SCHLOSS CLOTHES CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

WHY! Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them Looking New--6 Suits for $1.00. If you are not a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket at once and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.
THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor

Phi Society—October 30, Debate—Affirmative: Berryhill, Coachman, Childs, Campbell, R. G. Finley, Carson. Negative: Mountcastle, Morris, D. I. McKeithen, Mann, Payne. November 1: Declamations and Orations: J. Cur- rie, McClure, Sprunt, Clark, Clary, Morgan, McAlister, D. G. Worth, Sparrow, Shaw, Andrews.

Eu. Society—October 30, Debate—Affirmative: Meck, J. W. McNeill, D. V. Hudson, Hoyt. Negative: Mebane, Norcum, Jenkins, Edgerton. November 1—Declamations: L. H. Patterson, A. Sprunt, Orgain, C. Robson, G. Robson. Orations: Baker, Hobson, Dumas, Bennett.

A VOTE OF THANKS.
The generosity of Mr. Elliott, the grocer, in donating a supply of boxes and waste material for the bonfire on Saturday night was much appreciated by the students. Co-operation in the interests of the student body in this way is certainly not a bad investment.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.
Davidson College Day, which was to be observed on the 28th of this month, will be postponed until November 3, when President Currell, of the University of South Carolina, will speak.