4 Varsity Basket Ball Practice Begins Good Material Among New Men— Fresh Win From Seniors.

Coach Kluttz is now holding basketball practice two or three nights a week to work the kinks out of those
men of last year’s squad who are not out for football and also to look over some of the class
players. Most of the State quintettes have already begun limbering up. Carolina and A. & M. began November 1, and
Trinity, Guilford, and Elon, since they do not have football, practice all Fall. It is hoped that due to this
early practice that about two games can be scheduled before Christmas, Trinity probably being Davidson's opponent in one of these.
With Hengeveld, Childs, Walker, Reese, Laird, Wood, and Carson, of last year’s squad, together with the new material, some of
which is very promising, Davidson should put out a very formidable team. Tom Hill, manager, is working hard on his
schedule, but will not be able to give anything out definitely for a week or so.

CLASS GAME.

Possibly the most exciting and certainly the most evenly contested game of the season was played last Thursday when the
Freshmen defeated the Seniors 21-17. The scores went up evenly till at the end of the second half they were
17-17. Five minutes longer was given to play off the tie when Williamson and Nimocks each shot a goal for
the Freshmen, and Dumas failed to shoot a foul for the Seniors. For the Freshmen, Nimocks and McAskill, and for
the Seniors, Perry and Hoyt, played especially well. The line-up was as follows:

Seniors (17) Position Freshmen (21)
Perry........... Forward........ Nimocks
Hoyt............ Forward.......... Hall
Dumas.......... Center........... Williamson
Patton.......... Guard............ McAskill
Edgerton....... Guard............ Potts

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

Last Thursday night W. A. Dumas spoke to the Y. M. C. A. on “The College Hero.” An outline of
his talk follows: It is good for a man to have heroes and examples and models. There are collegiate heroes
as well as national heroes. All look up to great athletes, but when a student becomes a Junior or a
Senior he realizes that the men working for the college in a literary way, editing or managing the various publications
of the colleges, are heroes as well as the athletes. Another class of heroes are those who stand out from
the crowd and oppose the crowd, if necessary, on a question of right and wrong. Those who do the right
thing and live the right kind of life in the face of ridicule are truly great and are heroes. He
urged a life of positive Christianity that would show its colors without the asking. In closing he pointed out Christ,
the greatest of all heroes, as the true pattern for our lives.

PHIS. ELECT OFFICERS.

At a meeting of the Philanthropic Society on Monday morning, November 15, the following officers were elected for the second
term of the society year: President, H. W. Ormand; vice-president, S. T. Henderson; secretary, J. L. Fowle; first critic, J.
L. Payne; second critic, H. A. Campbell; first supervisor, W. S. Overton; second supervisor, W. C. Cumming.

Mrs. W. G. Vardell has returned, after a two weeks visit in Greenville.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 17, 1915

GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED

We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars and

RED AND BLACK OUTPLAYED (Concluded from page 1)

the opening of the fourth quarter McDonald and Parker were again called on to carry the ball and made a
total of 35 yards, the former going over for the touchdown. Tayloe kicked out to Parker, who fumbled, and so
no goal was kicked. After Gray had kicked to the Carolina 30-yard line and Tayloe had failed to gain, Long
punted 40 yards to Lawson, who was downed by Cowell after 7 yards. On the next play the ball was
fumbled and Tayloe recovered. A pass, Long to Parker, was grounded and Long punted 40 yards to Lawson, who signaled
for a fair catch. Two passes, Lawson to Younger and Walker, were broken up and after Black had gained 9
yards the ball was punted 40 yards to Long, who ran 60 yards through a broken field for a touchdown.
Tandy kicked goal.After an exchange of punts and gains by Laird and Black, the latter went over the line for
Davidson’s only touchdown. A try for goal failed. The score at this point was 41-6, and very few gains were
made after this until the quarter ended with the ball in Carolina’s possession on her own 20-yard line. At the
conclusion of the game, the Davidson students, 200 strong, who had gone up on a special train in the morning,
though of course disheartened by their defeat, marched back to the main section of the city singing and yelling, with
plenty of “pep,” and there dispersed until the time for their special train to start back to the Hill. The
line-up of the teams was as follows:

Carolina. Position. Davidson.
Homewood... ... RE... .... Younger
Boshamer....... RT... .....White
J. Tayloe........RG.........Savad
Tandy. ......... C.......B. White
Cowell. ........ TG... ...Gray
Ramsey.........LT... .. McKeithan
Hogan......... LE... ...R. Walker
Long.......... QB... .....Lawson
D. Tayloe (C) .RHB... ..C. Walker
McDonald. ....LHB... ......Black
Reid... 0... 200. FB..........Laird

Substitutions: Carolina—Blades for McDonald, McDonald for Blades, Parker for Reid, Royall for Homewood, Jones for Boshamer, Blount for McDonald, Grimes
for Cowell, Hines for Tandy, Harrell for Ramsey, Gray for J. Tayloe. Davidson—King for R. Walker, Hill for McKeithan, Fowle
for Hill, Paisley for Savad, Finley for Crouch, Miller for B. White.

Touchdowns: McDonald 4; Homewood, Long, Black.
Score by quarters: Davidson, 0, 0, 0, 6—6; Carolina, 0, 21, 7, 13—41.
Time of quarters, 15 minutes. Referee, Mr. Broughton, A. & M.; Umpire, Mr. Sampson, St. Albans; Head linesman, Mr. Holmes,
Johns Hopkins.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB CONCERT SATURDAY NIGHT

The Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert on the 20th of November, preparatory to their annual Queens College
Concert. The organization is the best that has represented the college in some years, and as they have added much
to the enjoyment of the “Pen” meetings, and also in other ways shown themselves ready to help in the interests
of Davidson, the student body should come out and support them. The concert to be given is an informal affair.
It will be on Saturday night, at 8 o'clock, and the admission will be only 10 cents.

Dr. and Mrs. C. Munroe are visiting their daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty. We appreciate your patronage.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc. The Rexall Store.

COME IN, BOYS. This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds.”
Your trade is appreciated.
L. A. ELLIOT.

EAT AT The Flyless Restaurant. Also Auto Service.

Nothing More Suitable to Take or Send Her for Thanksgiving. Huyler’s Candy.

HOTEL LELAND, - - - STONEWALL —Charlotte, N. C.—
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N. C.
WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N.C.
Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President.

SPALDING QUALITY. No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport
calls for the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game
out-of-doors and indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now here. Our Fall and
Winter Catalogue shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.
A. G. Spalding & Bros. ATLANTA, GA.

The COMMISSARY. Give your Shoe Repair Work to JOHNSON & MEEKS, Davidson College. Representing SHU-FIXERY, CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP.
RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop. Next door to Post Office.
