The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Sophs Win Contest In Class Base Ball
Freshmen Get Second Place---Seniors Third---Juniors Last.

The annual class baseball games were scheduled last week, advantage being taken of the Varsity's trip through South Carolina. The
diamond was in excellent condition and good ball was played. In the first game, Tuesday, the 13th, the Sophs were
victorious over the Juniors by the score of 14-5. Batteries for Sophs were McNair and Thames, while for the Juniors,
Pair and McIntyre did the “honors.”

Wednesday, in the game between Seniors and Fresh, real ball was played. The Fowle Brothers held sway as the Freshmen
battery, while McDonald and Boggs opposed them for the Seniors. The Fresh started off with two runs in the first
inning. “Bill” Bailey crossed the plate for the Seniors. The Freshmen showed the Seniors all through the game that they
were masters of the situation, and their older and more experienced brethren tried in vain to outplay them. Russell Minter
was hit by the pitcher in the ninth and was glad to the college walk. The Fresh claimed the victory
by 9-7.

The third game was played Thursday, the 15th. The Fresh were again victorious, this time over the Juniors by 5-3.
Jamie and Sam were again in evidence, as were Pair and McIntyre. Evans and Sprunt “starred” for the Fresh, while
Hill and Adams played good ball for the Juniors.

In the Friday game, April 16, the Seniors met the Sophs. This was by far the most interesting game. The
Sophomores took the lead at the start. Crawford and Thames, composing their battery, did good work. The Seniors, with McDonald
and Boggs doing the battery work, woke up in the third and began the old-time stuff of “three up, three
down.” The game would have probably been an overwhelming Sophomore victory had not Capt. M. J. Shirley seen fit to
put “Jimmie” Van Devanter and “Coach” Johnson in as pinch hitters, who somewhat rallied the whole team and by their
experienced hitting and fielding caused the final score to read 15-14 in the Sophs’ favor.

This result gave the Sophomores even chances with the Fresh, each team having won two games, while the Juniors and
Seniors had each lost two. Things certainly evened up and more “pep” than usual was exhibited at the Saturday game,
which resulted in a Soph victory 7-4. B. N. White started things off for his team, followed by Thames and
McNair’s hits. Jamie and Sam again opposed the Soph battery and did splendid work, but were unable to take the
advantage from the Sophs.

The deciding game between Juniors and Seniors was played off Monday, the 19th, and resulted in a Senior victory 13-5.
The game was not as fast as some others, probably owing to the morning heat. “Bill” Copeland pitched for the
Juniors as against “Callie” McDonald, while Boggs and McIntyre did the receiving.

The standing is as follows:
WON LOST PCT
Sophs 3 0 1000
Fresh 2 1 667
Seniors 1 2 333
Juniors 0 3 000

At the Y. M. C. A. meeting which will be held on Friday night this week instead of Thursday, Mr.
Crane (’07) will deliver an address.

Hear “Billy”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 21,

Local Happenings During the Week
Lyceum Attraction Is Greatly Enjoyed
Doings of the Town People and Events of Interest.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with Mrs. Worth on Friday. Mrs. Lingle will present an interesting paper at this
meeting.

The Concord Presbyterial will meet in Mooresville from the 21st of April to the 23rd. A number of ladies of
Davidson will attend.

Mr. and Mrs. Seabrook and daughter, of Edisto Island, S. C., are visiting at the home of Dr. Richards.

Mrs. Lingle will speak at a meeting of the Charlotte Chapter of the North Carolina Equal Suffrage League next Friday.
Her subject is, “Woman's Place in the Home.”

Mr. Wilson, of Mooresville, and Mr. P. Fall, of Statesville, were here last Friday to confer with Dr. Richard and
Dr. Shearer about the presidency of College at Statesville.

Mrs. Lingle and Miss Maude Vinson attended a meeting last Wednesday of the Southern Association Alumnae in Charlotte.

Miss Sue Hall, of Wilmington, spent the weekend with Mrs. Curtis.

Captain Overton and family drove over from Salisbury Saturday and spent the day with Mrs. Whery and other relatives.

Mrs. C. A. Meroe is here on a visit to her daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

The Montreat Association has decided to open a summer school this next summer. Dr. T. W. Lingle has been chosen
director. The term will be for six weeks. Each subject studied will cover the work of one unit at college.
All subjects will be taught except the physical sciences. There will also be popular courses in literature and history of
art, of cultural value for ladies and gentlemen desiring more advanced work. The Montreat Association is going to conduct the
summer school after the manner of the Chautauqua School in New York.

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF HOLDS BANQUET

Last Friday night nineteen men, composing the old and new Davidsonian staffs, and including the reporters, held a banquet at
Mrs. Henderson's, which was highly enjoyed by all. Between the courses there were speeches, purporting to be witty, by the
various members. But later in the evening the conversation drifted into more serious topics and plans for The Davidsonian for
the following year were discussed. The retiring members of the old staff told where they had succeeded and where they
had failed, and gave many pieces of sound advice, and all offered new suggestions and laid new plans for the
growth and betterment of the future Davidsonian.

YOUNG-BISHOP.

Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Young, of Cleveland, O., announce theMarriage of their daughter, Gladys, to Mr. Everett L. Bishop,
of Savannah, Ga., Monday, April fifth, one thousand nine hundred and fifteen, Washington, D.C.

Entertainment. The last Lyceum attraction of the season was given last Tuesday night, when Mrs. William Calvin Chilton, of the
Alkahest Lyceum System, rendered a most delightful entertainment here. Mrs. Chilton is a monodramist of no small reputation, as she
has traveled over the whole United States. Here she rendered “Polly of the Circus,” a monodramatic recital that has become
widely popular, a story of pathos and humor delightfully combined. The play, which was given in four acts, began at
8 o'clock, with an unusually full house. Mrs. Chilton has a very pleasing delivery, and her impersonations are remarkable. No
small amount of laughter was provoked when she imitated perfectly an old negro “mammy” laughing and talking. Such varied and
perfect impersonations betrayed great talent. The managers report that the interest shown at the last attractions has made the Lyceum
Course quite a success this year.

“BILLY” SAYAD LECTURES ON THURSDAY NIGHT
The illustrated lecture on Persia to be given Thursday night in the chapel by Win. Y. Sayad is being widely
commented upon, and a large crowd seems assured. “Billy” has secured about seventy-five slides illustrative of the mission work in
his homeland and has prepared an interesting talk on the conditions there. If this lecture proves a success, he hopes
to make a tour of the Southern States during the vacation months, delivering a series of lectures on similar subjects.

INTERESTING PLAY TO BE GIVEN SATURDAY NIGHT
Saturday night at 8 o'clock there will be a play by local talent given in Shearer Hall. This play, “A
College Town,” is a comedy in three acts. There are over fifty persons taking part, of whom ten are college
students, and the others are from the town. Under the able management of Miss Hood, the participants have been practicing
for some time and all who attend may be assured of being well entertained. The proceeds will go to the
village school.

VOLUNTEERS GIVE A SERIES OF ADDRESSES
The Student Volunteer Band of Davidson asked permission of quite a few of the ministers of Concord Presbytery to give
missionary talks in their churches, which was readily granted by a number of them. Twelve volunteers went out in pairs
to six churches. Two spoke at Statesville at the morning service, Sunday, and at Barium Springs in the evening. Four
took charge of the services at the First and Second churches at Mooresville in the evening. Rocky River invited two
and Kannapolis two more. The talks were mostly concerning the “Mission Field From a Student Volunteer's Point of View,” although
some who were born on the foreign field spoke of the work with which they were most familiar. Much interest
was manifested in these talks and it is anticipated that future work will be done along this line.

Sayad Thursday Night, Shearer Hall | 1915. NO. 27

Varsity Breaks Even On Southern Trip
Wins Second Game From University of South Carolina.

The Furman Game. Due to the fact that luck broke against the Red and Black and that the horseshoe appeared
to be with Furman, the latter were victorious in a fast and exciting game played in Greenville on April 2.
The mighty hitting Presbyterian team failed to crack out the long hits as usual though they drove some long ones
to the outfielders who played forty yards deeper than usual and it was well that they did for on several
occasions the ball went to them and they had but little playing to do to get beneath them. Furman probably
played her best game of the season thus far, but even then they were outclassed by Davidson and only luck
won for them. For Davidson, Somerville did the star stick work, getting an even four singles out of four trips
to the plate. Lockman was the star batter for Furman, getting three hits out of three chances, one for three
bags, one for a couple of sacks, and the last for a single. Davidson was well represented since there are
a good many alumni in Greenville, and the Furman boys had all their backers out, so the entire time was
amply filled with racket. Groome pitched an excellent game, allowing the Baptists only seven hits and these were well scattered.

Score by innings:
Davidson 000 010 000
Furman 010 020 000

Summary: Two base hits, Lockman; three base hit, Lockman; sacrifice hits, Stough, Austin; base on balls, off Groome 4, off
Wharton 4; struck out, by Groome 5, by Wharton 7; wild pitch, Wharton; hit by pitched ball, Alford; stolen bases,
Christenbury, Somerville, Austin; double plays, Somerville to Christenbury to Stough, Austin to Stough, Wharton to Nelson to Hughes; passed ball,
Alford; left on bases, Davidson 5, Furman 3; first base on errors, Davidson 3; time, 2 hours; umpire, Stouch; scorer,
Law.

Victory at Clinton. On the day after the frolic with the Baptists, the Red and Black met the Presbyterian College
of South Carolina on their home ground at Clinton and had little trouble in defeating them, the score being 16
to 0. The entire team from Davidson seemed possessed with an unusual amount of pep and consequently the P. C.
team was held at their mercy. Somerville was again the star with the willow. He encountered the local twirler six
times and carried off five hits, one of them being a drive for four bases, scoring two men ahead of
him.

(Continued on page 4)

Events of the Week.
Wednesday, 21—Univ. of Ga. in Charlotte.
Thursday, Bill Sayad’s Lecture.
Friday, 23—Y. M. C. A. Meeting.
Saturday, 24—Wake Forest at Davidson.
Monday, 26—Junior-Senior Debate, Phi Society Elections, Field Day.
Wednesday, 28—Univ. of S. C. at Rock Hill.
