DEATH OF MRS. WATTS.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

It is with deep sorrow that all the friends of the college have learned of the death of Mrs. Geo. W. Watts, of Durham, N. C. She was the wife of the Vice-President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, and the college has no warmer friend than he has shown himself to be.

Of Mrs. Watts, the News writes as follows: "The death of Mrs. Watts will be heard with sorrow throughout the State. She was a woman of exceptionally fine character; a woman of high refinement, broad culture, and broader charity; a woman whose mission was to 'Help Somebody Today' and to help them in the sweetest, kindest, and most generous way."

It will be remembered that Mr. Watts has given to Davidson the Watts Dormitory, and he also made the largest single gift toward the building of the Martin Chemical Laboratory. Dr. Martin will attend the funeral of Mrs. Watts in Durham today.

DR. WUNDER TO LEAVE.

Prof. Charles N. Wunder, who has been Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics for the past two years, leaves Davidson at the end of the present session. Professor Wunder has endeared himself to all by his gentlemanly qualities and interest in student activities. He has served the college well, and his host of friends here wish him every success in his future work.

Dr. Wunder came only for two years. He could not accept a permanent position on account of the fact that he was not a Presbyterian. Davidson is grateful to the Methodists for lending him for this short period.

Mr. W. W. Wood, B.A., C.E., of Charlottesville, Va., a graduate of the University of Virginia of three years’ standing, comes to Davidson next Fall to fill the place left vacant by Professor Wunder. Mr. Wood is spoken of in high terms by the authorities of the University of Virginia. He is twenty-seven years of age and unmarried. He has been in the field for the past three years as a civil engineer, and is now with the DuPont Powder Co., at Chase City, Va., where large works are being erected.

THE STAFF
J. P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
T. J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor
T. D. Sparrow
R. H. Ratchford Business Manager
J. H. Carson Reporters
William Hollister
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal
E. H. Hamilton
J. A. Thames
Latta Law

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

OUR GUESTS.

With a talk straight from the shoulder, Coach Fetzer brought clearly before us last week our duty in the way of the treatment of the visiting teams. At the same time, he spoke a word as to the way in which we should regard athletics—not allowing our desire for victory to overcome the real end of true sport.

It is only a team which represents a college, which is able to fully understand the variety of treatment which is offered by the different colleges. They carry away with them a distinct impression of the character of the students, from the spirit in which they are received. Therefore, for purely selfish reasons, if we have no other, we should accord them the best treatment possible. But, when we consider that far more important fact, that they come to us as our guests, and as such, should be received with the utmost cordiality, we need dwell no longer upon this point. We then begin to realize the full force of the remarks made by Coach Fetzer. We will make no mistake in following him in this matter, as in other things which he may advocate.

MR. CRANE ADDRESSES THE Y. M. C. A.

At the Y. M. C. A. meeting last week, which was held Friday night instead of Thursday, the students enjoyed a...

EXAM. SCHEDULE.

Tuesday, May 4—Senior Philosophy.
Wednesday, May 5—Senior Greek, Senior German, Senior Spanish.
Thursday, May 6—Senior Bible.
Friday, May 7—Senior French, Senior Mathematics, Senior Pol. Science.
Saturday, May 8—Senior English.
Monday, May 10—Suspended recitations in all classes.de-| Tuesday. M Fresh. Bible: delightful talk on Mission Work in Africa by Rev. C. L. Crane. Mr. Crane, who is here on a furlough, is an alumnus of Davidson, having graduated in '07. After spending his time at Union Seminary, he went directly to Africa. He showed the method of instructing the African, specimens of their work, such as copying and sketching, and exhibited curios to some of the students at Dr. Arbuckle’s after the meeting. He chose as his text the last few verses of the last chapter of Matthew. He showed the difficulties under which the missionaries were placed owing to Roman Catholic influence.

DR. AND MRS. MARTIN ATTEND INAUGURATION

Tuesday and Wednesday of last week Dr. and Mrs. Martin spent at Chapel Hill attending the inauguration of President Graham as President of the University. There were 1,200 visitors attending the exercises. One of the features of the occasion was the inaugural procession, composed of the leading educators of North Carolina and other States. Dr. Martin, as representative of the other colleges of the State, delivered an address at the inauguration. Dr. Graham succeeds Dr. Venable as president of this well-known institution. Dr. Sentelle was off the Hill early in the week.

The DAVIDSONIAN. April 28, 1915

WANT ADS.

EU SOCIETY WINS CUP.

Last Monday evening, in Shearer Hall, the debaters representing the Eumenean Society and the Philanthropic Society met in an inter-society debate. By a unanimous vote, the judges decided in favor of the affirmative as defended by the representatives of the Eumenean Society. Those who argued the affirmative from the Eumenean were R. Perry, N. Johnson, and J. G. Patton; while those who upheld the negative were H. W. Ormand, A. R. Howland, and D. Shaw, of the Philanthropic Society. The medals for the best debate in the two societies were awarded to J. G. Patton and D. Shaw. Those who kindly consented to serve as judges were Messrs. Marshall, Millsap, and Stancil, from Charlotte. The debate as a whole was one of the best that has been heard here for some time. Members of each society sat together and as each speaker took his seat, yells were given him.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N.C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland, 26 R.

WANTED—To exchange small No. 1 Refrigerator for a good Ice Box. R. F. Andrews.

RATES: One time, 5c a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N.C.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

Prof. J. L. Douglas visited friends in Charlotte the first of this week.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for STRENGTH, SECURITY, SERVICE.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S.C.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly
Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

HUNGRY?--- Remember
We always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits, and Candy
Always Fresh, Always the best
Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED
L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.