4 ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB HAVE SPLENDID TRIP.

Saturday night, the 27th, the Orchestra and Glee Club returned from their annual tour. They reported a fine trip and good audiences at most points. The men who took the trip were P. C. Harper, W. A. McIlwaine, T. Johnston, C. B. Bailey, J. E. Faw, W. G. Morrison, J. B. Payne, F. Baker, W. H. Neal, C. W. Ansley, D. M. McGeachy, E. P. Childs, J. B. Faison, J. L. Fowle, and L. M. Thomas.

Monday night, the 22nd, they gave a concert at Winthrop, which met with quite an ovation from the audience, some even going so far as to say that it was the best thing that had been there during the year. The audience was rather small, due in part to the absence of many of the college girls for the holidays.

Tuesday night a concert was given at Greenville Woman's College to a small audience. The rain was the only thing that kept it from being a great deal larger, for those Greenville alumni certainly know how to boost anything from Davidson, and they were working for the Glee Club. It would be hard to find a man who would work harder for anything than Fred W. Graham, chairman of the publicity committee of the Greenville Alumni Association, did to advertise the concert and to have the members of the Glee Club entertained. If the Greenville Association is a sample of Davidson Alumni Associations all over the South, Davidson may truly boast of having the most loyal alumni in the world.

Tuesday night the musical men basked in the smiles of the fair damsels of Brenau College, and responded with encores to their applause and the cheers of the Riverside Military Academy Cadets. And for an hour or so after the concert, as at Greenville and Winthrop, they put in their time in conversation and repartee with their fair hostesses.

The next morning, after a narrow escape (for particulars ask Jamie Fowle and Coach Johnston), they boarded the train for Toccoa, where “Puss” Graves had things in readiness for another concert that night. The afternoon was spent in joy riding about the country and in getting extra shines (someone had to get out and push every mile or so); then came supper, as it did everywhere. The only trouble with these tantalizing suppers was, they say, that they were afraid to eat them for fear of spoiling their melodious voices. The concert was a grand success, and the reception at the Graves home after it, too. Ask Lavens Thomas about his ancestry. The farewell the next morning was touching, but the boys finally tore themselves loose and boarded No. 12 for Easley.

When they reached Easley there was wailing on the part of some, for they had spent their two-bits for dinner at Central, and here their hostesses had provided bountifully for the inner man again, and they were already full. “Ham” Hamilton, former trombonist in the Orchestra, played in the concert that night. A special train from Pickens was made up for the occasion. During the concert, it was announced by Manager McIlwaine that in response to a special request the Orchestra would sing again; this was hastily corrected to the Glee Club, and then the Quartet marched out and sang. A delightful reception was given after the concert by Miss Hagood and Miss Smith.

The next afternoon found most of the members of the concert party on No. 12 bound for Davidson. The customary initiatory rites for the new members were carried out in the private car specially provided by the Southern Railway for the Glee Club. As the train reached Charlotte, Conductor Jim Rowland came in and told the Glee Club that in all of the thirty years which he had spent as a conductor, he had never seen such a gentlemanly crowd of young men, and complimented the Glee Club upon their behavior. He repeated this statement to his brother Captain Tom Rowland, known to all Davidson men, who again detailed it to the Glee Club on the Charlotte-Davidson special.

On the whole, this was one of the best trips ever taken by the Orchestra and Glee Club, and the reputation of Davidson has been strengthened by it. All who took the trip were very much delighted with the hospitality shown them in each place.

GYM TEAM EXHIBIT SATURDAY AFTERNOON

The Gym Team has always been a feature at Davidson, and in the past, she has had not a few teams of which she could proudly boast. The Gym Team this year promises to develop into a very good one. The team is composed of ten men, five of whom are new men. The old men are: Gilchrist ('15), McKeithan ('17), Price ('17), Thacker ('15), and Wine ('15); and the new men are: Bennett ('16), Hawkins ('18), Jones, J. K. ('17), Porter ('17), and Young ('17). The new men are showing daily improvement and will make good gymnasts.Gym Team will give an exhibition Saturday at 6 p.m., in Shearer Hall. This is always a very enjoyable feature of Junior Speaking. The following program will probably be given: Semi-circle Pyramid, Horse, Elephant Parallels, Pyramids, Tumbling, Diving, Spring-board, Squash Pyramid. Despite the fact that the team is greatly handicapped by poor apparatus, or the utter lack of apparatus, all may be sure that it will do its best to give a good exhibition and repay the audience for attending. The team is planning to take a trip to Greenville, S.C., in the near future. It will give an exhibit there and possibly in some other places along the way. But no definite plans have been made.

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS DALLAS CONVENTION

Immediately following the adjournment of the Laymen’s Convention at Charlotte, President Martin left for Dallas, Tex., to be present and to take part in the program of the Laymen’s Convention for the western part of the Southern General Assembly which convened in that city on February 23 for a three days session. On Sunday, February 21, he occupied the pulpit of the First Presbyterian church of Dallas. Dr. Martin's message to the Dallas Convention was “Our Increased Responsibility,” the subject which he so forcibly presented at the Charlotte Convention. The latter part of last week and the early part of this week he spent in New Orleans, meeting the Davidson alumni of that city. He will return home the latter part of this week. According to newspaper accounts, the Dallas Convention was as momentous and as inspiring as the Charlotte Convention. The meetings were held in the First Presbyterian church, of which Rev. W. M. Anderson, D.D., is pastor, and which will seat about 3,000 people. Approximately 1,000 delegates were enrolled on the first day. Such leaders as Dobyns, Innes, Ellis, Shane, and White took part in the program.

MISSION STUDY NINETY PER CENT.

The mission study classes are running fine work. The average attendance of all classes so far has been about 90 per cent. The effect of the Laymen’s Missionary Convention, in Charlotte, has given a new spirit and stimulus to the study of missions, and the Davidson men are realizing now, more than ever, the supreme importance of missions in the Christian life.

NEW BUSINESS MANAGER ELECTED

On account of the resignation of W. Somerville from the position of Assistant Business Manager on The Davidsonian Staff, at a recent meeting of the Staff, Messrs. L. G. Edgerton and J. H. Carson were elected to serve as assistants, it being deemed necessary that two men be appointed to these places because of the amount of work required.

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mathew Pressing Club
Alexander & Mayberry, Props.

Visit the New Barber Shop
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor

After all, there's nothing quite so acceptable as THE QUEEN OF SWEETS. NUNNALLY'S CHOCOLATES are the purest, sweetest, best that ever carried a message of friendship to "her"—dainty tokens of love and esteem that add so much to "her" Christmas pleasures. Nunnally's would look fine even in a paper bag—but, put up, as they are, in exquisite holiday boxes, gayly bedecked with ribbons, they are the most bewitching sight that ever met milady's eyes. So, no matter what else you may give "her," be SURE that a box of Nunnally's goes with it! Put up in 1, 2, 3, and 5-pound boxes. Tremendous Satisfaction.

Jetton Drug Co.
Prescriptionists

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

When in Charlotte, it’s New Hotel Central UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive improvements.

Headquarters for Drinks, Cigars, Candy, and Toilet Preparations
Prescription Work A Specialty
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

Give us your LAUNDRY WORK and we will give you the best that Virginia has to offer.
BEALL & FRAZER
Representing Danville Steam Laundry

EXPERIENCE TEACHES
That's why you should go to Spalding's when you want equipment for your favorite Summer sport. Equipment that’s just a little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.

Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field
Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Drugs, Drinks, Cigars, and Toilet Preparations
The Davidson Drug Company