The DAVIDSONIAN VOL. 2. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 28, 1915. NO. 28

Championship in Track Events Won By Seniors
Johnson, for the Juniors, Sets New Record for the Mile.

In the annual Inter-class Field Day events, which were held on Monday, the Seniors were the easy champions, winning a
total of 48 points. The Freshmen won second place with 26 points; the Juniors third with 19 points, and the
Sophs last with 6 points. The feature of the meet was the running of the mile race by W. A.
Johnson, of the Junior class, who broke the Davidson record by 1:3-5 seconds. This meet served a twofold purpose. Not
only did it determine the class championship, but it also served as a preliminary contest in which those who shall
represent Davidson in the meet with South Carolina were selected. Those who won first places in the various events will
constitute the Varsity track team. Unless something unforeseen takes place, the first meet with the University of South Carolina will
be held in Columbia on next Saturday, May 1, and the second at Davidson on Saturday, May 8. Gilchrist has
been elected captain and Norman Johnson manager of the team.

The various events, the winners of first, second, and third places, and the highest records are given below. First place
in each of the events counts 5 points, second place 3 points, and third place 1 point.

100 Yard Dash — 1st, Gilchrist (Sen.), 10 1-5 seconds; 2nd, Morris (Jun.); 3rd, Mattison (Soph.).
Running High Jump — 1st, Norman Johnson (Sen.), 5 feet 8 inches; 2nd, Anderson (Sen.); 3rd, Gilchrist (Sen.).
440 Yard Dash — 1st, Crouch (Fresh.), 56 2-5 seconds; 2nd, Mattison (Soph.); 3rd, Smith, D. P. (Fresh.).
220 Yard Hurdle — 1st, Gilchrist (Sen.), 29 3-8 seconds; 2nd, Johnson, N. (Sen.); 3rd, Keesler, S. R. (Soph.).
Hammer Throw — 1st, Anderson (Sen.), 80 feet 3 inches; 2nd, Van Devanter (Sen.); 3rd, Whitesides (Fresh.).
Mile Race — 1st, Johnson W. A. (Jun.), 4 minutes, 57 2-5 seconds (a new record); 2nd, Finley (Fresh.); 3rd,
Hunter (Fresh.).
220 Yard Dash — 1st, Gilchrist (Sen.), 24 2-5 seconds; 2nd, Morrison (Jun.); 3rd, McNeill (Fresh.).
Pole Vault — 1st, Perry (Jun.), 10 feet; 2nd, Lawson (Fresh.); 3rd, Boggs (Fresh.).
Shot Put — 1st, Van Devanter (Sen.), 39 feet 2 inches; 2nd, Anderson (Sen.); 3rd, Whitesides (Fresh.).
120 Yard Hurdle — 1st, Johnson, N. (Sen.), 19 4-5 seconds; 2nd, Worth (Fresh.); 3rd, Anderson (Sen.).
One-half Mile — 1st, Crouch (Fresh.), 2 minutes 13 3-5 seconds; 2nd, Johnson, W. A. (Jun.); 3rd, Clark (Fresh.).
Broad Jump — 1st, Gilchrist (Sen.), 17 feet 8 inches; 2nd, Hampton (Soph.); 3rd, Lawson (Fresh.).

Judges — T. G. Patton, W. L. Law, and F. H. Smith.
Scorekeepers — Halliburton and Paisley.

At a recent meeting of the Eu. Society, P. B. Price, the recently elected Treasurer for next year, handed in
his resignation of the office. After the resignation was accepted, the election of a new treasurer was held, resulting in
the selection of B. F. Hagood, who will serve in that capacity for the coming year.

Play By Local Talent Is Decided Success
“A College Town” Enjoyed by Large and Appreciative Audience.

With comic situations and dramatic moments following in rapid succession, and with a thread of charming romance running through the
whole, “A College Town,” presented by local talent, completely captivated the large audience which filled Shearer Hall last Saturday night.
L. A. Mullen, as Leviticus, the servant of the college boys, and R. C. Jones, as Professor Popp, an antiquated,
henpecked professor of Bexley College, were the male stars of the evening; while Miss Irene Foreman, as the diligent and
exacting wife of Professor Popp, and Miss Caroline Hood, as the bewitching Miss Charming, took the leading female roles. The
scene is laid in a college town just before Bexley’s annual Thanksgiving game. Jim Cavendish, football star, society leader, and
most beguiling flirt in college, finds himself confronted with expulsion for the misdeeds of an evening’s hilarious intoxication. To prove
an alibi he claims to have been with his Aunt Jane, a wealthy relative from Wall Street. In the meantime
he meets Miss Charming, a fascinating young belle from Dixie, and at once falls in love with her. But to
save him from the threatened expulsion, friends undertake to impersonate Miss Cavendish, and Jim's ingenuity is taxed to explain the
presence of three aunts instead of one. He triumphs, however, with a ready flow of names; but later announces that
the other two have returned home, leaving only the wealthy Aunt Jane. Mrs. Popp entertains in her honor, and during
the evening Major Kilpepper, brother of Mrs. Popp, proposes to the supposed Aunt, hoping thus to secure his endowment in
a chair of military science. Also during the evening the real Miss Cavendish arrives, to the confusion of Jim and
the imposter, who is Jim's friend, Tad Cheseldine. Major Kilpepper is furious when he learns of the deception, but he
is soon quieted by Tad, who threatens to run the story of his proposal in the college comic paper. Peace
having been thus established, all turn out the following day for the game. Major Kilpepper is closely attentive to Aunt
Jane, while Jim also hopes for success elsewhere than on the football field. After an exciting game, Bexley comes off
victorious, with Jim the hero of the day. The Major and Aunt Jane follow happily along with the departing crowd,
but the blundering Leviticus chances upon Jim and Miss Charming lingering behind, and in his...

(Continued on page 4)

CAMPFIRE GIRLS TO GIVE ENTERTAINMENT

Saturday night, May 1, at 8 p.m., in Shearer Hall, the Campfire Girls will give an entertainment, under the management
of Miss Irene Foreman. The young ladies taking part are as follows: Misses Elizabeth Grey, Marie Thompson, Dorothy Finlayson, Sarah
Lingle, Eloise Martin, Willie Campbell, Willie Henderson. Miss Mary Parkes Grey will take part in the folk dances. A genuine
Maypole dance will be given, and this is said to be quite an important feature of the entertainment. Beautiful costumes
have been secured for the motion songs and campfire ballads. Tickets may be obtained from any of the above-mentioned young
ladies.

Series of Lectures By Dr. Van Noppen

The Georgia Defeated By Redand Black Contributions of Red Writers to/Dunn Unable to Hold Presbyte- the World's Literature Outlined. |
rians—Hengeveld Hitting Star. Dr. L. C. Van Noppen, Queen Wilhelmina lecturer at Columbia University, lectured here four times last week.
His paper Monday night was a general discussion of the literature of Holland, especially during the Renaissance period. On Tuesday,
Dr. Van Noppen gave an interesting lecture to the English classes of the college, Dr. Fulton having dispensed with regular
recitations for the purpose. At this time Dr. Van Noppen discussed the relations between Milton and the Dutch poet Vondel.
He argued in quite a convincing manner that Milton's masterpiece, “Paradise Lost,” had received aid in general plot and language
from Vondel. In the third lecture, delivered Tuesday afternoon, the life and work of Vondel was discussed. Vondel’s introduction of
the modern principle of free will into the old Greek drama with its idea of an overruling destiny was shown.
Vondel was pictured as a satirist and his true field of work was given as the sublime. He also sang
of noble deeds and of ordinary things. The last lecture of the series was delivered Tuesday evening, devoted mainly to
a discussion of Van Eden, a modern Dutch poet, and his work. It was shown that the old school of
writers had found the beautiful in the true, whereas Van Eden and his followers found the true in the beautiful.
Immediately after the last address Dr. Van Noppen was given an informal reception by the Blue Pencil Club in the
Pi Kappa Phi hall, punch and cakes being served.

INTERESTING LECTURE BY W. Y. SAYAD

An interesting and instructive illustrated lecture on Persia was given last Thursday night by William Y. Sayad, one of the
students. Being a native of Persia, he spoke with authority and gave first-hand information, which added greatly to the interest
and benefit of the lecture. A large and appreciative audience was present. Sayad first gave a brief sketch of the
history of his country as an introduction, and then some important information concerning the geographical features of Persia. A number
of fine views were then shown of the principal Persian cities, followed by an intensely interesting account of the customs
of the natives and of the Mohammedans. The different religions—Mohammedanism, Zoroastrianism, and Devil Worship, were touched upon and their relative
importance shown. The latter part of the lecture was taken up entirely with the story of Christian missions in Persia,
their great work, and the effects upon the people of that land; a description of the missionary educational work was
given of different schools and colleges. In concluding, Sayad spoke of the great demand for strong missionary leaders in Persia.
The natives were competent in propagating and extending the work, but they needed to be led and guided by wise
and able Christian leaders from our Christian land. The appeal for these leaders was forceful and strong, showing the earnestness
of the speaker. The lecture was indeed a splendid one, enjoyed by all present.

With a crippled line-up and dark prospects for winning the game with the University of Georgia, the Red and Black
nine sprung a surprise on the Crackers and defeated them by the overwhelming score of 9 to 4, last Thursday,
April 21, on Wearn Field, in Charlotte. The game belonged to the Presbyterians from the beginning. Christenbury, the lead-off man,
singled over the keystone sack in the initial inning, was forced to second when Wood walked, and scored on Hengeveld’s
single. Wood was forced out at second. Hengeveld registered the second run of the inning on Dunn's error of an
infield hit.

The Crackers scored their first in the third. Hitchcock drew a free pass to first, was sacrificed around to third
and scored on a wild throw. Davidson came back in their half of the same inning and counted two more.
Alford singled and was safe at third on Holden's error of Hengeveld's roller; both tallied when Groome singled. Georgia counted
one in the fourth and another in the fifth. These came as a result of two errors, a wild throw
and a hit. The Red and Black registered two in the fourth, one in the fifth, and two more in
the seventh. All of these were due to hitting with men on bases. Lawson twirled a beautiful game for the
Presbyterians. He allowed the Crackers only three hits, and but one of these was what one might call a clean
single. He was effective at all stages of the game and especially with men on bases. Five men hit line
drives to Alford before the mighty breaking curves of his. He was also tolerably tight with free passes to the
initial sack, since only two Crackers had this honor placed upon them. Dunn started on the rubber for the University,
but was unable to hold the Davidson sluggers down. They found him for thirteen safeties in seven innings, and all
came when needed, with men on bases. McWhorter, a brother to the famous Bob McWhorter, relieved him in the eighth,
and he held the hitters hitless for the one inning that he delivered the horsehide. Hengeveld was the star with
the stick for the day. He journeyed to the plate four times and secured three singles. Score by innings:

Davidson 202 710 2—9
University of Ga. 001 110 010—4

Summary: Two-base hit, Groome; base on balls, off Lawson 2, off Dunn 1; struck out, by Lawson 5, by Dunn
3, by McWhorter 2; wild pitches, Dunn; hit (Continued on page 4)

CALENDAR OF EVENTS

Wednesday, April 28—S. C. at Rock Hill.
Thursday, April 29—Y. M. C. A., Blue Ridge Slides.
Saturday, May 1—Wofford on the Hill. Entertainment by Campfire Girls. Track Meet with S. C. at Columbia.
Monday, May 2—Election of Student Council Members from Junior Class.
Tuesday, May 4—Senior Exams Begin.

See the Campfire Girls, Shearer Hall, Saturday Night.
