The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
The DAVIDSONIAN, May 19, 1915

FACULTY NOTES.
Dr. M. L. F. Sentelle will be in Greenville, Tenn., this summer.
Dr. J. L. Douglas will make Davidson his headquarters, but perhaps will make several trips away.

T. P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
I. J. Mitchell... ... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
R. H. Ratchford

BUSINESS MANAGER
J. H. Carson

REPORTERS
William Hollister
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal
I. H. Hamilton
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Pharr

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.
We are greatly indebted to Frank W. Price, former Editor-in-chief, for his services this week in taking charge of this,
the last regular issue of the paper before Commencement. He will also have charge of the Commencement issue, which will
be mailed on Friday, May 28.

DR. CALDWELL FILLS PULPIT.
On last Sunday, Dr. E. C. Caldwell, who is to take the chair recently vacated by the late Dr. English,
at Union Seminary, spoke at both morning and evening church services. In the morning he spoke on the “Fall and
Rise of Simon Peter,” Luke 22:31, 32, presenting four definite lessons of warning and encouragement. He showed first that Satan
may lead good people to commit a great sin; second, that this is brought about by almost imperceptible steps downward;
third, that no matter how far the Christian falls, Christ is always ready to bring him back; and lastly, that,
after being restored, Christ is willing to use the Christian mightily. At the second service, Dr. Caldwell took for his
text Mark 10:17-22, and spoke on the “Rich Young Ruler”—the only man who ever came to Christ as an earnest
seeker and then went away dissatisfied. He pointed out the one reason—refusal to put Christ first in his life—and drew
a strong lesson for every hearer. Dr. Caldwell is an able and forceful speaker, and the whole student body enjoyed
his brief visit.

ORCHESTRA PROSPECTS ARE VERY BRIGHT.
At a recent meeting of the Orchestra and Glee Club, F. H. Baker was elected leader for the coming year,
and E. P. Childs, manager. The organization is planning to give a specially good concert next Monday afternoon, and has
been practicing almost daily for some time. During J. F. Harper's absence this week, Baker is taking charge of the
Orchestra. This year has been one of the best in the history of the Davidson musical organization, and a large
part of this success has been due to Harper’s efficient leadership, and especially to the faithful practice of the whole
club. Although the club will lose four or five members this year, prospects are very bright for next year and
the club should have little trouble maintaining the reputation made by this year’s club throughout the South.

Thomas Harper and John Carriker are spending the week at their homes. Latta Law will also remain in Davidson.

* * *
Dr. M. G. Fulton will tour among the summer schools in Virginia in the interests of the Simplified Spelling League,
for the first part of the summer. Mrs. Fulton will be in Kentucky visiting her mother. Dr. and Mrs. Fulton
will be together the remainder of the summer.

Dr. J. M. Douglas and family expect to be in Montreat.

* * *
Dr. W. J. Martin and family will spend the summer at Montreat. Mrs. I. M. MacConnell and children will be
in Charlottesville, Va., with Dr. MacConnell.

* * *
Dr. W. R. Grey and family will remain in Davidson during the summer.

* * *
Dr. W. J. Martin spoke last Tuesday at Carolina College, at Maxton, N. C. From Maxton, Dr. Martin will go
to Newport News, Va., to attend the General Assembly, and from there back to Davidson for Commencement.

Dr. T. W. Lingle delivered a sermon at Cornelius last Sunday afternoon.

* * *
Dr. T. W. Lingle delivered his popular lecture, “Germany in Peace andWar.” in Mooresville last Monday evening at 8 o'clock
under the auspices of the Library Association.

Dr. Edward Mack ('86) has just recently been elected Professor of Hebrew and Old Testament Literature at the Union Theological
Seminary at Richmond, Va. Dr. Mack for a time was pastor of the First Presbyterian church in Charlotte, N.C. For
the last few years he has been a professor at the Lane Theological Seminary, Cincinnati, O.

Y. M. C. A. NEWS.

The meeting of the Y. M.C. A. Thursday night, May 6, was devoted to the discussion of the Social Center
Plan for next year. The president of the association called on several men to give their views on the matter;
and each and every man called on was heartily in favor of the plan as outlined in the last issue
of The Davidsonian. At 8:30 the same evening the canvassing of the dormitories was begun for damage fees to be
devoted for this purpose. Very few fellows refused this offer, the majority being heartily in favor with the proposition. This
work is to be done under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., and will necessarily add to the
association in every way.

NOTICE TO ALL ALUMNI.

COMMENCEMENT. MAY 23-26 FOUR BIG DAYS.

Make your plans now to come back to the good old town, and ramble round the good old campus with
the best friends that you ever had, or ever will have. The college has reserved one of the new dormitories
for Alumni, and there will be a bed there for you. There will also be a big tent for you
to loaf, bicker, and “bull” in. All Alumni will wear a costume with their class numerals on it, so send
to Geo. E. Wilson, Jr., or Dr. Oren Moore, at Charlotte, or W. B. Taylor, Jr. at Winston-Salem, your neck,
coat, waist and inside trouser measurements together with $2.00, for a costume. Also send your class numerals. Don’t put it
off. Do it now. Davidson wants you back and expects you to be here. Remember the dates, May 23-26!

FEMALE FOX TERRIERS—Thoroughbred, mother registered, beauties, price $4.00. McDowell Richards.

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

GERMAN CLUB TO GIVE COMMENCEMENT DANCE

Arrangements have been made by the management of the German Club to have the Commencement Dance in Charlotte at the
Selwyn Hotel immediately after Commencement, Thursday, May 27. The majority of the members have signed up to attend, and with
the visiting Alumni and friends, the dance promises to be one of the most successful ever arranged by the club.
Those who have not already handed in their names to the managers, Messrs. Smith and Carson, are requested to do
so at once. Music will be furnished by the Piedmont Orchestra.

James Van Devanter was called home last Saturday on account of the illness of his father. According to last reports
he is much improved.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE.

During its 55 years’ history has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have ruined
a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for STRENGTH SECURITY SERVICE

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C. J.P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty Thorough Instruction WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly

Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY,--- Remember We always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits and Candy Always Fresh - Always
the best Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED

L. A. ELLIOTT Next door to White Drug Co.
