The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2.

Alumnae Banquet During Convention | News and Happenings of the Week in Town Class Reunions and Enthusiastic Social and Personal
Items About Spirit Features of Gathering.

The Alumni Banquet, held in Charlotte on Wednesday, the 17th, at 6 o'clock, in the dining room of the old
Presbyterian College, was a complete success and a most enjoyable occasion. The dining room was pleasingly decorated by the committee
of ladies who had the dinner plans in charge and who were largely responsible for its success. A color scheme
of Red and Black was carried out, and potted plants were also used. Red candles were placed at convenient intervals
around the tables and the candlesticks draped in red and black. At each place, a booklet containing familiar views of
the college and the campus was placed as a souvenir for the guests.

At a few minutes after 6 o'clock, the guests filed in from the main entrance hall, where they had gathered
upon their arrival. After all were seated, the assembly was led in prayer by Dr. Graham. During the serving of
the first course, the members of the class of '06 who were present began the lively yells, singing, and general
conversation which followed by giving their class yell. For some time after this, the various classes represented gave their yells
and snatches of the old college songs. A yell for Dr. Martin and for Coach Metzer followed. Among the yells
of special interest was one by about twenty old Davidson men now at Union Seminary, for the Seminary; a yell
by three representatives of the class of '05, a yell for '13 led by "Zip" Watkins, one of the class
of which Dr. Lingle and Dr. J. L. Douglas were members, these two members of the faculty joining in the
yell, and finally a yell by the class of '98. This yell was:

D.C. N.C... '98,
We thank our stars
We're still alive.

After the conclusion of these yells and songs, Dr. Martin delivered the address of welcome and then asked Dr. Rose
of the class of '68, who is now pastor of the Laurinburg church, to act as toastmaster. Speeches were made
by Dr. Fraser, '76, of Staunton, Va.; Alfred Scarborough, President of the Student Body; Prof. A. Currie, of the Faculty;
Dr. McKay, in regard to the work of the Alumni Athletic Association; Mr. Lacy, who has since his graduation taken
a course at Oxford; and Dr. Martin, in regard to the plans for the improvement and extension of the college
work and the campus. In response to the statement by Dr. Martin of the needs of the college along these
lines, the classes of '86, '08, '96, '09, '93 pledged themselves to donate $500 each to the extension work. Short
speeches were then made by Dr. J. M. McConnell, Mr. C. L. Grey, Dr. Anderson, of Winston-Salem, and several other
alumni. The dinner was brought to a close with a few yells and a concluding speech by Dr. Martin. The
entire party then adjourned in order to attend the night session of the Laymen's Convention.

ASSISTANT BASEBALL MANAGERS ELECTED

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Association, T. A. Hill and R. G. Finley were elected assistant baseball managers
for the season, each receiving 140 votes. W. T. Witt ran a close third.

The Village People.

Rev. J. A. Vandevanter and Miss Annie Vandevanter, of Fort Defiance, Va., spent Friday here. Rev. and Mrs. W. A.
Grey spent a day in Davidson last week. Dr. J. M. Douglas has been sick for a few days with
the grippe. Mr. Andrews was absent on a visit in Georgia for a few days last week. Miss Miles was
a visitor at the home of Mrs. Worth last Friday. Hugh Minter is visiting friends in Lancaster, S.C. Miss Louise
Lucke is visiting Mrs. M. Douglas this week. Mr. H. P. Helper, Lewis Johnston, and Carlysle Sloan have returned from
Florida, where they have been spending the winter. Mr. J. Lee Sloan is visiting his daughter, Mrs. Currie, in Clarkton,
N.C. Mrs. J. B. Dishongh and Mrs. J. J. McCloy, of Monticello, Ark., spent Sunday here. Dr. W. J. Martin
spoke at the First Presbyterian church in Dallas, Tex., Sunday. Mrs. W. W. McAllister, of Greensboro, spent Saturday with Mrs.
Worth. Miss Minnie Cranford spent Sunday here with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Cranford. Mrs. Hughes, the mother of Sam
Hughes, was a visitor here Sunday. Some of the ladies of the town who attended the Convention in Charlotte were:
Miss Julia Johnston, Miss Foreman, Mrs. John Reid, Mrs. Wooten, Mrs. Thompson, Miss Hattie Thompson, Miss Mary Lafferty, Mrs. C.
R. Harding, Mrs. C. M. Richards, Miss Maude Vinson, Miss Fannie McBryde, Miss Bona Petts, Miss Rena Ports. The church
service last Sunday night was given over to a discussion by the laymen of the church of the best ways
of conserving the results of the Laymen’s Convention in the church life.

Miss Lorene Johnston returned Saturday from a two weeks’ trip to North Wilkesboro. Mrs. M. W. Cranford left Monday night
for Jacksonville, Fla., to be at the bedside of her daughter, Mrs. C. F. Herrick, who will be operated upon
Wednesday for appendicitis.

High School pupils were granted a holiday last Wednesday. Jack McCaskill left Sunday for the Charlotte Sanitarium. He has been
ill for some time, suffering with his throat, and has been confined in the infirmary. As his condition did not
improve, it was deemed wise to move him to Charlotte. The Orchestra and Glee Club left Monday noon for a
week's trip through South Carolina and Georgia.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1915.

Forty-Five Juniors Annual Oratoricals.

It is now only a little more than a week until the Junior Oratorical exercises are to be held. Speaking
begins Friday afternoon, March 5, and continues through Saturday afternoon, March 6. The facultyhas granted Saturday, March 6, as a
holiday. In one respect, the present Junior class holds a unique record, a record which only a very few preceding
Junior classes have ever surpassed. From the program which appears below, it will be seen that from a total class
enrollment of forty-five, forty of that number are members of a literary society, while only five are not members of
a literary society. This fact shows the interest which the class as a whole takes in literary work and should
serve as a criterion of the character of their speaking exercises. The list of speakers, with their subjects, is as
follows:

M. R. Adams, Statesville, N.C. “Hannibal”
J. B. Arrawood (Phi), Candor, N.C. “The Iron Fortress”
F. L. R. Bain (Phi), Wade, N.C. “The Value of Decisions”
I. A. Bain (Phi), Wade, N.C. “The Minimum Wage”
R. H. Bennett (Eu), Trenton, Tenn. “The American College”
B. H. Budd (Eu), Hazlehurst, Miss. “A Great Leader”
J. W. Carson (Phi), Charlotte, N.C. “America’s Greatest Achievement”
B. G. Clary (Phi), Mooresville, N.C. “Power Versus Beauty”
W. C. Copeland (Phi), Rocky Mount, N.C. “Death Knell of Militarism”
H. B. Craig (Phi), Matthews, N.C. “American Pyramids”
I. M. Crawford (Phi), Greensboro, N.C. “The Literary ‘Pests’”
S. M. Crisp (Phi), Falkland, N.C. “My Brother’s Keeper”
I. G. Edgerton (Eu), Suffolk, Va. “Taking the Automobile Seriously”
N. P. Furr (Phi), Reidsville, N.C. “Woman Holds Our Destiny”
R. G. Finley (Phi), Wilkesboro, N.C. “The Daniel Boone Drama”
S. E. Law (Phi), Cornelius, N.C. “The River in the Ocean”
W. M. Lyerly, Statesville, N.C. “Wellington”
G. B. Flave (Eu), Atlanta, Ga. “The Patriotic Duty”
R. L. Hughes, Cedar Grove, N.C. “The Anglo-Saxon Accord”
W. M. Johnson (Eu), Calhoun, Ga. “The Challenge of the Country”
R. L. Jones (Eu), Greenwood, S.C. “Primitive Man”
Latta Law (Eu), Rock Hill, S.C. “Yourself”
J. M. McBryde (Phi), Red Springs, N.C. “Bismarck and the Present European Wars”
H. McCormick (Phi), Manchester, N.C. “Our Indian Wards”
K. M. McDonald (Phi), Hope Mills, N.C. “The Mills of God”
F. J. McIntire (Phi), Wilmington, N.C. “Cotton Dethroned”
A. M. McKeithen (Phi), Cameron, N.C. “Personal Efficiency”
V. R. McNeill, Fayetteville, N.C. “The Country of Opportunity”
D. M. Monroe (Phi), Manchester, N.C. “America’s Opportunity”
H. M. Scott (Phi), Lenoir, N.C. “The Challenge of the Submarines”
W. G. Morrison (Eu), Okolona, Miss. “Politics and the College Man”
I. A. Mullen (Eu), Shawnee, Okla. “The Demand of the Hour”
H. W. Ormand (Phi), Bessemer City, N.C. “Public Opinions”
J. G. Patton (Eu), Decatur, Ga. “The Danger of the Present Peace Movement”
O. L. Payne (Phi), Washington, N.C. “Future Leadership of the United States”
Roe Perry (Eu), Easley, S.C. “The Danger of Ambition”
W. C. Rourk (Phi), Wilmington, N.C. “Graduated”

Practice Warming Up To Speak Next Week As Spring Approaches

Interesting Program Promised For Base Ball Prospects Appear Brighter Every Day. Each day as the sun begins to shine a
little warmer than the day before, the prospects for a winning baseball team seem brighter and brighter. The men are
beginning to get the whip in their arms and their eye on the ball, and in general are getting into
good shape. About every other day, Coach Fetzer has a short game, which lasts about three or four innings. The
prospective pitchers are Morris, Lawson, Moore, Hengerveld, Given, Dafin, and McKeithan. These are put through a warming up every afternoon,
and all are rounding into good shape. The men who are out to receive these men are Captains Allard, Austin,
and McKinnon. From these men, an efficient catching staff will be available. In the infield, Saunders, Somerville, Christenbury, Black, and
Stough can be seen scooping up the ball almost as good as in mid-season. The season bids to be one
of the best that Davidson has had in many years. Coach Fetzer seems to give every man as much attention
as possible, so consequently all are fastly rounding into form. In the outfield, Brown, Walker, and C. L. are out
from last year's team, and many others who are showing up well. The whole squad spends about half of the
afternoon's practice in batting, and the rest in infield and outfield practice. The pitchers and catchers work separately from the
rest, getting the kinks out of their arms and getting their slants to work. Carl Cashion is expected up sometime
this week to help Coach Fetzer with the pitchers. Everitt Booe has been out helping him with the infielders and
outfielders. He played with Indianapolis, winners of the Federal League pennant, last year. A game between an all-star team and
the Varsity will be played Friday of Junior Speaking, and everyone will have a chance to see the team in
action.

“GLAD TO SEE YOU AGAIN, OLD MAN”

A glad greeting and a hearty handshake—this was a common sight during the Convention. Friends who had not seen each
other for years met and refreshed the memories of old acquaintance. Most interesting to Davidson men was the frequent reunion
of old college friends who had been separated from each other for years and maybe tens of years. There were
alumni in Charlotte whose classes went as far back as the sixties and seventies, and these were just as happy
to see each other as the present Seniors and Juniors were to see their friends of the classes recently.

Opportunity” F. A. Scott (Eu), Fort Smith, Ark. “Our Republic”
Duncan Shaw (Phi), Fayetteville, N.C. “Our Present Immigration”
F. E. Smith (Eu), Easley, S.C. “The Pure Press”
W. Somerville (Eu), Mitchells, Va. “Opportunities of the College”
J. M. Sparrow (Phi), Washington, N.C. “Spirit of North Carolina”
W. P. Thomson, Rock Hill, S.C. “The Federal Reserve System”
J. P. Williams (Eu), Chattanooga, Tenn. “Municipal Progress”
W. T. Witt (Phi), Mt. Airy, N.C. “The Fate of Belgium”

Ralston Shoes For Junior Speaking. See Rowland & McIntyre, 11 Chambers.
