4 The DAVIDSONIAN. March 24, 1915

DETAILS OF FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST

Preliminaries for the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest will be held in the Eumenean and Philanthropic halls. In these preliminaries, three contestants
from each society will be chosen, who will represent their respective societies in the final contest. The following is a
list of the entrants and their subjects:

Phi Society:
W. G. Craig, “Murder Will Out”
C. E. Rankin, “Patrick Henry Before the House of Burgesses”
R. H. Ratchford, “The New South”
J. A. Thames, “The True Grandeur of Nations”
J. E. McBride, “The Unknown Speaker”
W. B. Knox, “The Traitor’s Deathbed”
Wm. Cumming, “The End of the Arena Scene”
J. W. Clark, “Infamous Legislation”
J. W. Mann, “A Call to Arms”
J. B. Mallard, “The Unknown Speaker”
G. McDonald, “Sargeant Prentiss’ First Plea”

Eu Society:
McIntosh, “America’s Duty to Resist”
W. L. Douglass, “Resurgam”
W. Y. Sayad, “A Tell-Tale Heart”
E. K. Boggs, S. Hunter, A. R. Craig, B. F. Hagood, H. K. Aiken, P. B. Price, F. H. Hamilton,
Bellingrath, Chambliss, J. R. Woods.

The Fresh-Soph contest has finally been set for next Friday night, March 26. The change was necessary because the judges
wished to attend the meeting of the men of the church at the Civic League hall on Tuesday night.

INTERESTING TALKS BY MRS. MOTTE MARTIN

Mrs. Motte Martin, one of the missionaries of the Southern Presbyterian Church to the Congo, has been on the Hill
this week, visiting in the families of Dr. Arbuckle and Mrs. Vinson. With her is her little son and Bakumba,
an African girl. While here she met Rev. Mr. Crane, an alumnus of Davidson. He is just back from the
Congo and brought her news from her husband, who is also a missionary in Africa, and whom she has not
seen for two years. It is probable that Mrs. Martin will sail at an early date for Lisbon, Portugal, where
she will meet her husband, who will be on a furlough. After resting there for a while, they will both
return to Africa and resume their work.

On last Wednesday night, Mrs. Martin and Mr. Crane spoke to the colored people of the community in one of
the negro churches, on the customs, dress, and conditions in Africa. Bakumba added to the interest by singing “Trust and
Obey” in African dialect. On Friday afternoon, Mrs. Martin addressed the Student Volunteer Band with a most interesting account of
the missions in Africa. Mrs. Martin leaves Davidson today.

ANNUAL SENT TO PRESS

The last of the material for the 1915 Annual was sent to the publishers in Atlanta, Ga., today, and the
staff, after much faithful work, and the entire student body now await with keen anticipation the time when the publishers
shall have finished their task. Many and important changes will be made in the Annual this year, but in order
that the interest in its appearance might not in any way be diminished, the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager are careful
not to reveal even the nature of these changes. The fact that a new publishing house has the contract this
year is evidence in itself of an Annual with new features. The Annuals will reach Davidson about the last of
April.

REPRESENTATIVE OF BIBLE SCHOOL HERE

K. G. McComb, from White’s Bible School, New York, delivered an address before the Ministerial and Student Volunteer Bands last
Saturday afternoon. He is a student body representative, and during his vacation is making a tour of Southern colleges. Mr.
McComb had a short talk after supper with members of the band who were interested in his work.

SPLENDID SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

He brought them a forceful and telling call to the ministry. At the regular 11 o'clock services, which was the
communion service, eight members were added to the church, six by profession of faith and two by certificate. The evening
service was the crowning service of the meeting. The church was well filled. After one of the most impressive sermons
of the week, cards were distributed throughout the congregation and each was asked to state the help that he or
she had received from the services. Many messages of gratitude and thanks were written on these cards. Dr. Graham left
Monday morning to return to Lexington, Va., where he is pastor, but the messages that he has brought to Davidson
will live and affect the lives of the people of the city for many years.

BASEBALL SCHEDULE

(Continued from page 1)

had a good deal of ability. This staff should bid fair to equal the pitching trio of last year, consisting
of Osteen, Currieand Anderson. Captain Alford will do the brunt of the receiving for the Red and Black Machine this
season. With his knowledge of the game, his hitting ability, and his deadly peg, he will be without doubt the
most valuable captain we have had in years. The infield is rapidly getting into shape and needs only a few
more sunshiny days to get in smooth working order. Saunders, a Freshman from Hampden-Sidney, is the best bet for the
initial sack. He handles himself well and is a fair hitter. Christenbury will be seen at second base performing in
his usual style. His hitting and base running will be of great help to the team as usual. Somerville will
work at short with his usual brilliancy. This pair will be a tower of strength to the infield as they
have had previous experience and work together well. Black, of Fishburne Military School, seems to be the probable man for
third base. In the outfield, Stough, Brown, Walker, Keesler, Hughes, and McKinnon are showing up well. Stough played last year
and was one of the hardest hitters on the team. Brown made his letter for the past two years and
led the team in hitting last season. Walker played in most of the games last season and is showing up
well both in the field and at the bat. The first game of the season will be played on the
Hill against Elon on Friday of this week. It bids fair to be a hotly contested game, since the Varsity
is fast getting into trim, and the nine from Elon are considered in the class of any other team in
the State. Now with a little backing by the student body, the team will fight its way to victory. So
let our motto for the entire season be “Plenty Pep.”

LITERARY SOCIETIES.
Saturday night, March 27—Debate.
Phi Society: Affirmative, Worth, Stough, McCormick, Crisp, and Carson. Negative, Arrowood, Hollister, Reese, Sprunt, and Harper.
Eumenean Society: Affirmative, Toney, Woods, J. B., Williams, J. T., Hunter, and Baker. Negative, Thompson, Whiteside, Woods, J. R., Williams,
I. P., and Griffin.
Monday, March 29—Phi Society: Weber, Howard, McKeithan, Gray, Rowan, Sparrow, Shaw, McNeill, Knox, and Henderson.
Eumenean Society: Morton, Patterson, Porter, Price, P. B., Roddey, Scarborough, Scott, and Shaw.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE.
The date of the Junior-Senior debate has been placed one night ahead of the scheduled time owing to the fact
that some of the students will be going away for Easter. It was set for Saturday night, April 7, so
now it will take place on Friday night, April 2.

White Drug Company, Incorporated
Complete line of Stationery, Drinks, Cigars, Tobaccos
Agents for Norris Exquisite Candies
Prescriptions A Specialty

We are always glad to see you. See us for Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars, and Drinks
Prescriptions Carefully Compounded
Davidson Drug Co.
The Rexall Store

Visit the New Hotel Clayton
The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.
EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

is the place for the best Soda Drinks, Cigars, Cigarettes, and a full assortment of Huyler’s Candy

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check.
Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

JETTON Drug Store

Barber Shop
E.R. JENKS - - OP

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL for FIRE INSURANCE

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality
Our personal attention given to all work and all work guaranteed.
Mahew Pressing Club
Alexander & Mayberry, Props.

EXPERIENCE TEACHES
That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite Summer sport. Equipment that's just a
little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves.
Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field
Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request.
A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College Representing

When in Charlotte, it's the New Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive Improvements
