4 — MISS HOOD ENTERTAINS.

On last Saturday night, Miss Carrie Hood entertained a number of her friends in honor of her sister and Miss
Anne Payne. Several interesting games were played, among them an auction sale of various prize packages, payment for which was
made with beans that had been given to each of the guests. A series of motion pictures was also shown,
and fortunes were told by Mrs. Worth. Adding to the pleasure of the evening were the vocal selections rendered by
Miss Hood, Mr. Jas. Fowle, and Mr. W. G. Morrison. After the conclusion of the games, delightful refreshments were served.
Among those who were present were Misses Louise Manning, Sarah Wooten, Maude Vinson, Mary Young, Annie Jones, Anne Payne, the
Misses Hood and the Misses Smith, and Messrs. Foster, Harding, McClure, Cumming, Chambliss, Mattison, Mullen, Worth, Thomas, Angle, Morrison, Fowle,
R. H. Jones, R. C. Jones, Payne.

HAND BOOKS ARRIVE.

The Y. M. C. A. Hand Book for 1915-16 was distributed to the students the first part of last week.
This little book is published annually by the Y. M. C. A., and contains much valuable information for the students,
both old and new. Among the things to be found within its covers are the names of the student body
and class officers, and also those of the Athletic Association and Y. M. C. A. The rolls of the student
council, fraternities, and other organizations are given in full. The directory of students found in the back of the book
will be of great value to all, as will also the information relating to the library, library societies, honor system,
etc. This year’s edition is practically the same as that of last year, very few changes being made. The editing
and publication were in charge of L. G. Fadgerton, as manager, assisted by J. A. Thames.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

The regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night was led by Mr. P. B. Price ('17).
His subject was “Prayer.” He chose four Bible characters to illustrate the different types of prayer. Enoch was a man
of ceaseless prayer. He walked with God and doubtless talked with Him as he walked. Jacob was a man of
importunate prayer, spending a whole night wrestling with the Lord, and as a blessing, he was changed from Jacob the
thief of man, to Israel, the prince of God. Elijah was the man of faith in prayer—his prayer to relieve
the three-year famine came when the sky was clear, but the seventh prayer brought rain. Jesus was a man of
passionate prayer, sweating great drops of blood in Gethsemane. From these examples, prayer should be ceaseless, importunate, faithful, and passionate.
It should be specific and purposeful, and made alone and aloud to give more direct communion with God. Announcement was
made of the Chapman-Alexander meetings, and earnest prayer was offered for their success.

DR. McCONNELL’S OFFICE HOURS ANNOUNCED

Dr. J. W. McConnell wishes to announce to students that his office hours are as follows: 8:30 to 10 a.m.,
7:00 to 8:00 p.m.; afternoons and Sundays by appointment.

T. R. McNeil has been confined to the hospital for a few days with a severe cold.

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 6, 1915

The Rexall Store invites you to inspect their complete line of Stationery, Fountain Pens, Toilet Articles, Etc.

Goodrich Tennis Balls

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Trinity College—Through the generosity of Messrs. James B. and Benjamin N. Duke, a granite wall thirty inches high will be
built around the campus of Trinity College. Work will be begun immediately and the wall completed as soon as possible.
Since Trinity has no football team, the coach of the baseball team is utilizing the good fall weather for baseball
practice, and states that practice will continue as long as the weather will permit. About forty men are out trying
for positions.

* * *

V. M. I.—Nelms ('17) has recently been elected captain of the V. M. I. football team. He is elected in
place ofOates, who failed to return this year. Four coaches—Bain, Youell, Gorton, and Dr. Randolph, are hard at work whipping
the team into form for a schedule which includes North Carolina, Clemson, V. P. I., University of Virginia, and A.
& M.

* * *

A. & M.—The two publications of A. & M. College, the Red and White, published by the literary societies, and
the Wau Gau Rac, by the athletic association, have been combined into one publication which will appear semi-monthly. The staff
of the new periodical will be composed of men from both former papers.

Dr. Richards has made a departure from the usual method of conducting prayer services on Wednesday evenings. The services will
be in the form of a class for the systematic study of the Scriptures, in which those attending will take
part. The book of Galatians is now being studied.

CAMPUSISMS.

* * *

Soph—“How about buying a pressing club ticket?”

Fresh—“What are they good for?”

Soph—“Why, you can go to the barber shop and get six teeth filled for one of them.”

* * *

Professor—“What is a caterpillar?”

Student—“An upholstered worm.”

* * *

Upperclassman—“What about signing up for a Bible study class?”

Fresh—“How many times a week does it come?”

* * *

For any information in regard to punctuating “Virgule” in French, see Payne.

* * *

Howard Dishong is back in style, wearing his blue collars and green ties.

Justifiable.

Wife—William! Don’t you realize you ran over a man?

Hubby—That's all right, my dear. He’s the fellow that guaranteed to teach me how to drive this new car in
two lessons.—Life.

A “cub” reporter on a New York newspaper was sent to Paterson to write the story of the murder of
a rich manufacturer by thieves. He spread himself on the details and naively concluded his account with this sentence: “Fortunately
for the deceased, he had deposited all of his money in the bank the day before, so he lost practically
nothing but his life.”—Harper’s.

A Scotch minister in need of funds thus conveyed his intentions to his congregation: “Weel, friends, the kirk is urgently
in need of siller, and as we have failed to get money honestly we will have to see what a
bazaar can do for us.”—Tit-bits.

We are always glad to see you. Prescriptions a Specialty.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.

CAKES, CANDIES, and EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT

Visit OUR HIGH-GRADE GROCERY STORE

L. A. ELLIOTT

HOTEL STONEWALL—Charlotte, N. C.

The Flyless Restaurant

TORRENCE & HELPER

Also Auto Service

For All the Latest Athletic Dope Drop in at Jetton’s

UNEXCELLED FOUNTAIN SERVICE

Complete Line of Drugs, Stationery, Tennis Balls, and Golf Clubs

WE STRIVE TO PLEASE

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING

Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES

Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.

HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N. C.

WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - Raleigh, N. C.

HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

SPALDING QUALITY.

No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for
the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and
indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready. Our Fall and Winter Catalogue
shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA

The COMMISSARY

Give your Shoe Repair Work To

JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP

RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop.
Next door to Post Office
