4

DAVIDSON SUMMER SCHOOL.

The monotony of vacation quiet on the campus was broken the first of August by the opening of a two
weeks’ session of the Mecklenburg Summer School or Teachers’ Institute.

The Davidson College plant has been at the service of this school in previous years and the experiences incident to
such a session are not new to either the town or a large fraction of those that attended the Institute.

According to promise, the enrollment reached close to 190, more than 180 prospective teachers in the Mecklenburg public schools being
matriculates, as required by the school law of the county.

The Institute was conducted by Prof. J. Henry Highsmith, of the chair of Education in Wake Forest. Instruction in Primary
class work was under the direction of Miss Mary Arrington, formerly assistant superintendent of education in Franklin County.

Miss Mary O. Graham, of Charlotte, assistant superintendent in Mecklenburg, was present, having oversight of the arrangements for the entertainment
of the school and giving general directions for the smooth working out of the official program. She gave instruction to
classes in methods of reading and story telling. Miss Bobbitt taught drawing. During the session of the school, there were
present a number of visitors, several of whom addressed the teachers in lectures more or less formal. Among these were
Professor Sams, of Raleigh; Principal John E. Ray, of the State School for the Blind and Deaf; and Dr. T.
M. McConnell, who gave two highly informative and instructive lectures on the present European War.

Music was a special feature of the Institute and morning chapel and other hours were marked by some fine, even
inspirational rendering of standard hymns and national songs and anthems.

Social features were not neglected. In the second week, an elaborate program under a class leader and “stunts” of a
varied character were “pulled off” to the amusement of a large audience assembled in front of the west portico of
the Library building. The evening, as far as the rain allowed, was brought to a happy finish, or more strictly
speaking, the next evening was so rounded up, by a watermelon feast, the gift of young men of the town,
who in this way sought to show their pleasure and interest in the presence at Davidson of so many young
lady teachers.

MISS SUSIE BRADY’S HOUSE PARTY.

Miss Susie Brady had as her house guests last week Misses Blanche Howie, of Monroe; Kathleen Spencer, of Lilesville; Mary
Nesbit, of Gaffney, S. C.; Alice Boyd Ellis, of Henderson; Louise Brady, of Statesville; and Mildred Smith, of Statesville.

Miss Brady entertained in honor of her guests Tuesday morning. In the afternoon, the party motored to Huntersville, where they
spent the afternoon with Miss Ruth Blythe.

Miss Bertie Christenbury gave a watermelon feast for the visiting ladies Thursday morning. In the evening, Miss Brady gave a
lawn party in honor of her guests. Fifty-six young people were invited and all spent a most enjoyable evening.

Miss Sarah Wooten entertained in honor of the visiting ladies Friday morning.

TRACK

No. 2 Watts

COLLEGE

PROGRESSIVE

HEADQUARTERS FOR DRINKS, DRUGS, SUNDRIES

WHITE DRUG CO. THE REXALL STORE

Hole Proof Hosiery, Florsheim Shoes

Our Line of Regal Shoes Will Please You

We carry everything in the line of Gents’ Furnishings

A full stock of Sheets, Pillow Cases, and Quilts.

Call on us for anything you need in starting college life.

Brown-Knox Mercantile Co. Armour Bros. & Thompson

Old Students & New:

Come to us for Barber Work

Next Door to Post Office Rutledge Norten, Proprietor

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

See the line of Pennants and College Jewelry at the Jewelry Store

W. M. TORRENCE

EFFICIENT AUTO SERVICE TORRENCE & HELPER

C. B. MOONEY

For REPAIR WORK and BUILDING see

C. B. MOONEY General Contractor
