The DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 10, 1915. VOL 2.

Interesting Events of Junior Speaking
Large Crowd Attends --- Speeches and Glee Club Much Enjoyed.

> REPS. ANNOUNCED.

Eumenean Society.
L. A. Mullen.
J. G. Patton.
F. H. Smith.
Alternate—W. G. Morrison.

Philanthropic Society.
W. C. Copeland.
K. A. Donald.
T. D. Sparrow.
Alternate—D. Shaw.

Both as a class and as individuals the Juniors are to be commended upon the general excellence of their Oratorical
exercises held on Friday and Saturday of last week. All of the speeches were good, and many of them, both
as regards subject matter and manner of delivery, would have done credit to speakers and orators older and more experienced
in the art of public speaking. The orderly and logical way in which each speaker handled his subject should be
a fair indication of his ability and fitness for discussing before his fellowmen questions of public weal after his college
days shall have ended.

For variety of subjects the program could hardly have been better arranged. While one speaker inculcates our minds with unmistakable
evidences of “The Progress of Democracy” in America, another speaker vividly portrays “The Death Knell of Militarism in Germany.” And
while one speaker follows “The Daniel Boone Trail,” another depicts “Municipal Progress” of the last half century. Although eight of
the speakers dealt either directly or indirectly with questions relating to the European War, yet each one of them discussed
entirely different phases of that stupendous conflict.

Before a large and appreciative audience the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club on Saturday evening gave one of the most
interesting and entertaining concerts of the year. Having just returned from a week's tour to other colleges, they were able
to give an exceptionally good program. Encores three times recalled the Quartet, composed of Messrs. McGeachy, Johnston, Ansley, and Fowle.
The individual solos by Messrs. Ansley and Fowle were greeted by merited applause. The concluding number by the Glee Club,
“Davidson For Aye,” was doubly interesting in that it was composed by a member of the club.

Despite the unfavorable weather a goodly number of fair lassies from the South Atlantic States gave a decided social aspect
to all the entertainments in connection with the speaking exercises. About fifty were present. Immediately following the musical concert Saturday
evening all of the fraternities entertained in their honor. Most of the young ladies left on the Monday morning trains
for their homes.

GOOD MOVING PICTURE PROSPECTS

With the return of D. W. Lane to college, the prospects for excellent moving pictures is again in sight. He
proved a very efficient operator last Fall, and with the thorough overhauling of the machine, the future pictures should be
satisfactory in every way.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Literary Societies Announce Contests
Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

Mrs. Dr. Nesbit, of Charlotte, in company with Misses Aline and Mildred Butt, also of that city, spent a day
last week with Mrs. Grey.

A committee from the Board of Trustees of the Statesville Female College waited on Dr. Richards last Friday and offered
him the presidency of that institution. Dr. Richards has not yet made known his decision, and all Davidson men hope
he will stay with us.

Mrs. J. Thompson Brown, of Rock Hill, was here during Junior Speaking, visiting Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

Mrs. Motte Martin will be in Davidson on Wednesday afternoon at 4 o'clock to speak to the Young Ladies’ Missionary
Band. The members of the Women's Missionary Society are invited to be present at this meeting. Mrs. Martin will stay
with Mrs. Arbuckle while in Davidson.

Mr. Perryclear, of Nashville, has been in Davidson for several days trying to interest the students in selling the Students’
Bible next summer.

Robert Thompson, who injured his shoulder in a fall some time ago, is much better.

Mrs. Oak W. Cranford is expected home from Jacksonville on Saturday.

Miss Mary Young returned home a week ago from Salisbury.

Rev. A. T. Graham is expected here on Saturday. He is to hold a series of meetings commencing on Saturday
and continuing through the following Sunday. He will spend the first part of his week in Davidson with Professor Currie,
and then he will spend a few days with Dr. Martin.

The Book Lover's Club will meet with Mrs. Richards on Friday afternoon at 4 o'clock. The subject will be “Biographies
of Recent Famous Men,” led by Mrs. Jackson.

The Women's Missionary Society met at a business meeting at the manse Thursday afternoon. The officers elected are: Mrs. W.
R. Grey, president; Miss Mary Lafferty, vice-president; Mrs. W. J. Martin, secretary; Mrs. J. R. Withers, treasurer. Secretaries were elected
for the four causes of the Assembly and the Barium Springs Orphanage.

Dr. W. R. English, of Union Seminary, preached at the morning and evening services Sunday.

Dr. W. L. Lingle spent Monday night with his brother, Dr. W. W. Lingle.

Miss Ida Lathers, who has been visiting Mrs. Lingle, returned home to New York, Monday night.

Mr. B. C. Deal left Monday morning to attend the convention of the W.O.W. in Durham.

Mrs. Steele, the president of the Charlotte Chapter of the Southern Association of College Alumnae, of which...Debate. Next Monday night
the preliminaries of the Fresh-Soph Declamatory contest will be held in both society halls. All contestants are urged to enroll
as soon as possible. The finals will be held on March 29, in Shearer Hall. A large number of contestants
from both societies, as usual, is expected and much interest is being shown. The preliminaries for the Junior-Senior debate will
be held on April 3. The subject is: "Resolved, That the United States should adopt a policy of subsidizing its
merchant marine." The finals will be held in Shearer Hall, April 19, at which time the Inter Society Debating Cup
will be awarded to the winners. This debate will be larger and better than ever before, as it is planned,
and the spirit of rivalry is already in the air, in anticipation of this contest. On April 12 the Fresh-Soph
debate will be held in both literary societies. The subject decided upon by the debating council is, "Resolved, That the
United States should increase its army and navy." It is hoped that as many of the Freshmen and Sophomores as
possible will enter this contest.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB. At a recent meeting of the Blue Pencil Club, which was recently organized at Davidson for the
development and encouragement of literary interest, the following juniors were elected to membership: Messrs. F. H. Smith, T. V. Z.
Sparrow, and W. G. Somerville. The new members will meet with the club at its monthly meeting tonight. The meetings,
which are attended by the faculty members also, Professors Sentelle, J. M. McConnell, and Fulton, are devoted to informal discussions
of papers and of literary topics of interest. Hot chocolate and sandwiches are always part of the evening program, which
is always interesting and enjoyable.

LITERARY SOCIETIES. Saturday night, March 6: Bannen Society: Affirmative, Patterson, Roddey, Shaw, and Porter. Negative, Price, P. L. B. Scarborough,
and Morton. Philanthropic Society: Affirmative, McDonald, R. A. Mitchell, Mann, and Gilchrist. Negative, Pridgen, Cooper, and Carriker. Monday, March 15:
Bannen Society: Mayfield, McKay, McKinney, and McLeod; Patton, Patrick, and Perry. Philanthropic Society: Craig, W. G., Bullock, Payne, Larkey, Neal,
Copeland, Crawford, and McIntyre.

Mrs. V. W. Lingle, vice-president, was a visitor here last week.
* * *
Mrs. W. R. Young, traveling secretary of the Y. W. C. A., spent Thursday night in town last week.
* * *
Miss Donalda Hagen, of New York, and Miss Cordie Parker, of Albemarle, are visiting at the home of Miss Merle
Booe.
* * *
The home of Mrs. R. Jones, on South Main street, caught on fire under the roof Sunday night, but luckily
the fire was put out before any harm was done.

NO. 22 Red and Black Wins Over Green Machine Childs, Howell, and Reese Star In Good Game For Davidson. Davidson
defeated Charlotte here Saturday by the score of 36 to 24. This gives the Red and Black the series out
of three games which have been played. The first game was won here, and the second was lost to the
Green Machine on the Charlotte floor. The game was attended by many visitors and was exciting from start to finish.
The visitors exhibited fine form in goal shooting, and at the end of the first half the score was in
their favor. Davidson was handicapped by not having Flengevelt at center. In the second half, the local quintette exhibited fine
teamwork and completely outplayed the visitors. What Davidson lacked in their first half was made up for in the second.
The work of Bobbitt and Howell was good for the visitors, while Childs, Howell, and Reese starred for Davidson. The
lineup and points scored:

Davidson. Position. Charlotte.
Somerville, 10 ........ H. Howell, 5 Right forward
Childs, 8 .............. Cuthbertson, 4 Left forward
Howell, 8 ............. Bobbitt, 7 Center
Reese, 10 ............. Black, 4 Right guard
Walker ............... Ross, 4 Left guard

Referee, Austin. Time of halves, 15 minutes.

RECEPTION TO GRYPHONS. A beautiful event of Junior Speaking was the reception tendered the Order of the Gryphon by Dr.
and Mrs. J. M. McConnell last Friday evening. The entire lower floor of their beautiful new home was thrown together
for the occasion and was artistically decorated in gold and black, the colors of the order. In the dining room,
where refreshments were served, festoons of gold and black crepe paper were draped from the chandelier hanging above to the
four corners of the table beneath, where they were fastened with large rosettes of the same material. A magnificent fern
stood in the center of the table and was surrounded with dishes of gold and black mints. Delicious refreshments, consisting
of pineapple salad and sandwiches, tied with gold and black ribbons, were served, and this was followed by hot coffee
and cake. Besides Dr. and Mrs. McConnell, those present were: Mrs. Brown, and Misses Young, Foreman, Peyton, Macon, Steele, Somerville,
Roddey, Nuttall, McKenzie, and Lindsay; and Messrs. Shaw, Carter, Faw, Rowland, Marsh, Boley, McDonald, Gilchrist, Anderson, Harrison, Williams, Finley, and
Sparrow.

EMORY DEBATE DATE CHANGED The Emory Debate, which was scheduled to be held April 5, has been postponed till April
12, as many of the Agnes Scott students will be absent on the former date for Easter holidays. The Clemson
debate will be held on April 5, as first scheduled. The officers have been corresponding a great deal with the
other teams, and final plans are rapidly being made.

Big Lyceum Attraction Saturday Night, Shearer Hall, 8 p.m.
