HIGH SCHOOLS HOLD (Continued from page 1)

The students who were named for the final contest, and their subjects, were: Norman Black, Rocky River, "The Old Man's Story;" Leroy Blackwelder, Winecoff, "Regulus to the Carthaginians;" R. D. Hall, Belmont, "Universal Education;" R. Lacy Ranson, Huntersville, "America in the Twentieth Century;" Runion Rhyne, Waco, "Needs of the Country Boy;" Conly Robinson, Cherryville, "Boys of America." The judges who decided in this contest were Prof. Lingle, Prof. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. Richards.

The Final Contests

An audience which taxed the seating capacity of Shearer Hall, Saturday evening at 8 o'clock, truly reflected the character of the final contests in declamation and recitation. Prof. H. A. Query, a member of the class of 1909, and now principal of the Belmont High School, presided. For variety in subjects and originality in manner of presentation, the recitations and declamations were indeed of a high order. Each number was greeted with hearty applause.

The medal for the best recitation was won by Miss Elizabeth Harding, of the Farmington High School, whose subject was "That Night Honey Got Lost." Mr. R. D. Hall, of the Belmont High School, whose subject was "The Black Horse and His Rider," won the medal for the best declamation. The judges in the declamation and recitation contest were Miss Hood, Dr. Sentelle, and Mr. Jackson. Splendid music for the evening was furnished by the Davidson College Orchestra.

Track Events

At 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, the track events were begun and lasted till 1:30. The various events, the winners, the school represented by each, the number of points, and the highest record, respectively, are given below:

Running High Jump—1st, Harmony, Bard Lawrence, 5, 5 ft. 8 in.; 2nd, Woodleaf, Richards Culberson, 3; 3rd, Huntersville, Cherryville, tied for third place, 1.

100 Yard Dash—1st, Winecoff, Very Earnhardt, 5, 11 2-5 seconds; 2nd, Harmony, Clyde Currant, 4; 3rd, Huntersville, Wade Cashion, 1.

Shot Put—1st, Huntersville, Charles Monteith, 5, 35 ft.; 2nd, Huntersville, Wade Cashion, 3; 3rd, Winecoff, Uza Earnhardt, 1.

Running Broad Jump—1st, Cherryville, Clyde Kendrick, 5, 18 ft. 6 in.; 2nd, Winecoff, Robert Crisco, 3; 3rd, Mt. Ulla, Harmony, tied, Ira Swicegood, Bard Lawrence.

220 Yard Dash—1st, Winecoff, Very Earnhardt, 5, 25.4 seconds; 2nd, Huntersville, Charles Monteith, 3; 3rd, Winecoff, Marvin Cooke, 1.

Hammer Throw—1st, Winecoff, Uza Earnhardt, 5, 80 ft. 8 in.; 2nd, Huntersville, Wade Cashion, 3; 3rd, Winecoff, Lacy Crisco, 1.

Pole Vault—1st, Cherryville, Clyde Kendrick, 5, 7 ft. 6 in.; 2nd, Huntersville, Lacy Ranson, 3; 3rd, Huntersville, Lacy Ranson, Raul Ranson, tied, 1.

660 Yard Relay Race—1st, Winecoff, Very Earnhardt, Luther Barnhardt, Loyd Cooke, 5, 1:20 min.; 2nd, Huntersville, Sherman Watts, Ralph Knox, Hurd Bradford, 3; 3rd, Waco, Augustus Black, Clyde Harrellson, Jasper Miller, 1.

Winecoff, with a total of 26 points, won the Athletic cup and also the cup for the relay race. Huntersville took second place with a total of 23 points. The schools that competed in the various contests were: Stony Point, Rocky River, Winecoff, Waco, Cooleemee, Belmont, Cherryville, Dallas, Harmony, Denver, Huntersville, Matthews, China Grove, Mount Ulla, and Woodleaf. All of the visitors expressed themselves as well pleased with Davidson and its people and expressed the wish that they could repeat the meet here next year.

The Davidsonian congratulates the winners and the other contestants as well for their splendid efforts, and hopes that they will decide to stage their next meet here again.

Basketball Game

An interesting feature of the contests was the game of basketball on the local high school diamond between girls of the Belmont High School and a like team from the Matthews High School. A number of college students were on hand to cheer for the rival teams. At the end of the first half, the score stood 2 to 1 in Belmont’s favor; but during the last half, Belmont by superior teamwork forged steadily ahead and the final score stood 9 to 1 in their favor.

DAVIDSON IS TRIUMPHANT (Concluded from page 1)

The last speaker, Lewis King, of Madison, Ga., made a wonderful debate, attempting to show that American sentiment is against such an alliance; that it would not make for peace; and that the non-civilized South American countries are not capable of such an alliance. He was a master of ridicule, though through the skill of our debaters, it proved his downfall. Each man was given six minutes for rebuttal; and it was here that Davidson clearly showed her superiority. Manory confined this time to the upholding of...two substitute plans and to the description of dark conditions of civilization in Latin America. Davidson demonstrated the weaknesses of both plans, and provoked much applause at the ease with which they led the Emory debaters into deadly dilemmas. J. K. Orr, who presided in the absence of Dr. Gaines, then gave the decision in a witty speech, the vote being three to two in favor of the affirmative. Delightful features of the evening were two musical numbers by the Agnes Scott quartet and a vocal solo by Miss Lysbeth Pendleton. These were greatly applauded. Immediately following the debate, an informal reception was given by the Propylean and Mnemosynean Literary Societies, which proved a most enjoyable event. The Agnes Scott girls were charming hostesses and were most generous in their hospitality. Davidson wishes to express their sincere thanks to them and to the faculty, as well as to the Davidson Alumni Association, for their splendid treatment and hearty interest and support. Those of the Davidson student body who were fortunate enough to attend the debate are hoping for another one in Georgia next year.

CLASS BASEBALL STARTS.

While the Varsity is off the Hill on its trip during this week, the class baseball games will be run off. At recent meetings of the various classes, the following men were elected to manage the teams: Senior, M. A. Boggs, Manager; Junior, W. H. Witt, Manager; Sophomore, Robt. Critz, Manager; Freshman, R. B. Walker, Manager; S. R. Fowle, Captain. The schedule for the week's games is given below:
Tuesday, 13—Junior-Sophomore.
Wednesday, 14—Senior-Freshman.
Thursday, 15—Junior-Senior.
Friday, 16—Senior-Sophomore.
Saturday, 17—Sophomore-Freshman.
Monday, 19—Senior-Junior.

All of the games are to start at 3:30 p.m., except the one on the 19th, which on account of Field Day, will be run off in the morning at 10 o'clock.

Dr. W. J. Martin was absent from the college last week on business matters. He spent a day in Charlottesville, Va., and also a day in Washington. There he visited Secretary of the Navy Daniels. Dr. Martin spent some days in New York, where he enjoyed a luncheon with several alumni of Davidson. From there he went to Cambridge and consulted Mr. Nolan, the landscape architect, as to the plans for beautifying our campus. On his way home, Dr. Martin again stopped in Washington and Richmond, Va.

Prescriptions A Specialty
White Drug Company, Incorporated
Complete line of Stationery, Drinks, Cigars, Tobaccos
Agents for Norris Exquisite Candies
The Rexall Store

Let that fact sink in. daily profit. J. M. Bain, 25 Main Building

The Hotel Clayton
The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.
EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION

We can give you full proof of the $8.69 daily profit. We are going to settle the question of college expenses by going into the same vacation work and can place a few Davidson men with us who can qualify and will see us promptly for information.

$8.69 was the average daily profit of 344 college and university men during last summer vacation. A. S. Cummins, Henderson Hotel

We are always glad to see you. See us for Stationery, Fountain Pens, Cigars, and Drinks. Prescriptions Carefully Compounded. Davidson Drug Co.

Hot? Tired? Drop in and try our Fountain. The very best Drinks served in the Most Sanitary Way. Also a full line of Tobacco. Jetton Drug Co.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,600.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

That's why you should go to Spalding’s when you want equipment for your favorite summer sport. Equipment that's just a little bit better. Designed and made by experts who know how to use the goods themselves. Complete Equipment For BASEBALL, TENNIS, GOLF, Track and Field. Our 1915 Spring and Summer Catalogue is now ready and will be mailed free on request. A.G. Spalding & Bros. L. A. MULLEN, Agent No. 2 Watts

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT Extensive Improvements