The DAVIDSONIAN, February 3, 1915

THE MILITARY GIRLS COMPANY.

“MILITARY GIRLS” COMING ATTRACTION.

Next Friday night the third number of the Lyceum Course will be given in Shearer Hall. The attraction will be the “Military Girls,” consisting of six attractive girls, who appear as a drum corps and orchestra. In the drum corps, they give selections from many old military and patriotic airs. As an orchestra, they render their selections from the songs that everyone knows and that appeal to all. There is one reader in the company, and most of the girls are individual soloists.

It was announced in The Davidsonian that the Lyceum Course had been discontinued, but by special effort on the part of the management, this number and the one given last week were secured. As to whether there will be any further attractions after Friday night, all depends upon the backing given to it by the student body and town. The future Lyceum Courses at Davidson depend upon whether a success can be made of it this year or not. There is no reason why a success cannot be made of it this year if the student body will back up the management by attending the attractions. A very good crowd was present at the number given last week, and it is hoped that as many and more, too, will be present Friday night.

The “Military Girls” is a high-priced entertainment and will be given at Davidson at a reduced price. If everyone will come out, some more good numbers are assured in the future.

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS OGLETHORPE EXERCISES

Dr. Martin has returned from a trip to Atlanta, where he, as Moderator of the General Assembly, presided at the exercises which were held in connection with the laying of the cornerstone of the new Oglethorpe University. The exercises, which were held in the North Avenue Presbyterian Church, included addresses by Dr. Jas. I. Vance, of Nashville, Tenn., and Dr. Green, of Danville, Ky. After the conclusion of the program, luncheon was served by the ladies of the church. A large party of those present then went by automobile to the site of the University, where the formal laying of the cornerstone took place. That evening, a banquet for the board of trustees and their friends was given at the Winecoff Hotel.

While in Atlanta, Dr. Martin met with the Georgia Association of the Davidson alumni at one of their monthly meetings and lunches at the Hotel Ansley. A large number of alumni were present and an interesting and enthusiastic meeting was held, during which the association pledged its support to the movement now being perfected for the upbuilding of Davidson.

The 23rd and 24th were spent by Dr. Martin at Athens, Ga., with Dr. Rowland, chairman of the Laymen's Convention, with whom he discussed plans for the convention and for the attendance of the Davidson student body at its meetings. Returning, Dr. Martin stopped over in Charlotte to attend a meeting of Davidson alumni there, at which plans for the proposed improvements at Davidson were discussed.

Mr. S. H. Hay was married during the Christmas holidays to Miss McMaster, of Winnsboro, S. C.

SOPHS 6, FRESH 0.

In a game in which both teams evinced to a high degree that fighting, tenacious, unconquerable spirit, so characteristic of all inter-class games, the Sophs, on Tuesday afternoon, January 26, were the victors over the Fresh by a narrow but well-earned 6 to 0 score. During the first half, neither team could claim any marked advantage or make consistent gains when gains would count for a touchdown. The Fresh line, lighter perhaps than that of their opponents, held like adamant against the repeated line bucks of the Soph backfield. Around the Fresh ends, however, a weakness was soon revealed and McKinnon and Porter made several brilliant gains.by short and long end runs. But all such gains by Ives and Crouch for the Fresh were counterbalanced by a like strategy. Neither goal was in imminent danger of being crossed during the first half. Soon after the beginning of the second half, the Soph tactics of short and long end runs and occasional line plays, aided by good interference, began to show perceptible gains; and the ball, at the end of the third quarter, had been carried to the Fresh two-yard line. One play, a short right end run by Porter, at the beginning of the fourth quarter, brought the Sophs their only touchdown of the game. A try at goal failed. In the last few minutes of play, Ives, eluding the Soph backfield, made a beautiful broken field run of thirty yards. The line-up of the two teams was as follows:

Sophomore. Position. Freshmen.
Smith, J.D. ....center..... Meek
Mayfield ........ T.Qec cece cae Toney
Price......:... bg... ce eee. Alford
Finley, T. A. ....1.t. Finley, A. G.
Miller (c) ...... | kK rn ounders
Thames, J. A.....4r.c... Thames, P. B.
Mattison ....... lew... Richardson
Shane .......... quarter.... Ives (c)
McKinnon ..... | Crouch
Porter ......... Lh... oo... Armstead
Keesler, W. P. ...f.b..... Smith. D. P.

Substitutions—Sophomores: McMillan for Mayfield, Jenkins for Thames, Ratchford for Keesler, Young for Mattison, Carroll for McMillan. Freshmen: McCloy for Richardson, Booth for Armstead, Armstead for Thames. Time of quarters, 8-8-8-8. Referee, Crayton; Umpire, Howell.

ANNUAL WORK BEING RUSHED.

Practically all of the individual pictures for the Annual have come in and shipments are being made to the engravers every two or three days. The last of the group pictures have come in, too. The art staff is being rushed to get all of the drawings on time, while the editor hopes to send the first installment of the printed matter to the printers sometime this week. He is said to be unable to think of anything except Quips and Cranks now. It is simply a matter of getting the work into the hands of the printers and the engravers in time now, and all hands are crowding.

Carl Cashion, ’13, has signed a contract. Cashion will be with the American Association as Manager. He will be given a trial at first base and should develop into a strong hitter.

Subscribe NOW to The Davidsonian

Pure Drugs, Soda, Cigars, and Tobaccos, Candy, Toilet Preparations. Prescriptions Our Specialty.

WELCOME
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

FOR FIRE INSURANCE SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL

While in Charlotte visit TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The Best Work By Experienced Barbers

Something Good to Drink? You will find it at our Fountain. Complete Line of Drugs, Stationery, Fountain Pens
Jetton Drug Co.
Phone 7
EAST TRADE ST.

Brains at the expense of the body, paradoxically, shows lack of gray matter. No man is so busy that he cannot give a few minutes each day to a little exercise. A pulley weight rigged up in your room will do wonders to strengthen you, make you feel better, and increase your efficiency. Complete Equipment for Basket Ball, Foot Ball, Base Ball, Golf, Tennis, Track and Field. Our catalogue will give you many ideas you never thought of, and show you how simple it is to derive pleasure from your exercising. A postal will bring this catalogue.

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent
No. 2 Watts

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit are to remain for three months.

SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

When in Charlotte, it's the New Coble’s Hotel Central
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
Extensive improvements

For Sale by
The Davidson Drug Company