The DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 29, 1915. Vol. 3.

Literary Society Plans For the Coming Year
Enrollment the Largest Yet---Contests for the Year Announced.

The Philanthropic Society, with an enrollment of forty-one new members, and the Eumenean Society, with an enrollment of thirty-one new members, have begun what now promises to be a most successful year of work. The number of new men in both societies is seventy-two, or approximately 40 percent of their total membership of 184. The Phi now has a total membership of 95; the Eu a total membership of 89. It is worthy of note that 52 percent of all those who have matriculated in college are members of literary societies.

DEBATING TEAMS.
Following a plan inaugurated last year, Davidson will again put out two Inter-Collegiate Debating Teams. Both debates will be held in the spring. A contract for a debate with Emory has been signed, but the other debate is still open.

ANNUAL CONTESTS.
All of the Literary Society contests for the year will be held during the spring term. These contests comprise the Fresh-Soph debate, the Fresh-Soph declamation contest, the Junior-Senior debate, and the Fiction and Essay contests. In the Fresh-Soph declamation contest, preliminaries are held in each hall and the three best from each society are chosen for the final contest, the winner from each society being awarded a medal. There are no preliminary contests in the Fresh-Soph debaters’ contest, and the winner in each hall is awarded a medal. At Junior Speaking, six commencement orators, three from each society, are chosen to contest during commencement week for a handsome gold medal known as the Junior Orator’s Medal. The Junior-Senior debate is primarily an inter-society contest, but at the final contest in which three from each society speak, a medal is given to the best debater from each society. Medals are given jointly by the two societies for the best article of fiction and the best essay.

THE COMING CLEMSON GAME
On next Saturday, Davidson goes up against the heavy Clemson team for the second game of the season. Last year the Red and Black machine played them to a tie game on the local field. This year Davidson plays them at Clemson. Clemson is expecting to have an unusually strong team this year. Nearly all of last year’s line will be back in the game this fall with the exception of Schilleter at tackle. They are not so fortunate in the backfield, only two of last year’s men, quarterback McMillan and halfback Majors, having returned, James and fullback Webb being out. They have several good men that were ineligible last year and are expecting some good material from the new men. The Tigers expect to avenge last year’s tie, but the Red and Black team, knowing that the game last year was virtually a victory for them, are going to put up an unusually strong fight. The officials for the game have not been chosen.

State Conference at Guilford College Proves Great Success
The Large Delegations and Splendid Speakers Insured Successful Session---Davidson Wins in Athletics.

The local delegation to the State Student Y. M. C. A. Conference, at Guilford College, which left Davidson at 12:50 p.m. Thursday, included the following twenty-seven men: W. C. Rourk, J. G. Patton, Jr., S. B. Hay, Jr., W. G. Somerville, R. H. Bennett, W. A. Johnson, C. E. Rankin, G. B. Hoyt, C. H. Monroe, J. L. Knight, W. H. Neal, T. J. Mitchell, J. H. Meek, T. M. McBryde, J. W. Mann, A. B. Reese, J. H. Carson, F. E. Fowlkes, H. A. Dishough, J. G. Conoly, W. N. Mebane, A. C. Fairley, M. S. Kennedy, R. F. Mayfield, E. C. McCaskill, L. H. Patterson, and W. A. Dumas, chairman. Upon arrival at Guilford, the delegation was taken to the college in cars and rooms were there assigned to them.

THE CONFERENCES.
At 8 p.m. the opening session was held in the college auditorium in Memorial Hall, and was led by Mr. E. G. Wilson. After cordial speeches of welcome from President Newlin and Mr. Farrell, Budd, president of the Guilford Y. M. C. A., and a short speech by Mr. Wilson on the purposes of the conference, Dr. Poteat, of Wake Forest College, made the opening address of the session. In this address, Dr. Poteat discussed the program of action proposed by Christ, and developed the point that Christ was more concerned with conduct than opinions.

At the second meeting on Friday morning, the study of Dr. W. D. Weatherford’s book, “Introducing Men to Christ,” was taken up, this study being led by Dr. Weatherford in person. At 9:15 the college chapel service was held, and immediately following this, Dr. W. D. Weatherford addressed the conference on the modern false conceptions of the Bible and the purpose of Bible study. Following this, Mr. J. J. King, secretary of the A. & M. Association, discussed the courses of Bible study. Mr. F. C. Boushall, secretary of the U. of N. C. Y. M. C. A., discussed “Bible Study as a Working Force in College Life.” In the afternoon session, Dr. Weatherford dealt with the subject of the conduct of association meetings, and Mr. Wilson outlined the proper organization of our association's finances. The training of men for the work was then taken up by Dr. Weatherford. “The Bible In Modern Life” was the subject for the evening session, which met at 7:30 p.m. Dr. Neal L. Anderson, of Winston-Salem, handled this topic.

The conference was opened on Saturday morning with an address by Dr. Weatherford on “Personal Relationships.” The missionary department work of the Y. M. C. A. was then presented by Mr. R. W. Barnett, of Hang Chow, China. At the afternoon session, the problems which are to be met with in work in country districts were discussed.by Dr. Weatherford, while college deputation work was presented by Mr. Ramsour. This session was closed with an address by Mr. Wilson on “Y. M. C. A. Work as a Life Work.”

At the 7:30 p.m. session, Mr. Barnett outlined the Y. M. C. A. work in China. On Sunday morning, the regular lesson study in “Introducing Men to Christ” was led by Dr. Weatherford. The conference then adjourned to join the college students in their Sunday School services. Dr. Harper, of Elon College, made the address here, his subject being “The Preparation of a Sunday School Teacher.”

Mr. Ramsour, at the afternoon session, presented the work of the Volunteer Movement. The conference was brought to a most successful close at the evening church services, at which Mr. Wilson took as his subject, “The Life of Christ” and outlined the requisites for a Christlike life. An impressive feature of the conference was the forming of the Y. M. C. A. circle and the singing of the association song, closing the conference.

In addition to the regular meetings of the conference, group meetings of members of the Volunteer Bands, the Y. M. C. A. Presidents, and the Bible Study teachers for specific study of problems of this work were held at the conclusion of each night session of the conference. Various groups and delegation prayer meetings were also held at times. At one of the meetings of the Davidson delegation, E. P. J. Mitchell was elected delegation representative, with A. B. Reese as alternate, to meet with the other representatives to arrange plans for next year's conference and for the Blue Ridge conference in June. The complete plans for these will be announced later. Invitations for the 1916 conference were tendered by Carolina, A. & M., Wake Forest, and Catawba.

Of all the delegations at the conference, Davidson's was the largest, with twenty-seven men. Trinity was next with fifteen, and Wake Forest, Elon, and A. & M. each had twelve. In all, fifteen colleges and preparatory schools of the state were represented, at least 110 delegates being present.

CONFERENCE ATHLETICS.

An interesting phase of the conference was the athletic program. At 4 p.m. Friday afternoon, Wake Forest met Davidson in a basketball game, in which Davidson was the easy winner. During the first half, the D. C. quintette were unable to locate the basket, though they had the ball in their possession the majority of the time. The whistle sounded with the score 7 to 4 in Wake Forest’s favor. Davidson started the second half with a rush and reversed the count, piling up an overwhelming 16 to 8 score. Superior teamwork and passing made the victory possible. They were immediately challenged by Trinity, and the conference championship game was played on Saturday afternoon. Trinity put up a much harder fight than Wake Forest had done, though they went down to defeat by a larger score, 26 to 12. Davidson had no trouble in finding the ring during (Continued on page 4)

Davidson “Pep” in Evidence.

Davidson opened its football season in Lexington, Va., Saturday, September 28, holding the strong Blue and White aggregation to a 19 to 0 score. The game was not characterized by any sensational plays, but Davidson's plucky fight from the blowing of the first whistle to the last down was the outstanding feature of the game. Although greatly outweighed, the Red and Black never once ceased fighting, and in spite of the odds against them played with a determination that brought praise from all sides. Never once during the entire game was time called for them. This was the first game of the season for both teams. Washington and Lee has an abundance of good material, and Coach Elcock will doubtless develop a team equal in strength to his unbeaten eleven of last season.

In the opening quarter, Washington and Lee defended the west goal. By steady line bucks but without sensational gains, the Generals marched up the field, and the quarter ended with the ball on Davidson's 15-yard line. In the second quarter, Washington and Lee gained 5 yards on a series of line bucks. In an attempted end run, Fowle threw Barrett in a pretty open tackle for 5 yards. The Generals failed in a placement kick, the ball barely rolling outside, Davidson's ball on the 1-yard line. Walker’s punt was blocked and Young, recovering, crossed the line for the first touchdown. Young kicked goal. The third quarter passed with slow gains through the line, and the ball was in the hands of the Generals when the whistle blew.

The fourth quarter marked Washington and Lee's sensational gains. Barrett ran for a gain of 43 yards through the line, and “Cy” Young circled the end for a gain of 22 more. On the following line buck, Sorrell crossed the goal for the second touchdown. Davidson received the kickoff and failing to gain, Walker punted. Sorrell fumbled the punt and King recovered. Fowle gained 7 around left and the whistle blew.

For Davidson, the work of Walker, Laird, and Black in the backfield, and White, Younger, and Walker, R., in the line was good. The whole team fought during the entire period with the old-time Davidson “pep” and showed no indication at any time of letting up in the struggle. For Washington and Lee, Young, Shultz, and Sorrell did the stellar work.

Lineup:
Washington and Lee - Position - Davidson
Graham - left end - Walker
Shultz - left tackle - McKeithan
Bryan - left guard - Grey
Pierotti - center - White
Dingwall - right guard - Savage
Tonkin - right tackle - Miller
Harris - right end - Younger
Cromwell - quarterback - Keesler
Young - left half - Black
Barrett - right half - Walker
Sorrell - fullback - Laird

At a recent meeting, the Ministerial Band elected R. H. Ratchford as vice-president, to take the place of E. H. Hamilton, who did not return to college.