The SPRING GOLF TOURNAMENT. | FINE LYCEUM ATTRACTION

With the near approach of spring, there arises in the breasts of all a desire to get out of doors,
and this call or desire comes to no one so strongly as it comes to the golfer. Hence, the young
but fast-improving Davidson course is every afternoon crowded with the lovers of golf. The interest in the game here is
increased, however, by other causes than the excellent weather conditions of the past few days. One of these is the
approach of the time for the spring tournament. It will be remembered that the winter tournament had to be postponed
on account of the unfavorable weather conditions. The club is, however, making definite arrangements for a spring tournament. Yet, since
the new holes will not be complete until about April 1, it was thought best to postpone the tournament until
near the latter part of April or the 1st of May. The addition of the new holes will be a
vast improvement, and the additional time will give the golfers an opportunity to recover from the lack of practice during
the winter. At a meeting of the club on Thursday of last week, it was decided to allow students to
join the club for three dollars for the rest of the term. The rule of five dollars as a membership
fee will not go into effect until next year.

INTERESTING Y. M. C. A. MEETING HELD

Last Thursday night, an unusually interesting Y. M. C. A. meeting was held. The first of a series of Life
Work meetings was led by Messrs. Roy Perry and L. A. Mullen. In short, snappy talks, these men showed clearly
how the profession of law needs upright, Christian men to help raise the standard of law as well as other
professions. It is very interesting to hear men uphold the profession which they have chosen as their life work, and
it is hoped that large audiences will greet the next speakers.

CAMPUS NOTES.

“Ed” Carter, who was successfully operated on for appendicitis at St. Leo's Hospital, Greensboro, is expected to return to college
within the next few days. G. Somerville has left for his home in Virginia on account of illness. Before returning
to Davidson, he will attend the Mott meetings at Chapel Hill. Somerville was recently elected president of the local Association
for 1915-16. Tom Misenheimer is still confined at his home in Charlotte, but his condition is much improved, and it
is hoped he will soon be able to return to the Hill.

DEATH OF DR. R. F. SMITH.

The Davidson Student Body learned with deep sorrow of the death of Dr. R. F. Smith, of Easley, S. C.,
last Friday afternoon. Dr. Smith was the father of Frank Smith, of the Junior class. Announcement of the serious illness
of Dr. Smith was communicated to his son only a few days before his death. Promptly upon receipt of this
word, he left for his home. Dr. Smith’s illness, which was caused by pneumonia, was of short duration, and every
effort in his behalf was of no avail. As a mark of respect to him, the business establishments of Easley
closed during the afternoon of the funeral, and the students of the public schools attended in a body, the schools
also being closed. Dr. Smith was prominent in the life of his home city, being president of the Easley Loan
& Trust Company, president of the Easley Oil Mill, owner of the R. F. Smith Drug Company, and a director
in several of the other enterprises of that and other towns of the county. The sympathy of the entire college
student body goes out to his family in their bereavement and great loss, and especially to his sons, who have
taken such an active and prominent part in the student life of Davidson.

LAST FRIDAY NIGHT

A military spirit, not as comprehensive and as dangerous, however, as that which is so much in evidence among the
warring European nations, gripped a large and appreciative audience of Davidson students last Friday night as they watched the excellent
performance of the “Military Girls.” From the time that they appeared on the stage as a drum corps with the
martial air and step of a soldier regiment until they rendered the closing number, “Dixie,” on the orchestra, there was
not a lull in the performance. Orchestra selections, humorous songs, violin solos, and readings constituted the greater part of the
evening’s program. It is a universal verdict that the orchestra selections of the evening would measure up to any ever
given at Lyceum attractions at Davidson. The humorous songs, in which each of the six leading characters in turn took
a part, were generously applauded. The support given to this entertainment by the student body will make it possible for
the manager ofthe Lyceum Course to give at least two more attractions this spring. The next number, a witty, humorous
entertainment by a skillful cartoonist, will be given, if at all possible, during Junior Speaking.

TWO SERIES OF ADDRESSES PLANNED

The Y. M. C. A. announces two very interesting series of addresses for the next two months. One of the
series is called “The Fundamentals.” The other will be a “Life Work Series.” The series on the Fundamentals will be
as follows:
February 11—Who Is Jesus Christ?
March 4—What It Means To Be a Christian.
March 18—What Is Prayer?
April 8—The Foreign Mission Field.

The series of Life Work talks will be:
February 25—Business.
March 11—Medicine.
March 25—The Ministry.

DAY OF PRAYER TO BE OBSERVED AT DAVIDSON

The day of prayer for American schools and colleges will be observed at Davidson, Sunday, February 28. Dr. Richards has
invited Rev. R. T. Coit, a Davidson alumnus and missionary to Korea, to speak at the evening service that day.
Mr. Coit was one of the leading men of the college when he was here, being prominent in every activity
and one of the most popular men among his fellow students that has ever been here. The Y. M. C.
A. is endeavoring to secure a speaker for two vesper services on the Friday and Saturday preceding this Sunday.

FINAL ATTENDANCE RECORD OF BIBLE CLASSES

The Voluntary Bible Study classes closed February 1, when the Mission Study Classes opened. Two classes had an attendance of
100 percent for the whole term. The following are the respective averages for the whole term:

Leader. Percentage.
Scarborough .. .. .. .. .. 100
Patrick .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 100
McGeachy .. .. .. .. .. .. 95
Somerville .. .. .. .. .. .. 94.6
McIlwaine .. .. .. .. .. .. 94
Williams, J. P. .. .. .. .. .. 91
Patton .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 87
Price, F. W. .. .. .. .. .. .. 86
Gilchrist .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 85
Johnson, N. .. .. .. .. .. .. 80
Johnston, T. P. .. .. .. .. .. 73
Sparrow .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 65
Dr. Arbuckle .. .. .. .. .. .. 63
Dr. McConnell .. .. .. .. .. 62
Gibbs .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 60

General average for all classes .. 82

It is with deep regret that Davidson learns of the death of the infant daughter of Rev. C. S. Crane,
of the Congo Mission.

DAVIDSONIAN. February 10, 1915

ALUMNI NOTES

Rev. Samuel L. Wilson, '76, died on November 7, 1914, at his home in Woodruff, S. C. Mr. Wilson was
born in 1851, and has been actively engaged as a minister for over twenty-five years.

Rev. R. M. Stimson, ’08, was married December 8 to Miss Helen Easley, of South Boston, Va.

T. P. Way, ‘10, is in business at Miami, Fla.

J. K. Forman, ’11, has a responsible position with the Presbyterian Committee of Publication, Richmond, Va.

D. T. Caldwell, ’14, is at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.

H. McEwen, '14, is principal of the high school at Burlington, N. C.

M. Graham, ex-'17, is at Southwestern Presbyterian University, Clarksville, Tenn.

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL FIRE INSURANCE

Something Good to Drink? You will find it at our Fountain. Complete Line of Drugs, Stationery, Fountain Pens
Jetton Drug Co. Phone 7

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

When in Charlotte, it’s the New Hotel Central UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT Extensive Improvements

Soda, Cigars, and Tobaccos, Candy, Toilet Preparations Prescriptions Our Specialty
WELCOME
White Drug Co. “The Rexall Store”

While in Charlotte visit TATE’S BARBER SHOP The Best Work By Experienced Barbers EAST TRADE ST.

Brains at the expense of the body, paradoxically, shows lack of gray matter. No man is so busy that he
cannot give a few minutes each day to a little exercise. A pulley weight rigged up in your room will
do wonders to strengthen you, make you feel better, and increase your efficiency. Complete Equipment for Basket Ball, Foot Ball,
Base Ball, Golf, Tennis, Track and Field. Our catalogue will give you many ideas you never thought of, and show
you how simple it is to derive pleasure from your exercising. A postal will bring this catalogue.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Give your Shoe Repair Work To W. A. JOHNSON Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Do You Want the Best 5c Cigar in town? If so, try the TURABO. A Cigar Without an Equal
The Davidson Drug Company
