id The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

Editorial Board
P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

The Staff
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford
W. L. Law, Jr.

Reporters
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods
W. A. Dumas
J. B. Woods
L. A. Crawford

Management
J. H. Carson....... Business Manager
W.H. Neal Assistant Managers.
J. C. Paisley

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

NEGLECTED OPPORTUNITIES.

In the larger colleges and universities, it is not unusual for a man to be enrolled for four years and not be known personally to any member of the faculty. The only time that he has the opportunity to get even a glimpse of the more human side of the ones who meet him for the different classes is during the formal receptions, which receptions are not conducive to extreme friendliness.

In comparison, we know that at Davidson, every man is cordially welcomed into the different homes of the faculty, and what is more important, he is made to feel “at home.” In innumerable ways, they have shown that their doors are wide open to the students and that they are glad to know them. And not only is this true of the members of the faculty, but there are many homes in Davidson which are not strictly connected with the college, but where students may always find a hearty welcome.

Students are constantly changing from year to year, and the man who knows everyone on the campus today will be almost a total stranger five years from now if he comes back to visit the college. But those men who have lived outside of the narrow boundary of the campus and have had wider interests than just among their fellow students—when they return, they find a great number of their friends still at Davidson, and their return really means something to them.

Has there not grown up within the last few years a sentiment that to visit the homes of the faculty and of the people of the town—and to really make friends there—that this is not a part of the student’s life at Davidson? We are sure that no one will regret this more than the members of the faculty themselves—and probably in later years, every man who follows this course will regret the opportunity he has neglected to visit the homes of the faculty members and to know intimately those who are first “Men” and afterwards, “Professors.”

MID-TERM REPORTS.

The mid-term reports have gone the rounds. They have been carefully scrutinized by anxious mothers and fathers and interested uncles and aunts; not to speak of many younger brothers and sisters, who will gently and kindly refer at Christmas time to the comments of the various professors, that the work “is very low and unsatisfactory” and of course not forgetting the exact number of professors who made these statements.

These reports have come back to us to show us that the work which has been done has been satisfactory or in some cases, to show us that there is need to brace up and put every ounce of energy that we can into the final few weeks before the Christmas examinations.

These reports are simply intended as an aid to the student and the parents in finding the opinion of the professors, and they are not a permanent record. There is not even a record of them kept in the office.

The Davidsonian, November 24, 1915

TROY MOOSE
Official Photographer for
“Quips & Cranks”

W. G. MORRISON
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Premier Carrier of the SouthOne should be discouraged because of an unsatisfactory report. If it is good, it should be an encouragement, and if it is not good, it should be an added incentive to work harder.

THE COLLEGE WATER SUPPLY.
The scarcity of water at the beginning of the term made it evident that the six bored wells from which the college water supply has been drawn are insufficient for present needs, and as a result, work was promptly begun on the sinking of four new wells. On account of striking rock, one of these had to be abandoned, but the other three are giving very satisfactory service. Two or three more wells will be driven in the near future so as to obviate any possibility of an exhaustion of the water supply. The present supply pipe from the wells to the college, which is too small for the increased demand upon it, will be replaced by a four-inch main running from the pumping station to the site selected for the new tank tower which the college is expecting to erect in the near future. These changes will mean much to the student body and will assure permanent efficiency in the water supply.

The college water has been noted for its purity and for the good report of it made by the State Laboratory of Hygiene at Raleigh, to which the college is required to send samples of its drinking water every month according to state law. Recently there has been some air in the water as is noticeable in its appearance. The latest styles in Schloss Clothes can be seen at Brown-Knox Mercantile Company.

NEW DEBATERS.
Miss Shaw, the college librarian, has collected several books pertaining to Public Speaking and Debating, and has them ready for the use of inexperienced debaters and speakers. These books are to go out under the same regulations as reference material and may be studied within the debating room at any time. The Freshmen are especially urged to take advantage of this splendid collection.

Dr. Donald T. Rankin (class 1909) was a visitor recently, after six years of absence. He graduated from the Homeopathic Medical College of N.Y. in 1914, and has been since that time connected with the Homeopathic Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pa.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.
On account of the Senior Oratoricals this week, there will be no literary society meeting Saturday evening. The program for Monday morning is as follows:

Phi Society: Berryhill, Coachman, Childs, Campbell, R. G. Finley, Carson, Mountcastle, Morris, D. J. McKeithan, Mann, Payne.

Eu. Society: Fountain, Frierson, George, Gilbert, W. A. Hall, D. V. Hudson, Jinkins, Edgerton, Hoyt.

STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches, and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.

C. C. STIEFF
219 S Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Opposite Academy of Music
Established 1842

SANITARY BARBER SHOP
Uses Clean Towels, Sharp Razors
BEST ATTENTION

STUDENTS:
For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING, get quotations from

Brady Printing Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Davidson, North Carolina

THOROUGH COURSES
Well Equipped Laboratories

Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them looking new—6 Suits for $1.00. If you are not a member, see our representatives, purchase a ticket at once, and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.

THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor

BIG, WARM, COZY—Good Looking Roll Collars
ATHLETIC SWEATER COATS
Full Stock Just Received

The Commissary No. 2