The DAVIDSONIAN. February 10, 1915

You will add to your pleasure; you will add to the good things you get out of this life if
you learn the lesson of Wise Buying. The wise buyer buys from M. H. Goodrum & Co. Dealers in General
Merchandise.

SCOFIELD'S 44 YEARS ON SAME CORNER
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
Cold Drinks, Ice Cream, Fruits, Confectioneries, and other good “Eats”
SCOFIELD'S

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service of Spring’s smartest styles in Custom Tailored Clothes for young men---priced to suit every purse, at
the shop of L.A. Mullen
Representing The Storrs-Schaefer Co. Cincinnati.

REMEMBER
On Monday morning to put your laundry out, your name on it and mark it for us:
Charlotte Steam Laundry
W. Y. SAYAD, Agt.
No. 7 Chambers, First Floor North Wing

The Ideal Piano—plus the ability to play!
Anyone can sit down at this wonderful instrument and play, not merely the notes, but add the expression which makes
it real music! More pianos are being exchanged for STIEFF Player Pianos. May we tell you the details of our
liberal plan by which you can own a player-piano? (Your old piano taken at a liberal allowance.)
STIEFF
Write for Catalogue.
Charlotte, N. C.

Full Value in Regals
Our new line of 1915 Spring smart styles are now in. Be careful not to pay too much or too
little for your shoes. Buy Regals and you touch the high mark in style and the low mark in price—value
considered. We have them in all leathers and all the new modified English Rubber Soles, Leather Tip a specialty. Prices,
$4.00, $4.50, $5.00
Armour Bros. & Thompson

Have Your Picture made in your own home, and have it made right. ROY MOOSE, Photographer, of Greensboro, N. C.
does that kind of work.
Wm. E. Williams, Agt.

When in Charlotte always stop at HOTEL STONEWALL

ALUMNUS RETURNS FROM KOREA
Mr. J. R. Parker, who was graduated from Davidson in ‘08, and took his M.A. the following year, has returned
from Kunsan, Korea. Mr. Parker is also a graduate of the Union Theological Seminary, of Richmond, Va. He went out
to Korea in May, 1912, where he began studying the language with a view to doing evangelistic and Sunday school
work. He was forced to come home on account of his wife's health. The malaria fever, which is very prevalent
in parts of Korea, attacked Mrs. Parker shortly after going out to Korea. After fighting the disease for two years
without success, she and Mr. Parker returned to America a short time ago. Everyone in Davidson will be delighted to
know that Mr. Parker and his family will make their home in the beautiful mountain country of Southwest Virginia. He
has accepted the position of stated supply for Giles County, his headquarters being at Parisburg, Virginia. Mr. Parker had just
learned the Korean language and was beginning to preach some. It is very unfortunate that he should have to give
up his work so soon, and he can be assured that the love and sympathy of the people of Davidson
is extended to him in his trouble. Mr. J. R. Parker is a brother of Mr. W. P. Parker, who
is supported in Korea bythe Davidson students.

DR. CAPEN VISITS DAVIDSON.

On Thursday, February 4, Dr. S. P. Capen, a specialist in higher education for the U.S. Bureau of Education, visited
Davidson. Dr. Capen was secured by the State of North Carolina to make a tour of its colleges, in which
he is to determine a fair rating of the work being done by them. In this way, the N.C. Board
of Education can better pass upon the diplomas of graduates who apply for positions as teachers, when they know the
relative status of the various North Carolina colleges. Dr. Capen seemed well pleased with Davidson and spoke highly of the
library and the records of the college.

Dr. Lynn R. Walker has accepted a call to the First church of Morristown, Tenn.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Ex-President Watt has been delivering a number of very interesting lectures at Cabell Hall before an audience of 1,500, composed
mostly of students. His subject was, “The Presidency: Its Duties, Its Powers, Its Responsibilities, and Its Limitations.”

Dr. Smith has announced that a compulsory physical training course will be started in 1915. A compulsory two-year lecture course
on hygiene once a week will be given. A course of compulsory physical exercise will occupy two hours each week
for the first year. No man unable to swim will receive his diploma at the end of his college career,
unless he shows that he is physically unfit.

Vedder Sitton, one of Clemson's old football and baseball stars, will coach the baseball team this Spring. Sitton has played
with Atlanta, Nashville, Jacksonville, Cleveland, and Providence as a pitcher, and knows all the ins and outs of the game.
The Tigers are expected to put out one of the best teams in years.

The students of the University of S.C. have appointed a committee to petition the State Legislature for money to build
a fence around their athletic field, as otherwise the baseball team will not make expenses this spring.

Washington and Lee and Randolph-Macon Woman's College have decided to build a summer cottage at Black Mountain, N.C., where the
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. conferences are held each summer. The cost is estimated at $1,000.

The Florida basketball team was defeated by the Jacksonville Y.M.C.A. to the tune of 35 to 24. The first half
was Florida's, but the Jacksonville boys braced in the last half and played rings around Florida.

His Davidson friends sympathize with Mr. Augustus Leazar, class of 1911, in the death of his sister, Miss Carrie Leazar.

Harry F. Shaw, ex-'17, is teaching near Wilmington, N.C.

PRINTING

Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, etc., promptly and correctly executed.

A. R. HOWLAND, Local Representative
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor, Edison and Columbia Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of
copies of Sheet Music.

213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SPRING IS COMING

The time to get your REPAIR WORK AND BUILDING DONE

C. B. MOONEY
General Contractor

Rubber Stamps ——— for all purposes ——— Printed Matter of All Descriptions

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N.C.
Oldest established house on the Hill

L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Hotel Clayton

The one best place to stop while in Charlotte.

EUROPEAN PLAN
CAFE IN CONNECTION
