w The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams....... Assistant Editor
P. D. Patrick....... Business Manager
W. G. Somerville... Assistant Manager

STAFF:
J. H. Carson
Norman Johnson
J. G. Patton
L. W. Kluttz
G. W. Gignilliat
W. A. McIlwaine

Reporters’ STAFF:
T. D. Sparrow
W. H. Neal
Latta Law
K. H. Hamilton
T. J. Mitchell
R. H. Ratchford
P. B. Price
D. V. Hudson

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion and comment on all matters of current interest. Communications must be signed.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

THE THURSDAY GAME.

The only reason that basketball has not played a more prominent part in Davidson athletics in the past has been
the lack of floor space and equipment. We have not suffered for lack of material to make winning teams. The
main obstacle at Davidson is generally money, not men, and the men always go to the limit of the money.
This year, with an improvement in the basketball floor, more interest has been taken in the indoor game. The first
trip of the team was not entirely successful from the standpoint of games won, but every game was hotly and
closely contested, and a good start was made. Another trip is being planned in the near future.

Tomorrow we face a strong opponent on our own floor. This is the first game with an outside team that
we have had here for three years. The Davidson team has worked hard to round into shape, and we owe
it to them as well as to the “Davidson Spirit” to attend this game and give it the whole-hearted and
enthusiastic support which we give the football and baseball teams. Let us have a “triple alliance” of basketball, football, and
baseball victories this year.

LIFE WORK.

According to the statistics gathered by The Davidsonian last fall, 158 of the students enrolled at Davidson have decided what
calling or profession they expect to enter. The remaining 150 have either not decided or are delaying a definite decision.
When none of the professions were crowded and a man of ordinarily good education could be successful in most any
one, the question of a young man’s life work was not as perplexing as it is today. Every modern field
of work is calling only for the best. This increases the importance of carefully weighing the opportunities of the various
callings and their different demands upon the powers and talents that a man may possess.

The series that is now beginning in the Y. M. C. A. Thursday night meetings should therefore be of special
interest to every man. Each of the leading subjects of life work will be taken up and discussed briefly by
fellow students who have definitely chosen their life work. In this way the claims of law, medicine, teaching, business, ministry,
will be laid before us, and the opportunities for Christian service in each shown. Here is a great opportunity. Let
us attend the meetings and be better prepared to face the eternal question of young American manhood: “What am I
to do after college? Where can I best put my life?”

The DAVIDSONIAN. February 3, 1915

ARE YOU GUILTY?

One of the most maddening things to everyone except the guilty party, is the growing frequency with which items are
being clipped from the newspapers in the reading room. We would venture to assert that hardly twenty men are ever
guilty of such a breach of library courtesy, but nevertheless these twenty are constantly bringing upon themselves any but benevolent
thoughts of the remaining users of the reading room, and it is for them that these words are meant.

It may be only a local item from a home newspaper, or it may be an important half-column of social
or athletic news—the mere absence of it from the paper makes all the following readers anxious to know what is
missing, besides depriving some of something that may have been of special interest or value to them. Let us correct
this evil ourselves, and not make necessary the imposition of a library rule which will take from the readingroom for
a day any paper which has been clipped the day before.

SAYAD RECEIVES GOOD NEWS.

For some time Davidson's Persian student, William Sayad, has been in terrible suspense in regard to the safety of his
mother and relatives in his hometown of Urumiah, Persia, on account of the raid upon that place by the fierce
Kurds from the surrounding mountains, who were in conjunction with the Turks. The Kurds, being Mohammedans, are especially hostile to
Christians, and Sayad feared that all his relatives had been massacred by them; but no definite news could be obtained.
The following telegram from Secretary Bevan brought great relief: “From Consul at Tabriz indicates Americans at Urumiah safe and native
Christians unmolested.” A later telegram from a cousin of Sayad in New England states that all his people are safe
in Tiflis, Russia. The Davidson student body deeply sympathized with Sayad in his suspense and is happy as well as
he over the good news.

NEW “MOVIE” FEATURES.

Manager Shaw, of the baseball team, and Manager Faw, of the Annual, are planning many new features for the more
efficient operation of the “movies,” which, in the future, will be open every Tuesday and Saturday night. As an inducement
to scholarship among the students of the Davidson public schools, a free ticket to the Saturday night show will be
given each week to that student of each grade who does the best work during the preceding week. A new
film company has been given the contract for furnishing all the films used during the remainder of the year, which,
as in the past, will be of the best. If possible, at least one film showing scenes from the European
war will be presented each week.

FUTURE LAWYERS TO ADDRESS Y. M. C. A.

A new series of Life Work Topics has been arranged for the regular Thursday night Y. M. C. A. meetings.
The first of this series will be “The Law.” Next Thursday night Messrs. Mullen and Perry will discuss “The Law”
as a life work and the opportunities in it of Christian service.

WEEK’S LITERARY SOCIETY SCHEDULE

The Literary Society schedule is as follows:

Debate, February 6, Philanthropic Society; affirmative, Grey, Weber, Hart, Carson, and Rowan; negative, Hunter, Knox, Henderson, Clary, and Craig, H.
B. Eumenean Society; affirmative, Hamilton, Hobson, and Hudson, D. V.; negative, Hoyt, Humphrey, Johnson, N., and Johnson, W. A.

Orations and Declamations, February 8; Philanthropic Society; Stone, Farrior, Rourk, Howland, McBride, J. L., Finley, A. G., Morrison, and Witt.

CUSHMAN STUDIO.

Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

WANT ADS.

RATES: One time, 5c. a line. The minimum charge is the price for two lines.

Visit the New Barber Shop
E. R. JENKS - Proprietor

Have Your Suit Cleaned and Pressed at the Shop of Quality. Our personal attention given to all work and all
work guaranteed.
Mahew Pressing Club
Alexander & Mayberry, Props.

BACK the Advertisers who are backing us.

JUNIOR SPEECHES and work carefully typewritten. C. Cumming.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

WANTED—To hire you an auto. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

One Hundred Cents on the Dollar. That is what every Equitable policy is worth at Maturity—whether a Death Claim or
an Endowment. Hence Equitable policies are popularly known as THE GOVERNMENT BONDS OF LIFE INSURANCE.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.
J. P. QUARELS, Mgr., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Full Faculty: Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

SAVE MONEY
We are giving 10% discount on our entire line of Clothing, Dry Goods, and Notions. The swellest styles of the
season. See us before you buy.
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

If it’s anything in GROCERIES, FRUITS, and PRODUCE, IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE S. A. ELLIOTT Before You Buy.

EVERYTHING NEW AND FRESH. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.
L. A. ELLIOTT
Next door to White Drug Co.
