The DAVIDSONIAN VOL 2. Davidson is Triumphant Over Emory Price and Smith Win Debate at Agnes Scott. At the Davidson-Emory
debate, held last Monday night in the chapel of Agnes Scott College, the Red and Black was carried to victory
by the Davidson team, F. W. Price and F. H. South. The subject was, “Resolved, ‘That an alliance of all
American countries should take the place of the Monroe Doctrine.” The vote stood three to two in favor of the
affirmative, and the victory was indeed a well-earned one.

When the team reached Atlanta they were met by a delegation from the Atlanta Alumni Association, and were taken in
automobiles through the finest residence districts of the city. On their return to the Ansley Hotel an informal luncheon was
given in their honor, at which nineteen Davidson men were present. There were a few brief addresses by both alumni
and visitors, and the team was much encouraged by such a demonstration of the “Davidson spirit.”

The debate began at 8:30, and long before that time the chapel was filled to overflowing, and much enthusiasm was
shown by the supporters of each college. The Agnes Scott student body, though supposedly neutral, gave Davidson a hearty welcome,
and the decision was a popular one. At the conclusion of the debate the victory for Davidson seemed assured, for
though Emory had the best team we have faced in years, Smith and Price were absolutely irresistible in their magnificent
rejoinders, and the Emory contingent was overwhelmed.

In opening the debate for the affirmative, F. W. Price, the first speaker, argued that an alliance of all the
American countries is more desirable than the Monroe Doctrine, and that it is practicable. He confined his speech to a
demonstration of the shortcomings of the present policy, proving it to be unjust to Latin America, to be a menace
to the friendly relations with those countries, and to be the possible cause of future complications. His argument was clear,
forceful, and logical, and at no time was it seriously endangered throughout the entire debate. He proved satisfactorily that the
United States is looked upon as domineering over American affairs, and for this reason is unpopular in the South American
countries.

The first speaker for the negative, Fred W. Flabree, of McRae, Ga., gave most of his speech to a history
of the Monroe Doctrine, proving its former success, all of which the affirmative easily admitted. He argued that such an
alliance would be the substitution of an iron-clad contract for a flexible policy, an unwise change.

F. H. Smith, the second speaker for Davidson, then took the floor, and, amid vociferous applause, rapidly pointed out the
error of the negative in so interpreting the question as to make the affirmative prove the practicability of initiation of
the Alliance. He pointed out that the question read that such an alliance should and would not take the place
of the Monroe Doctrine, and disclaimed any powers of discernment into the future legislative minds of South America. He continued
the affirmative defense in giving a history of similar successful alliances in America to prove the practicability of this one,
and proved that the alliance would substitute equality for meddlesomeness, would strengthen our position as a world power, and...

(Continued on page 4)

News and Happenings of the Week in Town Social and Personal Items About the Village People.

Mrs. and Miss Ellinwood will leave for Asheville Wednesday.

Dr. and Mrs. Dunn, of Camden, spent the weekend with Mrs. Minter.

Mrs. D. A. Miller is spending a week at Dr. W. J. Martin’s.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin left Tuesday for a visit to Charleston, S. C.

Rev. C. E. Raynal, of Statesville, gave the Book Lovers’ Club a delightful lecture on Ibsen, last Friday.

Miss Mary Anderson, of Winston Salem, will be the guest of Mrs. Arbuckle for a few days.

The Boys’ Missionary Band will meet with Mrs. P. W. Lingle on Saturday at 3:30 p.m.

Mrs. Currie will attend the inauguration of President Graham, of the University of North Carolina next week.

Mrs. Jas. V. Tait and Misses Ethel and Helen Tait, of Norfolk, Va., spent the weekend with Mrs. W. D.
Vinson.

Dr. H. E. McConnell, of Chester, S. C., was in town this week on a professional call.

Mrs. Wilson McConnell, who has been seriously ill for several weeks, is improving slowly. It has been necessary for Dr.
McConnell to cancel his engagement to speak at Concord and Cornelius.

Mrs. R. M. Wilson (nee Miss Bessie Knox of Davidson), of Berea, will speak to the ladies of the town
at the Presbyterian church, Thursday, afternoon at 4 o'clock.

Mr. John K. Caldwell is being put forward for mayor by his many friends. This will put two contestants in
the field, for Mr. O. Johnston has already announced his candidacy.

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Honig, of Philadelphia, Pa., were visitors here Monday. Mr. Honig came back to visit his
alma mater. He is remembered by a host of friends.

Dr. Lingle will give a lecture in Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock Friday evening on “Germany, At Peace and At
War.” This is a lecture which has drawn crowds at Concord, Salisbury, and Statesville. The proceeds will go to the
furnishing of the new hall.

A cement walk is needed very much on the east side of Main street. The college is ready to bear
its share of the expense if the town will do likewise, and the property owners north of Glasgow street will
then be able to extend the sidewalk in front of their homes.

William Sayad is preparing an illustrated lecture on Persia. He will give it first in Shearer Hall, and plans to
visit other towns during the summer. The recent disorders in Persia have brought disaster to many of his friends and
relatives. One of his uncles has been killed by the Kurds and all of his relatives...have been driven from Urumiah.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14, 1915. NO. 26

High Schools Hold Splendid Meet Here
Three Good Games In Base Ball Last Week
Winecoff Wins First Place, With Huntersville Second.

The second annual meet of the West Central Division of High Schools in the State was held here Friday and
Saturday. The delegates and contestants, numbering about one hundred and fifty, representing fifteen of the High Schools in the division,
began arriving Friday afternoon, and some came that night and the following morning. The reception committee had made arrangements for
the entertainment of the visitors at the homes of the people of the town, and all of them report a
pleasant stay.

Friday night at 8 o'clock the contests in Spelling, Composition, Declamation, and Recitation, were held in the Latin room, the
Bible room, in Shearer Hall, and in the Phi and Eu halls respectively.

The Spelling Contest.
There were ten contestants in the spelling contest. Instead of the old-fashioned spelling “bee,” one hundred words were read out
and written by the contestants. When the papers were corrected it was found that there were three entrants who had
missed only one word each. After a second and third trial Mr. Carl Wilkinson, of the Denver High School, was
declared winner. Miss Anne Belle Goodman, of the Winecoff High School, won second place, and Mr. Rufus Koontz, of the
Cooleemee High School, came third. Professor Cummins presided during the contest, and Misses Johnson and Withers assisted him as judges.

The Composition Contest.
In the composition contest there were six contestants who expected to compete for the prize. Three of this number were
unable to enter the contest. Those who did enter were: Miss Helen Eades, from Woodleaf High School; Miss Maud Cooke,
of the Winecoff High School; and Mr. Bailey Bost, of Rocky River. The judges were Mr. Hood, Miss Payne, and
Mr. Gignilliat. The subject selected by the judges was a character sketch of Rip Van Winkle. All the compositions were
excellent and well written. The winner of the medal was Miss Maude Cooke, of Winecoff High School.

Preliminary Recitations.
The Preliminary Recitation Contest was held in the Eumenean hall. The meeting was called to order by C. M. Gibbs,
and Professor Willis, of Wake High School, presided. The judges were Professors J. McGrew and J. L. Douglas. Nine young
ladies entered this contest and six of the number were selected to compete in the finals on Saturday night. The
winners were Misses Ella Armstrong, of Belmont; Margaret Alexander, of Huntersville; Ethel Hudson, of Rocky River; Ruby Poole, of Stony
Point; Mattie Murphy, of Winecoff; and Elizabeth Harding, of Farmington. This exercise was held before a large and appreciative audience,
and was greatly enjoyed by all.

Preliminary Declamations.
Much enthusiasm and rivalry was displayed in the preliminary declamation contest, which was held in the Philanthropic hall, before a
large number of interested listeners. There were ten contestants, six of whom were given “reps,” and the final contest was
held Saturday night in Shearer Hall. The six men (Continued on page 4)

Davidson Defeats Hornets.
Davidson defeated the Charlotte Hornets in the fourth game of the season Thursday afternoon by the score of 8 to
7. The game was highly interesting, not to say exciting, from beginning to end, the issues being undetermined until Davidson
had her chance in the last half of the ninth. Charlotte scored one run in the initial inning. Baker, first
man up, doubled, was sacrificed around by Dunborrow, and scored later on Emery's sacrifice. The Red and Black nine registered
three in their half of the same inning. Christenbury hit the first ball pitched for a single and scored later
when Stough singled. Both Stough and Alford scored later on Groome’s smashing double to left. Both teams scored four runs
in the sixth frame. The Hornets’ runs in that inning were due to three bases on balls, an error, a
sacrifice and a single by Simms, who was sent in to hit for Darlington. The Presbyterians’ next runs came when
Alford singled, Stough walked, and both Groome and Brown drew a free pass to the initial sack. Ansley doubled, Black
singled and four runs were counted. Charlotte scored two more in the ninth. Baker doubled, was sacrificed to second by
Dunborrow, and scored on a drive to right field fence by Munch for three bases. Munch scored later when Sheeran
singled. Sheeran stole second, and in doing so twisted his ankle so badly that he had to be carried from
the field. Hengeveld struck out Smith, retiring the side, the score a tie. Davidson came back in the last half
of the ninth strongly. Hengeveld singled, Christenbury repeated the performance, Summerville hit a grounder to the pitcher, who caught Hengeveld
at third. Alford singled, scoring Christenbury and ending the game, score 8 to 7. Hengeveld pitched a fine game for
the locals with the exception of the sixth inning, when he became a little wild. He allowed the Hornets only
7 hits and kept these well scattered. He also led the batters for the day, obtaining three hits out of
four trips to the plate. Darlington, who started the game on the rubber for Charlotte, was replaced in the sixth
by Going, a southpaw, but the latter was unable to control the Davidson hitters and was equally wild, giving three
passes in the sixth.

Score by innings:
R H E
Davidson 300 004 001— 8 9 2
Charlotte 100 004 002— 7 7 1
(Continued on page 3)

Events of the Week.
Tuesday, 13—Junior Soph Game.
Wednesday, 14—Senior Fresh Game.
Thursday, 15—Y. M. C. A. Meeting—Junior-Fresh Game.
Thursday, 15—U. of S. C., at Columbia.
Friday, 16—U. of S. C., at Columbia.
Saturday 17—Charlotte at Charlotte—Soph-Fresh Game.
Monday, 19—Field Day—Senior Junior Game.
Wednesday, 21—U. of Ga., at Charlotte—Soph Banquet.

New Hand Made Tennis Balls On Sale At Jetton Drug Co.
