i) The DAVIDSONIAN, October 20, 1915

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford
W. L. Law, Jr.

REPORTERS
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames
J. R. Woods
W. A. Dumas
J. B. Woods
A. Crawford

MANAGEMENT
J. H. Carson....... Business Manager
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

THE LIBRARY HABIT

We heard a Senior remark a few days ago, that if he was again beginning his college course, he would make it a strict rule of his work to spend a certain amount of his time each day in the library and reading room. This is by no means an exceptional case, but man after man will make this statement after four years, and it is worth our while to seriously consider the reasons why this is true.

The college has a well-equipped library, with an exceptionally well-selected number of books, and every condition would seem to be such as to induce men to use the privileges offered. But the library records show that a great number of men are not taking advantage of these opportunities, and like the present Senior class, many men will want to turn back and start anew, when they realize too late the mistake which has been made.

It is easy to make the mistake of putting off this reading until the years of the upper classes, and then to find the time so crowded with other things that no time can be found for extra reading. The habit should be formed in the first two years, and there will then be no difficulty about the last two years. Several books can be found in the library which, in a general way, will be a guide among the large number of books offered, and no better time can be spent than in reading one or more of these, so that the lines of reading followed may be those in which the reader has especial interest. It will be a good rule if each man will visit the library at certain intervals and see if he cannot find books there which interest him, and the information and pleasure obtained in this way will be worth as much as any one “ticket” offered in the regular course. As well, the “library habit” will be formed, which will be of service throughout life.

WILMINGTON CLUB

On Wednesday night, the 13th, the thirteen students from Wilmington organized a Wilmington Club for the double purpose of fellowship and desire to add something to the interest that the people of Wilmington have in Davidson College. W. C. Rourk was elected president; Jno. Thames, secretary; and Dalzel Sprunt, treasurer. A committee was appointed to make arrangements for a “feed” to be held in the near future.

CLASS BASKETBALL

On Monday afternoon the Freshmen were in turn defeated by the team, the score being 39 to 25. The Junior team, although light, has shown itself capable of holding its own against the others, and worked together well throughout. For the Juniors the stars were Young and Price, and for the Freshmen, Hall again made a good showing. Officers for the four teams have been elected.as follows: Senior, Hoyt, captain; Dumas, manager. Junior, Neshit, captain; Mattison, manager. Soph, D. Sprunt, captain; Hengeveld, manager. Freshmen, Hall, captain; Potts, manager.

SCHEDULE.
Thursday, October 21—Junior-Soph.
Monday, October 25—Senior-Junior, Soph-Fresh.
Thursday, October 28—Senior-Fresh.
Monday, November 1—Junior-Fresh, Senior-Soph.
Thursday, November 4—Junior-Soph.
Monday, November 8—Soph-Fresh, Senior-Junior.
Thursday, November 11—Senior-Fresh.
Monday, November 15—Senior-Soph, Junior-Fresh.
Thursday, November 18—Junior-Soph.
Monday, November 22—Senior-Junior, Soph-Fresh.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB.
The Orchestra is getting into shape rapidly now. It has been practicing hard for some time, and will be in condition soon to give a first-class concert. The Glee Club is also doing well. The material this year far exceeds any that has been out for some years, and it bids fair to develop into a Glee Club superior to any that has gone from these old walls. The Orchestra and Glee Club are planning to take a trip South some time next month. The date has not yet been decided on, but they are anticipating a very pleasant trip. They have secured a concert at Queens College for Thanksgiving night, which they are looking forward to with pleasure. Next March the Club takes its long trip. It will probably go towards Asheville, stopping along the way at several of the towns. There will be several concerts given on the “Hill” during the session.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.
Phi. Society, October 23—Affirmative: Hall, R. D., Fleming, Finley, A. G., Copeland, McCormick, McRae. Negative: Nimocks, Mallard, Rankin, Monroe, D. M., McLeod.
October 25—Declamations and Orations: Foreman, Foster, Grey, Fowle, Ratchford, Hall, F. P., Hart, Neal, W. C., Thames, McDonald, Pharr.
Eu. Society, October 23—Affirmative: Brown, A., Jones, R. C., Howard, W. B., Williams, J. P. Negative: Gillespie, T. F., Kennedy, M. S., Inman, A. M., Eikel, L. H.
October 25—Declamations and Orations: Hudson, G. A., Craig, A. R., Patton, J. G., Scott, H. A., Linfield, E. H., McCloy, S. T., Jones, W. M., Lawrence, W. H., Matthews, C. J.

The annual class basketball series began last Friday afternoon with a game between the Freshmen and the Seniors, in which the former were returned the victors. The game was close and exciting from start to finish and was featured by many brilliant plays. The stars for the Freshmen were Hall and Nimocks, and for the Seniors, Hoyt played an especially strong game.

Junior Hotel
H. DUNN
Central Interior Decorating Headquarters
Charlotte, N. C.
For Davidson Men

SWEATERS
Good, Warm, Cozy, Goodlooking, Roll Collar, Athletic Sweater Coats
FULL STOCK JUST RECEIVED
THE COMMISSARY

QUALITY FIRST
Eliminate future troubles by buying in the beginning the best piano. STIEFF PIANOS have everlasting durability, combined with rich tone and perfect action. Over five hundred Colleges, Schools, Churches and musicians use STIEFF PIANOS. Write for catalogue and prices.
219 S. Tryon St.
STIEFF
Charlotte, N. C.
Opposite Academy of Music
Established 1842

STUDENTS:
For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING, get quotations from The Sanitary Barber Shop. Uses Clean Towels, Sharp Razors, BEST ATTENTION. We will appreciate your business.

SPECIAL invitation to all.
Brady Printing Company
STATESVILLE, N. C.
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor

Davidson COLLEGE
Davidson, North Carolina
THOROUGH COURSES
Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN SCHLOSS CLOTHES CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

WHY!
Wear soiled and wrinkled clothes when Alexander will keep them Looking New---6 Suits for $1.00. If you are not a member see our representatives, purchase a ticket at once and fall in line. All tickets must be endorsed.
THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
R. L. ALEXANDER, Proprietor
A. MULLEN, Agent