The DAVIDSONIAN, January 27, 1915

WHAT THE ALUMNI SAY.

MR. NOLEN PRAISES DAVIDSON

"Has the Davidsonian gone broke? We have not seen a copy since before Christmas, and we miss it very much."
—Robt. L. McKinnon ('14).

"Have just read in the Davidsonian." —Capt. M. H. Bryde, Alumnus 1859.

"The first issue of The Davidsonian for this year came yesterday, much to my delight. To say the least, I
devoured every word of it and found the whole most delectable, indeed. Though I finally decide to cast my lot
with the Germans and join the Kaiser's forces, I simply must have The Davidsonian to peruse every week." —"Dr." Guthrie
('14).

"Am enclosing $1.00 for The Davidsonian, which is about the most welcome sheet that comes to the desk. It gives
me the best substitute for the actual campus life among the fellows—the real happiness of every week. Keep it up."
—T. C. Bales.

"I am quite sure that I am voicing the sentiments of all the alumni when I say that The Davidsonian
is one of the best things ever started at Davidson College, and is one of the best means of securing
a closer union of the alumni with the college." —Clifford F. Herrick ('12).

BASKETBALL TEAM MAKES GOOD SHOWING

The basketball team returned last Friday from a trip to Statesville, Salisbury, and Greensboro, where they played the respective Y.M.C.A.
teams. The team left the Hill last Tuesday for Statesville and engaged the Y.M.C.A. of that town that night. Davidson
clearly outclassed their opponents and the game ended 39 to 21 in Davidson's favor.

On Wednesday morning the team went to Salisbury from Statesville. In the game that night they were defeated, but the
game was so hotly contested that it was doubtful as to how the results would terminate, but it may truly
be said that a streak of luck broke against Davidson, and the game ended 39 to 38 in favor of
Salisbury.

The last game was played in Greensboro on Thursday night. The team was rather weary that night, having played the
two nights previous, and they were again defeated, but not until they had proved that they were worthy opponents. The
score was 39 to 16. The team was guided by Manager Al Reese in the absence of Captain Tom Somerville.
The following men went on the trip: Al Reese, manager, Hengerveld, Howell, Laird, Walker, R. B. Austin, Childs, Moore, Carson,
and Wood.

ELECTION OF BASEBALL CAPTAIN

Leslie Alford, of Chipley, Fla., was recently elected captain of the baseball team for this spring. Captain Alford was first
catcher on Varsity year before last and a good steady man to have behind the plate. He did not return
to Davidson after Christmas last year, and his absence was keenly felt by the Varsity last spring. This year Davidson
is expecting to put out a winning team, and with Bill Fetzer coaching and Alford field captain, the chances seem
bright indeed.

SPARROW ELECTED MANAGER

At a meeting of the Athletic Association held immediately preceding the Christmas holidays, T. D. Sparrow was elected manager of
the football team for the season of 1915. He succeeds Lex W. Kluttz, who for the past two years has
so admirably and successfully managed the affairs of the "Red and Black Machine." Mr. Sparrow, for the past season an
assistant manager, assumes the important and responsible duties of this office well qualified to make the team of 1915 an
efficient manager.

Presbyterian Standard article on Davidsonian, and as a result, I enclose $2.00 for subscription.

A number of well-grown trees which are rather old. The old buildings are well placed. Davidson has something that very
few colleges possess—a large, well-shaded campus. The buildings are of a pleasing type of architecture, and the general effect is
one of quiet dignity and beauty. Mr. Nolen's plan, if carried out, will add greatly to the attractiveness and usefulness
of the college grounds.

NOW to The Davidsonian
Only 50 cents for the remainder of the College year

SEE JOHN F. CALDWELL for FIRE INSURANCE

Come in and see our Full Line of Stationery. Physicians' Prescriptions a Specialty.Few colleges have, and that is a golf
course, and an attractive one it is, too. Another thing that I have never seen anywhere else is an outdoor
gymnasium, a distinctly Southern institution for January use, but I saw it in operation yesterday. In fact, I saw students
engaged in football, baseball, basketball, tennis, outdoor gymnasium, and running, a striking combination of sports for the middle of January,
and one that would not be possible north of here.”

I. M. REYNOLDS DIES AT HOME

Davidson men will be pained to hear of the death of I. M. Reynolds, of Wilmington, N.C. Reynolds was at
Davidson in the class of ‘10, but remained for only one year, sickness preventing a longer stay. He was an
excellent man, a hard-working, conscientious student, a thorough gentleman, and a true friend. He was preparing himself for the ministry.
After leaving Davidson he went to Wilmington, where he lived the rest of his life, amid a host of friends.
His last illness lasted about two years. Davidson men will feel a deep sympathy for those whom he has left.

EXCELLENT ADDRESS AT Y.M.C.A.

We are sales agents for Huyler’s Candies
Jetton Drug Co.
Phone 7

Before an unusually large audience at the regular Y.M.C.A. service last Thursday night, Rev. C.F. Raynal, of Statesville, delivered a
stirring address. Mr. Raynal was the first speaker on “The Fundamentals,” a new series of subjects which will be presented
before the Y.M.C.A. Mr. Raynal chose as his subject “The Existence of God,” and unfolded in a masterful address many
convincing and unanswerable arguments. Next Thursday the campaign for the Mission Study classes will be opened.

HOME OF DR. McCONNELL VISITED BY FIRE

Serious damage to the home of Dr. J. W. McConnell was averted on last Thursday just after supper by prompt
action in extinguishing a blaze on the roof. The fire was discovered before it had made any headway, and climbing
to the roof with buckets of water, passersby and several of the students who happened to be within call, aided
in quickly putting it out. Owing to the quick work, little excitement was caused and only a few shingles burned.

MEETING OF SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHERS HELD

Last Friday night the teachers of the Presbyterian Sunday school met at the home of Dr. Richards to discuss Sunday
school affairs and to consider some new plans for the work. The meeting was an enjoyable and interesting one.

JUNIOR SPEAKING POSTPONED

On account of the Layman’s Missionary Convention which will be held in Charlotte on February 16, 17, and 18, the
date for Junior Speaking has been changed from the usual date, in the week of Washington's birthday, to March 5
and 6.

When in Charlotte, it's the New Hotel Central UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT. Extensive Improvements

Stationery, Toilet Articles, Cigars and Soda
Kodaks and Kodak Supplies
Prescriptions Our Specialty
White Drug Co.
“The Rexall Store”

While in Charlotte visit TATE’S BARBER SHOP
The Best Work By Experienced Barbers
EAST TRADE ST.

Brains at the expense of the body, paradoxically, shows lack of gray matter. No man is so busy that he
cannot give a few minutes each day to a little exercise. Pulley weight rigged up in your room will do
wonders to strengthen you, make you feel better, and increase your efficiency. Complete Equipment for Basketball, Football, Baseball, Golf, Tennis,
Track and Field. Our catalogue will give you many ideas you never thought of, and show you how simple it
is to derive pleasure from your exercising. A postal will bring this catalogue.

A.G. Spalding & Bros.
L. A. MULLEN, Agent

Give your Shoe Repair Work to W. A. JOHNSON
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Cure That Cold With Coble’s Croup and Pneumonia Cure
For Sale by the Davidson Drug Company
