The DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 17, 1915. Vol. III.

Week of Prayer For Young Men
Opportunity Given for Davidson Students to Aid War Sufferers.

During this week, which is set apart by the Student Y. M. C. A.’s as a week of prayer for young men, it seems very fitting that the men of Davidson make a voluntary thank offering for the work of the Young Men's Christian Association among the men under arms and those in the hospitals and prisons of Europe. Mr. John R. Mott, Secretary of the World’s Student Christian Federation, makes the following appeal for this thank offering on the part of the students of this country:

“The needs and opportunities of our fellow students in the Christian Student Movements of Europe present an irresistible call to the students and professors of America. Never before has our help been so much needed and probably never again in all the coming years will there be such a demand made for our sympathy and practical co-operation. It is an opportunity for us to show the reality of our Christian faith and of our Christian love. I confess at times with sinking of heart that my solicitude in these days is not for the students of the lands now at war. They are stirred to the deepest depths and are placing themselves with all their power at the disposal of their nations and in the service of their ideals. Neither is my anxiety for the students of the neutral countries near the war theatre, for they have entered to a wonderful degree into fellowship with their fellow students in the countries at war and are seeking to help them. My fear is for the students of America, lest in this dark hour of the world’s need we may be indifferent or callous to the claims of our fellow students in Europe and not enter sufficiently into fellowship with their sufferings and into co-operative effort to enable them to meet their opportunities. If they are willing to give their lives and all that they possess for their ideals, should we not show a like ability to deny ourselves for the sake of rendering unselfish service?”

An opportunity will be given the Davidson men on Thursday to make a free-will offering to this great cause which should appeal so strongly to each man in the student body. Small envelopes will be placed in each room of the dormitories and the men are asked to place in them the amount of their gift and drop the sealed envelope in boxes which will be placed on the front of each dormitory. It is not desired that any names be put on the envelopes. It would be far better for each man in the student body to give a small amount than for a number of men to give large amounts and the others give nothing. At the Y. M. C. A. meeting Thursday night the amount of the offering will be announced. It is hoped that the Davidson men will join heartily in a voluntary offering for such a worthy cause.

The friends of Miss Fanny McBride will be interested to hear that she is getting along well and is improving rapidly. She has been in the Presbyterian Hospital of Charlotte, and it is hoped that she will return to Davidson shortly.

Erskine and Davidson Divide Tennis Match
Former Wins Doubles After Hard Fight But Loses Singles.

The tennis match between Davidson and Erskine College was played here last Wednesday and Thursday. In the doubles, played Wednesday, Galloway and Bowden, representing Erskine, carried off the honors by defeating Saunders and Alford in one of the hardest fought contests ever witnessed here. The former won the first two sets, but Saunders and Alford made a great rally, and won the next two sets. From then on it was nip and tuck, Davidson's representatives keeping ahead until the very last. To show how close the match was, at one time the matter of one point would have decided it in our favor. But it was destined not so to be, and Galloway and Bowden, by hard, consistent playing, gradually pulled themselves up and won the set and match.

In the singles, played Thursday, the game took a different aspect, Saunders defeating Galloway in straight sets. From the first Saunders clearly outplayed his opponent, and at no time was he in any great danger of defeat. Saunders won the first set 6-1. But in the second set he ran up against harder playing, and nearly every game ran into deuce. Saunders finally won 6-4. In the third set Galloway seemed to give down, and Saunders won by 6-2. Nevertheless, the match as a whole was hard fought and interesting, and was not nearly as one-sided as the score seems to indicate. Both matches were watched with interest by large crowds of enthusiasts.

Schedule of Events For Senior Speaking
Lyceum, Gym Exhibit, Y. M. C. A. and Frat. Recitations.

Preparations for Senior Speaking have been completed, and the schedule is as follows: The first speeches will be delivered on the afternoon of Friday, November 26, and the exercises will continue that night and the next morning, concluding on the afternoon of the 27th. Friday afternoon the Gym team will give an exhibition in Shearer Hall. That night, after the speaking, the Y. M. C. A. will hold a reception. Saturday night the first Lyceum number of the season will be given in Shearer Hall. This is an unusually good attraction and is sure to please everyone. Each of the five performers is an artist, and no one should miss this opportunity to hear the old English Motion Songs. Saturday night, after the Lyceum, comes the general Fraternity reception.

The students and the community alike extend their sympathy to Mrs. A. B. Robson in the loss of her sister, Miss Lula Baskerville. Though Miss Baskerville has been ill for some time, newsThe news of her death was received with deep regret and surprise by her friends. Mrs. Robson attended the funeral, near Hampden-Sydney, Va.

Horner Again Loses To Davidson Scrubs
Unable to Pierce Scrub Defense—Hines Makes 70-Yard Run.

The Davidson Scrubs took the second game with Horner on Friday by a score of 42-7. The Horner Cadets played a hard game but were no match for the Davidson Scrubs, who ripped open their line and circled their ends at will. The Davidsonians ran excellent interference which the Horner boys seemed powerless to stop. The Cadets were unable to make any appreciable gains, registering only two first downs. In the first two minutes of the play, King intercepted a forward pass and ran 30 yards for a touchdown. The Cadets’ only touchdown came in the first quarter when Hines received the ball on the kick-off and ran through the Scrubs for 70 yards and a touchdown. For Davidson, Ives, Crouch, Hill, Fowle, and Burns played a good game; for Horner, Hines, Cleek, and Weston were the stars. The Davidson Scrubs were weak on kicking field goals, not being able to kick a single one out of seven attempts.

The line-up:
Davidson. Position. Horner.
Miller.......... C ........ Smith
Shaw.......... RGT ........ Masses
Adams......... LG ........ Redwyne
King........... LE ........ Lyndsey
Paisley........ RGT ........ Bryan
Finley......... RT ........ Cherry
Law............ RE ........ Alexander
Ives........... QB ........ Woolcott
Fowle.......... RH ........ Cheek
Burns.......... LH ........ Hines
Hill, Crouch... FB ........ Weston

Hon. W. J. Bryan Delivers Address
Introduction By Dr. Martin—Davidson Students Attend.

A rare opportunity of hearing one of the greatest orators and statesmen of America was taken advantage of by a part of the student body when they went to Charlotte Monday evening to hear Hon. Wm. J. Bryan. After fitting words of introduction by President Martin, of Davidson, Mr. Bryan proceeded, in a masterly way, to unfold his subject, “The European War and Its Lessons For Us.” In a brief, clear-cut manner he gave his subject in outline: (1) The War As It Is, (2) The False Philosophy of the War, (3) The Way or Road Out. Among other things he said: “If preparedness would prevent war, then there would be no war in Europe today. If Europe had spent one-tenth as much in promoting friendship as it has in war, there would have been no war. War is caused by the false philosophy, ‘Might makes right.’” The fears of those who thought that he would criticize Wilson were utterly dispelled when, amid applause, he said: “I join the American people in thanking God that we have a man in the White House who does not want war and who is doing what he can to prevent war.”

Red and Black Out No. 10.
Played by Carolina Superior Weight and Experience Too Much for Davidson Line.

Through superior weight and experience and the sensational playing of McDonald, Carolina triumphed over the Red and Black in the annual game in Winston-Salem on Saturday by a score of 41-6. The Davidson line was unable to stop the rushes of the heavy Blue and White, and their backs would get through for repeated gains time after time. The old Davidson spirit and “pep” were there, and the boys worked steadily and hard throughout the entire game, but to no avail.

The game opened with a rush, Vandy, of Carolina, kicking off to Black, who returned 15 yards. After failure to gain through the line, the ball was punted 40 yards by R. Walker. Carolina also failed to gain and punted. A 30-yard gain by Laird, a 15-yard pass from Lawson to Younger, a 20-yard run by Long, of Carolina, and an exchange of punts resulted in the placing of the ball near the center of the field before the quarter ended. Soon after the opening of the second quarter, successive line plunges by McDonald and Reid, Carolina scored her first touchdown and Tandy kicked goal. A few minutes later, Tandy tried a drop kick from the Davidson 40-yard line but failed by scarcely a foot. Again, plunges and end runs by McDonald and Reid resulted in a touchdown, after which Tandy kicked goal.

Gray kicked off to the Carolina 20-yard line and the ball was returned 15 yards by Blades, substituting for McDonald. Failing to gain, Long punted to the Davidson 10-yard line and Fowle, for Davidson, also punted, Carolina getting the ball on the 42-yard line. After short gains by Reid and Taylor, Black intercepted a forward pass and went to the Carolina 45-yard line before being downed. The Blue and White line held and Lawson was forced to kick. He attempted a drop kick, which was blocked by Homewood, who went for a touchdown. Tandy kicked goal. After Gray had kicked to the 30-yard line, a forward pass from Long to Reid netted Carolina 25 yards, but a little later Long was forced to punt, the ball going over the goal line. It was then Davidson's ball on her own 20-yard line. The half ended after a 97-yard gain by Black.

Gray opened the second half with a kick to the Carolina 20-yard line. After making first down through gains by Taylor and McDonald, Carolina again punted, and after no gain, Davidson punted also. McDonald and Parker gained 25 yards and Tandy again tried another drop kick but failed. Davidson punted out of danger to the 50-yard line. Here Long and McDonald executed a forward pass for a gain of 25 yards and immediately after McDonald went over for another touchdown, Tandy kicking goal. Gray kicked off to the Carolina 25-yard line, and on their failure to gain, Long punted 36 yards to Lawson, who was downed by Ramsey. Failing to gain, Walker punted 20 yards to Long, who was downed by White. In quick succession, Parker, McDonald, and Taylor by repeated plunges gained a total of 30 yards before the quarter ended.

(Continued on page 4)