---

THE CAMPAIGN A SUCCESS
(Concluded from page 1)

you're young, because it is much easier. The afternoon meeting was again held in the church and the crowd was
even larger than before. The sermon on “Justification” had as its text Corinthians 6:18. (1) We are justified freely by
His grace. (2) We are justified instrumentally by faith. (3) We are justified meritoriously by His righteousness. (4) We are
justified evidentially by what we have and are. Singing by the Charlotte visitors, and by all the girls under sixteen
varied the usual order of service, and added much to the interest. The last meeting, Thursday night, was on II
Corinthians 8:5: “But first gave their own selves to the Lord.” This was fittingly the most powerful of all the
services and most blessed by visible results. Fully fifty men took a new stand for Christ, and the total of
conversions rose to sixteen. It was a wonderful meeting, and it was with mutual regret that leaders and the student
body saw it draw to a close.

RESULTS.
The meetings literally “turned the campus over” for Christ. There is everywhere a reawakened interest in spiritual affairs. The membership
in the Y. M. C. A. has grown by leaps and bounds; new Bible classes have been formed; and last
Sunday nine men joined the church. Davidson is rejoicing in her blessings.

ATTENDANCE.
Throughout the meetings the attendance was splendid. The chapel was always full to overflowing, and at the night services many
were forced to stand. At the church there was always a very large congregation, and added chairs failed to accommodate
it.

SINGING.
One of the most enjoyable features was the wonderful singing. Under Mr. Alexander’s wholehearted and inspiring leadership Davidson sang as
it had never sung before. “Shine, Shine, Just Where You Are!” rang out until the townspeople stopped their work to
listen. “Just a Little Help From You!” was a great favorite, so much so that Mr. Alexander suggested it for
our college song. Mr. Brown time and again held the entire audience spellbound by his marvelous voice and wonderful earnestness,
and Mr. Barraclough won the hearts of all. When the party left Friday morning for Asheville the student body was
at the station en masse, and yells and songs proved their appreciation and love.

WHAT THE LEADERS SAY.
All the members of the party were more than pleased with Davidson, Dr. Chapman even saying that it was the
most impressive student body he had ever seen. The earnestness and spirituality of the men called forth special comment, and
it was agreed that they had never held a more pleasant series of meetings.

WOFFORD IS DEFEATED
(Concluded from page 1)

netted 30 yards for Wofford. The ball was now on Davidson’s 13-yard line, the first time that her goal had
been threatened. However, Wofford failed to gain on attempted forward passes, the ball went over, and McAlister, in a long
end run brought the ball back 35 yards, where it rested at the beginning of the fourth quarter. A few
good gains by Laird and Keesler brought the ball to Wofford’s 1-yard line and Black went over for the third
touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Wofford, receiving the next kickoff, returned the ball to her 30-yard line. Here Black intercepted a
forward pass and went for a touchdown. Grey failed at goal. Wofford, receiving, returned the ball to her 22-yard line.
Failing to make the necessary gains on downs, Osborne punted. Black made a run of 30 yards and later carried
the ball over for the fifth touchdown. A run of 15 yards by Crouch made the sixth touchdown, and by
intercepting a forward pass and making a 45-yard run scored the seventh and last touchdown.

The line-up of the two teams was as follows:

Davidson. Position. Wofford.
White, B. N. .......... center .......... Homer
Sayad ............... right guard .......... Carter
Grey ............... left guard .......... Peterson
White, T. L. .......... right tackle .......... Kinard
McKeithen .......... left tackle .......... Pruitt
Younger ..........Glenn right end Walker, R....... 0.0... eee Moore left end Keesler... 0... cece eee Osborne quarterback Walker, C............05. Covington
right half Black 20. occ cc cee eee ee Mins left half Laird 20. ccc ee cee eee Saunders fullback

Substitutions: Davidson—Miller for White, B. N., Adams for Sayad, Crouch, W. B., for Adams, Paisley for Grey, Shaw, J. A.,
for Paisley, Finley for White, T. S., Robeson for Finley, Pharr for McKeithen, Law for Younger, McKinnon for Law, King
for Walker, R., Fowle for Walker, C., Crouch, G. S., for Fowle, McAlister for Black, Hill for McAlister, Ives for
Hill, Dean for Laird, Burns for Dean, Porter for Burns. Wofford—Whitesides for Homer, Harlee for Moore, Huggins for Peterson.

Officials: Referee, Bone, Davidson; Umpire, Mills, University of South Carolina; Head Linesman, Dr. J. M. Douglass, Davidson; Time of quarters,
15 minutes.

QUIPS AND CRANKS CONTRACT CLOSED

W. G. Morrison and L. A. Mullen, business manager and editor-in-chief respectively of “Quips and Cranks,” state that they have
closed the contract for the printing and engraving for the 1916 volume, but are very reticent as to details. It
is understood, however, that Foote and Davies, of Atlanta, will publish the book, and that a very unique Annual is
being designed. The students have responded very liberally in signing up for “Quips and Cranks” this year, and if this
continues there is every reason to expect the Annual to hold its place among the foremost college annuals of the
South.

The staff is composed of the following men: Literary Department, F. H. Smith, J. L. Payne, Latta Law, L. A.
Chambliss; Art Department, J. F. Good, editor, Andrew Brown, J. B. Mallard (other appointments to be made later); business manager,
W. G. Morrison; assistant manager, E. G. Hampton; official photographer, Roy Moose, Greensboro.

PAN-HELLENIC RULING

The Pan-Hellenic Council has ruled that Freshman cannot be initiated by a fraternity until he has passed three-fifths of his
term’s work, and that no Freshman will be allowed in a fraternity hall except at Senior Speaking or when there
are ladies present.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.

Just received by express a fresh shipment of Norris Exquisite Candies

Cigars : Tobacco The Rexall Store

AT OUR MODERN SANITARY FOUNTAIN : Stationery : Etc. Prescriptions a Specialty

COME IN, BOYS. This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds”
Your trade is appreciated

L. A. ELLIOT

The Flyless Restaurant TORRENCE & HELPER

HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va. Also Auto Service

Huyler’s Candies for Halloween has led them all. Our stock is complete. We will be glad to assist you in
selecting her a nice BOX. Headquarters for Drinks, Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes, and Stationery

HOTEL STONEWALL —Charlotte, N. C.— HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C. HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C. HOTEL LAFAYETTE,
- Fayetteville, N. C. WRIGHT'S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N.C.

J. P. SANDERS, President

REAL SPORT DEMANDS SPALDING QUALITY. No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior
implements. True sport calls for the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress
of the game out-of-doors and indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready.
Our Fall and Winter Catalogue shows pictures and prices of everything for winter times. Write for a copy.

Jetton Drug Co. Sales Agents for Huyler’s Candies

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits

TIME CERTIFICATES Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months
or more

A. G. Spalding & Bros. 74 N. BROAD STREET ATLANTA, GA

The COMMISSARY

Give your Shoe Repair Work To JOHNSON & MEEKS Davidson College Representing SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BE SHAVED and have those hairs cut at our up-to-date BARBER SHOP RUTLEDGE NORTON, Prop. Next door to Post Office
