2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P.M.

EDITORIAL BOARD
A. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
J. F. Mitchell... ... Managing Editor
P. P. Price........ Assignment Editor

The Staff
W. D. Sparrow
Latta Law
R. Ratchford
Business Manager
J. H. Carson

Reporters
William Hollister
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal
J. H. Hamilton
W. C. Cummings
J. A. Thames

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL

MESSAGE TO ALUMNI.
Our columns this week carry news of the college to over three thousand Alumni of Davidson. We hope that we
have accomplished our purpose, which is to compel you to stop, and think, and then, when memories of the old
days come trooping back, that you will drop everything and make arrangements to come back to the campus again. Everything
seems to indicate that a record-breaking crowd will return for this Commencement. Be one of that number. A cordial welcome
awaits you.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Last week the various committees of the Eumenean Society were appointed. The following were chosen:

Executive Committee: Perry (Chairman), Dumas, Price, P. B.
Finance Committee: Johnson, W. A. Hagood, Woods, J. R.
Absence Committee: Hoyt, Hamilton, Bellingrath.
Schedule Committee: Scott, Morton, Hunter.

Monday the Eumenean Society held its Annual Reunion, May 24.

A YEAR OF SPLENDID WORK BY Y. M. C. A.
The past year has been in many ways one of the most successful in the history of the Davidson Y.
M. C. A. The life of the men has been on a higher level than usual; and the spirit among
them one of helpfulness, and of standing for what is right. The Fall campaign, which was led by Dr. W.
R. Dobyns, was very inspiring and helpful. His talks were messages direct from God and were all the more powerful
because they were simple. Mr. W. S. Golden, of the class of 1913, a leader during his college days, was
a great help to Dr. Dobyns and to the men during the meetings.

The weekly meetings of the Association have been good, and the attendance considerably larger than last year. A special feature
was the series of life-work meetings led by students. In the Bible and Mission Study departments the work done has
been good. The semester plan was adopted this year; the Bible Study classes being held in the Fall and the
Mission Study classes in the Spring. Two hundred men were enrolled in Bible Study, being divided into fifteen classes and
using four courses of study. The average attendance was 82 percent. About the same number of men were enrolled in
Mission Study; four courses being used, two in home missions and two in foreign missions. The final average of attendance
has not been made up, but to date it is higher than that of the Bible Study classes. About $400
has been raised to support a missionary in Korea.

At a meeting held the latter part of November nearly $400 was subscribed by students and members of the faculty
for the erection of a cottage at Blue Ridge. About $250 has been paid on these subscriptions and the Association
expects to raise the additional $250 necessary to pay one-half the cost of a cottage. Queens College is to pay
the other half.

Four Sunday Schools reaching over two hundred people, having preaching services twice a month, have been conducted by the Association.
This Spring a negro night school was organized. The thirty pupils are taught by ten of the students. A plan
is now on foot to raise money with which to fit up the old Y. M. C. A. hall as
a social center. The college authorities have promised to give $200 if the students will raise $300. The need for
such a place in which all the activities of student life would center in the Y. M. C. A. is
keenly felt; and it is to be hoped that the students and friends of the college will rally to the
support of this plan.

The last act of the old cabinet which retired May 15 was to inaugurate the plan of floor prayer services
each night. At 10 o'clock the men on each floor gather in one of the rooms and are led in
a short prayer service by one of their number. These services have been well attended and helpful. The prayer life
among the men has been more real this year than usual. We must not forget the splendid work of the
President, Frank Price, whohas perhaps done more for Association work than any other Davidson man. He has made Jesus Christ
a more living reality on the Davidson campus, in a larger part than anyone else.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS BEING PLANNED

At a recent meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, definite plans were formulated for the conversion of the
old Y. M. C. A. hall into a Social Center for the use of the students. The college has offered
to give $200 to the remodeling of the building if the Cabinet can raise $300 more for its equipment. This
is to be done, as far as possible, outside of the student body. The plan suggested calls for the removal
of all the partitions, replastering and tinting the walls, etc. The old stairway is to be taken out, and a
new one built on the outside of the building; a door replacing the double window which now opens on the
second-story porch. This plan will give more room both in the social center and in the gymnasium. A small committee
room is to be built in one corner of the building for informal gatherings. The equipment is to be complete
with tables, chairs, games, magazines, etc., and the room is to be heated by a large base-burner above. This will
provide a general meeting place for all the students.

Several plans are under consideration by the college authorities for further extension and permanent improvements during the coming summer. These
plans include the calcimining of the walls of the dormitories, the putting in of steam heat in Shearer Hall, the
installation of a new heating plant in the Chemical Laboratory, and the building of a house on Concord Avenue for
one of the professors. Better sanitary conditions are also being planned for the college houses not already connected with the
sewerage system. The Campbell house will be repainted and necessary repairs made at the same time.

Thursday, May 20, the Fresh enjoyed a delightful lecture on the “Green Cap Bill” by Jack Paisley.

“Daughter” has announced that he thinks all students should be neutral in their discussion of “war” topics.

May 5, 1915

GOLF TOURNAMENT

The annual handicap tournament of the local club has been in progress since last Wednesday. The playing so far has
been fine for so small and so recently established a club.

Last Wednesday afternoon in the preliminaries, Keesler defeated Nisbet 3 up and 2 to play. Also, Dr. J. M. McConnell
won from Carson 4 up and 3 to play. Thursday afternoon, Minter defeated Henderson after a hard-fought game. They tied
the first 18 holes, which made it necessary to play one more. Minter won this hole, thereby winning the match.
On the same afternoon, Clark defeated Roddey 9 up and 8 to play. Friday in the preliminaries, Clark defeated McKinnon
by 2 up after fighting an uphill game all the way. The winning score in this match was 76, which
would do credit to anyone on this course. The same afternoon, Minter defeated Keesler by 6 up and 4 to
play. Saturday, Dr. McConnell won from Minter after a hard-fought game by 6 up.

WANTED—To half-sole that pair of shoes. G. A. Martin, Davidson, N. C.

WANTED—To do your Kodak developing and finishing. Johnson and Hudson, 27 S. Wing Chambers.

WANTED—To do your house repair work. C. B. Mooney, Phone 40.

CUSHMAN STUDIO, Charlotte, N. C. Kodak finishing. See A. R. Howland.

WANTED—To exchange small Refrigerator for a good Ice Box. R. Andrews.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE

During its 55 years’ history, it has been tested by panics, wars, fires, and inquisitions, any of which would have
ruined a weak, poorly managed company. Its existence today is its strongest recommendation. It stands for SERVICE, STRENGTH, SECURITY.

THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
W. J. RODDEY & CO., Mgrs., Rock Hill, S. C.
J. P. QUARLES, Mgr., Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Full Faculty : Thorough Instruction
WELL-EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Latest from Piccadilly

Our Spring and Summer Line of SHIRTS, HATS & CAPS are up to the mark
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

When HUNGRY, remember we always have the very best line of Fancy Groceries, Fruits, and Candy. Always Fresh, Always the
best. Give Us A Trial And BE CONVINCED.

L. A. ELLIOTT :: Next door to White Drug Co.
