a> The DAVIDSONIAN, October 11, 1916 | Literary Societies | SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, October 14th: “Resolved, That Judges of the Supreme Court should be elected by popular vote.”

Eumenean—Affirmative: C. B. Robson, Beall, McCloy, Boggs. Negative: G. Robson, A. Brown, Frazer, P. B. Price.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Monroe, Murray, R. W. Robinson, Morton, Stagner, Leyburn. Negative: W. C. Neel, R. H. Stone, Sample, Wilson, Paisley.

Declamations and Orations, October 16th:

Eumenean—Declamations: Hollinsworth, Allen, Gilbert. Orations: Baker, Eikel, L. H. Patterson, Saunders, Thomas.

Philanthropic—Declamations: Hart, Berryhill, W. F. Hall, Pharr, McClure, S. W. Robinson, Lacy, Chalmers. Orations: Finley, Reese, Mann, Overton.

Eumenean Freshman Society, Monday night, October 16th—Debate—Affirmative: Liston, Love. Negative: McCutcheon, McGirt. Declamations: Harris, King, Penick, J. G. Richards.

WEEKLY MEETINGS

Owing to the absence of the majority of the members attending the game last Saturday, there were no meetings Saturday night.

In the Eumenean Society, Monday morning, October 9th, D. V. Hudson gave a discussion on the “Origin of Chemistry,” showing that it most probably originated in China. E. H. Hamilton pictured “Christianity and War” in the light that Christianity has not failed, but the so-called Christians in the warring nations have failed to live up to the Christian principles. E. B. Burns delivered a speech of John Adams, “For the Declaration.” Carwile’s subject was “Literary Pursuits and Active Business.”

After the opening exercises of the Phi Society, Monday morning, Henry and Edward Lilly were initiated into the society. Then the following program was rendered: R. Kornegay, Jr., delivered “Spartacus to the Gladiators;” T. R. Alexander, “A Tragedy in the Sunshine;” and H. N. Menzies gave a discussion of the “Boll Weevil” and spoke of the climatic conditions in which the pests spread most rapidly, and also enumerated some ways through which a check in its spread can be made. The Orations were delivered by W. H. Neal, R. H. Ratchford, and D. I. McKeithan. Neal's subject was “The Purpose of the International Polity Club.” The purpose as stated is to study international relations, and a history of its foundation was given. Some sidelights of the last convention, held in Cleveland, were given. R. H. Ratchford spoke on “The National Presidential Campaign.” He showed the two modes of campaigning and that Mr. Wilson was gaining through his method. McKeithan’s subject was “The Passing of Persia as an Independent Nation.” He gave a brief and concise history of how the nation was divided at the time it lost its prestige.

Friends have received invitations to the wedding of Mr. William McGilvary Orr, of Goldsboro, N. C., to Miss Ethel Fowle, of Washington, N. C., on October 25th. Mr. Orr graduated in the class of 1910, and Miss Fowle is a sister of Mr. J. L. Fowle, '18.

Clerk—“Now, see here, little girl, I can’t spend the whole day showing you penny toys. Do you want the earth with a little red fence around it for one cent?”
Little Girl—“Let me see it.”—Life.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR MEETINGS FOR THE FALL

The topic for the Christian Endeavor meeting next Sunday, October 15th, is “Public Spirit and How to Cultivate It.” Civic pride, civic purity, love of the people, high-minded officials, and the coming city, are phases of the subject which will be considered. The meeting will be led by E. B. Wright, following which about thirty minutes will be given to discussion by the members, as is the usual custom. Every member of the Student body, whether a member of the society or not, is invited to attend the meetings of this society, as they will be of interest and help to all.

The topics and leaders for the remainder of the fall term are as follows:

October 22nd—Manliness and Womanliness; Scripture reading, Neh. 6:1-13; Leader, J. W. Clark.

October 29th—The Rewards of Religion; Scripture reading, I Cor. 3:6-23; Leader, H. B. Dendy.

November 5th—The Consecration of Social Life (Consecration meeting); Scripture reading, I Cor. 9:19-23; Leader, J. L. Fowle.

November 12th—How To Be Strong; Scripture reading, Heb. 11:32-40; Leader, J. H. Ormand.

November 19th—Why Christianity is the Hope of Our Country; Scripture reading, Ps. 9:1-20; Leader, D. W. Roberts.

November 26th—The Grace of Gratitude; Scripture reading, Ps. 107:1-43; Leader, E. H. Hamilton.

December 3rd—The Consecration of Business Life (Consecration meeting); Scripture reading, Rev. 3:14-22; Leader, J. A. Thames.

December 10th—Defy Evil; Scripture reading, I Kings 21:15-20; Leader, C. F. Allen.

December 17th—Big Jobs Awaiting Us; Scripture reading, Exod. 3:1-14; Leader, J. R. Woods.

ANNUALS HAVE ARRIVED.

After a delay of six months, over which the management had no control, the Davidson College Annual, “Quips and Cranks,”Edited by the class of '16, has been received and distributed. The Annual, as regards literary productiveness, is worthy of high praise. The art work is unique and shows much originality. The photography was well done. However, there is an outstanding objection, in that the engraving is greatly defective. The volume is dedicated in well-rounded phrasing to "The man, Woodrow Wilson, who, as President of our country, is every day justifying our faith in him and our loyalty to him by his indefatigable labors and Christian statesmanship. . . . We honor him as the champion of the right; we follow him as a leader chosen of God; we love him as our brother." As a history of the college year and especially of the class of '16, it approaches exactness, thoroughness, and completeness. The literary productions are witty and are full of humor throughout. The number of art contributions is many and portrays a great sense of wit and college spirit. Notwithstanding the fact of the failure of the engravers, the Annual is unique and well above the standard. It reflects great honor upon the literary and artistic tastes of the editors.

He—How do you like my mustache?
She—Not so very well at first sight.
He—Perhaps it will grow on you.
She—Oh, James, you are always thinking of the most ridiculous things.
—Yale Record.

FELLOWS PIANOS AT ALL PRICES
The main thing in buying a piano is not high polish or exterior considerations—but TONE—and lasting WORKMANSHIP. These you buy with any PIANO we offer here at factory prices. Mail the coupon today for a catalogue and note our unusual prices and liberal terms.

COUPON
Please send me a catalogue of pianos today without obligation to me.
—Established 1812—
Chas. M. Stieff
219 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TYPEWRITING
Let me fix that Senior Speech up in neat style. Present your English papers in an attractive way. Special rates for regular work.
W. L. DOUGLAS
Name
Address
Quality & Service
See me at No. 7 Chambers

DO YOU EVER STOP TO READ THE ADS IN THIS PAPER?
They make the paper possible and in turn should receive your careful attention.

STUDENT BODY STATISTICS
NOW FOR FOOTBALL
Why not play with the Spalding intercollegiate Football No. J-52? This is the one used in every big college game because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint. Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with the cashier of Bank
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.
At the Y. M. C. A. meeting on last Thursday night, O. C. Williamson spoke on the subject of "Consecration." In this talk, the power of a consecrated life to endure sorrow and affliction and to accomplish untold good for the Kingdom of Christ through complete submission to the will of God was stressed. One of the quotations used was that of a prominent worker, that "The world has yet to see what God can do with a life completely submissive to His will." The meeting next Thursday will be taken in charge by the Volunteer Band, which will present the call to work in the foreign field.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

Miss Bryde Lippard, daughter of Mrs. S. E. Lippard, of Barium Springs, and Carl Sloan, son of Mr. Hugh Sloan, of Davidson, were married September 5th in Elizabeth, Va., by Rev. James B. Black.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

Teacher—Johnny, can you tell me what a hypocrite is?
Johnny—Yes, ma'am. It's a boy who comes to school with a smile on his face.
—Brooklyn Citizen.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION