The DAVIDSONIAN, November 8, 1916

Literary Societies SCHEDULE

On account of the Davidson-Carolina game, there will be no meeting of the literary societies on next Saturday night, November
11th.

Declamations and Orations, November 13th:

Eumenean—Declamations: C. Robson, G. M. Robson, Solomons. Orations: McCloy, Orgain, Patterson, Price, Roddey.

Philanthropic—Declamations: C. W. Worth, Fleming, Lott, Roberts, Foscue, Thomas, Query, W. C. Stone. Orations: Bullock, Cumming, Misenheimer, McDonald.

Eumenean Freshman Society, November 13th:

Debate, “Resolved, That Immigration should be further restricted by the imposition of a literacy test.” Affirmative: King, Brown. Negative: Liston,
J. G. Richards. Declamations: Price, Love, McClerkin, McCutcheon, McGirt.

In the Eumenean Society on Saturday night, November 4th, the regular weekly debate was held, the subject being, “Resolved, That
Hughes should be elected President of the United States.” The affirmative was upheld by Johnson, Potts, and Orgain, and the
negative by Humphrey, Jenkins, Burns, and Brown. The affirmative held that Hughes ought to be elected because he has shown
great wisdom and ability as Supreme Court judge; that he helped enact a great deal of wise measures while governor
of New York, and that Wilson ought not to be elected because he has shown weakness in dealing with England
over the censorship of our mails, and that he has failed in his Mexican policy. The negative, on the other
hand, held that Wilson should be our next president because his foreign policy in regard to Germany has been a
clear-cut success, as shown by Germany's compliance with our requests; that he has kept us out of war; that his
foreign policy as a whole has been better than could have been expected under the circumstances; that his domestic policy
has been a notable success, as is shown by the enactment of the Rural Credits Act, the Federal Reserve Act,
and the Child Labor Laws, and that Hughes ought not to be elected because his efficiency as a Supreme Court
judge does not at all indicate that he will prove himself capable as an administrator. Both the committee and the
house decided in favor of the negative.

On Monday morning, orations were delivered by Bennett, S. R. Keesler, and T. M. Mitchell. Bennett spoke on “Our Great
Postal System,” Keesler on “The Summer Camp as an Ideal Way for a College Student to Spend His Vacation,” and
Mitchell's subject was “The Origin of Davidson College.”

In the Philanthropic Society, the question, “Resolved, That Hughes should be elected at the next Presidential election,” was upheld on
the affirmative by Ratchford, Alexander, Spence, and Fowle, and on the negative by Clark, Dunlap, Kornegay, Boney, and Webber. The
decision, both of the house and the judges, was in favor of the negative. The points brought out by the
affirmative were that Wilson's decision in the Mexican situation, his inactivity in the European war, and the passage of the
Adamson Labor bill were detrimental to the United States. Their endorsement for Hughes was for his fight against the gas
and insurance monopolies and his past record with his programs for woman suffrage and high tariff. The negative based their
arguments on the legal statutes endorsed by Wilson, such as that on the Federal Reserve Bank system, the Eight-hour Law,
and the Child Labor Bill. His qualifications as a President were pointed out.

MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES

REFINEMENT and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found in the home where
there is

The Stieff Piano

Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan.

219 S. Tryon

The Declamations on Monday, November 6th, were: “Southern Patriotism,” by Stogner; “Death of Lafayette,” by Leyburn; “Education a Voluntary Task,”
by Spratt; “Dramatic Episode,” by Sample, and “Ambition,” by L. L. Wilson. The Orations were: Mann on “Government Ownership of
Railroads.”St. Staff Charlotte, N. C. Railroads; W. N. Morton. "Traditions of Our College:" Thames. "A Suffering People:" R. H. Stone.
"The Modern Freshman English Course" Th I A I E BROWN (O. and Paisley, "The Election of Tomorrow." CHARLOTTE, N.
C. Society Brand Clothes Knapp-Felt Hats HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY. Quite a number of books have recently been added to the library, among which are: "Ancient
Ideals," in two volumes by Taylor; "Life and Speeches of William Sulzer;" "Black Sheep;" "Adventures in Africa," by McKenzie; "Single
Tax Movement in the United States," by Young; "The Jews of Today," by Ruppin; "Hazlitt on English Literature," by Zeitlin;
"German Philosophy and Politics," by Dewey; "Peep at Many Lands—Greece," by Browne; "Sectionalism in Virginia From 1776-1861," by Ambler, and
"Live Issues in Classical Study," by Harrington.

TOWN ITEMS. Mrs. Easley, of South Boston, Va., is spending some time with her daughter, Mrs. E. Manning. Miss Katherine
Worth, who is attending Converse College, spent the weekend at home.

NOW FOR FOOTBALL Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. J-5? This is the one used in every
big college game because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint. Our football line is complete in everything
needed for the player. Write for Catalogue A. G. SPALDING & BROS. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.

Misses Lizzie and Mary Young returned home last Friday after a prolonged absence in Charlotte during the illness of their
mother. The family of Mr. H. J. Brown has moved from South Main Street to the South How house, on
Concord Road. Mr. Jno. D. McConnell, of McConnellsville, S. C., is visiting his sons, Drs. J. M. and J. W.
McConnell. Miss Hattie Brown, of Statesville, N. C., spent Monday in Davidson.

DON'T MISS THESE Cut out the following list of "eye don'ts" and pin them up in your bedrooms where you
can readily see them each day: Don't read facing a light. Don't read while you rock. Don't work in a
poor light. Don't write or read or sew lying down. Don't try to enlarge or brighten your eyes by dropping
belladonna into them. Don't rub your eyes. Don't use your eyes when they smart and water. Don't tax them when
you are exhausted physically. Don't forget that eyes need to be rested. Don't forget that happy thoughts make the eyes
sparkle and glow in the most fascinating way.—New Idea Woman’s Magazine.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

Quality Counts That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the best for all these years. The
Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers 616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia

Athletic Supplies CALL WHITE DRUG CO THE COMMISSARY

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION

A University of Chicago professor says the rah! rah! boy is passing. That's strange, he used to be flunking.—Tiger.
