2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price..........- Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. W. Harrison, O. C. Williamson, D. H. Therrell, R. E. McClure, W. B. Harwood, R. M. Calhoun, S. Price,
E. R. Boney, R. H. Bennett, O. J. Thies, Jr., H. A. Dishongh, G. C. Bellingrath, F. P. Hall, Jr.,
L. H. Patterson, S. T. McCloy, H. N. Morton, H. Lilly.

Management:
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
J. Thies, Jr.
Assistant Managers
O. G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

THE CONTEMPTIBLE SPIRIT.

The spirit that was evinced by some of the students in church Sunday morning was utterly mean and contemptible, and
totally unworthy of the true spirit claimed by Davidson. Nor can it be excused by the worn phrase “thoughtlessness,” for
the same men heard the same question thrashed through last year, and in this, his most plastic age, when present
acts tend to become future traits of character, the young man has no business with thoughtlessness.

The height of discourtesy was shown in disturbing and attempting to call down a guest. That such conduct should occur
in the House of God showed utter lack of reverence. Men who alone, or in front, would not have dared
make a disturbance, but taking advantage of numbers, kicked the benches or tinkled watches, branded themselves as contemptible cowards. And
he who cannot sit quietly for thirty-five minutes, whatever the circumstances, is either childish or utterly mean.

What is the use of Davidson advertising her fair name, or her football team winning, if she is going to
give herself a black eye by mistreating visiting ministers from whose congregations the future students must come. The men who
are guilty of such a spirit are fully as contemptible as those who cheat on examinations, and should receive like
treatment.

THE COLLEGE MUSEUM.

Thus reads the Catalogue: “There is a supply of tables, gas, and other apparatus necessary for practical work in Mineralogy
as well as Geology. In addition, the department has at its disposal the splendid cabinets of rocks, fossils, etc., found
in the college museum. These cabinets have been accumulating for fifty years. Besides numerous smaller additions by gifts, exchange, and
purchase, the Brumby Cabinet was added by purchase, containing twelve hundred minerals, three thousand fossils, and eleven hundred recent shells;
there was added, by donation, about fifteen hundred minerals; and also a collection of shells given by former State Geologist
Kerr. The whole consists of over ten thousand specimens.”

Let us pay this remarkable place a visit. We enter Chambers’ colossal halls. The museum doors are locked forsooth, and
a passer-by kindly informs us that they have been locked for weeks. But we will not be balked. We seek
a janitor and a key and enter. Behold the “splendid cabinets.” Their only fault, where the glass is not broken,
is that they are so thickly laden with dust that we cannot see through the glass. We remove some of
the real estate and peer within. Sure enough, there are the fossils and rocks, that have been “accumulating for fifty
years.” From appearances they have been accumulating dust for fifty years. Some have labels, some have two, some have none.
On the shelves are shoe boxes, match boxes and other receptacles containing rare fossils and valuable minerals in delightful variety.
On the floor are broken pieces, the remains of a battle long since vanished into the dimming past. And finally
we pick our way amid cobwebs and dust, over rubbish, to the door. We agree that the college in its
present circumstances is unable to either build a new museum or spend large sums in fixingup the old one, but
an occasional visit from a janitor would be neither expensive nor unprofitable. The geology class would find plenteous work in
readjusting and restoring the labels. And if there should be a set date for opening it, some interest might be
taken in it by the students.

MRS. A. B. YOUNG.

Mrs. A. B. Young, of Davidson, one of the oldest and best beloved women of the county, died at the
Charlotte Sanatorium, Sunday night at 10 o'clock, after an illness that had continued for the past several weeks. She was
68 years of age and is survived by two daughters, Misses Lizzie Craige Young and Mary Erwin Young. The funeral
took place in Concord, from the home of Mrs. Allison, a sister of the deceased, yesterday at noon. The services
were conducted by Dr. Richards, assisted by Rev. Dr. Grier, of Concord. Mrs. Young was Miss Mary Elizabeth Craige before
her marriage, the daughter of the late Burton and Elizabeth Craige. The greater part of her life was spent in
Concord, where she had innumerable friends and admirers. She moved to Davidson several years ago, and resided here until taken
to Charlotte for treatment several weeks ago. She was a devoted and loyal member of the Davidson Presbyterian church and
was well known for her many benefactions.

DAVIDSON-CAROLINA GAME REMAINS IN WINSTON

For the present, at least, this important game on Davidson's schedule is to be played in Winston. Manager Reese has
stated that all rumors to the contrary are unfounded. However, it must not be denied that Charlotte gives a strong
bid for the game to be played on Wearn Field. The alumni and football enthusiasts of Charlotte have always shown
their loyalty and interest by turning out a large delegation to support the Red and Black machine. Again, the proximity
of the city to Davidson and its population give additional attractiveness to their offer. The proposition certainly deserves thoughtful consideration.
On the other hand, the two games in Charlotte and the evident advantages of the game in Winston should be
taken into account.

GOOD PRINTING CONSISTS OF MORE THAN INK, TYPE & PAPER

While there is nothing mysterious about the process, it requires, among other things, good judgment, taste, and a desire to
keep ahead or above the average. The goodness of printing is governed by the printer’s equipment plus his ability to
use it. We have a generous supply of both and are constantly adding to them. Every job a good one.
Our line embraces all kinds and classes of work, but we prefer to do the better kind. If you desire
the best in any class we can meet your requirements, and guarantee to please you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

W. H. NEAL, Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods,
Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

You can write on a CORONA The personal writing machine. Come in and let us prove it to you.

J. E. Crayton & Co. 217 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.

A New Line of College Jewelry Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc.

Torrence’s Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN: We are here to serve you.

MARLEY 2½ IN. DEVON 2¼ IN. COLLARS 15 cts. each, 6 for 90 cts. CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS

You shall know them by their fruits, says the Good Book. We sell the Freshest, Ripest Fruits to be had.
Come in. We are always glad to see you.

L. A. ELLIOTT Sanitary Barber Shop

Something good to eat all the time. E. R. Jenks, Proprietor

Holeproof Hosiery “Red Ball” Overshoes :: General Merchandise ::

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG Seed Wheat, Rye & Oats Fruits and Candies :: FANCY GROCERIES ::

SOUTHERN RAILWAY Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

The Southern Serves the South

R. B. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt. 22 South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.
