The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Clemson Is Defeated By Red and Black

Of the Week In Town Social and Personal Items About

Championship Won Monday by Washington and Lee

Lee Meets Defeat Close Score In Track Meet Saturday Afternoon.

Davidson won Saturday's track meet from Clemson by the close score of 55 to 53. The score indicates the relative strength of the two teams. The lead in points went from one team to the other throughout the meet, and it required the last event, the half-mile, to decide the winner. The individual honors went to Adams, of Clemson, with thirteen points, five in the 100-yard dash, and five in the 220, and three in the shot put. Three local records were broken. Brand lowered his own mile mark from 4:54 1/4 to 4:48 2/5, while Grey not only broke his discus record of 104 feet, with 109 feet 11 inches, but also broke the shot put record with 35 feet 4 1/2 inches. The events were run off in fast time, and were interesting from a spectator's point of view. There were no two-mile or hammer events, by mutual agreement of the two managers. This meet closed all forms of athletic activities at Davidson for the year. The following are the scores made by the two teams:

100 yard dash—Adams, Clemson, first; Morrison, Davidson, second; Ives, Davidson, third. 10 1/5 seconds.
High jump—Younger, Davidson, first; Finley, Clemson, second; Hutchins, Clemson, third. 5 feet 6 inches.
One mile run—Brand, Davidson, first; Odom, Clemson, second; Finley, Davidson, third. 4:48 2/5.
220 yard dash—Adams, Clemson, first; Morrison, Davidson, second; McKinnon, Davidson, third. 23 3/5.
Pole vault—Perry, Davidson, first; Verner, Clemson, second; Boyn and Stribling, Clemson, tied for third. 10 feet 3 inches.
Shot put—Grey, Davidson, first; Adams, Clemson, second; Stribling, Clemson, third. 35 feet 4 1/2 inches.
High hurdles—Dick, Clemson, first; Worth, Davidson, second; Finley, Davidson, third. 17 2/5.
440 yard dash—Crouch, Davidson, first; Sullivan, Clemson, second; McKinnon, Davidson, third. 54 seconds.
Broad jump—Stribling, Clemson, first; Hutchins, Clemson, second; Mountcastle, Davidson, third. 19 feet 8 1/2 inches.
Discus throw—Grey, Davidson, first; Stribling, Clemson, second; Nimitz, Clemson, third. 100 feet 11 inches.
Low hurdles—Worth, Davidson, first; Verner, Clemson, second; Perry, Davidson, third. 28 2/5 seconds.
880 yard run—Dick, Clemson, first; Crouch, Davidson, second; Johnson, Davidson, third. 2:07 2/5.

RISING SOPHOMORES ELECT NEW OFFICERS

At a meeting of the Freshman class last Wednesday the following officers were elected for next year: L. B. Dougherty, president; I. Pickens, vice-president; H. G. Williamson, secretary and treasurer; G. H. Rowland and L. M. Johnson, student councilmen.

Dr. C. R. Harding spent Sunday with his daughter in Charlotte.

The Town People.

John D. McConnell, of McConnellsville, S. C., is visiting his sons, Drs. J. M. and J. W. McConnell.

Mrs. Arbuckle will spend the weekend in Charlotte with Miss Young, Dean of Queens College.

Dr. Martin was the guest of the Davidson Alumni Association, of Greenville, S. C., at a luncheon on last Saturday.

Dr. C. M. Richards attended the meeting of the Board of Trustees of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond last week.

The Davidson Book Lovers’ Club will meet at the home of Miss Young on Friday afternoon, May 10th. Mrs. Richards will have charge of the meeting. The subject will be “Progress in Science in Russia.”

Mesdames C. L. and W. R. Gray spent a while last week with Mrs. Misenheimer, in Charlotte, attending the Chautauqua.

Miss Eloise Martin very delightfully entertained a number of friends at her home last Saturday evening.

Rev. P. Davidson a few days ago, looking after the renovating of his house.

H. Spence was a visitor in town.

In the absence of their pastor, Dr. Hobson, Dr. Arbuckle spoke at Bethel Presbyterian church Sunday morning, and at Cornelius Sunday afternoon.

Mrs. Brawley was a visitor of Miss Julia Johnson during the past week.

Miss Mattie Sparrow was a weekend visitor of Mrs. Barnes.

Hudnall, of the West Virginia Polytechnic Institute, was the guest of Dr. Lingle the first part of the week.

HIGH SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT

The graduating exercises of the local

News and Happenings

Sophs Victorious In Class Baseball Defeating Juniors.

In a fast and well-played game, the Sophomores defeated the Juniors Monday afternoon by the score of 4 to 2. This was the deciding game of the class series, and by virtue of their victory, the Sophomores are champions for this year. The Sophs started the scoring in the first inning, when with one out Huffstetler was hit by a pitched ball. Fowle forced him at second, but Walker doubled to the fence and scored Fowle. The Juniors came back strong in the third when with one out Reese singled to right and Paisley was safe on an error. B. White was equal to the occasion and tripled to center, scoring Reese and Paisley. The Sophomores tied the score in their half of the inning on a double by McCloy and a single by Fowle. In the sixth the Sophs scored two more runs on a single by Walker, a double by Richardson and a single by Sprunt. The Juniors started a rally in the ninth when Porter, firstMan up. Tripled, but McKeithen tightened up and prevented a score. The outstanding features of the game were the hitting of Walker and the pitching of McKeithen for the Sophs. The batteries were McKeithen and Fowle for the Sophs, and White and White for the Juniors.

OFFICERS AND MEMBERS ELECTED BY POLITY CLUB

On last Wednesday afternoon, the local Polity Club held a business meeting in the Pi Kappa Phi hall. R. H. Ratchford was elected president for next year, and W. Y. Savad vice president. J. A. Thames was re-elected secretary and treasurer, and Professors Currie and Fulton were re-elected faculty councilors. W. H. Neal was chosen as the club's delegate to the 1916 Conference on International Relations, which is to be held at the Western Reserve University, Cleveland, O., from June 21st to July 1st. Thames was elected as alternate. The following men were elected to membership in the club: H. Henderson, S. R. Keesler, P. Price, and W. C. Cumming.

BATTING AVERAGES FOR THE SEASON

High school exercises were held last Monday evening. The exercises proper were preceded by contests in declamation and recitation, which were won by Jesse Reid and Sarah Hamilton, respectively. The following program was then rendered: Song, "Welcome Sweet Springtime"; Salutatory, Carl Cathey; Class History, Sam Brady; Class Prophecy, Rufus Johnston; Will, Douglas Brown; Valedictory, Mamie Johnston. Prof. A. Currie delivered an interesting and instructive address on “The Value of Reading as a Means of Higher Education.” Diplomas were then presented to the following graduates: Mamie Johnston, Carl Cathey, Annie Reid, Marie Johnston, Rufus Johnston, Sam Brady, Douglas Brown. Certificates were awarded to Jesse Reid and Roy Holler.

No. 31

Last Game of Season Results in Victory at Hands of Locals.

Davidson closed her 1916 baseball season Thursday by defeating Washington and Lee University 13 to 2, making a total of fifteen victories and three defeats in games with other colleges. The Red and Black outclassed the Generals in all departments and were not seriously threatened in any period of the game. Hengeveld went the full route for Davidson, having the visitors at his mercy throughout. He allowed but five hits, scattered through as many innings, and struck out ten of the W. & L. sluggers. Washington and Lee made her total number of runs in the fourth on a pass, Barrett's triple, and an error by Johnson. Graham, the visitor's twirler, was hit hard and showed a good deal of wildness, the Davidson sluggers finding him for 11 hits for a total of 20 bases. He pitched well in the pinches, however, and had it not been for miserable support, the score would have undoubtedly been much closer. Black was the hitting star of the game. He contributed a single, triple, and home run out of five trips to the plate. Wood also hit well, getting two out of four. Brown celebrated the closing of his baseball career at Davidson by accepting three hard chances and getting a single and double out of three times up. Barrett and Jones led the hitting for the Generals, getting two hits apiece, but their unsteadiness in the field contributed largely to their team’s defeat. Calloway caught a good game for Washington and Lee, while Captain Alford played his usual stellar game behind the bat for Davidson.

Score by innings: R. H.
Davidson . . 004 204 12x—13 11 2
W. & L.... . 000 200 000— 2 5 10

Summary: Two-base hits: Hengeveld and Brown; three-base hits: Black, McMillan, and Barrett; home run: Black; stolen bases: Jones and Brown (2), Black, Younger, Wood; sacrifice hit: Hengeveld; left on bases: Davidson 4, W. & L. 7; struck out: by Hengeveld 10, by Graham 7; bases on balls: by Hengeveld 2, Graham 3; double plays: Vance to Calloway, Jones to Bryan; time of game: 1:50; attendance: 500; umpire: Cranford.

RISING SOPHOMORE CLASS ACTION

One of the most significant signs of the feeling on the campus regarding any forms of organized hazing is to be seen in the action of the rising Sophomores—the present Freshman class. At a meeting of the class for the election of officers for next year and consideration of other matters, the question was brought up of what the attitude of the class would be in regard to this question when they returned next Fall. The question was discussed by different members, and the class went on record as stating that they will uniformly follow out the previous action of the student body in this matter—which is, that hazing in all its forms shall be abolished, and that they will as a class see that order is preserved.