The DAVIDSONIAN, May 10, 1916

For Sale - SEABOARD MILEAGE BOOK
1000 Miles Intra-State Mileage, $15.00
DAVIDSON COLLEGE MAGAZINE
J. G. Patton, Business Manager

ATTENTION! ALUMNI!
The committee on commencement plans for the alumni call attention to the fact that now is the time to write your college day friends for an engagement on the hill May 28th to 31st. You are reminded also that each one should notify the entertainment committee as soon as possible that you are coming so that arrangements may be made for your room. It is expected that the students will move out of one dormitory which will be used as headquarters and bureau of information for the alumni. Someone will be on hand all the time at the “ask me” booth and everything possible will be done to make the old fellows feel at home. The present Student Body, a live bunch of fellows, promise, crossing their fingers on it, that the alumni shall not be “freshed.” College “feeds” as in your day are still a fad. The program this year includes a banquet for Tuesday evening at 6:30 p.m. (regular supper hour). The Alumni Association meeting which has customarily been held on Tuesday afternoon at 3 o'clock will be held at this banquet. Every alumnus on the hill should let this hour have right of way. The secret has leaked out that a prominent caterer from Charlotte has been employed to serve the banquet, and the information is passed on so that dyspepsia tablets may not be forgotten when the grip is being packed. The menu indicates that fifty cents, which will be the price of your ticket, will certainly buy four bits’ worth. Remittance may be made in the most convenient way either by check or coin and should be sent in as soon as your plans for coming are definite. Prof. Jno. L. Douglas is chairman of the entertainment committee, and will be glad to have you write him that you will be here and have a part in making this a record commencement.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS
The Orchestra and Glee Club have elected the following officers for next year: F. H. Baker, director, and A. T. Cashion, manager. The prospects for a good organization are very promising and the management desires that every man be on the lookout this summer for men of musical ability. There is a splendid field for music here and no reason why there should not be a band as well as an orchestra. If the students would show a little interest one could be established in connection with the proposed military training next year.

KEESLER ELECTED PRESIDENT
At a meeting of the student body last Friday, S. R. Keesler, '17, after a close race with J. P. Laird, was elected president of the student body for next year, to take the place of A. B. Reese, Jr. who resigned. According to the point honor system which allows a man only nine points at one time, Reese could not hold the position of manager of the football team and president of the student body.

Dr. W. J. Martin left Monday for North Wilkesboro, where he will deliver an address at the commencement of the North Wilkesboro High School.

A YEAR OF SPLENDID WORK BY Y. M. C. A.
A MASTERFUL PICTURE
The LIFE of William Shakespeare
Wherein the Great Bard “STRUTS and FRETS HIS HOUR UPON THE FILM”
The story of his life, mellowed with romance and reflecting the spirit of the greatest genius that ever builded with words.
This Picture Will Be Shown at Davidson
The time and place to be announced later.best years of its work on the campus. Under the leadership of W. G. Somerville, the association has accomplished much in the influence which it has exerted on the campus and the service which has been rendered both on the campus and in the territory surrounding the college. Among the student body, very effective personal work has been prosecuted and classes for the study of the Bible and mission problems were well attended throughout the year. In work outside the bounds of the campus, night schools have been conducted and Sunday schools established and supplied with teachers. In addition, a boys' club in the town has also been conducted. In the Fall Evangelistic Campaign, which was led by Dr. Chapman and Mr. Alexander, very effective work was done among the students and the influence of the meetings has been felt throughout the year in the work of the Association. The program of weekly meetings for the year was made with a view to having various subjects presented which were of benefit and profit, and these were presented by both students, faculty members, and prominent speakers from other places. Early in the fall, a Social Center was opened where the boys could feel free to “loaf” and read, and games were also installed. In January, the president, W. G. Somerville, found it necessary to leave college, and the vice-president, J. G. Patton, took up the work and carried it forward for the rest of the term.

THE ANNUAL

Although the work of preparing the Annual for publication has unavoidably been delayed, it is now being pushed forward rapidly, and in a very satisfactory manner, as the proof which has been returned indicates. The 1916 volume of “Quips and Cranks” represents a great deal of thought and labor on the part of the editor-in-chief and his associates, who are confident of accomplishing their ambition, as expressed last fall, of publishing the best Annual Davidson has ever had. In addition to being larger than ever before, it contains an entirely new department, which will add greatly to its value as a depiction of college life. All of the regular departments have been worked over carefully, the aim throughout being to show the college life not in its somber colors, but in its lighter and more attractive phases. Both the literary and artistic staff have striven constantly for this end, and as the result of their efforts, every sign points to a volume which will be a source both of pleasure and pride.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle attended an interesting meeting of the State Chemical Society last week at A. & M. College, in Raleigh. One of the interesting features of the meeting was the proposal of a remedy for the distressing effect of cotton seed meal on stock as a food. A good dye process, which may do much towards solving the dye trouble, discovered by an American chemist, was also discussed.

Benefit the Shakespearean Celebration of Senior Class at Commencement

SUBSCRIBE NOW

DO YOU WANT SIX-Page DAVIDSONIAN NEXT YEAR FOR THE SAME PRICE? If so, send in your subscription at once. Put it off and you will neglect to do it. Subscribe NOW and both of us will be benefited. Send a dollar at once to J. C. PAISLEY, Circulation Mgr.

ARE YOU HOT? COME TO JETTON DRUG CO. And Enjoy the BEST Line of Cold Drinks Going. Ice Cream Cones a Specialty. THE BEST OF Service GUARANTEED.

Forget Your Troubles AT THE PALACE THEATRE And be one of the millions who enjoy Universal Programs. Pastime ladled out from 7:15 to 12:00 for 10 Cents Per Each.

COMMENCEMENT COPYING New Machine. Prompt Delivery and Extra Quality. R.H. STONE : : 2258 W. Chambers