The DAVIDSONIAN, November 1, 1916

WITH THE ALUMNI

Troop “B" cavalry—one of the crack groups of the division, “Fitz” is just as graceful in the saddle as he used to be.

Rev. T. H. Watkins, ‘98, now of Shelby, N. C., was a visitor to the college on Saturday. During most of the time since graduation he has been located in Missouri, and this is his first visit here since that time. Another visitor during last week was C. G. Vardell, ‘88, who is now President of Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N. C.

GROESCHEL-HOWELL

The following from the Observer will be of interest to the friends of George A. Howell, Jr., of Charlotte, who is now traveling representative for the National Biscuit Co.: “Mrs. Joseph Groeschel, of Atlanta, announces the marriage of her daughter, Lotta Marie, to George Augustus Howell, Jr., of Charlotte, on Wednesday, October 25th, in Atlanta.”

GRAHAM-SMALLWOOD

“An engagement and wedding of state-wide interest to society is that of Miss Annie Cameron Graham, daughter of Maj. John W. Graham and Mrs. Graham, of Hillsboro, and Robert Smallwood, of New York.” The above announcement appeared recently in the Charlotte Observer. Mr. Smallwood is a Davidson alumnus, class of ‘06, who afterward studied architecture at Columbia University, and now has offices at 569 Fifth Ave., New York.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Hashagen of Wilmington, stopped over at the college on Saturday, en route home after a bridal trip to Asheville and other resorts in western North Carolina. Mr. Hashagen is a member of the class of ‘07 and was married to Miss Susan Urquhart, of Savannah, Ga., on October 8th.

Announcement was made by Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., President of the Alumni Association, at the Davidson College Day exercises, that the Association will at the close of each college year present to the member of the Freshman class attaining the highest average in his studies, a gold medal.

Dr. R. Reid, ‘07, is to open up an office on Vanderbilt Ave., East 42nd St., New York City.

Dr. F. P. Ramsay, ‘79, of Tulsa, Okla., has accepted the chair of English in Lenox College, at Hopkinton, Iowa.

J. W. Todd, Jr., ‘09, of Laurens, S. C., was married October 4th to Miss Keturah Richards, of Liberty Hill, S. C., a niece of Dr. C. M. Richards.

DR. J. W. MacCONNELL WRITES OF EXPERIENCES

In answer to numerous inquiries from the students and others as to the present mobilization on the border, I will give the itinerary of our North Carolina unit for the past month. We moved from Camp Glenn, N. C., on the coast, the latter part of September, in ten long special trains, each regiment being routed over a different railroad system. My detachment, Field Hospital No. 1, was entrained with Ambulance Co. 1 and Troops “A” and “B” cavalry. It was a long heavy train and we were five days making the trip, being routed by the Atlantic Coast Line via Savannah. The trip was unusually pleasant throughout, for being a military train, we could stop whenever the commanding officer thought it best for the men. The train was composed of tourist sleepers, and one standard Pullman. We stopped a few hours each at Savannah, Montgomery, and San Antonio. At each place the men were given “setting up” exercises and a march around the city, and then left to their own pleasure for sight-seeing. At Lake Charles, La., we stopped for two hours, and everyone went in for a swim. All the troops reached El Paso in good shape and without accident. The railroads have shown wonderful efficiency in handling troops, and when we think of the unusual distances, we can point with pride to our transportation. Our journey covered over 2,300 miles, and when we consider that the soldiers from the Northern States traveled much further, and that the handling of 140,000 troops over such distances has been done without the loss of a man, our system compares well with the European efficiency we hear so much about.

El Paso, Texas, is one of the military bases for any contemplated movement into Mexico. It is a city of 85,000, with plenty of Western hustle to it. Over 45,000 soldiers are camped there, and this adds to business. Our unit is in the Seventh Division with Pennsylvania troops, and we have a fine camp. Altitude 4,000 feet, clear days, cold nights. All the men are in excellent health. Some of the units are composed in great part of college men and are a fine sight. This is true of such troops as the engineers, signal corps, and hospital outfits. It is a sight to be remembered to see 45,000 troops, with all the accompanying artillery, cavalry, and transport, at drill on the plains. The Mexican outposts are in sight, but there seems to be no reason to expect war, although we are prepared for it. It is the writer's opinion, based on reliable information and observation, that the President has seen the Mexican affair in its proper perspective. The bandit raids are just such raids as we had in this country in frontier days, and are not any occasion for war. The Mexicans need teachers and missionaries. There were women and children starving and dying of typhus in sight of us—across the river in Juarez.border needs a guard, and it has it. And the troops will be kept there until danger is passed. There is a good sprinkling of Davidson men doing their duty there, and all of them are measuring up to the high standard expected of them. Lieut. R. R. Morrison, '02, battalion adjutant 1st Regiment, is on duty in Jacksonville with the rifle team. A. M. Siler ('Doc') is also with the rifle team as he has been promoted to 2nd lieutenant in his machine gun company. Capt. Miles Abernethy, '06, is in the 3rd Reg. Hospital Corps. He is another expert marksman, but medical officers cannot compete. Capt. Don Scott, '05, is regimental adjutant. Nimmocks, Porter, and Morgan are doing good service, as are Louis Johnston, Douglas Brown, and Lamont Field from town. Archie Baker and A. T. Carroll are in the hospital corps of S. C. James Allen, one of our finest debaters and a leading young lawyer of Charleston, is in the Charleston Light Dragoons, a famous old cavalry troop. John McSween is chaplain of the 2nd S. C., with the rank of lieutenant. Warner DuBose, '05, is in charge of one of the Y. M. C. A. buildings and is doing excellent work. The Y. M. C. A. work on the border is well organized and is abundantly supplied with funds from the Rockefeller Foundation. Rufo Fitzpatrick, '02, is first lieutenant fullback on the Davidson team. All in all, the men on the border are getting the best of training in a country that is a health resort, and all of them will return in better physical condition on account of the service.

Jno. W. MacCanseu.

TO WRITERS OF DAVIDSONIAN ARTICLES

Below are given some of the most important instructions and suggestions for writing articles for The Davidsonian. It is hoped that these will be preserved by all reporters and others who are called upon from time to time to write special articles for the paper. By following these suggestions one can gain considerable experience in newspaper writing, and also relieve the editors of considerable unnecessary work.

1. Typewrite all articles, if possible.
2. Write legibly and leave a good space between each line.
3. Remember that one article on time is worth ten behind time.
4. Leave a wide margin at the top of the paper so that headlines may be put in by the managing editor. Don't try to headline your article.

THINGS TO BE AVOIDED

5. Don't use "we" in an article. That is the editor's privilege.
6. Don't fail to put an alumnus' year of graduation when you mention one, thus: A.B. Brown, '07. Or if he was not graduated with the class of which he was a member, thus: John Jones, ex '11. Don't use parentheses, only commas.
7. Don't use long, involved sentences. In newspaper writing, one short, concise, clear sentence is worth three long ones.
8. Don't forget to begin your article with the most important incident or the most important phase of the article that you are writing.
9. Don't put a person's initials after his name, but J. H. Jones, not Jones, J. H.
10. Don't use abbreviations, but write out all words.
11. Don't forget that you are a reporter, that this means business, and that you are expected to "have a nose" for news all of the time, and to turn in any items that you find to the Assignment Editor, so that he can have them covered.
12. Don't fail to read, when you have a chance, some of the library books on journalism.
13. Don't forget that good, punctual, earnest work will put you on The Davidsonian staff.

BOOKS ON NEWSPAPER WORK

"Practical Journalism" — (1) "The Plan of a News Story," pages 59-72; (2) "A Chapter on Errors," pages 169-180.
"Making a Newspaper" — (1) "How the Reporters Work," pages 153-188; (2) "Writing a Newspaper Story," pages 189-218.
"Making a Journalist" — (1) "Get What You Are Sent For," pages 26-34.
"Newspaper Writing and Editing" — (1) "News and News Values," page 97; (2) "Structure and Style in News Stories," page 60; (3) "Speeches and Interviews," page 126; (4) "Special News," page 161; (5) "Editing Copy," page 255.

Hand in your article to the editor whose name is on your assignment sheet. If you cannot cover an article, let the assignment editor know at once, so another man may be put on it.

Visiting C. R. Jenkins, Jr. ('17), on last Saturday, were Mr. and Mrs. R. Jenkins and Miss Jenkins, Charleston, S. C.

CONTENTMENT

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor "freak" styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

You are cordially invited to inspect our premises at the cleanest shop in North Carolina.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists : Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty.
Gilbert & Patterson, Agents

GENTLEMEN

WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. M. Patterson, - - Representative