The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. First Game of Season DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 27, 1916. No. 3

Tennis Prospects Good | News and Happenings | Annual Fall Campaign With Virginia Saturday; At Davidson This Year | Of
the Week in Town | Begins Friday Morning Tournament Begins Soon--Several | Social and Personal Items About | Arrangements Have
Been Com- Red and Black to Meet a Formid- able Opponent.

This week marks the close of the preliminary football training season at Davidson and the opening of the regular schedule
in a game with the strong University of Virginia team. The Student Body is looking forward with great pleasure to
this opening contest, and there seems to be a generally prevalent feeling here that the Red and Black machine will
put up a worthy Davidson fight on Saturday. Although it is impossible to give a comparison as to the relative
strength of the two teams, it is safe to say that the Blue and Gold squad will outweigh Davidson by
ten or fifteen pounds. Davidson rarely ever gets out a heavy team, and this year will be no exception. The
squad from which those who make the trip to Virginia will be picked will probably average between 155 and 160
pounds. Coach Fetzer has been working his squad steadily during the past week, and will depend on speed and fight
to offset the obvious disadvantage in weight. Black, Lawson, and Walker, of last year’s Varsity, are still out of the
game, and at least two of them may not be able to enter the Virginia contest. Besides these, several of
the members of the Varsity squad were more or less seriously injured in Saturday's scrub game. While these injuries have
been no small setback to Coach Fetzer in the development of the team, there is no reason for too much
pessimism, as the present squad is composed of much promising material. Coach Fetzer has stated that the men going on
the Virginia trip will not be selected until after practice Friday afternoon. However, some of the leading aspirants for positions
are as follows: In the line, Captain White, Grey, Sayad, T. L. White, T. A. Finley, Pharr, Shaw, Robeson, Crouch,
and Knight. Those who seem to have the choice as ends are “Bob” Walker, King, Paisley, McKinnon, Watkins, Flowers, and
Monroe. The contenders for the backfield are especially numerous and promising. Keesler, Black, “Steve” Walker, Burns, Laird, Crouch, McAlister, Spahn,
Singleton, and Lawson are all good backfield men, and with fair support from the line, a backfield from this bunch
can do great things. The team will leave Friday night, arriving at Charlottesville at 8 o'clock the following morning. If
possible, a private car will be chartered for the use of the squad on this trip.

AT VIRGINIA

At Charlottesville, the University of Virginia squad is being put through some strenuous workouts in preparation for the opening game
with Davidson, from all accounts. The Virginians are handicapped by the loss of many of the Varsity men of last
year, and Coach Evans is trying many shifts in an effort to fill up the gaps. This task is doubly
difficult, as Freshmen are ineligible for the team. The line-up that will probably start the game against the Red and
Black is as follows: Churchman, center; Coleman and McKay, guards; Blakey and Ward, tackles; Goodwin and Kinsolving, ends; Good Players
Here.

The prospects for a successful year in tennis are unusually bright this year. There seems to be a wealth of
material from both the old men and Freshmen. Saunders, last year's singles champion, is back and will again try for
the title. Alford and Saunders won the doubles championship last year, but Alford failed to return to college, and Saunders
will probably pair up with T. A. Finley this year. M. S. Kennedy, last year’s runner-up in doubles, is also
back, and will be paired with R. G. Reed, who won the South Carolina intercollegiate a year or two ago.
The tennis courts are being put in shape as rapidly as possible, and the annual fall tournament to determine the
tennis team will begin in the near future. It is hoped that there will be a large number of entrants
this year. At a meeting of the tennis association, held recently, A. P. Saunders was elected president and M. S.
Kennedy was elected manager of the tennis team.

MR. SHIVE ELECTED TO IMPORTANT OFFICE

After a strenuous year of work as field secretary of Davidson College, Rev. T. C. Shive has accepted the presidency
of Albemarle Normal and Industrial Institute, Albemarle, N. C. He is well fitted for this work, and should meet with
success in this new field. It was largely through the aid of Mr. Shive that the campaign conducted last year
for additional endowment and a gymnasium building was successful, and the good wishes of the Student Body go with him
in his new work.

NEWS FROM GAMES BY WIRE

An arrangement has been made by which the Student Body will receive telegraphic returns of all the games played off
the Hill this year. The score and a fifty-word synopsis of the game will be received after each quarter. These
returns are to be sent as regular telegraphic matter, and will be sent as promptly as possible. This arrangement will
undoubtedly be a source of great enjoyment and satisfaction to the students, and is certainly a progressive move.

ANNUALS HERE SOON

After a delay of four months, a com- title a the Town People. Dr. T. W. Lingle’s family will be
home this week fromMontreat. ° e ° Rev. S. H. Hay, pastor of the Mooresville Presbyterian church, spent Monday with
Dr. Richards. e e e Dr. T. W. Lingle preached at Prospect church last Sunday, and Professor Currie is to
hold services there next Sunday. e e e Prof. J. B. Wharey, ‘92, of the University of Texas, with Mrs.
Wharey, has been visiting his sisters, the Mrs. Greys, for some days. ¢ e * Miss Lois Smith is teaching
at Star, N.C. e e * Miss Clara Smith has returned from Statesville, where she has been under medical treatment.
¢ * e Mr. J. D. Gillespie, recently superintendent of schools at this place, and now a student at Columbia
Seminary, visited friends at Davidson last week. * * * Mrs. Young, of North Main street, has gone to Charlotte
for medical treatment. She was accompanied by her daughters, Misses Lizzie and Mary Young. * * * Mr. Johnson, whose
family lives at Davidson, has been at Kavala, Greece, for some months, in the employ of the American Tobacco Company.
* * * The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with Miss Lizzie Young, Friday afternoon. . . . Miss Lois
Neal left Saturday to spend the week in Charlotte; from there she went to Florida, where she will spend the
winter. ° ° ° Miss Mildred Finlayson, of Charlotte, recently spent a few days with Miss Frances Worth. e e
e Miss Lula Grey, principal of the Statesville College for Women, spent Sunday with her brother, Dr. W. R. Grey.
. ° . Mrs. A. L. Hobbs has been quite ill for some days. * * * Dr. Grey was
absent from several of his classes last week on account of illness. A communication was recently received from the publishers
of the 1916 Annual, asking for definite shipping instructions. Assuming that there will be no further delays, the Annuals should
arrive in Davidson before the end of the week, as the publishers stated they would be ready to ship by
September 23rd. Carrington, quarter; White and Gooch, halves; and Sparr, fullback. McKay, guard, is an old Davidson player, and will
no doubt give a good account of himself against his former teammates. * * * The latest news from Miss
Ellenwood is that she and her mother will probably not occupy their winter home here till after Christmas. * *
* Invitations have been received by friends here to the marriage of Rev. T. K. Currie to Miss Lilian Blair
Cary, of Richmond, Va., October 12th. Mr. Currie is a member of the class of 1918, and is a brother
of Prof. Archibald Currie. * * * The annual evangelistic campaign of the Y. M. C. A. will begin Friday
morning and continue through Sunday, October 1st. Mr. Charles G. Hounshell, traveling secretary for the Student Volunteer Movement, will conduct
the meetings, and the music will be led by Rev. H. F. Morton, of Roanoke Rapids, N. C. In addition,
there will be several other capable men to assist in the personal interviews. The arrangements for the meetings will be
practically the same as those of last year. Chapel will not be held in the early morning on Friday and
Saturday. Classes will begin at 8:30 as usual and continue until 11 a.m., at which time all of the students
will be required to assemble in the chapel, just as is required for chapel services. At this time the morning
meeting will be held, lasting an hour. At the conclusion of the meeting, classes will be resumed till 1:30 p.m.
All of the regular classes will be held on the days on which they are scheduled, but each of them
will be shortened ten minutes to allow time for the morning meeting. The afternoon will be devoted to interviews and
conferences for the students who may want to discuss any matters with either Mr. Hounshell, Mr. Morton, or the other
leaders. The night service will also be held in Shearer Hall at 7:30 o'clock. On Saturday the same program will
be followed as outlined above for Friday. On Sunday, Mr. Hounshell will address the congregation at both the morning and
evening services of the church, and the meetings will be brought to a close on Sunday night. The meeting of
the Y. M. C. A. on Thursday night, at which Dr. Arbuckle will speak, will be in the nature of
an introductory meeting for the campaign.

LOCAL PUBLIC SCHOOL OPENS FOR YEAR’S WORK

The Davidson Public School recently opened with an enrollment of 210 students, thirty-five of this number being enrolled in the
High School department. It is hoped, however, that the number will increase considerably within the next few days. The teachers
for this year are as follows: Miss Withers, first grade; Miss Julia Johnston, second grade; Miss Essie Jetton, third grade;
Misses Jones and Roddy, fourth, fifth and sixth grades; Miss Maude Vinson and Professor Johnston, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
grades. The four higher grades will be divided into departments this year for the first time. Miss Roddy, of Rock
Hill, S. C., is to take Miss Hood's place. Miss Hood will teach at Florence, S. C., this year. The
new building was not begun as hoped, but the old one has been renovated and kalsomined and will serve very
well for this year. It is hoped, however, that a new one will be ready for next year. The present
outlook for the school this year is very good.
