The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II. Splendid Sermons Delivered Sunday Dr. Sentelle and Dr. McClure Address Seniors and Y. M. C. A.

BACCALAUREATE SERMON.

A few minutes before 11 o’clock Sunday morning, forty-two Seniors in cap and gown marched from Shearer Hall to the church, to the seats reserved for them in front of the pulpit. After Scripture reading and the invocation by Rev. A. W. Crawford of Greensboro, Dr. Richards introduced Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Professor of English Bible, Psychology, and Philosophy at Davidson, the speaker of the morning, saying that no finer tribute was ever paid to any man than was being paid by the Senior class to one who loved and taught them.

Dr. Sentelle spoke from the text, “And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus: for He shall save His people from their sins.” In olden times, all names had meanings, just so “Jesus” meant salvation. Men can help to alleviate the “poison at the fountain head of life—sin.” God’s process for saving man was a long one and of a specific kind. Jesus did not come into the world to save men from poverty only, nor from temporal things, but from those infections and barriers of the inner life. Jesus saw that the chief trouble of man was sin. There cannot be Eden’s glory without Eden’s sinlessness. The work of man is altruistic beneficence, analogous to that of the Son of man. It is not those things which come into one’s life which make one good but that which comes out. The flower which absorbs all the sun rays which touch it is black and unsightly, but the flower which reflects and sends out all its light rays is seen as beautiful and pure. Selfishness is that which makes a man sordid and mean. The most miserable man in all the world is he who feels that what he gives is of no account and is not appreciated. Man is great because he has given to the world some invention which relieves suffering; the patriot who suffers for his country is great. Men are entering upon a task far more difficult than conquering natural forces. This task is the accomplishment of the obeisance of the potent social forces. In this, there is something to test the mental and moral fiber. Men who go into this work will find it difficult. I urge you not to be content in work of superficiality for man, but build character, the lack of which causes suffering. We, as Davidson men, must not be content to bring fine things into life, but that which is finest and best. In the heart of man is the only place where God does not reign and rule supreme. He has possession of the forces of nature. How is man to be brought to God? God has ordained a God-ordained power, which is the vehicle of personal life and witness. God does not use superficial means. If there is any real goodness in life, it will transform the sordid with which it comes in contact into its own perfect beauty. He concluded the discourse with a strong personal appeal. In the world, we will find many who are weak and heavy laden. We can do little to relieve them.

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JUNE 1, 1916.

President and Mrs. Wilson and Dr. Martin as they emerged from the Chambers Building on their way to the Eumenean Society Hall. The view of Mrs. Martin, at the side of Mrs. Wilson, is obstructed.

President Woodrow Wilson Visits His First Alma Mater

Distinguished Former Davidson Student Sees His Old Room and Literary Society Hall.

Davidson, always proud of her alumni and former students, is doubly proud of one of her former students, Woodrow Wilson, who is today of world-wide fame because of the admirable way in which he has directed the affairs of the American nation during the past two years of unprecedented crises. And this pride for the President was never more manifest or more in evidence on the part of students, faculty, and townpeople than when he paid his alma mater a visit, though brief, on the evening of the Twentieth of May.

Not until the morning of the Twentieth, when the celebration in Charlotte was in full swing, was it known even to Dr. Martin, the president of the college, that Mr. Wilson had definitely decided to visit Davidson while on his Charlotte trip. The President’s refusal to allow Dr. Martin to precede the Presidential party to the college shows how very informal Mr. and Mrs. Wilson desired their visit to Davidson to be. Despite all efforts to keep the President’s visit a secret, the news that he would leave the crowds in Charlotte in the afternoon and motor up to Davidson, in some way gained currency, and when he arrived at Davidson quite a few from the town and community were on hand to greet him. The Presidential party, consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, Dr. and Mrs. Martin, and secret service men, were driven up the street facing theCampus and around the driveway to the Chambers building. Alighting from their car, the President indicated to Dr. Martin his desire to visit his old room, number 13 Chambers, now occupied by A. L. Young and H. B. Craig, of Mecklenburg County. Although “Tom” Wilson had been away from Davidson for forty-five years, he showed no hesitancy in designating the location of his old room. After viewing the room, he remarked to Mrs. Wilson and the other members of the party that “it seemed very familiar.” Pointing out of the window, he showed the place where, while a student, he cut the wood used in heating his room. From his old room, Mr. Wilson and the party went to the Eumenean Society hall, of which he was a member. Of the general appearance of the hall, he remarked to Dr. Martin that “it was substantially what it was when he knew it, except that the seats were different.” Being asked for a speech as he appeared on the balcony facing the hall, the President said: “I was just confessing to Dr. Martin that this is one place that I cannot make a speech. I have tried here before.” While the party was in the society hall, the students gave college yells for the President and Mrs. Wilson. The President's visit to Davidson, the first ever paid to the college by any President, is an event long to be remembered by those who were privileged to see and meet him on the campus. Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, just before leaving, expressed to Dr. and Mrs. Martin, whose guests they were, their deep interest and pleasure at being able to visit Davidson, the President’s first alma mater.

The following is taken from an issue of The Davidsonian dated December 9, 1914:

“Davidson men are proud that their college could, with but one year’s training, place in the Presidential chair a man who has left such a worthy record behind him. The record he left here is no less worthy than that of later years. The old college records in the library show the following grades:

“In the Fall: Excused absences, 2; Logic and Rhetoric, 95; Greek, 87; Latin, 90; Math., 74; Composition, 96; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average, 87.67 percent.

“In the Spring: (On account of sickness) Excused absences from prayers, 44; Excused absences from church, 3; Excused absences from recitations, 66; English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94; Composition, 95; Declamation, 92; Deportment, 100; Average, 93.42 percent; Average for the year, 91.50 percent.”

Program Reaches Climax Wednesday Diplomas Given to Graduates. Oratorical Contest.

SENIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST.

The annual contest between the Seniors for the Senior Orator’s Medal was held Wednesday morning between the three men chosen last fall and the three highest honor men. W. G. Morrison was the successful contestant. His subject was “The Defects in the Present College Education.” Morrison discussed briefly the present ideas as to the trouble with our colleges. He pointed out that the unrestricted elective system was a menace to a college. Also, he suggested that a business and current event course be added to the curriculum. He closed his speech with a plea for the democratic spirit among faculty and students in the college.

The opening speech of the morning was made by H. Morrison. His salutatory address was short and to the point. He invited the audience to hear the other speakers and also to enjoy the Faculty-Senior baseball game scheduled for the afternoon.

J. D. McLeod, under the subject of “A Retrospect,” reviewed the history of Poetry, Oratory, Sculpture, and Science. He showed in each case where our knowledge of each subject was due directly to the Greeks.

J. M. McBryde outlined the Negro problem in the South under the subject, “The Aryan’s Birthright.” He showed the increasing number of Negro farmers and comparatively small increase in white farmers and then suggested race segregation as the way to handle the situation.

V. E. Smith spoke on “Rifts in the War Clouds.” His was a peace address. After pointing out that all wars are followed by peace, he showed how this great conflict must necessarily be followed by a convention for the establishment of peace. He also suggested the United States as the possible country to have this convention.

R. Perry discussed the methods of training in Germany and their results. His subject was “The Weltpolitik of Germany.” He showed how every German had such a high respect and expected much from the fatherland and how faithful they were to her. He then said that there were thousands of Germans in this country that call for our attention in preparedness.

DEGREES CONFERRED.

After the usual formal ceremonies, the degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred upon twenty-two men, the candidates presented by Dr. T. W. Lingle:

M. R. Adams, Statesville, N.C.
R. H. Bennett, Trenton, Tenn.
J. H. Carson, Charlotte, N.C.
L. A. Crawford, Greensboro, N.C.
S. M. Crisp, Crisp, N.C.
L. G. Edgerton, Suffolk, Va.

(Continued on page 4)