The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. XLII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 29, 1916.

International Problems Discussed In Lecture
Dr. Sioussatt the Speaker Here Monday Night.

Dr. St. G. Sioussatt, professor of History at Vanderbilt University, after being fittingly introduced by R. H. Ratchford, gave a lecture Monday night in the Eumenean Hall on Internationalism. Speaking from the viewpoint of history, he discussed some problems of international relations which are of most vital importance to our national life. Dr. Sioussatt said that to him the Pan-American Congress of December, 1915, which met at Washington, was a peculiarly interesting occasion, for there was a “visible evidence of effort being made to establish closer relations between nations of America. “The South Americans are coming to us whether we come to them or not.” He said further that this congress was a political rather than a scientific assembly, where many things were discussed, but the issue of paramount importance was that of international relations.

Of the many things which are to result from the war, Dr. Sioussatt predicted that our international relations would be stronger, provided that we have a great international spirit. It was then shown that this better spirit could not be had unless the effort of national life was put into it. As to the rebuilding of Europe he stressed the point that we are not so much to care for boundary lines as we are to care for the great social reconstruction. In conclusion, he enumerated the code of principles, given by Norman Angell, which should guide America in helping to form the future governments of the world. Dr. Sioussatt lectured under the auspices of the local International Polity Club, this being the second of a series of lectures on peace and international relations.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TO TAKE ANOTHER TRIP

The Orchestra and Glee Club are practicing daily in preparation for the next trip which begins Monday night, April 10th. On that night they give a concert at Queens College. Leaving Charlotte Tuesday morning, they will give a concert at Bennettsville, S. C., that evening. The next engagement is in Fayetteville, Wednesday. On the following night they give a concert at Flora McDonald College, Red Springs, returning to Davidson on Friday night. The men who will make the trip have not as yet been selected, but probably about eighteen members of the clubs will be chosen.

SOPH BANQUET TO BE HELD NEXT MONTH

R. B. McKee, manager of the Soph Banquet, states that owing to a misunderstanding with the managers of the Central Hotel the banquet will not be held there, but will be at the Selwyn Hotel. By getting the jitneys to put on some extra machines the fifty dollars necessary for the special train will be saved. The banquet will be Monday, April 10.

News and Happenings of the Week In Town

Social and Personal Items About Town People.

Mrs. Martin was sick with la grippe the latter part of last week.

Miss Cornelia Souther, of St. Louis, accompanied by her little nephew, Master E. Pendleton Tompkins, of Roanoke, Va., is spending a few days with her sister, Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

A hard-fought and very interesting basketball game between the Huntersville High School girls and the girls of the local school was witnessed last Friday afternoon by a large crowd. The final score was 18 to 16 in favor of the visitors.

Rev. J. C. Shive, the financial agent of the college, was recently in Greensboro, Faison, and other towns of the state.

Mrs. W. F. Hall, of Statesville, spent a few days last week with Dr. and Mrs. Richards.

Mrs. Cheatam, of Brevard, spent a short while with Miss Mamie Withers last week.

The little daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Eustace Sloop, of Spruce Pine, is visiting her cousins, Letitia and Lucile Currie.

Miss Graves, the physical director at Queens College, spent the weekend with Mrs. Paisley.

Mr. Johnson, an agent of the American Tobacco Company in Asiatic Turkey, is spending a few days with his father and mother.

Miss Young, of Queens, spent a day last week with Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle spent a few hours last week at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Luther McKinnon, at Clinton, N.C. Dr. McKinnon was president of Davidson College during the years 1885-87.

Misses Clara Armstrong, Ruth Lineberger, Lyda Rankin, Messrs. A. C. Lineberger, Jr., and Walter M. Hall, students of Belmont High School, spent Monday in the college library gathering material on the subject of preparedness, which will be debated in the triangle high school debates over the state Friday the 31st. H. A. Query, ‘09, superintendent of schools, accompanied them.

JUDGES SELECTED FOR ERSKINE DEBATE.

The following judges have been chosen for the Davidson-Erskine debate: Hon. J. H. Marion, attorney-at-law, Chester, S. C.; Prof. R. C. Barts, Superintendent of Schools, Rock Hill, S. C.; Prof. W. D. Muggins, Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C.; Hon. E. R. Preston, attorney-at-law, Charlotte, N. C. The names of the Davidson-Emory judges have not yet been learned.

In Class Basketball Five Games Have Been Played In Spring Series.

The spring season of class basketball was ushered in by a rough but exciting game between the Fresh and Sophs. It was anybody's game from beginning to end, but the Sophs rallied in the last few minutes of play and won by the score of 10 to 7. Both teams guarded closely, but were very weak in shooting goals. McAlister, for the Fresh, played an excellent defensive game, with Nimmocks leading onthe offense. For the Sophs, Therrel and Sprunt were in the game at all times. In a fast and exciting game, the Juniors were defeated by the Sophs to the tune of 25 to 16. Some real basketball was uncorked, and neither team resorted to rough tactics. Nisbet and Murray starred for the Juniors, the latter secured two goals and held his man to one. For the Sophs, Childs and Worth were the luminaries. In the third game of the series, the Juniors defeated the Fresh by the score of 20 to 2. Both teams showed up well both on offense and defense, and fought desperately for every point. For the Fresh, McAlister, Ports, and Hall played well, while Nisbet, White, and Murray starred for the Juniors. The Fresh upset the dope in the next game by defeating the strong Soph team by the score of 20 to 8. The Sophs were clearly outplayed in every department, which was partly due to the fact that they played football instead of basketball. Hall and McAskill, for the Fresh, played excellent ball, the former scoring five goals. For the Sophs, Mountcastle played best. In a close but hard-fought game, the Sophs defeated the Juniors Friday night by the score of 19 to 11. Nisbet, Price, and Laird, for the Juniors, were in the game at all times, while Childs, Sprunt, and Worth starred for the Sophs. The standing of the teams to date follows:

WON. LOST. PCT.
Sophs 3 1 .750
Juniors 2 2 .500
Fresh 1 3 .250

FINALS IN DECLAMATION CONTEST ARE HELD

The finals of the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest were held last night in Shearer Hall, at which time the winners of the medals offered in the respective societies were selected by a committee from the faculty. G. C. Bellingrath was the victor among the Eumenean men, while the Philanthropic medal goes to G. L. Webber. Three men from each society, previously chosen by means of a preliminary contest, delivered declamations last night. These were J. R. Woods, with a selection from Dickens, “The Tale of Two Cities;” G. C. Bellingrath, “Toombs' Farewell to the Senate;” and E. A. Solomons, “Defense of J. E. Cook,” from the Eumenean Society, and W. B. Knox, with the race scene from “Ben Hur;” J. B. Mallard, “Sergeant Prentiss’ First Plea;” and G. L. Webber, “Spartans and the Gladiators,” from the Philanthropic Society.

No. 24

Baseball Season Opens With Easy Victory

Catawba Meets Defeat at Hands of Local Team.

On Monday morning last, a hopeful, eager bunch of young gentlemen comprising the baseball nine of Catawba College came to town to cross bats with the Davidson boys. But that evening they took back with them memories of a frightful afternoon spent on the diamond, and a final 12 to 3 score chalked up against them on the scoreboard, with Davidson hanging to the long end. It was in the fifth inning. The score at that time stood 3 to 1 in Davidson's favor, and things all pointed to a close scrap. Both pitchers were going good, though Davidson had managed to touch up Rowe for three safeties, while the Catawba lads had found Lawson's slants to their liking only once. Well, in this memorable fifth, Jack Black led off and smacked his trusty war club against the pill for a clean one-sack bingle. Bennie Brown, following, met the ball with a savage poke which netted him two sacks, landing Black on third. Captain Alford next hit to a waiting Catawba infielder, who shot the ball home to head off the flying Black. Seeing that he was cut off, Jack stopped and began to argue with the Catawba catcher, finally persuading him that he didn’t want to make a put-out anyhow, so he generously allowed Jack to score. His teammates then proceeded to present Davidson with seven more runs. With no one out, and Johnson up for his second try in the inning, Rowe was derricked, and Wilson, who followed him, succeeded in letting the Davidson lads down without further damage in that inning, and in fact, was stingy with hits throughout the rest of the game. The final score was 12 to 3, Davidson. For Catawba, Whitner on third afforded two thrilling catches of fouls. F. Fesperman had the greatest luck with the willow, and made two hits out of four attempts, one of them a pretty two-bagger. For Davidson, Jack Black played a pretty game on third. He accepted seven straight chances without error, and it was only on his eighth chance that he spoiled his perfect record, a slightly low throw to first doing the damage. Wood and Johnson also played good ball, and Younger made one fine stab of a long fly in left field. With the stick, Johnson and Wood led the Davidson batsmen. Johnson made three singles in five times out, two of them being beat out on infield taps. Wood made two clean hits, one a double, in four tries. Although there were several errors chalked up against the players, they were not glaring ones. Lawson pitched excellent ball during the five innings in which he worked, and had his opponents in hand at all times. He allowed only one hit during this time, although Catawba made it count for their first run. Hengeveld and Currie, who followed Lawson, also pitched excellent ball, and were seldom in hot water. The game afforded local fans their first chance to see the 1916 Varsity in action, and a good crowd turned out to witness the game. The weather was not (Continued on page 4)