SHAKESPEAREAN PAGEANT PRESENTED MONDAY

On last Monday afternoon the artistic talent of Queens and Davidson College was combined in the presenting of a Shakespearean
pageant, on the back campus of Queens College. All of the characters were portrayed well, and it would be a
hard task to name the best. Although the affair was somewhat handicapped by the lack of costumes, still it proved
a great success, much of the praise for which is due to the excellent management. Through the kindness of the
Statesville Female College, several costumes were obtained for the more important characters. There was a large and attentive audience present
and everyone seemed pleased with the entertainment.

SCRUBS WIN FROM CHARLOTTE HIGHS

The Charlotte Highs lost to Davidson Scrubs Saturday, the score being 10 to 8. There was some good playing by
both teams at times, though the game was crowded with many errors and long drives. Davidson was at no time
in danger. Especially noticeable was the work of the Pharr brothers, Pharr of Charlotte catching well, and Pharr of Davidson
playing an errorless game at third. The batteries were: Shaw, Monteith, and Faires for Davidson, and Murray and Pharr for
Charlotte.

MINISTERIAL BAND ADOPTS NEW FEATURE

A new feature was recently introduced into the meetings of the Ministerial Band. One meeting out of the three each
month is devoted to the study of the life of a great reformer or preacher. This study is divided among
several members of the band, each one discussing some portion of his life. It is hoped that during this term
and next, practically all the biographies of the great reformers may be taken up separately and given careful study.

FIELD DAY ON MAY 6

The annual field day events will be held this year on Saturday afternoon, May 6th. This date will afford the
baseball men ample time in which to train for the contests. The events will be as follows: 100, 220, and
440-yard dashes; high and broad jumps; high and low hurdles; shot put; discus throw; and half-mile, one, and two-mile runs.
The hammer throw will be omitted this year, while the two-mile run has been added. Ornamented ribbons will be awarded
to all winners of first places, and a handsome gold medal will be given to the individual winning the highest
number of units.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE NEXT TUESDAY NIGHT

The finals for the Junior-Senior Debate will be held on the evening of May 2nd in Shearer Hall. The affirmative
side of the question: "Resolved, That an amendment should be made to the Federal Constitution, forbidding the sale of intoxicating
liquors in the United States," will be upheld by the following men of the Eumenean Society: A. R. Craig, R.
Perry, and L. G. Edgerton. H. W. Ormand, R. H. Ratchford, and J. D. McLeod will represent the Philanthropic Society
on the negative side of the question. The inter-society cup will be awarded to the winning team. This cup was
won last year by the Eumenean Society. In addition to the cup, a medal will be presented to the best
debater in each society. Prominent citizens of nearby towns will act as judges.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 26, 1916

GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED

We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars, and Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty. We appreciate your patronage.

FOUR GAMES ARE WON (Continued from page 1)

...back with three runs in the second. McMillan walked and Brown was safe on an error. Younger then came across
with a timely single, scoring McMillan and reaching second on the throw-in. Lawson, next man up, won his own game
with a Texas leaguer to left, scoring Brown. Davidson’s final run came in the sixth, by reason of three errors
and a single by McMillan. Wood and Johnson fielded especially well for Davidson, while Mobley was the particular star for
Furman, getting four hits out of as many trips to the plate.

Score by innings: R.
Davidson .. .. 030 001 000—4
Furman .. .. 200 000 000—2

SECOND FURMAN GAME

The second game was...An old-fashioned swatfest, both teams hitting the ball to all corners of the field, the final score
being 14 to 11 in favor of Davidson. The game was exciting all the way through and furnished many thrills
to the large crowd present. Currie, who started the game for Davidson, was hit hard and gave way to Lawson
in the fourth, who held his opponents fairly well. Furman was forced to use four pitchers, none of whom were
able to stop the onslaught of the Red and Black sluggers. The features of the game were two circuit drives
by Captain Alford and the heavy hitting of the whole Davidson team. Brown, McMillan, Saunders, and Younger each got two
or more hits.

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Davidson . .. 310 200 240—14 15 3
Furman .. .. 006 100 030—11 12 6

GUILFORD GAME.
In a fast and well-played game, Davidson continued its winning streak by defeating Guilford Monday in Greensboro 6 to 5.
Hengeveld did the twirling for the Red and Black and allowed only nine scattered hits. His teammates gave him excellent
support, both in the field and at bat. Finch started in the box for Guilford but was derricked in the
sixth inning after eleven hits had been secured off his delivery. Zachary succeeded him and prevented further scoring. Johnson, Alford,
Wood, and Black were the leaders in the stickwork for Davidson, two hits being garnered by each. Black also furnished
the fielding feature of the game when he speared a hard-hit grounder in the sixth with one hand and retired
the runner. Reddick, the Quaker shortstop, was the fielding star for his team, while Zachary led the hitting.

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Davidson . .. 103 011 000—6 11 2
Guilford . .. 100 200 002—5 9 2

BATTING AVERAGES.
The batting averages as given below are for all games up to, and not including, the Guilford game on Monday.

AB H Pct.
Alford .. .... 51 19 .370
McMillan .. ... 29 10 .345
Saunders .. .. 48 16 .333
Johnson . . 61 19 .312
Brown .. .. ... 54 16 .296
Black .. .. .. .. 59 16 .286
Wood .. ...... 56 14 .250
Younger .. .. .. 38 9 .237
Currie .. 2... 10 2 .200
Lawson .. 24 4 .166
Hengeveld .. ... 31 5 .162
Totals .. .. 461 130 .282

The Board of Trustees of the local High School has decided either to enlarge the present building or to build
a new one, as the present building is too small to hold the students.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store
COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc.
Special attention given to “Feeds”
Your trade is appreciated
L. A. ELLIOTT

THE FLYLESS RESTAURANT
TORRENCE & HELPER
Also Auto Service
SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.
Fountain Pens Stationery
Make our Store Your “Meeting Place”
Jetton Drug Co.
Your prescriptions are compounded with the best

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL BUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N. C.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

BALL SHOES
To play well you must be well shod.
“CLUB SPECIAL” SPRINTING
No. OS, the pair $5.00
Long-time favorites on all ball fields.
Catalogue mailed on request.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74-N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA.

THE COMMISSARY
Give your Shoe Repair Work
To JOHNSON & MEEKS'
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Headquarters For Davidson Men.
