The Davidsonian, November 1, 1916

RED AND BLACK WINS
(Continued from page 1)

Burns then clipped off 9 over tackle. Lawson then passed to R. Walker, who was waiting a few feet across the goal line. Grey failed to kick goal.

FOURTH QUARTER

Bonham received Davidson's kick-off and returned the ball 25 yards. He then gained 2 through the line, a forward pass failed, and a minute later the ball went over. Black hit the line for 5 yards, and then gained 4 around end. Davidson was penalized for holding, and punted. Anspach returned 25 yards, and Hollingsworth and Bonham made gains, but Anspach was thrown for a loss and the ball went over. Flowers punted. Roanoke made a couple of short gains, and a pass added 14.

Line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. ROANOKE.
R. Walker .......... Smith left end
Elliott ............ Duncan left tackle
Grey .............. Cadwallader left guard
B. White .......... Krieger center
Sayad ............. Seibert right guard
Gilmore ........... S. L. Bonham right tackle
Mackorell ......... Eastes right end
Keesler ........... Bunting quarterback
C. Walker ......... Rhyne right halfback
McAlister ......... Anspach left halfback
Laird ............. J. B. Bonham fullback

Substitutions — Roanoke: Chapman for Smith, Hollingsworth for Rhyne, Ottinger for Seibert, Smith for Chapman, Bushong for Ottinger, Huddle for Smith, Womeldorph for Huddle. Davidson: Black for McAlister, Flowers for Mackorell, Lawson for Keesler, Burns for Laird, White for Elmore, Pharr for Grey. Referee, Izard, of Washington and Lee; Umpire, Carlton, of Roanoke; Head linesman, Bowman, of Roanoke.

OUR NEXT GAME

On Saturday of this week Davidson will play Furman University, the game to be staged on their home gridiron, at Greenville, S.C. From all reports, Furman has this year the strongest team in her history, and they have had uniform success this season. Probably their best showing this year was against the always strong Clemson Tigers, whom they held to the very close score of 7-6. Furman has a very heavy team this year, and will outweigh the Davidson team many pounds to a man. In view of Furman's showing so far this season, the Red and Black machine can hardly be expected to roll up as large a score against them this year as in the past two.

ELECTION RETURNS MAY BE RECEIVED HERE

Efforts are being made to get direct returns from the Presidential election on November 7th. It is not certain yet but it is hoped that telephone connections can be made between the Telegraph office and Shearer Hall, where the students can hear the results of the election.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY
(Continued from page 1)

chants sell their goods, lovers win the hearts of maidens, teachers drive knowledge into the heads of their pupils that they will learn in no other way, and preachers make people believe. No matter into what walk of life we may turn, we see humor as a main factor. Since humor is such an important factor in life, every student should strive to have this humor. They should learn when, where and how to use it, for it is not always the joke that we laugh loudest at that teaches us the greatest lesson. Every college man owes it to the world to make the world lively and not dead. He stated that the sea of life was a sea far broader than the sea over which Columbus sailed, but the crown that awaits each one that makes this voyage of life a success is greater than any reward that the earth can offer. Every one should have faith enough toVenture out upon this voyage of life, for it is certain that if we never start, it will be impossible to get anywhere. Never in the history of the world has there been such an opportunity offered to young men as there is today. But what a young man will get out of life will depend on how much he puts into it. If he puts little into life, or does little to make this old world better, he will get little out of it.

After Dr. Whaling’s address, Mr. R. M. Miller, of Charlotte, N. C., a classmate of Dr. Whaling and now President of the Alumni Association, gave a very interesting talk on the relationship of the Alumni to the college. He compared the college to a corporation with its officers, board of directors, and stockholders. The faculty is its officers, the board of trustees its board of directors, and the student body and the alumni of the college represent the stockholders. He said that every student and alumnus should feel responsible to the college and do all in his power to build it up. He stated that a word of praise for Davidson from her students and alumni all over the country would be worth more than all the world-wide advertising, and in concluding announced that the Alumni Association, realizing the need of some inducement to encourage Freshmen, would give a medal at the end of the term to the Freshman making the highest average in his studies for the year. The exercises of the day were closed by the singing of a special Davidson College Day song.

TWO LECTURES GIVEN
(Continued from page 1)

An heroic effort to rescue his friend, Fred Hobbs, from drowning in the Catawba river, only to be drowned with his friend. Mr. and Mrs. Shimmon visited the grave of Mr. Yonan in the Davidson cemetery, also the place where he was drowned.

ANNUAL PHOTOGRAPHER HERE NEXT WEEK

The photographer who will take the pictures for this year’s volume of “Quips and Cranks” will be on the Hill the first of next week, November 6th to 9th. Every student is urged to be on time, and at the proper place for each picture with which he is concerned, as no pictures are to be taken after Christmas.

The staff for this year has been selected, and is composed of the following men: Andrew Brown, Editor-in-Chief; R. Harris, R. C. Jones, J. C. Paisley, D. I. McKeithen; S. T. Henderson, Business Manager; R. P. Richardson and J. A. Thames, Assistant Business Managers.

Special Attention to Davidson Men
Davidson Pressing Club
6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery...
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain...
We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

If you want a box of HUYLER’S to send her... or, if you want anything in Stationery, Drinks, Etc., we have a Complete Line.
Jetton Drug Company
Prescriptions a Specialty

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise
Red and Black in Town

Café just received EXTENSIVE LINE
King Quality Shoes
New Models
LET US FIT YOU

Hotel Central
Charlotte and Statesville
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
We cater to special trips for students
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN
Frank P. Morton, Manager
L.B. Patterson, College Representative
(One door above Scofields)
Everything New
“Smiley” Washam, Mgr. & Prop.
Hours: 7:30 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
ALSO MOTOR SERVICE
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines