The DAVIDSONIAN, November 29, 1916

With the Alumni

Mr. Alfred Scarborough, ‘15, was married recently to Miss Sara Delphine Hamer, of Hamer, S. C.

* * *

Mr. Harold Lee Barr, ex-'14, was married a few days ago to Miss Sarah Rankin Smith, of Easley, S. C.

* * *

R. S. Clary, ex-’14, is in the United States School of Aviation at San Francisco.

* * *

Dr. Bernard Smith, ‘06, is to be married this week to Miss Waddill, of Danville, Va.

* * *

“My Love,” by J. L. Payne, ‘16, published in the Davidson College Magazine, December, 1915, has been included in the Anthology of best poems by American university students to be issued at an early date by the Stratford Company, of Boston.

THE AIM OF THE COLLEGE.

Numerous diagnoses of the trouble with athletics in the various educational institutions have been made and it is possible that President John Grier Hibben, of Princeton, located a serious trouble in his annual report made public Thursday when he said that athletics are suffering from an over-organized system of coaching. Dr. Hibben declares that the system as it is now followed tends to make puppets of the players. “It is quite absurd,” he declares, “that the control of the team in all preliminary games should be in the hands of a body of men who are relegated to the side lines when the play is on. After all, it is an undergraduate affair and the game should be planned and played by undergraduates.”

To the average man the objection in connection with the matter of coaching would seem to be that coaching like the rest of the system of athletics is overdone. It is important that men who go to college should leave college with sound bodies, but that in the average college too much time and energy are wasted in an effort to put out winning athletic teams is certain.

What Dr. Hibben calls over-organization of coaching is just a specimen of the over-organization of the whole business of athletics. There is needed everywhere the cultivation of the feeling that the big aim of a college should be to turn out the maximum number of men with trained minds and not to win the greatest number of victories on the diamond or on the gridiron. —Fx.

A SHELF OF BOOKS.

Mr. Andrew D. White, the noted diplomat and statesman, and the first president of Cornell University, has compiled a list of books which have given him the most profit and abiding pleasure. The list was made at the request of the Cornell Era for the purpose of stimulating the interest of students at Cornell University in good reading.

Among the books which have influenced his life he places first the Bible. Among the passages of the Bible which he especially recommends are the grander Psalms, the nobler portions of Isaiah, and above all, the sixth chapter of Micah; and in the New Testament, the utterances ascribed to Jesus himself, of which the Sermon on the Mount is supreme, with St. James’ definition of “pure religion and undefiled,” and St. Paul’s description of “charity.” He says that in perfection of English diction there is in the whole range of literature nothing to surpass the story of Joseph and his brethren.

As to the classic writers Dr. White names in Greek the more striking parts of the Iliad and of Thucydides, and in Latin Caesar, Virgil, and above all, the Odes of Horace, the Agricola and Germania of Tacitus and the letters of Cicero.

In English the names from Shakespeare’s writings: “Hamlet,” “Julius Caesar,” “Macbeth,” “Henry IV,” “Henry V,” “A Midsummer Night's Dream,” and on a lower plane, “As You Like It,” “Much Ado About Nothing,” “Twelfth Night” and “The Merry Wives of Windsor.” From Milton he names “Comus,” “Allegro,” “Penseroso,” “Christmas Hymn,” and above all the “Sonnets.” He also recommends certain passages from “Paradise Lost,” and from “Samson Agonistes.” From Milton's prose he recommends “Speech for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing.”

After Milton he suggests Wordsworth's “Intimations of Immortality,” and especially his “Sonnets.” Next he names Tennyson's “In Memoriam.” Among other English writings he suggests Sir Henry Wooten's “Happy Life,” Grey's “Elegy,” Goldsmith's “Deserted Village,” Burns’ “Cotter’s Saturday Night” and “Tam o’ Shanter,” Keats’ “Ode to a Grecian Urn,” Bryant's “Thanatopsis,” Lowell's “Massaccio” and his “Biglow Papers.”

As to oratorical writings, Dr. White says that the three greatest speeches in the English language are: Daniel Webster's “Reply to Hayne,” Burke's plea for “The Conciliation of America,” and Abraham Lincoln’s “Address at Gettysburg.”

In fiction he gives the foremost place to Walter Scott's “Quentin Durward,” “Ivanhoe,” “Guy Mannering,” “Peveril of the Peak,” “Rob Roy,” “Kenilworth,” “The Monastery,” “The Abbot,” “Count Robert of Paris” and “The Talisman.” In the list of modern English fiction he selects Thackeray's “Vanity Fair,” “The Newcomes” and “Henry Esmond;” Hawthorne's “Scarlet Letter;” Charles Reade’s “The Cloister and the Hearth;” Eggleston's “Hoosier Schoolmaster;” Kingsley’s “Westward Ho,” and in present fiction, Kipling’sBooks, Zangwill’s Jewish novels, Countess Arnim's “Elizabeth in Her German Garden” and her other stories, and two or three recent publications of W. D. Howell's and Winston Churchill. The best short stories in English, Dr. White says, are Mark Twain's “Jumping Frog” and Bret Harte’s “Luck of Roaring Camp” and “Outcasts of Poker Flat.” In French fiction, he picks Victor Hugo’s “Hunchback of Notre Dame,” and as the best short story, Anatole France's “Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard.” The most profound and penetrating historical novel in any language he considers Anatole France’s “Les Dieux ont Soif.” In German, he picks Lessing’s “Nathan the Wise,” Goethe’s “Faust,” and Schiller’s great plays. In the whole realm of historical fiction, he says: “I would name one romance which has seemed to me the greatest ever written in any language, Manzoni’s ‘Promessi Sposi.’” Dr. White also recommends Macaulay’s “Essays,” Carlyle’s writings, and Sidney Smith’s “Essays.” In the field of biographies, he favors Stanley's “Life of Thomas Arnold” and the writings of Goldwin Smith, and also suggests as essay writers James Anthony Froude and Matthew Arnold. In the field of history and biography, Dr. White suggests Leckey’s “History of Rationalism in Europe” and Guizot’s “History of Civilization in France.” He says the most practical and attractive “History of the United States” is that by Schuler, and also recommends “The Life of Washington” by Lodge, and “Lincoln” by Hay and Nicolay. The best short book of American history recently published, he says, is “The Hundred Years of Peace” by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge. In conclusion, Dr. White suggests David Starr Jordan’s book on the war entitled “The Human Harvest,” the Rev. Harry Fosdick’s “The Assurance of Immortality,” and Moorfield Storey’s “The Reform of Legal Procedure.” —New York Sun.

A boy was told to write an essay on the Seven Ages of Man. Not having read As You Like It, he evolved this out of his inner consciousness: “When he is young, he thinks of the bad things he will do when he grows up; this is the age of innocence. When he is grown up, he does some of them; this is the prime of life. When he is very old, he is sorry for what he has done; this is dotage. But the space is more than gone. Buy the book.” —Ex.

A TWO-EDGED WAIL.

Says an editorial in the Seattle Times: “The superintendent of the Washington State prison says the dry law has so cut down the number of convicts sent to Walla Walla that unless it is repealed pretty soon he won't have men to finish the Pine Canyon road.” This wail is amusing rather than pathetic—as no doubt it is intended to be. The State of Washington can well afford to leave that road uncompleted if that is necessary to securing a sober citizenship. It is said that “Baltimore drinks up the value of its real estate every twenty or twenty-five years, and its personal property every six or eight years.” On that basis of calculation, Washington will soon have enough to cover the cost of statewide interlacing of auto trails. —Ex.

“So that pretty canvasser sold you a book, eh?” “No, she sold me a couple of smiles and threw the book in.” —Louisville Courier-Journal.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

See W. H. NEAL Our Davidson Agent

REAL CONTENTMENT Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “freak” styles, but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

DRINK Chero-Cola THERE’S NONE SO GOOD Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co. Druggists Mooresville, N. C. Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited. John L. Douglas, Pres., O. W. Thompson, Cash., S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty. Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK Give Us a Trial Rutledge & Norton Next Door to Post Office