The DAVIDSONIAN. March 1, 1916

The privilege of being excused from these final tests would be for ones who had prepared carefully the daily recitations and had also gained the benefit to be gained from a review, by preparing the monthly.

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

For Good Clothes at Money Saving Prices VISIT V. WALLACE & SONS, 31-33 W. TRADE ST.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS
Hours: 7:00 to 7:30 P. M.

Editorial Board
J. P. Williams........ Editor-in-Chief
T. J. Mitchell...... Managing Editor
P. B. Price........ Assignment Editor

The Staff
T. D. Sparrow
Wm. Hollister
R. H. Ratchford
W. L. Law, Jr.
W. A. Dumas

Reporter's Staff
Reporters for this issue are:
H. A. Campbell, A. R. Craig, L. P. Good, H. B. Elliott, C. J. Mathews, W. S. Overton, Jr., R. C. Jones, Ben Wright, M. A. Siske, G. C. Bellingrath, C. F. Allen, R. H. Stone, T. N. Morton, A. S. Potts, C. R. F. Beall, H. B. Fraser, J. A. Thames, J. R. Woods, W. C. Cumming.

Management
J. H. Carson....... Business Manager
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

EDITORIAL.

EXAMINATIONS.

Final examinations at the end of the Fall and Spring terms are a constant source of dread to the student—good, bad, and indifferent. To the first, because he fears that he will forget some little detail, unessential possibly, but necessary for the 98 or 99 for which he is trying; to the second, because of the almost certain failure which the exam will only emphasize; and to the third, because of the necessity for many hours of “cramming.” Because of the important place which these two final tests of the year hold, it would seem that we should secure as much good from them as possible, for certainly that must be the purpose of a real examination—to require the student to do better work.

As long as we have known of the campus feeling here in Davidson, there has been the repeated and constantly increasing desire on the part of practically all the students that we have some system by which faithful work throughout the year will be rewarded in a tangible way. If daily recitation grades and regular tests show that a man has been successful in his work, is it not fair that he should be excused from the final examination? A reward of this kind would be a constant incentive to every student to do faithful daily work and form habits of regular study and thought which will be worth much in after life. This system has found favor in many of the leading institutions throughout the country, and we feel that with the very close supervision which is found at Davidson as to the term work, that some plan might be found which would be workable here. There is certainly no doubt on the part of the students as to the desire for something of the kind, and the expression of individual members of the Faculty has shown that if good can be secured from some plan of this kind, they would favor it. We thoroughly believe that a much larger percentage of the students would do more faithful, consistent work and that the students who gain the coveted privilege of being excused from these final tests would be ones who had prepared carefully the daily recitations and had also gained the benefit to be gained from a review, by preparing the monthly tests.

MORE ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS.

Quite often we get word of some new group of Davidson men who have gotten together to form an association. More often we hear from some individual student in a community who says that he is sure that he is one of many who would like to be in such an association, but that they have not been able to “get together.” There seems to be an opportunity here for a number of men to do the college a service and to get much pleasure for themselves, by organizing the alumni in their immediate territory and getting them together at regular intervals. The Davidsonian will be glad to furnish information regarding the plans which have been made by various associations and methods by which the most good can be secured from them. One notable example of a live association is the Atlanta group, who meet at lunch once each month, and...They are constantly reporting many good things.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

New Exchanges—With the addition to the exchanges of The Davidsonian of two new college weeklies, "The New Hampshire," of Durham, N. H., and "Reed College Quest," of Portland, Ore., the exchange editor realizes an ideal—an exchange list reaching from the Atlantic to the Pacific. "The faculty of Reed College has adopted a constitution. One of the most striking features of the new constitution is the creation of a Welfare Committee to serve as a connecting link between the faculty and trustees. The committee is composed of two members of the Board of Trustees, two members of the faculty, and the president of the college, who is ex-officio chairman of the committee."

University of S. C.—W. K. McMillan has been elected captain of the 1916 football team in place of "Doc" Going, who has withdrawn from college to go into business.

High School Papers—The "High School Gazette," of Charleston, S. C.; "The Spokesman," of Plant City, Fla.; and "The Clarion," of Belmont, N. C., are three of the best high school papers that come to the exchange of The Davidsonian. These schools are to be congratulated on being able to edit such excellent publications.

William and Mary College—A new addition to our exchange is "The Flat Hat," of William and Mary College. The paper is small but well gotten up.

Oklahoma A. & M.—"The Orange and Black," of the Oklahoma A. & M. College, is one of the largest college newspapers. An inter-collegiate debating team, composed of girls, has recently been selected at Oklahoma A. & M. to debate a similar team from the University of Oklahoma. One of the girls who made the team has been on a Varsity debating team before.

University of Virginia—The Norfolk and Portsmouth Chapters of the Alumni of Virginia have passed resolutions opposing the proposed co-ordination bill. The students of the University, almost to a unit, oppose the proposed bill.

Will someone inform "Preacher" Meek that the Normal girls chant their blessing? Together and formed a new alumni association.

The House of Kuppenheimer Clothes, Stetson Hats, Interwoven Hose, Bates-Street Shirts, Manhattan Shirts, Banister Shoes.

1/3 OFF ON ALL OVERCOATS. "WE SAVE YOU MONEY"

V. WALLACE & SONS
SPECIAL: Tom Misenheimer, Agent
STORES AT CHARLOTTE, SALISBURY, GREENSBORO

ROY MOOSE

Spend The Cold Winter Days In Sunny Climes
TAMPA, PENSACOLA, MOBILE, and NEW ORLEANS
Be there during the holiday season of the Mardi Gras

GREATLY REDUCED ROUND TRIP TICKETS ON SALE FROM ALL POINTS VIA SOUTHERN RAILWAY

Tickets on sale to Pensacola, Mobile & New Orleans February 28 to March 6 inclusive, with privilege of extension of limit to April 3 on payment of $1.00. Fast through trains, convenient schedules, through sleeping and dining cars. For full information as to fares from your station, schedules and reservations, see nearest agent Southern Railway, or write

R. H. DeBUTTS, D. P. A.
W. G. MORRISON
Charlotte, N.C.

The One Gift That Is A Milestone On The Road To Happiness!

It is in your power to give the gift that will always be remembered! It will bring into your home so much real enjoyment and refinement that all other gifts seem insignificant. Yet this IDEAL GIFT does not require a great deal of money. You can have your STIEFF PLAYER-PIANO in your home at once. We'll arrange the terms to suit your convenience. Liberal allowance made for your old instrument. Write for catalog and prices.

219 S. Tryon St.
STIEFF
Charlotte, N. C.
Opposite Academy of Music
Established 1842

The Sanitary Barber Shop Uses Clean Towels, Sharp Razors

STUDENTS: For Engraved Cards and most reasonable prices on QUALITY PRINTING, we will appreciate your business. Get quotations from

SPECIAL INVITATION TO ALL.
Official Photographer for "Quips & Cranks"
Brady Printing Company
E. R. JENKS, Proprietor
J. A. MULLEN, Agent
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Davidson, North Carolina

THOROUGH COURSES
Well Equipped Laboratories

THE LATEST STYLES IN SCHLOSS CLOTHES CAN BE SEEN AT
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

NOW! Is THE TIME FOR ALL "GOOD MEN" TO COME to The Davidson Pressing Club

We do all kinds of Altering, Cleaning and Dyeing. We Press 6 Suits for $1.00. A Specialty on Ties Cleaned and Pressed, 2c. to 5c each.

WE ARE HERE TO PLEASE OUR CUSTOMERS
DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB
R.L. Alexander, Prop.