The DAVIDSONIAN, October 25, 1916

WITH THE ALUMNI

Davidson is now represented by a number of men in the city of Baltimore, some of whom are at Hopkins, some at the University of Maryland, others at the school of pharmacy, and still others at work along different lines. Sidney Cunningham, '11, who was recently married to Miss Ingram, a former “co-ed” of Davidson, is an assistant professor of pathology in the Medical College of Johns Hopkins. Jim Chandler, '12, Everett L. Bishop '12, and J. E. Evans, '10, are also at Hopkins. George R. Wilkinson, '12 (“Big Chink”), is a fourth-year man, and J. R. Dunn, '15, a second-year man at the same institution, while Wm. Hollister and A. M. McKeithen, both of '16, are first-year men. In the department of chemistry at Hopkins, Clarke C. Minter, '13, will complete his course in February. He is now doing research work under a grant from the Carnegie Institution. At the University of Maryland, W. M. (“Cootie”) Shaw, '15, is doing splendid work in his second year. Luther Whitehead, ex-'13, who was graduated at the Richmond Medical College last year, has been spending a few weeks in Baltimore, studying the Hopkins methods. Dr. Robert Crawford, '10, since his graduation from Hopkins, has been spending much time in the field hospitals in Germany, passed through Baltimore recently on his way to his home in Rock Hill, S. C., and spent a few days there. A recent addition to the Davidson contingent is “Pete” Hollingsworth, ex-'19, who arrived in Baltimore a short time ago to take up the study of pharmacy. J. Russell Minter, a prominent member of the Davidson delegation in Baltimore, is now a reporter on the staff of the Baltimore American, and in addition is studying art at the Charcoal Club in that city. Ronar White, '10, is another fourth-year man at Hopkins in the Medical School, while S. M. (“Red”) Hart, '13, is in his third year at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.

Rev. R. W. Gillespie, 1906, of Florence, S. C., has been elected Superintendent of Home Missions in the Synod of South Carolina. He has not yet given out his decision in the matter.

Mr. Fred Hashagan '06, of Wilmington, N. C., was married to Miss Susie Urquehart, of Savannah, Ga., on the 8th inst.

A DAVIDSON SONG

Charlotte, N. C., Oct. 20, 1916.

A good, rousing march song will do much to increase and focus the loyalty of Davidson students and alumni, and will be a great aid to organized demonstrations at games. However, Davidson already has an “Alma Mater” type of song which is strictly her own. And when the college waited nearly eighty years before anyone had the interest—for there must have been talent before—to produce a song, I think the writer deserves some credit. Davidson has never had a more loyal student nor alumnus than McIlwaine, and I think his work deserves recognition. It will stand on its own merit. Of course, however, “Davidson For Aye” won't fill the present need; and I sincerely hope some good songs will be received. The words are most important, but I should like to see an original air as well. Then the two songs should go side by side, the one the “Alma Mater” the other the “Battle Hymn.” I find that I have an extra copy of “Davidson for Aye,” which I am enclosing.

With best wishes, I am,
Most sincerely,
Enoch Faw.

The words to the song referred to, “Davidson For Aye,” are as follows:

Davidson, thy name so glorious
Ever shines it bright before us;
Over all thy foes victorious
Waves thy banner high.
Davidson we're singing
Davidson 'tis ringing
In the hearts of all thy children
To thy precepts clinging.
Thou our glorious Alma Mater
Lead us on to fight and conquer,
And our hearts’ complete surrender
E'er will be to thee.
Davidson, again we sing thee:
Full devotion now we bring thee;
Thou the queen of all that name thee
Hail! forever hail!
Davidson we're singing
Davidson 'tis ringing
In the hearts of all thy children
To thy precepts clinging.
All thy love shall be requited
As thy sons we stand united.
Hail to thee our Alma Mater!
Davidson for aye!

A STATEMENT

The Davidsonian, N.C.
Editor Davidson,

Dear Sir:

I note your statement in regard to the 1916 “Quips and Cranks,” especially where reference is made to the engravings. I feel impelled to say in fairness to Mr. Foote, of the Foote & Davies Co., who published the Annuals, that the fault was not in the engravings, but in the photography. Foote & Davies lost in the neighborhood of two thousand dollars on this issue of “Quips and Cranks,” largely because the photographs were inferior in quality and were late in being delivered by the photographer. The publishers very manfully shouldered the loss in order to give us the best Annual possible, and I would consider it an act of fairness and justice on our part to give the same prominence to this statement that was accorded to the first one with reference to the Annual.

Very truly yours,
Leroy A. Minter, '16,
Editor-in-Chief.

LECTURE ON PERSIA AT CHURCH TONIGHT

Mr. Paul Shimnfet, of Persia, an uncle of W. Y. Savad, '17, will speak in the local Presbyterian church tonight in the interest of the ArmenianRelief Fund. He will tell of conditions in the warring nations, particularly in his own stricken country, and it is hoped that a large number of students and townspeople will attend. A free-will offering will be taken for the benefit of the war sufferers, and any other contributions for this cause may be handed to T. J. Mitchell, who will forward same to the proper authorities. Mr. Shimmer has been in this country for nine months, having fled with his wife and two children from the persecutions in Persia. He is accompanied to Davidson by his wife.

He that falls into sin is a man; that grieves at it is a saint; that boasteth of it is a devil.—St. Augustine.

MAKES A GOOD PLAYER?! FOOTBALL

If anyone should ask you, what it takes to make a good or successful football player, no doubt you would answer at once, nerve or courage. You would be partly right. But nerve isn’t the main asset of the game. Love of the game is the real secret of football. I've seen men who had fine husky bodies, with as much nerve as anybody, and who knew the theory of playing the game, yet were not good players. They only tried to play a short while; then gave it up. They did not love the game. That's the thing that makes a fellow, after being tackled so hard that he sees stars, and being so fatigued that he can hardly walk, yet as soon as the pain eases a little is ready to start back at the opposite team and fight every inch of the way. No one who shrinks at the hard knocks he gets, and is thinking about how to save himself from getting hurt, ever makes a good football player. He must love the game. It isn't the so-called yellow streak that causes them to give it up. For you will find on a broad average that one man is about as brave as another, or would be under the same conditions. Courage in football is often spoken of as a rare quality, whereas it is one of the most prevalent qualities in the game. There are few in the game who are without it. Efficiency in the game is not only a rarer quality than courage, but it is also to a large extent the producer of courage. There are times, though, when courage is overplayed. The best instructors in the game start in to make their men competent, knowing that most of the time competency will develop courage. You have heard a lot about Yale's “bulldog pluck.” Yale last fall went against Harvard ready to die if necessary to redeem the blue. Yale undoubtedly started with all the grim courage she could carry, but of what use was this “bulldog pluck” against efficiency and a competency that overwhelmed? This isn't intended as any poke at courage, gameness, or grit. The point is that courage as a winning characteristic can be overplayed; that it will not get you very far without something else.

The Tech coaches ought to extend a vote of thanks to the Davidson eleven. If there was any self-courtesy in their prowess as a football team or any overconfidence in the camp prior to Saturday, this plucky little Davidson eleven knocked it all out of the players. For this, the coaches should be supremely thankful. It was Davidson that came to Atlanta last season about this same time and woke the Jackets to a realization that they could not rest on their laurels or supposed strength, but must get out and fight for all there was in them. This year Davidson repeated the dose, though she carried it dangerously near a defeat for the Jackets and it was plainly a worried bunch of Tech supporters that followed the fortunes of their eleven the first two quarters of the game. Which brings us to the point at issue. There will be some hustling at the Flats this week to endeavor to whip the eleven in shape for the next game which will be with the North Carolina Tar-Heels. Coach Heisman witnessed the Rutgers-Washington & Lee game Saturday to get first-hand information as to what the Generals possess. As someone in the crowd most aptly put it, “Some one ought to have gotten a little more dope on this Davidson team.” When “Heis” gets back the fur will fly.—Charlotte News.

None but God is worthy of the whole offering of man.—Phillips Brooks.

REAL CONTENTMENT is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Gilbert & Patterson, Agents

Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men.

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. &. Patterson, - - Representative