The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
H. A. Dishongh, O. C. Williamson, T. C. Stone, H. K. Aiken, J. B. Woods, M. A. Siske, A. R. Craig, E. A. Woods, S. T. McCloy, R. E. McClure, E. H. Hamilton, C. J. Matthews.

Management:
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
L. K. Boggs
L. H. Patterson = Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

AN EXPERIMENT

The Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes of Davidson are trying an experiment. This is the first time that it has ever been tried here, though it has been made elsewhere. At some of the colleges it worked, at others it failed. The experiment is this: “The main purpose of college life is to turn out men—real men, who can stand in the world alone and do that which spells service. In the past, it has been generally agreed that the first year of the college life should be spent in teaching a Freshman his place, in making him humble and respectful. But last year the hypothesis was set forth that if a Freshman were considered as, and treated as, a man his first year instead of as a boy, and were given four years instead of three to live as a man, the college would turn out better products. So the upper-classmen pledged themselves to educate the new men, not with paddles and water bags and compulsory singing, but with good will and fellowship.

There are many predictions as to the result. Some say that Freshmen “simply can't get on without taking down,” others say that they will become unbearably “fresh,” and some think that as the Freshmen find out that their freshness receives no attention except disgust, they will abandon it. But no one knows. This much is certain, it will not be a fair test if there are not the proper conditions. If the upper-classmen go back on their pledge, and resort to hazing as a punishment for freshness, the fault for failure of the experiment will be theirs. Provided the conditions are right, the result lies with the Freshmen. Should they become conceited, forget that they are first-year men, do not give upper-classmen the deference that is due them, and let their manner and speech become distasteful, the experiment will have failed, the class of ’20 will not deserve the confidence that has been placed in them, and great will be the disgrace thereof. But if each Freshman plays the part of a man, becomes not “fresher” but more and more mature, their class will have a record worthy of pride, and one which future classes will do well to follow.

The DAVIDSONIAN,

ALUMNI: SUBSCRIBE.

The editors are trying to get out a six-page instead of a four-page issue this year. They are trying to do it without raising the subscription price and with the same limited field for advertisements. They are doing it to make the paper more complete, to report in detail all the happenings on the campus, to cover all departments. They want to make the issues more attractive and readable to you and every other reader. They cannot do it without your aid. SUBSCRIBE NOW. Cut out the coupon and send it to the Circulation Manager.

Maybe the Annual has become bi-annual.

Everybody likes a Freshman who speaks when he passes.

Alas for the Seniors who hoped to swim in theNew gymnasium pool. If David killed a giant with a sling and stone, what can Davidson do to U of Va. with a Red and Black Machine? —Mullen. Since Davidson won't, who will Wake Forest to the fact this year that they can be defeated in football? Probably Woodrow Wilson had his first experience with obstinate railroads on the dummy line. From the size of the student body, the floods must not have flattened Father's pocketbook as much as reports would seem to indicate. What a thing is this so-called College Wit. Someone remarked the other day that The Davidsonian ought to be a hot sheet this year since it is being issued under the Blanket System.

FRESHMEN LECTURES. A course that is being introduced into the curriculum this year and which, it is hoped, will be of great benefit to the new students, is that of a series of lectures by faculty members or speakers chosen by the faculty. These lectures will be given on Friday mornings and attendance by Freshmen is compulsory. The subjects of the lectures will be those which will be of particular interest to the new men and will help them to get settled into college life by showing them the various relations of the men to the college of which they are a part. On Friday, September 15, the first of these lectures was given by Dr. Martin. He made a strong appeal to the Freshmen to realize that they are expected to conduct themselves in a manly way and abide by the traditions of the campus in regard to their attitude toward the older students. He also emphasized the fact that it was desired that they feel at home on the campus and that the older men were ready to help them in any way possible. Next was taken up a discussion of the opportunities open to the men for efficient, conscientious work in classes and on the campus.

POLITY CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING OF YEAR. The first meeting of the local International Polity Club for the year was held on Thursday afternoon, September 14th. At this meeting a tentative program for the year was adopted and the time for meeting decided upon. At the next meeting, W. H. Neal, the club's representative at the conference on International Relations, which met at Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, from June 21-July 1, will give some echoes of that great conference.

September 20, 1916

Notice Alumni! FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON AT ONCE

Circulation Manager, The Davidsonian:

To show my continued interest in the college activities, and as an evidence that my loyalty is still alive, find enclosed herewith my dollar for a year's subscription to The DAVIDSONIAN.

Name

GOOD PRINTING CONSISTS OF MORE THAN INK, TYPE & PAPER. While there is nothing mysterious about the process, it requires, among other things, good judgment, taste, and a desire to keep ahead or above the average. The goodness of printing is governed by the printer’s equipment plus his ability to use it. We have a generous supply of both and are constantly adding to them. Our line embraces all kinds and classes of work, but we prefer to do the better kind. If you desire the best in any class, we can meet your requirements and guarantee to please you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO. Charlotte, N. C.

W.H. NEAL, Davidson Agent

Fountain Pens WRITE RIGHT

PATTERSON & GILBERT, Agts.

At The Commissary for the Best Line of CANDIES and Fruit IN TOWN COME TO Elliott’s Store. We keep something good to eat all the time.

Sanitary Barber Shop E. R. Jenks, Proprietor

A New Line of College Jewelry Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc. Torrence’s Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN: We are here to serve you. Come in. We are always glad to see you.