Are You
PREPARED

With Dress Shoes
for the Fall Social
Functions,

With
TROT-MOCS

for the slush of winter

GET IN LINE

Gilmer-Moore Co.

JOHNSON & POTTS
Agents 2 Rumple

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 15, 1916

THE FORUM

POTENTIAL INFLUENCE

The Sir Lancelot in the eyes of the college-bred man of today—that one who, above all others, most nearly embodies
those ineffable traits with which Lord Tennyson clothed his characters in his “Idylls of the King,” is the gridiron athlete.
The valor, courage, skill, and self-control of the English knight have been transmitted to the football player of the Twentieth
Century, and he who stars in the big game has his fame told and retold by the Student Body almost
to a unit. True Anglo-Saxons that we are, we justly admire the gridiron hero. His courage and skill portend the
red blood that flows in his veins, the sturdy stock from which he is descended.

The years which this athlete has spent in developing himself indicate the amount of capital which he possesses—capital in the
form of influence. Just as money is capital in the hands of the business man, so this influence in the
hands of the athlete is veritable capital. Does such capital as this exist only potentially or is it being used
more and more, positively and constructively, for the upbuilding, in every particular, of a greater Davidson? The potential wealth of
a nation is of no value until it is used, neither is the potential influence of our athlete of any
appreciable value until it is used by its possessor.
“RENor.”

DAVIDSON LOSES

(Continued from page 1)
The final outcome broke against Davidson, and that’s where the rub comes in.

THE STARS OF THE GAME
Davidson played offensive ball for almost the entire game, as the account of the game shows, and rarely did the
backs fail to gain. Every man on the team was giving all he had, and too much credit cannot be
given them.

“Buck” Burns amply justified his sobriquet. He rammed and bucked that “impregnable” Carolina line for something like 60 yards while
he was in the game, and besides that played a great defensive game. He never failed to gain when called
upon, and all of his gains, except two, were for at least 5 yards. If a man had to be
picked as the outstanding star for Davidson, “Buck’s” name would loom up. The other stars in the Davidson back-field were
Jack Black, Steve Walker, Sam Keesler, Bill Lawson, and Flowers. “Jack” gained over 30 yards, and played one of the
best games of his career, while Steve and Sam gained consistently. The game these four men played deserved more results
in the scoring line, to say the least.

Bill Lawson and Buck Flowers pulled off one of the prettiest plays ever seen on any gridiron. That pass was
perfect and so was the receiving of it, and “Bill” pulled off other passes in great form.

Bob Walker played a great game at end, and his punting bettered Folger's. Although often pushed by Carolina’s ends, he
never failed to get off his punts for good distances.

The back-field played a great game to be sure, but their playing was equalled if not excelled by the playing
of that “Thin Red Line” aforementioned. Captain White, “Billy” Sayad, “Turk” Shaw, “Wooley” Grey, Elliott, and Singleton were individual and
collective stars of the first order. “Big Ben” more than held his own with the redoubtable Tandy, and threw the
Carolina backs repeatedly. Billy Sayad played a wonderful game at guard. If there’s a better guard in the state, he
has yet to be found. “Wooley,” too, was all there, and when a fumble was made, was always on the
job. “Turk” Shaw, always in these with bells on, played his best game of the season, and was a veritable
tiger on defense. Elliott at tackle shared honors with the others in the line, and that’s saying a great deal.
Singleton at end showed up especially well and played like a veteran in spite of the fact that this was
his first collegiate game.

L. B. Patterson, Representative

The Astor Lunch

2-hour delivery

Just Received

A New Line of

College Boys’ Overcoats

Made in Snappy Models,
Priced in the Usual
Belk Way.

$10.00 $12.50 $15.00
$16.50 $17.00 $18.50

BELK BROTHERS
Charlotte, N. C.

Spratt, Agent 67 Chambers

Charlotte Steam Laundry

Laundry collected every
Monday and delivered
promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.

Sayad & Douglas,
7 Chambers

Quickest

Save your Shoe Repair Work

for the

SHU-FIXERY

of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts

27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let

Tobe Johnson

Press Your Clothes

Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. B. PATTERSON, Representative

Fall Line of

Chase & Sanborn Coffee and Tea

New Lot Men’s Shoes

Armour Bros.
Thompson

Tate’s Barber Shop

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

HOTEL STONEWALL

—Charlotte, N. C.—
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

ANDERS, President

(Continued on page 6)

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Representative

33 South Tryon

First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP....

see R. D. MOONEY

COLLEGE BOYS

We will refund all Davidson College students their railroad fare to Winston-Salem, N. C. and return who make purchases of
$25.00 or more.

Fare one way on $15.00

BOYLES BROS.

One of the Largest Clothiers in the Carolinas.
REIDSVILLE, N. C. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
