Reunion of Societies Features Monday Hon. W. F. Carter Makes Annual Address. Concert Given.

LITERARY SOCIETY REUNION.

The feature of Monday's program was the literary address in Shearer Hall before the literary societies, the Philanthropic and the
Eumenean, by Hon. W. F. Carter, of Mt. Airy. Mr. Carter, by way of introduction, said that he was unable
to understand just why the societies should invite him to deliver such an address. “I know,” he said, “that it
was not because of my excellent record in college. I was scarcely able to pass my work. After thinking over
all possible reasons, I am persuaded that it is this: I have sent four sons to Davidson and have three
more to send.”

Mr. Carter grouped his thoughts around the idea, “if we would serve, if we would achieve, we must train the
body, mind, and spirit.” “If you would battle with the billowy waves of the stern realities of life, I admonish
you to train the mind.” In the course of his remarks, he told the graduates that they were about to
leave their training camps and enter the broad field of service—service to man and God. “In this field, positions and
opportunities will present themselves, and the man who can meet these opportunities is he who succeeds. Sterling worth, good training,
and character are the requirements for success.” Speaking to the students individually, he urged them to know themselves physically, mentally,
and spiritually.

Following the address, adjournment was taken to the respective halls, the Philanthropic and the Eumenean, where valedictories and responses were
delivered, followed by the awarding of diplomas. In a few well-chosen words, H. W. Ormand delivered the valedictory address in
the Philanthropic Society, to which a very fitting response was made by S. T. Henderson, Junior Respondent. After the addresses,
diplomas were delivered to the following members: J. H. Carson, H. B. Craig, E. G. Clary, S. M. Crisp, N.
P. Farrior, K. A. McDonald, J. M. McBryde, J. D. McLeod, H. McCormick, D. M. Monroe, J. L. Payne, D.
Shaw, T. D. Sparrow, W. T. Witt, H. Morrison, H. W. Ormand, and E. J. McIntire. Short, impromptu speeches by
visiting alumni, most of which were in a humorous vein, concluded the exercises of the evening.

The valedictory in the Eumenean Society was eloquently delivered by F. H. Smith, to which a happy response was made
by L. A. Chambliss. After several short talks by alumni and the graduation class, diplomas were delivered to the following:
L. G. Edgerton, G. B. Hoyt, W. G. Morrison, L. A. Mullen, Roy Perry, J. G. Patton, F. H. Smith,
H. A. Scott, J. P. Williams, and J. T. Williams.

SHAKESPEAREAN MASQUE.

In place of the “stunt” which the Senior class has for the past several years been giving on the afternoon
of commencement day, the graduating class this year gave “a masque of praise for the Shakespeare Tercentenary” termed “King Shakespeare.”
In this masque, eminent literary men of each of the three centuries since Shakespeare's death speak in praise of him.
Such men are Ben Jonson and Milton, of the Seventeenth century; David Garrick, of the Eighteenth; and Emerson and Carlyle,
of the Nineteenth. The sayings of such men as these were read by the students. In addition to this masque,
a scene from King Henry the Eighth, termed “Cardinal Wolsey’s Farewell to His Greatness,” was presented by four members of
the Senior class. The part of the Earl of Surrey was acted by W. C. Copeland; Duke of Suffolk, by
R. H. Bennett; Cromwell, by J. F. Payne; and Cardinal Wolsey, by L. A. Mullen. The acting of Copeland and
Mullen was especially good.

THE CONCERT.

The Commencement concert given by the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club in Shearer Hall on Monday afternoon was one of
the most interesting and most enjoyable ever given on such an occasion. Each number was greeted with hearty applause and
practically all by repeated encores. Decidedly, the features of the program were the vocal solo by J. F. Fowle and
a quartet selection by Messrs. Fowle, Payne, Morrison, and Witt. Both were recalled three or four times by encores. An
added feature of the concert was a violin solo by Miss Dickson Vardelle, accompanied by Miss Margaret Vardell, both of
Red Springs. The following program was rendered:

Under the Banner of Victory—Franz V. Blon: Orchestra.
Hark, Hark the Glee Club.
The Only Tune the Band Could Play—Al Hayes: Orchestra.
Honey Town—Widner: Vocal Solo—Selected.
Toy Soldier Caprice—Selected: Orchestra.
Violin Solo—Selected: Miss Dickson Vardell, accompanied by Miss Margaret Vardell.
Rosalin—Peter: Club.
Poet, Peasant and Light Cavalry—Von Suppe: Orchestra.
Quartet—Selected: Morrison, Witt.
Molly Dear It’s You I’mAfter—Herbert: Morrison and Glee Club. Instrumental Quartet—Selected: Baker, Coachman, Childs, Townsend. Overtures—Orchestra and Glee Club. Lark—Schubert:
Glee Club. J. L. Fowle. Or—Neal and Glee Fowle, Payne.

CLASS DAY EXERCISES.

The distinctive class exercises of the class of 1916 were held in Shearer Hall on the afternoon of Tuesday of
Commencement and the class presented a very interesting and creditable program. The Senior class formed in procession at Rumple Dormitory,
and, headed by the class mascot, Courtnay McConnell, marched to Shearer Hall and took the seats reserved at the front
of the auditorium. The program was in seven parts. S. B. Hay, in a humorous but cordial speech, bade the
friends and visitors welcome in the name of the class. After the salutatory, J. G. Patton gave the history of
the class during its four years of college existence. The beautiful and original class poem was read by J. L.
Payne, who was followed by L. A. Mullen, delivering the class oration. The class gift was presented to the college
by D. Shaw, and the class book was presented to the president of the Junior class by F. H. Smith.
The last speech of the afternoon was the valedictory, delivered by R. Perry. The exercises were enjoyed by a large
audience of friends and relatives.

Tuesday Proves Day of Full Program Literary Address by Hon. John S. Barrett.

ANNUAL LITERARY ADDRESS.

It is very seldom that a Davidson audience is privileged to hear an address more interesting, entertaining and instructive than
that delivered by Hon. John S. Barrett, Director-General of the Pan-American Union, Tuesday morning in Shearer Hall. Mr. Barrett is
a man of handsome personal physique and an eloquent speaker, having a wonderful carrying voice. Taking as his subject “The
Broader Responsibilities of Our Country and Its Young Men,” the speaker said in part:

“While yet quite young I was appointed ambassador to Siam. This country is showing wonderful development, and, upon examination, I
find other Asiatic countries, which we suppose to be dead or sleeping, developing just as fast.

“I know that the Davidson type of man—a class which values real worth more than buildings and endowment. Upon the
shoulders of such men as these must fall the task of leadership and responsibilities of our nation now a world-power
and I would impress upon you the need of preparedness, not necessarily military but educationally.

“It is the responsibility of the United States to help bring about closer relationships between nations. Our nation must do
this if we expect to enjoy universal peace.

“To accomplish this the people must be educated and looked upon as brothers.

“That characteristic which business men prize most is dependability. In college life, on the football and baseball field, in battle
or in politics the dependable man succeeds. Our country needs men who possess this characteristic because after the war there
will be such responsibilities, here and elsewhere, that dependableness will be needed to keep our flag aloft and our country
respected.

“Our influence and example in the Western Hemisphere is hard to overestimate. Most people are ignorant of the fact that
the constitutions of all the Latin-American republics were modeled after ours and that the South American heroes and patriots draw
their inspiration, according to their own biographies, from such men as George Washington.

“The American people are prone to underestimate the remarkable evidence of civilization manifested by the Latin-Americans. There was a university
in South America one hundred years before either Yale or Harvard was founded.

“Many unjustly criticize the President’s Mexican policy. But their view is narrow. Mr. Wilson is looking to the future, beyond
the border of Mexico. He is endeavoring to settle this troublesome question so that it will bring honor to ourselves,
to Mexico, and to the whole world.

“The European war is binding the two Americas together. We should feel like brothers and realize that our own future
as well as theirs depends upon us. We should so conduct our affairs that we will be loved by all
the warring nations after this war shall have ended.”

SENIOR CLASS GIFT.

A marble drinking fountain, the gift of the class of 1916, is one of the most useful and beautiful ever
presented to the college by any graduating class. Water is furnished in abundance without the use of a drinking cup,
by the mere pressing of a button by the foot. At the same time the appearance of the old well
is bettered many fold. On the pedestal facing the main walk are inscribed the motto of the class: “Labora ut
vincas.”

Lion Brand Collars, Shirts, Socks, Handkerchiefs, Ties, Anything to Wear BELK BROTHERS McClure Agent

OUR LOW CUT SHOES Are up-to-the-minute in Style and Quality Also full line of Straw, Sailors and Panama Hats The
very latest styles. Let us fit you up. It will pay you to see our Palm Beach Suits---snappy patterns and
styles Armour Bros. & Thompson

SODA, CIGARS, TOBACCO &c. Fountain Pens, Stationery Make our Store Your “Meeting Place” Jetton Drug Co. Your prescriptions are compounded
with the best

Character, Personality & Individuality are expressed in your STATIONERY AND ADVERTISING LET BRADY PRINT IT BRADY PRINTING CO. Statesville, N.
C. L. A. Mullen, Agt.
