The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II.

Dr. Thornton Lectures On Panama Canal
Account of Acquisition and Construction of Canal is Given.

Last Thursday evening Dr. W. M. Thornton, Dean of the Electrical Department of Engineering, of the University of Virginia, delivered one of the most interesting lectures of the season to an audience that filled the auditorium in Shearer Hall. Dr. Thornton is in a position to speak authoritatively on his subject, “The Panama Canal,” having been the guest of Colonel Goethals in the Canal zone some two years ago.

Dr. Thornton spoke very interestingly for about an hour before presenting the slides which added very much to the interest of the occasion. It will be remembered that Dr. Thornton was Professor of Greek at Davidson in 1875, and before beginning his lecture Dr. Thornton spoke of the pleasure of renewing the association of the first years of his active college work.

In opening his lecture Dr. Thornton spoke of the appropriateness of the names of the two operating points at the extremities of the canal, Christobol Colon (Spanish for Christopher Columbus) and Balboa. He continued by showing how much we owe to the French for their labors in that country. “They spent $42,000,000 on the canal, and much of the machinery that they brought over has been used to advantage in the later work there. He stated that the great hindrance to the French in their undertaking was the uncontrollable yellow fever. This great obstacle was overcome by the Americans by their method of sanitation, and in 1907 there was only one death in the zone that was caused by this peril. Dr. Thornton paid a tribute to sanitary conditions of the country by saying that in his stay in the zone he did not see a single mosquito and only two flies.

The topography of the zone was pictured as varying from the seven miles of swamp on the Atlantic seaboard to the forty miles of hills reaching the Pacific, reminding one of the foothills of our own Blue Ridge section. The many landslides are caused, he said, by the peculiar structure of the earth. In some places it is a thick deposit of a slimy soil, which was formed in a period when that section was inundated by the conjunction of the two seas. The size of the great locks was seen when a lantern slide was shown giving a view of a six-story building placed in it and just reaching the top, a large-sized engine in the conduit that supplied the water, and a horse and buggy in the smaller conduit. The locks are 110 feet wide, thus allowing the largest ships to pass in safety. Dr. Thornton stated that to put a ship through all of them would require the amount of water that a city the size of Charlotte would use in six months.

Dr. Thornton showed the great importance of the canal for military and commercial purposes. The upkeep of this canal, he said, was $10,000 a day, yet the tolls during the first year amounted to enough to more than pay this amount. The total capacity of the canal is twenty ships a day and the re-
(Continued on page 4)

News and Happenings Of the Week In Town

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 22, 1916.

Orchestra and Glee Club Takes Trip
Social and Personal Items About Concerts Are Given at Lenoir, the Town People.

Miss Carrie Hood, of the local public school, has been called home by the death of her uncle.

Dr. and Mrs. Moore McConnell gave a very delightful reception Thursday afternoon in honor of Professor Thornton, of the University of Virginia. Delicious refreshments were served and the event was much enjoyed.

The International Polity Club at a meeting last Friday afternoon adopted a very interesting program for the remainder of the collegiate year.

U. S. Alexander, ‘15, teacher of modern languages at Myer's School for Boys, in Savannah, will have charge of German in the Montreat Summer School during the coming season. Mr. Alexander is one of the best students of modern languages that has been graduated from Davidson in the past few years.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has been engaged to conduct a course in parliamentary government for the women of the Southern Presbyterian Church who will be at Montreat during the coming summer.

Mrs. J. M. Worth has returned from a very enjoyable visit to relatives in Wilmington.

Mrs. Whittaker and Dr. E. H. Harding made a short visit to Charlotte the last part of the week.

Miss McMillan and friend are spending the weekend with the mother of the former in Davidson.

Everett Booe left Thursday for Fort Smith, Ark., where he will begin training for the coming baseball season, with the St. Paul team.

TRACK MEETS PLANNED.

About twenty-five men responded to the captain’s call for candidates for the track team last Friday. While there has not been much interest in track work heretofore, this year seems to be an exception. The “Red and Black” will very probably meet three colleges. A contract has already been signed with Clemson College for a meet on the local field May 13. Plans are being made for a meet with the “Aggies” at Raleigh on Easter Monday. Davidson will very probably enter the State contest which will be held at Chapel Hill the latter part of the season. The old men returning are: Morrison, captain; W. A. Crouch, Perry, A. G. Finley and Dave Worth. Many new men are also showing up well. Coach Klutz will give the greater part of his time to this branch of athletics for the rest of the season. Practice began last Friday. Only light work will be given the candidates for the first few days, after which practice begins in earnest, and will be held each day at 4:30 p.m. on the athleticField. W. G. Johnson, Asheville and Marion. The Orchestra and Glee Club returned on last Tuesday from a trip of several days through the western part of the State. As a whole, the trip was one of the most enjoyable that this organization has ever taken. Leaving Davidson early Thursday morning, the first stop was made at Lenoir, where the members of the organization were entertained by the hospitable people of that town. In the afternoon, a visit was made to Davenport College, where the Glee Club rendered several songs, and the young ladies of the college returned the compliment by singing several selections, which were greatly enjoyed. That evening, a concert was given in the High School auditorium before a good audience.

On Friday morning, the journey was resumed and Asheville was reached by noon. During the stay in that city, a part of the organization were guests of R. B. McKee, at Bingham School, and the others were entertained at the Asheville Normal College. That night, a concert was given at the High School auditorium, and on Saturday night, the club was greeted by a large and enthusiastic audience at the Normal College. Leaving Asheville Monday afternoon, Marion was the next stop, and there another good audience received the musicians that night. The return trip to Davidson was made on Tuesday. The features of the concerts rendered were the vocal solos by J. L. Fowle, violin solos by F. H. Baker, and the comic work of I. A. Mullen. Another trip into the eastern part of the State is contemplated in the near future.

INTER-HIGH SCHOOL CONTESTS HERE THIS SPRING

The Inter-High School Athletic and Literary contest for the West Central District of North Carolina, which was held here last year with much success, will again be held at Davidson. Arrangements have been completed. The dates decided upon are April 6 and 7. The contest will assume much greater proportions this year, as the city high schools in this district will compete. Such cities as Charlotte, Statesville, and Concord will send delegations which should add much to the interest of these contests. It is estimated that the total number of high schools participating will reach sixty. The contests in declamation, recitation, composition, and spelling will be held on Friday night, the 6th, and the athletic contest, composed of the field events, will take place on the following day. Mr. C. W. Weddington, of Concord, has charge of the details of the contests, and will be glad to give any information concerning them. The judges have not yet been chosen, but notice will be made of their selection at an early date.

Dr. Martin is on a visit to the eastern part of the State.

No. 23

Baseball Season Opens on Monday
First Game to Be With Catawba---Varsity Not Yet Selected.

Local fans will have their first opportunity of seeing the Davidson baseball team in action against a collegiate foe on next Monday, the 27th, when the Red and Black will line up against Catawba College for the opening game of the season on Sprunt Field. While the game is supposed to be a mere practice affair, it is more than likely that a lively tussle will be seen, for Catawba comes here with a line-up of old men and brilliant youngsters that are heralded as ball tossers of no mean ability. Behind the bat, they have the unusual spectacle of three candidates of the same name. Two are brothers, while the third is an outsider of the family name. The trio are Reinhardts, Frank, Cecil, and John by name, and while it is not known which one of the three will start, it is certain that a Reinhardt will catch. The pitchers will probably be chosen from Rowe, a veteran of last year, and John Fesperman. First base is held down by Frank Fesperman, second by Foil, and third by Joe Whitener. The outfield is not known, as they are new men. However, it is promised that the Catawbans will present a formidable line-up with all these old men, and one worthy of giving Davidson a run for her money in the first game of the 1966 season.

The local line-up is a matter of conjecture. Coach Fetzer has not yet decided definitely just the combination which he will start as his Varsity. Some of the positions can be pretty certainly named, but about half of them are still open to competition. Captain Alford will be on the job behind the bat, with Faires and Burns ready to step in on a moment's notice. Saunders, who has been playing regular first-baseman, has been kept from practice recently with a slight indisposition, but will probably be ready to play by Monday. In his absence, Steve Walker has been trying his hand at the initial sack. The remainder of the infield circuit affords the above-mentioned perplexity in regard to the final line-up. It is likely that the showing of the different candidates this week will determine the status of the opening line-up around the last two-thirds of the infield. Johnson, Wood, and Black have been filling the positions lately, with McKinnon, Younger, and Pharr taking occasional turns. Bennie Brown is practically the only certainty in the outfield. Left-field and center will be filled from the following: Sam Keesler, Walker, Hengeveld, Lawson, McMillan, and J. W. Miller. Of course, it would be impossible to predict who will take the mound in the first game, as Coach Fetzer has four competent and willing hurlers eager to toss the first one over. Lawson and Hengeveld are in fine fettle, and could go the full route if necessary. Shaw is also in pretty good condition, and the big southpaw has been showing plenty of stuff lately. Perhaps he will be the choice for the opening game. The two Freshmen, Currie and Monteith, are in good shape, and have been getting plenty of work lately. Currie has been getting (Continued on page 4)