The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II.

High Schools Hold Successful Meet Here

Many Contestants Take Part In The Various Events.

Representatives and visitors for the annual High School meet held here last Thursday and Friday began to arrive on Thursday
morning and continued to come in till Friday. A reception committee, with William Hollister as chairman, met the trains and
conducted the visitors to the hall of the Civic League, where they were registered, assigned places, and given any information
that was desired. Sixty boys and forty-five girls were entered in the various contests from schools all over the West
Central division. On Friday, a luncheon was served in the Civic League hall for the contestants by the ladies of
the town. All the exercises were well attended by both students and town people. In spite of the fact that
it rained the whole of Friday afternoon, the occasion was one of much enjoyment to the students as well as
the residents of Davidson.

RECITATION CONTEST.

The preliminaries in the recitation contest for girls were held in Shearer Hall. Those who won positions in the final
contest were: Ruth Knox, Mt. Ulla, “The Station Agent's Story;” Mamie Johnson, Davidson, “The Spelling Bee;” Zona Hord, Waco, “Scorching
vs. Diamonds;” Millicent Blanton, Shelby, “The Littlest Rebel;” Pearl Walton, China Grove, “Aunt Elnora’s Hero;” Georgia Kirk, Albemarle, “Naughty Nell.”
In the finals Friday afternoon, Miss Millicent Blanton, of Shelby, was the winner of the medal.

DECLAMATION CONTEST.

The preliminary declamation contest was held Thursday evening in the two society halls. There were twenty-two contestants, from whom six
were chosen to compete in the finals. Those selected were: Carl Cathey, Davidson, “Spartacus to the Gladiators;” Ezra Moss, Cherryville,
“My Mother, My Country, My God;” George Ritchie, Concord, “Character of Napoleon;” Sylvester Price, Unionville, “Jewels From the Dust;” James
Alexander, Statesville, “Opinions Stronger Than Armies;” Alexander McLean, Gastonia, “The Race Problem in the South.” The final contest was held
in Shearer Hall on Friday afternoon. The judges were: Drs. Sentelle, I. M. Douglass, Richards, Professor Wood, and Mr. J.
P. Williams. The medal for the declamation contest was awarded to James Alexander, of Statesville.

SPELLING CONTEST.

In the spelling contest held Friday morning, Miss Ona Whitley, of Unionville, was the winner among fourteen contestants. One hundred
words were given, fifty from Webster's Primary Dictionary and fifty from Webster's “Blue Backed” Spelling Book. There were three contestants
who spelled the hundred correctly, namely: R. O. Stone, from Concord; Ona Whitley, from Unionville; and Rebekah McLean, from Gastonia.
Fifty more words were given, resulting in the withdrawal of all but Miss Whitley.

(Continued on page 4)

News and Happenings Of the Week In Town

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 12, 1916.

Davidson Victorious In Erskine Debate

No. 26

Red and Black Team Wins Two More Games

Social and Personal Items About Town People.

Drs. Richards, Harding, and Lingle are attending the meeting of Concord Presbytery, which convened last night at Marion, N. C.

Dr. J. M. McConnell will conduct the mid-week prayer meeting tonight in the absence of the pastor.

Mrs. Hugheley, of Danville, Ky., is visiting her daughter, Mrs. M. G. Fulton.

Mrs. McClung and mother spent last Saturday with Professor and Mrs. Fulton.

Miss Lizzie Young is spending the week with Mrs. J. E. Ramsey, of Salisbury.

Dr. T. C. Johnson, Professor of Theology in Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., is expected to preach here next Sabbath.

In the last week of March, local alumnae of Peace Institute met at the home of Miss Fannie McBride and
organized an alumnae chapter. The following officers were elected: President, Miss Mamie Withers; Vice-President, Mrs. I. P. Paisley; Secretary, Mrs.
J. H. Reid; Treasurer, Mrs. C. L. Grey; Historian, Miss Cornelia Shaw; Chairman Ways and Means Committee, Miss Fannie McBride.
Various plans for furthering the welfare of the institution were discussed, and much loyal interest shown.

Last Sunday, Dr. W. W. Moore, President of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., conducted both the morning and evening services
in the Presbyterian church. At the morning service, he brought out very clearly how great people often fail after their
most important success, and that if we would be successful, we must do our work in line with God’s methods.
In the evening service, Dr. Moore dwelt especially on the value of books for young people.

DEBATE WITH EMORY NEXT MONDAY NIGHT

The Davidson-Emory debate will be held at Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga., on the night of Monday, April 17. The
affirmative side of the question will be upheld by F. H. Smith and J. G. Patton, of Davidson, and the
negative by F. Louis King and Pierce Cline, of Emory. The question is: “Resolved, That the British Form of Government
is more Democratic than that of the United States.” Dr. Gaines, President of Agnes Scott, will preside. Col. Reuben R.
Arnold, Prof. J. T. Miller, Prof. L. M. Landrum, Mr. T. T. Gertatewsky, and Dr. C. W. Daniel have been
selected as judges. Music will be furnished by the Agnes Scott Glee Club. The Alumni Association of Atlanta is planning
to give the Davidson team an informal luncheon at the Ansley Hotel.

Issues effectively and were unable to re four merchant marine. Hill Friday Night. A logical arrangement of subject matter in
the speeches of the first round, a forceful and convincing delivery, and an effective rebuttal wereThe telling factors in Davidson's
victory in debate over Erskine in the Winthrop Auditorium last Friday night were Thames and Neal, who were in a
debating mood, and the unanimous decision of the judges indicates the completeness of their victory. On the other hand, the
Erskine representatives, R. Caldwell and W. D. Dickey, while they delivered good speeches, failed to show the same systematic treatment
of the subject, the keen logic, and the quotation of definite authority as did their opponents. On rejoinder, they failed
to touch the main and cardinal points advanced by Davidson. The subject debated was: "Resolved, That the Ship-Purchase Bill, as
introduced by Mr. Alexander in the House of Representatives, January 31, 1906, should be passed by Congress." Erskine argued the
affirmative, and Davidson the negative.

The first speaker on the affirmative, R. Caldwell, showed the need for a stronger merchant marine and claimed that we
had waited fifty years in vain for private capital to furnish adequate merchant ships. He also argued that a government
marine was needed as a naval auxiliary. Davidson's first speaker, J. A. Thames, argued that the Alexander Ship Purchase Bill
was inexpedient, impracticable, and unnecessary—inexpedient as a means of upbuilding the auxiliary branch of the Navy because the ships provided
would be unsuitable for such purposes; impracticable because it ignores and utterly fails to remove the fundamental causes for the
decline of our merchant marine; unnecessary because there is no lack of shipping facilities to handle American commerce.

The last speaker for the affirmative, W. D. Dickey of Erskine, stressed the point that, eliminating all other plans for
the upbuilding of a merchant marine, the proposition of the affirmative was the best and only means for rehabilitating it.
He argued that our need for ships was so imperative that the government should not hesitate to operate them, even
at a financial loss. Davidson's second speaker, W. H. Neal, argued forcefully the following points against the Alexander Bill: It
was against the principles of democracy; it would be a dangerous policy at present; government merchant marine could be run
only at a financial loss; it would hurt private enterprise; the small number of ships which it would furnish would
seem ridiculous in view of the large number required; and in conclusion, he submitted another plan for the upbuilding of
our merchant marine.

On rebuttal, Davidson used keen logic and definite authority to fine effect in answering the somewhat general statements of the
Erskine debaters. Two of the judges, Professors R. C. Burts and W. D. Magginis, being un- (Continued on page 4)

Wofford Winning Streak.

RICHMOND GAME

In a close and interesting game, Davidson defeated Richmond College Thursday by the score of 4 to 3, making the
fifth straight victory for the season. Lawson pitched good ball throughout the game and was seldom in danger. Joliffe, who
started in the box for Richmond, was not very effective and his support was bad. Three errors and a single
by Alford netted Davidson two runs in the first inning. Knight replaced Joliffe in the third but retired in favor
of Cox in the fifth, after two runs had been added off his delivery. Cox, who had pitched the day
before against A. & M., was in great form and held his opponents without a run for the remainder of
the game. Only one hit was garnered off his delivery during the four innings he worked. Pitt's triple and Craven's
single gave the Virginians one run in the second. In the seventh, Croswell and Craven singled in succession and a
wild throw by Black enabled them to score two more runs.

The feature of the game was the stickwork of the opposing catchers. Each got three hits during the course of
the game, which were largely responsible for the runs made. Black's triple and Lawson's single completed the number of hits
secured by Davidson. The fielding honors of the day go to third-baseman Pitt of the visitors.

Score by innings:
Davidson 201 010 000—4 4 5 2
Richmond 010 000 200—3 6 5

WOFFORD GAME

The Varsity continued its winning streak by easily defeating Wofford Monday afternoon 11 to 3, in a slow and one-sided
game. Lawson kept his opponents guessing at all times and allowed only five scattered hits. For the first three innings,
Eaddy, on the mound for Wofford, had the Davidson batters at his mercy, but during the rest of the time
he was in the box, he was hit freely. Outz took his place in the eighth inning and was a
little more effective, but errors by his teammates, coupled with two singles, gave Davidson four more runs. The fielding of
the Wofford team was unsteady, errors paving the way for many of Davidson's runs. Johnson was the particular star with
the stick, getting a triple and a double. For Wofford, Osbourne and Wiggins divided hitting honors, getting two singles each.
Cauthen, Wofford’s third baseman, put up a pretty fielding game, accepting ten chances without an error. Captain Alford caught a
good game, and his deadly peg was in evidence on many occasions. He had the misfortune to injure his knee
in sliding home in the eighth and will probably be kept out of the game for a few days.

Score by innings:
Davidson 000 250 04x—11 8 2
Wofford 000 201 000—3 5 4

OUR NEXT GAMES

Davidson will meet Trinity tomorrow and Friday in what promises to be two (Continued on page 4)
