EMORY WINS IN SECOND (Continued from page 1)

consulted, the right to encourage, and the right to warn.” He then went on to show that the House of
Commons are the real rulers and are directly accountable to the people. And responsibility and representation, he said, should be
the criterion by which to judge democracy. Not only is the American Chief Executive responsible to no one during his
term of office, but it is possible for him to be elected by a minority of the people, because of
our system of state units. Regardless, therefore, of whether the results of such a system are good or evil, he
said, undeniably it is not democratic.

Touching on the judiciary, he called attention to the power which the Supreme Court had arrogated to itself of passing
on the constitutionality of laws and thus often thwarting the will of the people as in the case of the
income tax law, which was delayed thirteen years by the vote of one single judge. He closed his argument with
the challenge to the negative to show a single agency in the British government which could effectually thwart the will
of the people, while in the United States he cited four—the all-powerful committee in the House of Representatives, the minority
in the Senate, the President’s veto, and the opinion of five judges appointed by the President and not accountable to
the people.

Cline spoke first on the negative, defending the Constitution on the grounds that restraint, rules, and principles of conduct are
necessary for the individual, and affirming that the State is only the individual writ large. He argued that the American
not only can, but has been changed by a true majority. He then endeavored to prove that the real power
of the English government is vested in the Cabinet, which is largely controlled by the King and Lords.

King, the second speaker on the negative, interspersing his arguments with frequent flashes of humor and satire, maintained in a
dramatic way that the one-party domination in England fails to express the will of the people as freely as the
American primaries. And after being elected he claimed that the House of Commons simply follows the dictates of the Cabinet,
which in turn is dominated by the Prime Minister. He illustrated this point with the story of the old sexton
who boasted that he could pump any tune the organist could play. The Commons, too, he said, could pump any
legislative tune the Cabinet plays. He then referred to the appointment of Bishops by the Crown and to their influence
in moulding public opinion, maintaining that no State could be truly democratic when there was such a direct connection between
Church and State.

Finally, he contrasted the central power of the British government with the State and local government of the United States,
and concluded by saying that if the Federal government were abolished the States could still exist with little or no
change in their present form of government.

DR. JOHNSON HERE SUNDAY.

Dr. T. C. Johnson filled the pulpit of the local Presbyterian church Sunday morning and evening. The subject of the
morning sermon was “Repentance,” in which he discussed the fruits of repentance, and those upon whom the demand of repentance
is laid. The subject of the evening sermon was “The Growth of the Kingdom of God.” In the afternoon, Dr.
Johnson spoke to the Ministerial Band.

R. R. Jones has returned after a weekend visit to his home at Walnut Cove, N.C.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 19, 1916

GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED

RED AND BLACK LOSE (Continued from page 1)

R. H. E
Davidson .. 2 7 3
Trinity .. . .10 9 8

Batteries—Shaw, Hengeveld and Alford; Mason, Lamb, Few, Beal, Few, and Lefer. Umpire, Cranford.

MARYVILLE GAME.

Maryville College, of Tennessee, took a pretty pitcher’s duel from the locals Saturday, 3 to 2. Currie, pitching his maiden
game for Davidson, showed great stuff, and let his opponents down with seven hits. La Rue pitched a masterful game
for the visitors, and Davidson got only seven hits. King got twoTimely singles for Maryville, out of four trials, and
starred with the willow for the visitors. Alford and Saunders starred for Davidson, each with a double and single out
of three attempts. Black took nine chances at the hot corner without a bobble, making a feature catch of McCall’s
long foul in the eighth. Walker, Johnson, and Saunders also furnished stellar catches of hard hits of the Maryville batters,
checking threatening rallies. It was the best game played on the Hill this year.

R. H. E.
Davidson .. .. .. 6... +. 2 7
Maryville... .... .. 3 7 2

Batteries—Currie and Alford; LaRue and Carver.

WINSTON GAME.

In a rather fast and exciting game, Davidson lost to the Winston Leaguers at Winston Monday by a score of
7 to 3. Inability to hit Glazener, who started the game for Winston, was the main factor in the team’s
defeat. Baumgardner, who succeeded Glazener in the sixth, was touched up for four hits, which counted for two runs. The
fielding of both teams was fast and snappy. Only one hour and thirty-five minutes was consumed in the playing of
the game. The only especial feature in the contest was Black’s home run, which went over the left field boards.

Score by innings:
Davidson .. .. 000 100 011—3 5 4
Winston .. .. 010 220 02x—7 10 3

Batteries—Lawson and Alford; Glazener, Baumgardner, and Ehrman.

BATTING AVERAGES TO DATE.

R. H. E. AB. H. P.C.
Alford .. .. .. .. 37 14 .379
Saunders .. .. .. 35 12 .343
Black .. .. .. .. 43 13 .303
Johnson .. .. .. 43 12 .277
Brown .. .. .. .. 38 9 .237
Wood .. .. .. .. 40 9 .222
Hengeveld .. .. .. 27 5 .185
Younger .. .. .. 23 4 .174
Lawson .. .. .. .. 18 3 .167
Walker .. .. .. .. 18 1 .055

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF HOLDS ANNUAL BANQUET

On last Thursday night, the retiring and incoming Davidsonian staffs held their annual banquet in the Civic League hall. Besides
the members of the two staffs, there were present L. A. Mullen, representing the Annual; J. M. McBryde, representing the
Magazine, and Mr. Jackson, from the College. J. P. Williams, retiring editor-in-chief, acted as toastmaster. Among the speeches of the
evening, those of Mr. Jackson and Price were the most edifying, while the remarks of Mullen were very witty and
interesting. The banquet was served by the Civic League and proved one of enjoyment to all. The hall and table
were very prettily decorated with spring flowers.

J. M. Wearn, '18, was initiated into the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity last week.

We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars, and Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty. We appreciate your patronage.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds.” Your trade is
appreciated.

L. A. HAT ATM?
The Flyless Restaurant
TORRENCE & HELPER
Also Auto Service

SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.
Fountain Pens Stationery
Make our Store Your “Meeting Place”

Jetton Drug Co.
Your prescriptions are compounded with the best.

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT.
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

ELLIOTT L. STONEWALL —Charlotte, N. C.—
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N.C.
WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N.C.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

BASEBALL SHOES
To play well you must be well shod.
“CLUB SPECIAL” SPRINTING No. OS, the pair $5.00
Long-time favorites on all ball fields. Catalogue mailed on request.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA.

The COMMISSARY
Give your Shoe Repair Work To
JOHNSON & MERKS'
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Headquarters For Davidson Men.
