The DAVIDSONIAN, September 27, 1916

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
E. A. Woods, T. N. Morton, W. C. Neel, L. C. McAskill, H. A. Campbell, K. P. Coachman, C. F.
Allen, O. J. Thies, Jr., W. C. Frierson, T. W. Hawkins.

MANAGEMENT:
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
L. K. Boggs
L. H. Patterson
Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

PROCRASTINATION.
Perhaps as a thief of time, Procrastination finds more abundant and easier swag in a college community than anywhere else.
“Put off till tomorrow what you can do today” seems to be the slogan of our college student. An instance
of this is the Senior, who dallies on beds of roses until the last month of his college career and
then works himself into a nervous breakdown before the first of June. We are all, more or less, victims of
the deadly germ of Procrastination. Perhaps the basis of this failing is the innate tendency in mankind toward hopefulness—hopefulness, in
this case, that something will come up to relieve us of our duty. The most effective remedy which we have
found for this disease is the proposition of the Daily Schedule. According to this plan, the subject takes a little
time each night and plans the work for every minute on the following day. He plans what time he will
devote to study, what to play, how much time he will give to reading, how much to thought and devotion.
And thus he has a working plan for each day. He figures out his most effective routine and if strictly
followed, it will eliminate most of his dilly-dallying and delay. The flexibility of the schedule avoids any danger of making
us machine men. In the questions recently published, the answers to which determined the relative efficiency of any man, one
question was, “Do you plan each day in advance?” F. H. S.

Davidson, we believe, is unique in having eight services every Sunday. Those who have it in charge should spell it
gym-nay-seum. One could hardly have Spring fever this late in the year, but in many a Fall of spirits is
discernible. We hope the Lyceum won't be this year what Tom Finley said it was last year, all “ly” and
no “seum.” We will be judged in direct proportion to what we do, and in indirect proportion to what we
can do. It is a pity that someone cannot concoct a new program for Literary Societies. The present form has
become gray-headed. Members of the South Carolina Club, who have been jibed in past years because of their friend, Blease,
can be spotted at present by their expressions of relief.

MINISTERIAL BAND HAS ENJOYABLE “FEED”
On Saturday night the Ministerial Band held a “feed” in the Commencement Hall. Sixty-nine members were present, and six tables
were crowded with the good things to eat. Needless to say they soon disappeared. After the “eats,” several of the
new members of the band were called on for speeches. Among these were: Freeman, of Steele Creek; Roberts, of Wilmington;
Sullivan, of Atlanta; and Penick, of Arkansas. Some impromptu songs were rendered by Messrs. Freeman, Davenport and Brown, and then
the whole company united in singing the college songs.The object of this gathering was, as the president stated, to get
the members together, and to get acquainted with the new men. The committee in charge of this entertainment were Bellingrath,
chairman, Cumming, and Eikel.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING

The first meeting of the year of the Blue Pencil Club was held last Thursday, September 21, in the hall
of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. At this time Dr. Wharey, of the department of English of the University of
Texas, gave a most instructive and enjoyable talk on the life and work of Sidney Lanier. This club has regular
monthly meetings, at which time papers on various subjects or short stories are read, discussed, and criticized. The best essay
written by a club member is submitted in the Essayists contest conducted by the chapters of Sigma Upsilon. In 1915
the contest was won by G. W. Gignilliat, of the local chapter. The local membership now includes S. R. Keesler,
Jr., T. J. Mitchell, W. Y. Sayad, P. B. Price, S. T. Henderson, S. M. Crisp, Dr. M. G. Fulton,
Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle.

OUR ADVERTISERS.

Did you ever stop to think where the money comes from to publish The Davidsonian? Only half of it comes
from the subscribers; the other half is paid by the advertisers. They are paying half the cost of your paper,
and it is nothing but right that you should in turn give them your trade whenever possible. Those who advertise
in The Davidsonian are most reliable in every way, and every advertisement is guaranteed. When you read this paper, do
not fail to read the ads also, and when you make your next purchase give our advertisers first chance. They
will appreciate it and the managers will be better able to get out a good paper.

W. H. Neal, Mgr.

IMPROVEMENTS BEING MADE ON GOLF COURSE

Golf has taken a strong hold on the athletically inclined, and it is hoped that many new members may be
enrolled this year. The course, though not perfect, is good enough to learn on. In preparation for the season, the
greens are rapidly being put in order and the fairways are being mowed.

Are You A Subscriber to The Davidsonian? If Not, WHY NOT?

Every loyal alumnus should keep in touch with the College and its activities, and the only way to do this
is through the pages of The Davidsonian. Are You A Loyal Alumnus? If so, send in your name and address,
with your dollar, at once, so as not to miss a single copy.

GOOD PRINTING CONSISTS OF MORE THAN INK, TYPE & PAPER

While there is nothing mysterious about the process, it requires, among other things, good judgment, taste, and a desire to
keep ahead or above the average. The goodness of printing is governed by the printer’s equipment plus his ability to
use it. We have a generous supply of both and are constantly adding to them. "Every Job A Good One."
Our line embraces all kinds and classes of work, but we prefer to do the better kind. If you desire
the best in any class we can meet your requirements, and guarantee to please you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
W. H. NEAL, Davidson Agent

Parker Fountain Pens WRITE RIGHT
PATTERSON & GILBERT, Agts.
At The Commissary

For the Best Line of CANDIES and FRUITS IN TOWN COME TO Elliott’s Store
Come in. We are always glad to serve you. We keep something good to eat all the time.

Sanitary Barber Shop
E. R. Jenks, Proprietor

A New Line of College Jewelry
Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc.
Torrence’s Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN: We are here to serve you.
