6 The DAVIDSONIAN, November 15, 1916

plays by close margin. Folger forced to kick, netting 40 yards. Black made 6. N.C. penalized 5 yards for off-side
on next play, making it first down. Black made 2. R. Walker punted 45 yards out of bounds, Folger made
10 yards. Coleman made 6. Sayad threw Tennant for loss.

FOURTH QUARTER

Folger made 2. Folger punted 40 yards to Keesler, who fumbled. N.C. recovered. N.C.’s ball on 22-yard line.

DAVIDSON LOSES STATE TITLE

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. . . We want to
serve you.

Three line bucks netted 8 and it was fourth down and 2 to go. Tandy kicked field goal. Land Flowers
and Lawson sent in for DAVIDSON COLLEGE Burns, Singleton, and Keesler. Tandy kicks off to Black on 20-yard line, who
returns 5. Laird, Flowers, and Black netted 8 yards on three line plays. R. Walker kicked 45 yards, D.C. recovering.
Ball on Carolina's 25-yard line. Laird made 5 and Lawson 3. Laird fumbled ball on end run, N.C. recovering. Two
line bucks netted Carolina 8 yards. Folger on tackle play ran 61 yards for touchdown. Tandy kicked goal. Tandy kicked
off to Lawson on 25-yard line, who returned 8 yards. Black made 6 yards on a fake. Lawson dropped back
and hurled a beautiful pass which soared 30 yards down the field, where it was grabbed on the dead run
by Flowers. A Carolina back was close behind, but Flowers outdistanced him and passed the goal line after a 30-yard
run. Flowers missed a close try at goal. Tandy kicked off to Black on 12-yard line, who returned 19 yards.
Black lost 3 on end run, Davidson team back for a consultation. Lawson made another pretty pass, Bob Walker receiving
it, for a gain of 9 yards. Another pass to Walker made it first down. Lawson made 5. Two pretty
passes failed by close margin. Flowers made it first down.

(Continued from page 5)

For Carolina, Folger was the outstanding star, and to him must be given great credit. His spectacular 61-yard run was
one of the big features of the game. Tennant proved also a consistent ground gainer. Love and Crawford played stellar
games at end.

THE GAME

Tandy kicked off to Black, who returned to 30-yard line. Black made 2, Burns 5, and C. Walker 2 through
the “impregnable” Carolina line, and it was first down. C. Walker made 3, Carolina being penalized 5 for off-side play.
Keesler made it first down. Burns and C. Walker’s line plunges resulted in another first down for Davidson. Three line
bucks netted 9 yards, but on the fourth Carolina held and the ball went over. N.C.’s ball on their 38-yard
line. A line buck failed and Folger punted 40 yards to Keesler. R. Walker punted 50 yards, well out of
danger, D.C. gaining 10 yards on the exchange of punts. Carolina tried three line bucks which failed to net distance.
Folger kicked 45 yards to Keesler, who returned 20 yards. Carolina was judged off-side on this play, and Captain White
chose to take the penalty. Folger kicked 45 yards, Keesler returning 25. Burns made 6 through line and on the
next play made it first down. Black went over left tackle for gain of 8 yards and then bucked line
for another first down. Burns hit the line for 9 yards. Steve Walker made 5 and first down. Ball on
Carolina's 12-yard line. C. Walker made 5. Burns carried ball to 9-yard line, but fumbled, N.C. recovering. Folger punted 40
yards and Keesler fumbled, N.C. recovering. Folger kicked 35 yards. R. Walker punted 40 yards out of bounds, down on
end run. A pass to Black made 12 yards, Laird made 5. A pass to Flowers failed and the ball
went over.

We Excel in SERVICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want---where you are served in the
right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you.Carolina another
— first down. Folger made 1, Tennant 2. D. C. off-side, penalized 5. On next play N. C. penalized 15
yards for holding. Tennant failed to gain on fake kick formation. Forward pass netted 10 yards. Fourth down, 13 yards
to go. Folger missed pass, but N. C. recovered. Folger kicked 45 yards, Burns made 6 and C. Walker hit
tackle for first down. Ball on N. C.’s 30-yard line. Keesler made 3. Burns tore off his usual 6 yards.
Burns made it first down. Keesler fumbled, N. C. recovering. Folger made 8 yards. Tennant made it first down. Carolina
failed to gain thru line and failed on two forward passes. D. C.’s ball. R. Walker punted 45 yards, Folger
returning 10. Successive line bucks netted first down. Carolina failed in hitting line, and tried two passes, which failed, the
ball going over on downs. Quarter up.

THIRD QUARTER

Grey kicked off to Folger, who returned 24 yards. Folger lost 3. Tennant failed. Folger kicked 50 yards, ball rolling
over goal. D. C.’s ball 20-yard line. C. Walker made 4. R. Walker punted 45 yards out of danger. After
two plays Folger punted, ball rolling to D. C’s 5-yard line, where Keesler recovered it. Black made 6 thru left
tackle. R. Walker punted 45 yards to Folger, who fumbled and Grey fell on ball. D. C.’s ball on their
35-yard line. R. Walker kicked 45 yards to Folger, who fumbled. Grey recovered the ball on 25-yard line, but officials
ruled that Davidson man had tackled Folger when he did not have ball, and gave the ball to N. C.
and gave them first down. This decision can be questioned. Folger punted to D. C.’s 25-yard line out of bounds.
Black tore through right tackle for 8 yards. Burns made it first down. Black on a fake gained 18 yards.
Burns made 5 thru center. C. Walker made 3. Ball goes over after two line bucks and the game was
over.

Score by periods:
Carolina 0 0 0 10—Total 10
Davidson 0 0 0 6—Total 6

Summary: Referee, Henderson, Ohio Wesleyan. Umpire, Hodgson, V. P. I. Headlinesman, Broughton, Wake Forest. Timekeepers, Moore, Davidson, and Wright, Carolina.
Time of periods, 15 minutes each. Substitutions: Carolina, Williams for Johnson; Coleman for Folger; Ranson for Love; Folger for Coleman;
Watkins for Tennant; Fitzsimmons for Bellamy; Love for Ranson; Black for Watkins; Barton for Grimes; Proctor for Crawford. Davidson: Elliott
for T. White; Laird for Burns; Flowers for C. Walker; Lawson for Keesler; King for R. Walker; Paisley for Grey.
Touchdowns, Folger and Flowers. Goal from touchdown, Tandy. Field goal, Tandy.

Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White
M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Davidson Pressing Club
Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
Just Opened
(One door above Scofields)
Everything New
Smiley Washam, Mgr. & Prop.
Hours: 7:30 A. M. to 10:00 P. M.
ALSO MOTOR SERVICE

Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN

JUST RECEIVED EXTENSIVE LINE
King Quality Shoes
New Models
LET US FIT YOU

The club enjoyed one of the biggest “layouts” ever seen on such an occasion. All were in joyous anticipation of
the re-election of Virginia’s greatest living statesman. After an enjoyable time, the meeting broke up to hear the election returns.

L. S. Patterson, College Representative
Frank P. Morton, Manager
