The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II.

Local Laymen Hold Their Annual Meeting; Plans Made for a Town Y.M.C.A. --- Banquet Enjoyed.

On Thursday evening at 8 o'clock, the laymen of the local Presbyterian church held their annual meeting in the Civic League hall. A committee of ladies of the church, composed of Mesdames Brady, Shelton, Arbuckle, H. J. Brown, J. M. McConnell, Cranford, and Miss Minnie Scofield, had prepared a banquet for the occasion, and a most enjoyable evening was spent by the seventy-five men who attended. During the evening, topics of town improvement were discussed and plans made. Dr. C. R. Harding acted as toastmaster, and the speeches of the occasion were made by Rev. Bolling Hobson, of Cornelius; Professor Currie, Drs. Arbuckle, J. M. McConnell, C. M. Richards, and Messrs. F. L. Jackson and C. L. Grey. Plans for a town Y.M.C.A. were discussed, and a committee appointed to work on the plan and to ask for the cooperation of the other denominations of the town. The officers elected for the coming year are: C. L. Grey, president; Avery Hobbs, vice-president; W. H. Thompson, treasurer; James Blue, secretary.

W. G. SOMERVILLE LEAVES COLLEGE

It was with great regret that last week the Y.M.C.A. cabinet received the resignation of the president, W. G. Somerville, who was leaving college to accept a position as Assistant National Bank Examiner in the district of Virginia and West Virginia. Somerville entered the Sophomore class in Davidson in the fall of 1913, and rapidly won his way into the hearts of the entire student body by his friendly spirit and ready helpfulness. He has entered into practically every student activity and has stood high in his classes throughout his entire course. He has always stood for the very best in college life. The Y.M.C.A., which has been built up year by year, has probably passed the best year of its history under his administration. Two important things stand out in this work—the Chapman-Alexander meetings and the completion of the Social Center, which has proven so popular this year. Other things, less outstanding but just as important, have entered into this work. It has been with universal regret that everyone has learned that Somerville has found it best to leave at this time.

MISSION STUDY CLASSES BEGIN SPRING WORK

The enrollment of this year’s Mission Study classes is 115. It is thought others will be added to this number, as several were not seen by those canvassing. These Mission Study classes will take the place of last fall's Bible Study classes. Last year, the study of missions proved to be very interesting, and it is believed that a large number of students will be enrolled within the next few weeks.

Junior Speaking Plans

Exercises Begin on the Afternoon of the Twenty-fifth.

Plans are being made for Junior Speaking, which is only a short time off, the exact date being February 25 and 26. The Orchestra has been given the date for Saturday night, February 26. The president of the Junior class has appointed as a committee on decorations, S. R. Keesler, F. H. Baker, C. K. Schwarz, and P. B. Price. The program is as follows:

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 3 P.M.
F. H. Baker (Eu), Savannah, Ga.: Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy.
N. B. Boney, Wallace, N.C.: Our South American Policy.
A. Brown (Eu), American Sea Power.
J. W. Bullock (Phi), Bullock, N.C.: Our Duty to the Philippines.
H. A. Campbell (Phi), Aberdeen, N.C.: The Proposed Tariff Commission.
G. L. Cooper (Phi), Graham, N.C.: Universal Peace.
A. R. Craig (Phi), Pendleton, N.C.: Child Labor Prohibition.
L. H. Eikel (Eu), Fort White, Fla.: The True American.
T. A. Finley (Phi), North Wilkesboro, N.C.: Prepared Citizenship.
J. P. Gillespie (Eu), Florence, S.C.: The Price of Success.
S. C. Harriss, Albemarle, N.C.: Immigration After the War.
S. T. Henderson (Phi), Charlotte, N.C.: The South's Crown of Glory.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 7:30 P.M.
J. K. Hobson (Eu), Cornelius, N.C.: What Do They Receive at Our Hands?
R. Howard, Tarboro, N.C.: Child of Europe.
D. V. Hudson (Eu), Davidson, N.C.: Medicine in China.
C. R. Jenkins (Eu), Charleston, S.C.: Pan Americanism, Possible or Impossible?
S. R. Keesler (Eu), Greenwood, Miss.: One For All—All For One.
W. P. Keesler, Greenwood, Miss.: The Enemy of the Cotton States.
Music.
J. P. Laird, Decatur, Ga.: Prospects for Prosperity.
D. W. Lane, Palatka, Fla.: Supplanter of the Hay-Burner.
J. W. Mann (Phi), Mebane, N.C.: The Present Forces.
W. E. Mattison (Eu), Anderson, S.C.: The Federal Reserve System.
H. F. Mayfield, Anderson, S.C.: The Demand for Rural Credit.
J. W. Miller, Sherrill’s Ford, N.C.: Superstitions, Signs and Omens.

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 10 A.M.
F. M. Mitchell (Eu), Edisto Island, S.C.: Back to the Farm.
T. J. Mitchell (Eu), Thomasville, Ga.: The Goal of the Centuries.
H. S. Morgan (Eu), Atlanta, Ga.: The Cry of the Children.
J. R. Morton (Eu), Savannah, Ga.: L’Animal Sert L’Homme.
R. L. Murray (Phi), Greensboro, N.C.: The Possibilities of the Negro.
D. I. McKeithen (Phi), Aberdeen, N.C.: The Scandal of Our Federal Appropriation Bills.
Corinth, Miss.: The (Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FEBRUARY 9, 1916

Juniors Defeat Sophs In Class Football Race For Championship Tightens as Result of This Victory.

Saturday afternoon, in the third game of the inter-classFootball series, the Juniors defeated the Sophomores by a score of 12 to 0. Worth kicked off for the Sophs 40 yards. Porter returned 10. On the next play Porter lost the ball, and Worth recovered it. By the end of the first quarter, the Juniors had forced the Sophs to their 13-yard line. The Juniors made their first touchdown by a series of line plunges early in the second quarter. Shane failed to kick goal. Worth again kicked off for the Sophs. At the close of the first half, the ball was near the middle of the field. At the opening of the third quarter, McMillan kicked off for the Juniors. Cousar fumbled and McMillan recovered. The Juniors then forced the Sophomores back to within a yard of their goal, but the Sophs held them. Worth kicked out, but they were soon forced back. The second touchdown was made when Murray blocked the punt attempted by the Sophs near their goal line and fell on the ball. Porter failed to kick goal. In the fourth quarter, the ball was held in the Sophs' territory. Keesler attempted a place kick but missed. There were a number of unsuccessful passes attempted by both teams. When the whistle blew, the ball was again in the middle of the field. Murray and McMillan played good ball in the line for the Juniors; Porter and Shane starred in the backfield. For the Sophs, Worth and Therrell did good playing. The lineup was as follows:

Juniors, Position, Sophomores
Craigs........RE........Jones
McMillan......RT........Linfield
McKinnon.....RG........Mountcastle
Smith.........C.........Clark
Mann..........LG........Cousar
Mayfield......LT........Therrell
Murray........LE........Richardson (c)
Shane.........QB........Overton
Keesler.......FB........Shaw
Porter........LH........Worth
Hampton......RH........Fowle

Substitutions—Sophs: Armistead for Fowle, Douglas for Mountcastle. Referee: Fetzer. Umpire: Klutz.

ANNUAL VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE AT GREENSBORO

The Student Volunteer Union of North Carolina holds its annual conference at State Normal College, Greensboro, February 11-13. A large number of the local band expect to attend. It will be a great opportunity for those who are interested in missions, as the State Laymen’s Conference of Foreign Missions will be held at the same time, and there will be several prominent speakers present. The local Volunteer Band is one of the largest in the world, and it should be well represented at this conference.

Dr. John W. McConnell has received his commission as first lieutenant in the Medical Corps, National Guard, and will command a company in the approaching encampment at Chicamauga, Tennessee, early in the summer.

No. 17. Two More Victories For Red and Black

Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and Guilford Fall Before Locals’ Attack.

CHARLOTTE GAME.

“Who will make it fifty?” yelled an enthusiastic fan, as the Davidson quint rushed the ball down the goal for the 48th point over the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. But the 50th point was not forthcoming, and the game ended 49 to 37, with Davidson maintaining a stranglehold on the long end. The game was very fast and interesting, and perhaps the most exciting seen on the Davidson court this year. The first half was rather slow, with Charlotte easily holding the advantage until the last few minutes, when Davidson took a new grip and pulled the score up to 20-18, D. C's favor. The second half opened with a rush which did not cease until the last whistle blew. The lead see-sawed from one side to the other for about five minutes, when, with a rush like a tornado, the Davidson rally arrived. Eleven points were rolled up in about four minutes, before Charlotte could catch her breath. In vain the Queen City lads made shifts in their lineup in attempts to stem the tide, but the tide would not be stemmed. Time was called out for a moment, and the Davidson pep was lost, but the whirlwind floor work of both teams continued, with Charlotte gaining a slight advantage. Davenport and Howell were the leading lights for the visitors, with Crook playing a splendid defensive game. Indeed, it was the air-tight guarding of Crook and Ross that held the Davidson team in check during the first half. King, forward, who seemed to be on the ball wherever it landed, and who fought for every inch of ground, was the star for Davidson. Hengeveld furnished some of the prettiest scoring work seen this season, and repeatedly made seemingly impossible goals. Walker played the best defensive game of the locals. The lineup:

Davidson, Position, Char. Y. M. C. A.
King..........Forward........Marsh
Childs........Forward........Davenport
Hengeveld....Centre.........Howell
Reese (c).....Guard..........Crook (c)
Younger......Guard..........Ross

Substitutions—Walker for Younger, Wood for Younger. Field Goals—Davenport 7, King 3, Reese 5, Hengeveld 8, Howell 4, Marsh 2, Crook 2, Wood 2, Childs, Younger. Foul Goals—Crook 5, King 3, Reese 2. Referee: Booe.

GUILFORD GAME.

The second game of the week also resulted in a victory for Davidson, Guilford being taken into camp to the tune of 45 to 18. The Guilfordians seemed bewildered by the intricate passes and plays unwound by the locals, and could not stem the torrent of Davidson points that poured through the basket at all times. T. Seamans, guard, played a very plucky game and deserves special credit. For Davidson, King, Hengeveld, and Reese shared honors. The lineup:

Davidson, Position, Guilford
King..........Forward........Smith

(Continued on page 4)