2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price............. Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
R. W. Robinson, J. T. Maddrey, C. J. Matthews, A. R. Craig, W. C. Cumming, H. B. Elliot, W. B. Harwood, T. C. Stone, N. Y. Pharr, S. T. Henderson, H. A. Campbell, O. C. Williamson, P. N. Morton, J. W. Clark, J. W. Harrison, R. H. Bennett, R. W. Carson, R. E. McClure, J. R. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr. Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

PEP.
Splendid as was the victory over A. & M., there is one thing that we were even gladder to see. That is the pep which was shown by the students in Charlotte. It was the best organized, most lively yelling that has been heard by Davidson students for two years. It is that kind of pep which will make Davidson victorious. It is that kind of pep that makes men cheer and smile in spite of defeat. It is that kind of pep that makes the fame of Davidson spread. It is that kind of pep that we, as alumni, will remember long after the game and victory are forgotten.

TENNIS COURTS.
Just before the tennis tournament began, a few men with hoes and lime spent a half an hour working on the championship court, and when they had finished, “How much better that looks” broke spontaneously from the lips of several. A few half hours spent on each court by a few men could put at Davidson about a dozen first-class tennis courts instead of places fringed with weeds and incorrectly marked with zigzag lines scratched in the ground. It might be a good idea for the Tennis Association to take over the courts, and by charging a small membership fee, hire a man to keep all the courts swept, rolled, marked with lime, and put the nets up. This would certainly make the game more enjoyable and develop better players.

ARTICLES WORTH READING IN CURRENT MAGAZINES
Continuing the custom adopted last year, THE DAVIDSONIAN has arranged to publish again this year from time to time a short list of worth-while articles which come out in the current magazines. While this is not a complete directory of all that is good in the magazines, it is hoped that it will provide a kind of directory to help students find the things that are interesting and really worth the time it takes to read them. The list is made with care, and an attempt is made to include in it not only articles on economic, social and political questions, etc., but some of the best stories and poems as well.

Review of Reviews: “The Railroad Eight-Hour Law;” “Germany in Retreat;” “Rumania.”
World’s Work: “The Case for Wilson;” “The Case for Hughes;” “Training the Liver.”
Atlantic Monthly: “James Whitcomb Riley;” “Our Relations With Great Britain.”
Forum: “Revolution or Dissolution for Organized Religion. Which?” “The American College;” “Our Immigrant Young and the Anglo-Saxon Ideal.”

WHAT OTHERS SAY.
The following are extracts from several unsolicited letters from alumni expressing their opinion in regard to THE DAVIDSONIAN:
“I wish to become more closely affiliated with an institution which association with men from other colleges and universities has proven to me to be most thorough for instilling into her sons principles pertaining to real citizenship—that intangible element in a man’s make-up which makes him serve and apply irrespective of his vocation.”shall accept The Davidsonian as the official organ, hoping it will prove the usefulness to her that she does to her sons.”

“I am enclosing one dollar for subscription to The Davidsonian. It is a splendid medium for information of the everyday life and happenings of the college. I read it eagerly each week.”

“Enclosed find check for The Davidsonian this year. I have been taking this paper every year since it has been published, and since it comes from Davidson I don’t think I have seen a single copy of it which was not interesting.”

POLITY CLUB MEETING.

At the meeting of the International Polity Club on last Friday night, Dr. T. W. Lingle made a very interesting review of Fried’s recent book, “The Restoration of Europe,” which has been translated from the German by Mr. Lewis S. Gannett, who paid Davidson a visit last spring at the time of the organization of the Polity Club. Both the review of the translation and the discussion that followed brought out a number of matters of interest in regard to the subject of international arbitration—a question that is vital to the world today.

It was decided to bring the number of student members of the Polity Club up to twenty, the limit allowed by the constitution, and the matter of changing the limit so as to further extend the membership was favorably considered. The object of the club in America as well as in other countries is to disseminate information and ideas in regard to international relations and it is evident that this can be more effectively done the larger the number. The club expects to have several leaders of the national movement here as speakers during the year and of course the whole student body will be invited to hear their addresses. Announcements will be made later in regard to this feature.

Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling, ‘77, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, will deliver the address on Davidson Day. The observance of this day will be held on the 28th of this month, and an account of the event in more detail will appear in the next issue of The Davidsonian.

The Young College Man who appreciates smartness in dress will find here the correct apparel---“Pinch Back” and English Effects tailored by the best makers of Young Men’s Clothes. Form fitting and full back Overcoats---warm and good looking. Shoes, Hats and Furnishings of the latest mode.

Mail Orders Have Our Prompt Attention
Ed. Mellon Company
CHARLOTTE

GOOD PRINTING CONSISTS OF MORE THAN INK, TYPE & PAPER

While there is nothing mysterious about the process, it requires, among other things, good judgment, taste, and a desire to keep ahead or above the average. The goodness of printing is governed by the printer’s equipment plus his ability to use it. We have a generous supply of both and are constantly adding to them. Every job a coupon.

Our line embraces all kinds and classes of work, but we prefer to do the better kind. If you desire the best in any class we can meet your requirements, and guarantee to please you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
W. H. NEAL, Davidson Agent

Support the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods, Foot Ball Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

You can write on the Corona
The personal writing machine
Come in and let us prove it to you
J. E. Crayton & Co.
217 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.

A New Line of College Jewelry
Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc.
Torrence's Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN:
We are here to serve you.
Ashby-2% Lexicon-2% ESRON 18 cts. each, 2 for 90 cts.
CLYETT, PEABODY & CO. INC.
Makers

For the Best Line of CANDIES and fruit IN TOWN COME TO Elliott’s Store. We keep something good to eat all the time. Come in. We are always glad to see you.

Sanitary Barber Shop
E. R. Jenks, Proprietor