6 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 4, 1916

PLANS ARE BEING MADE FOR NEW GYMNASIUM

Mr. Robert Smallwood, a well-known architect of New York and a Davidson alumnus, was here last week to discuss plans
with Dr. Martin for the construction of the new $25,000 gymnasium. As soon as Mr. Smallwood completes the plans, the
work of building the gymnasium is expected to begin. The plans will be submitted to the executive committee this month,
and they will also decide at that time the date for the beginning and completion of the work, and whether
the building shall be built under the immediate direction of a contractor or by local talent connected with the college.

According to the tentative plans, the main entrance will be directly to the rear of the Chambers building, with the
first floor or basement nearly on the ground level. On this floor will be a swimming pool, shower baths, dressing
rooms, lockers, and probably a classroom. The main entrance will be on the second floor, and on either side will
be offices. The gymnasium and dressing room will be on this floor. The third floor will have apartments for instructors,
a large club room, and a classroom.

FIRST MAGAZINE SOON.

All the Davidson men will be interested to hear that the Magazine will soon come out. It went to press
the second of the month and should be ready for distribution in about two weeks. Under the editorship of L.
A. Chambliss, the Magazine this year promises to be one of the best that the college has known. It will
be completely changed in appearance and promises a great improvement over the old Magazine. In addition to the regular contents,
it will contain special articles on education and articles of interest on college life at Davidson. Added to these features
will be a new department, a Book Review, which promises to add much interest to the Magazine. It is the
wish of the editor that all the students will join him in helping to make the Magazine have the most
successful year it has ever experienced.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

During the past summer, one hundred and eighty-five new books were added to the library, and also a number of
old ones were rebound. Of this number, about sixty are bound magazines. The usual number of new works of fiction
have been added. Among the books added are: Caliban, Mackaye; Best Short Stories of 1916, O’Brien; Birds and Man, Hudson;
With Americans Past and Present, Jusserand; Character and Temperament, Jastrow; Woodrow Wilson, Ford; Book of Princeton (verse) Noyes; Desert, Van
Dyke; Mountain, Van Dyke; Opal Sea, Van Dyke; How to Live, Fisher and Fisk. The last named is one that
every Davidson man should read. “The purpose of this book is to spread knowledge of individual hygiene and thus to
promote the aims of the Life Extension Institute,” by whom it has been approved.

To date, the total amount subscribed by the students to the support of Rev. W. P. Parker, Davidson's missionary in
Korea, is $578. It is hoped that the goal of $600 will be reached before the close of the campaign.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle went to Raleigh Monday morning to attend a meeting of the executive committee of the North
Carolina Conference for Social Service, of which President Graham, of the University of North Carolina, is chairman.

ANNUAL FALL CAMPAIGN

We are always glad to serve you. Drink at our fountain. Prescriptions compounded with the best drugs by a registered
pharmacist.Age Shell paid Davidson a very high compliment by quoting a statement made by one of his friends, Mr. Fletcher
S. Brockman, to the effect that if the world knew of the Christian atmosphere prevalent here at Davidson, our dormitories
could not begin to hold our successive Freshman classes. Then he went on to say that, as is true of
all colleges, there is still much room for improvement, and, as a representative of the Student Volunteer Movement, he pointed
out the three movements this organization is trying to place in the hearts of each and every one of us,
namely: (1) the building of character, for men so equipped are in great demand; (2) the highest intellectual training; and
(3) the rendering at every opportunity of the very highest service.

At the evening service, Mr. Hounshell disclosed the most destructive force in college life against which we must contend. He
stated that more than one half of the men in colleges are being ruined and deprived of their real worth
and value by this one evil. The cry throughout the world at this time is: “Where is the true man?”
and for us to be able to answer this call, we must lead a careful everyday life so as to
enable us to stand up under the many sudden pressures brought to bear upon us.

In his other talks, Mr. Hounshell pointed out the need of our accepting the will of God in preference to
our own. He showed how no man can attain his highest and best in life without being a Christian, and
no matter what our life's work shall be, we have all to gain by making the will of Christ dominant
in our lives. The hurry and scurry of our present age is mainly because men, in all their pleasures, are
still blindly seeking satisfaction which can be met with only through Christ. Confession, he said, is the one way of
removing all difficulties in our way, and this is an easy matter if we will only trust in God.

The Y. M. C. A. is to be heartily congratulated on securing such efficient leaders as Mr. Hounshell and Mr.
Morton. We are sure that the spiritual needs on the campus have been met with and satisfied to a large
degree.

DAVIDSON SHOWS UP WELL
(Continued from page 1)

Russell for McKay, Calvert for Russell, Stewart for Blakey, Carnick for Goodwin, Leach for Carnick, Wagenknight for White, Pace for
Carrington. Davidson: Shaw for Finlay, Crouch for Shaw, Pharr for Grey, Paisley for Pharr, Lawson for Flowers, Black for McAlister,
Burns for Laird.

THE A. & M. GAME

The Student Body is looking forward with a great deal of interest to the game this afternoon, declined to make
any forecasts in regard to the game, but says the present indications are that the squad will be in much
better shape than they were for the Virginia game. The team has not been picked yet, but about twenty-five men
will be taken to Charlotte.

COMPARATIVE SCORES OF SATURDAY'S GAMES

Carolina, 20; Wake Forest, 0.
Clemson, 7; Furman.
A&M, 13; Roanoke, 3.
Georgia, 6; Citadel, 0.

Boost the ATHLETIC Association by purchasing your athletic goods and college pennants at the Rexall Store, WHITE DRUG CO. Best
line of tennis goods, football clothes, pennants, etc.

Come to our fountain for your drinks. Tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and everything in drugs and stationery. The Student Body is
looking forward with a great deal of interest to the game. Jetton Drug Co. United Motor Lines cater to special
trips for students. Special rates to Davidson men.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES
Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Frank P. Morton, Manager
L. Patterson, College Representative
