The DAVIDSONIAN, October 11, 1916

A. & M. DEFEATED
(Continued from page 1)

guard. Flowers punts 50 yards to Rice, who is downed by Grey. Van Brocklin gains 1 thru center. Center passes
over Rice’s head and Rice recovers on his own 12-yard line. Rice kicks 30 yards to Keesler, who returns 3.
Black gains 2 on tackle play. Keesler gains 6 around right end. Burns on line buck makes it first down.
Keesler bucks line for 4½. Black makes 3 thru tackle. Keesler tries end run but is tackled 5 yards behind
line by Cooke. Laird goes in for Burns. Quarter ends with Davidson in possession of ball on A. & M.’s
20-yard line. D. C., 0; A. & M., 0.

SECOND QUARTER
Pharr goes in for Grey. Keesler fumbles on first play, but recovers. Two line bucks fail. On fourth down Flowers,
standing on 30-yard line, kicks field goal. Baughan is substituted for Hodgin. Lee kicks to 20-yard line, C. Walker returning
8 yards. Keesler thrown for loss. Laird gains 8 over tackle. Walker makes it first down. Keesler fumbles and McDougall
recovers. McDougall gains 5 thru tackle and Rice 4 around left end. Van Brocklin makes it first down on line
buck. Pierson makes 7½ around left end. Rice makes it first down. Black tackles Van Brocklin 5 yards behind line.
Rice gains 2½. Van Brocklin attempts forward pass, which is intercepted by Flowers, D. C.’s ball on their 23-yard line.
Keesler goes thru left tackle for 8½ yards. Laird fails to gain. Black makes it first down. Laird fumbles and
Van Brocklin recovers. Whittaker goes in for Homewood. Pierson tackled behind line by Walker brothers and fumbles, Sayad recovering. A.
& M. penalized 5 yards for offside play. Keesler tries forward pass, which is intercepted by Van Brocklin. Rice loses
3. Pierson gains 2 on tackle play. Van Brocklin loses 5 on fake pass. McDougall punts 30 yards. D. C.’s
ball on their 42-yard line. Keesler and C. Walker make successive end runs, netting 8 yards. Laird fumbles, recovered by
Seifert. Failing to gain on line plays Van Brocklin tries forward pass, which is intercepted by C. Walker. Time up
for half. Score, D. C., 0; A. & M., 0.

THIRD QUARTER
Davidson goes back to original line-up. Homewood back at guard for A. & M. Flowers kicks to Pierson on 10-yard
line, the latter returning 15. Van Brocklin hurt on this play, but remains in game. A. & M. makes first
down on line bucks by Baughan and Pierson. Rice, McDougall and Pierson try end runs, but fail to gain. McDougall
kicks 30 yards, Keesler returning 2. Black skirts end for 6 yards. Keesler fails to gain. Flowers gets off another
50-yard punt to Rice, who is downed in his tracks on 28-yard line. Baughan makes 3 yards thru tackle, but
A. & M. penalized 15 yards for holding. Baughan gains 4. Pierson on fake kick formation is thrown on 6-yard
line by C. Walker. Rice punts 35 yards, Keesler returning 17. D. C.’s ball on A. & M.'s 18-yard line.
Burns goes thru center for 2 yards and Black skirts end for 5. Keesler bucks thru left tackle for 12
yards and first down. Ball on A. & M.'s 9-yard line. Shaw hurt and Elliott is sent in. Here long
discussion as to Elliott's not reporting to referee, which results in 15-yard penalty for Davidson. Keesler gains 3 yards thru
center. Finley goes in for T. White. C. Walker gains 7 yards thru tackle. Burns repeats the gain thru guard.
Black crashes through for touchdown. Keesler holds ball for Grey, who kicks easy goal. Chaffin goes in for Lawrence and
McMurray for Van Brocklin. Lee kicks to C. Walker on 9-yard line, who returns 18 yards. Black goes thru left
tackle for 8 yards. Keesler thrown for loss by Cooke. Flowers punts 50 yards to Rice, but Davidson is penalized
half distance of field for White's interfering with Rice before he touched ball. Van Brocklin goes back in game.For McMurray.
Van Brocklin makes a fumble, which is recovered by Burns.

FOURTH QUARTER
C. Walker gains 8 yards. Burns is thrown behind the line by Homewood, but A. & M. is penalized 15
yards for slugging. D. C.'s ball on A. & M.'s 30-yard line. Keesler makes a run of 20 yards on
a fake. C. Walker goes through tackle for 3 yards. Nance goes in for Homewood. Black gains 10 yards on
a right end run. Burns bucks the line for a touchdown. Grey fails to kick the goal. Flowers kicks to
Van Brocklin on the 7-yard line, the latter returning 23 yards. McDougall gains 3 yards through guard. Van Brocklin gains
2 through tackle. Rice kicks 30 yards to Black, who is downed in his tracks. Crouch goes in for Black.
Crouch fails to gain on an end run. Flowers kicks 60 yards to Rice, who is downed in his tracks.
McGinn goes in for Forward pass fails. Rice gains 5 yards but on the next play is thrown for a
loss. Rice kicks 40 yards to Burns. Spahn substituted for Keesler and fails to gain on an end run. Spahn
runs around the left end for 30 yards. Crouch gains through right tackle. Spahn gains 5 through the opposite tackle.
Mackorell goes in for Burns. Crouch goes around the right end for 10 yards and a first down. Ball on
A. & M.'s 25-yard line. Game ends. Score: D. C., 16; A. & M., 0.

The following is the line-up:

A. & M. POSITION DAVIDSON
Hodgin .................. Walker, R. left end
Lawrence ............... Shaw left tackle
Kirkpatrick ............. Grey left guard
Lee ..................... White (Capt.) center
Homewood .............. Sayad right guard
Cooke ................... White right tackle
Seifert ................. Flowers right end
Rice .................... Keesler quarterback
Van Brocklin ........... Black left half
Pierson ................ Walker, C. right half
McDougall (Capt.) ...... Burns fullback

Time of periods: 15, 15, 12, 12.
Officials: Referee, Ritch, Georgetown and N. C.; Umpire, Etheridge, V. M. I.; Head lineman, Long, N. C.

HOW THE TEAMS COMPARED
Davidson. A. & M.
250 Yards gained in scrimmage 61
14 First downs made 3
1 in 3 Forward passes completed 1 in 4
3 Yards gained by forward passes lost 5
116 Yards gained running back punts 10
70 Yards penalties inflicted 50
48 Average No. yards on punts 30
1 Recovered fumbles 2
1 in 3 Successful dropkicks 0 in 0

THE TECH GAME
Encouraged by the well-earned victory over A. & M., the Davidson squad is practicing hard this week in preparation for
the Georgia-Tech game Saturday. This will probably be the strongest team the Red and Black squad will go up against
this year, and they hope to make an especially creditable showing. The squad, which will probably be composed of more
men than took the Virginia trip, will leave Friday night for Atlanta.

COMPARATIVE SCORES OF SATURDAY’S GAMES
Princeton, 29; Carolina, 0.
Georgia Tech, 222; Cumberland, 0.
Georgia, 26; Clemson, 0.

We are always glad to serve you. Drink at Our Fountain. Prescriptions compounded with the best drugs by a registered
pharmacist. WE Appreciate YOUR Patronage.

WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Notice Alumni!
Are You A Subscriber to The Davidsonian?
If Not, WHY NOT?
Every loyal alumnus should keep in touch with the College and its activities, and the only way to do this
is through the pages of The DAVIDSONIAN. Are You A Loyal Alumnus? If so, send in your name and address,
with your dollar, at once, so as not to miss a single copy.

Come to Our Fountain For Your Drinks
Tobacco
Cigars
Cigarettes
And Everything in DRUGS and STATIONERY

Jetton Drug Co.
United Motor Lines Hotel
Regular Lines
Central Between Charlotte and Statesville
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
We cater to special trips for students
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN
Frank P. Morton, Manager
L.B. Patterson, College Representative
