The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 22, 1916. No. 11

Class Basketball Drawing to a Close
Four More Games Are Played, With One Remaining.

SOPH-JUNIOR.
In a fast, but very rough game, the Sophs defeated the Juniors last Tuesday by the score of 18 to 16. For the Sophs, Andrews and Potts starred, while Hawkins played the best game for the Juniors. The line-up was as follows:

Sophs. Position. Juniors.
McAskill .......... Finley Center
Alexander .......... Hawkins Right Forward
Hall .......... Sprunt Left Forward
Andrews .......... Sherrill Right Forward
Potts .......... Mountcastle Left Forward

SENIOR-FRESH.
In a hard-fought game last Thursday night the Seniors defeated the Fresh by the score of 17 to 7. Neither side played up to the standard in the first half, with roughness the outstanding feature. On account of the absence of two of the Seniors’ best men, Price and Henderson, the Fresh had all the better of it with the score 3 to 0 when the whistle blew for the first half. But the Seniors forged ahead in the second half and by their fast work in the last few minutes won the game. Price and Murray starred for the Seniors, while McClerkin and Hall were responsible for the scores of the Fresh. The line-up was as follows:

Seniors. Position. Fresh.
Young .......... Brown Right Guard
Craig .......... McClerkin Left Guard
Mann .......... Hall Center
Murray .......... Brinkley Right Forward
Keesler .......... Chalmers Left Forward

Time 40 minutes. Referees, Hengeveld and Childs.

SENIOR-JUNIOR.
Friday night the Juniors met defeat at the hands of the fast Senior team, the final score being 19 to 14. Both teams played fine ball. During the first half of the game the Juniors seemed to have most advantages, but after the rest between the halves the Seniors came back with a rush. By good team work they overcame the Juniors’ lead and emerged victors. The floor work of Sprunt and Mountcastle for the Juniors was one of the game's features, while the goal shooting of Hawkins for the same team was great. For the Seniors the work of Murray and Young showed up best, although Price played his usually steady game. The line-up was as follows:

Seniors. Position. Juniors.
Young .......... Sprunt
Price .......... Hawkins Forwards
Henderson .......... Finley Center
Keesler .......... Mountcastle
Murray .......... Sherrill Guards

Time, 20-20. Referee, Wood.

(Continued on page 6)

Students to Raise Sum
(Lecture to be Given For War Prisoners Tomorrow Afternoon
Davidson to Have Share In Relief Y.M.C.A. Secures Well Known Work Among Prison Camps.

Mr. W. H. Morgan, Traveling Secretary of the International Committee of the Y.M.C.A., was here Thursday night and Friday in the interests of the nation-wide campaign now being conducted in the schools and colleges of the country for the purpose of raising a relief fund for the students and professors in the prison camps of Europe. At a meeting of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet on Thursday night, Mr. Morgan discussed the plans for raising the sum necessary for the proposed work, and also outlined the conditions now existing among the prisoners of the nations at war. At this meeting the members of the cabinet pledged the sum of $67.50 as the basis of the fund to be raised among the Davidson students.

Instead of holding the regular chapel exercises on Friday morning, Dr. McConnell turned over the time to Mr. Morgan, in order that he might outline the situation to the Student Body as a whole. He summarized existing conditions in the camps thus: There is a shortage of rations, and those available are in many cases unpalatable; because of the crowded conditions, cleanliness has almost become unknown; the forced inactivity, loneliness and despair of the confined men is having a terrible effect on the men and many of them are going insane through melancholy and brooding. An outline of the work being done by the Y.M.C.A. workers in the camps was given, the Y.M.C.A. “huts,” the work of the secretaries, the religious meetings, the medical work, and the distribution of literature, being described. In closing, Mr. Morgan told of the sacrifices which have, in numbers of instances, been made by college men of this country in order to assist in sending aid to these workers and to provide for the necessities which will be required for the coming winter. An appeal was then made for the men of Davidson to respond to the call and in the spirit of sacrifice to forego some of the pleasures which they had planned for the year and devote the funds to the cause of relief.

On Friday night a mass meeting of the cabinet and their committees was held, in which $78.50 was pledged and the plans made for a canvass of the Student Body, which was made that night. Reports from this canvass have not all come in yet, but a considerable sum has been promised, although the amount has not yet reached the $1,000.00 which was set by the committee as the contribution which they felt Davidson ought to make to this fund.

NEW BOOKSFOR LIBRARY. The Library has been presented with the following books on Labor Problems: "Land Questions," "Social Problems," "A Perplexed Philosopher," "Progress and Poverty," all by Henry George; "The Tariff," by Lee Francis Lybarger; "Natural Taxation," by Sherman; "Problem of the Unemployed," Anonymous, and also about one hundred pamphlets on "Taxation."

Speaker For Two Addresses. Tomorrow afternoon at 4 o'clock, in Shearer Hall, Dr. Seerly, of Springfield, Mass., will give a lecture before the Student Body on the subject of "Sex Hygiene and Education." He will also speak again at night at 7 o'clock, at the regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. and his lecture at this time will be along the same line. Dr. Seerly is a noted lecturer and a man who has accomplished a great deal in his field. He is sent out by the International Committee of the Y. M. C. A., to lecture to the college men of the South, and is now on a tour of these institutions, coming here from the colleges of Georgia and South Carolina.

THE LAST TWO GAMES. The game with Wofford tomorrow should easily add another to Davidson's victory column. Wofford has a scrappy team, but lacks the experience and weight necessary to cope with a big team. Interest is centered chiefly now on the Clemson game on Thanksgiving, at Charlotte. The last two games played between these two teams resulted in tie scores, and this year Davidson should be able to get the better of their heavier rivals and make the victory clean-cut and decisive. Clemson has by no means a weak team, but as evidenced by the games already played this year, the Red and Black squad has equaled the best and vanquished all others. Clemson held Citadel to a close score, 3-0, but that is no reason why Davidson should not score a more decisive victory. At all odds, it will be a hard-fought battle and every student should be at Charlotte Thanksgiving, no matter what happens.

A HOLIDAY TRIP TO CUBA BEING PLANNED Dr. T. W. Lingle is making plans to conduct a party on a holiday trip to Cuba, December 20th to January 3rd. Among the places to be visited are Jacksonville, St. Augustine, Orlando, Daytona, and Miami, and nine days will be spent in Cuba. Mission stations, coffee and sugar plantations, and other places of interest will be visited in excursions from Havana. Altogether the trip should be a very instructive and enjoyable one for any student or alumnus to take, as Florida and the West Indies are most interesting sections. Dr. Lingle has had considerable experience in leading tourist parties, having taken several over different parts of Europe. Anyone interested in taking this trip to Cuba during the holidays is asked to communicate with him.

A NEW BOARDING HOUSE. Mr. L. A. Elliot has practically made arrangements for opening a $15 a month boarding house on December 1st, in the house just above the Henderson Hotel. A Mrs. Harris and daughter have been secured to give their entire time to the work, and E. P. Childs has been named as manager.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town Social and Personal Items About the Town People. Miss Eloise Martin has returned from the hospital at Salisbury. * * Miss Mary Lafferty has gone to Charlotte to visit relatives. She expects to return in two weeks. * * Mr. R. F. Andrews, formerly agent for the Southern Railway at this place, has accepted a position with Armour Bros. & Thompson. * * Mrs. Avery Hobbs continues to improve. * * Mrs. T. W. Lingle has returned from Morganton, where she attended the meeting of the Federation of Women’s Clubs. Rev. Aver Abernathy, of Sparta, N. C., is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay, on Concord Street. He conducted services in the Methodist church Sunday night. * * Dr. Thos. W. Lingle attended the funeral exercises Sunday of Mr. Patterson, a relative of Dr. Lingle’s, in Rowan County. * * K. F. Herman, ’20, will attend the last Quarterly Conference of the M. E. Church at Gastonia the latter part of this week. He enters Conference for foreign mission service in South America. Miss Mary Price, of Queens College, was in town Monday for a few hours. Miss Linton, of Athens, Ga., spent the week-end with Miss Hattie Thompson. * * Dr. Edward McConnell, of Gastonia, has been visiting his brothers, Drs. J. W. and J. M. McConnell. * * Miss Elise Amis, of Batesville, Ark., has been the guest of her aunt, Mrs. Reid, for some weeks. * * The Young Woman's Missionary Society will give a Japanese pageant Wednesday night, November 29th, in Shearer Hall. A fuller notice will appear later.

MR. J. H. MILLING. The sympathy of the Student Body goes out to J. W. Milling, ’20, in the tragic death of his father, Mr. J. H. Milling, of Rock Hill, S.C. Mr. Milling was struck by a Southern Railway train one mile south of Rock Hill on the night of November 14th. He had just been out to his farm and was hurrying back to the city in his automobile, and did not see or hear the approach of the oncoming train until the locomotive was almost upon him. His machine was crushed into kindling wood, and death was instantaneous. Mr. Milling was about fifty years old, and was a leading wholesale grocer and farmer.