Literary Societies SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, October 28th: Resolved, ‘That the President of the United States should be elected for a term of six years and be ineligible for re-election.

Eumenean — Affirmative: Brown, Burns, Carwyle, Morton. Negative: Chambliss, Cousar, McCloy, Craig.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Peters, F.P. Hall, Sisks, Williamson, Dawkins, Kerr. Negative: Webber, Davis, McBride, Maddrey, L.G. Calhoun, Smith.

Declamations and Orations, October 30th:

Eumenean — Declamation: Cunningham, Flynn, Harwood. Oration: Eikel, Frierson, Fraser, Hamilton, Hobson.

Philanthropic — Declamations: Mountcastle, Howell, Carriker, McAlister, Caldwell, Hunter, R.M. Calhoun, Menzies, Brown. Orations: Fowle, Rankin, Nisbet.

WEEKLY MEETINGS

In the Phi Society, on Saturday night, October 21st, the regular weekly debate was held, the subject being, “Resolved, that the Federal Government should own and operate all railways doing an interstate business.” The affirmative was upheld by Messrs. Bullock, Query, Fleming, Roberts, and Paisley. The affirmative presented some very good points, showing how the change would benefit the nation and how it could easily be accomplished. The negative, upheld by Cumming, McDonald, C.W. Worth, and Foscue, proved among other things that a change was unnecessary and that the railways would be expensive and inefficient in the hands of the Government. The committee decided in favor of the negative, as also did the house.

In the Eumenean Society Saturday night quite a good meeting was held. In the absence of the president, the vice-president, J.R. Woods, took the chair. G.C. Crouch was elected a member of the society and his initiation took place with due formality Monday morning. The debate was, as the Reviewer said, “lacking in pep,” but several speeches were good and good points were brought out. The affirmative was upheld by Messrs. Bachman, F.M. Mitchell, and Bellingrath, and the negative by Messrs. Brand, Boggs, and Hamilton. There were two short speeches from the house. Both the judges and the house voted in favor of the affirmative.

At the Monday morning meeting, the second term officers were elected: E.H. Hamilton, president (by acclamation); G.C. Bellingrath, vice-president; K.A. Woods, secretary; J.K. Hobson, reviewer.

ELECTION OF MARSHALS

The regular exercises were suspended in the two societies Monday morning, and marshals were elected for this year. To the Eumenean Society fell the choice of chief marshal, and W.Y. Sayad was elected to this position. The other marshals elected in the Eu. were: C.R. Jenkins, J.R. Morton, B.D. Roddey, and S.R. Keesler, while in the Phi., W.H. Neal, J.C. Paisley, R.H. Stone, and O.C. Williamson were chosen.

At the meeting of the local Polity Club on last Friday night, the chief ideas in Norman Angell’s book, “The Dangers of Half-Preparedness” were discussed by R.H. Ratchford. The central thought of the book was that a nation, although it had a strong army and navy, was only half-prepared unless it also had a definite, formulated foreign policy.

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 25, 1916

FACULTY MEMBERS RECEIVE MENTION

In the 1916 edition of “Who’s Who In America,” three members of the Faculty of Davidson College have received mention, these being Drs. Shearer, Martin, and Fulton. The following are extracts from the volume with reference to them:

William Joseph Martin: President of Davidson College; Davidson A.B. 1888; M.D. of Va. 1890; Ph.D. 1894; Postgraduate in Chemistry Johns Hopkins 1901-2; LL.D. Central University 1913; Wake Forest College 1913; Professor of Science, Presbyterian College 1888-9; Student in Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital 1890; Professor of Science at Davidson 1901; Proctor 1908-12; President of Davidson College 1912; Moderator of General Assembly, Presbyterian Church in U.S.; Beta Theta Pi; Phi Beta Kappa.

John Bunyan Shearer: A.B. Hampden-Sidney College 1851; A.M. U. of Va.; D.D., Hampden-Sidney; LL.D. Southwestern University; Professor of Bible, Southwestern University; President of Davidson College 1888-1908.

Maurice Garland Fulton: Ph.B. University of Mississippi, University of Michigan, 1901-3; Instructor Rhetoric University of Mississippi 1900-1; Assistant University of Michigan 1901-3; Professor of English in Central University; Professor English at Davidson since 1909; Member of Lecturer School of South; Delta Psi.

FRESHMAN LECTURE BY DR. SENTELLE

The regular semi-monthly lecture to Freshmen was given last Friday morning by Dr. Sentelle. In his subject, “Standards of a College Man,” he explained that the principal difficulty in college life is...that we are all in too big a crowd. He said that a man by himself was different from a man in a crowd. When a man gets in a crowd he loses his individual responsibility and the power of thinking for himself. He is carried forward by the crowd and not by any power of his own. He stated that if a man spent ten hours a day at his work, every student should put at least ten hours a day on his studies, which are preparing him for his life work. If we are to sharpen our intellects, we will have to grind, and grind hard, otherwise our minds will deteriorate instead of broaden while in college. He emphasized the fact that every student should be courteous, not only to his fellow students, but to any visitor or stranger that he might see on the campus. And when a visiting team comes to the campus to play, treat them as honored guests, giving them everything but the game. Be so courteous to them that when they leave they can say nothing but good things about Davidson, and will be only too glad to return at the first opportunity.

DEMOCRATIC CLUB BUSY.

The local Wilson-Bickett Democratic Club has received several copies of the State Democratic Handbook and other pamphlets, and they may be found in the library and social center, and may also be obtained from S. T. Henderson, president of the club. Saturday, October 28th, is Wilson Day throughout the country, and the local club will endeavor to have a well-known political speaker to make an address here that night. In addition to this speech, Hon. R. M. Gantt, of Durham, will probably address the club before election day, November 7th.

IN “WHO'S WHO"

MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES

Refinement and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found in the home where there is The Stieff Piano. Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan.

FELLOWS DO YOU EVER STOP TO READ THE ADS IN THIS PAPER? They make the paper possible and in turn should receive your careful attention.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
219 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS, Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

FOR THAT FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Brown's
Something good to eat all the time

NOW FOR FOOTBALL

Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. J-5? This is the one used in every big college game, because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint.

17 South Tryon

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with cashier of Bank
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

On last Thursday night the meeting of the Y. M. C. A. was in charge of G. C. Bellingrath, who conducted the devotional exercises, and then turned the meeting over to the three men who were the speakers for the occasion. These were R. H. Bennett, W. C. Frierson, and D. R. Pool, who during the past summer did mission work among the people of Letcher County, in the mountains of Kentucky. The first speaker was Frierson, who discussed the conditions existing in this section, and showed the need of work among them.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

For information, address:
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

Next, Bennett pictured in an interesting way the people themselves, showing that though they are backward according to modern standards, they have many fine traits of character. He stated that under trained leadership they could be wonderfully developed. Pool then took up an account of his own personal work among these people, showing the extensive possibilities of the work and making a plea for workers to go among these people who are so anxious to learn.

FOR THAT FORD TRIP
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION

"It never hurts truth to be lied about."