4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 29, 1916

Literary Societies SCHEDULE.

Owing to Senior Speaking and examinations, there will be no more meetings of the literary societies until after Christmas.

WEEKLY MEETINGS.

In the Philanthropic Society Saturday night, those upholding the affirmative side of the question: “Resolved, That the President of the
United States should be elected by the direct vote of the people and not through the Electoral College,” were: Howell,
Carriker, Spence, and Cumming. They maintained that the present system is unfair in that it does not represent the direct
vote of the people. Those arguing for the Negative were: Nisbet, Calhoun, Menzies, and Finley. They argued that the change
would be detrimental rather than beneficial. The committee decided in favor of the affirmative, while the house voted for the
negative.

On Monday morning, those giving Declamations were: Dunlap, “Commerce,” by Henry van Dyke; Caldwell, “I Still Live;” Brown, “The Voyage
of Columbus;” E. G. Lilly, “The Laying of the Cornerstone of the Washington Monument in 1848.” Those giving orations were:
Murray, “Government Ownership of Railroads;” McKeithan, “The Modern Newspaper;” Grey, “Cotton Manufacturing;” Nisbet, “Real Play.” At the conclusion of the
regular exercises, the inauguration of new officers took place, and reports for the first term were given.

On Saturday night, the question: “Resolved, That the President of the United States should be elected by popular vote rather
than by the Electoral College,” was upheld on the affirmative side by Frierson, Roddey, Cunningham, and Fraser, and on the
negative by Solomons, Eikel, Flynn, and Potts. The arguments advanced by the affirmative side were: (1) The electoral college is
undemocratic; (2) it makes the individual undervalue the importance of his vote; (3) in the electoral college, many States have
lost their votes; (4) it permits the election of a President even though he receives a plurality of the popular
votes. The negative advanced such arguments as these: (1) The whole country is not educated to this great change; (2)
by the proposed method, an encroachment would be made upon State rights; (3) there would be a greater amount of
corrupt politics in the proposed system; (4) the small States would have less power in electing the President.

On Monday morning, the following gave declamations: P. B. Carwile, on “Attending a Church Service;” C. J. Hollandsworth, on “The
Black Horse and His Rider;” W. J. Honeycutt, on “The Mission of the Anglo-Saxon.” The orations were: A. R. Craig,
on “War as the Cause of High Prices;” L. M. Thomas, on “A Rapid Summary of the Recent Presidential Election;”
P. B. Price, on “The Blessings of the Present European War;” and R. W. Cousar, on “Optimism and Pessimism.”

Red Cross Christmas Seals will be sold in the town this year. They are sold to help stamp out tuberculosis.
One-third of the money realized will go to the National Red Cross Society. The other two-thirds will be used for
needy consumptives in the community. It is hoped that many will buy these seals and in this way aid in
the fight against tuberculosis.

THE BEST DIPLOMA.

MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES — Refinement and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter
are found in the home where there is The Stieff Piano. Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan.

Stieff Charlotte, N. C.

The TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Society Brand Clothes Knapp-Felt Hats HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

FREE By Rev. Madison C. Peters.

Recently one of our papers ran this advertisement: “Wanted — Work at anything by a man of 27; speaking seven
languages.” If this young man had had the courage to be ignorant of many things he would have avoided the
calamity of being ignorant.of all things. It is not how much college you have gone through as how much of
the college has gone through you that the business world wants to know. The best diploma is the book of
acts. The world always makes room for the man who can bring things to pass. Our country is full of
persons who can do many things fairly, but do not know how to do one thing supremely well. The best
workers in many lines are foreigners who, in the Old World, devoted the early part of their lives to learning
a trade or profession, and brought their superior workmanship with them; hence we seldom find such foreigners looking for a
job. The day of universal knowledge is past. The true measure of a successful man’s learning today is the number
of studies which he elects to let alone. Broad culture may be beautiful and many-sidedness admirable, but it is always
the men with single aims and intense purpose, who concentrate their power, who are in demand when anything worth while
is to be done. It is not the diffused electricity, but the concentrated thunderbolt terrible in its power. He who
knows everything is always looking for something. The specialist does not have to look for a job; the job is
looking for him. To succeed you must be unanimous with yourself. Agassiz was asked his opinion touching the chemical analysis
of a plant. He answered: “I know nothing about chemistry.” He was a naturalist. Even specialists have their specialty.

NOW FOR FOOTBALL

Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. 5-5? This is the one used in every big college game,
because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint. Something good to eat all the time. Only sophomores are
omniscient. The man who runs on side lines, un- Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player.
Write for Catalogue A. G. SPALDING & BROS. To keep a gun from scattering put in Good Coal. The successful
worker today is he who singles out from a vast number of possible employments some specialty and Reasonable Prices. 74
N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA. to that devotes himself thoroughly. Leave orders with - This is a poor country for
the average cashier of Bank —— man and worse still for the untrained man or the miscellaneous genius. Everything is
crowded—downstairs! The men who get to the top over the heads of a hundred others are not always the men
of conspicuous ability, but availability. The man who knows how to take hold of things by their handles has the
call. Young’s phrase, “Time elaborately thrown away,” applies to the man who attempts to know or do everything. There is
a busyness which is not business. It is seldom that the most brilliant achieve the highest success. The Union Theological
Seminary RICHMOND, VA. C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C. For information, address: W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal Quality Counts That's
why we have stuck to our policy of making only the best. The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St Philadelphia. Persistency is more effective than brilliancy. The men at the summit were not shot up in
an elevator; they climbed there. Men are not pulled into positions; they help themselves. No matter what you undertake, don’t
leave it until you can reach your arms on the other side. As Dickens’ friend would have us understand, the
only “good time coming” you are sure of is the one you make for yourself.—Ex.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION
