LITERARY SOCIETIES. Debate, Saturday night, September 20th: “Resolved, That the eight-hour day should be taken as the basis for computing
the wages of railway employees.” Eumenean—Affirmative: C. B. Robson, Beall, Bennett, Boggs. Negative: G. Robson, A. Brown, Fraser, Good. Philanthropic—Affirmative:
W. C. Worth, Andrews, Campbell, Horner, Hamilton, Freeman. Negative: Faires, Currie, Foreman, Spratt, Davenport, Freeman. Declamations and Orations, October 2nd.
Eumenean—Declamations: Honneycutt, Matthews, Miller, Potts. Orations: Humphrey, Jenkins, Johnson, F. M. Mitchell. Philanthropic—Declamations: Peters, F. P. Hall, Siske, Dawkins, Kerr,
Maddrey, L. G. Calhoun, Smith. Orations: Williamson, Webber, Davis, McBride. Eumenean Freshman Society, Monday night, October 2nd—Debate—Affirmative: J. G. Richards,
R. R. Craig. Negative: G. W. Harris, L. S. Burgess. Declamations: R. G. Shields, N. S. Richards.

WEEKLY MEETINGS The Literary Societies held their first regular debate Saturday night. The question for discussion was: “Resolved, That the
United States should purchase the Danish West Indies.” In the Eumenean, the affirmative was upheld by G. C. Bellingrath, R.
W. Cousar, and Craig, and the negative by L. A. Chambliss, W. C. Freeman, and J. K. Hobson. In the
Philanthropic, Berryhill, G. F. Webber, and J. W. Bullock argued for the affirmative side of the question, and S. W.
Robinson, D. W. Chalmers, and T. A. Racy spoke for the negative. The affirmative side contended that these islands should
be purchased principally on account of their value as a naval base and coaling and supply station. They argued also
that we were compelled to buy in order to carry out the Monroe Doctrine and keep another nation from buying
them. The negative contended that from an economic standpoint the United States should not purchase these islands as their actual
industrial value is decreasing. They argued also that on account of the racial situation on these islands the United States
could not afford to own them. The point was also brought out that should the United States purchase them, she
could not take the leading role which she should take in the present world peace movement.

In the regular meeting of the Eumenean Society, Monday morning, P. B. Price gave an oration on the secret of
the popularity of James Whitcomb Riley’s poetry—it being his power to touch the hearts of others by his sympathetic nature.
D. M. Orgain spoke on “What We Owe Mexico,” and I. B. Woods discussed the recent railway strike. Those giving
declamations were Bland, “The Evacuation of the Indians;” E. A. Woods, a selection from “The Tale of Two Cities,” and
Cunningham. The Philanthropic Society had a very interesting and instructive program Monday morning. The Freshmen who took part were: D.
W. Roberts, whose subject was “Patriotism;” A. L. Foscue, who gave a declamation on “The American Merchant Marine.” The other
declamations were: C. W. Worth, “Fredericksburg,” and Fleming, “The Passing of the Indian.” The orations were delivered by W. C.
Cumming, who spoke on society work with special reference to the new men; T. M. Misenheimer delivered a good philosophical
talk on “Why.” J. W. Bullock and G. McDonald each discussed phases of the tobacco industry, its production and use.

“GENTLEMEN TAKE OFF THEIR HATS” About thirty years ago a young girl in a Western city was given charge of
a Sabbath school class of boys, usually known as the “river rats.” When she entered the room she found them
lounging on the desks and benches, wearing their hats, and a defiant leer on every face. They greeted her with
a laugh, and one of them exclaimed: “Well, sis, you going to teach us?” She stood silent until the laugh
was over, and then said quietly: “Do I look like a lady?” An astonished stare was the only reply which
they gave. “Because,” she continued gently, “gentlemen, when a lady enters the room, take off their hats.” The lowest American
secretly believes himself to be a gentleman, and in a moment every hat was off, and the lads were ranged
in orderly attention. So remarkable was the success of this girl in managing and influencing men of the roughest sort
that she made it the work of her life. She established clean and respectable boarding houses for sailors and boatmen,
and reading and coffee rooms for laborers, and founded an Order of Honor, the members of which strove to live
sober, Christian lives themselves and to help their fellows to do the same. Some of the members of her first
class were efficient helpers for twenty years in all her work. It was a favorite saying with them: “Once let
Miss Smith get hold of a man, and she never lets him go.” She never did let go, but followed
him to sea, to the most distant parts of the world, or even to prison, with letters and little gifts.
With all the tender pity of a mother she strove as many a mother does not strive to bring the
wanderer back to the faith and innocence of his childhood. Thousands of men passed under this single woman's influence and
learned something of her Master through her wonderful purity and strong faith in Him.—Ex.

A CLUB FOR THE OLD. Of forming many clubs there is no end, and one of the latest is unique.
A women’s club which admits no members under 60 has been started in New York City, and already has 130
members.Among them are musicians, artists, inventors, industrial craftswomen, cooks, and housekeepers. The club aims to find ways and means for
giving old people new interest in life and adding to their happiness in every possible way; to find opportunities for
them in the outside world for usefulness and for the application of such natural talent, ability, and experience as they
may possess. "Old people who may not be capable of contributing anything at all to the movement may be made
happy by association and social gatherings, so that there need be no more 'lonely' old people," says Mrs. C. A.
Rugg, the founder. "And those who are entirely friendless and homeless will be enabled to find a place to call
their own, where shelter and food may be provided at small cost. They will be made independent, too, by having
means to pay for it put into their own hands, earned through their own efforts." The idea seems to be
an admirable one. A lonely old age is one of the most pitiable conditions of life. The secret of avoiding
this fate is "to find ways and means for giving old people new interest in life." There are new interests
for this time of life and one does not have to organize or join a club to find them, though
such a club may be a help to some. The best club of this kind is the Christian church which
has a horizon as wide as the world and is ever full of new and interesting things. "They that be
planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bring forth
fruit in old age: they shall be fat and flourishing." — Banner.

FRANKLIN'S IDEA.

A year ago, when the hyphenated St. Louis concern which brews so much false advertising was touting Benjamin Franklin as
an exemplary consumer of beer, we ventured to publish a page from his autobiography which told of his total-abstinence principles
based on economic and physical reasons. Recently another writer, commenting upon the extent to which certain great industrial corporations are
carrying their fight against liquor, again summoned Franklin to observe the application of his ideas. Here, for instance, is the
notice posted throughout the Joliet Works of the Illinois Steel Company:

NOTICE
To the employees of the Joliet Works, Illinois Steel Company.
For the promotion of safety and welfare, it is hoped that all employees will avoid the use of intoxicating liquors.
Under the rules of the Joliet Works, any employee who uses intoxicating liquor while on duty will be discharged.
In making promotions in any department of the plant, superintendents of departments and foremen will select for promotion only those
who do not use intoxicating liquors.

At the plant of the same company at Gary, Ind., a flaming electric sign at the gate burns these uncomfortable
questions into every man’s mind:
Did booze ever do you any good?
Did booze ever get you a better job?
Did booze ever contribute anything to the happiness of your family?

Franklin the printer might have queried the word “booze,” but when that was explained to his satisfaction, he would certainly
have set his “O.K.” upon the intimations of the illuminated and illuminating questions. — N. Y. Advocate.

NO DIVIDED SERVICE.

The weekly lesson in Sunday school dealt with the corrupting influence of luxury and worldliness, and the golden text was
a well-known sentence that the superintendent wished all the children to remember. It sounded like an easy text to learn
and the superintendent, mounting the platform for a final review of the lesson when the school assembled for closing exercises,
was sure of a pleasing response from his pupils.

“Who,” he began, “can repeat the golden text?”

A score of hands were raised, and the superintendent chose a little girl with blue eyes, a well-bred, well-behaved little
girl from a well-to-do and particular family, to repeat the text for him.

“Well, Dorothy,” he said, “you may tell it to us. Stand up, so we can all hear you.”

Dorothy stood up in the prettiness of her best dress and the daintiness of her hair ribbons. “You cannot,” she
said distinctly—“you cannot serve God and mamma.” — Western Christian Advocate.

There is no better means of progress in the spiritual life than to be continually beginning afresh. — St. Francis
de Sales.

REAL CONTENTMENT is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not
sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

Is prepared to do all kinds of printing for college men. Prompt delivery a specialty.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Glibert & Patterson Agents
Statesville, N.C.

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK Give Us a Trial

Rutledge Norton
Next Door to Post Office

Let no man suppose that progress can be divorced from religion, or that there is any other platform for the
ministers of reform than the platform written in the utterances of our Lord and Saviour. — Woodrow Wilson.
