4 Literary Societies SCHEDULE. Debate, Saturday night, November 25th: Resolved, ‘That the electoral vote of every State should be divided among the several parties in proportion to the popular vote. Philanthropic—Affirmative: Fowle, Howell, Mountcastle, Corriher, J. W. McAlister, Caldwell. Negative: Rankin, Hunter, Nisbet, Calhoun, Menzies, Brown. Eumenean—Affirmative: Cunningham, Fraser, Frierson. Negative: Solomons, Eikel, Flynn. Declamations and Orations, Monday, November 27th: Philanthropic—Declamations: Dunlap, Kornegay, Boney, Spence, Alexander, L. L. McAlister, E. G. Lilly. Orations: Clark, Grey, Richardson, McKeithan, W. H. Neal, Ratchford. Eumenean—Declamations: Carwile, Hollandsworth, Honeycutt. Orations: Boggs, Thomas, Cousar, Craig, Hudson, Humphrey. Eumenean Freshman Society, November 27th—Debate—Affirmative: Craig, Love, Price. Negative: Grey, McClerkin, Brown. Declamations: King, Penick, Liston, J. G. Richards. WEEKLY MEETINGS. In the Philanthropic Society Saturday night the question, “Resolved, That Capital Punishment Should be Abolished,” was upheld on the Affirmative by W. C. Worth, Campbell, Hamilton, Freeman, and Reese, and on the Negative by Currie, W. C. Neel, R. W. Robinson, Tremain, and Fowle. The Affirmative brought out the following points: The abolition of capital punishment is humane and consistent with an advanced civilization; that there would be no extermination of the race; that society is protected by the imprisonment of the law-breaker, and the prisoner is given an opportunity to reform; that it has been tried and found to be a success; that the survival of the old custom is inexpedient, wrong, and unnecessary. The principle being wrong in that the State should respect life, and that the idea is not in accord with true conceptions of punishment. The Negative based their argument on these issues: That the custom was a Divine decree and has been found efficient in former times; that the punishment is necessary because by it law is maintained; that the percentage of murders is curtailed; that society is rid of a dangerous element and any change would result in the people taking the law into their own hands, and that this change would remove the fear of death which is so strong in the minds of the criminal class. The law is just because it results in a higher value being placed on human life in general; in giving proper retribution to the criminal, and in lessening the opportunities for mob violence. Finally, when strictly and rigorously upheld, the law is entirely satisfactory, as the case of England with its low percentage of murders will show, when compared with conditions in the United States. The decisions of the judges and of the house was in favor of the Negative. The regular order of exercises was suspended Monday morning on account of the election of officers. The results were: President, R. H. Ratchford; Vice-President, Woodrow Clark; Secretary, J. T. Maddrey; First Supervisor, C. W. Worth; Second Supervisor, W. M. Currie; First Critic, W. H. Neal; Second Critic, W. C. Cumming. In the Eumenean Society last Saturday night the question was upheld on the Affirmative by A. P. Saunders, L. M. Thomas, and J. B. Woods, and on the Negative by P. B. Price, H. B. Fraser, and R. Woods. MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES REFINEMENT and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found in the home where there is The Stieff Piano. Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan. Stieff Charlotte, N. C. The TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Society Brand Clothes Knapp-Felt Hatsof their families, and (4) because mob law is less where capital punishment has been abolished; and, that the movement to abolish capital punishment has spread in Europe and in some of the States of the United States and that statistics show the number of crimes to have decreased. In beginning their argument the Negative laid the burden of the proof on the Affirmative that the abolition of capital punishment would make crimes less. They then argued that the abolition of capital punishment would tend to diminish the criminal’s regard for committing crimes since the penalty has been lightened; that capital punishment sets an example to other criminals; that it carries out the law of “Life for Life;” that the idea should be justice—not brotherly love; that more murders are committed in the United States than in any one of five European countries, and that only 3 percent of these are punished with death; that it is necessary for the good of social life. The judges and the house decided in favor of the Affirmative.

In the Eumenean Society Monday morning, Declamations were given by C. F. Allen, Solomons, Burns, and L. C. Brand. Andrew Brown delivered an oration on “Why We Should Prepare for War.”

TRIP TO CHARLOTTE

Purchase your Clothes at the Economy Shop and receive 5% in cash for purchase coupons. See Misenheimer. Stetson Hats, Kuppenheimer Clothes, Bannister Shoes.

NOW FOR FOOTBALL

Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. 5-5? This is the one used in every big college game because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint.

ESSAY CONTEST OPEN TO MINISTERIAL STUDENTS

An opportunity of winning $50 first prize or $25 second prize is open to every ministerial candidate of Davidson. The rewards will be offered for the best articles on: “The Principles of Christian Stewardship.” R. L. Walkup, chairman of the Christian Stewardship Committee, writes: “We hope Davidson will show up well both as to the number entering the contest and the character of the work done. We thought first of assigning subjects, but few men can fight well with Saul’s armor, so we have given each contestant the utmost liberty as to the phase of Christian Stewardship on which he writes.” There is no reason why two Davidson candidates for the ministry should not carry off both of these inviting prizes. Further information regarding the contest and cards of enrollment can be secured from E. H. Hamilton, No. 12 Rumple.

Good Coal, Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank.

Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue. A. G. SPALDING & BROS. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

Quality Counts. That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the best athletic supplies for all these years.

BOY SCOUT ACTIVITIES

The members of the local troop of Boy Scouts, led by several of the college students, went on a hike Saturday afternoon, going out about five miles and returning. While on the hike, the boys held a meeting around their campfire, and an interesting afternoon was spent. The boys now have regular headquarters in the rooms of the Civic League, the ladies of that organization having kindly granted permission for their use.

FORD TRIP MOORESVILLE

The Pioneers, a group of boys from nine to twelve years of age, started off well on Friday afternoon, the attendance at the meeting numbering fourteen.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION