The DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. IV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 18, 1916.

Red and Black Defeated by Strong Tech Eleven
Fighting Gamely, Opponents are Held to Low Score.

Facing a team which is admittedly one of the strongest in the South, and a team which outweighed them many pounds to the man, the plucky and efficient Red and Black warriors put up a great fight at Atlanta Saturday against Georgia Tech, and the latter team had to be content with a 9 to 0 victory. And this score tells but a small part of the story, for twice the Davidson team had the 2,000 Tech supporters trembling in fear of a score by the Red and Black. In the first instance, the ball was really carried over the goal by the Red and Black backs, but they were called back by the claim that one of the Davidson backs had started moving before the ball was snapped, and Davidson was penalized five yards. The second time that a score was imminent came in the second quarter, when Grey, standing on the 25-yard line, tried a drop kick which missed the bar by an almost imperceptible margin.

Not dismayed a whit by the record score which Georgia Tech had piled up against Cumberland University the preceding week, or by the fact that they were missing one or two regulars from the line-up, the Davidson team went into the game with a fighting spirit that never died. Time and again they checked the wonderful Tech offense and they clearly outplayed the Yellow Jackets in every department of the game in the first half. All through this period Coach Heisman's warriors were kept in fear and trembling for the safety of their own goal, and it was only through the interference of first mentioned Dame Fortune that Davidson was deterred from scoring twice. Only in the last half, when the difference in weight was beginning to tell and Strupper was playing such phenomenal football, that Tech was able to push across their lone touchdown. Tech was continually being strengthened by fresh men, while Davidson only made two substitutions during the entire game.

The Red and Black team played to the most advantage on defense, tackling low and sure, and fighting every inch of the way. The outstanding stars on the defensive for Davidson were Captain White and “Billy” Sayad, who formed a great combination, breaking up many of the advances by the dashing Tech back-field. “Sam” Keesler was again the most consistent ground gainer for the Red and Black, and his 35-yard run in the first quarter was one of the features of the game. Hugh Grey, who did the punting for Davidson, made a great part of the offensive gains. His punts were well placed and averaged over 40 yards, easily outclassing those of his opponent. The offensive playing of the Georgia Tech team was spectacular at times, with Strupper, Spence, and Senter the chief ground gainers. Strupper was in a class by himself, and it is pretty certain that the Tech team would not have scored if it had not been for his brilliant dashes. The heavy Tech line was al- (Continued on page 6)

On the other hand, it was. and Hawkins.

The annual Tennis Tournament was held last week, the finals being played Saturday afternoon before a large number of spectators. A. P. Saunders and T. W. Hawkins, both of the Junior class, were victors in the final contest, winning over W. F. Hall and T. H. Spence, both of '20, 7-5, 6-1, 2-6, 6-3. There were a large number of entrants in this annual event, and interest and enthusiasm were manifested throughout the tournament. The fine quality of play displayed by the contestants was much enjoyed by the onlookers, and prospects look bright for a successful year in inter-collegiate matches. These, however, have not yet been definitely secured, though M. S. Kennedy, manager of the tennis team, hopes to secure several.

Those entering the doubles in the tournament were Worth and Cunningham vs. Price and E. A. Woods; Askew and Craig vs. Keesler and Lily; Withers and McAskill vs. Saunders and Hawkins; Crawford and Roddey vs. Kennedy and Reed; Mitchell and Lott vs. Thomas and Flynn; Hall and Spence vs. Woods and Woods; Douglas and Faires vs. Jones and Inman. Those in the semi-finals were Price and Woods, who were defeated by Saunders and Hawkins, and Hall and Spence were the victors over Jones and Inman, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1.

The singles tournament is being held this week. Those entering for this event are as follows: Keesler, Shields, Worth, Jones, Mitchell, J. B. Woods, Kennedy, Withers, Crawford, E. Lilly, Price, Hawkins, Douglas, R. Howard, Reed, H. Lilly, Craig, J. R. Woods, Thomas, Cunningham, Hall, Saunders, Menzies, E. A. Woods, Lott, and Spence.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR MEETING SUNDAY

At the Christian Endeavor meeting on Sunday afternoon, the topic “Public Spirit” was discussed by E. B. Wright, the leader for this meeting. After this, the discussion was general by the members of the society. Public spirit, the various speakers sought to show, should be made a constructive and not a destructive force, and each citizen should use his best efforts to make it such.

of various songs.

It has been the source of much regret to Davidson men that there is no song that can strictly be called theDavidson College Song. The need of such a song was shown in Charlotte two weeks ago, when the line of two hundred and fifty marched into the Square, singing snatches. Everybody wanted to sing, but there was no common song. Of course, there are a few “Dear Alma Mater” songs that the Glee Club agonize creditably over, but what Davidson needs is a song something like the Yale “Bula” or the “Washington & Lee Swing,” a song that is full of spirit and pep, a song that stirs the blood. So the Commissary offers a Gold Medal Tennis Racket to the composer of the best “Davidson Song,” set to some common swinging air, or accompanied by notes. The decision will be left to the Blue Pencil Club. The contest will be held open till the 15th of November. Any student or alumnus is eligible to compete. The compositions may be sent to the Editor of The Davidsonian.

No. 6 Wilson-Bickett Club Holds First Meeting
Hon. Theodore F. Kluttz Speaker of the Evening.

It was with great interest and enjoyment that the students on Friday night heard a real plea from an old campaigner in behalf of Democracy. S. T. Henderson, president of the recently organized Wilson-Bickett Democratic club, introduced the speaker of the evening, Hon. Theodore F. Kluttz, of Salisbury. After a few introductory remarks, Mr. Kluttz began his speech by saying, “Some of you are too young to vote, but all are old enough to take an interest in the great national issues of the day.” In speaking of the Democratic party, he remarked: “It is the party that stands for the rights of the many against the oppression of the few.” “I would have you line yourselves up with it because it is the historical party, the party of Thomas Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson. It appeals to young men to give it their allegiance.”

Linked up with the strong appeal for the Democratic party, the speaker did not fail to pay a high tribute to Woodrow Wilson, its great leader. Among his many references to the President he said: “God sent Woodrow Wilson to Davidson, this genuine seat of genuine learning, to give him the groundwork in his education.” “I bring you the glad tidings that Woodrow Wilson is going to be re-elected for a second term, and that Davidson will not fail to have its representative in the Presidential chair.” A good-sized number heard the address, and much enthusiasm was shown by the numerous bursts of applause.

Class Basketball Opens With Two Games
Fresh Defeat Juniors, Seniors Win from Sophs.

FRESH-JUNIOR
At 4:30 Friday afternoon the first game of the class basketball series was called. This game was between the Fresh and Juniors, and was snappy and hotly contested throughout, the Fresh finally emerging from the fray as victors by the close score of 19 to 16. The first-year men showed up exceptionally well and for their first game exhibited remarkable teamwork. The last year champions seemed to have an off-day, but at times they showed last season form and then delighted the spectators with a bit of real basketball. The stars of the game are indeed hard to name. For the Freshmen, Hall and Monroe showed up best, while Childs and Therrell played the best game for the Juniors. The following is the lineup:

Fresh. Position. Juniors.
Werth .......... Mountcastle
McKlerkin ...... Therrell
Chalmers ....... Boggs
Hall ............ Sprunt
Monroe ......... Childs

Substitutions—For Juniors: Sprunt for Boggs, Hawkins for Sprunt. Time: 35 minutes. Referee: Reese.

SOPH-SENIOR
In the second game of the class basketball series played Monday afternoon, the Seniors defeated the Sophs by the close score of 27 to 24. The game was a hard-fought one throughout and it was hard to tell which team would win until the last two minutes of play. The individual stars for the Seniors were Henderson, Captain, Murray, and Young, while Alexander and Andrews played unusually well for the Sophs. The lineup was as follows:

Seniors. Position. Sophs.
Young .......... McAskill
Price ........... Davenport
Henderson ...... Potts
Murray ......... Andrews
Keesler ......... Alexander

SOCIAL CENTER REOPENED.
The Y. M. C. A. Social Center, which occupies the upper floor of the old gymnasium building, was opened to the students yesterday morning. In this room are a number of recent copies of up-to-date magazines for the benefit of those students who like to read. There is also a phonograph and records, and several games are to be secured in a few days. The doors are open to all students between the hours of 8 a.m. and 11 p.m. on all days except Saturday, and on that day it is open till 11:30 p.m.

PEACE CONTEST TO BE HELD IN DECEMBER
At a recent meeting, the Debating Council set December 9th, the Monday following Senior speaking, as a tentative date for holding the local Peace Contest, at which time Davidson's representative in the State contest will be selected. At this same meeting, the Council approved a contract signed for a debate between Emory University and Davidson, to be held at Agnes-Scott College, Decatur, Ga. This is the third debate of this series, Davidson having won the first and Emory the second. A debate with another institution is being considered, though no contract has as yet been signed.