| Literary Societies | SCHEDULE. Debate, Saturday night, October 21st: “Resolved, That the Federal Government Should Own and Operate all
Railroads Doing an Interstate Business.” Eumenean—Affirmative: Allen, Bachman, Bellingrath, T. M. Mitchell. Negative: Bennett, Boggs, Brand, T. J. Mitchell. Philanthropic—Affirmative:
Fleming, McDonald, Lott, Roberts, Thomas, Query. Negative: C. W. Worth, Bullock, Cumming, T. C. Stone, Foscue, Misenheimer. Declamations and Orations,
October 23rd—Owing to the fact that marshals will be elected in the two societies Monday morning, the regular exercises will
be suspended. The election of officers for the second term will also take place in the Eumenean Society. Eumenean Freshman
Society, Monday night, October 23rd—Debate—Affirmative: Burgess, Craig. Negative: Byrd, Grey. Declamations: Harold, King, Liston. WEEKLY MEETINGS. The subject for Saturday
night, October 14th, “Resolved that the judges of the Supreme Court should be elected by popular vote,” was upheld on
the affirmative by C. B. Robson, Cousar, Bellingrath, and Bachman, who contended that the present system of appointment of Supreme
Court judges is inconsistent with democracy and leads towards monarchy; that it has been a failure in the past, and
there would be too much power placed into the hands of a few. The negative, defended by Bennett, Fraser, Price,
and Matthews, argued that the electorate was incompetent of judging the ability of lawyers from the judicial standpoint; that popular
election tends to lower the standard of the judiciary; that it hampers the independence in case decisions, and that past
history upholds the system of appointment. The decision of both the house and judges was in favor of the negative.
Under the head of initiation of new members, J. S. Bachman and G. M. King were received into the society.
After the usual opening exercises in the Phi Society on Saturday night, a rather one-sided debate, from the viewpoint of
merit, was held. Those upholding the affirmative were: R. W. Robinson, R. L. Murray, T. N. Morton, B. H. Leyburn,
and D. C. Stagner. Those on the negative were: R. H. Stone, J. A. Thames, W. C. Neel, and G.
D. Sample. The negative won out by unanimous decision of the judges, and the house also decided in their favor.
In the Phi Society, the following program was rendered Monday morning: C. G. Brown gave a declamation entitled “Christopher Columbus”;
L. L. Wilson gave “The Opportunities of a Scholar,” by Grady; L. R. Lacy spoke a selection by W. C.
Bryant; and D. M. Chalmers’ subject was “The Destiny of America.” The following men gave orations: E. P. Nisbet, on
“The Sixteenth Belligerent,” showing why Greece enters the war on the side of the Allies, and how the people aroused
the king to enter the struggle. J. W. Mann spoke on “The Larger Duties of a College Man,” showing how
the world expects the college man to be the leader in every walk of life. O. C. Williamson was appointed
on. His oration on “The Moonlight School Movement,” showing the needs of and work accomplished in these schools in North
Carolina. On Monday morning, in the Eumenean Society, the following declamations were given: C. J. Hollandsworth, “Excelsior”; C. F. Allen,
“The Man With His Hat In His Hand.” A. P. Saunders gave a discussion on “The Committee Leaders of the
Next Congress,” in which he compared the records of the Democratic and Republican leaders whose appointments depend upon the turn
in the Presidential tide. L. W. Thomas gave an oration on “The Value of Physical Education,” showing that the mental,
in education, depends upon the physical. THE NOVEMBER MAGAZINE. While the November issue of the Davidson College Magazine has not
yet appeared on the campus, it will contain the following articles, which will no doubt make an interesting and high-class
publication: Pictures of My Mother, Anonymous; The Question of Shakespeare's Heroines: (1) Shakespeare Had No Heroes, T. L. Payne; (2)
Real Men vs. Ideal Men, L. A. Chambliss; The Silver Lining (poem), H. S. Lott; All's Fair (story), Williams Love;
A Christmas Revelry (story), S. M. Crisp; College Publications, T. J. Mitchell; The Spy (story), L. A. Chambliss; The Question
ofa Collegiate Training: (1) The Curriculum and that of Davidson. H. B. Arbuckle. In the Library.

CHARLOTTE SOROSIS HEARS DR. LINGLE

On Tuesday afternoon, October 10th, Dr. T. W. Lingle delivered a lecture at the home of Mrs. Chas. C. Hook,
Charlotte, N.C., before the Sorosis. Dr. Lingle’s subject was “South America,” and his lecture was comprehensive, interesting, and keenly appreciated.
The lecture was divided into five parts: the population, social conditions, economic conditions, trade conditions, and educational conditions. Each one
of these divisions was presented in an interesting way. The lecture was concluded with illustrations from maps of this continent.
Dr. Lingle was accompanied by Mrs. Lingle.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB GIVE CONCERT

Last night Davidson students enjoyed an excellent concert program given by the College Orchestra and Glee Club. Several new men
have been added to this organization and are a great help. Also, the Mandolin and Guitar Club made its first
appearance. This is the first organization of this kind at Davidson in several years, and it rendered an excellent program.
A small admission fee was charged to help bear the expenses of the trip which the organizations are planning to
make to Winston-Salem about November 1st. Later, probably in November, another trip will be made to several places, including Greensboro,
Raleigh, Wilmington, and Red Springs.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB

On Monday night the following men were initiated into the Blue Pencil Club, the local chapter of Sigma Upsilon: W.
H. Neal, Andrew Brown, E. H. Hamilton, and B. D. Roddey.

BOOKLOVERS' CLUB MET FRIDAY AFTERNOON

The Booklovers’ Club met last Friday afternoon with Mrs. Worth. The club is still studying the life and works of
Tolstoi, the great Russian writer. Mrs. Richards and Mrs. C. L. Grey read very interesting papers on the great author’s
works. There were about twelve present. The next meeting of the club will be held with Mrs. Withers and Mrs.
Mamie Withers next Friday.

FELLOWS, DO YOU EVER STOP TO READ

PIANOS AT ALL PRICES

The main thing in buying a Piano is not high polish or exterior considerations—but TONE—and lasting WORKMANSHIP. These you buy
with any PIANO we offer here at factory prices. Mail the coupon today for a catalogue and note our unusual
prices and liberal terms.

COUPON

Please send me a catalogue of pianos.

Chas. M. Stieff
219 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

TYPEWRITING

Let me fix that Senior Speech up in neat style. Present your English papers in an attractive way. Special rates
for regular work.

W. L. DOUGLAS
Name
Address
Quality & Service
See me at No. 7 Chambers

THE ADS. IN THIS PAPER

They make the paper possible and in turn should receive your careful attention.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

Brown’s
Something good to eat all the time

NOW FOR FOOTBALL

Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. J-5? This is the one used in every big college game
because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint.

Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

Leave orders with the cashier of Bank
Davidson, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY

Among the new books in the Library are the following: “Autobiography of Edward Livingston Trudeau, M.D.;” “On Being Human,” by
Woodrow Wilson; “Through Glacier Park;” “The Irish Orators;” “Let Us Go Afield;” “Towards An Enduring Peace;” “A Diplomat's Wife In
Mexico;” an autobiography of Charles Francis Adams; and “We.”

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

The following fiction seems to be popular: “Border Legion,” by Grey; “When a Man's a Man,” by Wright; “Grasp of
the Sultan;” “Seventeen,” by Tarkington; “People Like That,” by Bosher; and “List,” (Reinhardt).

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION
