Low Shoes
Come in, let us show you our line.
Also, a full line of UNDERWEAR.
M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service
TOBE JOHNSON
16 years at the same place

OUR LOW CUT SHOES
Are up-to-the-minute in Style and Quality.
Also, a full line of Straw, Sailors, and Panama Hats.
The very latest styles. Let us fit you up.
It will pay you to see our Palm Beach Suits—snappy patterns and styles.
Armour Bros. & Thompson

GOOD COAL
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with Cashier of Bank.
C.L. GREY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

C.C. BROWN
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Interior Decorator
Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South.

The DAVIDSONIAN, May 3, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE MONEY.
Let Your Next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s
Misenheimer & Payne, Agts.

No. 4

WITH OUR ALUMNI.
TO THE MEN OF 1913.

Three years ago we men of 1913 terminated what had been the happiest period of our lives. It is a
source of satisfaction and great pleasure to know that with this conclusion of our joyous college days, although we were
soon separated from that blessed companionship of the past four years, those bonds of friendship which had been so pleasantly
made and carefully nurtured were to continue forever.

Let us unite again this coming commencement season, to review and renew old acquaintances, ideas, and ideals, formed and developed
at old D.C. Prof. Jno. L. Douglas, on whom the responsibility of many such occasions has devolved, has asked that
I share with him in this big undertaking, and begin to lay plans for a reunion of our class, the
class of 1913.

The success of any reunion depends entirely on getting together those who are expected to unite, and it is to
this end that the columns of The Davidsonian have been so kindly tendered, and shall be used in the remaining
issues. This is not going to be my reunion, but I hope one of the class of 1913, and you
men who were ever to the call of the “green and white” and achieved success under the motto of “Labor
Vincit Omnia,” are requested and urged not only to be there yourselves, but also to bring some other member with
you. Watch these columns for further announcements.

McAlister Carson,
“Alumni Secretary for '13.”

* * *

J. C. Barry is doing hospital work at the United States Army Post at Columbus, Ohio.

* * *

Messrs. J. H. and G. B. Anderson, '71, of Spartanburg County, S.C., spent a day in Davidson last week.

* * *

R. M. Patrick, '00, who is now in the service of the United States Reclamation Service in the West, returned
to his home in Clover, S.C., for a short visit last week. He returned to his station in El Paso,
Tex., on Monday. Before entering the reclamation service, Patrick was in another branch of the government service for four years.

TOWN ITEMS.

Misses Elizabeth and Minnie Abernathy, of Charlotte, are the guests this week of Miss Bona Potts.

* * *

Miss Mary Henderson, who has been teaching at Mebane, N.C., has returned home for the summer.

* * *

Miss Carrie Thompson spent the weekend in Charlotte visiting friends.

Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Cranford, of Charlotte, spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford.

* * *

Dr. Arbuckle has gone to Rome, Ga., to deliver an address to the graduating class of the Rome High School.

* * *

Mr. Frank Wakefield and Mr. L. P. Long spent Sunday in Davidson.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Oklahoma—Oklahoma has four men who have run...the mile in less than 4:40. The records of the four are: Griffith 4:26,
Fields 4:34, Miller 4:35, and Keeper 4:40.

University of Georgia—The annual Georgia-Tech football game will be played in Athens next fall instead of in Atlanta, and the
plan is to alternate between the two cities in the future.

University of Virginia—Basketball is now a major sport at the University of Virginia, and the members of this year’s team
and of the teams in the future will receive the V for their reward in place of the B VB.
A meeting was held last week to decide this question, and the final vote was overwhelmingly in favor of giving
the V to basketball men.

Elon—The Senior class of Elon College has voted to make its memorial in the college a contribution of an arch
in front of the Administration building facing the railroad. The arch will cost $750, and it is the purpose of
the class to have it completed if possible for presentation and unveiling on graduation day, May 23.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

In keeping with the aim of the Y. M. C. A. to develop a man morally, mentally, and physically, the
meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on last Thursday night was devoted to a lecture from Dr. Bolling Hobson,
of Cornelius, on the structure, service, and care of the teeth and their share in developing and keeping one healthy
in body and mind. The first part of the lecture was taken up with an illustration of the structure and
growth of the teeth. This was followed by an outline of the service that the teeth render toward keeping a
person in good health and at his best. The talk was concluded with the discussion of some simple rules for
the proper care of the teeth.

LECTURE LAST WEEK.

An illustrated lecture on the "Eastern Forest Reserve" was given in Shearer Hall on last Thursday night by Mr. W.
S. Hall, who is District Forester for the Appalachian Mountain section. The lecture was mainly on the work of the
government in preserving and caring for the forests in this section. Three reasons were given showing the necessity for the
preservation of the forests: first, that forests hold the soil together and prevent erosion; second, that the timber is valuable
and will be needed; and third, that these mountain forest tracts make good summer resorts. Each of these points was
illustrated with pictures showing the utility of the forest areas and actual conditions in them were portrayed. A number of
pictures were also shown outlining the work that the government is doing both in making trails through the forests and
in the prevention of forest fires.

J. P. McNeill, '17, and W. E. Mattison, '17, spent several days last week in Raleigh, N.C.

"Preparedness"

We are prepared to furnish on the shortest notice the best that is to be had in Printing. Let J.
H. CARSON, our Davidson representative, quote you prices.

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet
Music.

213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Lion Brand
Collars, Shirts, Socks, Handkerchiefs, Ties
Anything to Wear

BELK BROTHERS

McClure Agent

W. L. Douglass, '18, who was recently operated on for appendicitis, is now back on the campus and attending classes.
