The DAVIDSONIAN, November 8, 1916

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

The Trinity Chronicle—The Junior class at Trinity College won the annual ten-mile relay race, establishing a record of 54 min.,
55 sec. Each class entered a team of ten men, and each man ran a mile. The men of ‘18
have won the race for the second time, and should they win again next year will retain possession of the
handsome loving cup awarded to the class winning three times.

College Topics—On November 11th the South Atlantic Intercollegiate cross-country race will be held in Washington. A team representing the University
of Virginia won this race last year, and students at the University believe that they will duplicate the feat again
this year.

The Cadet—At a meeting held recently between representatives of sixteen colleges and universities and the ranking officials of the War
Department, official authorization was given for the training in military science of students at those institutions. It is with pleasurable
pride that the students at V. M. I. noted that their college headed the list.

The Crimson-White—Four hundred men signed up for military training at the University of Alabama, but their instruction will not begin
until their equipment arrives. It is hoped to begin active work in about two weeks.

The Sun Dial—Over 250 of the students of Randolph-Macon Woman's College, at Lynchburg, Va., went on an excursion recently to
the Natural Bridge. The trip was enjoyed by all who made it, and besides brought over two hundred dollars to
help toward the laying of the cornerstone of the Student building that is soon to be erected.

The Old Gold and Black—When the Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament of South Carolina came to an end, Sims, of Carolina, won
in the singles, and Robertson and Haskell, of Clemson, in the doubles. The meet next year will be held at
Carolina, and Clemson has invited the Association to meet at Clemson the year after.

The Technique—The Georgia School of Technology expects to start a Y. M. C. A. in Hangchow, China. The campaign, under
the direction of a number of athletes, started November 2nd to raise the funds necessary to equip properly the work.
It will be known as the Foreign Department of the Tech Y. M. C. A., and will be run by
two secretaries that have been at Tech for several years.

The Mississippian—At a meeting of those who have won their letters in athletics at the University of Mississippi an organization
was effected to be known as the “M” Club. The object of this club will be to foster and encourage
athletics in the University.

The Kentucky Kernel—Ten thousand old students of the University of Kentucky are to return and have a golden jubilee. It
will be the most remarkable home-coming ever held.

At the regular semi-monthly meeting of the Polity Club held last Friday night, T. J. Mitchell gave a review of
“The Great Illusion,” by Norman Angell, following which there was a discussion of the book by the members. The following
men have recently been elected to membership in the club: E. H. Hamilton, D. I. McKeithen, J. W. Clark, L.
M. Thomas, J. I. Fowle, J. R. Woods.

Mr. R. F. Andrews, a man respected and considered one of Davidson's best citizens, who has given entirely satisfactory service
as agent for the Southern Railway, was succeeded last week by Mr. A. B. Holcomb. Mr. Andrews will enter other
lines of work.

John Moore, an old Davidson man, now teaching mathematics and physics in Winston-Salem High School, was on the Hill from
Friday night to Saturday noon.
