The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
J. H. Stone.......Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell.........Alumni Editor

THE STAFF:
R. H. Ratchford
A. P. Saunders
J. R. Woods
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT:
H. Neal........Business Manager
Paisley..... Circulation Manager
C. E. Fowlkes
H. Patterson
C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

COLLEGE ACTIVITIES.
In what particular phase of college activity can I accomplish the most both for myself and the college? This is a vital question and one which all of the new students should thoughtfully consider. Much valuable time has been lost by students because, after they had, without due consideration, possibly, decided to devote their time to one phase of college activity, they found that their talents better fitted them to engage in another.

The Davidson faculty and the student body, as a whole, have always considered the student's fidelity to college duties—to his studies—of the first importance. If, after the student has performed that duty well, he has ample spare time, he could and should concern himself with some special phase of college activity. The word “special” is here used because the average student, after he has done his academic work, cannot succeed, to any appreciable extent, in more than one of the outside college duties. For example, the young man who is a good student and good in literary work, has not the time, even if he had the talent, to excel in music and on the athletic field.

Would it not be good advice, then, to the new men, that they care first for their work, and, after doing that, select some college activity and devote their best, both of energy and of time, to it. Whether as a member of an athletic team, or as a member of the Orchestra and Glee Club, or whether in a literary line, one may receive training which will be invaluable in after life. The self-possession and spirit of co-operation exhibited by the athlete, the delicate sense of harmony shown by the Glee Club member, are traits of character well worth striving for. The literary society, not with the prestige among college students which it once enjoyed, is still the best friend of the college, and offers unlimited opportunities to the boy who is willing to strive.

The statement by President Wilson, while standing on the veranda of the Eumenean Society Hall last Spring, that in the Eu. Society he had attempted to make speeches and failed, is significant to all who have fears of failing in literary work. President Wilson, once an average society member, is now hailed as the nation’s greatest President and Administrator. The argument, new students, that you are no speaker will not hold. It is only an argument for your joining a literary society. The two literary societies at Davidson—the Eumenean and Philanthropic—will welcome you as members if you are willing to work.

THE RIGHT DECISION.
The educational spirit is abroad in the land, and thousands of young men and women will decide within the next week or two—either for their good or otherwise—whether in the program of their life a college education will have a place. The emoluments of commercial life to some; the pursuits of pleasure to others; laziness (genus hookworm) to still another class is in constant strife against the ambitious desires that spring up in the breast of every normal boy and girl. To the army of healthy and vigorous youths who have a college education within their reach, and this includes almost everyone, we would say that ten people today regret that they didn’t go to college to one who regrets that he did go. The educated man is prepared to live better, think better, serve better. Let the good impulse have its way and happily will you reflect on the day of such a decision.

AN AUDITING BOARD.
Under the blanket fee system which was passed last spring and which will be inaugurated with the opening of college, there is provided a uniform set of books in which the managers and treasurers may keep their accounts, also uniform blanks for the making of reports to the auditing board. There will be in effect also a set of rules governing the duties of the above officers of each of the student branches which come under the blanket fee. As soon as possible, the managers and treasurers of these organizations are requested to see the chairman of the board and get the above books and report blanks, together with copies of the rules, and explanations of the manner in which the accounts are to be kept. Beginning with the first day of college an accurate record of all transactions must be kept and the above officers are cautioned not to let this matter slip their attention.

Chairman of Audit Board.

PUBLIC LECTURES.
Under the supervision of the Faculty Committee on Public Lectures, arrangements are being made to give a series of lectures at Davidson this year. These will be given by members of the Faculty, and well-known speakers from other places. A similar plan was adopted last year, and the lectures were interesting and well attended, and it is hoped that the series this year will be even better. In addition to these lectures, another series will be given semi-monthly during the fall by members of the faculty, visitors and selected members of the upper classes, dealing with subjects of especial interest to the students beginning their college course, such as campus life, college honor, study, hygiene, etc. Attendance upon these lectures by the Freshmen will be required.

JUNIOR GERMAN OFFERED.
It was announced in class last spring and printed in the catalog that German 2(A) (Junior German) would not be offered this year. Recently, however, Professor Withers has been secured as associate professor in Modern Languages. Professor Withers will teach Junior French and Professor Lingle Junior German.

COLLEGE PUBLICATIONS.
College students cannot all agree as to which is the most popular study which they are pursuing. There is, then, no universally popular branch of study. Neither do college men agree as to which is...the most profitable field of endeavor for activities as a parallel with collegiate work. Many think that football presents the greatest field for achievement. Others contend that baseball offers greater inducements. Some prefer the Orchestra and Glee Club; others choose literary work—debating, writing for the college magazine, annual, or newspaper, and other phases of endeavor which present themselves to the energetic, ambitious college student. All of these present themselves in shining array at Davidson. There is something which will meet the demand of almost every temperament. It is not only the privilege, but the duty of the college student to enter into these activities with great “pep.” He owes this to his college and to himself. Of all these, doubtless the departments of literary work are more accessible to everyone. It is possible for all to make contributions to the publications, while it is impossible for everyone to make a star play on the athletic field. Coming with the Blanket System comes a better Davidson College Magazine. Heretofore contributions were received for this publication in larger part from members of the two literary societies. It was thought to be a product of the societies and was not supported by the student body. Under its new regime, it comes as a mirror of the literary tastes and appreciations of the college as a whole. This offers manifold opportunities to improve the latent literary talent. There is nothing which stirs the imagination in a productive way more than creating a short story or a poem. Then comes the Annual—Quips and Cranks—ranked as one of the best in the South. This management, too, invites every Davidson student to co-operate with them in putting out the best publication possible. The Davidsonian is a complete record of the happenings on the campus and of interesting events among the alumni. It also carries news concerning other colleges. It stands for advancing the cause of Davidson College by strengthening the tie which binds the alumnus and his alma mater. It is a fact that The Davidsonian is one of the most representative of college papers. The editorial staff invites every student to have his name on their assignment list. There is no better parallel work in connection with Freshman English than doing work for these publications. They work in perfect harmony. It is the ability to put knowledge into practice that counts. Students who enter this field of work not only benefit themselves, but are doing a work which helps the college and makes the alumni grateful.

R. H. S.

Due to an almost inexcusable oversight on the part of the editors, no mention was made in the commencement issue of The Davidsonian last Spring of the awarding of the Gryphon Medal which is presented annually to that member of the Senior class who, in the estimation of the Gryphon Order, has done most for the college during that year. That coveted prize was awarded last commencement to J. P. Williams, than whom no other has had the welfare of the student body and the college more at heart. Williams was president of the Student Body and was instrumental in having a number of important reforms in student life instituted at Davidson. He is now working in connection with the Bureau of Municipal Research, with headquarters in New York.

COLLEGE DIRECTORY.

Below is given a partial list of the men who will be in charge of the student activities at Davidson this year, so far as they have been elected:

Student Body: S. R. Keesler, president; F. Hengeveld and J. M. Black, vice-presidents; J. W. McAlister, secretary-treasurer.

Y. M. C. A.: T. P. Mitchell, president; P. B. Price, vice-president; G. C. Bellingrath, secretary; J. R. Woods, treasurer. Cabinet: E. P. Nisbet, F. H. Baker, S. T. Henderson, S. R. Keesler, A. B. Reese, Jr., D. I. McKeithan, L. A. Chambliss, J. A. Thames, F. Hengeveld.

Literary Societies: Eumenean—L. H. Eikel, president; J. R. Woods, vice-president; E. A. Solomons, secretary; A. R. Craig, treasurer; T. J. Mitchell, reviewer. Philanthropic—S. T. Henderson, president; W. C. Cumming, vice-president; R. D. Hall, secretary; J. A. Thames, treasurer; R. H. Ratchford, critic.

Class Organizations: Class of '17—D. I. McKeithan, president; B. D. Roddey, vice-president; C. R. Jenkins, secretary-treasurer. Class of '18—J. R. Woods, president; (Other officers have not yet been elected). Class of '19—L. B. Dougherty, president; J. Pickens, vice-president; H. G. Williamson, secretary-treasurer.

Football: B. N. White, captain; A. B. Reese, manager; J. W. Clark and R. C. Jones, assistant managers.

Publications: Davidsonian—P. B. Price, editor-in-chief; J. A. Thames, managing editor; W. H. Neal, business manager; J. C. Paisley, circulation manager. Davidson College Magazine—Staff: L. A. Chambliss, editor-in-chief; W. H. Neal, W. C. Cumming, T. J. Mitchell; R. H. Ratchford, business manager; H. B. Fraser, assistant business manager. Quips and Cranks—Andrew Brown, editor-in-chief; S. T. Henderson, business manager; J. A. Thames and R. P. Richardson, assistant business managers.

Student Council: S. R. Keesler, E. P. Nisbet, S. T. Henderson, P. B. Price, W. Y. Sayad, J. R. Woods, A. P. Saunders, J. L. Fowle, L. M. Thomas, L. B. Dougherty, G. H. Rowland, L. M. Johnston.

NEW SCHEDULE OF RECITATIONS

The new schedule of recitations will be found on page three of this issue of The Davidsonian. All students are requested to go over it carefully and select their subjects so as to conform to the groups required by the catalogue (pp. 64 and 65) and prevent conflicts. Bring your copy of the schedule underlined in pencil and present it to the proper recorder when you matriculate. This will save your time and his. The recorder will, of course, be glad to help you solve any difficulties which may arise and take all the time necessary, but you will help materially if you will outline the work as far as you can. The student is held responsible for seeing that he is electing the studies which properly lead to graduation and also avoiding all conflicts.

NEW COLLEGE HOME.

Plans have been drawn and accepted for a new college home which, when finished, will be occupied by Dr. M. E. Sentelle. The new structure, which will be of a bungalow type, will occupy a part of the vacant lot at the corner of Concord Avenue and Main Street. Work on the new building has already begun.

To the new students: The College Catalogue gives definite and detailed information about Davidson. Have you read it?