The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Sophs Are Victorious In Field Day Events

Interesting Meet Held on Saturday Afternoon.

The annual Field Day events were held last Saturday afternoon from 3 to 6:45. There was a large attendance, including several visitors from out of town, and the occasion was a decided success. Much interest was shown in the contests, and some excellent records were made. The Sophs won the meet with 59 points, the other scores being: Fresh 34, Seniors 24, Juniors 7. G. S. Crouch, ’18, won the gold medal for the largest individual score, making 25 points. The events were as follows:

100 yard dash—Morrison, Worth, ’18, second; McKinnon, third. 10.6 seconds.
One mile run—Brand, ’18, second; Johnson, 4:56 3/5.
220 yard dash—Morrison, McKinnon, ’17, second; Ives, 24 2/5 seconds.
High jump—Younger, ‘19, first; Alexander, '19, second; D. E. McCloy, '18, third. 5 feet 4 3/4 inches.
Baseball throw—Alford, Younger, '19, second; Lawson, third. 308.2 feet.
440 yard dash—Crouch, ‘18, first; McKinnon, '17, second. 59.4 seconds.
Pole vault—Perry, ‘16, first; Boggs, '18, second; Lawson, '18, third. 10 feet 2 inches.
High hurdles—Worth, '18, second; Perry, 17 3/5 seconds.
Shot put—Knight, ‘19, first; Mountcastle, '18, second; 35 feet.
880 yard run—Johnson, '16, second; 2:10.
Discus—Grey, ‘18, first; Knight, ‘19, second; Lawson, '18, third. 107 feet.
Broad jump—Mountcastle, '18, first; Perry, '16, second; Alexander, ‘19, third. 19.5 feet.
Low hurdles—Crouch, '18, first; Worth, '18, second; Perry, 29 seconds.
Two mile run—Brand, '18, first; W. C. Worth, ‘19, second; Finley, third. 11 2/5 minutes.
Class relay race—Sophs, first; Fresh, second; Seniors, third.

TRACK MEET WITH CLEMSON SATURDAY

The Clemson-Davidson track meet will be held on the athletic field Saturday at 2:30 o'clock. The events will be the same as on Field Day, excepting the two mile run. Due to the fact that Clemson did not have the two-mile run and Davidson did not have the hammer throw, both will be omitted. On account of the showing made by some of the new men on Field Day, there will probably be a change in the line-up. There will be trials on Wednesday and Thursday to decide on several men. In this meet Davidson will have twelve men, whereas in the other meets there were only ten. There will be no delay between the events, as was the case on Field Day.

CLASS OF 1916

First row, standing, left to right: W. C. Rourk, R. W. Morrison, A. M. McKeithan, J. G. Patton, R. Perry, T. M. Hill, E. G. Clary.
Second row, left to right: J. McLeod, D. Shaw, F. M. Hollister, J. P. Williams, H. McCormick, L. A. Crawford, J. M. McBryde, R. H. Bennett, E. J. McIntire, J. F. Good.
Third row: W. L. Law, R. H. Jones, J. T. Williams, J. H. Carson, J. O. Payne, F. H. Smith, G. B. Hoyt, W. G. Morrison, M. R. Adams, W. P. Johnson, A. P. Cashion.
Fourth row: L. A. Mullen, N. Warrior, H. W. Ormand, R. G. Finley, W. H. Witt.
Bottom row: K. A. Sparrow, L. G. Edgerton, H. L. Bain, W. A. Johnson, H. McDonald, B. A. Morrison.

Complete Plans Arranged For Coming Commencement

Shakespearean Pageant and Other Interesting Exercises Will Feature This Important Event.

The commencement exercises for the 1916 class will begin with the Baccalaureate Sermon, Sunday, May 28th, at 11 a.m., delivered by Dr. Sentelle. The program for the exercises has come from the press, but there are several changes that must be made. In place of the Senior orations at 11 a.m. on Tuesday, comes the address by Mr. Barrett at 11:30, and also on the same day the alumni luncheon will be given in the old gymnasium at 6:30 p.m., in place of the general meeting which was to have been held in Shearer Hall at 2:30. At this meeting officers and trustees will be elected and matters of general business attended to. After the close of the exercises on Tuesday morning, the alumni, visitors, faculty, and students will adjourn to the site of the proposed alumni gymnasium. Short talks will be made by prominent alumni and ground will be broken for the new building. The complete program with changes made to date is as follows:

SUNDAY, MAY 28.
11:00 a.m.—Baccalaureate Sermon: Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Davidson.N. C. 8:30 p.m.—Annual Sermon before the Y. M. C. A.: Rev. A. D. McClure, D.D., Wilmington, N.C.

MONDAY, MAY 29.
10:00 a.m.—Gymnasium Exhibit.
4:00 p.m.—Musical Entertainment by Davidson College Orchestra and Glee Club.
8:00 p.m.—Annual Address before Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies: Alumni Orator, W. F. Carter, Mt. Airy, N.C. Reunion of Literary Societies.

TUESDAY,
9:00 a.m.—Annual Board of Trustees.
10:00 a.m.—Annual Literary Address: John Barrett, Director General Pan-American Union.
4:30 p.m.—Class Day Exercises.
6:30 p.m.—Alumni Luncheon in Old Gymnasium.
8:30 p.m.—Oratorical Contest between Literary Societies.
10:30 p.m.—Alumni Library Building.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
10:30 a.m.—Senior Orations, Announcement of Distinctions, Presentation of Class Trophies.
11:00 a.m.—Graduating Exercises, Conferring of Degrees.
3:30 p.m.—Senior Celebration.
8:30 p.m.—Reception by Societies, Fraternities, and Student Body.

THE SHAKESPEAREAN PERFORMANCE.
The Shakespearean performance which is to be given by the Senior class at commencement has been worked up with a great deal of care by the class and promises to be an interesting and unique production. The committee on arrangements for the scenic program, of which L. A. Mullen is chairman, is preparing for scenes from “Julius Caesar,” “Henry the Fourth,” and “Henry the Eighth.” These will be staged at dusk on the campus where the natural beauty of the campus and the electrical effects will be most advantageously used as a background. The funds received from the minstrel performance and from the moving picture shows now being given are to be used to procure the costumes and defray the other expenses of the affair.

MAY 30,
Meeting of Board of Trustees.
Reception in New Gymnasium.

Ground For Gymnasium To Be Broken Soon
Plans Are Being Made For a Handsome Building.

A new gymnasium for Davidson, well equipped and modern in every respect, is no longer a mere vision to be realized some time in the indefinite future, but a building for which plans will be drawn at once. The campaign for the adding of $100,000 to the resources of Davidson College—$25,000 for a new gymnasium and $75,000 for additional endowment—is now practically completed. In fact, the campaign has been brought so nearly to a successful end that friends and alumni of the college will not see it fail; hence the considering of definite plans for Davidson's new and modern gymnasium. Ground for the foundation of the new building will be broken at the coming commencement, for which event a fitting program will later be arranged. Work on the new structure will be rushed during the summer months, and it is expected that by Christmas, at the latest, the building will be ready for occupancy.

According to the map of the campus, drawn by Mr. Nolen some time ago, the new gymnasium will occupy a position just to the rear of the Chambers building, being in a line with Chambers and as far to the rear as the Phi Hall is to the front. An indoor basketball court, rooms for boxing, ample lockers, and rooms for coaches and visiting teams will be some of its features. But perhaps the feature most prized by the students will be the spacious swimming pool which will occupy space on the ground floor. In the drawing of plans, the modern features of many of the new gymnasiums of the South are being carefully considered, as it is desired that the new building shall embody as many of them as possible. The general plan of the new gymnasium at Winthrop College, the plans and specifications for which were carefully revised by one of the best consulting architects of the United States, is especially being studied.

Davidson’s alumni should have a special, two-fold reason for attending commencement this year: to aid in celebrating the successful conclusion of a campaign for additional endowment and to see the ground broken for a gymnasium which Davidson has needed for many years. The campaign closes on May 20, so that there will be no soliciting for the campaign at commencement.

MOVING PICTURES UNDER AUSPICES OF SENIORS
On Monday afternoon and night, under the auspices of the Senior class, the Shakespearean tragedy “Othello” was shown in moving pictures at the “Motion Picture Palace.” This is the first of two productions which the Senior class is going to present for the benefit of the Shakespearean pageant which it will give during commencement. The second production, which is the “Life of William Shakespeare,” in four reels, will be given next Monday.

Rev. Mr. Hough was the guest of Professor and Mrs. Currie, Sunday.