The DAVIDSONIAN, December 6, 1916

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

Find yourself equipped for the winter per Jim Reynolds. In the game against the Auburn Freshman, it is claimed that
he punted the ball eighty yards on the fly.

THE ALL-STATE TEAM.

Below is given the selection for the all-state football team, as picked by Carey Dowd, sporting editor of the Charlotte
News:

SECOND TEAM:
- King (D. C.) - End
- Ramsey (N. C.) - Tackle
- Cooke (A. & M.) - Guard
- Harrell (N. C.) - Guard
- Tandy (N. C.) - Center
- Currie (N. C.) - Guard
- White (D. C.) - Guard
- Grimes (N. C.) - Guard
- Tayloe (N. C.) - Guard
- R. Walker (D. C.) - Guard
- McDougall (A&M) - Guard
- Brocklin (A&M) - Quarterback
- Keesler (D. C.) - Quarterback
- C. Walker (D. C.) - Quarterback

Winthrop Weekly News—Several members on the staff of the paper published by the students at Winthrop attended the annual meeting
of the S. C. College Press Association held recently in Greenville. Fifty-four delegates attended from the various colleges, and during
the days of the conference, the numerous phases of college newspaper work were taken up and fully discussed.

Red and Black—With the football season over, attention is now being turned at the University of Georgia to the game.
Students have been urged to come out and play. A game has not yet been definitely arranged, but the trip
will probably be taken up into Tennessee. Letters have also been written to the Universities of Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Davidson, and also to many Y. M. C. A. teams and city athletic associations.

The Game Cock—Dr. James I. Vance, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Nashville, Tenn., will deliver a series of
addresses at the University of South Carolina, December 5-7. The addresses will be delivered under the auspices of the Y.
M. C. A., and it is very fortunate in securing as able a man as Dr. Vance.

The Florida Alligator—A plan is on foot to establish a Training Detachment of the Medical Corps, U. S. A., at
the University of Florida. Students who join such a detachment will be in the Red Cross service for two years
in time of peace, and if war occurs, they will be free to do as they please. One of the
most attractive features of the plan is...

JOHNSON & POTTS
Quick Delivery Our Specialty

Gilmer-Moore Shoe Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

24-hour delivery

Gents Furnishings

Just Received A New Line of Woolen Shirts, Ties, Socks, Arm Bands, Pants Supporters, Collars, Etc.

Call at 67 Chambers and look this line over

SPRATT - Agent

Black Bros.
Charlotte, N. C.This work is: the annual summer camp which introduces the detachment to conditions such as would be met
with in time of service.

Oldest : Quickest : Best

The Tar Heel—Next year the annual football game between North Carolina and Virginia will be played at Chapel Hill and
the year following at Charlottesville. Both universities have been desirous for some time of playing this annual classic on their
home fields, and now it has been arranged.

Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
Sayad & Douglas, Agents

The Agnostic—A party was given recently at Agnes Scott to all students and members of the faculty from Virginia. The
decorations, olden time roaring fire, and refreshments all furthered the impression that they were in the “Old Dominion.” After the
refreshments were served, everyone drew up around the fire and had a glorious time laughing, talking, and singing Virginia songs.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

Mrs. C. M. Richards entertained a number of the young ladies of the village at dinner Saturday evening.

Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Martin, and daughter, Miss Eloise, motored to Charlotte Monday.

Miss Grace Lilly, of Winston-Salem, spent the weekend with Mrs. W. J. Martin.

Miss Bonnie Shelton, from Queens, spent the weekend in town.

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agents

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. B. PATTERSON, Representative

Fullback, ‘The Stetson-Rloch Co., 1918 basketball. All those interested in a good team are expected. The schedule: Folger (N. C.)
Half. Lee (A. & M.) Burns (D. C.) Tennant (N.C.)

The Peace Contest, which was scheduled to have been held Monday night, has been postponed until a later date owing
to unavoidable circumstances.

THE COLLEGE “FOLLOW-UP.”

“My college certainly takes an interest in its graduates,” said Jones to Smith.
“How’s that?” asked Smith.
“Why, here I get a note from the dean saying he will be glad to hear of the death of
any of the alumni.”

Instill in the minds of our young people the necessity of building character that will win the respect of all;
this is vastly more important than a great fortune.—Marshall Field.

The question for each man to settle is not what he would do if he had means, time, influence, and
educational advantages, but what he will do with the things he has.—Hamilton Wright Mabie.

Fall Line of Chase & Sanborn Coffee and Tea
New Lot Men’s Shoes
Armour Bros. Thompson

ATTENTION COLLEGE BOYS
We will refund all Davidson College students their railroad fare to Winston-Salem, N. C. and return who make purchases of
$25.00 or more. Fare one way on $15.00
L. E. C. BOYLES BROS.
One of the Largest Clothiers in the Carolinas
REIDSVILLE, N. C.
WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
