The DAVIDSONIAN, October 11, 1916

WITH THE ALUMNI

REUNION OF THE CLASS OF 1876

Rev. A. M. Fraser, pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Staunton, Va., sends the following communication:

At the last commencement, the class of 1876 held a reunion in the hall of the Philanthropic Society and effected an organization, with W. B. Arrowood as president, and A. M. Fraser as secretary. This class numbered seventeen at the time of its graduation, and twelve of them are still living, after a lapse of forty years. Seven of the twelve attended the reunion—W. B. Arrowood, W. F. Carter, T. B. Craig, A. M. Fraser, R. M. Miller, Jr., J. E. P. Robinson, and E. M. Summerell. The other survivors were heard from and nearly all had hoped to attend this reunion. They are Duncan Rose, L. A. Simpson, T. A. Titcomb, J. A. Tyson, and B. F. Watkins. R. M. Miller, Jr., entertained the class at a sumptuous dinner and presented each member with a reunion button. He is an enthusiastic Davidsonian and president of the Alumni Association. He will print in pamphlet form sketches of the members of the class, the living and the dead. In the preparation of this pamphlet, he will be assisted by W. F. Carter, who also worked with him in the getting of the reunion. The class decided to have an annual correspondence among the members, and to hold another reunion in 1926 to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its graduation.

A. M. Fraser, Sec'y.

J. P. Paisley, '05, who is now in the lumber business in Paris, Tex., writes that he is very much pleased with the appearance of The Davidsonian and very interested in reading it each week.

W. A. Dumas, '15, who took his M.A. degree here last year, is now studying medicine at the University of Texas.

D. W. Lane, ex-'17, now has a position with the civil engineering department of the city of Palatka, Fla. His address is 216 North Second street.

J. P. (Shorty) Williams is now on the staff of the Bureau of Municipal Research, in Rochester, N. Y., having been transferred from the office in New York City.

The following letter was recently received from R. S. Marshall, '09, who is now Supervisor of Agencies for the Philadelphia Life Insurance Company, with offices in Washington, D. C.:

“October 2, 1916.

“Dear Sir: Mr. W. A. Elliott, '10, entertained the following Davidson men for dinner at the University Club in this city on last Saturday night: James White, '07; R. S. Marshall, '09; Ben Thurman, '10; and Dr. R. B. Hill, '10. The evening was spent very enjoyably.”

W. R. Norris, '14, writes that he is now a chemist in the Benzol Department of the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Co., at Fairfield (Birmingham), Alabama.

The following letter from D. R. Nimocks, ex-'19, will no doubt be read with interest by the old students:

“Fort Bliss, Camp Stewart, Tex.

“October 3, 1916.

“Just a line to let you know where I am, and to ask you to send me The Davidsonian. When the National Guard was called out I enlisted. We stayed at Camp Glenn (our mobilization camp) about three months and finally got the order to go to the border. We entrained and after five days and nights’ journey arrived here. Our camp site is ideal. It is situated at the foot of a spur of the Sierra Nevadas, about two miles from Fort Bliss, proper, and about eight miles from El Paso. With us at the camp are seven brigades of Pennsylvania troops (one of which we relieve), four regiments of cavalry and three artillery, and two regiments of South Carolina troops.

“Those who compose the division extend about four or five miles. The boys as a whole seem fairly well satisfied. We have four or five Davidson men here. They are: Lamont Fields, Douglas Brown, and Louis Johnson (all of whom are town boys). Then there are R. W. Porter, ex-'17, and M. C. Carmichael, '13, I think, besides myself.

“I want you to send me The Davidsonian. If you have the issue of the Virginia-Davidson football game, please send it.

“With best wishes and hoping to be with you all for the spring session, I am

“Sincerely,

“D. R. Nimocks.

“El Paso, Tex., Co. B., and N.C. Inf.”

A SECOND OPEN LETTER

From the University Commission on Southern Race Questions to the College Men of the South.

In its first open letter to college men of the South, issued at the beginning of the present year, the University Commission urged them to unite their efforts with those of the press, the pulpit, the bar, the officers of the law, and all other agencies laboring for the elimination of the monster evil of mob violence. These agencies have labored diligently and with substantial results as is indicated by the decrease of the average annual number of lynchings from 171 for the decade 1886-1895 to 70 for the decade 1906-1915. Nevertheless, the commission wishes to reiterate its appeal with renewed emphasis, knowing that the eradication of so virulent a social disease as the lynching mania can be effected only by the prolonged and vigorous efforts of sane and patriotic citizens. In this letter, the commission wishes to direct the attention of the college men to theEducational aspect of the race question, inasmuch as the solution of all human problems ultimately rests upon rightly directed education. In its last analysis, education simply means bringing forth all the native capacities of the individual for the benefit both of himself and of society. It is axiomatic that a developed plant, animal, or man is far more valuable to society than the undeveloped. It is likewise obvious that ignorance is the most fruitful source of human ills. Furthermore, it is as true in a social as in a physical sense that a chain is no stronger than its weakest link. The good results thus far obtained, as shown by the Negro’s progress within recent years, prompt the commission to urge the extension of his educational opportunities.

The inadequate provision for the education of the Negro is more than an injustice to him; it is an injury to the white man. The South cannot realize its destiny if one-third of its population is undeveloped and inefficient. For our common welfare, we must strive to cure disease wherever we find it, strengthen whatever is weak, and develop all that is undeveloped. The initial steps for increasing the efficiency and usefulness of the Negro race must necessarily be taken in the school room. There can be no denying that more and better schools with better trained and better paid teachers, more adequate supervision, and longer terms are needed for the blacks as well as the whites. The Negro schools are, of course, parts of the school systems of their respective States, and as such share in the progress and prosperity of their State systems. Our appeal is for a larger share for the Negro, on the ground of the common welfare and common justice. He is the weakest link in our civilization and our welfare is indissolubly bound up with his. Many means are open to the college men of the South for arousing greater public interest in this matter and for promoting a more vigorous public effort to this end. A right attitude in this, as in all other important public questions, is a condition precedent to success. For this reason, the commission addresses to Southern college men this appeal.

(Signed)
J. J. Doster, Alabama.
D. Y. Thomas, Arkansas.
James M. Farr, Florida.
R. J. H. Deloach, Georgia.
William O. Scroggs, Louisiana.
W. L. Kennon, Mississippi.
E. C. Branson, North Carolina.
Josiah Morse, South Carolina.
James D. Hoskins, Tennessee.
William S. Sutton, Texas.
W. M. Hunley, Virginia.

THE OLDEST GRADUATE

The honor belongs to North Carolina. The oldest living graduate in the United States is a native of this State and a graduate of the University. They were trying to claim this distinction for Doctor Nixon, the Emory College graduate who sent a contribution of one dollar to the Wilson campaign fund, as related in Monday's paper, and who took his diploma at Oxford, Ga., in 1845. Mr. Walter Murphy, who knows more North Carolina history offhand than any other citizen of the State, gives The Observer the interesting bit of information that Francis T. Bryan, of New Bern, graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1839 and holds the honor of being the oldest graduate in this country. He also graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point, and that was in 1845, the year of Doctor Nixon's graduation at Oxford. Mr. Bryan is yet living. He is a resident of St. Louis, where he made a vast fortune in real estate. He was born in New Bern in 1820 and was one of seven brothers, all of whom were University graduates. One of these is Judge Henry R. Bryan. Another is William Shepard Bryan, formerly Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Maryland and whose son is now Attorney General of that State. The winning of distinctions at home or abroad is a mighty common thing for North Carolina.—Charlotte Observer.

"PEP" MEETING HELD LAST FRIDAY NIGHT

An enthusiastic “Pep” meeting was held Friday night in the chapel as a forerunner to the Davidson-A. & M. game, which was played Saturday in Charlotte. After a few selections by the Orchestra, several yells that were introduced last year were practiced and learned by nearly all present. Also, the songs were tried out and proved exceptionally good. Stirring speeches by S. T. Henderson and E. P. Nisbet emphasized the importance of every man in the Student Body being present at the game to back up the Red and Black.

REAL CONTENTMENT is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists : Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Gilbert & Patterson Agents
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Statesville, N. C.

GENTLEMEN
WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. M. Patterson, - - Representative