The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Senior Speaking Programme Formed

Fourth Year Men Choose Subjects For Orations.

The plans for Senior Speaking are being rapidly carried to completion. Invitations are being printed and will probably be here within the course of a week. There will be a much larger number of speeches than last year’s class seemed to indicate. From all signs, the occasion bids fair to be an enjoyable and profitable one. The proposed program of the speaking follows:

FRIDAY AFTERNOON, DEC. 1, 3 O'CLOCK.

Music.
Invocation.
Music.
F. H. Baker (Eu), Savannah, Ga. — Bacteria.
Andrew Brown (Eu), Corinth, Miss. — American Naval Power.
J. W. Bullock (Phi), Bullock, N.C. — The Greatest Statesman of the Day.
Music.
H. A. Campbell (Phi), Aberdeen, N.C. — The Advantage of Our Political Parties.
R. W. Carroll, Jackson, Miss. — The Relations of the Lawyer to the Public.
A. T. Cashion, Davidson, N.C. — A Great Leader.
Music.
A. R. Craig (Eu), Pendleton, — The High Cost of Living.
L. H. Fikel (Eu), Fort White, Fla. — Preparedness for Peace.
W. A. Finley (Phi), North Wilkesboro, N.C. — Has the Democratic Form of Government Proven a Success?
Music.
F. H. Hamilton (Eu), Atlanta, Ga. — Worse Than War.
C. S. C. Harris, Albemarle, N.C. — Our New Burden.
S. T. Henderson (Phi), Charlotte, N.C. — The American and the Foreign City.

FRIDAY EVENING, DEC. 1, 7:30 O'CLOCK.

Music.
Invocation.
Music.
J. K. Hobson (Eu), Waterford, Va. — A Few Experiments.
Rawls Howard, Tarboro, — Am I My Brother’s Keeper?
D. V. Huason (Eu), Kashing, China — Modern Science.
Music.
R. E. Hughes, Cedar Grove, N.C. — Febre, Poet of Science.
C. R. Jenkins (Eu), Charleston, S.C. — The Mailed Fist in American History.
S. K. Keesler, Jr. (Eu), Greenwood, Miss. — America After War: Our Commercial Opportunity.
Music.
W. P. Keesler, Greenwood, Miss. — Cotton and Chemistry.
J. R. Laird, Jr., Decatur, Ga. — Our Relationship With Japan.
D. I. McKeithan (Phi), Aberdeen, N.C. — The Power of the Modern Newspaper.
Music.
L. D. McKinnon, Laurinburg, N.C. — Our Need of An Auxiliary Coast Patrol.
M. McKinnon, Laurinburg, N.C. — Prohibition by State.

(Continued on page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., NOVEMBER 15, 1916. No. 10

Davidson Loses State Title

Although Carolina Is Outplayed, University Wins By Score of 10-6, While Dame Fortune Frowns On the Red and Black.

Davidson out-guessed and out-classed the University of North Carolina in every department of the annual football game at Winston-Salem Saturday, but the final score was 10-6 with Davidson at the wrong end. The above figures give some idea of the game, but one had to see that game in order to give justice to whom justice is due. If ever a team really deserved a victory, it was that same little well-coached, fighting team which has represented Davidson College with such untold credit to themselves and to their college in the 1916 football season. Back in the old days, there may have been Davidson teams that were stronger, but it is hardly conceivable that any of her teams could have shown more fighting heart or stood up under such extraordinary breaks of fortune without faltering or wavering than did those fifteen, wearing the fighting red, who represented Davidson on Saturday.

This team was outweighed 10 pounds or more to the man, and besides, their opponents were men who had had much more football experience. Then, too, there was that old Carolina jinx to overcome, and how they overcame these odds should go down in football history as one of the gamest hard-luck battles ever put up by a football eleven. The “irresistible force” of the Davidson backfield tore holes in the supposedly “immovable body” — the Blue and White line — and the “Thin Red Line” of Davidson played rings around their heavier opponents. The men “down in the much of the line” were all there.

BREAKS OF THE GAME

It can be said with justice that it has been always characteristic of Davidson men to admit defeat at the hands of a worthy rival and not to make excuses for that defeat. The best team, however, did not win in Saturday’s game. It must be said in justice to Coach Fetzer and that fighting Red and Black team that with anything like the ordinary breaks...of the game, victory would have been theirs. "The Goddess of Fortune was more than fickle Saturday, perhaps deciding that to have Woodrow Wilson re-elected and have their team defeat Carolina was too much to allow Davidson College within the limits of one week. At any rate, the breaks were invariably against Davidson. Carolina suffered some also, but the very close decisions which had such a bearing on the (Continued on page 5)

SCHEDULE.

EXAM.

FRESH. SOPH.

SAT.—09
Greek 1
Greek 2
9 A.M.
French 2
German 2

MON.—11
Chem. 1
English 2
2 P.M.
Phys.

TUES.—12
Latin 1
Latin 2
9 A.M.

THURS.—14
Bible 1
Phys. 2
9 A.M.

FRIDAY—
German 1
Chem. 2
15—9 A.M.
French 1

SAT.—16
9 A.M.

MON.—18
2 P.M.

TUES.—19
Math. 1
Math. 2
9 A.M.

WED.—20
Hist.
Biol. 1
9 A.M.
Greek A

THURS
Eng. 1
Bible 2
21—9 A.M.

JUNIOR, SENIOR.

Biol.
History 3
Geol.
French 3
Chemistry 4
Appl. Math.
Chemistry 5
Law
Greek 5
Phil 1
Math. 3
Spanish 1
Church Hist.
Ast.
Bible 3
German 3
Math. 4
Phys. 3
Phil. 2
Hist. 36
Eng. 3
Education
Hist. 2
Chem. 2
Phys. 4
Pub. Sp.
Appl. Math. 2
Pol. Econ. 14
French 4
German 4
Greek 27

Returns of Election Received By Students

Enthusiastic Meeting Is Held In Shearer Hall.

Few "Pep" meetings before a big football game have ever been as enthusiastic as was the meeting which was held in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night to get the returns from the National election. The managers of the local picture show consented to transfer their show to the hall for the night and in addition to the regular reels which they had scheduled, Dr. J. W. McConnell very kindly loaned some films showing the Celebration in Charlotte on May 20th, and also some scenes at Camp Glenn, the State mobilization camp. In addition, the Orchestra played a number of selections throughout the meeting. The messages giving the returns were received by means of a telephone installed in the hall and they were taken down and announced to the waiting crowd of students and townspeople who filled the hall just as fast as they came in. The time between bulletins was interspersed with yells, songs, movies, and music, all of which kept the audience enthusiastic until the message was received that Hughes was in the lead by eight electoral votes, and that additional information would not be available for some hours. This message came at 12:30 p.m., so the meeting was adjourned to await further returns in the morning, and it was not until Thursday night that the election of Wilson was definitely announced, and then it was that the students started out to celebrate the re-election of an old Davidson student. The thanks of the student body are due to Messrs. Torrence and Black, the managers of the local movie show, for their service, to the telephone company for the installation of a phone, to the Orchestra for the music rendered, and to S. P. Henderson, W. E. Neal, and W. J. Mitchell for their efforts in arranging the meeting and plans for getting the returns, as well as for the manner in which they handled them as they came in.

OUR NEXT GAME.

If the contract is closed, the prospects for an interesting game with Wofford are good. The game will furnish a welcome break in the open schedule between November 11th and November 20th, and will give the Red and Black machine another chance for a victory before its final fight against Clemson on Thanksgiving. Although the Wofford team lost to Citadel, they put up a steady resistance, and were beaten only by forward passes. Citadel's forward passing, it will be remembered, was largely responsible for their scoring on D.C. The Charleston papers gave Wofford credit for putting up a hard game and fight. The Wofford team has had rather an unfortunate season. They have lost five and won one game up until November 1st. According to comparative scores, the Wofford game should result in a comparatively easy victory for the fighting Red and Black, but all who attend may be prepared to see a steadily played game in which Davidson will have to play real football to score their fourth victory.