The DAVIDSONIAN, November 22, 1916

Are You PREPARED With Dress Shoes for the Fall Social Functions, With TROT-MOCS for the slush of winter? GET IN LINE Gilmer-Moore Co. JOHNSON & POTTS Agents

Rumple “24-hour delivery” Gents’ Furnishings Just Received A New Line of Woolen Shirts, Ties, Socks, Arm Bands, Pants Supporters, Collars, Etc. from Belk Bros. Charlotte, N. C. Call at 67 Chambers and look this line over SPRATT Agent Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. Sayad & Douglas, Agents 7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 L. H. PATTERSON, Representative

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

The Ring-Tum-Phi—Washington & Lee won the annual Intercollegiate cross country meet by having a well-balanced team that won fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth places. The other colleges represented were Catholic University, Virginia, and Johns Hopkins.

The Cadet—A great hickory tree stands on the campus of the Virginia Military Institute which is claimed to have been standing when the college was founded in 1839. Clustered around it, therefore, are the countless associations which have endeared it to the hearts of many and gained for it the title of the “Sacred Guard Tree.”

The Athenaeum—Next year may see both Washington & Jefferson and the University of Pittsburgh on the football schedule of the University of West Virginia. Relations were broken on account of the attitude that those institutions took toward the eligibility of athletes who have played on teams considered preparatory schools in West Virginia but considered colleges by Pennsylvania colleges because teams play college schedules.

University of Wisconsin—A Co-ed has registered to take military drill at the University of Wisconsin. As far as known, this is the first instance of its kind in American colleges.

The Trinity Chronicle—Announcement has been made that the sixth annual Declamation Contest will be held under the auspices of the 9019, a scholarship and patriotic fraternity at Trinity College, on December 1st. All preparatory and high schools of approved standing in North Carolina and neighboring States are invited to send representatives.

Guilford College—The Guilford Debating Council has recently announced that the arrangements for an inter-collegiate debate for this year have been practically perfected with A. & M. College. The debate is to be staged in Greensboro, at the Normal College, the date being fixed for February 17th. The query which will be discussed is: Resolved, That the Federal Government should own and operate the interstate railways of the United States.

The Vanderbilt Hustler—The

ARBOR DAY CELEBRATION BY LOCAL SCHOOL

On Saturday of last week, the local celebration of Arbor Day, postponed from the 18th of the month, was held by the town school. The exercises opened with the school assembled on the front of the grounds. Mr.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Erwin led in prayer. The first number rendered was "Arbor Day," sung by the entire school. The remarks that were the feature of the morning were made by Professor Arbuckle, his subject being "Trees." His discussion of this subject was very instructive and interesting and greatly enjoyed. Following this, the song "Joy to the Sturdy Trees" was sung by the school. Miss Withers' class began the planting by setting out a splendid maple, after which they performed an attractive arboral dance. Seven trees, including several fine water oaks, were then planted. This brought the exercises to a close. Dr. Martin states that classes will not be suspended December 8th, but will go right up to the examinations.

Dr. S: Freshman: "Where is Syene located?" "On the Yukon river, in Egypt, where the British Government is constructing cataracts."

The Debating Council at Vanderbilt University recently convened and organized for the year. Challenges were read at the meeting from many of the leading universities and colleges and although no debates have been arranged yet, negotiations are in progress for at least one triangular debate with Vanderbilt and two of the other larger Southern universities participating.

The Old Gold and Black—Students

The Atelo-Niorh Co., 1918

ATTENTION COLLEGE BOYS

WINSTON HIGH SCHOOL TO PLAY HERE FRIDAY

The football team of the Winston-Salem High School will play a game on Sprunt Field Friday afternoon with a team composed of scrubs and third team men. Winston is a strong contender for the prep championship of the State this year, and has had a very successful season. The game will be called at 3 o'clock and no doubt will be close and exciting. It is hoped a large crowd will be present to witness the conflict. Any courtesies that can be shown the visiting team on the part of the Davidson students to make their stay attractive will be appreciated and worthwhile, as the players are high school men and all possible students of Davidson.

Full Line of Chase & Sanborn Coffee and Tea

New Lot Men's Shoes

Armour Bros. Thompson

At Wofford College, advocate the substitution of a thorough course in Physiology, Anatomy, and Hygiene in our colleges for men and women in place of Mineralogy, Psychology, Calculus, etc. "We have in the college racks about all the fodder we can attend to at present, but couldn't a better quality of fodder be substituted for some that we are now nibbling at?"

The Tar Heel—The enrollment in the North Carolina High School Debating Union has more than doubled in the last ten days. Over 80 high schools have now entered this contest, the finals of which will be debated at the University of North Carolina.

Drs. Martin and Arbuckle represented Davidson last week at the Conference of Southern Colleges, held in Durham.

We will refund all Davidson College students their railroad fare to Winston-Salem, N.C. and return who make purchases of $25.00 or more. Fare one way on $15.00

BOYLES BROS. One of the Largest Clothiers in the Carolinas

REIDSVILLE, N.C. WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

---