The DAVIDSONIAN, October 11, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE MONEY

Let your next Shoes be

THE FORUM

THE DETERMINING FACTOR

The Student Body, almost to a unit, saw the Davidson warriors administer defeat to the Aggies on last Saturday, and
not a few are offering the reasons why. The victory was due, you say, to the united efforts of the
whole team. Yes, that’s true. Each man fought heroically; but, in going back to the ultimate cause, let us not
forget the coaching of “Bill” Fetzer. Neither before the game was there a bulletin issued from the Davidson camp announcing
what the team would do, nor was there one after it telling what it had done—but we all saw the
result.

What I am going to say is this: Davidson has a coach who places clean sports above the alternative of
winning or losing a particular game. The treatment which the Aggie players received at the hands of their coach between
halves at the game in Charlotte Saturday must be condemned by all lovers of true sport. Davidson's record for clean
sport is one that is unsurpassed, and her present coach, W. M. Fetzer, is one of the staunchest advocates of
the all-around clean game that Davidson has ever had.

REWnor.

Gilmer-Moore’s
Charlotte, N. C.
Call on our representative at Davidson and be convinced

WE SELL
Schiess Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00
Styleplus, Guaranteed Suits and Overcoats, $17.00
Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles
Ralston Health and Reynolds Shoes
Lion Shirts and Collars
See two special men’s union suits at 98¢ and $1.50

PROFESSOR SECURED FOR BIOLOGY CLASSES

Dr. Martin's efforts to secure someone to take charge of the Biology classes in the absence of Dr. J. W.
McConnell have at last been successful. Dr. R. H. Lafferty, of Charlotte, formerly professor of Biology in the North Carolina
Medical College for a number of years, will meet the classes in Biology twice a week, on Monday and Wednesday,
until Dr. McConnell is able to secure his release from the National Guard and return to college. Dr. Lafferty met
the classes Monday morning for the first time. He is an experienced teacher, and the college is to be congratulated
on securing his services. This arrangement makes necessary a change in the schedule of recitations.

BELK BROTHERS
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Quickest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
Sayad & Douglas, Agents

MANDOLIN AND GUITAR CLUB ORGANIZED

A Mandolin and Guitar Club was recently organized under the leadership of J. L. Fowle. This club will consist of
about fifteen men. About ten men will play the mandolins while the remainder will play guitars. This organization will be
under the direction of the Orchestra and Glee Club, and some of its men will be used in the latter.
There are a number of good musicians in the Freshman class. All who can use these musical instruments are urged
to come to the first practice, which will be announced soon at chapel. Clubs of this nature have been inaugurated
in other colleges and it is hoped that it will meet with equally as great a success at Davidson.

Fellows—If you are getting up a Feed—Stop in and see S. C. Scofield
Best line of Fruit, Candy, Peanuts, Etc., in town

A recent report from Washington states that the present post office building for Davidson has been leased for a period
of five years beginning January 7, 1917, or on the date improvements are completed. The lease includes the building and
all of the equipment.

Let Tobe JohnsonPress Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job: Six suits for $1.00
Student—I don’t know. What time do you get up?—Princeton Tiger.
Dean—Have you ever been up before?

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

The Old Gold and Black—A statewide campaign has been started to raise $300,000 for the three Methodist colleges—Wofford, Columbia, and
Lander. The citizens of Spartanburg, to show their appreciation of Wofford College and their interest in its progress, are undertaking
to raise $56,000, and the students of Wofford believe they will succeed.

The Tar-heel—Several new departments have been instituted in the paper of the University of North Carolina. Among these is to
be one entitled “Eavesdroppings and Interviews,” another is to be extracts from Dr. Battle's history, and another is to be
a department where the students can express themselves, either praising or blaming a practice or custom on the campus.

The Trinity Chronicle—The Southern Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools will hold its annual meeting at Trinity College, November 16th
and 17th, and an elaborate program will be carried out during its session. At the meeting, questions that pertain to
the promotion of interests common to colleges and preparatory schools will be discussed.

Converse was made that the Southern Intercollegiate Prohibition contest would be held in Spartanburg, in the Converse College auditorium, Saturday
night, October 7th. Representatives from all the Southern States will take part in the contest.

Wake Forest College—A piece of land has been bought for the new athletic field and plans are now being formulated
whereby money can be secured to begin active work on the field and to equip it properly.

Orange and Blue—A five-year contract has been closed between the athletic authorities of Auburn and Georgia Tech which insures the
staging of a football game between Auburn and Tech in Atlanta on Thanksgiving Day. The contract begins with the season
of 1916 and runs through the football season of 1920.

The Spectator—The attendance at the Industrial Institute and College of Mississippi is the largest in its history, nearly nine hundred
students having enrolled. On account of the diminution of teachers living in the dormitories and also on account of the
large number of under-classmen, ten Seniors have been appointed as official chaperones.

The Ring-Tum Phi—The Sophomores defeated the Freshmen at Washington & Lee in their annual Push Ball rush by a count
of 40 to 0. This takes the place of hazing to a large extent. The Masonic club was recently reorganized,
and all men who had had any work in Masonry were cordially invited to be present.

DAVIDSON HIGH SCHOOL DEFEATED BY VISITORS

In a hotly contested game on Sprunt Athletic Field, Huntersville High defeated the Davidson High School boys Saturday afternoon by
a score of 13 to 0. The ball was carried across Davidson’s goal line first by Smith, and again by
Ranson. Goal was kicked by Carter on his second attempt. Cross, Craven, and Smith starred for the visitors. For the
locals, Brown, Cathey, Johnston, and Shelton all played fine ball.

IT WILL PAY YOU TO SEE OUR LINE of Crush Hats & Caps
Styles and colors up-to-the-minute
CALL AND SEE THEM
Armour Bros. & Thompson

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN — Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop: CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts

27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
New Line of Haberdashery and Shoes
We appreciate your trade
