i) The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Wood
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. W. Harrison, H. A. Campbell, T. C. Stone, W. J. Huneycutt, R. R. Craig, R. M. Calhoun, C. Howell, Jr., N. Morton, E. R. Boney, O. C. Williamson, H. K. Aiken, E. A. Woods.

MANAGEMENT:
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber

Assistant Managers:
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

The Davidson football team is famous not only because its members fight like tigers and run like cats, and tackle like thunderbolts, and hold like bulldogs, not only because they scrap till the last minute, winning or not, not only because they "outplay both on offensive" heavier teams, and not only because they have one of the best of coaches, but because they play clean ball, a gentleman's game, because out of the game they impress everyone as gentlemen.

The following is an extract of a letter written by Mr. W. G. Perry, an alumnus of Davidson, now a Professor of English in Georgia Tech.:

Before these lines reach you, the Davidson-Georgia Tech game will have been a thing of the dimming past: the team will have returned to the home campus and will have told you such details as their modesty may permit; you will have read accounts of the game in Atlanta papers that they have carried home with them. You will know how "a Little Red Team that knew how to die, but not to surrender" (I quote from my morning paper) met a team reckoned the strongest, or among the strongest, in the South, representing a college twice the size of Davidson and outweighing the Davidson team almost twenty pounds per man, and lost by a lone touchdown and a ragged safety. To know all this, however, is to know nothing of the game.

"No such form before midseason, and rarely on Turkey day itself, has ever been manifested as was the work of Davidson Saturday." "To beat a team of the calibre of Davidson is an honor of which any team should be proud." Thus speaks Morgan Blake in the Sunday "Journal." When a "home" paper writes such words of a "foreign" athletic team, there must be unusually good cause.

Were it merely a question of playing the game well, there were reason enough among Davidson men for pride in their team; but there was something more, far more, important. It was a game played by gentlemen—clean, fair, sportsmanlike. That is the thing I heard emphasized in the grandstand, among the crowd leaving the grounds, by a group of men going up in an elevator with me.

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 25, 1916

"I can trust those fellows to observe their pledges and behave themselves as absolutely when I am away from them as when I have them under my eye," I heard Coach Fetzer say; and I believe him. This is the second consecutive year that Davidson has sent a team of this kind to play in Atlanta; as long as the college has such men to play football, and such a man to coach these men, the name of the college is in good hands. I had the pleasure and privilege to sit in their company at a little dinner following the game, where alumni and future alumni met; and I was proud that those clean-cut young fellows and I claimed the same Alma Mater.

Both the students and the faculty of Davidson College ought to know what Atlanta thinks of their football team, in case they fail to realize just what it means to the college. I think itpossible that you may be able to cull for reprinting a passage or two from the Atlanta papers which I am sending you, especially that fine tribute to “Bill” Fetzer which the Journal publishes. Cordially your friend, William Gilmer Perry.

MRS. WILSON GRATEFUL FOR COPY OF ANNUAL
October 18, 1916.

To “The Boys” of Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

I am asking The Davidsonian to communicate to you Mrs. Wilson’s letter in toto because it is a more splendid expression of appreciation than I could couch in words. The reference is to the copy of “Quips and Cranks” which was sent to Mrs. Wilson in the name of the class of 1916 and “the boys” of Davidson College.

Sincerely yours,
LeRoy A. Mullen.

The President's Cottage
Elberon, New Jersey

My Dear Mr. Mullen:

I am deeply touched by the generous thought which prompted “the boys” of Davidson College to send me so beautiful a copy of the yearbook. Will you not express to them my warm appreciation—and say with what pleasure I read their loyal and splendid tribute to the President expressed in the Dedication. The book came yesterday, so I hasten to thank you for your letter and the good wishes it brought.

With regards, in which the President joins, believe me,
Cordially and sincerely yours,
Edith Bolling Wilson.
October 17, 1916.

SENIORS DEFEAT FRESH IN CLASS BASKETBALL

In the third game of the class basketball series, played last Friday night, the Seniors overwhelmed the Fresh by the score of 50 to 20. The Fresh were outclassed in all stages of the game and at no time did they have any chance of winning. The individual stars were Murray for the Seniors and Hall for the Fresh.

SENIORS. POSITION. FRESH.
Young .......... Hall left forward
Price .......... McClerkin right forward
Henderson ...... Withers center
Murray ......... Chalmers right guard
Keesler ......... Craig left guard

Substitutions—For Fresh: Worth for Withers. Time: 35 minutes. Referee: Hengeveld.

Best line of Tennis Goods, Foot

By their FRUITS ye shall know them---
Freshest, Ripest

L. A. ELLIOTT

GOOD PRINTING CONSISTS OF MORE THAN INK, TYPE & PAPER

While there is nothing mysterious about the process, it requires, among other things, good judgment, taste, and a desire to keep ahead or above the average. The goodness of printing is governed by the printer’s equipment plus his ability to use it. We have a generous supply of both and are constantly adding to them. Our line embraces all kinds and classes of work, but we prefer to do the better kind. If you desire the best in any class we can meet your requirements, and guarantee to please you.

“Every Job A Good One"
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

W. H. NEAL, Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY

You can write on CORONA
The personal writing machine

Ball Clothes, Pennants, Etc.
Come in and let us prove it to you
J. E. Crayton & Co.
217 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.

A New Line of College Jewelry
Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc.
Torrence's Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN:
We are here to serve you. Come in. We are always glad to see you
Sanitary Barber Shop
E. R. Jenks, Proprietor

Ashby-2½" Lexicon-2½"
FOR 18 cts. each, 6 for 90 cts.
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC.

...says the Good Book. We sell the Fruits to be had... good to eat all the time

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes
:: General Merchandise ::
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

The Southern Serves the South

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
:: Fruits and Candies ::
FANCY GROCERIES

R. B. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.