Goodrum & Co. There is where you get the latest styles in Caps, Shoes, Neckwear, Underwear, and Interwoven Sox. Ivory
Garters.

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service

TOBE JOHNSON
16 years at same place

New Line of

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 12, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE MONEY.

Let Your Next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s

Misenheimer & Payne, Agts. No. 4 Watts

Lion Brand Collars, Shirts, Socks, Handkerchiefs, Ties, Anything to Wear

BELK BROTHERS

McClure Agent

WEEKLY MEETINGS.

Ladies’ & Children’s Shoes Consisting of Grover's and Shelley's, are open for your inspection, and are splendid values. Come in
and let us fit you up for the whole family.

Armour Bros. & Thompson

GOOD COAL
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with Cashier of Bank.

C.L. GREY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

C.C. BROWN
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Interior Decorator
Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South.

The regular debate of the Eumenean Society on the evening of April 8th displayed much oratory and heat but very
few real arguments, as was brought out in the reviewer's speech. Jenkins, Orgain, J. P. Williams, and Mullen upheld the
affirmative of the subject: “Resolved, That Germany is justified in using her methods of warfare.” Their chief argument seemed to
be that as Germany was bottled up on all sides and was fighting for her very life, she was justified
in using any means to preserve her existence. The negative was upheld by Honeycutt, Potts, W. J. Morrison, and W.
A. Johnson, who argued that Germany is breaking the Hague treaty by her actions, and cited many incidents of Germany's
cruelty. As the reviewer said, only two arguments were backed up with proof, one by Potts and the other by
Mullen, and added that not enough preparation had been given to the debate. The decision of the judges was in
favor of the negative.

In the meeting Monday morning, F. M. Mitchell and W. G. Morrison gave orations, and C. B. Robson and E.
A. Woods gave declamations. The speeches were good. On Monday morning, April 17th, the election of the last term officers
will be held in the Eumenean Society. Also, the new Magazine staff and the debating council will be elected. All
members are urged to be present.

The first meeting in the Phi Society for two weeks was held Saturday night. The walls have received a fresh
coat of “flat coat,” which has greatly improved the appearance of the hall. The meeting was well attended and the
debate was interesting. The query read: “Resolved, That Germany is justifiable in her methods of warfare.” The affirmative was upheld
by C. W. Worth, Stone, Cumming, Murray, and Knox. Their chief arguments were that Germany is in a life and
death struggle, and that the atrocities of the soldiers are incidents, not methods of warfare. The negative was upheld by
D. Monroe, Nisbet, and Reese. They argued that Germany had gone back to the middle ages in her methods of
warfare. They proved that the aircraft raids and submarine warfare were atrocities and were Germany's methods of warfare. Although the
debate was good on both sides, the judges rendered their decision in favor of the negative.

Monday morning declamations were given by Currie and Faires. McIntire gave a talk on Thomas Mott Osborne, warden of Sing
Sing. Carson talked upon “The Significance of Villa’s Raid.” D. Monroe upon “Steps Toward International Peace.” D. I. McKeithen made
the last speech of the meeting.Subject being “The Submarine.” In each of the literary societies Monday morning, there was presented
a plan for the improvement of the Davidson College Magazine. The committee, after a consultation with Dr. Fulton, reported the
plan as follows: “The staff shall consist of six members, the editor-in-chief with two assistants, and the business manager with
two assistants, instead of twelve members as at present. “The editor-in-chief will continue to be elected alternately from the two
societies. This proposed change has necessitated a change in the constitution of the societies. It was passed in the Eumenean
Society, but according to the constitution of the Philanthropic, it has to lie on the table for two weeks. The
members of the staff will be elected at the next election in the societies.”

VIRGINIA-TENNESSEE CLUB HAS BANQUET

Despite the seeming opposition of the weather, on last Wednesday evening the Virginia-Tennessee Club held their second semi-annual banquet in
the Social Center. L.A. Chambliss acted as toastmaster and twenty-three members of the club were in attendance. Several short talks
were made by different members. Among those speaking were Dr. Sentelle, Professor Woods, and R. C. Jones, J. R. Woods,
L.H. Patterson, F. E. Fowlkes, and J. P. Williams. The question of securing new students and members for next year
was also discussed and preparations were begun for a membership campaign. A. P. Saunders and L. A. Chambliss were chosen
as leaders for Virginia and Tennessee respectively.

CITY SCHOOL HONOR ROLL

The following is a list of the honor students for the month of March in the local graded school:

Tenth Grade—None.
Ninth Grade—John Barnette.
Eighth Grade—McDowell Richards, Viola Johnson, Eloise Martin, Sarah Lingle.
Seventh Grade—Sarah Hamilton, Wilburn Thompson, Annie Lois Barnette, Elizabeth Cranford.
Sixth Grade—Martha Hamilton, Alex McMillan, Emily Weddington, Max Kale.
Fifth Grade—No names on account of absences.
Fourth Grade—Sophie Richards, Joe McConnell, Eustace Lingle, Thomas Hamilton, Hugh Cashion, James W. Fleming, Henderson, Car Grey, Robert McMillan, Richard
Grey.

“Preparedness”

We are prepared to furnish on the shortest notice the best that is to be had in Printing. Let J.
H. CARSON, our Davidson representative, quote you prices.

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet
Music.

213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Third Grade—Howard Arbuckle, Robert Thompson, Henrie Miller, Sarah Barnette, Thomas Lathery, Ellen Torrence, Lena Stillwell, Anna Brown, Erma Lee Hartsoe.
Second Grade—Riggs William Hall, David Edwards, Shumaker, Fermille Justice, Thompson, James Robbins.
First Grade—Mary Andrews, Mary Grace Brown, Cynthia Fleming, Murray McConnell, James Louise Fidler, Jack Mooney, Robert D. Mooney, Johnsie Sloop,
Archie Williams.

STATEMENT

Of the Ownership, Management, Circulation, Etc., Required by the Act of August 24, 1912, of The Davidsonian, published weekly at
Davidson, N. C., for April 1, 1916: Editor, P. B. Price, Davidson, N. C.; Managing Editor, J. A. Thames, Davidson,
N. C.; Business Manager, W. H. Neal, Davidson, N. C.; Publisher, Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., Charlotte, N. C.; Owners, Students
of Davidson College; No capital stock.

W. H. Neal, Business Mgr.
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 3rd day of April, 1916.
W. H. Thompson, Notary Public.
