The VAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. Athletic Prospects Very Favorable Athletic Regulations Copied From Catalogue.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1916.
September 30—Davidson vs. University of Va., at Charlottesville.
October 7—Davidson vs. A. & M., at Charlotte, N. C.
October 14—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech., at Atlanta, Ga.
October 21—Davidson vs. Citadel, at Davidson.
October 28—Davidson vs. Roanoke College, at Roanoke, Va.
November 4—Davidson vs. Furman, at Greenville, S. C.
November 11—Davidson vs. University of N. C., at Winston-Salem, N. C.
November 18—Game Probably Wofford.
November 30—Davidson vs. Clemson, at Charlotte.

The football prospects at this time are most favorable. All of last year's team, with the exception of A. M.
McKeithan, who graduated last spring, will be in college the coming year. Coach Fetzer, who has been in charge of
the boys’ summer camp near Brevard, N. C., will return to Davidson next week. Active practice will begin with the
opening of college or perhaps even earlier. In addition to such a wealth of old material, much new material, out
of the extra large class that enrolls this fall, is sure. Not until near the time of the first game
will the personnel of next year's team be known. All candidates for the team, both old and new, are put
on an equal footing. It should be said that every football team should have two or three men who can
play any Varsity position well, so the number of openings for candidates is large whenever this fact is taken into
consideration.

Next year’s team will be captained by B. N. White, who for the past two years has played a brilliant
game at center. Fight and “pep” he has to an unusual degree. A. B. Reese will manage the 1916 delegation.
The schedule as printed above calls for several hard games early in the season. The first three teams which Davidson
meets are usually contestants for All-South Atlantic honors. The one radical change from the schedule of previous years is the
Thanksgiving game. For the past six years Davidson has met Wake Forest in Charlotte for the Turkey Day contest. This
year she meets Clemson, a team which she has tied for the past two years.

Below is given a copy of the athletic regulations now in force at Davidson:
1. No one shall represent Davidson College in any athletic contest except under the following conditions:
(a) He must satisfy the Faculty Committee on Athletics that he is a bona fide student of the college, and
that he is taking at least twelve hours per week on class of regular college courses, and that he is
maintaining the (Continued on page 4)

New Men Welcomed By Y. M. C. A.
A Warm Reception Awaits New Students.

To the Class of ‘20:
The cabinet and members of the Y. M. C. A. take this opportunity to extend to you a cordial welcome
to the student body and to assure you that we are at your service in any way that may be
desired. Knowing the confusion which is always attendant upon the opening of college and realizing that you are strangers in
a strange place, the Y. M. C. A. has a regular committee whose members will meet the incoming trains and
will conduct you to the campus where they will assist you in getting registered, and then show you to your
rooms in the respective dormitories. This committee will be composed of men who have been in college for several years
and who will be able to give you accurate information. Members of this committee will wear badges at the trains
so that you may identify them.

On the Monday after college opens there will be held in Shearer Hall a rally meeting of the student body
at which the different phases of student activities on the campus will be taken up and outlined for the benefit
of the new men. This is intended to give them information about the departments of college life with which all
of the students come in contact throughout the year. Each of these topics will be discussed by men who have
taken a leading part in Athletics, the Y. M. C. A., The Davidsonian, the Magazine, the Annual, the Literary Societies,
the Student Body government, etc. Immediately following this meeting a reception will be given to the new class. The members
of the faculty and a number of the people of the town will be present and an opportunity will be
given each man to become acquainted.

As soon as possible after the first rush of opening, the Y. M. C. A. is planning to take up
the work that has been outlined for the coming year. This will consist of work in the territory surrounding Davidson
as well as in the town itself, and will comprise maintenance of Sunday schools, night schools, surveys, and extension work,
as well as committee work on the campus, weekly religious meetings on Thursday nights, and the maintenance of a Social
Center which serves as a lounging room for the students where they may read, study, or enjoy games and music.

Each of you is coming to college in order to equip yourself for life and to acquire what is termed
an education. In order that this education may be as broad and of as satisfying a character as possible it
must be of the kind which educates the mind, the body, and the spirit, the three component parts of the
human being, whoever he may be. The college curriculum offers an opportunity for the development of the mind, the athletic
field an opportunity for the development of the body, and the Y. M. C. A. an opportunity for the development
of the spiritual side. The work of which the Y. M. C. A. has charge offers an opportunity for practical
work (Continued on page 4)DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., AUGUST 25, 1916.

Interesting Letter Timely Information For New Students No. 1 to Old Men President Martin Writes Frankly Dr. Martin Writes Appreciatively
Letter to Class of 1919.

You, who are expecting to enter Davidson College next month for the beginning of your college course, will be interested
to hear that your class promises to be a large one. Up to date, more new students than ever before
in the same period of time have been accepted. Let nothing interfere with your coming, if your certificate has been
approved. The college was never better equipped to serve you and much has been done this summer to improve the
plant and make it more efficient.

Be sure to come on time. Late entrance badly handicaps a student, and, unless it is necessary, all new students
should be here to matriculate on Tuesday, the 5th of September, as there will be some congestion on Wednesday, the
6th. It is well to have a day to look about, get your bearings, and become settled.

Committees from the student organizations will meet you at the trains and aid you in finding your rooms. They will
direct you to Mr. Jackson, the Business Manager, to whom you will pay your dues and secure your room key.
You then report at the President's office for matriculation. We shall be glad to welcome you and have you share
with us all the advantages, opportunities, and pleasures that the college offers. Come prepared to do your best during the
entire year and to make the right start to that end, and you will find that Faculty and old students
alike will appreciate your earnestness and honor you for it.

Please understand that I shall always be glad to see you and talk over with you any problems of interest,
which you would like me to consider with you. I am entirely at your service. This is true of each
member of the Faculty as well. Hoping and expecting to meet you at the opening, I am,

Sincerely yours,
W. J. Martin, President.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB.

The manager of the College Orchestra and Glee Club wishes to ask all of the new men who play any
musical instrument to bring the same with them and to answer the call for practice which will be issued soon
after college opens. This organization is composed strictly of Davidson students and furnishes the music for entertainments on the Hill,
Senior and Junior Speaking, and Commencement. In addition, several trips throughout parts of North and South Carolina are taken each
year. The manager states that two good trips are already planned and that there may be other short ones during
the year. All men who can play a musical instrument will be given an opportunity to make a place in
the organization. There will be regular hours for practice.

To the old students: Have your courses been so grouped that you are sure of a diploma? Examine the catalog.
New student? Read the catalog. Old student? Peruse the catalog. We trust you have thoroughly enjoyed your vacation and will
come back refreshed and invigorated for a good college year. Everyone united in expressing the belief that last year was
one of the most satisfactory in the history of the college. We hope you will help to make this a
better year still. Some changes were introduced in the Student Body government and some others go into effect this year;
let every man do his part in making them effective for good to the whole body and to the individual
student.

It will pay you before you come to make a forecast of the coming year and plan to get the
most and the best out of it. First, what tickets you will take, selecting them if possible with reference to
your life work; how you will order your life so that each day’s work will be thoroughly and promptly done,
and how all proper student activities which widen your interest and give you valuable experience may be so interlaced with
the classwork as not to interfere with this, the most important feature of your college course. Second, of what service
you may be to your fellow student to help him make the best use of his college opportunity. Especially should
this be true of your attitude towards all new students. Recall your own sense of strangeness and your difficulty of
the first three months in adjusting yourself to your work. Recall how any assistance or thoughtful suggestion of an older
brother in the college body helped you and how you possibly were hampered (it may be seriously so) by the
thoughtlessness of some of the older men. We all want the new students to succeed from the start. If they
do, the chances are decidedly in favor of their staying through the whole four years. This increases the value of
the college to them and their value to the student body and increases the number of students. Too many drop
out discouraged by the first two months. The old students can do much as elder brothers, to make this class
quite materially smaller and so make glad many a home.

Before you return then give quiet and serious thought to both these problems: How can I get the best out
of this college year, and what can I do or not do to be the most help possible to the
younger men in college? If we will all plan our year’s life in this way and live up to it,
old Davidson will reach a new high-water mark in effective service to the splendid body of young men who enlist
under her banner.

A cordial welcome awaits you.
W. J. Martin.

FORMER STUDENTS RETURNING

Their friends will be interested to know that the following men who dropped out of their respective classes for a
year or more will re-enter Davidson this fall: J. C. Watkins, G. P. Scott, E. H. Hamilton, R. E. Hughes,
O. C. Williamson, J. T. Maddry.
