The DAVIDSONIAN, November 8, 1916:

WITH THE ALUMNI:

A letter from F. W. Price, ‘15, from Nanking, China, gives the following information about Davidson men who are now
in China:

S. B. Woods, ‘14, (“Chink”) has for the past year been stenographer at the Union Theological Seminary in Nanking, and
is now employed in the China Realty Co., with offices at Shanghai. While in Nanking, he organized a baseball team
at the seminary and is now one of the stars of the Shanghai team.

Rev. D. W. Richardson, ‘02, holds the position of principal of the Mission High School at Chinkiang, China. As a
motto for the school, the Davidson motto, “Alenda lux ubi orta libertas,” is used.

W. Plummer Mills, ‘03, is engaged in Y. M. C. A. work in the city of Peking. Probably the oldest
Davidson alumnus on the China field is Rev. J. W. Davis, D.D., who went out in 1873. He is a
graduate of the class of ‘69. At present, he is engaged in evangelistic work and in the translation of the
Bible into local dialects.

G. A. Hadson, ex-‘17, who about a year ago went out to the China field for a period of two
years, is assisting the principal of the Kashing Mission High School, Rev. Lowry Davis. Hadson also has charge of two
hundred Government School students in athletics, and during last spring started tennis and baseball teams and also trained two pond
rowing crews.

F. W. Price, ‘15, is teaching classes in the Nanking School of Theology, in the Foreign School in that city,
and in addition is teaching a class of fifteen in Greek in the University. During the past summer vacation, he
spent one week at a Chinese summer Y. M. C. A. conference, somewhat similar to the Southern Conference at Blue
Ridge. A month was spent also at Mokanshan, the Montreat of China, where he acted as Scout Master for a
group of twenty-eight “lively heathen American boys.”

Davidson men who have been in college within the past four years will be interested in the following account of
the work of Murphy Currie, of Fayetteville, N.C., who entered college with the present class but who has since left:
“Murphy Currie, for a time a member of the Raleigh North Carolina League team last spring, now a moundsman on
the St. Louis Nationals, is at home after a month's experience as a big leaguer. Currie’s rise is one of
the most rapid on record. He jumped from the Cape Fear League to the majors in three months.” “Murph,” while
in college here, was one of the Varsity mainstays, and numbers of the students remember his stellar work on many
occasions.

DR. McGEACHY TO SPEAK TOMORROW NIGHT:

Those who had the pleasure of hearing Dr. A. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte, speak last year on “The Double Standard,”
will be glad to learn that he will be the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. meeting tomorrow night
at 7 o'clock. He has chosen as his subject “The Modern Tower of Babel,” and a large audience is urged
at this time to hear the address.

On November 23rd, Dr. Seerly, of Springfield, Mass., a member of the International Council, will lecture on “Sex Hygiene and
Education,” at the Y. M. C. A. meeting. Details in regard to the lecture will be announced later.

Are YOU Going to Winston?

Realizing the need for proper training of the boys for useful citizenship and wishing to promote their interests, the college
Y. M. C. A. has decided to organize the boys of the town into organizations looking towards this end, these
organizations to be directed by members of the student body. The first of these organizations is the Boy Scouts, which
is well and favorably known throughout the country. Davidson Troop No. 1 was organized last Tuesday afternoon at the local
school building, with an enrollment of twelve. At a second meeting on last Friday, the enrollment was increased to eighteen.
Another organization, known as the Pioneers of America, modeled on the lines of the Boy Scouts, is being planned for
the boys between the ages of nine and twelve. This organization is a national one and serves in the capacity
of a preparation for the Scout work. At present, Ko Fo Hermann, C.F.Allen, Clewell Howell, and C. W. Foreman are
in charge of these clubs, but there is a need for several more students. If there are any who can
take up this work, the Y.M.C.A. committee would be glad to get the names. C. F. Aues, K. F. Herwan.

WINSTON-SALEM CLUB ORGANIZED AT DAVIDSON

A Winston-Salem Club was recently organized at Davidson by the students attending the college from this city. It is represented
by seven men at Davidson this year, a larger number than in any previous year. The purpose of the club
is to "boost" and promote the interests of both the "Twin-City" and Davidson College. The club met last Saturday night
and had its first "feed" of the year, which was much enjoyed by all present. Three members have been added
to the delegation since the opening of college this fall, these being H.T. and I.G. Lilly, and J. A. Thames.
The members of the club and the officers are as follows: J. T. Maddrey, President; H. S. Lott, Vice-President; J.P.
Taylor, Jr., Secretary; J. A. Thames, Treasurer; C. H. Long, H. V. Lilly, E.G. Lilly.

A REVIEW OF THE MAGAZINE

The first issue of the Davidson Magazine is the best that the college has seen for some time, though very
deceiving in its looks. It looks like a copy of "Dr. Somebody's Almanac," but the contents of the Magazine are
pronounced by the students in general as being of the highest quality. The binding for this Magazine is not the
kind that was ordered, and it will be improved in the next issue. All the essays in this issue contain
some good thoughts and are well written. Especially to be mentioned is "The Place of College Publications," which gives a
very clear idea of the purpose of our different college papers. Among the stories, which are all vivid and interesting,
is "A Christmas Revelry," which, with its good negro dialect, is to be noticed as a story which could come
only from the magazine of a Southern college. The two poems in this issue are steps to greater things. The
great poets of the future must come from our colleges, and there is no reason why Davidson shouldn't produce some
of them. "Thoughts" by the Editor is worth reading and thinking over.

This organization is all is not to be had unless one knows Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. Geo.
C. Goodman & Co. Druggists Mooresville, N.C. Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality.

Ready-to-Wear Always the Same Price

Aside from the price feature, which is of course, our strongest bid for your patronage, the ability to clothe young
men—and particularly college men—with the style suits and overcoats they revel in, is the most appealing attribute of this shop.
We know what the young fellows like to wear, we know their tastes—their ideas of style—and we know what hard
service their clothes are usually put to. Our prices are the same, year in and year out, and in addition
to the style and service obtained in these clothes, you have the satisfaction of saving, at least, a five-dollar bill
on every purchase. We solicit the patronage of the boys of Davidson College, and promise in return more than value
received.

MILTON SMITH CLOTHES SHOPS 13 North Tryon St. Charlotte

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N.C.

REAL CONTENTMENT

Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent.

He LOOKS as well as he FEELS

We do not sponsor "Freak" styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in
good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Your business is solicited

John L. Douglas, Pres., H.W. Thompson, Cashier J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY

Is prepared to do printing for college men Prompt delivery Statesville, N.C.

Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK Give Us a Trial

DRINK Chero-Cola THERE'S NONE SO GOOD Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina You are cordially invited to inspect
our premises CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Rutledge & Norton Next Door to Post Office

If Not, Why Not?
