Go to Goodrum & Co. There is where you get the latest styles in Caps, Shoes, Neckwear, Underwear, and Interwoven
Sox. Ivory Garters.

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service

TOBE JOHNSON
16 years at same place

New Line of Ladies’ & Children’s Shoes
Consisting of Grover's and Shelley's, are open for your inspection, are splendid values. Come in and let us fit you
up for the whole family.

Armour Bros. & Thompson

GOOD COAL
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with Cashier of Bank.

C. L. GREY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

C. C. BROWN
CHARLOTTE :: N. C.
Interior Decorator
Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South.

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 16, 1916

Men Who Wear Good Shoes are always afforded standing room in the HALL OF FAME. Protect your feet from slander
by keeping them dressed up. Have you seen our $5.00 specialty?

Place Your Order Now For
GILMER-MOORE COMPANY
Represented by MISENHEIMER & PAYNE

ALUMNI NOTES.

The Kassia Herald reports the arrival at Luebo, Africa, of Miss Kate Russell, who has gone out to become Mrs.
Plumer Smith; Mr. Smith is a Davidson man of class ’07.

Henry H. Cassady, ‘00, is preaching at Lancing, Tenn.

Mortimer Cosby, '12, is in the tobacco business with the Export Leaf Tobacco Co., Chatham, Va.

J. H. Clark, ‘07, is a merchant at Elizabethtown, N. C.

C. B. Craig, ‘11, is co-pastor of Reidsville Presbyterian church, which is his first charge. He was graduated from Union
Seminary last May.

McAllister Carson, '13, is in the insurance department of Independence Trust Co., Charlotte, N. C.

J. H. Caldwell, ’12, is practicing medicine in Charlotte, N. C.

H. E. Caldwell, ‘14, is bookkeeper for the Oil Mill at Winnsboro, S. C.

G. H. Cornelson, '92, is a minister of the First Presbyterian church, No. 1912 State St., New Orleans, La.

W. B. Cochran, '02, is in the banking business at Mt. Gilead, N. C.

J. W. Chandler, ‘06, is manager of Lyon Furniture Mercantile Agency, High Point, N. C.

W. R. Clegg, '02, is an attorney with the firm, Clegg and Clegg, Carthage, N.C.

J. C. Cooper, '87, is president of Mortgage Trust Co., Fayetteville, N.C.

W. E. Chambers, ’96, is located at 200 Tenth Ave., Charlotte, N. C.

R. C. Carson, ’87, Whiteville, N. C., has retired from active business.

H. L. Cathey, '06, is assistant pastor First Presbyterian church, Lynchburg, Va.

R. M. Crawford, ’87, is a merchant and farmer at Lyerly, Ga.

W. R. Cely, ‘07, is bank cashier at Greenville, S. C.

W. L. Campbell, '86, is a manufacturer and merchant at Salisbury, N. C.

R. L. Cowan, ’70, is a physician near Salisbury, N. C.; address, R. F. D. 2.

W. A. Crinkley, ’96, is a manufacturer of brick and lumber at Lawrenceville, Va. A graduate of U. N. C.
in 1897.

S. L. Cathey, '95, is a minister at Mount Holly, N.C.

D. G. Caldwell, '84, is a physician at Concord, N. C.

T. D. Crawford, '82, is a lawyer at Little Rock, Ark.

J. E. Cousar, '85, is farming at Bishopville, S.C.

J. E. Carson, ’82, is at Asheboro, N. C.

G. H. Craig, '86, is president of Peoples’ Cotton Oil Co., Selma, Ala.

J. L. Carpenter, Jr., '13, is a druggist at Greenville, S. C.

C. S. Clifford, '96, is with the General Electric Co., No. 30 Church St., New York City.

J. C. Chambers, '51, is farming at York, S.C.; R. F. D. 5.

J. C. Cooper, '15, is with the Henderson Cotton Mills, Henderson, N. C.

C. T. Carr, ’08, is principal of the city schools, 143 Montford Ave., Asheville, N.C.

T. B. Crayton, '15, is athletic director at Fishburne Military Academy, Waynesboro, Va.

Engraved Cards For Junior Speaking
See J. H. CARSON, our Davidson representative—he'll put you ‘‘next’’ to the nifty kind.

Watts R. S. Cromartie,‘95. Garland, N.C. E.R. Campbell, ‘14, is teaching in Charlotte; address, Y.M.C.A., South Tryon St. S.F. Chandler,
'84, is a minister at Kingsville, Tex. Ellis Cocke, ‘73, No. 413 Broadway, Nashville, Tenn., is a lawyer, practicing mainly
in all of the Federal Courts of the state; criminal cases a specialty; also in U.S. Circuit Court at Cincinnati,
O., and Supreme Court, Washington, D.C. W.B. Chandler, ‘07, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Live Oak, Fla. H.F. Cousins,
‘06, is a lawyer, No. 507 Miller Ave., Marion, Ind. J. McC. Caldwell, ‘71, is farming near Cornwall, S.C. G.H.
Cartledge, ‘11, is studying at Chicago University, with the intention of making teaching his life work. He is a physician
at the Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co., Charlotte, N.C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE

LOCAL POLITY CLUB IS BEING PLANNED

In 1910, there was established in Boston a World Peace Foundation which had for its object “the purpose of educating
the people of all nations to a full knowledge of the waste and destructiveness of war, its evil effects on
present social conditions and on the well-being of future generations, and to promote international justice and the brotherhood of man:
and generally by every practical means to promote peace and goodwill among all mankind.” As a part of the program
of the association, a number of prominent men are secured to lecture at many of the colleges and universities of
the country. In addition, there has been formed a student club movement in which there are organized at various colleges
clubs for the study and discussion of the subjects coming under the scope of the work of the foundation. Among
the colleges which have already organized these clubs are the following prominent institutions of the country: Amherst, Columbia, Cornell, Georgia,
Harvard, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Princeton, South Carolina, Virginia, Yale. Plans are now being made for the organization of such a club
at Davidson in the near future, definite arrangements for which will be announced later.

INTERESTING HISTORY.

A very interesting letter has been received by Miss Shaw from O.C. Williamson, a former student at Davidson, in which
he states that at his home they have the first Bible which was used in chapel exercises here, and also
one of the tools used in building Chambers building. Mr. Williamson has written about this matter on account of seeing
a notice of the collection which is being made by the Blue Pencil Club, and he has kindly offered to
add these articles to this collection. Mr. Williamson is now principal of the Laurel Hill High School, Laurel Hill, N.C.,
and the reports from that county show that he is making quite a success in his work. He has recently
been elected president of the Scotland County Teachers’ Association. Houston Brown, Jr., recently broke his arm in a fall from
a tree.

Charlotte, N.C. Special attention shown to Davidson men.

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N.C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

Y.M.C.A. MEETING.

J.P. Williams spoke on the subject, “The College Man and His Time,” before the Y.M.C.A. on last Thursday evening.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES.

Trinity—The sessions of the North Carolina Peace Society will be opened at Trinity College on Saturday, April 1. In connection
with the meeting, the annual State Peace Oratorical contest will be held. In the first and second years of the
contest, Trinity representatives won first prizes. Among the speakers for the session will be Dean G.W. Kirchway, president of the
National Peace Association.
