The DAVIDSONIAN, December 6, 1916

RED AND BLACK CLOSES

(Continued from page 1)

Burns 2 and C. Walker went through for the first touchdown. Grey failed at goal. Witsell kicked off to Keesler
on the 31-yard line, the latter returning 3. R. Walker punted over the goal line for a touchback. Witsell kicked
30 to Keesler, who fumbled, Davidson recovering, but Davidson was judged off-side on this play, and the ball was brought
back. Witsell punted 40 yards, Keesler returning 3. R. Walker punted 45 yards to Witsell, who fumbled, and C. Walker
recovered and ran 10 yards, being tackled from behind by Major. Black made 2. Burns made 10, but D. C.
was penalized 15 yards for holding. C. Walker made 3. Black lost 20 on an end run and D. C.
was again penalized 15 for holding. R. Walker punted over the goal line for a touchback. A bad pass lost
7 for Clemson. Banks made 7 through tackle. Major tried to punt but it was blocked and Clemson recovered. Banks
failed on two end runs. A fake play gained 5. Major kicked 40 yards out of bounds. R. Walker kicked
48 to Finley. Banks made 2. Major made 3. Adams failed. Major punted 40, Keesler returning 8. Score: D. C.,
6; Clemson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER.

Ball in mid-field. Burns made 6 through guard. Burns added another first down. Black failed and D. C. was penalized
15 for holding. R. Walker punted 40 yards out of bounds. Clemson's ball, 40-yard line. Banks made 2. Banks made
1. Forward pass failed. Major kicked over the goal line for a touchback. R. Walker kicked 40 out of bounds.
Clemson tried a pass, which was intercepted by Keesler, who returned 45 yards, placing the ball on Clemson's 15-yard line.
Black made 9, then carried it over for the second touchdown. Grey failed at goal. Major kicked off to C.
Walker on the goal line, who returned to his own 30-yard line. Burns made 4. R. Walker punted over the
goal line for a touchback. Adams made 2. Adams failed. Major kicked 48 yards to Keesler, who returned 3. R.
Walker kicked 45 yards out of bounds. Finley made 30. Pass failed. Major punted to Keesler on D. C.’s 20-yard
line, who returned 27. Line buck failed. Black went through the left side for 25 yards, but the referee ruled
that he had stepped outside after going 10 yards. Ball on the 42-yard line. Black made 12, Burns 5, and
then Black ran 25 yards for a touchdown. Grey kicked the goal. Grey kicked off to Banks on the goal
line, who returned 25. Major kicked 25 to Lawson, who had just taken Keesler’s place. Burns made 8. Black broke
through for a good gain, but fumbled and Clemson recovered. After one line play Major punted 30 yards to Lawson,
who returned 10. Burns made 6, Black 2. “Time up. Score: D. C., 19; Clemson, 0.

THIRD QUARTER.

Grey kicked off to Banks on the 8-yard line, who returned 23. Banks made 6 yards. Banks went through for
Clemson's first first down. Banks made 3 yards. Pass failed. Major kicked over the goal line. R. Walker kicked 55
yards to Witsell who returned 3. Banks made 5. Banks made the first down. Banks added another first down on
3 end runs. Major failed to gain. Pass failed. Major kicked over the goal line, but Davidson was judged off-side
and the ball was brought back. Banks on two tackle plays made the first down. Major made 1. Banks made
5. Armstrong made 4. Banks made the first down. Score: D. C., 19; Clemson, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER.

Ball near the center of the field. Armstrong made 2, Banks 4, and Paxton made it first down. Armstrong failed
and Clemson was penalized 15 for holding. Armstrong made 7 on two line bucks. Witsell punted over the goal line
for a touchback. Black on a fake ran for 35 yards, placing the ball on Clemson's 45-yard line. Pass to
R. Walker made 30, but the referee ruled that Lawson was not the required distance back of the scrimmage line
when he threw the ball. Another pass, Lawson to R. Walker, netted 20. Ball on the 25-yard line. Pass to
C. Walker failed. Lawson made 3. Black lost 3 on a fake. Pass to King made 18 yards. Burns made
2. A pretty pass, Lawson to King, over the goal line, made another touchdown.Ed goal. Lawson kicked off over the
goal line, making it Clemson’s ball on their 20-yard line. Paxton made 5. Clemson back fumbled and D.C. recovered, but
the referee ruled that the ball had been dead and returned the ball to Clemson. Banks made 3. Armstrong made
the first down. Banks made 3. Armstrong fumbled and D.C. recovered. Black made 28 on an end run. Laird made
1, but D.C. was penalized 5 for off-side. Two passes failed and Flowers tried a drop kick, which fell short.
Clemson's ball on the 20-yard line. Line play fails, but D.C. was penalized 5 for off-side. Armstrong made 1 and
followed with a 3-yard gain. Banks made 4. Pass failed. Witsell kicked 10 yards out of bounds. D.C.'s ball. Pass
fails. Pass to R. Walker netted 30 yards. Black breaks through for 10 yards and a touchdown. Flowers kicked the
goal. Flowers kicked off over the goal line. Clemson’s ball on the 20-yard line. Banks lost 1. Pass failed. Wallace
kicked 20 yards out of bounds and the game was over. Final score: Davidson, 33; Clemson, 0.

THE LINE-UP

Davidson, Position, Clemson.
R. Walker... ....DE 00... 00. Wiehl
Shaw. .......... LT... Matthews
Grey........... LG... Haiman
White (C)....... C... Gee
Savard......... RG... Poole
T. White........ RT... Harte
King............ RE... Brown
Keesler......... QB... Witsell
Black........... LH... Banks
C. Walker....... RH... Major (C)
Burns........... FB... Adams

SCORE BY PERIODS
Davidson . . . 6 13 0 14—Total 33
Clemson . . . 0 0 0 0—Total 0

Summary: Referee, Bocach, Georgetown; Umpire, Hodgson, V.P.I.; Head Time of periods, 15 minutes each. Touchdowns: Black, 3; C. Walker, King.
Goals from touchdown: Grey, Flowers, Lawson. Substitutions—Davidson: Paisley for Grey, Elliott for T. White, Flowers for C. Walker, Lawson for
Keesler, Spahn for Lawson, Laird for Burns, Mackorell for Laird. Clemson: Cannon for Matthews, Virnitz for Haiman, Haiman for Virnitz,
Thompson for Haiman, Alford for Harte, Finley for Witsell, Witsell for Finley, Ferguson for Witsell, Thaxton for Major, Armstrong for
Adams, Wallace for Armstrong.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB GIVE CONCERT

As has been the custom for many years, the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club gave a concert program at Queens
College Auditorium on Thanksgiving night. A very appreciative audience of about 300 was present. The entire program was excellent, especially
the solos by Fowle, who was “encored” several times, and the violin solos by Baker with piano accompaniment by Townsend.
Another special feature of the program was the quartet, composed of Shields, Lott, Townsend, and Fowle. They were called back
several times. The program was completed with the Davidson College song, “College Ties Can Ne’er Be Broken,” by the Glee
Club, and fifteen rahs for Queens. After the concert, the Davidson boys were given a reception by the Queens, where
all had a chance to make new acquaintances and to renew old ones. Punch was served, and all had a
most enjoyable time.

HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - - Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL STONEWALL, - - Charlotte, N.C.
HOTEL HUFFINE, - - Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL CENTRAL, - - Charlotte, N.C.

We cater to special trips for students. Special rates to Davidson men.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.

The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the
right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful, and obliging manner is always proffered to you.
Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town

Davidson Pressing Club
6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

JUST RECEIVED EXTENSIVE LINE
King Quality Shoes
New Models
LET US FIT YOU

J. P. SANDERS, President
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville
I. M. Patterson, College Representative
