The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Class Basketball Will Begin Friday
Close and interesting Series Promised--A Complete Schedule.

The fall season for basketball, which begins this week, bids fair to be one of the most interesting series ever
played here. The consistent practice of each of the teams seems to indicate that each class will put out a
strong quintette. The season will open Friday, October 13th, with a game between the Fresh and Juniors. The game will
no doubt be one of great interest as it will be a try-out of much new material against the champions
for the past two years. The season's schedule follows:

October 13th—Junior-Fresh.
October 16th—Senior-Soph.
October 20th—Fresh-Senior.
October 23rd—Soph-Junior.
October 27th—Senior-Junior.
October 30th—Fresh-Soph.
November 3rd—Junior-Fresh.
November 6th—Senior-Soph.
November 10th—Fresh-Senior.
November 13th—Soph-Junior.
November 17th—Senior-Junior.
November 20th—Fresh-Soph.

FRESHMEN LECTURE DELIVERED BY KEESLER

The regular semi-monthly lecture to Freshmen was given last Friday morning by S. R. Keesler, ‘17, President of the Student
Body. In his subject, “Our Honor System,” Keesler explained the meaning of the word “honor,” and how it behooved not
only every Freshman, but every student, to have his honor stainless and above reproach. He impressed the fact that cheating
on review, recitation or examination was no less than theft and the worst crime that could be committed by a
student of Davidson, one that would cause expulsion sooner than anything else.

Some of the evils of gambling were analyzed. No student should lock himself and some of his fellow-students in his
room and gamble away the hard-earned money given him to get an education. The Freshmen were also warned not to
provoke hazing, to respect an upperclassman and be respected by him, not to leave the Hill without permission, and not
to deface or destroy college property, for Davidson is not a prep school, and cannot stand for such misdeeds. The
speaker closed by saying that Davidson was one of the few colleges that have an honor system supported entirely by
the students, and urged the men to put their shoulders to the wheel and uphold this system.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TO MAKE TRIP

The Orchestra and Glee Club are preparing to make a trip to Winston about October 21st. Later, probably in November,
a trip will be made to Greensboro, Raleigh, Wilmington and Red Springs. As it is still rather early in the
season, the men who will make the Orchestra and Glee Club have not been definitely named, although the prospects for
this year are very bright.

Davidson outfought and outplayed their heavier A. & M. rivals at every stage of the football game at Charlotte Saturday
and won by the decisive score of 16 to 0. The advance dope which was in favor of A. &
M. on account of their superior weight and the presence of old stars of All-Southern fame in their line-up, was
seriously upset from the start by the wonderful concentrated offensive and defensive play of the whole Davidson team. It was
a hard-fought, well-deserved, and clean-cut victory for Davidson, and evens up many old scores. The Red and Black squad showed
the results of superior coaching and throughout the entire forty minutes of play their “pep” and fight kept up steadily.
A. & M. was kept on the defensive throughout the entire game. Their backs, led by Van Brocklin, time after
time battered at the Davidson line and attempted to circle the ends, but the line held and not once were
they able to get outside the Davidson ends. A. & M. only succeeded in making first down three times in
the course of the game, and two of these came in the second quarter. They frequently resorted to punts, but
were bested almost two to one by the superb punting of Flowers. Van Brocklin was easily the star of the
A. & M. team, getting in almost every play and bearing the brunt of both the offensive and defensive work
of his team. Baughan and Rice also played well in the A. & M. backfield, while Cooke, in the line,
was the only one who seemed to be able to pierce the Red and Black offense.

The Davidson team worked in top form individually and collectively, but to “Sam” Keesler must be given the credit of
being the particular star. He ran the team like a general and was Davidson's most consistent ground gainer. He reeled
off something over a hundred yards in scrimmage and returned A. & M.'s punts for a total of 116 yards.
The lightest man on the team, he proved nearly as successful on line bucks as in circling the ends. Flowers
was also a large factor in his team’s victory, playing like a veteran. He contributed the first score inthe nature
of a pretty drop kick from the 30-yard line, and his punts, which were high and twisting, averaged nearly 50
yards. Steve Walker, in his dual capacity of end and half-back, played especially well at half-back, never failing to gain
when called upon. He was paired with his brother "Bob" on defense, and neither allowed anyone to get around them.
Jack Black and Buck Burns, next to Keesler, were Davidson's most consistent offensive factors. Each contributed a touchdown to the
score. Burns and Captain White backed up the line especially well. In the line, while each man fought hard and
played aggressively, the work of Billy Savad was an especial feature. He was a tower of strength both on offense
and defense. Spahn and Crouch, who were substituted in the backfield during the last few minutes of play, made a
good showing, and were steadily carrying the ball towards A. & M.'s goal when the whistle blew.

FIRST QUARTER

Captain McDougall wins toss and elects to kick, Davidson defends north goal. Lee kicked to C. Walker, who returns 20
yards to Davidson's 35-yard line. Black loses 7 on fumble; Keesler skirts left end for 4 and follows with a
right end run netting 8 yards. Flowers kicks 40 yards to Rice, who returns 3. Lee gains 3 yards through
center, but fumbles and T. White recovers ball. Black gains 5 through tackle, A. & M. penalized 5 yards for
holding, making it first down. Burns gains 6 on line buck. C. Walker fails to gain. Davidson penalized 15 yards
for holding. C. Walker gains 5 on pass from Keesler. Flowers gains 3 from punt formation. Ball on A. &
M.'s 42-yard line. Flowers tries for field goal, but fails. A. & M.'s ball on their twenty-yard line. McDougall gains
2 yards through tackle, but on this play Seifert is found holding, and A. & M. is penalized 15 yards.
McDougall fails to gain, and on next play kicks 30 yards to Keesler. D.C.'s ball on their 35-yard line. C.
Walker makes 3 yards through left tackle. Keesler makes 18 yards around left end on fake play. Burns goes through
guard for 5 yards. Burns tries another buck, but is tackled by Lee behind line. Keesler makes 13 yards around
right end, but Davidson is penalized 15 yards for holding. Black gains 7 on end run. Flowers tries drop kick
on 30-yard line but is blocked by Pierson. Rice tries to pick it up, but kicks it further toward Davidson's
goal, where it is recovered by Keesler on 10-yard line. Burns makes 1 through left (Continued on page 6)

No. 5

News and Happenings Of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle is on the program committee of the annual State Convention of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy, to be held in Gastonia, Tuesday and Wednesday. Misses Roddey and Jones, of the local Graded School faculty, are
staying at the home of Mrs. MacMillan. Miss Vardell, who is now visiting Dr. and Mrs. Martin, has planned to
study art this winter in New York City.

Dr. Lingle is to address the Woman's Club of Charlotte this week on a subject connected with South America.

Dr. and Mrs. Richards were at Liberty Hill, S.C., last week to attend the wedding of a niece. Mrs. A.
A. Finley, mother of A. G. Finley, '18, visited Mrs. W. J. Martin a few days ago.

Mrs. O. H. Yates and daughter, of China, who have been visiting Mrs. Robson, leave this week for Georgia.

Corporal D. G. Worth, ex-'18, who expects to leave for the Mexican border this week, spent Sunday with his mother,
Mrs. Worth. Mrs. James Currie leaves for Richmond this week to attend the marriage of her son, Mr. Thomas Currie.
Mrs. Angle, mother of C. W. Angle, '18, visited Mrs. J. P. Paisley last week. Mrs. Young continues very sick
at the Charlotte Sanatorium.

Mrs. Ida Davis spent the weekend at the home of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle.

Miss Annie Armour, of Davidson, is to be married in Richmond tomorrow to Mr. Sidney Dudley, a graduate of Annapolis.

Mrs. A. L. Hobbs continues seriously ill at the Long Sanatorium, in Statesville.

DEMOCRATIC CLUB WILL BE ORGANIZED

The Wilson-Bickett club which is to be organized at Davidson, Friday night, October 13th, will be addressed by Hon. Theodore
F. Kluttz and Mr. R. M. Gantt, of Durham. Mr. Kluttz and Mr. Gantt are both prominent figures in political
circles and every man in the Student Body is invited to hear these men when they make their addresses here.
At a meeting of the Student Body last Friday morning the following were elected as officers of the club: S.
T. Henderson, President; J. C. Paisley, Vice-President; A. P. Saunders, Secretary and Treasurer.
