4 Mr. Karl Lehman Speaks to Y. M. C. A. Christian Endeavor Society Organized at Davidson.

On Friday evening at 7 o'clock, the first regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. for the year was held in Shearer Hall. At that time, Mr. Carl Lehmann, Secretary of Christian Endeavor for the South, gave a strong address, urging all of the students to become interested in some form of active religious work during their college careers in order to fit them for the positions of responsibility which they will be called upon to fill in town and church when they have finished their courses here. Mr. Lehmann also reviewed the origin and subsequent history of the Christian Endeavor society and the work that it is now doing, together with an account of the campaign which is now on for an increased enrollment in the South.

A Christian Endeavor Society was recently organized among the students, and it was in the interest of this work that Mr. Lehmann came here for a short time on Friday. Arrangements were made to have him address the Y. M. C. A., and at this meeting, the members of the Christian Endeavor Society were present, and others who wished to join the society were given a chance to do so.

At the first regular meeting of the society on Sunday afternoon, the following officers were elected: P. B. Price, president; W. C. Cumming, vice-president; J. T. Maddrey, corresponding secretary; B. E. Shields, secretary and treasurer.

Y. M. C. A. MEETING.

Tomorrow evening at 7:15, the annual Y. M. C. A. rally meeting for Bible study classes will be held in Shearer Hall. All of the members of the student body are invited and urged to be present. The program for the meeting is as follows:

Hymn
Piano Solo - Selected Miss Stokes.
Prayer.
Vocal Solo - The Open Secret Miss Adelaide Moseley.
Address—Mr. C. W. Tillet, Jr.
Outline of courses of study for the year and signing of men for the classes.
Violin Solo - Oriental Announcements.
Trio - Whispering Hope Misses Moseley and Miss Stokes.
Benediction.

STAND BY YOUR COLLEGE.

If you think your college’s the best
Tell 'em so!
If you'd have it lead the rest
Help it grow.
When there's anything to do,
Let the others count on you,
You'll feel bully when it’s through,
Don’t you know.

If you're used to giving knocks,
Change your style;
Throw bouquets instead of rocks
For a while;
Let the other person roast,
Shun him as you would a ghost,
Meet his hammer with a boast
And a smile.

When a stranger from afar
Comes along,
Tell him who and what we are—
Make it strong.
Needn’t flatter, never bluff,
Tell the truth, for that's enough,
Join the boosters—they’re the stuff.
We belong.
—Ex.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, September 20, 1916

FROM AN ALUMNUS.

Rochester, N. Y., Aug. 24, 1916.

Davidson Men:

Word has come to me that I might have the opportunity to speak with you again in these columns. I do so with a great deal of hesitation, for more than ever I realize my inability to say the right thing at the right time. You are face to face with a new year—one filled with great possibilities. You will probably have the largest enrollment in the history of the college. You will have men better prepared for college work than ever before. You have taken more responsibility upon yourselves than ever before. With these favorable conditions, it is your part to say whether you will measure up to your responsibilities and what the record of 1916-17 will be.

It is the privilege of the old men to lead the work of the campus and show to the new men that they are expected to fall into the spirit of Davidson which was famous before we even started to kindergarten. We all know that this “spirit” means briefly—a spirit of constructive work for the best interests of the college, which is best carried forward when friendly relations exist between all students. This year is set in a period of time which is seeing great questions submitted to the people of this country and to the world. More than ever, you should be willing to put aside small campus differences and realize the need for the larger constructive work in making the Davidson student body and organizations within that body, places where the best training for leadership can be secured.

Give all possible support to the men you have selected to fill your offices. Even then, their work will be no “bed of roses,” and you have it in your power to help or hinder in a thousand ways. I can't resist the temptation to just say that after meeting men from practically all of the Eastern colleges and many from the Northwestern colleges, that I am more than ever glad I can claim Davidson. Any space given to saying how great is my personal interest in the work of this year would be useless. I feel that this is already known. But I sincerely wish the very best for each one of you.

John P. Williams.

TO THE ALUMNI.

Realizing that the best means of keeping the alumni and their alma mater in close touch with each other is through the columns of the college newspaper, THE DAVIDSONIAN will strive during the coming year to help in any way that it can in keeping the alumni posted in regard to affairs on the campus. It also wants to help each alumnus keep informed as to theWhereabouts and doings of classmates and friends of each of them. The regular news of events on and near the campus will keep them posted in regard to the first of these. In the alumni department of the paper, we hope to devote space each week to questions from the alumni in regard to matters in which they are interested and will see that each of them is answered as well as possible. In the cases of inquiries about the addresses and occupations of alumni, we will try to locate them by means of the partial record that the college office has been able to secure. If this is not successful, we ask that any alumnus or other reader who knows where the alumnus inquired for can be found, do us and the inquirer the favor of letting us know where he is located. 

A prominent alumnus of Davidson recently sent out to various alumni, whose addresses he could secure, a letter asking that they co-operate with The Davidsonian by subscribing to the paper and by showing an active interest in the affairs of the college, especially in the matter of advertising it and of getting new men to attend it. At the present writing, quite a number of answers have been received by him, and it speaks well for the Davidson spirit and loyalty that only one of the letters struck a discordant note in speaking of the matter. We ask that the alumni co-operate with us in helping to upbuild the college and put it before the people as much as possible. We promise also to be of as much assistance as we are able in attending to matters which the alumni may ask of us.

FINDING FRIENDS IN WAR TIME. 

The Strangers’ Bureau of the Salvation Army has been in operation in England for twelve months, as an expression of the desire of General Booth to relieve the distress caused by the war. During the year, many thousands of appeals for help in tracing missing relatives in some way or other concerned in the war have been received from rich as well as poor. Without expense to the applicants, the Salvation Army has readily placed its resources at their disposal. Many of the letters, which come from all parts of the world, were from wives longing for news of their husbands; from parents concerning the whereabouts of their boys; again and again, widowed mothers have written in pathetic strains asking to find their only sons; from young women who were accustomed to receive regular communications from their intended husbands, but had suddenly lost touch with them; and from Belgian refugees who were without news of relatives in their stricken land. The Salvation Army, being international in its organization, has unique opportunities for carrying on such work as this. It is true that in numbers of cases the news received has been of the saddest kind, and as far as possible such intelligence is conveyed personally to the distressed relatives; but happily, the Bureau has succeeded in bringing great joy to many others. Here are a few typical cases: 

A broken-hearted mother, on being informed of the unhappy fate of her son, wrote: “I must thank you for your kindness to me regarding my dear boy. I shall never forget it, and will tell everybody how good you were to us.” An anxious mother, whose daughter at the outbreak of the war was a nurse in Constantinople, appealed in a most piteous manner to endeavor to get a message from her child. After a great deal of difficulty, the officials were successful in discovering the daughter’s whereabouts, and in getting a cheerful and reassuring message from her to her aged mother. The relatives of another young lady, who is filling a very responsible position somewhere in Syria, were full of anxiety for her safety. Through Army people in one of the neutral countries, communications were established with her. An Australian soldier, who left the homeland when quite a lad, and who had neglected to write to his parents, wrote telling frankly how he regretted it, and begged, in a touching letter, help in tracing them. “Perhaps,” he said, “I may lose my life in the battle, and I am therefore very anxious to put matters right with my parents before I go into the conflict.” Machinery was set in motion, and the lad’s mother was found. His father, it was learned, had died a few months before. All that a Canadian soldier could tell on arrival in England with his contingent was that he had a sister who used to live somewhere in Sydenham. The sister was discovered and her address sent to the boy. This is splendid work, and one which deserves a great deal more credit than it has hitherto received —Christian Work.

His Basic Thought.

Victim — “What has happened? Where am I?” 
Doctor — “You have been seriously injured in a trolley accident. But cheer up—you will recover.” 
Victim — “How much?" — New York Times.