4. Red and Black Machine Made Excellent Record

A Brief Review of the Season, with Newspaper Comments.

The 1916 football season has proved the most successful that Davidson has had in many years. The team has made
a wonderful showing. The opposing teams have been almost without exception picked from student bodies much larger than Davidson’s, and
have represented the best colleges in the South. By comparative scores, the Davidson team ranks among the first in the
South for the present season, and no one will gainsay that this honor has been a deserved one. The Red
and Black team won five, lost three, and tied one. The games lost were without exception very close, and the
games won were without exception clean-cut and well-deserved victories. While no credit for this splendid showing should be taken from
the individual members of the squad, Coach Fetzer’s name stands in the limelight, and he should be given all praise
for his work with the Red and Black squad. He is a coach to be proud of, and Davidson is
indeed fortunate in having such a man to guide their athletic teams.

The extracts given below from the leading Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia papers give a fairly good estimate of just
what a great exhibition the little Red and Black machine has put up in football this season. Of the Virginia
game, which resulted in a 14-0 score in favor of Virginia, the Richmond Times-Dispatch has this to say: “The Presbyterians
presented a steady team and during the entire second half outplayed Coach Evans’ squad both on offense and defense.” Jack
Black didn't get in this game until the second half, and several of the Davidson men were not up to
full stride. Later games, especially the showing of Davidson and Virginia against Carolina, put a different light on the relative
worth of the first two teams.

The Charlotte News has this to say of the A. & M. battle: “Outplaying their opponents at every stage of
the game, outguessing their offensive movements and then in turn starting offensives that at times seemed unstoppable, Davidson yesterday defeated
A. & M. in one of the fiercest football games ever seen on Wearn field by a score of 16-0.”

The following extracts from Atlanta give some estimate of the scare the Davidson team threw into the Yellow Jackets—Georgia Tech:
“Not only did Davidson bring practically every attack of the Yellow Jackets to an abrupt halt, but all the first
half they had Heisman’s men trembling for fear of their own goal line.” “It must be confessed had Strupper been
out of the game, Tech’s chances for a victory would have been practically nil.”

DAVIDSON.

“The game little crew from the Tar Heel State
A game little gang is right.
The little Red team with the pep and the steam,
And an inborn love for a fight.”

The team played a little below usual form in the Citadel game, the aerial game of the South Carolinians proving
a puzzle. The following from the Roanoke Times: “Outclassing Roanoke College at every stage of the game and uncovering a
mass of plays that completely dumfounded the Salemites, Davidson triumphed over Roanoke by a score of 20 to 0.”

Davidson had an easy time with Furman, piling up a score of 46 to 14. 219 S. Tryon St. News
says: “When everything was over and an adding machine or two was brought into play, it was found that the
Presbyterians had tied the Tiger tail into some thirty-three knots—and the Davidson goal line was uncrossed. It was in many
respects a great game, but the warriors from the Palmetto State were outclassed from beginning to end.”

MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES

It does not begin to show the superiority the Red and Black team showed over the Blue and White eleven.
Davidson excelled the Carolina eleven—there is no doubt about that. To a neutral observer, there was not a bit of
doubt but that Davidson outplayed the Carolina team.Charlotte, N. C. The Wofford game resulted in a 32-0 tie, win for
Davidson. The team was without the services of several regulars. Of the Clemson game, the Charlotte News has this to
say: "It does not begin to show the tale. It was a Carolina eleven throughout."

In every department of the game, Davidson excelled. The Charlotte News commented on the game with love of music, joy,
and brightness. The Stieff Piano department is known as luck.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
Knapp-Felt Hats
Soriety Brand Clothes
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

The DAVIDSONIAN, December 6, 1916

LAST SUNDAY’S SERMON.
Last Sunday, Dr. Richards appropriately took for his subject “Christ as the Model Public Speaker,” with the text, “Never man
spake as this man.” Often, he said, we regard Christ only as a spiritual leader and forget how many practical
lessons we can learn from Him. Treating Christ as a speaker from a personal rather than from a literary point
of view, Dr. Richards went on to show seven characteristics of His speech.

First comes His intellect and His understanding of His subject matter both through books and through nature; second, His heart—capable
both of love for good and of hatred for evil; third, His truthfulness; and fourth, His purity of life. Fifth
was His interest in His subject that made Him earnest and sincere; sixth, His personality—a combination of heart and head;
and seventh, the presence of the Holy Spirit. This we are accustomed to look upon as belonging to ministers alone,
but in reality, its strength is available to every one of us, and “if a man wants to have power
in public speaking, let him ask God's Spirit.”

TRIP TO CHARLOTTE
Purchase your Clothes at the Economy Shop
V. WALLACE & SONS and receive 5% in cash for purchase coupons
Stetson Hats, Kuppenheimer Clothes, Bannister Shoes.

FOOTBALL
Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. 5-5? This is the one used in every big college game
because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with the cashier of the Bank
C.L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
ATLANTA, GA.

CIVIC LEAGUE NOTES.
The young ladies of the town have used the funds realized from the “Old Maid” entertainment given last summer to
put water in the Civic League hall. They also added a burlap screen to make the serving of refreshments more
convenient. The members of the Civic League warmly appreciate this interest and help.

Miss Rode, representative of the general manager's office of the Southern Railway, has begun a scheme of planting at the
railway station and has already put in quite a number of rare and beautiful shrubs. This is expected to add
to the attractiveness of the depot surroundings, and it is hoped that the people of the community will show an
interest and aid the railroad in its efforts to make and keep the station grounds neat and attractive.

Onion Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal

Quality Counts
That’s why we have stuck to our policy of making only the best.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Supplies
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

DR. HARDING HAS NARROW ESCAPE
Dr. C. R. Harding, one of the professors of Davidson College, narrowly escaped a serious accident and possibly death in
passing through Huntersville last Saturday morning. He was riding along in his automobile when the door opened and he reached
over to close it. Then something went wrong, and the car ran up the embankment on the side of the
road and then turned entirely over. Dr. Harding was not hurt.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION
