The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Finals In Debating Contest Are Held

Neal, Patton, Smith, and Thames to Represent Davidson.

Before a fairly large audience in Shearer Hall, Saturday night, the finals were held for the selection of two debating
teams to represent Davidson in intercollegiate debates this spring. Eight men, previously selected in preliminary contests in the respective societies,
contested hotly for the honors. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That the President's Ship Purchase Bill should be passed
by Congress.” The judges, Drs. J. M. McConnell and Sentelle, and Professor Currie, decided that W. H. Neal, J. G.
Patton, F. H. Smith, and J. A. Thames should compose the teams, with L. A. Chambliss and R. H. Ratchford
as alternates.

Publication.

The Annual goes to press the last of this month and will appear on the campus the first week in
May. L. A. Mullen, the editor-in-chief, has some fine material for the Annual, and he is working in many new
ideas. The volume this year will be a little larger than heretofore, and will be entirely different. The art staff,
headed by J. F. Good, has been increased both in members and strength, and the work in this department is
exceedingly good. During the past ten days the staff has been working day and night on a special process of
decorating. Through the courtesy of the Timmons-Grady Company, of Charlotte, N. C., the editors were enabled to get the use
of a special instrument for making finished art designs. This feature alone will make the coming issue a unique one.
Within the past few years “Quips and Cranks” has risen from an average small college yearbook to one of the
foremost college annuals in the South, and it is credited by many as being the best in the South.

L. A. Chambliss (Fu) opened the debate for the affirmative, first pointing out the need of ships both in the
navy as auxiliaries and in commerce, and then maintaining that the best way to remedy the need was by the
adoption of the proposed bill.

H. A. Scott (Eu) was the first speaker for the negative, maintaining that private industry was essential to the future
development of our merchant marine, and that this would be crushed by the ship purchase bill.

The second speaker for the affirmative was J. G. Patton (Fu), who showed that our plan for preparedness, along with
the welfare of our commerce, demanded the passage of the bill, and that the government should not hesitate to enter
the shipping business.

R. H. Ratchford (Phi) spoke next for the negative. He claimed that the measure under discussion would not build up
our merchant marine, and proposed other remedies for meeting the need.

J. A. Thames (Phi), following for the affirmative, argued that since private interest had failed and was failing in its
duty to American shippers, the government should therefore give the service required, and pointed out the benefits that would be
derived from the passage of the bill.

F. H. Smith (Fu) denounced the bill as inexpedient and unnecessary, ridiculed it as a measure for an emergency that
did not exist, and claimed that it would be devoid of any good results.

D. Shaw (Phi) closed the debate for the affirmative, showing the need for the bill, and offering it as the
best plan for meeting the need.

W. H. Neal (Phi), the last speaker of the evening, argued that the bill would not accomplish the purpose for
which it was introduced, and proposed in its stead ship subsidy and other plans for the upbuilding of American shipping.

It has been decided that Neal and Thames will compose the team to debate Erskine. This debate will be held
April 7, at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C. The subject will be the same as used Saturday, and Davidson
will uphold the negative. Ratchford will be the alternate for this team.

NEW BOOKS FOR LIBRARY.

During January about 175 new books were received into the Library. A number of subjects are treated by them: biology,
biography, philosophy, German text-books, fiction, and classics. “The Collected Poems of Rupert Brooke” is also included among the volumes. Although
the young lieutenant lost his life during the early part of the war, the poetry he left shows that he
was a genius. His sonnets are equaled by none in this generation.

Fresh Are Champions In Class Foot Ball

They Tie Seniors and Sophs In This Week’s Games.

The Fresh and Seniors played to a 0-0 tie last Tuesday afternoon. One of the features of the game was
a run by Pickens, of the Fresh, who received the kickoff and returned 35 yards to the Seniors’ 40-yard line,
where he was downed by Sparrow. The Fresh were penalized 15 yards for holding and soon lost the ball. The
Seniors were unable to gain and the ball went back to the Fresh. At this time Johnson pushed his way
through the line and after a splendid run placed the ball over the line. This score was not allowed, however,
the Fresh having fouled by holding. This put a damper on the spirits of the first-year men and they relied
on straight football for the remainder of the half, but neither side could gain, and the game ended in a
tie.Half ended with the ball near mid-field. Patton and Smith will debate Emory College at Agnes Scott, upholding the affirmative
of the query: “Resolved, That the British system of government is the best.” The second half was less eventful than
the first. Exchanges of punts were frequent, and though the Fresh excelled in (Continued on page 4) (Continued on page
4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 16, 1916.

“Quips and Cranks” — Foot Ball Schedule Is Announced

FOOT BALL SCHEDULE:
* September 30—U. of Va., Charlottesville, Va.
* October 7—A. and M., Charlotte.
* October 14—Georgia Tech, Atlanta.
* October 21—Citadel, Davidson.
* October 28—Roanoke College, Roanoke, Va.
* November 4—Furman, Greenville.
* November 11—U. of N.C., Winston-Salem, N.C.
* November 18—Pending.
* November 30—Clemson, Charlotte.

The schedule for 1916 calls for many hard games early in the season, but from the record of the Red
and Black eleven last fall, it is a certainty that all of them will be battles royal. The University of
Virginia calls for the first game on their field in Charlottesville. This is the first time that Davidson has met
the Old Dominion eleven in several years, and keen interest will be centered on this match. A. and M. is
the second game, in Charlotte, while the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets will be played in their nest on October 14.
The Thanksgiving game is with Clemson, in Charlotte. This is probably the most welcomed of all, because the annual game
with the Tigers has always been close, and as they are clean sportsmen, the Turkey Day contest is sure to
be full of interest. The schedule does not call for a game with Wake Forest. Only one date on the
schedule is pending, November 18.

Volunteers Attend Greensboro Conference
P. B. Price, of Davidson, Elected President.

The Davidson delegation to the Student Volunteer Conference at the North Carolina State Normal, in Greensboro, left here Friday at
noon. On arriving in Greensboro, the delegates went to the Normal College, where they registered and were assigned different homes
for entertainment. The conference was opened Friday by addresses of welcome by Dr. John A. Tesh, on behalf of the
Normal, and Miss Rosa Blakeney, on behalf of the Normal students. Mr. Geo. D. Rowe, of Wake Forest, secretary and
treasurer of the Union, responded. Dr. John N. Mills, of Washington, D. C., then spoke on “The Social Achievements of
the Gospel in Heathen Lands.” After the meeting, an informal reception was given to the delegates, which was greatly enjoyed
by all.

At the Saturday morning meeting, Dr. D. Clay Lilly spoke on “Prayer and Missions,” and at the business session in
(Continued on page 4)

No. 18.

Statesville Defeated By Red and Black
Succumbs to Scrub Attack.

Friday night, in a fast and snappy game played on the Statesville court, Davidson took the third of a scheduled
five-game series from Statesville Y. M. C. A. by the score of 39 to 33. The game was rather close,
but superb passing and superior floor work enabled the Davidson lads to forge out ahead. The outstanding feature was the
foul goal shooting of Captain Reese for Davidson. He shot 13 out of a possible 14 fouls, and in addition
made two field goals, totaling more than half of Davidson's score. Wood also played a fine game at forward. For
Statesville, Guy and Kimball featured.

The line-up:
Davidson. Position. Statesville.
King........ Forward .... Kimball
Wood........ Forward .... Newman
Hengeveld.... Centre .... Etheridge
Reese........ Guard .... Overcash
Younger...... Guard .... Guy

Substitution: Walker for Younger, Brady for Overcash
Field goals: King 2, Wood 6, Hengeveld 3, Reese 2. Kimball 5, Newman 1, Etheridge 5, Guy 3.
Foul goals: Reese 13, Guy 5.

WINSTON GAME.

On last Friday, the Davidson scrub basketball team defeated the Winston-Salem High School quintet by the score of 29 to
9. Although the score seems to indicate that the game was a rather one-sided affair, as a matter of fact,
such was not the case, for the Winston youngsters played well and fought hard, and every point was hotly contested.
At the end of the first half, the Davidson scrubs led by the score of 12 to 5. The scrubs
showed up well in the matter of passing, but shots for goal were few and far between in comparison to
the amount of passing done. Nimocks showed form, however, and made some good shots. The Winston High School boys, although
outweighed by an average of about seventeen pounds, put up a splendid fight, and everyone remarked on the pluck displayed
in their game. Crute played an especially good game for them, and Moore shot some nice foul goals. The line-up
was as follows:

D.C. Scrubs. Position. W.-S. H. S.
Nimocks...... Forward .... Nash
Potts......... Forward .... Moore
Williamson.... Centre .... Crute
White........ Guard .... Speere
McAlister..... Guard .... Fulton

Substitutions—Farrington for Speere, Hardock for Moore, Moore for Crute.

LECTURE FRIDAY NIGHT.

Mr. McAlister, who for the past year has been president of the State Social Service Organization, will give the second
of the series of lectures planned for this spring, on Friday night in Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock. Mr. McAlister
is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, and one of Greensboro’s influential citizens. For some time he has
been interested in social service work and was at the head of this work in that city.
