Goodrum & Co. There is where you get the latest styles in Caps, Shoes, Neckwear, Underwear, and Interwoven Sox. Ivory Garters. M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY Cleaning and Pressing Prompt and Efficient Service TOBE JOHNSON New Line of Ladies’ & Children’s Shoes Consisting of Grover's and Shelley's, are open for your inspection, are splendid values. Come in and let us fit you up for the whole family. Armour Bros. & Thompson GOOD COAL Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with Cashier of Bank. C. L. GREY DAVIDSON, N. C. C. C. BROWN CHARLOTTE :: N. C. Interior Decorator Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South. The DAVIDSONIAN, April 26, 1916 WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US BOTH MAKE MONEY. Let Your Next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s Misenheimer & Payne, Agts. No. 4 Watts WITH OUR ALUMNI. THE ATLANTA ASSOCIATION, Y. M. C. A. MEETING. At the regular weekly meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on last Thursday night, on the occasion of the debate with Emory at Agnes Scott recently, the Atlanta Alumni Association arranged for the entertaining of our debaters, Patton and Smith, and did all that they could to make their stay in Atlanta as pleasant as possible. The team was met at the station and conducted to the Hotel Ansley, where rooms had been arranged for them. During their stay, a luncheon was given by the alumni at which the Davidson “pep” was in evidence, and at the debate, the alumni sat in a body to cheer the team on. The Atlanta association is one of the livest that the college has and one of the most loyal. Each month there is a luncheon held at which all of the alumni in Atlanta gather for an evening of pleasure and reminiscences. In addition, the association is doing a good deal to help the college in a material way and make it a better and bigger Davidson. * * * Mr. B. F. Wilson, ex-’48, is now living at Mavesville, S. C. Mr. Wilson is the grandfather of P. B. Price. WHAT YOU OUGHT TO READ IN CURRENT MAGAZINES In the Independent: “Concentrate!” by E. E. Purinton; “Will Holland Have to Fight Germany?” In the Forum: “The Scarabee Monographed,” by Bruce Cummings. In the Atlantic Monthly: “German Propaganda in the United States,” by Gustavus Ohlinger; “Kitchener's Mob,” by Jas. N. Hall. In Everybody’s: “Congress Quit,” by G. L. Harding; “My Best Lines.” (A glimpse of eleven leading players). In Harper’s: “An Ancient Village on the Marne,” by H. A. Gibbons; “A Fugitive From Injustice,” (story) by H. Brubaker. LECTURE TO MEDICAL CLUB. A very interesting and profitable lecture was given before the Aesculapian Club, the local medical club, on Tuesday, April 18th, by Dr. R. S. Cunningham, ‘11, who is now an instructor in Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Cunningham spoke of the advantages that a man expecting to make medicine his life work has in attending a good medical school that sets a high standard of work. The advantages as outlined by him were: better training, inspiring influences from close contact with great men in this profession, and the great value of a diploma from a school that has a recognized standing. The importance of being well prepared for entrance was also stressed. While Dr. Cunningham was here, he was entertained at the home of Dr. J. W. McConnell and spent several days working with the students in the biology laboratories. On last Wednesday, Lillian, the ten-year-old...Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Mooney, through accident, swallowed three bichloride tablets. Dr. J. W. McConnell was hastily summoned and through his efforts, the child was relieved, and it is thought no harm will come of the mistake. A very interesting feature was the showing of a set of stereopticon slides picturing the Blue Ridge Student Conference, which is held every summer. E. P. Nisbet explained each of the views as it was shown, and at the conclusion of the series, T. D. Sparrow gave a ten-minute talk outlining the work, plans, pleasures, and benefits of the conference.

GOLF TOURNAMENT NEARING FINISH
The semi-finals and finals of the spring golf tournament will be played this week. The semi-finals are scheduled for the first of the week, with matches between Drs. Currie and J. M. McConnell; Dr. Arbuckle and J. W. Clark. The winners of these matches will play an eighteen-hole game on Saturday to decide the championship.

NOTICE
The Students’ Council calls the attention of the students to the fact that in ancient and modern language work, the use of books with translations interlined, or with word translations inserted, on reviews and examinations is considered as “receiving aid” and, of course, such work cannot be pledged. It is requested of those having such books that they submit the book to the professor before taking the reviews or examination, in order that he may make any necessary change in the assignment, or that new books be procured.

SHAKESPEAREAN LECTURES BY DR. FULTON
Dr. M. G. Fulton delivered an illustrated lecture before the State Library Association at its recent meeting in Gastonia, N.C. He spoke of the influence that Shakespeare's environment at Stratford and London had in the formation of his work as a dramatist. Dr. Fulton also recently favored the Senior English class with a stereopticon lecture, showing views connected with historical places mentioned in Shakespeare’s plays. This was the first of the series of three.

D. C. Young, ‘15, who is principal of the Ruby, S. C., school, has been very successful in his first year of teaching. Recently, he was awarded first prize for making the greatest improvement in the schools of the state. He has raised the work of the school to a high standard of efficiency and made a great improvement in athletics, having introduced the game of basketball in the school.

Through the kindness of the Polity Club, the following books bearing on international matters have recently been added to the Library: “The Great Settlement,” by Fayle; “Proceedings of the First Pan-American Financial Congress;” “The Great Illusion,” by Angell; “Towards International Government,” by Hobson; “The World’s Highway,” by Angell.

“Preparedness”
We are prepared to furnish on the shortest notice the best that is to be had in Printing. Let J. H. CARSON, our Davidson representative, quote you prices.
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music
AND ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE
Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Lion Brand
Collars, Shirts, Socks, Handkerchiefs, Ties, Anything to Wear
BELK BROTHERS

McClure, Agent

W. H. Cullum, ‘19, spent Easter in Concord, N. C., and Lynchburg, Va.
W. C. Rourk, '16, attended the Moravian Easter services at Winston-Salem.