The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Student Body Holds An Important Meeting
Officers Elected and Other Matters Taken Up.

At a meeting of the Student Body Monday morning, the following officers were elected for the year 1916-17: President, A.
B. Reese, Jr., '17; Vice-Presidents, J. M. Black, '18, and F. W. Hengeveld, '18; Secretary and Treasurer, J. W. McAlister,
'19.

In addition to electing officers, the blanket fee and point system for Davidson were discussed and approved. By an almost
unanimous vote, approval was given to the proposed blanket fee system, by which each student pays to the college treasurer,
along with other college fees, the sum of six dollars and a quarter and is thereby entitled to a season
Athletic Association ticket to games on the Hill, to Y. M. C. A. membership, and to subscriptions to the three
college publications, The Davidsonian, the Magazine, and the Annual.

The report on the blanket fee system was made by L. A. Mullen, chairman of the committee which was appointed
last year to investigate the system as used at other colleges and work out the details. This committee voted unanimously
to recommend the change to the student body on all of the items except the Magazine, and that then a
vote be taken on the question of including it. After some discussion, the recommendation was passed and by a separate
vote, the Magazine was included in the fee. Before this fee can be finally adopted and listed in the college
catalog, it must be approved by the Board of Trustees of the college. The overwhelming vote of the student body
indicates their attitude toward the matter and it is earnestly hoped that the Trustees will act favorably.

At the same meeting of the student body, the question of instituting a point system in the Davidson student body
was reported by T. D. Sparrow, as chairman of a committee which had been appointed to work up information and
data on the plan. According to this system, each holder of an office will be limited to a certain number
of units, each office being rated at a number of units proportionate to the work and responsibility. After some discussion,
this new move was also adopted by a large majority, and the Student Council was given power to fix the
scale of units at which the officers will be rated, subject to approval by the student body. This plan will
eliminate the burdening of a small group of men with the bulk of the work and will more evenly divide
the offices among the students.

TENNIS MATCH WITH ELON ON FRIDAY

Davidson will meet Elon College in a tennis match Friday afternoon at 2:30. Both doubles and singles will be played,
and the match should prove interesting in every way. A return match will be played at Elon May 12. The
games will be played on the championship court, and it is hoped a large crowd will attend. Davidson's team will
be composed of Saunders and T. A. Finley.

Junior-Senior Debate Held Last Night

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 3, 1916. No. 29

Minstrel Entertainment Given Monday Night
Great Record Made By Red and Black
Annual Contest Results In Victory for the Philanthropic.
Large Crowd Enjoys Evening of Entertainment

The Junior-Senior debate was held last night in Shearer Hall and resulted in victory for the Philanthropic Society. The Eumenean
Society, represented by A. R. Craig, L. G. Edgerton, and R. Perry, upheld the affirmative side of the question: "Resolved,
That an amendment should be made to the Federal Constitution forbidding the sale of intoxicating liquors in the United States."
The negative was defended by R. H. Ratchford, H. W. Ormand, and J. D. McLeod, representing the Philanthropic Society.

The individual debater’s medal was won by L. G. Edgerton, in the Eumenean Society, and R. H. Ratchford, of the
Philanthropic Society. Craig opened the debate with a short explanation of the question and a history of National Prohibition. Edgerton,
following on the affirmative, argued that since present methods have been ineffectual in the past, they will be ineffectual in
the future if no change is made. Perry closed the argument for the affirmative by showing what National Prohibition would
do for the country.

Ratchford, first for the negative, argued that Prohibition is not a National issue. The main point the next speaker, H.
W. Ormand, brought out was that National Prohibition would be ineffective in promoting real temperance. He also argued that it
would be detrimental to the cause of good government. McLeod, the last speaker of the negative, closed their argument by
pointing out the defects in the present Federal Constitution. He proposed other methods of governing the Prohibition question.

TRACK MEET WITH CLEMSON

All forms of inter-collegiate athletics will be brought to a close for the year on Saturday afternoon, May 13th, when
the Clemson track team comes to Davidson for a meet. The Tigers have been doing good work on the cinder
path this year and from all indications, this meet will be hotly contested. Davidson’s team is composed of the following
men: Perry, Morrison, Ives, M. McKinnon, D. G. Worth, G. S. Crouch, Grey, Brand, A. G. Finley, and W. A.
Johnson. This team should show up better than in the former meets of the season as the squad is working
hard every afternoon. Several other men are making good on the track and doubtless there will be a slight change
in the team to oppose Clemson.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF ANNUAL ELECTED BY RISING SENIORS.

At a meeting of the Junior class on Monday afternoon, the editor-in-chief of the Annual for the coming year was
chosen, Andrew Brown being elected to the office. In the election for members of the student council which followed, Keesler,
Nisbet, Henderson, Price, and...Savad were selected. C. W. Angle, '18, spent the weekend at his home, Greensboro, N. C.

Fun and Laughter.

A very highly appreciated feature of amusement in lighter vein was given in Shearer Hall Monday night to a capacity
audience by the Davidson College Minstrel. The minstrel was composed of sixteen black-faced comedians, reinforced by the Orchestra and Glee
Club. The comedians presented a flashy display of ties and an array of variegated hose. They were seated in a
semicircle on the stage, and behind them sat the Glee Club, while the Orchestra occupied an elevated stage at the
rear. The music was good, consisting of everything from “Yankee-Doodle” and “Dixie” to the latest rag of the day. The
program also included many of the latest jokes and clog dancing. One thrilling feature was the negro crap game. W.
H. Neal, of the Orchestra and Glee Club, rendered “Today,” which brought forth loud applause. At the close of the
first act “Bob” Jones and “Chief” Mullen gave a ridiculous two-round boxing match. The oration of Law and the dancing
of Copeland created much laughter. A nice sum was netted from the door receipts, which will go towards paying the
expenses of the Shakespearean plays to be given by the Senior class at commencement.

NEW PROFESSOR SECURED FOR NEXT YEAR

The college has been fortunate in securing the services of Prof. S. Macon Reed as an additional teacher, now, and
for some years past, headmaster of the Donaldson Military School, of Fayetteville, N. C., to begin work with Davidson at
the opening of the new college year in September. He will teach preparatory and Freshman Greek, Latin, and Math. Professor
Reed is no novice in teaching young men, but has behind him a successful experience of fifteen years in this
work. He is the second son of Rev. R.C. Reed, D.D., professor in Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S. C., and
is thirty-seven years of age. He was prepared for college at the University School, Nashville, Tenn., and on entrance to
Vanderbilt University won by competitive examination the $50 cash prize for the best examination in Greek and Latin. After three
years of work in the University, he taught in Columbia, S. C., to which place his father had moved. The
next year, however, found him back at Vanderbilt studying in the School of Civil Engineering. Since that time he has
been teaching continuously in college and fitting school, with the exception of two years spent in West Virginia as a
practical engineer. At one time he was Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the University of South Carolina, in which institution
he received his degree of A.B.; Maxima cum Laude. This summer Professor Reed will spend in study at Columbia University,
New York.

J. D. Sprunt, '18, left last week for his home, Wilmington, N. C., to have his tonsils removed.

On Trip.

ELON GAME.

Davidson again defeated Elon College Tuesday at Elon, the score being 4 to 2. The game was fast, only one
hour and twelve minutes being consumed. Both teams hit the ball consistently, but fast fielding cut off many would-be hits.
Neither Currie nor Bailey had much on the ball, for only one man was struck out by each pitcher. The
fielding of the Elon team was ragged at times, errors being responsible for three of Davidson's four runs. Elon earned
both of their two runs, three successive singles enabling them to push two runs across the plate. Score by innings:
R. H. E. Davidson 040 000 000—4 4 3 Elon 002 000 000—2 7 3

TRINITY GAME.

In a contest of seven innings, shortened on account of the threatening condition of the weather, Davidson shut out Trinity
at Durham Wednesday 7 to 0 in the third and deciding game of the series. Lawson pitched good ball for
Davidson, allowing seven hits, but keeping them well scattered. He was given errorless support by his teammates. Mason, for Trinity,
was hit hard when hits meant runs. The Red and Black scored six runs in the second inning on four
errors, singles by Black and Brown, and an infield out. The other came in the next frame as a result
of two errors and an infield out. Alford led the hitting for Davidson, getting a double and a single out
of four trips to the plate. Love and Langely starred for Trinity, each getting three singles. Score by innings: R.
H. E. Davidson 061 000 000—7 4 0 Trinity 000 000 000—0 7 4

WAKE FOREST GAME.

The Red and Black continued its winning streak by defeating Wake Forest Thursday 6 to 3 in the last game
of the season for the Baptists. Ellis’ offerings failed to puzzle the Davidson hitters, who found him for twelve hits
in eight innings. Hengeveld, for Davidson, allowed seven hits in the first three innings, but after that settled down to
steady work and refused to allow another safety. Hengeveld’s stick work was also largely responsible for his team’s victory. His
double in the eighth started the rally which tied the score and his single in the ninth, which allowed Brown
to count, put Davidson one run ahead. Wake Forest scored one in the first when Robley singled, went to second
when Carlyle was hit by a pitched ball, and scored on Holding’s hit through the infield. Two more runs came
in the third as a result of a two-base hit, an infield hit, and two clean singles. The Red and
Black registered two in the fourth on two singles, a base on balls, and a sacrifice hit. The score was
evened up in the eighth. Hengeveld hit to left for two bases. He took third on Johnson’s infield out and
scored when Black hit to Sams.

(Continued on page 4)
