The DAVIDSONIAN, May 3, 1916

CLASS BASE BALL.

The inter-class baseball season promises to be one of unusual interest. Each class has succeeded in putting out a good,
well-rounded team, and the race for the championship is exceedingly close. The first game was played last Tuesday between the
Sophs and the Fresh, the Sophs winning 6 to 0. The batteries were J. Fowle and S. Fowle for the
Sophs, and Nimocks and Burns for the first-year men. The feature of this game was the pitching of Fowle, who
succeeded in striking out eighteen of his opponents.

The second game was between the Juniors and the Seniors and was won by the former 7 to 3. T.
White and B. White for the Juniors, and Cashion and McIntire composed the batteries.

The Junior-Fresh game was a runaway for the Fresh. They piled up 24 hits and 28 runs, while the Juniors
made 12 hits and 10 runs. Smith and Bonev pitched for the Juniors, while Nimocks was on the mound for
the Freshmen.

The next game, between the Sophs and the Seniors, was the best game of the series, and was not won
by the Seniors until the ninth, when McIntire brought in the winning run with a timely single. The final score
was 5 to 4. The batteries were Daffin and King for the Sophs, and Cashion and McIntire for the Seniors.

In an exciting twelve-inning game Monday afternoon, the Juniors won from the Sophs 7 to 6. Bullock won the game
with a two-bagger after two men were out. Fowle pitched a good game for the Sophs. White and White for
the Juniors, and Fowle and King for the Sophs, were the batteries.

The standing of the teams to date is as follows:

| Team | Won | Lost | P.C. |
|---------|-----|------|------|
| Juniors | 2 | 1 | .666 |
| Seniors | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| Fresh | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| Sophs | 1 | 2 | .333 |

PROGRAM COMPLETED FOR HIGH SCHOOL FINALS

On Friday night, May 5, the annual High School commencement will begin in Shearer Hall. Three short plays will be
given that night by the fifth and sixth grades, under the supervision of Miss Hood and Miss Jones. There will
also be some songs in which the fourth grade will take a part. A small admission fee will be charged
in order to defray the expense of the costumes, etc.

On Saturday night the recitation and declamation contests will be held, after which the graduation exercises will take place. The
valedictory and the salutatory addresses, the will, prophecy, and the history of the class will be given. Rev. Mr. Hoyle,
of Cornelius, will deliver the graduation address. The honors will then be awarded and a report of the past year’s
work will be read.

WILMINGTON CLUB HAS “FEED”

On last Saturday night the members of the Wilmington club held an enjoyable “feed” in the room of E. J.
McIntire. After disposing of a bounteous repast, W. C. Rourk, acting as toastmaster, called on all the members for a
speech, and plans and suggestions were brought up in regard to the future of the club, and its relation to
the college. After singing various songs, the meeting closed with a vote of thanks to McIntire for the preparation of
the “feed” and with a cheer for Wilmington.

C. E. Mitchell left yesterday for a visit of a few days at his home, Asheville, N. C.

GREAT RECORD MADE (Continued from page 1)

Davidson drove Ellis out of the box in the ninth with three singles, counting for as many runs. Franks succeeded
him and stopped the scoring. Hengeveld, Black, Younger, and McMillan led the hitting for the locals, getting two hits apiece.
Younger made the fielding feature of the day when he made a shoe-string catch of Ellis’ hard drive in the
ninth.

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Davidson . .. 000 200 013—6 13 1
Wake Forest . 120 000 000—3 7 0

SPENCER GAME.

By a rally in the ninth which was aided by two misplays of the Davidson team,Spencer won Saturday from Davidson
by a score of 3 to 2. The game was fast and interesting throughout. Lawson allowed eight hits, but kept
them for the most part well scattered. Davidson scored one in the third on a fielder’s choice and a double
by Alford, and one again in the fifth when E. Poole allowed Lawson’s single to get through him for a
home run. Spencer did not score until the seventh, when B. Trexler hit one over the left field fence for
a home run. Then came the unlucky ninth. Poole, first man up, singled, took second when Peeter's grounder went through
Johnson, and both runners scored a moment later when Younger allowed Cornelison’s drive to roll to the fence.

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Davidson . .. 001 010 000—2 6 2
Spencer . . . 000 000 102—3 8 3

BATTING AVERAGES.
The averages as given below include all games played this season except the Spencer game.

AB. H. P.C.
Alford .. ...... 66 23 .349
McMillan .. 44 14 .318
Saunders .. .. .. 64 20 .313
Black .. 2... 77 23 .299
Brown .. .. ... 67 20 .299
Johnson .. .. .. 77 22 .286
Wood... .. .... 71 17 .239
Younger .. .. .. 52 11 .212
Heneeveld ...... 39 8 .205
Currie .. 0.05... 12 2 .166
Lawson .. 2.0... 27 4 .148
Totals .. .. .. 606 161 .266

THE RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS.
In the reading room of the library may be found pamphlets containing information and specimen examinations for the Rhodes scholarship
tests which will be held in this state in October. This scholarship at Oxford, England, carries with it the sum
of $1,500 per year for a term of three years and two representatives are selected from each state in the
United States. The examinations for these scholarships in North Carolina will be held at Raleigh in October. In addition to
the scholarship requirements, men are judged also on their attainments in athletics, student activities, literary work and general character and
fitness. The committee in charge of the North Carolina examinations is headed by President Graham, of the State University, as
chairman, and the Davidson representative on the board is Dr. T. W. Lingle.

President Martin and Rev. J. C. Shive, field representative of Davidson, were in Atlanta Sunday to present the cause of
the college to the Presbyterians of that city in the effort to bring to a successful close the present campaign
for an addition to the endowment of $100,000. The campaign closes the last of May.

PRESCRIPTIONS AND PURE DRUGS
We appreciate your patronage
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc.
Special attention given to “Feeds”
Your trade is appreciated
L. A. ELLIOT

HOTEL STONEWALL
—Charlotte, N.C.—
The Flyless Restaurant
TORRENCE & HELPER
Also Auto Service
SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.
Fountain Pens Stationery
Make our Store Your “Meeting Place”
Jetton Drug Co.
Your prescriptions are compounded with the best

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00
COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits
TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N.C.
WRIGHT'S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N.C.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

BASEBALL SHOES
To play well you must be well shod.
“CLUB SPECIAL” SPRINTING
No. 08, the pair $5.00
Long time favorites on all ball fields.
Catalogue mailed on request.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA.

THE COMMISSARY
Give your Shoe Repair Work
To JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Headquarters For Davidson Men
