The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 19, 1916. No. 27

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

General Plan of Campus and New Quadrangle 1915

A Greater Davidson Is Being Planned
Cut Shows the Proposed Improvements and Changes.

The above cut shows the general plan of improvement which is being followed in developing the Davidson campus. Mr. John
Nolen, of Cambridge, Mass., made a very thorough study of the possibilities of the campus and it will be seen
that when all the proposed improvements are finished, there will be several important changes. Already water mains are being placed
for the new buildings, and if the $100,000 additional endowment is added this spring, as is confidently expected, the new
alumni gymnasium will be erected on the campus, between Chambers Building and Sprunt Athletic Field.

CLASS IN EXPRESSION ORGANIZED HERE

A considerable amount of interest has been aroused on the campus in a class in expression, taught by Prof. G.
S. Fulbright, of the Boston School of Expression. Professor Fulbright has just come from Columbia Theological Seminary, where he has
been giving a series of lessons similar to the course that he has begun here. The object in view is
the accurate and effective expression of mental activity in both voice and body. Mechanical rules are avoided and the natural
development of the individual is the key-note. Two classes meet daily, and the course will continue for four weeks. At
present about twenty-five have enrolled, and all are enthusiastic over the prospect.

Musical Organizations Have Successful Trip
Orchestra and Glee Club Give Four Concerts.

On Monday, April 10th, the Davidson College Orchestra and Glee Club left on the second trip of the spring with
a personnel of eighteen men. They appeared at Queens College that night in a very good performance. Next afternoon, in
Bennettsville, S.C., the musicians were given a most delightful lawn party by Mrs. Carroll, consequently the club “came back” that
night with a concert above the average. Their next appearance was on the stage of the Fayetteville High School, one
of the finest school buildings in the state. This was the scene of the greatest hit of the trip when
J. L. Fowle sang “No John No.” After the concert, the Orchestra and Glee Club were most delightfully entertained at
the home of Rev. Watson Fairley, pastor of the First Presbyterian church. The next point on the trip was Red
Springs, which was reached after a strenuous ride in Fords, because of a train wreck. The largest and most appreciative
audience of the trip greeted them here. The reception given after the concert by the Juniors and Seniors of the
college was highly enjoyed by all. Taken as a whole, the trip was a very successful one.

The members of the Civic League residing on South Main street are planting flower beds at the point where Academy
street separates from Main. The unsightly billboard at the station has been replaced by a wire fence, on which vines
will be planted.

Red and Black Lose
Emory Wins In Second Debate With Davidson

First Games of Season
Winning Streak Broken by A. & M. One Victory.

A. & M. GAME.

In a slow and loosely played game, Davidson was defeated by A. & M. Tuesday, the 11th, at Gastonia, by
a score of 11 to 7. It was a very long drawn out affair, darkness nearly stopping it before the
nine innings were finished. Errors were largely, if not entirely, responsible for Davidson's defeat. The whole Davidson infield made at
least one misplay, which paved the way for as many runs. Hengeveld was in the box for Davidson and pitched
good ball throughout the game despite the lack of support by his teammates. Evans was Coach Correll’s choice as a
slab artist, and for six innings was almost invincible, but in the seventh...and eighth, the Red and Black started a
belated rally and scored four runs, driving him from the box. Weathers, who replaced him, was able to stop the
rally without further damage. Johnson was the star for the locals with the bat, getting a triple and two singles
out of five attempts. Black also hit well, getting two hits out of three trips to the plate. The batting
of Winston and Sullivan featured for A. & M. Score by innings: R. H. E. A. & M. 031 024
010—11 8 2 Davidson 001 010 040— 7 7 9

FIRST TRINITY GAME

The team suffered its second defeat Thursday at Hickory, when Trinity won a fast and exciting game by a score
of 4 to 2. The game was a pitcher's battle between Lawson and Earnhardt, with honors in favor of the
latter. He allowed but three hits. The decided feature of the game came in the second inning. Saunders, first man
up, walked, and then McMillan connected with a fast one and completed the circuit before the opposing fielders could find
the ball. Both teams fielded in fine style, except for the two errors made by the locals in the early
part of the game. Flythe was the particular star for Trinity, getting two hits and making a sensational one-handed catch
of Black’s long fly.

SECOND TRINITY GAME

Davidson took a slugging match from Trinity College here last Friday by the score of 18 to 10. Shaw started
for Davidson, and after one bad inning, settled down and pitched good ball in the second. However, with Trinity holding
a 3 to 1 lead over Davidson, he was replaced by Hengeveld in the third. Trinity exhausted her supply of
twirlers in a vain effort to stem the tide of Davidson tallies, but to no avail. A total of fifteen
hits were registered by the locals; nine by Trinity. The visitors played a very ragged fielding game, and this contributed
largely to Davidson’s run-getting. Long hits abounded. In the ninth, Graham and Flythe each got three-baggers for Trinity. Brown got
a triple, and Johnson, Hengeveld, and Alford doubles for Davidson. Hengeveld stole two bases, as did McMillan. The tall center
fielder played a stellar game, accepting six chances faultlessly.

(Continued on page 4)

Large Audience Hears Contest at Agnes Scott

Stressing the argument that the English government both in theory and in fact is from the king and lords down
to the people while the American system is from the people up, Emory won the negative of the question: “Resolved,
That the British System of Government is more Democratic than that of the United States,” in the second debate with
Davidson, held at Agnes Scott College last Monday evening, April 17th. Both teams were in good form and drew forth
frequent applause from the large audience which crowded the auditorium.

J. G. PATTON

Patton opened the debate for the affirmative, calling attention to the fact that the question should be considered only in
the light of pure democracy, and stressing the fact that the point at issue was not which form is the
best, but which most nearly expresses the will of the majority of the people. He outlined that the affirmative proposed
to show that the British government is more democratic than that of the United States in all three branches, the
legislative, the executive, and the judicial. He then quoted from such authorities as Mill, Ogg, and Woodrow Wilson to show
that the ballot in England is less restricted than in the United States. He then demonstrated that Congress, after being
disproportionately elected, conducts its business through committees which deliberate behind closed doors and which are accountable to no one.

F. H. SMITH

F. H. Smith, the second speaker on the affirmative, argued that in the executive and judicial branches of the government,
the British are more democratic. He quoted Bagehot, the eminent political economist, who says that the English King has only
the “right to be (Continued on page 4)
