| Literary Societies | SCHEDULE. Debate, Saturday night, October 28th: “Resolved, that Hughes should be elected at the next Presidential election.” Eumenean — Affirmative: Potts, Johnson, Orgain, Hudson. Negative: Burns, Humphrey, Jenkins, Patterson. Philanthropic — Affirmative: McKeithen, W. H. Neal, Ratchford, Spence, Alexander, J. W. McAlister. Negative: Clark, Dunlap, Grey, Kornegay, Richardson, Boney. Declamations and Orations, November 6th: Eumenean — Declamations: Matthews, Miller, Hollandsworth. Orations: Keesler, King, Morton. Philanthropic — Declamations: R. W. Leyburn, W. C. Monroe, Thames, R. Robinson, Stagner, Neel, Wilson. Orations: Murray, T. N. Morton, H. Stone, Paisley. WEEKLY MEETINGS Due to the fact that the Woodrow Wilson Day speeches were to have been held last Saturday night, the Literary Societies postponed the regular debate until Monday morning, doing away with the regular Monday morning exercises. In the Eumenean Society, the question: “Resolved, That the President of the United States should be elected for a term of six years and be ineligible for re-election,” was upheld on the affirmative by Brown, Carwile, Huneycutt and Morton, and on the negative by Cousar, McCloy, Bennett and Craig. The decision, both of the house and judges, was in favor of the negative. In the Philanthropic Society, Peters, Maddrey, Calhoun and Carriker upheld the affirmative and Siske, Williamson and Dawkins argued for the negative. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative and the house in favor of the negative. The points brought out by the affirmative were, that with the present system of the first four years, the President takes about one year to get familiar with his work and most of the last two years is spent in putting himself before the minds of the people in preparation for re-election; that one four-year term is too short, but if the President had six years of uninterrupted work he could put through all his plans of government wisely and fearlessly. And that the present system sets no limit upon the number of times. The negative contended that one term of six years would not be a wise plan, because should we get an unscrupulous President in office, realizing that he would not have to account to the people in another election, he would rule as he saw fit, impeachment being the only method for getting him out of office; that past experience has proven the present system a success, and that, as a rule, the best presidents are re-elected, and, in that case, eight years would be better than six. BOOKLOVERS’ CLUB MEETS. The regular meeting of the Booklovers’ Club was held last Friday with Miss Mamie Withers. The study of the life of Tolstoi was continued with a very interesting article by Mrs. W. R. Grey, who had charge of the program. Mrs. Grey's subject was “Why Is Tolstoi Famous?” Her discussion was interesting and enjoyed by those present. About fifteen members of the club were in attendance at this meeting of the club. The next meeting will be held next Friday at the home of Miss Maude Vinson. DAVIDSONIAN, November 1, 1916 DAVIDSONIAN, November 1, 1916 MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES — REFINEMENT and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found in the home where there is The Stieff Piano. Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan. Stieff Charlotte, N.C. 219 S. Tryon St. When that speech is ready, bring it to me and get it Typewritten. Seniors! ACCURATE WORK--BEST PRICES No. 2 Rumple A. S. POTTS DAVIDSON SCRUBS TIE CHARLOTTE H. S. 12-12 In what is thought to have been one of the best games played in Charlotte since the opening of the gridiron season, the Scrubs played the strong C. H. S. team to a tie game last Saturday, the score being 12-12. During the second quarter neither team scored, although the Scrubs had the ball on High’s 3-yard line with first down. The Davidson boys came back strong in the12-12. The Highs began the scoring with a touchdown by Captain Wilson in the first quarter. Pharr failed to kick goal. In the third quarter, rushing the Highs off their feet and scoring after a minute’s play, Davidson’s kick-off went over the line and was brought out to the 20-yard line. Pharr’s attempt to punt netted only 10 yards. A series of line plunges and end runs brought the ball to Highs’ 20-yard line, and McAlister carried the ball over for a touchdown. Failing to kick goal, the score stood 6 to 6. Davidson then came back with a mighty rush and it looked as if another touchdown was inevitable, but when they had the ball on the 25-yard line, Templeton intercepted a forward pass and ran 90 yards for a touchdown. Pharr failed to kick goal. During the last quarter, the Red and Black carried the ball 35 yards down the field to the 19-yard line, where Singleton carried the ball over for Davidson's second touchdown. Failing to kick goal, the score stood 12-12. The whistle blew with the ball in the center of the field, and both teams fighting with renewed strength for another touchdown. The stars for the Scrubs were McAlister, Singleton, Patterson, and Robson; for Highs, Wilson, Barnett, Cochrane, and Templeton.

The line-up:
DAVIDSON | POSITION | CHARLOTTE
Singleton | fullback | Barnett
McAlister | right half | Templeton
Patterson | left half | Wilson
Robson (C) | quarter | McDonald
McKinnon | right end | Cochrane
G. Hobson | right tackle | Raker
C. Grey | center | Pharr
Long | left tackle | Miller
Monroe | left end | Culp
Crouch | left guard | McMaster

Referee: Abernathy, Wake Forest; Umpire: Matterding, Notre Dame; Head lineman: Lee, Clemson; Time of quarters: 15 minutes.

Substitutions—High School: Wearn for Miller; Warren for Wearn, Little for Pharr, Pharr for McDonald, Kirkpatrick for Warren. Scrubs: Brady for Coffey, White for McAlister.

SAVE YOUR TIN-FOIL. At Agnes Scott, where Davidson holds her debates with Emory, the Alumnae Association has a novel way of aiding worthy students who need financial assistance. They collect and sell tin-foil and turn the proceeds into the Alumnae Aid League Fund. From this fund, money is loaned to worthy students. The students of Agnes Scott, the Alumnae, and friends of the college collect tin-foil and find it worthwhile. It is hoped that Davidson men will be glad to give to Agnes Scott the tin-foil which they ordinarily throw away, and boxes will be placed in front of the dormitories to receive the tin-foil.