Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

Staff:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
S. T. McCloy, W. M. Hall, M. Tremaine, T. E. Guy, W. E. Hennessee, C. P. Karriker, O. C. Williamson, F. P. Hall, Jr., H. K. Aiken, Jr., R. E. McClure, J. T. Maddrey, J. W. Harrison, E. J. McIntire, W. T. Johnson, Jr., H. T. Lilly, W. C. Cumming.

Management:
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr. Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

Anyone who will take the trouble to read carefully the Senior Oration subjects which appeared in last week's DAVIDSONIAN cannot help being struck by the fact that they are so wide in scope. At best fourteen of them deal with world issues and international questions, while many others border on the same line of thought. Furthermore, this number has gradually increased year by year. This is not a coincidence, it points to a fact. The mind of the modern, educated, thoughtful man is turning away from the “ego” to the “frater.” Students are coming more and more to realize that at the present day, the great life is not only one of service, but one of world service. That such a spirit is growing is shown by the fact that the number of volunteers to the foreign missionary field has steadily increased, that $150,000 is being raised by students of America for war prisoners in Europe, by the formation of Polity clubs, and other things. And this spirit should rightly increase. The time will soon come when not only Woodrow Wilson, John R. Mott and a few others, will be known as “world citizens,” but every man who wishes to be a leader. And college students, the leaders of the next generation, cannot realize this too acutely.

As Senior Speaking is beginning to loom upon the horizon of the students’ thoughts, and the writing of orations becomes no longer an anticipation but a grim reality, it is to be hoped that Seniors will profit by last year’s experience, and begin to learn their speeches soon enough. Nothing so embarrasses a speaker or audience, or so detracts from the interest and pep of a speech, as not knowing it well. Several of last year’s Juniors had never once recited their orations perfectly before they arose upon the dreaded occasion when memory tends to flit away. May no speaker have to refer to his paper, or even stop to recall, this year.

T. M. Misenheimer spent Sunday in Charlotte with parents.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 22, 1916

MR. ERWIN SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. MEETING

The Young College Man Who appreciates smartness in dress will find here the correct apparel—“Pinch Back” and English Effects tailored by the best makers of Young Men’s Clothes.

At the regular weekly meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on Thursday night, Rev. Mr. Erwin, pastor of the local Methodist church, was the speaker. Mr. Erwin chose as his subject “The How of Prayer,” pointing out the way in which prayer should be made in order that it be effective. The first point emphasized was humility, the attitude in which we should come to God, asking Him for forgiveness for sin. Next comes faith that God is able and willing to hear and give what is best for us, although that best may not seem to us to be the thing which we have desired. Thankfulness to God for the blessings that we enjoy and for God's treatment of us was...also given as an essential of prayer. Still another point was that there must be an honest purpose in prayer in order that it may be heard. In closing, the speaker appealed to his audience for a greater attention to prayer as the thing which keeps us in contact with God, enables us to learn what He wishes in regard to our lives, and gives us strength to follow that life’s pathway day by day.

LOOKING BACKWARD.

ONE YEAR AGO.
Erskine and Davidson divide tennis match, Erskine winning doubles after a hard fight, but losing singles. Galloway and Bowden, representing Erskine, played Saunders and Alford, of Davidson. An opportunity was given to Davidson students to aid war sufferers by a free-will offering. Horner loses the second game with Davidson Scrubs by a score of 42-7. For Davidson, Ives, Crouch, Hill, Fowle, and Burns played a good game; for Horner, Hines, Cleek, and Weston were the stars, Hines making a seventy-yard run through the Scrubs for a touchdown. Carolina defeats Davidson in football 41-6, superior weight and experience being too much for the Davidson line. McDonald stars for Carolina.

TWO YEARS AGO.
All contracts for Annual awarded. Mr. Roy Morse given all photographic work, the Electric City Engraving Company, of Buffalo, N. Y., given the engraving work, and Foote & Davies, of Atlanta, given the printing. The South Carolina Club holds a banquet with forty-five members present, W. M. Shaw presiding. W. A. Dumas discovers a human skull in one of the big columns in front of Chambers building.

LAW CLUB ORGANIZED.
Last Tuesday night in 66 Chambers a Law Club was organized with the following officers: John Pharr, Chief Justice, and S. C. Harris, Reviewer. The club is to be known as the Review of Reviews. After the organization, an instructive paper was presented by S. C. Harris on some extracts from the Law Giver, Doty. The object of the club is to study the lives of great lawyers. The following are the charter members: “Professor” Shaw (alias “Turk”), “Blackstone” Walker, “Gladstone” Black, “Literary” Saunders, “Bacon” Walker, “Thomas Jefferson” Harris, “Archibald” Pharr, “Charles E.” Paisley, and “Cole B.” Watkins. Meetings will be held at various intervals, at which times papers will be read from the works of great lawyers.

Owing to several unavoidable delays, the announcement of the winning Davidson song in the contest inaugurated a month or so ago cannot be made this week, but full announcement will appear in next week’s issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.