The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III.

Dr. Snell Gives Two Interesting Addresses
Speaks to Y. M. C. A. and to Medical Club of Work in China.

Dr. Snell, who is at home on furlough from the mission fields of China, gave a very interesting and beneficial talk to the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night on mission study. Dr. Snell brought out the fact that the world is in great need of a broader knowledge of missions. He said that in order for a person to have a liberal education he must have a knowledge of missions. The business man as well as all other men should take an interest in and hear more about the work in the mission fields. The further statement was made that the studying of missions is the studying of the Kingdom of God, and that it is a Christian's duty and privilege to study and learn of God's work in the home and foreign fields, giving in this connection testimonials of a number of Y. M. C. A. supporters as to the usefulness and necessity of mission study.

Dr. Snell, while in this country, is devoting his time to giving these lectures in behalf of the work in the foreign fields. The meeting here was largely attended. Dr. Snell also met with the Volunteer Band twice and gave them interesting talks. On Friday night he gave a very interesting talk to the Medical Club. The time was taken up mainly with the discussion of how the medical work was carried on in China. Diseases are very prevalent in China, particularly intestinal diseases, which have to be fought vigorously by the physicians. Snell showed that the work in China is not at all distasteful, as some might imagine, but is carried on very much as it is in America today. The hardships connected with the medical life there are very few, as compared with those of the American doctor who sets out to practice medicine in this country with everything against him. Here, in fact, the older doctors of the community are jealous of the young practitioner, and seek rather to discourage him than to help him along. In China none of this is found, and the opportunity is many times greater for doing a noble work. The ideal of “The Great Physician” can be more nearly realized in that country than in America. Dr. Snell closed his address with an appeal for medical missionaries to go out under the Rockefeller Foundation Fund to aid in the work in China.

SOPH BANQUET PLANS.

A meeting of the Soph class was held Saturday afternoon for the purpose of discussing plans for the Soph Banquet. Several short speeches were made by different members of the class, setting forth the importance of the banquet and urging all the members to be present. Out of about 60 members present, 58 signified their intention of going. R. B. McKee, the manager, stated that he had not definitely decided where, in Charlotte, the banquet should be held, but that it would probably be at the Mecklenburg or the Selwyn hotel.

Varsity Five Loses to Elon; Defeats A. & M.
First Contest Close Till Last Minutes of Play.

ELON GAME.

In a hard-fought game last Tuesday night, Davidson was defeated by the Elon quintet on the home floor by a score of 25 to 17. From the first whistle to the end, the playing was fast and furious. Davidson's defeat lay in her inability to shoot foul goals. The first half was characterized by brilliant playing on both sides and ended with a score of 12-12. The second half was a series of fouls for both sides, but of the 19 attempts, R. T. Bradfield for Elon secured 13 goals, whereas Davidson shot only 3 out of 13 attempts. For Davidson, King, and for Elon, Bradford and Beard, did stellar work. A large crowd witnessed the game.

Line-up:
Davidson. Childs
Elon. J. Bradfield
Position. right forward
R. T. Bradfield left forward
King Hengeveld Beard center
Reese Morrison right guard
Younger Sorrells left guard
Substitutions: Walker for Younger, Wood for Childs.

THE A. AND M. GAME.

Coach Kluttz and his aggregation of basketball tossers journeyed down to Charlotte Friday and added another game to the list of Davidson victories, trouncing North Carolina A. and M., of Raleigh, 30 to 18. With the whirlwind floor work for which they are noted and with the hitherto somewhat dimmed shooting eyes again in working trim, the Davidson quintet literally rushed the A. and M. five off their feet, and had the game well in hand at all times. At the opening of the first half, the Raleigh lads gave promise of a close and interesting game, neither side being able to cage the ball until ten minutes of play had passed. Then the Red and Black machine got its joints unkinked, and the fireworks started. Childs made the first goal, and from that moment points followed fast—for Davidson. The Aggies totaled one point in this half, while Davidson made eleven. The second half was a better exhibition all around. With much of the rough work eliminated, the two teams fought hard, the score for the half being 19 to 17, in favor of the Presbyterians. Captain Reese and Childs were the individual stars for Davidson, though it would be hard to overlook the work of the other three men when listing the luminaries. The whole team played stellar ball. For A. and M., Johnson and Dowd were the stars.

Line-up:
Davidson. Position, N. C. A. & M.
ChildsTemple forwards Hengeveld, Lindsay; center Reese (C), Mason (C), Younger; Lee, Johnson guards. (Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 26, 1916.

Interesting Lecture Delivered by Dr. Sledd
Professor of English at Wake Forest Speaks About Travels.

The college has been very fortunate in securing a number of able, interesting speakers to deliver lectures to the students this year. The first of these was the one delivered by Dr. Sledd, of the English department of Wake Forest College, last Friday night, on his recent travels in Europe. The lecture was humorous, interesting, and at the same time instructive. His purpose was to give his audience an insight into the character of the European peoples with whom he came in contact rather than the beauties of the countries themselves. He was not pessimistic in his views, nor was he over-optimistic, but gave the general facts just as they were.

He arrived in Ireland before the war started, when the Home Rule question was about to throw Great Britain into a civil war. He told in a most impressive way about the Irish and their troubles with England. Then he went to England and Scotland, and was in those countries when the great war broke out. He gave "Trade Rivalry" as Great Britain's motive for going into the war. He contrasted the British, French, and Italians, describing the British people as a fearless, cool, unemotional, and staunch people, and the French and Italians as an artistic, emotional, fickle, and sensational people.

After visiting Italy, Dr. Sledd went to Greece, where he was very much impressed with the art, architecture, and the old myth-famed places of that country. A little over a year ago, Dr. Sledd was elected a Fellow in the Kahn Foundation, this distinction carrying with it the sum of $3,000 to be used in foreign travel and study, and it was of this trip that he lectured.

On Friday evening, Mrs. Dr. Martin entertained at an informal dinner for Dr. Sledd, the other guests being Dr. and Mrs. Lingle and Dr. and Mrs. Fulton.

LITERARY SOCIETY NEWS.

ELECTIONS.

Monday morning, the Eumenean Society elected third-term officers: H. A. Scott, president; S. R. Keesler, vice-president; L. A. Chambliss, secretary; R. Perry, reviewer; F. H. Smith, valedictorian; L. A. Chambliss, respondent.

At a meeting of the Philanthropic Society on Monday morning, January 17, H. W. Ormand, of the Senior class, was elected valedictorian, and S. T. Henderson, of the Junior class, respondent.

CONTESTS.

The debating council announces the following schedule of debates and declamation contests to be held this Spring:

February 12—Finals for selecting debating team.
March 13—Preliminary Declamation contest.
March 27—Finals Fresh-Soph Declamation contest.
April 3—Preliminary Junior-Senior debate.
April 17—Finals Junior-Senior debate.
May 1—Fresh-Soph debate.

(Continued on page 4)

No. 15.

Inter-Class Football Contests Are Started
Sophs Tie Seniors and Juniors Are Defeated by Fresh.

Saturday afternoon on Sprunt Field, the Seniors and Sophomores met in the opening game of the inter-class football contests. Owing to the recent rains, the field was soft and treacherous, which made fast work impossible. Neisler, of the Seniors, opened the game by kicking off to Fowle, who returned 10 yards. The Sophs failed to gain and Fowle punted. D. Shaw, dropping back to his 3-yard line to punt, fumbled, and the Sophs recovered. The Seniors braced and held for downs. Quarter ended.

In the second quarter, Therrell, of the Sophs, tried for a field goal but failed. The remainder of the quarter was given over to exchanges of punts. The third quarter was a repetition of the second, neither side being able to gain consistently. Sparrow made a nice run of 15 yards, one of the longest of the game. In the fourth quarter, Worth made two runs of 30 and 10 yards each, which placed the ball on the 15-yard line. Here the Seniors held and the game ended shortly after. Sparrow and Craig were the stars for the Seniors, while Worth, Richardson, Linfield, and Fraser played the best game for the Sophs.

The line-up was:
Seniors. Position. Sophs.
McBryde...........L.E...........Richardson (C)
Thompson.........L.T...........Finley
Scott...............L.G...........Therrell
Edgerton..........C.............Clark
Craig...............R.G...........Cousar
Payne..............R.T...........Linfield
Smith...............R.E...........Thames
Clary...............R.H...........Armistead
Shaw, D...........Q.B...........Orr
Shaw, H...........F.B...........Fowle
Sparrow (C).....Q.B...........Jones

Substitutions—Sophs: Worth for Fowle, Fraser for Cousar. Seniors: Ormand for Clary, Bird for Scott, Perry for Smith, Johnson for Craig. Referee: Fetzer. Umpire: Kluttz.

JUNIOR-FRESH GAME.

In an exciting and hard-fought game, the Fresh defeated the Juniors 6 to 0 on Monday. The only touchdown was made by Johnston, who raced 45 yards over the line. Pickens and Johnston starred for the Fresh, while Porter did the best work for the Juniors.

First quarter: The Juniors kicked off to the Fresh. Neither team was able to score. However, the Juniors threatened when they barely missed a place kick from the 30-yard line.

Second quarter: The first part was an exchange of punts, but later the Juniors advanced to the 20-yard line. Here Alford failed to drop kick.

Second half: The Juniors kicked off again. Neither side could gain, and after an exchange of punts, Johnston intercepted a pass and on the next play ran 45 yards for a touchdown. The Juniors kicked off and the quarter ended without further scoring.

Fourth quarter: The Juniors started with a rush and went to the 10-yard line, but were unable to go across. The quarter ended shortly after.

(Continued on page 4)