The DAVIDSONIAN, November 22, 1916

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TO BE BETTER ORGANIZED

A great deal of interest has been taken lately in the Orchestra and Glee Club by the members to perfect a better organization and put things on a more businesslike basis. Heretofore there has been scarcely any organization, but a committee has been appointed composed of W. H. Neal, E. P. Childs, and J. R. Morton to draw up a constitution and by-laws, which it is believed will be adopted by the end of November. They propose to adopt a system of awarding pins, as the “Wearers of the D” to men who shall fulfill certain requirements, making a man work for a pin so it will be an honor to win one. It is also the idea of the rules and regulations to impose certain fines for unnecessary absences, tardiness, etc., at practice, and make certain conditions under which a man may make a trip.

The Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert at Queens College, Thanksgiving, and one on the Hill Saturday night of Senior Speaking. Friday of this week they will go to Lincolnton. The Queens Choral Club will give a concert next Spring here at Davidson under the auspices of the Orchestra and Glee Club.

ARTICLES WORTH READING IN CURRENT MAGAZINES

World's Work: Shall We Adopt Universal Military Service, Charles W. Eliot; Flying for France, James McConnell; How to Avoid Pneumonia, Charles Phelps Cushing; The Strange Case of Sydney Porter and O. Henry, C. Alphonso Smith.

Atlantic Monthly: Some Fallacies in the Modern Educational Scheme, Alfred E. Stearns; Alcohol and Life Insurance, Eugene Lyman Fiske.

Forum: Complete Change in Modern Warfare, by a British Army Expert; The Golden Kite, Patrick Gallagher.

Review of Reviews: Germany Strikes Rumania and Saves the Balkans, Frank H. Simonds; Arabs Versus Turks, Isaac Don Levine; Our New Navy, A. C. Laut.

North American Review: Democracy and Diplomacy, Philip Marshall Brown; Morality of Force, Hartley B. Alexander.

Harper's Weekly: The Dream of Universal Peace, Sydney Brooks; Industrial Efficiency and Political Waste, Charles P. Steinmetz.

FRESHMAN LECTURE

The regular semi-monthly lecture to the Freshmen was given on November 10th by Dr. J. M. McConnell. In his subject, “Gambling,” he explained the meaning of the word, saying that gambling was only legalized stealing, for the definition of stealing is taking another man’s property without giving value received, and this is exactly what a man does when he gambles. He impressed the fact that while some forms of gambling were legally right, they were morally wrong. Some of the evils of gambling were analyzed and it was shown that gambling led to worse things, for all gambling was derived from love of money, and love of money is the root of all evil. The Freshmen were also warned against matching at soda fountains and betting on games, for this leads to worse things. The speaker closed by asking the students to think this over and as a class to start a campaign against gambling in any form at Davidson by refraining from it themselves.

CLASS BASKETBALL (Continued from page 1)

FRESH-SOPH

In a game that was featured by numerous fouls and roughness, the Sophs overwhelmed the Fresh Monday night by a score of 24 to 5. The Fresh were kept on the defensive throughout the entire game, losing many chances to score, and only scoring during the last six minutes of play. The work of Alexander and Hall for the Sophs was of stellar nature, while Chalmers and Hall were the luminaries for the first-year men.

Sophs. Position. Fresh.
Hall (C) .......... McClerkin (C) Left Forward.
Potts ............. Chalmers Left Guard.
McAskill ................. Hall Center. Alexander... .. ...... .. .. Brown Right Forward. Andrews .: .. .. .. Brinkley Right Guard, McAskill 3, Hall 3, Alexander 4. Fresh Summary—Goals from field: Sophs, Potts, McAskill 3, Hall 3, Alexander 4; Fresh, Hall, McClerkin. Goals from foul: Sophs, Hall 2; Fresh, Hall. Length of halves, 20 minutes. Referees: R. Walker and Childs. Attendance 150.

TEAM STANDING.
Team. Won. Lost. P.C.
Sophs ........ 4 1 .800
Seniors .. .. .. .. 4 2 .666
Juniors .. .. .. .. 2 4 .333
Fresh .. .. .. .. 1 4 .200

The final game of the series will be played next Thursday night by the Sophs and Fresh. Should the Sophs lose this game they would be tied with the Seniors; if they win, they have the championship cinched.

MILITARY TRAINING IN CONNECTION WITH GYM
During the past week military training was instituted in the Fresh gymnasium classes. This is in connection with the regular gymnasium work and it is held at the same periods every week. K. F. Herrman is assisting P. B. Price, the regular gymnasium instructor, in the military drill. Herrman served eight years in the regular German army, with two and one-half years of active service in South Africa. With this experience he should be well fitted to instruct the classes in military drill. The Freshmen themselves seem to be well pleased with this innovation.

MISSIONARY PAGEANT.
The Young Woman's Missionary Society will have its annual Praise Meeting and Free-will Offering in Shearer Hall on Wednesday night, November 29th, at 8 o'clock. At this meeting a pageant, “The Saving of O Sada San,” illustrating Japanese missionary work, will be given. The missionary society together with several college students and some children from the Sunday School, will take part. Costumes and scenery made in Japan have been secured from the Committee in Nashville and will be used. Both townspeople and college students are invited to attend the meeting.

After a period of inactivity of about one year, the local branch of the Camp-Fire Girls will hold its first counsel meeting tomorrow. The name of this branch, “Wakichonze of Davidson,” has not been changed, although the re-organization has been complete. Instead of the former guardian, Miss Foreman, Miss Gordan Baskerville has taken charge of the work and will direct it in the future. At the meeting tomorrow four new members will be added. The outlook for a successful year is very bright.

HOTEL STONEWALL
The members of the HOTEL BUFFINE, - Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE
You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you. Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY
—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White ||M. H. GOODRUM Drug Company,|| & COMPANY
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Davidson Pressing Club
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

—Charlotte, N. C.—
Greensboro, N. C.

JUST RECEIVED EXTENSIVE LINE
King Quality Shoes
New Models

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines
LET US FIT YOU
Hotel — Central
Charlotte and Statesville
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
We cater to special trips for students
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN