The DAVIDSONIAN, September 27, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US

THE FORUM.

Washington and Lee—This university opened on September 14th with almost the expected enrollment of 520. At the first college assembly
of the year, held in Lee Memorial Chapel, President Henry Louis Smith welcomed the new and old students “to the
privileges of college life, its complex activities, its warm friendships, its means of intellectual development.” He closed with the statement
that there is no eight-hour day for the world’s leaders and that success can be obtained only by determined effort
and even monotonous drudgery.

The Guilfordian—An interesting feature of the opening week at Guilford College was a social held on the campus for the
new girls. Each girl walked down in front and signed her name in an autograph album while all the others
guessed who she was. The new girl knowing the most names was awarded the book of autographs as a prize.

The Forum in ancient Athens was the public meeting place; The Forum in The Davidsonian will be the public writing
place. If there are institutions, policies, traditions, or customs at Davidson which you would like to commend, do so in
these columns. And if there are, also, in the Student Body conditions, practices, or policies which you would like to
condemn, you are urged to do so in these columns. If there is any suggestion relating to student life or
activity, to the noble fighting of our gridiron athletes, to anything that you think might be of interest and of
benefit to others, utilize these columns. Write out in readable form what you have to say and hand it to
one of the editors. Our slogan will be: “Boost the good; condemn the bad; but whatever you do, be sure
to do it in a friendly way.” Anonymous names may be signed to the articles intended for publication; but the
real name must be known to the editors.

A LANDMARK REACHED

The old ship of college life, minus her last vestige of the hazing spirit, has steered straight thus far through
the collegiate year—and with the general atmosphere so changed that it is noticeable even to the least casual observer. At
the time the regime under which we are now living was voted on favorably, some said let us beware of
the kindergarten, others suggested that a matron be employed; but I can see in the action that was taken just
the change from prep schoolism to real college life. In after years we will not hear the members of the
class of 1920 tell of the hazing to which they fell prey, the subsequent bad beginning in their work, ending
finally in their leaving college; but of the hearty welcome which they received from upper-classmen, the splendid be-

Old Gold and Black—A new course in educational hygiene has been inaugurated this year at Wake Forest. This course deals
with the practical application of the study of hygiene.to the Armour Bros. & Thompson

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN — Danville, Va.

The needs of the individual will be especially suited to student life. The two literary societies are preparing to hold
a State High School Declamatory contest next April with valuable medals, pins, etc., as prizes.

* * *

The Trinity Chronicle—Trinity College is also looking forward to a new gymnasium.

The Tar Heel—Despite numerous causes that would tend to retard the growth of an institution, Carolina has more students this
year than at this same time last year, having a total of 1,137 students. The Freshman football team outweighs the
Varsity this year at North Carolina.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULES

September 30th—Wake Forest vs. A. & M. at Raleigh.
Roanoke College vs. Davidson vs. Virginia at Charlottesville, Va.
October 7th—A. & M. vs. Davidson at Charlotte.
Carolina vs. Guilford at Wake Forest.
October 14th—Carolina vs. Harvard at Cambridge.
Davidson vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
October 19th—Wake Forest vs. A. & M. at Raleigh.
October 21st—Davidson vs. Citadel at Davidson.
Carolina vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
October 28th—Carolina vs. V. M. I. at Chapel Hill.
Davidson vs. Roanoke College at Roanoke, Va.
Wake Forest (open).
November 4th—Carolina vs. V. P. I. at Roanoke, Va.
Davidson vs. South Carolina at Columbia.
A. & M. vs. Navy at Washington.
November 11th—Carolina vs. Davidson at Winston-Salem.
Wake Forest vs. V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
Wofford at Wake Forest.
November 18th—Wake Forest vs. Davidson at Raleigh (pending).
November 25th—Wake Forest vs. Mercer at Greensboro.
November 30th (Thanksgiving)—Carolina vs. Virginia at Richmond.
A. & M. vs. W. & L. at Raleigh.
Davidson vs. Clemson at Charlotte.

This is not foolish question No. 289,347; but a serious inquiry to know the reason why we cannot here at
Davidson, where President Woodrow Wilson was once a student, organize a large and enthusiastic Wilson-Marshall Club. Such clubs have been
organized, or soon will be, at all of the larger colleges and universities of the nation. And shall Davidson, the
President's once alma mater, fail to show him that we approve of his policies and would like to see them
in vogue for another four years? I would like to suggest that a meeting be called after supper on some
evening next week and formal steps taken toward the organization of a Wilson-Marshall Club at Davidson.

Atticus.

LEST WE FORGET

I am asking space in the columns of The Forum, Mr. Editor, to urge all D. C. boys, lest they
forget, to show the proper appreciation to our gridiron warriors in the determined fight which they will begin Saturday, to
make a glorious record for “Old Davidson.” You will not read lengthy bulletins from “Bill” Fetzer’s headquarters as to what
Davidson's chances are, how much we will beat our opponents, etc., because “Coach” is a man of deeds, not words;
but you may rest assured that the defenders of the Red and Black are going to fight to the last
inch, be the results what they may. Here’s to the team of 1916! We know that you will do a
man’s part, and more we would not ask.

E. H. Linfield, ex-’18, will enter Tulane University this year to take the medical course.

HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
New Line of Haberdashery and Shoes
We appreciate your trade
