: WITH THE ALUMNI : The DAVIDSONIAN, October 18, 1916

BANQUET GIVEN TO TEAM.

On Saturday night, after the game with Georgia Tech, the Atlanta chapter of Davidson alumni tendered the members of the “Little Red Machine” a banquet at the Georgian Terrace. At 7:30 a five-course dinner was served, during which several speeches were made by alumni. After the conclusion of the dinner, Mr. H. L. Caldwell, president of the Atlanta Association, in a few well-chosen words complimented the team on its work in the game and expressed the hope that this game may become an annual event in Atlanta. On behalf of the team and the college, Coach Fetzer replied, thanking the association for their hospitality and speaking of the faithfulness of the team and Student Body in the work of producing the team which was representing the college. Captain White was the next speaker, expressing the wish that the Atlanta alumni could have been present at the A. & M. game. These were followed by short speeches from Sayad, Black, and Keesler. Sayad's accounts of the Persians who have attended Davidson opened a pleasant period of discussion of these men who were remembered by many of the alumni present at the banquet. Another enjoyable speech of the evening was made by Prof. Wm. G. Perry, of Tech, who is a Davidson man class of ’98. He was followed by O. J. Huie, who while in college was one of our football stars. At a quarter of nine, the meeting was concluded.

* * *

The following with reference to the work of A. M. McKeithen, ‘16, who is now at Johns Hopkins and who has made a place on the eleven of that university, will be of interest:

“With Leadbetter in togs, and a week more of training for both Micklewaite and McKeithen, who played on Saturday with only a few days of work, the Hopkins line looks good on paper, and certainly much stronger than the one which appeared at Homewood against the Emmertsburg team. With this trio of experienced men together, and Schmidt to fill the guard and tackle positions, and Funk and Gorman on the ends, the future looks much brighter.”

* * *

Two other Davidson men who are now at Hopkins are Wm. Hollister, '16, and J. R. (“Big”) Dunn, ‘15, both of whom are in the medical department. Hollister’s address is 1028 North Broadway, Baltimore, Md.

Mr. W. J. Hamilton, ex-‘10, will be in Charlotte at an early date with the “Arkansas on Wheels Train,” which is touring the South with an exhibit of the products of Arkansas.

* * *

A RECENT LETTER FROM MR. PARKER.

The following are extracts from a letter received a few days ago from Rev. W. P. Parker, of Mokpo, Korea. Mr. Parker is of the class of ‘11, and the Student Body for the last few years has been contributing to the support of his work:

Mokpo, Korea, Sept. 13, 1916.

Dear Davidson Boys:

It is fall again, and we are having some cooler weather just now, though the hot weather may not be altogether over. We hope it is, and we hope the rain is over with, too, but we have had so much even very lately that we cannot be expected to be over-optimistic about it. Heavy downpours washed part of the railroad track away again, and we have not had communication by rail with Seoul for several days. They say the trains will all run today, however.

The Boys’ School opened August 25, and we are much encouraged with the prospect of a good year, except for the financial end, which we are trusting to our Heavenly Father, of course doing all in our power besides. Some problems have come up in that direction now as you may know, and we need your prayers very especially that the work may not suffer for lack of funds. The boys from the country are coming in well; we already have seventeen dormitory boys, and more are to come in very soon; we would have two or three times as many if we could only get work for them and accommodate them with sleeping space.

The Girls’ School opened today with an enrollment of fifty-two, and four more wanted to enter, but Mrs. Nisbet was undecided whether to take them. The rains kept two of the teachers from getting back on time, but they ought to be all in tonight. While Mrs. Nisbet was at home she received a very unexpected gift of $1,000 for extra dormitory building, and this will soon be finished now, when twice the number of girls now in can be accommodated. We are all mighty proud of the work our Girls’ School is doing, and of what it has meant to so many girls from all over the Mokpo territory, and through them to the villages in which they live; for if a girl is brought in from a heathen village and trained, she goes back and teaches and brings Christ home to her own family and to others whom she can reach; and it means a great deal for believers to be able to train their girls as well as their boys, and give themopportunities that the women in this land have not known. Boys can get to school much easier than girls, naturally, and — the Japanese are doing more towards training the former (though not, of course, Christian training, which we try to give in our schools), so that we feel that our greatest school work is that for the girls. Don't forget to remember the Korean work and missionaries in your prayers. How richly our Heavenly Father is blessing us here in this land. What a glorious privilege it is to have however small a part in His work. With every sincerest best wish from all of us. As ever, Cordially yours, Wm. P. Parker.

HANDBOOKS HAVE ARRIVED.

The Handbook, which is published annually by the Y. M. C. A., arrived last Thursday, after having been in the hands of the publishers for about two weeks. In it can be found a directory of the students, a list of those who are holding an office of any kind, and much general and practical information. These books are given free to each student and those who have not already received them can secure the same at the Commissary.

The Davidson

DAVIDSON YELLS.

1. Riffity-riffity, riff, raft,
Chiffity-chiffity, chiff, chaff,
Riff-raff, chiff-chaff.
Let’s give ’em the horse laugh,
Heeee! Haw! Carolina.

2. Red and Black, Red and Black,
Davidson! Cracker-jack!

3. s-8-5-+s— BOOM !!
DAV-ID-SON!
Oskey-wow-wow!
Skinny-wow-wow!
Wow! Wow! Davidson!

VOLUNTEERS SPEAK AT Y.M.C.A. MEETING

The Y. M. C. A. meeting for last week was turned over to the Volunteer Band. J. R. Woods, ‘18, acted as leader, and conducted the services in the usual manner. Three prominent volunteers made short talks. P. B. Price, ‘17, was the first speaker. Price, having spent a greater part of his life in China, gave some very interesting accounts about the life of missionaries in the foreign field. Preacher, doctor, teacher and all are busily engaged in looking after the moral, mental, and physical welfare of those entrusted to them. He also showed that although the life of the missionary is a busy one, yet it is a very happy one. W. C. Cummings, ‘18, was the next speaker, and told why he had enlisted as a volunteer. The last speaker was E. H. Hamilton, ‘17, who told of the duty and field of the volunteers. He illustrated his talk with a map showing what the missionaries had done and what there was yet to be accomplished. As a result of this meeting a greater interest in missions was aroused, and several new men were led to volunteer for the foreign field.

CAMPUSISMS.

S. C. Harris, of the Senior class, spent the week-end at Albemarle, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, of Salisbury, visited their son, Shannon Murphy, ‘20, on last Sunday.

Belk and Monroe, of the Freshman class, spent Sunday at Fort Mills.

W. T. Whitt and Roy Perry, ‘16, J. Kaw, ‘15, were on the Hill Sunday.

S. M. Curry, formerly of Emory College, entered the Junior class here a few days ago.

Quite a number of college men went down to Charlotte Monday to attend Ringling Brothers’ circus.

LYCEUM ATTRACTION GIVEN MONDAY NIGHT

A large audience composed of students and townspeople witnessed the first number of the Lyceum attraction rendered in Shearer Hall last Monday night, October 9th. Miss Grace Lawry and Miss Frances Lawrence gave the first number of the course. The program consisted of harp solos by Miss Lawrence, and musical readings by Miss Lowry. Miss Lowry is a graduate of Emerson School. The audience was moved to laughter many times by the comical selections she gave, while the opposite at other times was true, when she brought to memory the pathos of the Civil War. The solos of Miss Lawrence were especially striking and typical of the South.

MINISTERIAL BAND MEETS.

At the meeting of the Ministerial Band, Sunday evening, H. B. Dendy and H. B. Frazer made short talks on “Why I prefer the slums of the cities as my field of work.” Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers entertained the teachers and officers of the Presbyterian Sabbath school last Thursday evening. Dr. Richards and Dr. Sentelle made short informal addresses on the Sunday school work which were followed by a free discussion. The evening was closed with a social hour and refreshments.

REAL CONTENTMENT

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. G. Patterson, Representative