The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. III. Dr. Martin Returns From Interesting Trip Finally Announced DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 2, 1916.
Base Ball Schedule | News and Happenings of the Week in Town No. 16. Varsity Quint Makes Successful Trip Attends
Meeting in Chicago and Plans Are Not Completed, However | Social and Personal Items About | Won From Guilford and
Elon, But Secures Commencement Orator. Dr. Wm. J. Martin left Davidson on January 15 to attend the second annual meeting
of the Association of American Colleges, which was held in Chicago. He went from here to Griffin, Ga., where he
spent Sunday with Rev. Wm. A. Murray ('96), pastor of the Presbyterian church there, in which Dr. Martin spoke twice,
the morning address being in the interest of the college. In Chicago, Dr. Martin spent several days attending the meeting
of the Association of American Colleges, at which some 150 or more college presidents were present. The association is made
up of church and independent colleges, and does not include state institutions. Davidson is a member of the association. Dr.
Martin returned via Detroit, where he spent Sunday, January 23. From there he went down through the edge of Canada
to Niagara. While at Niagara he noticed the Canadian troops patrolling the frontier where there were bridges or factories. One
day was spent in Washington, where, with the kind assistance of Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy, and his
able secretary, Mr. Howard A. Banks ('88), he secured the promise of Hon. Jno. W. Barnet, President of the Bureau
of American Republics, to make the Commencement address for Davidson, provided he is not called to South America.

PRELIMINARIES FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATES The preliminaries for the debates with Erskine and Emory were held in the society halls Tuesday,
January 24. Those selected to debate in the final were: in the Eumenean, Chambliss, Patton, Smith, F. H., Scott, and
Woods, J. R., alternate; in the Philanthropic, Cummings, Thames, Neal, and Ratchford, with D. Shaw as alternate. The finals will
be held in Shearer Hall, February 12. The subject to be used in the finals is the question for the
Erskine debate: “Resolved, That the President’s Ship Purchase Bill should be adopted by Congress.” At this time the two teams
to represent Davidson against Emory and Erskine will be chosen. The preliminaries for the Junior-Senior Debate will be held April
3. The subject for discussion will be: “Resolved, That an amendment to the Federal Constitution should be enacted in favor
of National Prohibition.” The Fresh-Soph Debate will be held May 1, using the subject: “Resolved, That the United States and
Great Britain should form an offensive and defensive alliance.”

TEACHING POSITIONS Dr. J. M. McConnell is chairman of the faculty committee which has in charge the matter of securing
teaching positions for graduates of Davidson. Any students or alumni who are expecting to teach should see or write Dr.
McConnell and fill out the blank which he will furnish. This matter should be taken up with him as soon
as possible.

--Shows Eleven Games on Hill. BASE BALL SCHEDULE R. G. Finley, manager of the baseball team, announces that to date
the following games have been scheduled for this spring. This schedule is not complete, but is merely the dope to
date. March 28—Catawba at Davidson. March 30—Oak Ridge at Davidson. March 31—Elon at Davidson. April 1—Wake Forest at Charlotte. April
5—Weaver at Davidson. April 6—Richmond at Davidson. April 7—Guilford at Davidson. April 8—Guilford at Spencer, N.C. April 10—Wofford at Davidson.
April 11—A. & M. at Gastonia. April 12 (pending)—North Carolina at Charlotte. April 13—Trinity at Statesville. April 14—Trinity at Davidson.
April 15—Maryville at Davidson. April 17-22 (pending)—A trip through South Carolina, including four games. April 24—Guilford at Greensboro. April 25—Elon
at Elon College. April 26—Trinity at Durham. April 27—Wake Forest at Wake Forest. May 6—Open at Davidson. May 11—Washington &
Lee at Davidson.

While basketball is at present foremost in the athletic world at Davidson, not a few students are already anticipating the
coming baseball season. Even now on the warmer afternoons students may be seen on the campus tossing the horse-hide. When
practice is called, which will probably be towards the last of February, there will be a large number to report,
and there should be some keen rivalry for the different positions. Besides Alford, Saunders, Lawson, Wood, Black, Hengeveld, Brown, Keesler,
and Walker, of last year’s squad, there are several new men who are expected to show up well. The manager
has arranged an excellent schedule, having games with the leading colleges of the South. Eleven games are to be played
on the “Hill.” Among the teams that will appear here are Washington and Lee, Guilford, and Trinity.

COMMENCEMENT DATE IS ANNOUNCED Commencement will begin this year with the Baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, May 28. During the two
days following there will occur the usual round of events, and on Wednesday the Commencement exercises proper will be held.
Because of the rains on last Saturday and because of re-exams on Monday, the class football games which were to
have been played on those dates have been postponed. They will probably be played off during the week.

the Village People. Miss Bettie Windley, of New Bern, a graduateof Goucher College, and Mrs. Stover, of Wilmington, N. C.,
are the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle. Miss Windley and Mrs. Stover are both officers in the State Federation
of Women's Clubs. Dr. Arbuckle spoke at the Westminster church, Charlotte, last Sunday night in connection with the North Carolina
Social Service Conference.

Six members of the faculty attended services of the North Carolina Social Service Conference which met last week in Charlotte.

Dr. Lingle has been invited to again become a director of the Summer School at Montreat, N. C., this year.

Rev. Mr. Gillis, a returned missionary from Siam, addressed the annual praise meeting of the Women's Missionary Society which was
held at the Civic League hall last Thursday night.

Rev. and Mrs. C. A. Monroe, of Hickory, N. C., spent last week with their daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Robinson visited at the home of Mr. B. R. Smith last week. Mr. Robinson is
the father of S. W. Robinson (119).

Miss Blanche Erwin gave a birthday party on the evening of the 24th at the Methodist parsonage, entertaining quite a
number of young people.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Knox left last week for St. Petersburg, Fla. They expect to be in the South
some weeks.

Mrs. Thompson Brown, of Rock Hill, S. C., was the week-end guest of Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

The Neel residence, on North Main street, has been purchased by Miss Julia Johnston. After the interior has been renovated,
Miss Johnston and her parents expect to make their home there.

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained on Friday afternoon, January 28, at the home of Mrs. W. J. Martin. Dr.
J. M. McConnell lectured to the club on three Russian cities: Moscow, Warsaw, and Petrograd. His lecture was concluded with
an account of the present German-Russian campaigns.

Mr. James Lee Sloan, who for several years has been secretary and treasurer for the Delburg Cotton Mill, was elected
to a similar office in the Linden Manufacturing Company, on Friday, January 28. It is understood that he will perform
the duties of both offices. In the Linden Mill, he succeeded Mr. Frank J. Knox, resigned.

The Woman's Missionary Society of the Presbyterian church will meet in the Sunday school room Wednesday afternoon at 4 o'clock.

Defeated by Winston Y. M.C.A.

In the first game of a three-day road trip, Davidson swamped Guilford College, playing at Guilford, by the score of
49 to 26. The game was replete with fouls, Davidson gleaning 9 points by this route, while Guilford totaled 12.
For Davidson, the whole team, as usual, played such consistent ball that it would be hard to single out any
one “star.” King and Hengerveld, however, put up a brand of ball that deserves special mention, with Eddie Childs cashing
in his usual quota of points. For Guilford, T. Seamans played the best game. The line-up:

Davidson (49) Position Guilford (26)
King........ Forward . . C. Seamans
Childs........ Forward... .. Worth
Hengeveld.....Centre . 0.2... Shaw
Reese(c)......Guard 20.0, Walser
Younger. ..... Guard... . T. Seamans

Substitutions: Wood for Childs; Walker for Younger; Carson for Reese; Mendlehoff for Shaw. Field goals: King 7, Childs 5, Hengeveld
4, T. Seamans 4, Reese 2, Younger, Wood, C. Seamans, Worth, Shaw, Mendlehoff. Foul goals: Reese 9, Worth 12. Referee,
Doak, of U. of N.C.

ELON GAME.

With both teams playing whirlwind ball, and every man putting everything he had into the game, Davidson evened up the
score with Elon by taking the second game of the trip from Elon College, 23 to 18. Davidson had all
the pep and steam which was lacking in their first encounter with Elon here, and in consequence easily defeated the
down-staters. Childs played an especially fast game, garnering nearly half of Davidson’s points. For Elon, R. T. Bradford played excellent
ball. Line-up:

Davidson (23) Position Elon (18)
King........ Forward . J. M. Bradford
Childs....... Forward R. T. Bradford
Hengeveld... Centre... 0... Beard
Reese........ Guard .... . Seawell
Younger..... Guard . 2... Morrison

Substitutes: Smith for Seawell; Wood for King; Walker for Younger. Field goals: Childs 5, R. T. Bradford 3, Hengeveld 2,
King, Younger, Wood, J. M. Bradford, Beard, Morrison, Smith. Foul goals: Reese 3, R. T. Bradford 3, Beard 3. Referee:
Stockton.

WINSTON Y. M. C. A.

In a nip-and-tuck game that was not decided until the last whistle echoed, Davidson lost the third game of her
three-day jaunt to the Winston-Salem Y. M. C. A. to the tune of 34-33. When the timekeeper’s whistle blew for
the end of the final period, Hengeveld had just tossed the ball from the center of the court, and it
had not yet reached the goal. When it did, it went through, but the referee ruled that it did not
count. Had it been allowed to count, the Red and Black would have registered a third victory, 35-34. The outstanding
feature of the game was the sensational playing of “Monk” Younger, who, guarding one of the best forwards in the
state, held him to two (Continued on page 4)
