The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II

Strong Address Given On Social Service
Mr. A. W. McAlister Delivers Lecture to Students.

A large number of students and townspeople had the pleasure of hearing Mr. A. W. McAlister, of Greensboro, give an
interesting lecture on "Social Service" last Friday night in Shearer Hall. Dr. J. M. McConnell introduced the speaker as an
old friend of Davidson and a prominent citizen of Greensboro. Mr. McAlister opened his address by saying: We should all
ask ourselves this question, “Am I Prepared?”

Mr. McAlister showed how Christian Religion prepared for life and success in matters of adjustment and creation around it. He
continued by saying that we must be prepared to meet the responsibilities, and to get the knowledge, and enjoy its
benefits. “If this is our goal,” said the speaker, “and if it is worth striving for, let us get at
the bottom of it and find what relation the Christian Church bears to our lives and the world around us.

“Every century has its achievements. This century is one of socialistic accomplishments." He further stated that the church was the
great social center and that it had failed to reach the great masses as it should. Sixty-five percent of the
people of the South are untouched by the church, and only one out of every five of the working men
are reached by the influences of the church. The church has chosen a method Christ never knew. She must go
down and dwell among men. The poor and belated are ours. Let us get down to the world and not
let the world have to come to us. He pointed out very clearly that the conditions of the church must
be greatly improved if we accomplish the desired end we are working for.

“There is a part of our everyday life that the church does not touch, it has not placed the proper
emphasis on Christian Character. The church must get back into the world and redeem it, she must take her place
at the front and lead. Hundreds of years ago it was different. The church and state were connected. Many of
the serious problems of today are the direct results of non-interference in politics. Children are the raw material of society
which makes victims, and loafing places destroy what the street churches and homes have done.”

Among other things, Mr. McAlister said in closing: “Let us take advantage of our opportunities and responsibilities and be ready
when Christ comes unto His own.”

JITNEY BUS LINE NOW IN OPERATION

On Monday an auto bus line was started between Mooresville and Charlotte. A very attractive twelve-passenger Buick will make several
round trips each day, passing through Davidson en route. The United Motor Line is in charge of the project. Fare
from Davidson to Charlotte is 50 cents, and from Davidson to Mooresville, 10 cents. The schedule for these trips is
given in the advertisement by this company which appears in this issue.

Local Bank Bought By Davidson Men
Institution to Be Reorganized As State Bank of Davidson.

Announcement is made that the local branch of the American Trust Company is to change hands. A number of local
men, among them Drs. J. W. McConnell and J. M. Douglass, and Messrs. C. L. Grey, Cloyd Potts, M. H.
Goodrum, F. L. Jackson, and others, have acquired control of this local bank and will reorganize it as the State
Bank of Davidson. A charter was applied for and has been granted. At a meeting of the stockholders on Monday
night the following officers were elected: Directors, J. L. Douglas, J. R. Withers, A. L. Hobbs, M. H. Goodrum, Dr.
Jno. W. McConnell, C. A. Potts, J. Lee Sloan, C. L. Grey, and J. P. Monroe. By-laws were adopted. Mr.
W. H. Thompson was elected as cashier; J. L. Douglas, president; J. Lee Sloan, vice-president, and C. A. Potts, assistant
cashier. A finance committee consisting of J. L. Douglas, J. R. Withers, and M. H. Goodrum was also elected. These
new owners will take charge and make the change of name and officers as soon as stock has been paid
in and transfer from American Trust Co. to the State Bank of Davidson is made and permission is granted by
the State Corporation Commission.

The local bank was organized as a branch of the American Trust Company twelve years ago, and Mr. W. H.
Thompson has been its cashier for this time. It has been on a good financial basis and has been a
good investment for its owners.

DETAILS FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATES ARRANGED

The debate with Emory will be held April 17, at Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga. J. G. Patton and F.
L. Smith will uphold the affirmative of the query: “Resolved, That the British System of Government is More Democratic than
that of the United States.” L. A. Chambliss will accompany the team as alternate.

The query for the debate with Erskine has been changed from “Resolved, That the President’s Ship Purchase Bill Should Be
Passed By Congress,” to “Resolved, That the Ship Purchase Bill Introduced by Mr. Alexander in the House of Representatives, January
31, 1916, Should Be Passed By Congress.” W. D. Dickey, of Chester, S. C., and Raymond Caldwell, of Prosperity, S.
C., representing Erskine, will uphold the affirmative of the query, while W. H. Neal and J. A. Thames will fight
for the Red and Black, with R. H. Ratchford as alternate.

SOPH BANQUET IN MARCH.

The Soph Banquet has been postponed from February 21st to the middle of March, and will be held in Charlotte.
The speakers of the occasion haveNot yet been chosen.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 23, 1916.

Annual Junior Oratoricals Begin Friday
Forty-Eight Men Are to Deliver Speeches at This Time.

FRIDAY.
3:00 p.m.—Speaking.
9:30 p.m.—Speaking.

SATURDAY.
10:00 a.m.—Speaking.
2:30 p.m.—Speaking.
4:30 p.m.—Gym Team Exhibit.
8:00 p.m.—Concert.
10:00 p.m.—Receptions.

The annual Junior Oratorical Exercises will begin on Friday afternoon and continue through Saturday. The forty-eight men who are scheduled
to speak at this time have been divided into four groups. Saturday will be a holiday for the entire student
body. The program for this occasion is the usual one for these events with the exception of the Junior reception
given by the Faculty. This function will be omitted from the events this year.

Among the guests who are expected to be present are the following: Misses Mary Waller, Spartanburg, S. C.; Mary Oliver,
Kernersville, N. C.; Alice Person and Mrs. W. V. Dunlap, Charlotte, N. C.; Misses Helen Harris, Anderson, S. C.; Lyde
Von Cannon, Spencer, N. C.; Margaret Shaw, Fountain Inn, S. C.; Gretchen Moore, Tryon, N. C.; Margaret Johnson, Rueford, N.
C.; Mary Eakes and Loretta Jackson, Decatur, Ga.; Mildred Finlayson, Mary S. Alexander, Margaret Cowles and Mildred Patterson, Charlotte, N.
C.; Nell Horton, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Alice Crouch, Cartersville, Ga.; Mrs. L. W. Llewellyn; Misses Katheryn Henderson, Mary Bertha Allison,
Martha Davenport, Gloria Lamb and Josephine Whiteside, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Men Shepherd, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Elizabeth Roddey, Rock Hill, S. C.;
Aileen and Mildred Butt, of Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Magid, Richmond, Va.; Maud Vinson and Sarah Wooten, Davidson, N. C.;
Katherine McDonald, Evelyn Blake, Helen Parker and Janette Mellon, Charlotte, N. C.; Yorke Houston, Monroe, N. C.; Elizabeth Vout, Washington,
D. C.; Evelyn Than, Macon, Ga.; Anna Whitner and Elizabeth Law, Rock Hill, S. C.; Cordia Parker, Concord, N. C.;
Bessie Hood, Sumter, S. C.; Margaret Armistead, Greensboro, N. C.; Louise O'Farrell, Kings Mountain, N. C.; Mary DuPre, Spartanburg, S.
C.; Jennie Robinson, Easley, S. C.; Lil Currell, Columbia, S. C.; Mildred Hall, Greenwood, Miss.; Annette Monroe, Quincy, Fla.; Gertrude
Hood, Cuthbert, Ga.; Estelle Williamson, S. C.; Polly Prentiss, Greenville, S. C.; Miss Britton, Salisbury, N. C.; Margaret Anderson, Winston-Salem,
N. C.; Louise King, S. C.; Catherine Constable, Charlotte, N. C.; Catherine McDonald, Rockingham, N. C.; Estelle Felker and Tryphena
Kelly, Dalton, Ga.; Virgil Britt, Little Rock, S. C.; Marion Heig and Helen Slocum, Fayetteville, N. C.; Melisse Hood, Athens,
Ga.; Velois Routt, Shelbyville, Ky.; Rosalie Hill, Greenville, S. C.; Clare Henley, Greensboro, N. C.; Mary Belk, (Continued on page
4)

No. 19.

Red and Black Quint Takes Four-Day Trip
Defeated by Three College Teams — Wins Two Y. M. C. A. Games.

A. & M. GAME.
Minus the services of Eddie Childs, who was called home, the Varsity left Monday for a strenuous four-day road trip.
On Monday night they played the first game at Raleigh, losing to A. & M. by the score of 35
to 19. The game was very fast, but was marred by several fouls. The Davidson men had trouble keeping their
footing on the slippery floor, and could not get under way. A. & M. showed a complete reversal of the
form they showed against Davidson in their first encounter in Charlotte, and played a good, well-balanced game. The stars for
A. & M. were Lindsay and Temple, while Wood and Reese played the best game for Davidson. The line-up:

Davidson, Position, A. & M.
King......... Forward ........ Temple
Wood......... Forward ........ Sumner
Hengeveld.... Centre ........ Lindsay
Reese (c)..... Guard ........ Mason (c)
Younger....... Guard ........ Johnson

Substitution: Walker for Younger.
Field Goals: Lindsay 9, Temple 5, Sumner 3, Wood 4, Mason, King and Hengeveld.
Foul Goals: Reese 4, Lindsay 1.
Referee: Clay.

TRINITY GAME.
On the following night, Tuesday, the locals journeyed to Durham, and took on Trinity College, losing by the score of
38 to 22. The game was fast and well contested, and Davidson played a good, scrappy game throughout. The work
of Reese and Wood, in particular, stood out among the Davidson men. For Trinity, Captain Martin, Anderson and Ferrell were
the stars. The line-up:

Davidson, Position, Trinity.
King......... Forward ........ Ferrell
Wood......... Forward ........ Anderson
Hengeveld.... Centre ........ Bunting
Reese........ Guard ........ Lilly
Younger...... Guard ........ Martin (c)

Substitutions: Walker for Reese, Patton for Wood, Patton for Lilly.
Field Goals: Anderson 5, Ferrell 4, Martin 4, Reese 3, Wood 3, Bunting 3, Lilly and King, Hengeveld.
Foul Goals: Reese 4, Martin 4.
Referee: Holcomb.

U. OF N.C. GAME.
Mebane Long 20, Davidson 14. This tells the tale of the third game of the road trip. It was a
case of entirely too much Long all the way through, and when the smoke cleared away, Carolina was found to
have the “Long” end of the score. Personally and unassisted, Long registered 18 points, or everything but one measly goal
which he out of the kindness of his heart allowed Tennant, one of the guards, to contribute to the cause.
The game was exceedingly fast and well played, and Davidson easily outclassed the Tar Heels on floor work and passing,
but seemed unable to cage the sphere at critical moments. The Chapel Hill papers paid the locals the compliment of
saying that they played the best passing and floor game seen on the University court this season, and that bad
shooting alone marred the Davidson game. Wood and Hengeveld were the Davidson luminaries, although the entire team played a good
game, as usual. For (Continued on page 4)
