The DAVIDSONIAN, November 1, 1916

Are You PREPARED With Dress Shoes for the Fall Social Functions, With TROT-MOCS for the slush of winter? GET IN LINE Gilmer-Moore Co. JOHNSON & POTTS Agents

Rumple “24-hour delivery

WE SELL Schless Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00 Styleplus, Guaranteed Suits and Overcoats, $17.00 Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles Ralston Health and Reynolds Shoes Lion Shirts and Collars See two special men’s union suits at 98c. and $1.50

BELK-BROTHERS Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. Sayad & Douglas, Agents 7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 L. B. PATTERSON, Representative

THE FORUM

MISCONDUCT IN CHURCH.

In the recent issue of the College Magazine, under the head of “Thoughts—A Series of Chats,” the editor takes up the question of disturbance caused by the students in church. We quote from this article as follows: “This practice does not come from a lack of religious feeling, but from a lack of appreciation for form. College students are not generally irreligious; they are American. They do not stamp on the floor out of disrespect for God, but of form and ceremony.”

On this point we wish to take issue with the Magazine Editor. The principal causes, we believe, are the natural restlessness of younger people at restraint for any length of time and also the idea of compulsory attendance. These have bred an irreverence, a type of selfishness, and of cowardice, which should be considered for what they are and rooted out of their conduct. The House of God is no place for misconduct, and any acts of this sort are glaringly irreverent in spirit and in deed toward Him. They are selfish also because they rebel at restraint which robs them of a few minutes of ease, and the fact that so many other persons are being benefited by the services does not seem to occur to them. And in the third place, this conduct is cowardly because it is deliberately done in the knowledge that there is little likelihood of detection. If each of the students who are guilty of this knew that his action would become known, how many of them would persist in it, and further, how many of them would continue it or even conceive of it if their own mothers or sisters happened to be attending services with them? The students who are responsible for this show that they are carelessly indifferent to some of the most sacred things, and also that they lack a sense of the true valuation of their duties and privileges.

“ONE OF THE STUDENTS.”

HUMOR.

“Serious and conservative Davidson” was given a delightful taste of humor by Dr. Whaling in his speech last Thursday, and,having received such a good taste, are we going to begin to cultivate the art more? If it will deliver us from the monotonous and prosaic here on the campus, we need it. The man who, as occasion demands, can respond with a joke, well told, possesses an enviable accomplishment. We have at Davidson no end of “bum” jokes and “cheap” humor. To “pull” a good joke requires work, time, and thought—and, to the ordinary man, just as much of it. How many will volunteer to “liven things up” around here with some real, sure enough humor.

“God of our fathers, be with us yet, Lest we forget! Lest we forget!”

The spirit of irreverence displayed last Sunday morning in church by the few men who do not deserve the honor of being called students of Davidson College, can be interpreted only in two ways. The first cannot be but simple babyishness; it was nothing more than the disorder due to rowdyism of some few “rough-necks.” Any way, it was the act of cowards, who took refuge in the irresponsibility of the mob. Any true Southerner will show courtesy enough to a visitor or to anyone, to remain quiet, even under difficulty, no matter how “dry” or how long that person may speak. But worse than lack of courtesy is lack of reverence in the House of God. Some of Christ’s most harsh denunciations were against those men who did not revere the house of His Father.

I believe most of the students of Davidson would approve a step which placed power in the hands of the Student Council to deal justice to such reprobates.

Fall Line of Chase & Sanborn Coffee and Tea
Let Us Have Your Orders
Armour Bros. & Thompson

THEOPHILUS.

WHAT HAPPENED TWO YEARS AGO THIS WEEK
Davidson defeats Citadel in Charlotte 16-0. Student Body attends.
Asheville H. S. defeats Scrubs 13-0 in Asheville.
‘18 defeats ‘17 in class basketball 29-8. Hengeveld and Howell star.

Davidson Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

HOTEL STONEWALL
Davidson College Day. Dr. Currell, President of U. of S. C., addressed Student Body.

HOTEL BUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
Eu. Society adopts policy of Freshman Society.

HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N.C.
Woodrow Wilson accepts by letter dedication of Annual.

‘17 defeats ‘19 Basketball. Murray stars.

HOTEL MORGAN, - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

S. C. vs. D. C. football game canceled.

WHAT HAPPENED ONE YEAR AGO THIS WEEK

ATTENTION COLLEGE BOYS
We will refund all Davidson College students their railroad fare to Winston-Salem, N. C. and return who make purchases of $25.00 or more. Fare one way on $15.00.

BOYLES BROS.
One of the Largest Clothiers in the Carolinas
REIDSVILLE, N. C.
WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.