The DAVIDSONIAN, October 4, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE MONEY

THE FORUM

THE YOUNG MAN'S ENEMY

Mr. Edison says, in speaking of the degeneration produced by narcotics and cigarettes: “Unlike most narcotics, this degeneration is permanent and uncontrollable. I employ no person who smokes cigarettes.”

When I read these words of Mr. Edison, this thought came to me: What chance have we cigarette smokers at Davidson College—with our dips under our arms—of securing a position with the great inventor? Were we to apply to him for a position, a college diploma would doubtless count, but there is something else that counts more—whether or not we are a cigarette smoker.

Upon this same score Mr. Henry Ford says: “If you will study the history of almost any criminal, you will find that he is an inveterate cigarette smoker. Boys who smoke cigarettes, as a usual thing, go with other smokers to the pool rooms and the saloons. The cigarette draws them down. Hence, if we can educate them to the dangers of smoking, we shall perform a service.”

At the North Carolina Agricultural and Mechanical College anyone who is detected smoking cigarettes three times is expelled. I am not committing myself as to whether or not we should have such a law here at Davidson; but certainly we should do something. If nothing else, we could inaugurate a campaign, the purpose of which would be to educate all to the evils of the cigarette. Let's hear from others on the subject.

ReENor.

Let your next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s Charlotte, N. C. Call on our representative at Davidson and be convinced

WE SELL Schloss Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00 Suits and $17.00 Styleplus, Guaranteed Overcoats, Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles Raiston Health and Reynolds Shoes Lion Shirts and Collars See two special men’s union suits at 98c. and $1.50

BELK BROTHERS Charlotte, N. C. McClure Agent

35 Chambers Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest Quickest Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. Sayad & Douglas, Agents 7 Chambers

A NUISANCE

Mr. Editor, I wish you would write something like this in The Davidsonian next week. Before I came to Davidson I read in the catalogue about the Honor System that was in vogue here. And yet the first night after I got here I had some new springs taken off my bed, and since then I have had one electric light and three books disappear. I can’t see where this is any different from stealing. I don't want to seem Fresh, but I don’t see the Student Council is so strict on cheating as I hear they are, and yet they don’t control this cheating. It looks to me like both should come under the Honor System. If I could afford to lose lights and books, I would not mind it, but I can't.

CAESAR.

Plain writing this. There are some at Davidson, and we are glad to say that they are in a small minority, who do not seem to consider that the taking of lights from another's room or from the hallways is stealing. Let’s help the Student Council ferret out a rogue or two of this nature and we will rid ourselves of this nuisance.

Fellows-- If you are getting up a Feed-- Stop in and see S. C. Scofield Best line of Fruit, Candy, Peanuts, Etc., in town

TO THE ALUMNI

A lack of vital connection between the Alumni and the Student Body has been noticeable in years past at Davidson. We believe that the columns of The Forum supply this needed link between Alumni and Student Body. For that reason you are urged to use these columns. No matter what the nature of your communication may be, send it in, and the editors will be only too glad to print it.

The Editors.

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00

L. &. PATTERSON,

A PRESCRIPTION OFFERED.

First Student:that review." 

"I thought that I would have gotten more than that (telling his review grade to his companion)," said the first student.

Second Student: "I told you that we would have to work if we came to Davidson. I like the place very well; but this work is something else."

Such, in substance, was the conversation of two Freshmen as recently overheard by another student. Well, your case is not bad. Take a dose of hard work each day, and, that you may not lose any of its good effects, take occasionally a portion of perseverance. The writer has withstood the attacks of the faculty for three years by using a prescription similar to the one suggested. Don't become discouraged, new men, if your efforts fail to produce the result that you had expected. Your work will become easier to you as time passes and you become more accustomed to your work.

SILAS.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

South Carolina — The University opened this fall with a total enrollment of over 380 students. Several more are standing examinations, and nearly 20 of last year's students are on the border and expect to matriculate when they are released. There is a larger number of "Co-Eds" than usual this year and for the first time in the history of the college the fair sex has invaded the law school.

Winthrop Weekly News — Winthrop College is to be congratulated upon having one of the graduates of the University of Chile this year, taking post-graduate work. Every year this university sends four of its graduates to the United States, and it shows the worth of Winthrop that it was one of the four colleges selected. Winthrop has a total enrollment of 1,004 students.

N.C. A. & M. — The poultry department of the animal husbandry division offers this year a four-year course in poultry husbandry, leading to a degree. This course is the latest addition to the college curriculum, and already six Juniors have registered for this work.

North Carolina — The University Musical and Dramatic Clubs are both beginning to lay their plans for a successful season this year. The leaders in both organizations are planning trips, and state that the outlook is splendid.

Erskine College — Erskine College had a successful opening and the students are jubilant over the fact that practically all of last year’s Varsity eleven are back.

The Guilfordian — Guilford College is appealing to all students and Alumni to co-operate in having the Y. M. C. A. building renovated. Those in charge of the campaign for raising the necessary funds are confident that they will succeed.

Trinity — Mr. Charles L. Van Noppen, of Greensboro, has presented to the Trinity College Library a steel engraving of William Sidney Porter (O. Henry). This portrait will serve as the frontispiece of volume nine of the Biographical History of North Carolinians, of which Mr. Van Noppen is publisher.

HAND BOOKS HERE SOON.

The proof for the Y. M. C. A. Hand Book was received, corrected and returned to the publishers by the editor-in-chief, L. A. Chambliss, during the early part of the week. The material in the Hand Book this year is essentially the same as it was last year. It is expected to be on the Hill by the early part of next week.

See Our New Line of Cluett-Peabody Shirts
$1.00 $1.25 $1.50
Make Our Store Headquarters
Armour Bros. & Thompson

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN — Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
New Line of Haberdashery and Shoes
We appreciate your trade