4 The DAVIDSONIAN, March 22, 1916

ARTICLES WORTH READING.

Do you know what you want to read when you pick up the magazines in the reading room? The Davidsonian
has undertaken to publish a short list of worth-while articles which come out in the current magazines. The first list
appeared in last week's issue, under the heading “Articles Worth Reading in Current Magazines,” and other lists will appear from
time to time. This has been undertaken with the idea of providing a kind of directory to help students to
find the things that are interesting and really worth the time it takes to read them. It is not a
complete directory of all that is good in the magazines, but it is made up with care, and an attempt
is made to include in it not only articles on economic, social and political questions, etc., but some of the
best stories and poems. It is hoped that this list will prove useful; and if it directs you to a
good article or saves you time in finding the thing you want to read, its purpose will not have failed.

In Everybody's: “Have We the Price of Admission?” by L. D. Frolick.
In The Century: “The Japanese Menace,” by Thomas F. Millard; “My Father and I” (verse), by Badger Clark.
In Scribner's: “The Bird Refugees of Louisiana,” by T. Roosevelt.
In Harper’s: “A Yankee in Switzerland,” by A. B. Paine; “More Than Raiment” (a story), by Margaret Cameron and Jessie
L. Rector; “Top o’ Smoky,” by Henry Seidel Canby.
In Atlantic Monthly: “Our Drifting Civilization,” by L. P. Jacobs; “The Syrian Christ,” by Abraham Mitrie Rihbany.
In The World’s Work: “New York, The Stupendous,” by James Middleton.
In The Unpopular Review: “Your Blood and Mine.”
In South Atlantic Quarterly: “Letters of a Virginia Cadet at West Point, 1859-1861” (letters of) Major Thomas Rowland, C. S.
A.

THE SELECTION OF JUNIOR AND SENIOR ORATORS

The present method of selecting the Junior and Senior competitors for the medals in the oratorical contests is of rather
recent origin. During the early days of the college, the literary societies voted on these men and the “reps” were
given according to the vote. After a number of years, it was thought to be a more satisfactory plan to
leave the selection to a committee of the faculty. The question was raised in February, 1890, and discussed in the
societies for some time. Quite a number of called meetings were held for the purpose of discussing it. On April
4, 1890, it was moved and passed by the Eumenean Society that this be done. The Philanthropic Society had already
passed a similar resolution during February of the same year.

SPRING DEBATES.

The annual Junior-Senior Debate will be held April 30. The query is: “Resolved, That an amendment should be made to
the Federal Constitution forbidding the sale of intoxicating liquors in the United States.” The Fresh-Soph Debate is scheduled for May
1. The query for this debate is: “Resolved, That within the next four years the United States should grant the
Philippines their independence.”

The Civic League has been promised a visit in the near future from the station grounds expert of the Southern
Railway to make suggestions for improvements here. The League has also assumed payment of the rent for the unsightly billboard
near the station and it will soon be removed.

(Continued from page 1)

Receipts from this would amount to $100,000,000 a year if it were worked to its utmost. Dr. Thornton’s closing words
were: “God has sent it to us, and we have done it, not for glory, not for pride, but for
Him and our fellow-men.”

BASEBALL SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

better control, and seems to be overcoming his tendency to wildness, which was his chief fault. It is probable that
Coach Fetzer will let these hurlers alternate in the first few games, until they become accustomed to the grinding of
the full nine innings.and use two or three men a game. Oak Ridge follows Catawba to Sprunt Field, on March
30. They have already set themselves a record, in defeating Carolina in the first game, and Davidson will have to
reserve some mighty good pitching for this game, so it is likely that some of the younger pitchers will work
in the Catawba game.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

A Word—The exchange list of The Davidsonian has more than doubled since the first of the year. Forty college papers,
including all of the leading papers of the South and a few representative publications from other parts of the United
States, and two religious weeklies, “The Christian Observer” and “Onward,” now come to its desk regularly.

* * *

To Play Mercer—Wake Forest’s Thanksgiving game next fall will be played in Greensboro, with Mercer University, of Macon, Ga.

* * *

From Agnes Scott—A new paper on our exchange list is “The Agonistic,” of Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga. The first
issue of this paper appeared immediately after Christmas, and the first to come to our desk, the issue of March
17, is an excellent and well-edited paper. The Davidsonian bespeaks great success for “The Agonistic.”

* * *

A Long Debating Trip—The Varsity debating team of Columbia University, New York, will make an 8,000-mile trans-continental trip, debating while
away four Western colleges, one of which is the Law School of Southern California, of Los Angeles, Cal. Governor Hiram
Johnson, of California, will preside at this debate.

* * *

Shakespeare Celebrations—The famous Coburn players will present three of Shakespeare's plays or parts thereof at Trinity about the first of
May. Most of the academic colleges and universities of the United States will present Shakespearian plays this spring. A query:
“Will Davidson fall behind in the procession?”

* * *

Washington and Lee—Hon. Newton D. Baker, the newly appointed Secretary of War, was graduated from the Law School of Washington
and Lee University in 1894.

* * *

The University of Florida—The following article is clipped from The Florida Alligator: “T. C. Nixon, a graduate of Davidson College,
N. C., and who is a very popular principal of the High School at Bristol (Fla.) is now taking special
work in the Teacher’s College.”

On Saturday night there will be given in Shearer Hall a moving picture show under the auspices of the Civic
League. The pictures will start at 7:00 p.m.

TORRENCE & HELPER
Fountain Pens
Make our Store Your “Meeting Place”

Cotton Drug Co.
Your prescriptions are compounded with the best

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED
We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars and Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty
We appreciate your patronage

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc.
Special attention given to “Feeds”
Your trade is appreciated

A. L. ELLIOTT

EAT AT HOTEL
STONEWALL HOTEL
HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
WRIGHT'S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N. C.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

The Flyless Restaurant
Also Auto Service
SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.

BASEBALL SHOES
To play well you must be well shod.
“CLUB SPECIAL” SPRINTING No. 08, the pair $5.00
Long time favorites on all ball fields.
Catalogue mailed on request.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA.

Stationery
The COMMISSARY

Give your Shoe Repair Work
To JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

(DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more

Headquarters For Davidson Men
