MR. HILL’S LIFE AN INTERESTING ONE

As Mr. John Hill is well known to every student at Davidson, it will, no doubt, be interesting to know something of his past life. Mr. Hill was born January 31, 1846, in Awre, near Newnham, England, the third son of James and Miriam Hill. His father died when John was but two years old, leaving his wife three sons and two daughters. John started work when he could only keep the cows from eating the corn. At ten years of age, he assisted in driving a team of four oxen. He next tended sheep and then worked as an apprentice on a dairy farm at ten dollars per year and board.

In his boyhood days, he delighted in watching the boats on the river (which was two miles wide at his home), hoping some day to discover the path of the setting sun. The opportunity soon came and he embarked on a river-trader. This soon became tame for John and he shipped on a pilot boat which plied up and down the Bristol channel. Its crew comprised the pilot, his son, and John. Having learned the rocks and shoals along the channel, it was very pleasing to John, as a boy of fifteen, to play the role of captain, mate, and crew; which often was the case when the captain, moved by “spirits,” and his son would seek repose on their bunks, and leave John in charge of the tiller, often against a heavy wind.

As John grew older and more experienced, he became dissatisfied with the monotony of the duties of the pilot boat. He, therefore, shipped as cabin boy on a German bark-rigged ship sailing from Cardiff, England, to Alicante, on the Mediterranean coast of Spain. On account of the low character of one of the officers, he left this ship one night and boarded a ship leaving port in the early morning. They were pursued and the ship searched, but he was not found, for he had been stowed away in the hold among the timbers and freight.

On entering the Bay of Biscay, a tremendous gale struck the ship. Soon the ship began to leak and by midnight the sails and mast had been swept away. As the crew was occupied with the pumps, John was put to the wheel. Being so small, he had to stand on blocks to reach it. In the morning, their condition being hopeless, they raised the distress signal. One ship passed them unnoticed. About noon they were taken on board a Scotch bark. The bark continued its course toward South Africa and landed the rescued on the Madeira Islands. There they were well treated by the English consul. Two weeks later, they sailed on the Royal mail steamer, which landed them at Liverpool. There he secured a place as “boy before the mast” on an American ship, the “Jabez Snow.” They sailed with a shipload of coal for Valparaiso, South America. All went well until they were in sight of South America. Just off the mouth of the Amazon, the Confederate gunboat “Alabama” bore down upon them, took them prisoners, and burned their ship. While on the “Alabama,” he witnessed a fight between the “Alabama” and a Northern gunboat off the West Indies, in which the “Alabama” was victor.

(To be continued)

A VOTE OF THANKS.

The Davidsonian staff and management...

The DAVIDSONIAN, September 27, 1916

OLD DAVIDSON MEN ASSIST COACH FETZER

Last week several former Davidson football stars assisted Coach Fetzer in putting the squad through a series of scrimmages and practice...in charging and tackling. These included Dr. N. B. Edgerton, of Columbia; R. B. Peters, of Ebenezer, Tenn., a former Davidson center; “Pete” Crayton, of Charlotte, a one-time stellar end; “Bob” Denny, and Everett Booe, for several seasons one of the most brilliant end punters Davidson has known. These men rendered valuable assistance, as Coach Fetzer’s hands are unusually full this year, with such a large number out for the team, and no regular assistant.

WILSON-BICKETT CLUB MAY BE FORMED HERE

The following article from the “Charlotte Observer” of September 24th will no doubt be of interest here:

Wake Forest, Sept. 23—The organization of a Wilson-Bickett Democratic Club is to be perfected at Wake Forest College in the near future. This movement is in line with similar clubs that are planned to be formed at A. & M., University of North Carolina, Trinity, and Davidson. Arrangements are now being made to have Hon. T. W. Bickett and other alumni of the different institutions speak before the several clubs. The tentative schedule of addresses is as follows: Wake Forest, October 11th; A. & M., October 12th; University of North Carolina, October 13th; Trinity, October 14th; Davidson, October 16th.

STUDENT COUNCIL DEFINES CERTAIN OFFENSES

The following definitions have been definitely decided upon by the Student Council:

Hazing: Any action on the part of an upper-classman towards a Freshman which shall annoy, maltreat, or injure the latter, such as dumping, throwing water or snowballs, rough housing a Freshman’s room, forcing him to do anything against his will, paddling, etc., shall be considered hazing by the Student Council and dealt with as such.

Provoking Hazing: Provoking hazing is any willful act by any Freshman towards any upper-classman contrary to the existing traditions for the conduct of the Freshmen on the campus, such as jibing, making slighting, objectionable remarks, treating with undue disrespect upper-classmen, giving class yells, making class numerals conspicuous, etc.

GYM CLASSES BEGIN

The Freshman physical examinations have not been held as yet and will not until a college physician is secured, which may not be until Dr. McConnell returns from the border. In the meanwhile, gymnasium classes have begun, with P. B. Price as director. Below is given the schedule of classes:

Class A—Tuesday, 5:30; Wednesday, 5:30; Thursday, 4:45.
Class B—Tuesday, 4:45; Thursday, 5:30; Friday, 5:30.

A wide circle of acquaintances and friends will learn with sorrow of the death of John Scofield, eldest son of S. C. Scofield, of this place, which occurred suddenly September 17th at his home. He was about 46 years of age. Mr. Scofield had been in poor health for some time, though after a period of rest he had been at work ever since October of last year, being connected with the Western Union Telegraph Company.

We cater to United Motor Lines
L. O. Patterson, College Representative

PRESCRIPTIONS AND PURE DRUGS
We appreciate your patronage
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Boost the ATHLETIC Association
By Purchasing Your Athletic Goods and College Pennants
At THE COMMISSARY
Best Line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

Boys! Come to Our Fountain For Your Drinks
Tobacco
Cigars
Cigarettes
And Everything in DRUGS and STATIONERY
Jetton Drug Co.

Regular Lin Hotel
Central Charlotte and Statesville
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special trips for students
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN
Frank F. Morton, Manager