The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Citadel and Davidson Battle to a Tie Score
Visitors’ Forward Passes, Black’s Run the Features.

Before one of the largest crowds seen here in recent years, Davidson and the Citadel played a 7 to 7
tie Saturday in the only contest to be staged on the local field this season. The game, from a spectator's
standpoint, was replete with thrills, the open form of play being used to a large extent throughout the game. The
Red and Black team forged ahead in the second quarter by nature of “Jack” Black’s 86-yard run for a touchdown,
and it seemed that this was to be the only score of the game, as the ball see-sawed up and
down the field, Davidson gaining at straight football and Citadel offsetting these gains by successful forward passes. But the Citadel
team, having staked their all on an aerial game, were enabled to score a touchdown in the last few minutes
of play on one of their many long and perfectly completed forward passes.

The Davidson offense did not show the powerful drive that had characterized their play in previous contests, but even at
that, they easily excelled the South Carolinians at straight football. In the open form of play, however, Citadel had decidedly
the better of the argument, their complex and variegated system of forward passes being too much for the Red and
Black team to cope with.

The individual and particular feature of the game was Black's 86-yard run for a touchdown. It came in the second
quarter. With the ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line, “Jack,” aided by good interference, carried the ball around right end. Giving
a wonderful exhibition of sidestepping, he passed one white line after another, until he had outdistanced his many pursuers and
fallen across the goal line. It was a play that will long be remembered in Davidson's athletic history.

Captain Weeks was largely responsible for the successful offensive work of the Citadel team. His field generalship was superb and
his forward passes almost invariably were accurate and well placed. Switzer, the big fullback, was the only gaining member at
straight football, and he charged hard and low. The work of Crouch and Teter at ends approached the sensational, these
men handling forward passes with almost uncanny accuracy. “Billy” Sayad's playing for Davidson was the feature of the day’s line
work.

GAME IN DETAIL

FIRST QUARTER

Captain Weeks won toss and elected to receive. Davidson defending north goal. Grey kicked off over goal line. Citadel's ball
20-yard line. Thomson loses 2. D.C. offside, penalized 5 yards. Three line bucks fail. Citadel penalized 15 yards for holding.
Weeks kicked 50 yards to Keesler, who fumbled, Black recovering. Black made 2. “Steve” Walker netted 13 yards on end
run. Successful line bucks by Burns, C. Walker and Black made another first down. End runs by Keesler, Black and
Walker failed to make distance. Mar-

(Continued on page 6)

News and Happenings Of the Week in Town

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 25, 1916.

New Gymnasium Plans to be Perfected Soon, No. 7

Scrubs Are Victorious Over Carolina Fresh

Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Dr. Martin attended a meeting last week of the Executive Committee of the Layman’s Missionary Movement, at Nashville, Tenn. Drs.
Martin, Lingle and Richards are attending a meeting of the North Carolina Synod at Salisbury this week.

Mrs. Fulton has returned after spending the summer at Danville, Ky. Misses Isabel Fithian and Ruth Crowell spent the week-end
with Miss Eloise Martin. Among the visitors on the Hill for the game Saturday were Captain F. Blythe, a loyal
alumnus of Davidson, of Greenwood, S. C., and Mr. S. H. Wylie, American Consul at Asuncion, Paraguay.

William Martin, Jr., has been operated on for appendicitis and is in the hospital in Charlotte.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle is to give an address this afternoon before the Women's Club of Winston-Salem, on South American
affairs. Tomorrow she is to address a district meeting of the clubs at Winston-Salem, on Friday a district meeting of
clubs at Lexington, and on Saturday again speaks on South American affairs before the Lexington club.

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Grey entertained last Saturday evening in honor of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Currie, of
Raeford, N. C., and Rev. and Mrs. Thos. Currie, of Columbus, Ga., who are visiting their mother, Mrs. J. L.
Currie.

Miss Linton, of Athens, Ga., is doing some research work in the Library.

Winston-Salem, N. C., October 19, 1916.

Editor The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

We notice in your issue of recent date that the Commissary has offered a prize for the best Davidson song
composed by November 1st. This is a mighty good movement, for Davidson has long been in need of some good
“original” songs. We also think that Davidson is in need of one first-class college yell, something similar to the Princeton
“Locomotive” or the “Wah-Hoo-Wah” of Virginia. But it should be original, and worthy of the name that it bears. So
we offer one (1) ten-pound box of our Red Eye Tobacco to the student or alumnus that composes the best
original Davidson yell, the Blue Pencil Club to be the judges. The contest to close December 1st.

Yours very truly,

Taylor Brothers.He # He H BE HS &# ee & & § Fe Hoe BT-b * * With Pool Later.
The plans for the new $25,000 Gymnasium have not been definitely decided upon. On account of the increased cost of
building material, it will be impossible to build a Gymnasium as large as was first planned and include the swimming
pool at the present time. Dr. Martin asked the Student Body for an expression of opinion as to what would
be best: a large Gymnasium now and a swimming pool later on, or a smaller Gymnasium with a swimming pool.
The vote showed that the student body favors a large Gymnasium. Dr. Martin has not definitely decided on the plans
that he will submit to the executive committee of the college, but in general, the plan of the building will
probably be as follows: A building 90 by 75 feet. On the first floor, the gymnasium proper will be 60
by 90 feet. There will be a smaller gymnasium, 26 by 31, for boxing, wrestling, etc. On this floor will
be an office for the physical instructor and an examining room. On the floor above will be a bedroom for
the physical director, and a large classroom for use by the athletic classes and as a club room for the
wearers of the D. On three sides of the building will be a gallery for the accommodation of visitors. The
plans for the basement are not very settled. It will probably contain about 300 lockers, a shower room, a room
for the use of the home team, and one for the visiting team. A building committee will be appointed the
31st of October. These plans will be perfected then, and work will begin a few weeks afterward.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY CELEBRATED TOMORROW

Tomorrow, October 26th, has been set aside this year for the annual celebration of Davidson College Day. The principal feature
of the day will be an address by Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Columbia, S. C., who is a very attractive
and interesting speaker. Dr. Whaling was a member of the class of 1877 and was a classmate of President Woodrow
Wilson. He is now the president of Columbia Theological Seminary. Another feature of the day will be the singing of
college songs by the Student Body, and the men are asked to bring their handbooks to the meeting. The exercises
will begin at 11:30, classes for the day being suspended at 11 o'clock. There will be no chapel before breakfast.

Chief of Police Johnston has determined to see that the law regulating the speed limit of automobiles through Davidson is
enforced. A few Sundays ago, he took the numbers of about forty cars that were exceeding the speed limit, five
of which were Davidson cars. The citizens of Davidson stand behind Mr. Johnston in his efforts, and it is hoped
that the nuisance will soon be abated.

Hill in Close Game

Davidson's second string aggregation met the University of North Carolina Freshmen in a hard-fought battle last Saturday. It was a
fight from beginning to end. In the first quarter, Davidson was hard-pressed by the heavy linemen of the Freshmen. Davidson,
however, tightened, and during the rest of the game, outplayed their heavier opponents. The game in detail was as follows:

Carolina kicked off 60 yards and continued to push the Davidson boys back to their 3-yard line, and were then
penalized 5 yards for holding. After exchanging punts, Blount, of the Freshmen, kicked a field goal. Freshmen kicked to Davidson,
and G. Robson returned 30 yards, and by bucks, Davidson carried the ball to Carolina's 48-yard line, when the first
quarter ended with Carolina 3 and Davidson 0.

The second quarter started off by Singleton gaining 25 yards. Carolina intercepted a forward pass. McAlister made a 30-yard run,
then Singleton gained 15 yards. Singleton ran over guard for a touchdown. Failed to kick goal. Davidson, 6; Carolina, 3.
Carolina kicked off and Patterson returned 25 yards. “Pat” Robson gained 10 yards around end. The first half ended with
Davidson in possession of the ball on the 50-yard line.

Davidson kicked off to Carolina 30 yards. Carolina punted, recovered fumble, and advanced to Davidson’s 10-yard line. The Tar Heels
were pushed back and an attempt at a field goal was blocked by McMaster. After a few attempts on the
part of the Freshmen to break through, the ball went over. In an attempt to punt, Carolina scored a safety.
Davidson, 6; Freshmen, 5. Singleton gained 35 yards around end.

The fourth quarter begins with Davidson ball on Carolina's 35-yard line. McAlister gained 8 yards around end and Robson slips
through line for 20 yards. The ball goes over to Carolina on their 15-yard line and there was a hard
fight on both sides to the end of the game. During the last thirty seconds of the game, three of
Carolina’s forward passes were intercepted. The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. FRESHMEN.
Monroe .......... left end .......... Fisher
G. Robson ....... left tackle ....... Conrad
Morton .......... left guard ........ Pritchard
Long ............ center ............ Blount (C)
Fraser .......... right guard ....... Gant
McMaster ........ right tackle ...... Robbins
McKinnon ........ right end ......... Daniels
C. Robson (C) ... quarter .......... Lewis
Patterson ....... left-half ......... Arty
Singleton ....... fullback .......... Spaugh
McAlister ....... right-half ........ Bristol
