High Grade Shoes & Socks
Gilmer-Moore Co. of Charlotte
Samples at 2 Rumple
JOHNSON & POTTS
See us for TROT-MOCS
“2-hour delivery”

WE SELL
Schloss Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00
Styleplus, Guaranteed Suits and Overcoats, $17.00
Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles
Ralston Health and Reynolds Shoes
Lion Shirts and Collars
See two special men’s union suits at 98c. and $1.50

BELK BROTHERS
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Quickest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly.
We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
Sayad & Douglas, Agents

Fellows--
If you are getting up a Feed--
Stop in and see S. C. Scofield
Best line of Fruit, Candy, Peanuts, Etc., in town

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00

L. B. PATTERSON

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 18, 1916

News and Happenings Of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Miss Anna Louise Wills, the attractive guest for the past week of Mrs. Whitaker, left Thursday for her home.

Miss Nelle Gudger, of Oak Grove, N. C., spent the week-end with the Misses Shelton.

Misses Catherine and Winnifred Potts, students at Queens College, spent the week-end with home folks.

About nine of the young ladies of Davidson, and their guests, Miss Wills and Miss Gudger, and about as many
college boys, had a very enjoyable “hike” to the “Gullies” Saturday afternoon. All returned to the home of the Misses
Shelton, where they enjoyed themselves at supper.

Miss Louise Manning, teacher of History and English in the Statesville Female College, spent Sunday of last week with her
mother, returning on Monday.

R. D. Alexander, ex-'19, now at King’s Business College, Charlotte, spent the week-end with relatives.

Miss Gordon Baskerville spent Sunday with her sister, Mrs. Robson.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY ON OCTOBER 26TH

As is customary in nearly all colleges, one day in each collegiate year is reserved for the observance of the
Founder's Day, or the College Day, as it is called at Davidson. At this time a prominent alumnus usually makes
an address. Such men as Dr. Henry Shepherd, of Baltimore; ex-Governor Glenn, of North Carolina, Dr. Currell, President of the
University of South Carolina, have been speakers here in the past. Thursday week, October 26, has been set aside this
year for the annual celebration of Davidson College Day, Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Columbia, S. C., having been secured as
the speaker. While no definite plans have been announced by the Faculty, it is supposed that the exercises will be
carried on as in the past, that is, the early chapel period will be postponed until 11 a.m. The exercises
will begin at this hour, classes being suspended for the rest of the morning.

GOLF NEWS.

The golf course is occupied almost every afternoon that the weather allows. Several new men have joined the club, and
many enthusiasts of last year are to be seen on the links. Among the old men playing this year are:
Hall, Kornegay, Chambliss, Nisbet, Roddey, Henderson, and Howard. Dr. Arbuckle and Professors Wood and Currie are also playing. The course
is rather rough now owing to the grass, but it will soon be put in good shape. The club is
very anxious to add new men to its roll. A larger enrollment would enable the club to improve the course.

All who have any old clothes are requested to send them to Mrs. Paisley or to Mrs. W. R. Grey
to be forwarded to Mrs. Sloop’s Mountain School. Contributions sent in will be much appreciated as they are a great
aid to Mrs. Sloop in her work.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

College Topics—The Topics is advocating the worthand advisability of playing tennis on Sunday afternoon at the University of Virginia. The
editor believes that “such Sunday observance more nearly approaches the religion of the Great Teacher than the puritanical, over-pious observance
of those who favor blue laws.”

* * *

The Reveille—The Co-Eds at the Louisiana State University are acting as ushers in the Columbia Theater of Baton Rouge, La.
They are receiving the salaries of regular ushers and will turn this compensation over to the Alumnae Loan Fund, which
is being used to assist girls who otherwise would be unable to attend L.S.U.

* * *

The Tar-heel—A Freshman Debating Club has been organized at the University of North Carolina. The purpose of the club is
to afford an outlet to the interest in debating which the men have acquired in their High School work, and
it is not intended to enter competition with the two Literary Societies.

* * *

Full Line of Chase & Sanborn Coffee & Tea
Let us have your orders
Armour Bros. Thompson

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N.C.

The Old Gold and Black—In the oratorical contest of the Interstate Intercollegiate Prohibition Association, held recently in the auditorium of
Converse College, the representative of Kentucky won first place, and Virginia's representative came second. A student of Wofford College represented
the State of South Carolina.

* * *

The Red and Black—In a "get-together" meeting of the Freshman class at the University of Georgia, the men of 1920
decided to continue the practice of wearing the red caps with the black F. They were told that it not
only promoted class spirit, but also college spirit, and far from being a disgrace to wear their caps, in reality
it was an honor and distinction.

The Crimson-White—A Reserve Officers’ Training Corps is to be organized at the University of Alabama, and an officer of the
regular army has arrived to take charge of it. “After a lapse of more than a dozen years, military training
is to be restored at the University—this time optionally.”

Winthrop Weekly News—The students of Winthrop College are supporting a new Foreign Y.W.C.A. Secretary. This lady sailed for Japan this
summer and now is hard at work learning the language.

SEVERAL DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND CONVENTION

The annual convention of the Christian Endeavor Union of the Northwestern District of North Carolina was held in Winston-Salem last
Saturday and Sunday. There were several in attendance upon the sessions from Davidson, including Dr. Arbuckle, J.F. Fowle, H.S. Lott,
R.D. Cranford, B.I. Shields, W.T. Maddrey, J.W. Clark, J.P. Taylor, and C.H. Long. Dr. Arbuckle and Maddrey were on the
program for addresses, both of which were interesting and well received. A quartet, composed of Fowle, Lott, Cranford, and Shields,
furnished special music during the convention, which was greatly enjoyed by all the delegates. Mr. Karl Lehmann, who spoke here
recently, was the leading spirit of the convention with his enthusiasm, and pronounced the gathering the best district convention yet
held. Dr. D. Clay Lilly, of Winston, and Mr. George Mitchell, of Wilmington, State President of Christian Endeavor, also made
addresses. The convention next year will be held in Mount Airy.

HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
J.P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts

27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M.H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
New Line of Haberdashery and Shoes
We appreciate your trade
