The DAVIDSONIAN, October 4, 1916

Literary Societies

For the ready reference of Davidsonian readers, below is given a complete schedule of all important college football games to
be played by Southern elevens on the following two Saturdays, October 7th and 14th:

SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, October 7th: “Resolved, That the United States has the right to intervene between Japan and China.” Owing
to the fact that most of the students are going to Charlotte Saturday for the A. & M. game, there
will be no meeting of the literary societies on Saturday night. However, this query will be used in Eumenean Freshmen
society Monday night, October 9th, and the class for that night is as follows: Affirmative, Smith. Negative, Sullivan, Burgess; Declamations:
Byrd, Craig, Grey, Harold.

DECLAMATIONS AND ORATIONS, OCT. 9

Eumenean — Declamations: Flynn, Burns, Carwyle. Orations: Hamilton, Hudson, J. R. Woods. Philanthropic — Orations: J. Clark, R. P. Richardson,
D. I. McKeithen, W. H. Neal, and R. H. Ratchford. Declamations: Dunlap, Kornepay, Boney, Spence, J. W. McAllister, and Alexander.

WEEKLY MEETINGS

Owing to the services by Mr. Hounshel Saturday night, there was no meeting of the literary societies. However, both societies
met Monday for their regular exercises. In the Philanthropic Society, S. M. Davis spoke on “The Cultivation of the Strawberry,”
and J. L. Fowle gave an oration on “The Negro Problem.” O. C. Williamson made a political speech entitled “The
Choice of the People,” showing that Wilson was the logical and best choice of the people for President in the
coming election. R. H. Stone gave a history of the college paper, The Davidsonian, and explained its features. Several declamations
were given by Sophomores and Freshmen, including M. A. Siske, whose subject was “A Night of Terror;” J. T. Kerr,
“The Village Blacksmith;” L. G. Calhoun, “The Last Charge of Ney;” D. W. Dawkins, a speech by William H. Harrison.

In the Eumenean Society, C. R. Jenkins gave an interesting discussion of the diplomatic relations of the United States during
the last quarter of a century. F. M. Mitchell advocated the regulation by zones of the construction of buildings in
cities. J. R. Morton spoke on “The Results of the Present War on Trade Relations With South America.” W. G.
Humphrey explained the situation in national politics as indicated by the Maine election.

DR. ARBUCKLE SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. MEETING

The meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on last Thursday night was preparatory to the campaign meetings which began
on Friday. Dr. Arbuckle gave a splendid address on the subject of “Friendship.” He showed what a beautiful and sacred
relation exists between true friends, and because of the influence which friend exerts on friend he urged each student to
be very careful and thoughtful of the selection of his friends for his college course. The friendships which are formed
in college usually last through life, and may be a great happiness and help or a cause of much sorrow.
The friendship of that Greatest of all Friends was then considered and the students urged to select Him as their
first and closest Friend.

OCTOBER 7TH

North Carolina vs. Princeton, Princeton.
Virginia vs. Yale, at New Haven.
Washington & Lee vs. Army, at West Point.
Georgia vs. Clemson, at Anderson.
Sewanee vs. Southwestern Presbyterian University, at Sewanee.
Vanderbilt vs. Transylvania, at Nashville.
Alabama vs. Southern, at Tuscaloosa.
Auburn vs. Howard, at Birmingham.
North Carolina Agricultural and Mechanical College vs. Davidson, at Charlotte.
South Carolina vs. Newberry, at Columbia.
Georgetown vs. Navy, at Annapolis.
Georgia Tech. vs. Cumberland, Atlanta.
Chattanooga vs. Carson-Newman, at Chattanooga.
L. S. U. vs. Jefferson, at Baton Rouge.
V. M. I. vs. William and Mary, Lexington.
V. P. I. vs. Hampden-Sidney, Blacksburg.
Wake Forest vs. Guilford, Wake Forest.
Texas vs. Rice, at Austin.
Tennessee vs. Maryville, Knoxville.
Mississippi vs. Jonesboro, Oxford, Miss.
Catholic University vs. Richmond, Washington.
Austin vs. Texas Christian, Fort Worth.

OCTOBER 14TH

North Carolina vs. Harvard, at Cambridge.
Georgia Tech. vs. Davidson, Atlanta.
Georgia vs. Florida, Athens.
Vanderbilt vs. Kentucky State, Lexington, Ky.
Clemson vs. Tennessee, Clemson.and Lee vs. Rutgers, New Brunswick, N.J. L.S.U. vs. Texas Agricultural and Mechanical, Galveston. V.P.I. vs. West
Virginia, Charlestown, W.Va. Sewanee vs. Cumberland, at Sewanee. Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical vs. Chattanooga, at Chattanooga. Auburn vs. Mercer, at
Auburn. South Carolina vs. Wofford, Columbia. Texas vs. Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical, at San Antonio. Citadel vs. South Carolina. Alabama
vs. Mississippi College, Tuscaloosa, Ala. Howard vs. Southern, Birmingham. V.M.I. vs. Gallaudet, Lexington. Mississippi vs. Hendrix, Oxford. Virginia vs. Richmond,
Charlottesville. Tulane vs. Spring Hill, New Orleans. Catholic University vs. Randolph-Macon, Washington.

STEELE CREEK CLUB.
The students from Steele Creek church had a meeting Saturday night, September 30th, and organized a Steele Creek Club. The
club has nine members and is represented in three of the classes. The object of the club is to promote
greater fellowship among its members and to advance the interests of the college, especially in its home community. The following
officers were elected: O.C. Williamson, President; R.W. Robinson, Vice-President; W.C. Neel, Secretary and Treasurer.

It is with pleasure that Davidson welcomes Dr. Lilly’s two sons, Henry and Edward, former students of Vanderbilt, and who
come here as a result of this change made by their father. Dr. D. Clay Lilly, formerly of Nashville, Tenn.,
has accepted the call to the pastorate recently vacated by Dr. Neal S. Anderson, at Winston-Salem. Dr. Anderson has accepted
the presidency of Austin Theological Seminary, Austin, Tex. While the people of Winston-Salem will miss Dr. Anderson, they are fortunate
in securing the services of Dr. Lilly, who for some time has been prominently connected with Student Volunteer work in
colleges.

—Established 1842—
Chas. M. Stieff
219 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

TYPEWRITING
Let me fix that Senior Speech up in neat style. Present your English papers in an attractive way. Special rates
for regular work.
W. L. DOUGLAS
Name Address Quality & Service
See me No. 7 Chambers

DO YOU EVER STOP TO READ FELLOWS ADS IN THIS PAPER? They make the paper possible and in turn should
receive your careful attention.

ON READING BOOKS.
Read the preface first. It was probably written last, but the author put it at the beginning because he wanted
to say something particular to you before you entered the book. Go in through the front door. Read plenty of
books about people and things, but not too many books about books. Literature is not to be taken in emulsion.
The only way to know a great author is to read his works for yourself. That will give you knowledge
at first hand. Read one book at a time, but never one book alone. Well-born books always have relatives. Follow
them up. Learn something about the family if you want to understand the individual. If you have been reading “Idylls
of the King” go back to Sir Thomas Malory; if you have been keeping company with Stevenson, travel for a
while with Scott, Dumas, and Defoe. Read the old books—those that have stood the test of time. Read them slowly,
carefully, thoroughly. They will help you discriminate among the new ones. Read no book with which the author has not
taken pains enough to write it in a clean, sound, lucid style. Life is short. If he thought so little
of his work that he left it in the rough, it is not likely to be worth your pains in
reading it. Read over again the ten best books that you have already read. The result of this experiment will
test your taste, measure your advance, and fit you for progress in the art of reading.
—Henry Van Dyke.

NOW FOR FOOTBALL
Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. 5-5? This is the one used in every big college game
because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint. Our football line is complete in everything needed for the
player. Write for Catalogue.
A.G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with cashier of Bank
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
The Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

The Washington “Evening Star” has taken the place of the Washington “Post” in the reading room.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION
