6 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 18, 1916

RED AND BLACK DEFEATED
(Continued from page 1)

most impregnable, while Senter played a great defensive end. The Atlanta press is unanimous in their praise of the Davidson
team’s cleanness, gameness, and ability, and also in their praise for Coach “Bill” Fetzer’s work in molding such a team.

THE GAME IN DETAIL

Captain White won the toss and elected to kick. Grey kicked 50 yards to Spence, who returned 10. Tech’s ball.
Johnson made one yard and Strupper lost two on the next play. Strupper punted 50 yards to Keesler, who fumbled,
and Senter recovered for Tech. Senter and Strupper netted five on two right-side plays. These two repeated with two line
bucks for a total of four yards. Forward pass fails. Failing to gain, Spence tries a drop kick from the
15-yard line, but fails. D. C.’s ball on their 20-yard line. Grey punted 55 yards to Strupper, who returned five.
Tech’s ball on their 40-yard line. Morrison and Strupper made it first down on three line bucks. Johnson and Morrison
made another first down through left tackle. Johnson failed to gain. Morrison fumbled behind the line and Davidson recovered. Davidson's
ball on the 33-yard line. Burns failed to gain. Grey punted 50 yards, Strupper returning 10. Tech's ball on their
40-yard line. Spence hit left tackle for four yards. Strupper added four more on an end run. Forward pass failed.
Strupper punted over the goal line. D. C.’s ball on their 20-yard line. Grey kicked 45 yards to Strupper, who
returned 10. Tech’s ball. Spence fumbled and Davidson recovered. D. C.'s ball on their 30-yard line. Black gained two on
a tackle play. Burns went over right tackle for seven yards. Keesler raced around left end for 35 yards. Tech
penalized half distance to goal for slugging. Black gained one yard. Quarter ended.

SECOND QUARTER

Keesler carries the ball over, but Davidson is penalized. C. Walker offside. Forward pass intercepted by Spence, who returned 15
yards. Tech’s ball. Strupper, Spence, Senter, and Morrison carry the ball on line bucks to D. C.’s 45-yard line, where
Morrison attempted a forward pass, which was intercepted by Bob Walker. Grey punted 45 yards, out of bounds. Tech’s ball
on their 15-yard line. Strupper kicked 50 yards to Keesler, who returned 10. D. C.’s ball on Tech’s 40-yard line.
C. Walker and Burns fail to gain. Tech penalized five yards for offside play. Burns gained one through center. Tech
again penalized for offside. Keesler gained five over right tackle. Forward pass failed. Forward pass, Keesler to Walker, netted 25
yards, but Davidson ruled offside and ball brought back. Grey attempted a drop kick from the 30-yard line, which just
missed the bar. Tech’s ball. Half ends. Score: Davidson, 0; Tech, 0.

THIRD QUARTER

Spence kicked off 60 yards to C. Walker, who returned 10. C. Walker gained a yard on an end run
and Tech penalized 15 yards for holding. Keesler fumbled, but Black recovered. Two line bucks fail. Grey punted 40 yards
to Hill, who returned five. Senter hit the line for five. Strupper and Spence made it first down. Strupper makes
a pretty end run, netting 30 yards, and brought the ball to D. C.’s 20-yard line. Tech gained 12 yards
on line bucks. Tech fumbled and Davidson recovered. Grey fumbled a bad pass and was forced to fall on the
ball behind his own goal line, scoring a safety for Tech. Ball brought out to the 20-yard line. Grey punted
40 yards to Hill, who was downed in his tracks. Tech’s ball. Tech penalized half distance to the goal line
for an illegal substitution. Strupper, Senter, and Hill brought the ball to D. C.’s 20-yard line on end runs and
line bucks. Strupper and Dunwoody carried the ball to the four-yard line, where Strupper took it over right tackle for
a touchdown. Spence kicked the goal. Grey kicked 50 yards to Guill, the latter returning.20. Quarter ends. Score: Davidson, 0;
Tech, 9.

FOURTH QUARTER

Tech’s ball on 30-yard line. After two line plays that netted small gain, Strupper kicked 40 yards to Keesler, who
returned five. Davidson's ball. Three plays netted Davidson eight yards and Grey punted to Hill, 45 yards, the latter returning
10. Tech's ball on D. C.’s 25-yard line. Dunwoody failed to gain. Next three plays netted 18 yards. Morrison’s forward
pass intercepted by C. Walker, who returned the ball 10 yards. Davidson’s ball. After two line plays Grey punted 45
yards out of bounds. Hill, Glover, Senter advanced ball to D. C.’s five-yard line. Line held well. Game ended. Davidson,
0; Tech, 9.

The line-up was as follows:

Georgia Tech. Position. Davidson.
Dunwoody .......... R. Walker left end
Bell ................ Elliott left tackle
Long ............... Grey left guard
Phillips ............ B. White (C) center
Fincher ............ Sayad right guard
Carpenter .......... T. White right tackle
Senter ............. Mackorell right end
Morrison ........... Keesler quarterback
Strupper ........... Black left half
Johnston (C) ....... C. Walker right half
Spence ............. Burns fullback

Substitutions—Davidson: Laird for Burns, Elmore for T. White. Georgia Tech: Mauck for Bell, Guill for Morrison, Preas for Dunwoody, Fellers
for Strupper, Hill for Johnston, Bell for Mauck, Morrison for Guill, Glover for Spence, West for Fincher.

Officials—Lewis (Virginia), referee; Beavers (Georgia), umpire; Pitts (Auburn), headlinesman. Time of quarters, 12 minutes.

THE CITADEL GAME

Indications point to a hotly contested game between the Citadel and Davidson next Saturday. Davidson is showing up well and
has gotten valuable experience in playing heavy teams, while Citadel has played only a few collegiate games, the last one
being with the light Clinton team on last Saturday, winning by the score of 34 to 7. The Citadel has
a strong team, with Crouch and Weeks as the outstanding stars; Crouch for his line plunges, and Weeks for his
forward passes and end runs.

COMPARATIVE SCORES.

Harvard, 21; Carolina, 0.
Furman, 63; Due West, 3.
Citadel, 24; Presbyterian College, 7.
Tennessee, 14; Clemson, 0.

Rev. J. C. Shive, who was financial agent for Davidson College last year, preached in Gastonia, N. C., Sunday, October
8th. Mr. Shive is working for the Westminster School, of Rutherfordton, N. C., for one month, before taking up his
duties as president of the Albemarle Normal and Industrial Institute, located at Albemarle, N. C.

We are always glad to serve you. Drink at Our Fountain. Prescriptions compounded with the best drugs by a registered
pharmacist. WE Appreciate YOUR Patronage. The Rexall Store. WHITE DRUG CO. DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

Notice Alumni

Are You A Subscriber to The Davidsonian? If Not, WHY NOT? Every loyal alumnus should keep in touch with the
College and its activities, and the only way to do this is through the pages of The DAVIDSONIAN. Are You
A Loyal Alumnus? If so, send in your name and address, with your dollar, at once, so as not to
miss a single copy.

If you want a box of HUYLER’S to send her... or if you want anything in Stationery, Drinks, Etc., we
have a Complete Line. Drug Company - Prescriptions a Specialty

Hotel Jetton

United Motor Lines

Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We cater to special trips for students. SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN

Frank P. Morton, Manager
L. B. Pattersen, College Representative
