The DAVIDSONIAN | Vol. Hi. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1916. No. 28

Concord Presbyterial Has Successful Meeting
Prominent Speakers and Other Interesting Features.

The tenth annual meeting of Concord Presbyterial was held in the Presbyterian Church, April 18, 19, and 20. Ladies from
churches all over this Presbytery gathered here to plan their work for the coming year. The delegates were met by
a committee, of which Mrs. A. Currie was chairman, assisted by a number of students.

At the morning and evening sessions, the various reports were heard from the different departments of the work, and Thursday
morning Miss Isabel Arnold, of Richmond, Va., delivered an address. The officers elected for the coming year are the same
as those serving last year with three exceptions. Miss Maude Vinson, of Davidson, succeeds Mrs. W. B. Ramsay as Secretary
of Literature, and the office held by Mrs. J. H. Reid, of Davidson, was divided, making Mrs. W. R. Grey
Secretary of Home Missions and Mrs. Reid Secretary of Orphanage.

Tuesday evening's program was rendered in Shearer Hall to give room for the presentation of the missionary pageant. This part
of the program was well given by local young ladies and showed the pressing need of giving Christ to the
foreigners in America. Following this, Dr. Homer McMillan, of Atlanta, Ga., presented the cause of Home Missions. On Wednesday evening,
Mr. W. C. Smith, editor of "The Missionary Survey" and "Onward," delivered a very interesting and instructive address. In opening
his address, Mr. Smith outlined the work of the papers with which he is connected, devoting the remainder of his
time to the main topic of the evening—Foreign Missions. The session of Thursday afternoon closed this successful meeting of the
Presbyterial. Wednesday afternoon the Orchestra and Glee Club gave an informal concert in honor of the visitors.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE.

May 12th—Polit. Sci.
May 13th—Astronomy, Chem. 4.
May 15th—2 p.m., Sr. Appl. Math., Economics 2, Greek 3 or 5, Latin 3 or 4.
May 16th—Phil. 2.
May 17th—Sr. Eng., Education.
May 18th—Greek 1, Greek 2, Fr. 1 (b), Biology 2, Geology, Hist. 3.
May 19th—Chem. 1, Phys. 1, Eng. 2, Appl. Math. 1, Economics 1, Chem. 5, Law.
May 20th—Latin 1, Ger. 1 (b), Latin 2, Phil. 1, Phys. 4.
May 22nd—2 p.m., Ger. 2 (b), Sr. Fr. 2 (b), Spanish, Math. 3, Bible 3, Math. 4.
May 23rd—Bible 1, Phys. 2.
May 24th—Ger. 1 (a), Fr. 1 (a), Chem. 2, Phys. 3.
May 25th—Math. 1, Math. 2, Chem. 3, Pub. Sp.
May 26th—Hist. 1, Greek A, Biology 1, Hist. 2.
May 27th—Eng. 1, Bible 2, Fr. 2 (a), Ger. 2 (a).

INews and Happenings of the Week In Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Miss Mary Young entertained a number of friends Friday afternoon at a luncheon in honor of her guest, Mrs. A.
M. Dixon, of Gastonia, N.C.

Mrs. C. R. Harding has been visiting her daughter, Mrs. A. G. Brenizer, in Charlotte, for the past two weeks.

Miss Floss Houston, who has been teaching for the past winter, has returned home, her school having closed.

Mrs. A. H. Wright, of Calhoun, Ga., spent Monday in Davidson visiting her brother, H. S. Morgan, '17. Mrs. Wright
goes from Davidson to Asheville, where she will visit relatives.

Miss Madie Turner has been visiting relatives and friends in Charlotte for the past week.

Mrs. Will Hall and Mrs. Montgomery, of Statesville, were guests of Miss Hattie Thompson during the meeting of Presbyterial last
week.

Professor and Mrs. Fulton, with Mrs. Fulton's mother, Mrs. Hugheley, spent last Sunday in Charlotte.

Mrs. Arthur Finley, mother of A. G. Finley, '18, has returned to her home in North Wilkesboro after a visit
of several days in the home of Dr. and Mrs. Martin.

Mr. and Mrs. Macon Reed, of Fayetteville, were guests of Dr. and Mrs. Martin on Thursday and Friday of last
week.

Last Saturday afternoon Miss Mamie Withers entertained the Book Lovers’ Club at her home. At this time Mrs. Martin read
a paper on “Russian Folk Lore and Ballads.”

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle attended the pageant in Charlotte on Monday. Their little daughter, Adele, took part in the presentation
of this pageant.

Miss Rode, a representative of the Southern Railway's station work, was a visitor in Davidson last week.

W. J. Martin, Jr., is spending the Easter holidays with his parents. He is a student of Donaldson Military Academy,
Fayetteville.

Dr. J. M. McConnell delivered the Commencement address at Marshville High School last Friday night, April 19th.

STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS NEXT MONDAY MORNING

On next Monday morning after chapel an important meeting of the student body will be held, at which time the
officers for next year will be chosen. Chapel exercises will be held after breakfast on that day. The literary societies
will hold their regular meetings immediately after the student body meeting.

Davidson Is Defeated In Two Track Meets — Red and Black.

TRINITY MEET.

In her first inter-collegiate track meet of theSeason Davidson last Friday met defeat at the hands of Trinity, 81 to
36. Trinity had an advantage over her rival in that she had fresh men for all of the events. For
all the events, Trinity entered 23 men, while Davidson had only 10. Brand smashed Johnson's record of last year in
the mile run, thereby winning his “D.” On the basis of points won in the meet, Perry, Morrison, and Grey
also win a “D.” Ruff, of Trinity, scored the highest number of individual points, taking first place in the 100-yard
dash, 220-yard dash, and broad jump, for a total of 15 points out of a possible 15. Other first places
won by Trinity men were low hurdles and high hurdles by Price, two-mile by Osborne, half-mile by Coman, high jump
and pole vault by Matton, and the shot put by Thompson. Crouch and Grey did the highest scoring for Davidson,
the former winning first place in the 440-yard dash and second in the half-mile, and the latter getting first honors
in the discus throw and second place in the shot put. Brand won the only other first place for Davidson
by coming out ahead in the mile run.

A. & M. MEET.
The track team was defeated by the fast crew of A. & M. College on the latter’s field in Raleigh
on last Monday morning. The Tech lads won 80 points to their opponents’ 36. The meet was not characterized by
any record-breaking speed, as the cinder path was not in good shape. The farmers took the lead and held a
wide margin throughout. McDougald, of A. & M., was the individual star, taking five first places. Perry did good work
for the Presbyterians, winning first in the pole vault, second in the broad jump, and two third places. Brand did
well on the long distances but was outclassed by the Tech boys.

HIGH SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT
The Davidson High School will close its 1915-16 term on May 6th. On the following Tuesday, May 9th, the regular
commencement exercises will be held in Shearer Hall. At this time, the graduating class, composed of nine members, will give
its class day exercises, and a prominent speaker from out of town will deliver the literary address. The speaker has
not yet been selected. Two other events which are to be given about commencement time will add much to the
interest of the closing days. One of these is a declamation and recitation contest. Prizes will be awarded to the
winners of this contest on the closing night. The other event is an entertainment to be given by the fifth
and sixth grades of the Grammar School. This will probably take place a week or two before commencement.

Oscar Thies, Jr., '18; S. T. Henderson, '17; and E. P. Nisbet, '17, spent Easter at home in Charlotte.

Four Games Are Won By Red and Black
Varsity Begins Trip In Successful Manner.

CHARLOTTE GAME.
In a game characterized by hard hitting and ragged fielding, Davidson lost to Charlotte Wednesday by a score of 9
to 8. The game was a tie until the ninth inning, when two singles and a neat sacrifice enabled the
leaguers to push across the winning run. Currie, in the box for Davidson, was hit hard, thirteen hits being garnered
off his delivery. However, he pitched good ball in the pinches. Redding, the first Charlotte twirler, was very effective for
four innings, but the locals found him for eight hits and as many runs in the next three, driving him
from the mound. Geary, who succeeded him, held Davidson in check for the remainder of the game. Johnson and McMillan
led the hitting for the Red and Black, while Myers had the best day at bat for Charlotte. Score by
innings: R. H. E.
Davidson 000 022 400—8 10 3
Charlotte 330 010 101—9 13 7

WOFFORD GAME.
Davidson easily defeated Wofford at Spartanburg Thursday to the tune of 9 to 3 in a rather slow game. Kirkwood,
the Wofford twirler, was hit hard and was unsteady in the pinches. Hengeveld pitched for the Red and Black, and
though he was hit hard, managed to keep the hits well scattered. He was accorded excellent support by his teammates.
Davidson scored three runs in the first inning. Johnson led off with a single and was advanced to third by
Alford with another. McMillan walked, filling the bases, and Kirkwood hit Saunders, forcing in Johnson. Brown then came across with
a timely single, scoring Alford and McMillan. Another run came in the fourth on Wood's single and two errors by
the Wofford team. Kirkwood's wildness, an error by Morgan, and a single by Black accounted for three more runs in
the fifth, while singles by Johnson and McMillan and a double by Brown in the ninth inning gave the team
its final pair of tallies. Johnson led the hitting for the locals, getting three hits out of four times up.
Wood's fielding was a feature. He accepted seven chances without an error. Moore was the star for Wofford, getting three
hits. Score by innings: R. H. E.
Davidson 300 013 002—9 9 2
Wofford 000 101 001—3 8 3

FIRST FURMAN GAME.
The next two games of the trip were played with Furman University, at Greenville, on Friday and Saturday. Both games
resulted in a victory for the Red and Black, the scores being 4 to 2 and 14 to 1. Lawson
was Coach Fetzer’s choice on the mound for the first game, and he pitched great ball, striking out eight men
and allowing but seven scattered hits. He was given strong support by his teammates. Both of Furman’s runs came in
the first inning. Davidson came (Continued on page 4)
