The DAVIDSONIAN — Vol. IV.

Red and Black Wins From Roanoke College

Davidson Defeats Opponents on Their Home Grounds.

Outclassing their opponents at every stage of the game and uncovering plays that completely dumbfounded them, Davidson triumphed over Roanoke
College at Roanoke Saturday by the score of 20 to 0. While the Roanoke eleven fought hard and were cheered
on by their enthusiastic supporters, yet they were unable to offer strong enough resistance to stop the Red and Black
machine as it swept across the field.

Keesler, as usual, played a sensational game for Davidson, his field generalship and fast running being a feature, and making
the first touchdowns possible. He was succeeded in the second half by Lawson, who also showed up well. The Walker
brothers, “Bob” and “Steve,” starred in almost every play, the former scoring two of Davidson’s touchdowns. Sayad was a bulwark
in the line, and the Roanoke papers say that “White, at center, gave an exhibition here which has never been
equalled on the local gridiron.” Anspach, at left half, and Eastes, right end, were the particular stars for Roanoke.

The game was featured by heavy penalties, Davidson losing 97 yards and Roanoke 78 for breaches of rules.

GAME IN DETAIL

Roanoke received the kick-off, Elmore kicking to Eastes, who returned 10 yards. Roanoke gained 15 yards on the first play,
a forward pass. Davidson took the ball after an incomplete pass and a loss of 15 yards by Roanoke in
a bad pass to the backfield. Laird gained 2 around tackle, and Keesler repeated with 5. Davidson was penalized twice
for off-side, and Grey attempted a drop kick from the 38-yard line, but failed. Roanoke gained 5 yards, but was
penalized 15, and Krieger punted to Keesler, who returned 30 yards. Laird gained 3 and 6 yards respectively, and Keesler
made 18 around end. A moment later he plunged through the line for the first score. Grey kicked goal. Roanoke
received again and lost three times in succession. C. Walker gained 12 for Davidson.

SECOND QUARTER

Keesler took 20 yards around end but failed to gain on the next play. The second touchdown was then scored
on a forward pass from Keesler to R. Walker. Grey kicked goal. Anspach returned the ball 50 yards on the
kick-off. A forward pass failed, and Keesler returned Krieger's punt 10 yards. Laird gained 4 through center. Davidson punted. Roanoke
attempted a pass but failed and was later penalized for holding. Two more passes failed, and Roanoke was forced to
punt, Keesler returning 5 yards. Walker failed to gain, and Grey punted. After a few line plays and an exchange
of punts, the half ended. Davidson, 14; Roanoke, 0.

THIRD QUARTER

Davidson kicked off to Anspach, who advanced the ball 8 yards. Roanoke was thrown for two losses and punted. Black
gained 5 through the line, and Flowers followed with 1. A pass failed. Burns took 2 through the line, Black
added (Continued on page 6)

Interesting Exercises Held--- Dr. Whaling Makes Address.

On last Thursday, October 26th, Davidson College Day was celebrated, this being the eightieth anniversary of the founding of Davidson
College. The true date of its founding is March 4, 1837, but it has become the custom to celebrate this
anniversary during the fall term. At 11:30 all the students assembled in Shearer Hall and the regular morning devotional exercises
were conducted by Dr. Arbuckle. Immediately after the devotional exercises, Dr. Fulton, chairman of the Faculty Committee, took charge of
the meeting. After the singing of a song, the honor roll for the past year was read by Dr. Lingle.
Dr. Harding then gave an account of what is being done and what has already been accomplished by some prominent
Davidson men. He stated that from 1870 to 1916 there had been 1,358 men who had received A.B. and B.S.
degrees. Another item of note was that 3 out of the 4 seminaries in the South have Davidson College graduates
as presidents, and that among the great men who have attended Davidson is to be found President Woodrow Wilson. He
closed by saying that Davidson was especially honored by having as the speaker of the day one of her former
students, Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Columbia, S.C.

Dr. Whaling was then introduced by Professor Fulton. Dr. Whaling was a member of the class of 1877, and a
classmate of Woodrow Wilson. He is now the President of Columbia Theological Seminary, of Columbia, S.C. Dr. Whaling chose as
his subject the three necessary elements of a college man. These three elements, he said, are courage, humor, and faith.
He explained that it is impossible to look into the future and see what is going to happen tomorrow. The
drama of life is ever shifting, and the scenery changes even as we look. Danger and unexpected occurrences are a
daily part of every man's life, especially one who wants to be a real man. For this reason, men should
be equipped for every crisis, and the purpose of the college is to equip men in both mind and body
for the battle of life. He explained that a man can never reach true manhood as long as he lets
what other people say about him influence his life. He should decide what is right, and then have courage enough
to stick to his principles, no matter what the other fellow says. True courage means to hold to the highest
that we know, no matter what the different parties may present to us.

He stated that courage and humor may be called twin sisters. The incidents that are the most humorous often contain
the greatest truths and lessons, while some characteristics of men and even of nations are sometimes best expressed and understood
through a joke. In the little incidents that happened...In the lives of Shakespeare, Abraham Lincoln, Robert E. Lee, Stonewall Jackson,
and even in the characters of the Bible, we see that each one possessed a deep sense of humor. By
this sense of humor lawyers win their cases in court, mer- (Continued on page 6)

Davidson College Day
(Two Lectures Given Celebrated Thursday)
at Davidson Last Week
One in Form of Moving Pictures, the Other on Persia.

The Student Body and town-people were favored with a treat Friday night when the moving pictures of Sir Douglas Mawson’s
Antarctic expedition were shown in Shearer Hall under the auspices of the faculty. This is the first of a series
of lectures to be given this year. The pictures were entertaining, and not only were of interest from a scientific
standpoint, but had great educational value as well, showing in a vivid way animal life of the polar regions, and
the thrilling experiences of the explorers. The pictures are under the exclusive management of Lee Keedick, of New York, and
were in six reels, and were shown and explained by an operator sent from the company.

Among the most interesting features were the pictures of the penguins, submarine birds who possess almost human intelligence. Their antics
and comic walk brought forth many laughs. The views of the icebergs and effects of blizzards were also very interesting.

LECTURE ON PERSIA
Rev. Paul Shimmon, of Urimiah, Persia, last Wednesday night at the Presbyterian church gave a very interesting lecture on the
effects of the present war in Persia. By use of a map of Persia and surrounding countries, he pointed out
the location of the Armenians with respect to Russia, Persia, and Turkey. The strategic position of the Armenians caused the
Turks to think that the Russians, through this territory of their Christian brothers, might someday invade Turkey. So the Turks
forced the Armenians to migrate to other parts of the Turkish Empire. Mr. Shimmon made the astounding statement that up
to this fall about 75,000 of the Armenians had perished, most of them while migrating.

Next, he brought the scene nearer to his home. He said when the Russian troops were called from Northwestern Persia,
to keep the Turks from severing communications by destroying the railroad, that then was the time the fanatic Mohammedans and
all who hated the Christians persecuted them most severely. For ten days an indescribable reign of terror prevailed. The Kurds,
a wild, mountainous, Mohammedan tribe, incited by the Germans and the Turks, came down, and without any regard for rank
or file, and without any quarter, devastated and plundered towns. Men, women, and children were treated in treacherous and brutal
ways. As many people as could came to Urimiah and put themselves in the American mission compound and under the
American flag. Mr. Shimmon experienced many of the trials of the fugitive. He spoke of the heroic missionaries who gave
up their lives to save others. At the close of the lecture, a free-will offering was taken, and the sum
was sent to New York City by Dr. J. M. Douglas, to the Committee on Relief for Armenian and Syrian
sufferers. Mrs. Shimmon is the sister of Mr. Yonan, who was a student of Davidson, and who in the summer
of 1906 made (Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 1, 1916. No. 8

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Mrs. A. Currie is steadily improving from a recent illness.
Mrs. Lafferty had for her guest last week her niece, Miss Sallie Phillips.
Mrs. J. M. Wharey spent last week in Salisbury.
Mrs. Hobbs, who has been ill in the Statesville Sanatorium, will probably return home this week.
Mrs. M. B. Greer, a missionary at Hsuchowfu, China, will spend Friday with Mrs. Worth.
Miss Annie Jones has returned from Greenwood, S. C., where she was called to the bedside of her sister, whose
condition has since improved.
Miss Maude Vinson, Miss Julia Johnston, Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Withers, and Mrs. Arbuckle, were among those who went to Charlotte
last week to see Maude Adams in “The Little Minister.”
Miss Elizabeth Atkins, niece of Mrs. Chas. Carson, of Charlotte, will spend next Sunday with Miss Francis Worth.
Miss Elise Amis is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Reid for a few weeks.
Rev. L. E. Wells, pastor of the Presbyterian church at Teacheys, N. C., and a Davidson graduate, has been spending
several days on the Hill, and preached Sunday morning in the local church.
Rev. A. J. Howell, of Wilmington, N. C., spent the week-end here with his son, C. Howell, ’19, and spoke
at the Christian Endeavor meeting Sunday afternoon and at church at night.
Among the visitors for the Davidson-Cornelius High School game Saturday afternoon were Rev. and Mrs. Wannamaker, and Mr. Biggers, principal
of the Cornelius School.

CALENDAR OF EVENTS.
Wednesday, November 1st—Golf Tournament begins; Fresh-Soph Basketball game; Finals in Tennis Singles.
Thursday, November 2nd—7:00 p.m. Y. M. C. A.
Friday, November 3rd—8:00 p.m., Polity Club.
Saturday, November 4th—Davidson vs. Furman, Greenville, S. C.; 7:45 p.m., Literary Societies.
Sunday, November 5th—9:45 a.m., Bible Classes; 4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
Monday, November 6th—8:45, Literary Societies; 7:00 p.m. Freshmen Eumenean Society; Annual Photographer on Hill.
Tuesday, November 7th—Election Day. Returns received in Shearer Hall at night, probably.
Wednesday, November 8th—An anticipated holiday.
