Go to Goodrum & Co. There is where you get the latest styles in Caps, Shoes, Neckwear, Underwear, and Interwoven Sox. Ivory Garters. 

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Cleaning and Pressing
Prompt and Efficient Service

TOBE JOHNSON
16 years at same place

New Line of Ladies’ & Children’s Shoes
Consisting of Grover's and Shelley's, are open for your inspection, are splendid values. Come in and let us fit you up for the whole family.

Armour Bros. & Thompson

GOOD COAL
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with Cashier of Bank.

C. L. GREY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

C. C. BROWN
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Interior Decorator
Most complete line of Wall Paper in the South.

The DAVIDSONIAN, March 29, 1916

WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE MONEY.

Let Your Next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s

Misenheimer & Payne, Agts.
No. 4 Watts

WITH THE ALUMNI. A REQUEST.
Plans for the reunions of various classes have been announced for the coming commencement. The Alumni Editor will be glad to furnish any information possible to the alumni who wish it and will give the plans for these as they are arranged. Address all letters to T. J. Mitchell, Alumni Editor, Box 89, Davidson, N. C.

It will be greatly appreciated by the management of the paper if alumni will send in at any time news of interest to both the student body and the other alumni.

C. G. Lynch, Paw Creek, N.C.
Clarence M. Lentz, '06, is a physician at Gold Hill, Rowan County, N.C.
Robert A. Lowry, of Knoxville, Tenn., is a traveling salesman.
Angus N. Littlejohn, '13, is a theological student at Columbia Seminary, Columbia, S.C., No. 1600 Blanding St.
C. H. Little, ’96, is a minister, address Charlotte, N. C., R. F. D. No. 2.
Thomas M. Lee, ‘90, of Clinton, N. C., was a minister of Methodist Episcopal Church, South, but has retired on account of ill health and is now in the insurance and brokerage business.
Victor P. Leovy, of 219 Carondelet St., New Orleans, La., is with the firm Denegre, Leovy & Chaffe.
J. H. Lowry, ’71, has been City Recorder of Sweetwater, Tenn., for the past ten years, and was recently elected for another period of two years.
L. Lane, ‘09, is manager of Ashland Oil Mill & Fertilizer Company, Ashland, Ala.
J. T. Linney, ’08, is teaching at Hiddenite, N. C.
John Grier Love, ‘08, is an automobile dealer in Atlanta, Ga.
Samuel P. Lemly, ’09, is a traveling salesman, with headquarters at 703 Pine St., Texarkana, Tex.
D. A. Lynch, ‘10, is at Fort Stanton, New Mexico.
J. A. Link, ’07, is a practicing dentist, address Fourth National Bank Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
P. E. Lyles, '10, is an attorney-at-law, Columbia, S.C.
Ben. R. Lacy, Jr., '06, is a Presbyterian minister at Willow Springs, N. C.
Jno. B. Lawing, ’99, is a mail carrier, No. 310 W. Seventeenth St., Norfolk, Va.
H. S. Lee, '14, is a civil engineer, Raleigh, N. C.
R. E. C. Lawson, '90, is a Presbyterian minister at Springfield, Ky.
J. L. Lineberger, ’91, of Lincolnton, N.C., is secretary and treasurer of the Eureka Manufacturing Company.
George S. LeGrand, ’84, of Wilmington, N. C., is auditor of passenger receipts of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad.
Warren Lott, ’01, of Waycross, Ga., is engaged in the insurance and real estate business.
W. C. Lynch, '03, is a merchant at Edgefield, S. C.
Wm. F. Lightsey, ’97, is a merchant, planter, and lumber manufacturer at Hampton, S. C.
S. B. Lyerly, ’12, is a student at Union Theological Seminary.Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Preparedness
We are prepared to furnish on the shortest notice the best that is to be had in Printing. Let J. H. CARSON, our Davidson representative, quote you prices.
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Alex. Y. Little, '95, is a physician and surgeon, Valdosta, Ga.
R. E. Lome, '03, of Washington, Ga., is an insurance solicitor.
A. T. Lassiter, '10, is engaged in home mission work, address Benson, N.C., Box 35.
S. J. Lanier, '13, of 223 W. Thirty-Second St., is a chemist for the Southern Cotton Oil Co., Savannah, Ga.
W. E. Lynch, '13, is an attorney-at-law, Rowland, N.C.
Marvin A. Lackey, '15, of 510 N. Fourth St., Richmond, Va., is a student at the Medical College of Virginia. His home address is Huntersville, N.C.
R. E. Little, '73, of Wadesboro, N.C., received license to practice law from the Supreme Court of North Carolina, June term, 1879; retired from the profession on account of ill health in 1898, and since that time has been engaged in private business.
E. P. Faires, '13, is a civil engineer at Smithfield, N.C.
E. L. McCalive, '06, is agent for the Standard Oil Company in Tientsin, China.
W. J. McKay, '70, is a clergyman, 209 Broad St., Sumter, S.C.
T. J. McNeely, '91, of Guthrie, Okla., is superintendent of the Pioneer Cotton Mills.
R. L. McNair, '03, of Dunn, N.C., is a minister.
A. R. McQueen, '92, is a clergyman at Blackstone, Va.

Now’s The Time To Arrange For Music And ANDREWS MUSIC STORE IS THE PLACE
Player Pianos and Player Rolls, Victor Talking Machines and Records. Strings for all instruments and thousands of copies of Sheet Music.
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.
Clemson—In honor of the memory of John C. Calhoun, Clemson students were given a full holiday on March 21. The following brief account is from the last issue of The Tiger: “Calhoun’s childhood was spent on the farm and his chances for getting an education were few. After some preparation in Waddell's School, he entered the Junior class at Yale in 1802, and finished with distinction in 1804. He then studied in a law office in Charleston.”

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men
Lion Brand Collars
Shirts, Socks
Handkerchiefs
Ties
Anything to Wear

New High School Paper—The first issue of a neat, well-edited high school paper, “The School Month,” published by the students of Marion, N.C., High School, has just come to our desk. We welcome the high school papers.

Victorious in Debating—Trinity has won the decision in the two intercollegiate debates in which she has engaged this spring, defeating both Swarthmore and Washington and Lee.

North Carolina—A Shakespeare pageant will be presented by the students of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on April 24th and 25th. Selected scenes from “Henry the Fourth” and “Hamlet” will be presented.

Wake Forest—Wake Forest's new catalog shows the total registration of the college to be 503. Of this number 443 are from North Carolina; 22 from South Carolina and 14 from Virginia. Davidson's total registration is only 357. Of this number 192 are from North Carolina; 64 from South Carolina; 27 from Georgia; 15 from Virginia; 13 each from Mississippi and Tennessee.

W. G. Somerville, ex-'16, spent last Sunday on the Hill, and left Monday morning for Winston-Salem. His work will keep him in North Carolina for the next three months.

Belk Brothers
McClure Agent