Edmunds, superintendent of the Sumter, S.C., high schools in connection with the work of military training in public schools. It says in part: “Professor Edmunds has received hundreds of letters, from all sections of the country, making further inquiry regarding the system of military training. Since November, too, many schools have adopted the plan of training in vogue at Sumter.”

Bible Study Rally: Held Thursday Night
An Interesting Program Is Enjoyed by Large Number.

The annual Bible study rally of the Y.M.C.A. held last Thursday night proved to be one of the most interesting of such meetings held in recent years. As a result, the outlook for a successful year in Bible study is very promising. Mr. C.W. Tillett, Jr., of Charlotte, in presenting the cause, made a strong and forceful plea to the students to enter this work. He showed that a careful study of the Bible would serve a valuable purpose in all phases of life and would develop character as nothing else would. In addition to Mr. Tillett’s address, the Student Body was favored with an excellent musical program rendered by Miss Ella Moseley, with violin, and Miss Adelaide Moseley, with vocal solos, accompanied by Miss Essie Stokes. The enrollment up to date in the classes is 184. The courses with the leaders of each are:

Christian Life, a Normal Experience — A.P. Saunders, G.C. Bellingrath, I.H. Eikel.
Student Standards of Action (especially for Freshmen) — R.H. Ratchford, W.C. Frierson, C.J. Mathews.
The Life of Christ — J.R. Woods, R.H. Stone, W.H. Neal.
New Studies in Acts — Dr. J.M. McConnell, H. Campbell.
Paul in Everyday Life — Dr. H.B. Arbuckle, H.W. Ormand.

WITH THE ALUMNI.

Messrs. John Gillespie, C.M. Gibbs, G.R. McGregor, Fred Hay, P.D. Patrick, P.W. DuBose, and J.W. Brown are students at Columbia Seminary this year. Another Davidson man, I.B. Belk, is expected in October. Messrs. H.L. Reaves and H.D. Corbett, of Davidson, graduated at Columbia Seminary last session. Mr. Reaves is preaching at Greelyville and Lanes, S.C. Mr. Corbett is preaching at Upper Long Cane church, near Abbeville, S.C., while Mr. Reaves is under appointment to go to the foreign field. Mr. R.M. Phillips, who was not in the seminary last session, is to return soon.

The following are extracts from a letter received a day or two ago by the editor: “Please enter me as a subscriber for The Davidsonian for the year 1916-17, for which enclosed please find check for $1.00. I live a great way from Davidson, but love it just the same as when I left it in 1912. I will be present at the 1917 commencement if the class of 1912 has a reunion on that occasion. It does my heart good to note that Davidson is maintaining her old prestige in athletics. Sincerely yours,”

Friends of Dr. Neal L. Anderson, formerly pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Winston-Salem, will regret to learn that he has decided to accept the call to the presidency of the Austin Theological Seminary in Austin, Tex. Dr. Anderson is a Davidson alumnus and has always taken a keen interest in the college. We all regret his departure but wish for him the best of success in his new work.

A recent number of the American Review of Reviews contains an article dealing with the work of Prof. S.H. Edmunds, particularly in regard to his system of military training, because of the interest which is now being taken in this matter throughout the country. The article includes a number of extracts from letters to Professor Edmunds regarding the movement. Professor Edmunds is another alumnus of Davidson who has “made good” in his chosen field, and his work in building up the schools of Sumter has attracted a good deal of attention.

The following is a letter received recently from Francisco del Rio, who was in college last year from Cuba. He is located this year at Ada, Ohio, where he is studying.

To My Friends:
Words fail me, my friends, to tell you goodbye. I can’t tell how sorry I feel in this moment to say to you such sad words. Believe me, my friends, when one has lived in a place like Davidson, among the best people and among the nicest fellows, one doesn’t know how to say goodbye. I confess with all my heart that I am and will be under many obligations to Davidson College, which has done for me what I did not expect. I hope you will have a very successful year and your work will be very satisfactory. Goodbye to the faculty of the college and to you all.
Frank L. del Rio.

Among the old men who have visited the Hill during the past three weeks are: G.W. Gignilliat, who was at Harvard last year; J.E. Faw, now with the American Telephone Co., in the Charlotte offices; J.E. Cousar, J.R. McGregor, U.S. Alexander, who taught at Myers School in Savannah, Ga., during the past year; W.A. McIlwaine, teacher at Mt.Hermon School, and A. R. Howland, all of the class of '15. Others who were also on the Hill were: I. G. Patton, L. A. Mullen, T. D. Sparrow, H. B. Craig, J. H. Carson who enters the University of Pennsylvania this fall, and J. L. Payne, of the class of '16. Other visitors were: "Butch" McKay, ex-'17, who is now at the University of Virginia; E. R. Campbell, H. B. Overcash, and "Pud" Crosby.

J. C. McCaskill, ex-'17, of Bainbridge, Ga., has entered the Georgia School of Technology for the coming year. S. R. Keesler, '17; L. M. Thomas and R. P. Richardson, '18, attended a meeting of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity at the University of North Carolina last week.

On Tuesday and Wednesday, October 3rd and 4th, examinations will be held in Raleigh for the Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University. Any students interested in these examinations can secure full details from Dr. T. W. Lingle.

Miss Orrie Steele, of Rock Hill, S. C., arrived Monday to take up her work as secretary to President Martin.

The date for Senior Speaking this year has been determined upon as December 1st and 2nd, the Friday and Saturday following Thanksgiving.

There follows, in the article, quite a bit of information.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, September 27, 1916

PIANOS AT ALL PRICES

The main thing in buying a piano is not high polish or exterior considerations—but TONE—and lasting WORKMANSHIP. These you buy with any PIANO we offer here at factory prices. Mail the coupon today for catalogue and note our unusual prices and liberal terms.

COUPON

Please send me catalogue of pianos today without obligation to me.

—Established 1812—
Chas. M. Stieff
219 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TYPEWRITING
Underwood Machine: Quality & Service
W. L. DOUGLAS, No. 7 N. W. Chambers

Protect Your Eyes: Get a Nifty ADAPTER STUDENT LAMP
W. L. DOUGLAS: No. 7 Chambers

THE MOVIE MENACE.

The moving pictures have been hailed by many good people as an effective and modern agency calculated to greatly assist in education and healthy amusement. It is a sad fact that every power for good may be used for evil, and that seems to be the present drift of the moving pictures. Not the religious press, but the secular are the loudest in the cries against the "menace of the movies." Everywhere the evil is growing, and parents and municipal authorities are asleep. All are wide enough awake about the physical menace of the infantile paralysis. For that cause, the movies are closed to children. Why not close them, because of the moral menace? Are the bodies of men more important than their spirits? Is physical paralysis any more terrible than moral paralysis? Yet there has been an increasing cry against the fearful pollution. The Providence Journal, in plain language, discusses the subject and asserts that the movies persistently stage rottenness which would never have been allowed in the days of the spoken plays. It goes on to say:

"A large proportion—perhaps eighty per cent—of the films shown in this country are of such a character that they ought never to be displayed, particularly to boys and girls in the most impressionable period of life. They present crime and lasciviousness under the thinnest veneer or convention. They appeal to the passions of those who gaze upon them. They invite imitation. They put dangerous or unclean thoughts into the wholesome and unspoiled minds. They work insidiously—and sometimes even with startling frankness—to achieve their improper ends. Conditions at Providence are not substantially different from conditions elsewhere. Any informed and disinterested person will testify to the rank and suggestiveness and open vulgarity of much of the stuff that is thrown on the screen in this city. Millions of American citizens visit movie houses every day. We cannot afford to go on loosely and indefinitely, indifferent to the menace. That it is a menace is becoming plainer all the time."

Surely the time for action, especially on the part of Christians, has come. They are commended to come out and not to touch the unclean thing. If the movies remain for the Church, they must be purified.
—The Presbyterian.

NOW FOR FOOTBALL

Why not play with the Spalding Intercollegiate Football No. J-5? This is the one used in every big college game, because it is the best ball viewed from every standpoint. Our football line is complete in everything needed for the player. Write for Catalogue.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with cashier of Bank
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

LINCOLN VS. SANTA CLAUS.

It was Lincoln's birthday and Miss Nichols, the teacher, was giving a talk on the hero of the day. Finally, one little fellow asked anxiously:

"Lincoln wasn't better than Santa Claus, was he?"

"Santa Claus is good and so was Lincoln. There's a great difference between their sorts of goodness," replied Miss Nichols diplomatically.

"But, since Lincoln died, Santa Claus has been the best man in the world, hasn't he?" persisted Jimmy loyally.
—Exchange.

I know that He is there as I am here
By the same proof, which seems no proof at all,
It so exceeds familiar forms of proof.
—Browning.