WHEN YOU TRADE WITH US WE BOTH MAKE

Let your next Shoes be Gilmer-Moore’s
Charlotte, N. C.
Call on our representative at Davidson and be convinced

WE SELL
Schloss Bros.’ Hand Tailored Suits and Overcoats, $15.00 to $30.00
Styleplus, Guaranteed Suits and Overcoats, $17
Stetson and Belk Hats, Fall Styles
Ralston Health and Reynolds Shoes
Lion Shirts and Collars
See two special men’s union suits at 98c. and $1.50

BELK BROTHERS
Charlotte, N. C.
McClure, Agent
35 Chambers

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest: Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
Sayad & Douglas, Agents
7 Chambers
Quickest

Fellows—
If you are getting up a Feed—
Stop in and see S. C. Scofield
Best line of Fruit, Candy, Peanuts, Etc., in town

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. O. PATTERSON, Representative

The DAVIDSONIAN, TO THE STUDENTS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

No activity governed by the Davidson Student Body represents intellectual effort and culture so exclusively as the Magazine. Three things,
however, are not inconsistent with interest and it is the policy of the new management to stimulate the subject matter
of the Magazine by adding interest to its contents. The greatest problem of the editors is the securing of fresh
material. There is always a certain number of men who are willing to contribute to the Magazine. But our policy
aims to be different from that of the Cosmopolitan; we wish to have different writers appear in the different issues.
Nothing kills interest quite so quickly as lack of variety. We have been trying to find a means for securing
enough money to enable us to offer a small sum for stories and articles published. Perhaps we may be able
to do this yet. Next, we are trying to build up a circulation list which will add to the number
of readers of the Magazine and therefore to the honor of appearing in its table of contents. But we must
demonstrate to our subscribers the value of the Magazine before they will read it and thus the responsibility of increasing
the circulation falls back on the staff. It is our wish to as nearly as possible make the staff a
group of manuscript readers rather than of manuscript furnishers. In other words, we wish the Magazine to be truly a
publication of the students rather than of the staff. The business of the staff should be to read manuscript, furnished
by other students. We wish to make the Magazine a place where ambitious literary students can find an opportunity for
appearing in print. Yet at the same time the standard of work must be high. Therefore we make

September 20, 1916

and take it down and pack it to move in another hour. The present daily schedule calls for eight hours
drill and we must make three marches a week and one night march every two weeks. In the last two
weeks we have been out for three nights in heavy marching order, each man carrying and cooking all his own
rations. There are a number of Davidson alumni thru the brigade and many of them hold commissions, but not in
proportion to the men who have had any military training. In the hospital corps we have R. W. Porter, ‘57,
and three boys from the town of Davidson: Douglas Brown, Lamont Fields and Louis Johnston, and there are not four
finer soldiers in the whole brigade. Brown, Porter and Johnston expected to be in college by this time, but the
order releasing college men has been revoked. There were a number of prospective students for Davidson scattered through the brigade
and I had some attractive football material in mind for Fetzer, but it has all been called off. It is
good to learn that the athletic prospects are so promising in college. We have a team here of old college
stars and would be glad to bring them up for a game if our movement to the border is held
off much longer. Wishing each of you a year of great things and hoping that the Mexican trouble will quiet
down so that I may be back with you before the year closes, I am,

Cordially yours,
Jno. W. MacConnell

BOARDING HOUSES ADOPT CERTAIN RULES

The managers of all the boarding houses on the Hill, after conferencesthis proposition to their respective landladies, the students have
agreed upon and adopted the following rules to become effective October 1, 1916. It was due to the increased cost
of foodstuffs and the lack of system in the management that the following rules were adopted:

1. A man must remain at a house for at least one month, unless leaving for an athletic training table,
and in that event will be charged board until he notifies the manager of the change.
2. Before leaving, a student must give at least one week's notification of the change.
3. No man will be received into a boarding house until he has made satisfactory arrangements with the manager he
is leaving about payment.
4. In case of absence of any member of a boarding house, no man can take his place without payment.
5. Returning alumni or guests must pay board at rates agreed upon by the manager.
6. Board is due and payable between the 1st and 10th of each month.
7. No rebate will be given for absences of less than ten days. When a man is absent ten days
or more, he will be credited with the period of absence in additional board.

LeRoy A. CHAMBLISS, Editor, The Magazine.

Field Hospital No. 1,
Camp Glenn, N. C., Sept. 16, 1916.

I am taking this opportunity through the columns of THE Davidsonian to extend a welcome to the many new students
of whose arrival I have heard through the press notices, and also to welcome the older students with whom I
have been associated the past few years. Since June 10th, I have been in service with the Field Hospital of
the First N. C. Brigade. Our forces here consist of three regiments of infantry, two troops of cavalry, a machine
gun company, two companies of engineers, an ambulance company, and a field hospital. The field hospital has been acting as
the camp hospital and handles all the sick in camp. The number of patients runs from 50 to 70 in
the wards and the character of the service is similar to that of a general hospital, being both medical and
surgical. Our detachment consists of 67 men—many of them students and some from every conceivable walk of life, but in
the main, all are efficient. We can set up a hospital for 216 patients in one hour.

SPECIAL ENGLISH CLASS.

Dr. Fulton has announced the names of the men who have been selected to take the course in Special English
during the coming year. The list is as follows: S. M. Crisp, W. H. Neal, Andrew Brown, S. T. Henderson,
L. A. Chambliss, E. H. Hamilton, and T. J. Mitchell.

Freshman Class—"A comedy of errors."
Sophomore Class—"Much ado about nothing."
Junior Class—"As you like it."
Senior Class—"All’s well that ends well."

We Invite You to Call at Our Store When in need of Regal Shoes, Gents’ Furnishings, and Stylish Collars. Also,
a good line of Scout Shoes for everyday wear. Make Our Store Headquarters.

Armour Bros. & Thompson

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL MORGAN — Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts.

27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

When in Mooresville Visit The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY
Best Line of General Merchandise in Town
New Line of Haberdashery and Shoes
We appreciate your trade
