4

FAVORABLE OUTLOOK FOR TRACK SCHEDULE

With the renewed interest in track and field athletics, Davidson should have a good schedule this spring. There will be two meets on the “Hill,” and the team will probably make one trip. Roy Perry, the manager, says that Clemson will probably sign a contract for a meet here on May 6. The “Tigers” have a strong team, and the match will be a good one. Wake Forest asks for a meet here for either April 29 or May 13. The contract has not been signed, but the meet is assured. Here, again, Davidson will have to work hard to cope with the Baptists. It is probable that the team will make a trip in April. The manager is negotiating with Trinity and A. & M. for the “off-Hill” meet. The prospect for a strong team is good. Coach Kluttz is to have charge of these teams, and practice will begin in a short time.

GOLF CLUB NEWS

The recently elected officers of the Golf Club are: Dr. J. M. McConnell, president; Prof. W. W. Wood, treasurer; and J. H. Carson, secretary, who are planning many improvements in the course. The fairways will be worked over and several new traps will be made, one or two of the badly situated bunkers having been closed. On this improved course, the annual spring handicap tournament of the club will be held in March. This should be a lively affair, since the weather this winter has been exceptionally good for golfing. Along with this tournament among ourselves, the club is also endeavoring to get a professional connected with the Wright & Ditson Co. to come here to play an exhibition game.

NEW FRATERNITY HALLS

In accordance with a faculty ruling that all fraternities shall be out of Chambers by January 1, 1917, the Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities will shortly vacate their present halls. The Beta Theta Pi fraternity has already begun work on their new hall in Oak Row. Although work has been going on for a week, it will not be completed until after Junior Speaking. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities have not begun work yet. The old “D” room and Gryphon hall will be occupied by the S. A. E.'s. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity will move into Elm Row. Neither of these halls will be completed until after Junior Speaking.

GYM TEAM ITEMS

As most of the members of the Gym Team are playing class football, regular practice for the exhibition at Junior Speaking has not begun yet. The team expects to try some new stunts when practice begins, and several new men are needed. After Junior Speaking, the team expects to make an extensive trip, giving exhibitions, but no definite plans have as yet been made. At a recent meeting of the team, P. B. Price was elected manager.

WITH OTHER COLLEGES

Columbia University—The Columbia Spectator is now a daily visitor to the exchange table of The Davidsonian. The Spectator is one of the leading daily papers of the large universities of the United States. The coaches of the Varsity rowing crews have already sent letters to those who will compete for places on the team warning them lest they become ineligible by failing in their examinations which are now in progress. Columbia is a strong rival of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton in the inter-collegiate rowing contests which are held each year in June.

University of Virginia—A bill to make the University of Virginia a co-ordinate college is now being considered by the Legislature of Virginia, and it seems that the bill will have a majority in that body. In the meanwhile, the students of the University are making a determined fight against the passage of the bill. They believe that it will destroy, in great measure, the efficiency of the University, that it will alienate the de-votion of many of the alumni and that it will result in great detriment to the cause of higher education in Virginia.

VARSITY QUINT MAKES SUCCESSFUL TRIP
(Concluded from page 1)

goals, and himself scored five. Concerning the game, the Winston-Salem Journal says, in part: “The ‘Davidson spirit’ was in evidence and the fight that is always characteristic of Davidson teams. Their spirit concerning decisions that were against them was magnificent, and no cleaner or finer team has ever played on a local floor. The people of Winston-Salem are always glad to have Davidson men here because of this gentleman-like spirit which is never absent.”

Cash and Kimball were the scoring stars for Winston. The line-up:

Davidson (33) Position Winston (34)
King........... Forward ..... Rector
Childs........ Forward..... Kimball
Hengeveld.... Centre........ Cash
Reese......... Guard........ Speer
Younger...... Guard ..... Bazemore

Substitutions: Wood for King; Douglass for Kimball. Field goals: Cash 7, Kimball 5, Younger 5, Childs 4, Hengeveld 3, Reese 2, Rector 2, King, Bazemore. Foul goals: Reese 3, Cash 3, Bazemore. Referee: Sebring. Timekeepers: Kluttz and Cushing.

LOCAL SCHOOL NEWS.

Miss Mamie Withers, teacher of the Primary department, was sick last week, but has returned to her duties this week. Miss Lilian Houston taught in her place during her illness.

The children have been very busy with their monthly examinations during the past week. Of the various games on the playground, it seems that jumping the rope and shinny are the most popular.

HONOR ROLL.

Tenth Grade—Mamie Johnston.
Ninth Grade—John Barnette.
Eighth Grade—McDowell Richards, Viola Johnston, Eloise Martin.
Seventh Grade—Wilburn Thompson, Sarah Hamilton, Annie Lois Barnette.
Sixth Grade—Martha Hamilton, Max Kahle, Edleman Kahle, Harry Shoemaker.
Fifth Grade—Mildred Hobbs, Frances Johnston.
Fourth Grade—Sophie Richards, Joe McConnell, Thomas Hamilton, Eustace Lingle, Hugh Cashion, Graham Johnston, Richard Grey, Frank Justice.
Third Grade—Howard Arbuckle, Henrie Miller, Robert Thompson, Thomas Lathery, Sara Barnette, Lena Stillwell, Howard Stewart, Rufus Johnston.
Second Grade—Fred Hartsoe, William Hall, Jennille Justice, Riggs McConnell, James Shoemaker.
First Grade—Cynthia Fleming, Murray Fidler, Luther Gibbs, Helen Goodrum, Alex Herndon, Wm. Howard Jetton, Helen Johnston, Kitty Martin, Jack Mooney, Robert D. Mooney, Hiram Sloop, Archie Williams. (The names in the First Grade are not arranged according to standing.)

GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED

We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars and Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty. We appreciate your patronage.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

COME IN, BOYS.

This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds.” Your trade is appreciated.

L. A. ELLIOTT

EAT AT THE STONEWALL

The HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.
—Charlotte, N. C.—
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
Flyless Restaurant
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N.C.
WRIGHT'S HOTEL, - - Raleigh, N. C.
TORRENCE & HELPER
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
Also Auto Service
J. P. SANDERS, President

SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.

SPALDING QUALITY.

No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready. Fountain Pens Stationery. Our Fall and Winter Catalogue shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 N. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA

Jetton Drug Co.
The COMMISSARY

Your prescriptions are compounded with the best.

Give your Shoe Repair Work To
JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING

Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT

Four per cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES

Four per cent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

Headquarters For Davidson Men