The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Annual Fall Campaign Meets With Success
Services Conducted by Mr. Hounshell and Mr. Martin.

With one of the strongest appeals for Foreign Missions ever heard on the Davidson campus, the Fall Campaign was brought
to a close last Sunday evening by Mr. C. G. Hounshell. All throughout the meetings the attendance was fine, the
interest in the work increasing with each service. These meetings were not exactly on the order of an evangelistic campaign,
where one would expect a more open portrayal of spiritual excitement. Mr. Hounshell’s manner of delivery was always of a
quiet, non-emotional, yet impressive type, causing no undue spiritual excitement, but enabling the truths to sink deep into every heart
with more lasting effect.

The campaign opened Friday morning at 10:30 a.m., during the morning chapel period. An hour of worship was spent at
that time. The afternoon hours were taken up in student conferences, held by Mr. Hounshell, Dr. Richards, and Mr. Morton.
Then the evening service followed at 7:15 o'clock. This was the daily routine of the campaign, Mr. Hounshell and his
co-workers being also in charge of the Sunday services.

During the service on Saturday morning, cards bearing the following inscription were passed through the crowd: “It is my purpose,
with the help of God, to pay what it costs to be a sincere follower of Jesus Christ.” Over one
hundred and fifty of these were returned signed by the students, and this number out of a student body of
only four hundred. The effect of having so many men on the campus leading a Christian life cannot be overestimated.
At the evening service, cards were also passed asking such questions as would enable the Y. M. C. A. to
learn more of each man and thus promote more active Christian work here. The response to these was very good
indeed.

Still another interesting and impressive feature of the meetings, introduced by Mr. Hounshell himself, were the afternoon...

Davidson DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 4, 1916.

Shows Up Well In Opening Game of Season
Red and Black Machine Makes Game Fight Against Virginia, Losing By Close Score.

Davidson's first football game of the season was played Saturday, when the little Red and Black machine was defeated by
the University of Virginia by the relatively small score of 14 to 0. The score tells but a small part
of the story. After the first ten minutes of play, the Orange and Blue was unable to make any appreciable
headway before the fight of the Davidson team. Several times the ball was brought within striking distance of Virginia’s goal,
but here the difference in weight told and Davidson’s backs were unable to pierce the Orange and Blue line.

Playing largely defensive football in the first half, the Red and Black warriors...

WHITE, CAPTAIN

“Steve” Walker played through the game with a bad ankle, while Grey and Pharr had to stop on account of
injuries. For the Orange and Blue, Carrington, Gooch, and Ward stood out prominently. Carrington’s punting was of high order and
he also contributed one of the touchdowns. It would be impossible to pick out any one man as the Davidson
star, as each man fought for all that was in him. “Tack” Black, who was saved until the second half
because he had not fully recovered from an injury received early in the season, broke through the line time after
time for repeated gains and at one time carried the ball to Virginia’s 12-yard line. “Sam” Keesler also played a
strong, heady game, and was a leading offensive factor. Flowers, playing his first collegiate game, made a very favorable showing,
and although his first punts were a little short, he soon settled down to steady work. Captain White was a
tower of strength in the line, again...

BLACK, HALF-BACK

No. 4

News and Happenings
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Mrs. F. W. Lingle left Monday for a visit to Raleigh.

Professor and Mrs. Withers have moved into the house next to the Henderson Hotel.

Dr. Grey was recently confined to his home on account of a slight illness, but is now meeting his classes
regularly.

The Civic League of Davidson will begin its activities tomorrow afternoon. The subject of their meeting will be “Home Efficiency,”
and it is looked forward to with much interest by the members. Mrs. J. M. McConnell is the president of
this live organization, and Davidson can look forward to a series of interesting activities, the nature of which will be
made public as soon as this organization...gets back to business.

Mrs. W. F. Hall, of Statesville, the mother of W. F. Hall, Jr. '20, spent the weekend with Mrs. Richards.

The Booklover's Club met Friday night, September 29th, with Mrs. Richards. A very interesting program featured the evening, the topic
being "Tolstoi." Mrs. J. M. Douglas read "The Message of Tolstoi," the chief paper of the evening, and Miss Shaw
read a highly interesting paper entitled "A Sketch of the Life of Tolstoi." A social meeting followed the regular program.

Of the Week in Town

Miss Lott, of Winston-Salem, the sister of H. S. Lott, '19, visited here a few days ago.

A dinner party was given last Friday night by Dr. and Mrs. Richards in honor of the new members of
the faculty and their wives.

Rev. Mr. Erwin, pastor of the local Methodist church, is conducting a meeting near Salisbury. Meetings held at the close
of each evening service. It was the privilege of everyone to remain for these, where a more open service was
held. The students were here given an opportunity to express their personal spiritual needs and workings. Then a few moments
of sentence prayers followed. It is just such meetings as these that draw the students closer together in their personal
relations to furnish a still greater spiritual blessing. Another meeting similar to these was held Sunday afternoon just before the
Student Volunteer movement, which was conducted by Mr. Hounshell himself, their General Traveling Secretary.

The afternoon student conferences were unusually well attended this year. It is at these meetings that the more personal troubles
and needs of the students can be gone over and corrected.

The Davidson squad put up a fight which the Student Body may well be proud of and which will long
be remembered by the university's team. Coach Evans was forced to use his first string men throughout the game. In
fact, the Davidson team made more substitutions. Injuries to prominent players handicapped the Davidson team immensely.

Davidson changed their style of play at the beginning of the second half and started a march up the field,
keeping the ball in Virginia's territory at all times. Virginia's first touchdown was largely the result of an exchange of
punts, which brought the ball close to Davidson's goal line, where it was carried over by Carrington. It was only
in this department of the game that Virginia was at all superior. Gooch’s run of thirty yards, which followed closely
after the first touchdown, was the only long gain made by the Virginians. Both touchdowns were made in the first
few minutes of play, and this may be attributed to the fact that Davidson could not settle down at the
start to the steady work which characterized their playing in the rest of the game.

Again and again checking the Virginian’s advance, "Steve" Walker was a star on offense and defense, making repeated gains and
breaking up many plays at end. "Bob" Walker, playing the other end, was much superior to anything that Virginia could
show, and his tackles were hard and sure.

The line-up was as follows:

Virginia. Position. Davidson.
Hagan........ left end... B. Walker
Ward........ left tackle... Finley
Coleman..... left guard... Grey
Churchman... centre... B. White
McKay...... right guard... Sayad
Blakey... ... right tackle... T. White
Goodwin..... right end... Flowers
J. White... quarterback... Keesler
Carrington... left half... C. Walker
Gooch....... right half... McAlister
Spar......... full back... Laird

Referee: McWhorter, Georgia; Umpire: Smith, Washington and Lee; Head linesman: Leach, Tennessee; Time of quarters: 12 and 10 minutes; Touchdowns:
Carrington and Gooch; Goals from touchdowns: Carrington 2; Substitutions—Virginia: Darwin for Hagan.

CALENDAR OF EVENTS.

Wednesday, Oct. 4th—
Thursday, Oct. 5th—7:15 p.m., Y. M. C. A., Shearer Hall.
Friday, Oct. 6th—7:00 p.m., "Pep" meeting, Shearer Hall. 9:00 p.m., International Polity Club.
Saturday, Oct. 7th—3:00 p.m., Davidson vs. A. & M., Charlotte.
Sunday, Oct. 8th—9:45 a.m., Bible Classes; 4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor; 6:10 p.m., Ministerial Band; 6:40 p.m., Volunteer Band.
Monday, Oct. 9th—8:45 a.m., Literary Societies; 7:00 p.m., Eumenean Freshman Society.
Tuesday, Oct. 10th—
Wednesday, Oct. 11th—

ON TO CHARLOTTE SATURDAY

Another special feature of the campaign was the singing conducted by Mr. H. F. Morton, graduate of the class of
1908, who for several years has been a leader in the mountain mission work in Albemarle Presbytery.

(Continued on page 6)
