The Davidsonian, December 6, 1916

With the Alumni

Among the alumni on the Hill for Senior Speaking were K. A. McDonald, J. M. McBryde, L. G. Edgerton, and M. R. Adams, all of the class of '16; W. M. Winn, '15; C. B. Bailey and J. R. McGregor, '14; S. Hughes, ex-'17, and J. F. Huffstetter, ex-'18.

* * *

The James Sprunt Lectures for the current year at Union Theological Seminary will be given by Charles Alphonso Smith, A.M., Ph.D., LL.D., Poe Professor in English in the University of Virginia, and an alumnus of Davidson. His subject will be "Keynote Studies in Keynote Books." He proposes to take five books from the Old Testament and five from the New and show what they mean to him as wholes. This is the first time a layman has ever been chosen to deliver these lectures, but the choice is one that will commend itself at once to the whole Church, for Dr. Smith is not only an eminent scholar, lecturer, and author, but also an eminent Bible teacher, a ruling elder in the Church, and an evangelical to the core. His work as professor in the Universities of Louisiana, North Carolina, and Virginia and as Roosevelt Professor in the University of Berlin has made him famous on two continents as one of the most delightful and illuminating of living lecturers. He has been also a prolific author, having now some ten volumes to his credit, one, "O. Henry Biography," just from the press. The lectures will be given in March.

THE FETZER DYNASTY.

As Davidson owes much to Coach Fetzer for the success of the past season and to him belongs the greater share of the credit for the great work of the Red and Black machine, below is given a tribute which appeared in an Atlanta paper following the Tech game. The thoughts expressed therein should find a ready second in all Davidson students and alumni.

"From the first shrill pipe of the referee's whistle calling the warriors to the kick-off, to the final, heart-breaking drone of the time-keepers’ double-throated call, the spectators in the stands at the Tech-Davidson game Saturday were asking questions about Bill Fetzer, the crack coach of the 'Little Red and Black Machine.'

"No such form before mid-season, and rarely on Turkey day itself, has ever been manifested as was the work of Davidson Saturday. Up at Davidson, a little college not far out from Charlotte, N. C., the oldest inhabitant and the youngest will tell you that Davidson owes her prestige in football in the past decade in a large degree to the Fetzer dynasty.

"It's the dynasty that never says die.

"Four Fetzers have gone down as great players for the Red and Black in the annals of college history at Davidson—Monk, Bunch, Bill, and Bob are the monosyllabic array. Just before the nineteen-fourteen football season at Davidson, the word went out that the 'Little Red and Black Machine' was on the down-grade.

"The little college had plenty of willing workers, but their coach had left, and where were they to get a good one, when every team in the country at that time was in crying need of a coach who could drill the new brand of ball into a lot of willing, but green rookies. No Fetzer had been in school for some years, but their names were still spoken whenever the Halcyon days were recalled.

"Finally, the idea was born that one of the Fetzers might help them out of a gloomy looking season.

"Bob Fetzer was secured, and Bob brought them back with a vengeance. They sprung several mid-season surprises and walloped everything around their own weight on the schedule.

"But Bob's business interests made it imperative that he should go to Montgomery. For all stock at Davidson took a decided slump when the word went around that Bob was leaving. Then things took a rapid rise. Weren't there three more Fetzer brothers? Weren't they all masters of the art of kicking, carrying, or stopping the old leather apple?

"Hadn't Monk played great ball at Davidson, then three years at Cornell? Weren't Bill and Bunch both masters at the game?

"So Bill Fetzer was secured to come back and guide his Alma Mater, the college that every year turns out a 'Little Red and Black Machine.'

"Bill Fetzer assumed the head of the coaching staff for nineteen-fifteen. When time came for Bill to leave, Davidson wouldn't let him. So Bill Fetzer took the bunch that he had already loved and cussed and coaxed one season, and the result was that Virginia was scared out of wits early in the season; North Carolina A. & M., whose prestige in the Tar-heel State was a tradition, was humbled a week ago; and Atlantans had an opportunity to see for themselves Saturday why the Davidson men son.

"'Suppose Bill won't come back next year?' a trembling Freshman at Davidson asked early this season.

"'Bumph,' was the reply, 'Boy, don't you know that we have...'""got two more of them who have never even been used yet!" Here are the sixteen books which ex-Mayor Gaynor believes have had the largest effect on his life. They are mentioned in the order in which the Mayor thinks he has been affected by them. The list does not include certain works on what Mayor Gaynor calls the “philosophy of history” and from which he has also derived great satisfaction. The Mayor says, however, that if he had taken more time some other books might have been included in the list.

The Bible.
Euclid.
Shakespeare.
Hume's History of England (especially the notes.)
Homer.
Milton.
Cervantes.
Rabelais.
Gil Blas.
Franklin’s Autobiography and Letters.
Plutarch’s Lives.
The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini.
Gibbon’s Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
Adam Smith’s Wealth of Nations.
Bacon's Essays.
De Lome’s British Constitution.

—Fx.

Among the students going home for Thanksgiving were F. Hengeveld, L. A. Chambliss, L. B. McKeithen, R. D. Hall, F. P. Wood, D. M. Chalmers, W. S. Overton, J. R. Morton, and W. J. Pharr.

OFFICIAL BULLETIN.

A schoolmistress asked her class to explain the word “bachelor,” and was very much amused when a little girl answered, “A bachelor is a very happy man.” “Where did you learn that?” asked the mistress. “Father told me,” the little girl replied.—Tit-Bits.

The birth rate of the foolish.

It is an axiom in the vernacular of swindlers that a ready victim for their operations is “born every minute.” It would seem that this understates the birth rate of the credulous. Friday, the thirteenth day of October, was an unlucky day for fifteen hundred such who on that morning read in the Chicago dailies of the disappearance from that town of a firm of brokers dealing in beautifully-engraved stock certificates. Their well-furnished offices were vacant, and a good deal of nice-looking paper, printed as certificates of stock in concerns with pretty names, was left behind them. The daily papers report that “they left an imposing list of creditors behind them and a financial tangle, involving their dealings with clients said to number 1,500, including the usual ratio of ministers, women, small shopkeepers, clerks, and the run of innocents who dabble in issues not approved by the experts.” “The usual ratio of ministers, women, small shopkeepers, and clerks!” We do not like that arrangement of the groups affected. We have often been tempted to add a financial column to The Advocate, not for our own profit, but as a protection to those who have small savings and who so readily become victims of sharks. We may never get around to do it, but, meantime, let ministers, women, small shopkeepers, and clerks take good counsel before they invest their money with strangers not well certified.

—The Advance.

Willis—What kind of a time did you have at Bump’s last evening?
Gillis—Very unintelligible. I couldn't understand anything they said to their baby or anything the phonograph played or anything that my wife whispered to me behind their backs.—Judge.

DELICATE.

The Farmer—Say, don't you see that sign “Private! No Fishing Allowed?”
The Fisherman—I never read anything marked “Private.”—Brooklyn Eagle.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the confidence placed in us. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

REAL CONTENTMENT

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

DRINK Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres.
H.W. Thompson, Csh.
S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
C. A. Potts, Asst. Csh.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
prompt delivery a Specialty
Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN
WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office