The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Senior Oratoricals Enjoyable Occasion
Many Interesting Features, Large Number of Visitors.

The class of 1917 has transcribed its Senior Oratorical exercises on the pages of history—and, on the whole, right well
has she done it. Speeches, concerts, receptions, girls—all of these exist now only in memory. The regular routine of college
duties has been resumed, to be terminated soon by the Christmas holidays.

Along with the variety of subjects of the speeches went the variety of ways in which they were treated—two facts
which combined to break the monotony of the forty-seven speeches which were delivered. The high praise accorded Woodrow Wilson by
a goodly number of the speakers shows the political affiliation of a majority of the class. The European war and
the political and economic changes which must inevitably follow it were discussed from various viewpoints. The speeches, almost to a
unit, dealt with the live questions of the day, while those finding their origin in some belief or incident of
antiquity were more neglected by the class of 1917 than by some of the classes that have preceded it. The
names of the successful competitors who will speak at Commencement will be announced by the Faculty at a later date.

The usual large number of visitors were on the Hill for the occasion, including alumni and friends and relatives of
the students. In addition to the speaking, other attractions were the Soph-Varsity basketball game Saturday afternoon, the Orchestra and Glee
Club concert Saturday night, followed by the Faculty and Fraternity receptions.

CONCERT

The concert given last Saturday night by the Orchestra and Glee Club was a climax to the series of entertainments
during Senior Speaking. Soon after the concert began the auditorium was filled almost to overflowing with an attentive and appreciative
audience. Everyone seemed to enter into the spirit of the occasion, and the excellent music, both instrumental and vocal, was
met with a ready response from the eager listeners. The music of the Orchestra, with a lively touch mingled now
and then with its soft, beautiful harmony, was very pleasing to the ear. The Glee Club, also, was applauded much
and encored several times, its most beautiful selection being “Ireland Must Be Heaven, For My Mother Came From There.” The
Quartet brought down the house with the song “Go To Sleep,” and the three encores which followed. Fowle, as usual,
received loud applause as he finished his tenor solo, “I Love You," and the encore, “Mighty Like a Rose.” Another
feature solo was “Traumerei,” and an encore rendered on the violin by Baker. The entire concert was one filled with
enjoyment and the spirit of brightness.

FACULTY RECEPTION.

After the Orchestra and Glee Club concert Saturday night the Faculty gave a reception to the Seniors and their (Continued
on page 2)

Red and Black Closes Season

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 6, 1916.

with Defeat of Clemson Tigers
Davidson Plays High Class Ball and Defeats South Carolinians with Ease. The Game in Detail.

Davidson more than made up for the tie scores of the two previous years with Clemson by handing the Tigers
an overwhelming defeat in the Thanksgiving game staged at Charlotte. It was Davidson’s from the time that “Steve” Walker received
the opening kick-off and ran 55 yards through the whole Clemson team, until the last whistle blew; with Davidson in
the possession of the ball well in Clemson's territory. Five touchdowns and three goals from touchdown was the sum total
score, and this was probably lessened a good deal by the frequent and heavy penalties inflicted upon the Davidson team.
This game was a fitting climax to the many wonderful games put up by the Red and Black team this
season. The Davidson backs marched through the heavy Clemson line and around the Clemson ends for long gains. The Davidson
line was almost impregnable, opening up large holes on offensive and holding steadily and surely on defense. The stars for
Davidson were many, in fact the whole team played at top form and put up an exhibition that would be
aCredit to any college, whatever size. The detailed account will give some idea of the game they put up and
how badly they outclassed the Clemson team in every particular. The sad part of Thursday’s contest from a Davidson standpoint
is that some of the mainstays of the wonderful 1916 team probably finished their Davidson football career with this game.
Ex-Captain “Steve” Walker will be ineligible next year, having received a “D” and three stars. Captain Ben White, “Sam” Keesler,
“Billy” Sayad, and Theron White will be lost by graduation, although all have at least one more year of college
football. The loss of these men will be a great one to Davidson. All of these men finished up their
careers in great style Thursday. Captain White put up a wonderful offensive and defensive game at center. “Steve” Walker put
up without doubt the prettiest exhibition of his four years of brilliant service. “Sam” Keesler played his usual steady and
heady game at quarter. “Billy” Sayad shared honors with Captain White in the line and proved himself a master of
the game in every particular, and of his opponents. Theron White played one of his best games in the line
also. “Jack” Black and “Buck” Burns were stellar factors in Thursday's game. Black scored three of the team’s touchdowns and
pulled off a gain whenever called upon. “Buck” rammed the line with his usual success, and his fierce tackling was
a feature. “Bob” Walker and George King played great games at end. Both were there when it came to handling
passes and sewing up tackles. “Bob” held up the punting end in fine style and outdistanced his opponents on every
exchange of punts. “Bill” Lawson’s passing was one of the outstanding features of the game and was largely instrumental in
scoring two touchdowns. For Clemson, Banks was the outstanding star. He bore the brunt of the defensive and offensive work
of his team.

THE GAME IN DETAIL:

FIRST QUARTER.

Davidson elected to receive, defending north goal. C. Walker received the ball on his own 5-yard line and returned the
ball by brilliant running 35 yards. Ball on Clemson's 40-yard line. Black made 2. Black gained, but fumbled and Banks
recovered. Major punted 20 yards out of bounds. Burns made 1 through center, but Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding.
R. Walker punted over goal line for touchback. Wirtzell punted 25 yards out of bounds. Burns made 5, then followed
with 4 more, and Black on tackle play made 5 and first down. C. Walker made 2, Clemson penalized 5,
off-side. Burns made 1.

No. 13

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Dr. T. W. Lingle was the speaker of the occasion at Winthrop Thanksgiving.

Mrs. A. W. McAlister and daughter, from Greensboro, spent the weekend at Mrs. Worth’s. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle go to
Raleigh Tuesday to attend the annual meeting of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association. While in Raleigh they will
take part in the reception given to the association and Hon. W. H. Taft in the handsome new building of
the Raleigh Woman's Club. Miss Ruth Paterson, of Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N.C., spent the weekend at her uncle's,
Dr. T. W. Lingle. Mrs. W. J. Roddy, of Rock Hill, S. C., spent the weekend with Mrs. Vinson. Prof.
I. I. Douglas spent the weekend at Chester, S. C., on business.

Dr. Sentelle’s house is nearing completion, and his sister, with her children, will join him in the new home after
the holidays. Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Miller, of Sherrill’s Ford, N. C., parents of J. W. and R. C. Miller,
were among Saturday's visitors.

“ROB” WALKER, CAPTAIN-ELECT.

“Bob” has been elected captain of the 1917 team. He has played three years at end and his playing has
always been steady and heady. He has always given us his best. May he lead us to another victorious season
in 1917.

(Continued on page 6)
