The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. II. Junior Speaking Proves Big Success Queens College Glee Club Here Monday DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1916. Social and Personal Items of the Town No. 20. Basket Ball Season Comes to a Close Speeches, Gym Exhibit, Concert | A Fine Entertainment Promised By | Past Week Was One of Interest | Statesville Y. M. C. A. and Univer- and Receptions Are Enjoyed. REPS ANNOUNCED. EUMENEAN SOCIETY L. H. Eikel J. K. Hobson W. Y. Sayad PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY S. T. Henderson W. H. Neal J. C. Paisley One of the most successful Junior Speaking exercises in the history of the college came to its close last Saturday evening. Many friends from various sections came in on every train Friday and Saturday, to hear their sons and friends deliver their orations. About forty-eight men of the Junior class delivered orations on live and up-to-date subjects. On account of the present war conditions, the majority of the speeches were of a political and scientific nature. There were a few exceptions, however, to this rule, speeches that deserve special notice. Among these might be mentioned, L. H. Eikel, W. H. Neal, W. Y. Sayad, and S. R. Keesler. Eikel delivered a masterful speech on "The True American," which proved to be William Jennings Bryan. Neal spoke very interestingly on "The Man of the Hour," who was easily recognized as Woodrow Wilson. Sayad explained very forcibly the conditions of Islam in the great war. Keesler, in his speech "All For One and One For All," very ably presented the need and the claims of Pan-Americanism. GYM EXHIBIT. Saturday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock the gymnasium team presented the following program to an attentive audience: Tumbling, horse, parallel bars, elephant, horizontal bar, pyramids. Throughout the performance, the house was kept laughing by Russell Minter as Charley Chaplin, "Madame" Townsend, and the diminutive clown, Courtney McConnell. The work of the team on the parallel bars and in tumbling was the best. The whole team turned dazzling flyers that greatly pleased the audience. Shane and Young did good work in this, while Porter "starred" on the springboard. On the parallel bars, Charley Chaplin was again the feature. He performed many difficult feats and at the same time kept up his fun. ORCHESTRA CONCERT. On Saturday night the Davidson Orchestra and Glee Club rendered a very entertaining and somewhat amusing concert. Nothing but praise has been heard on every side for the charming manner in which the boys carried off the evening, rendering generous encores to the hearty applause of the enthusiastic audience. Owing to the fact that time was limited, some of the program had to be omitted, but no regret was felt on this score since the vacancy was more than made up by the exquisite singing of Miss Rosa Hill, of Greenville, S. C., and the ridiculous (Continued on page 4) Management of Annual. The editorial staff of Quips and Cranks has made arrangements with the Queens College Choral Club for a concert at Davidson on next Monday night, March 6, at 8 o'clock. The club this year consists of thirty-one members and has been trained under the personal direction of Mrs. Coral Baker, head of the music department at Queens. This organization has met with splendid success wherever it has appeared by reason of excellent training and ability. The club is larger this year than last and the program is probably the best ever put on by Queens College. This entertainment is given under the auspices of the management of the Annual. PLAN FOR MILITARY TRAINING AT DAVIDSON A plan is being discussed to introduce at Davidson a department of Military Science. The plan does not include the placing of any portion of the student body under military rule, nor the introducing of a military feature to college, but is designed as a branch of the Junior Applied Mathematics course. It would be artillery training only, and would include the study of trajectories, fortifications, etc., in reality a branch of military engineering. If successful, the course will make it possible for students to become members of the Officer’s Reserve Corps, in position to command in event of a declaration of war. The present status in this country places non-college men in a better position to absorb a knowledge of military tactics and practices than college men, and this scheme is designed to place the college men, who are better qualified to lead, in the position to do so. It is not a militarist policy, therefore, but rather one of preparedness. The present war has shown that a large percentage of the loss of life has been due to misdirected commands, and collegiate instruction in the tactics would go far to prevent such a catastrophe. The course, if adopted, would be under the control of the government, probably in charge of a commissioned officer, and would necessarily be thorough. It would be an elective ticket, with regular credit given, and would be a valuable asset to the mathematics department. NEW CLUB IS ORGANIZED. There was recently organized on the campus a club known as the Order of St. Cecilia, which is a successor to the old German club. Present plans include a dance to be given in Charlotte after commencement. The officers elected are: E. P. Nisbet, president; A. S. Tompkins, Jr., vice-president; W. L. Law, Jr., manager and C. K. Schwarz, secretary-treasurer.The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity hall is being completely remodeled and refurnished. When finished, it will be one of the most attractive halls on the Hill. 

The committee appointed by the Presbyterian laymen to do something in the interest of the town boys is preparing a baseball ground for them on college property, in the rear of the residences of Professors Fulton and Lingle. All play on this ground will be under the supervision of some person appointed by the committee. Certain times will be reserved for the boys under twelve years of age. Work on the field is being done under the supervision of Dr. Arbuckle.

Dr. W. L. Lingle ('92), of Union Theological Seminary, and President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, will speak twice next Sunday in the Presbyterian church. The topic of his evening address is “How We Got Our English Bible.”

Mr. “Pat” Johnson, who for a number of years has represented the American Tobacco Company in Asiatic Turkey, with headquarters at Samsoun, on the Black Sea, is visiting relatives at Davidson.

STATESVILLE GAME

Davidson lost her last game of the Statesville series on the Statesville court last Tuesday night by the score of 36 to 28. The locals were badly handicapped by the absence of Hengeveld, although Younger played a good game at center. He was lacking only in inches, and this disadvantage gave Statesville the jump on Davidson, which told in their favor. Reese and Wood starred for Davidson, Reese especially playing a fine floor game.

The line-up:
Davidson, Position, Statesville.
King, Forward, Guy
Wood, Forward, Newman
Younger, Center, Etheridge
Reese, Guard, Overcash
Walker, Guard, S. Brady

CAROLINA GAME

The local basketball season was closed Friday night when Davidson met the University of North Carolina on the Statesville court for their second game. The game was won by Carolina, 31 to 21. It was a fast, scrappy game from start to finish. Both teams played excellent ball, and the lead fluctuated from one to the other with monotonous regularity. 

Mrs. Baker, of Savannah, Ga., mother of E. H. Baker ('17), was a guest of Dr. and Mrs. Martin during Junior Speaking. Miss Mildred Johnson, a student at Converse College, is at the home of her mother, recuperating from recent illness.

For Davidson, Reese and Walker starred. Reese displayed his usual unerring aim in shooting foul goals, and Walker, guarding the doughty Mehl Long, held him to three goals, each of the horseshoe variety, and played him completely to a standstill all the way through. He put up the best defensive game of the season and was commended highly for his close guarding. Hengeveld was back in his old position at center, but his back still bothered him some, and he was unable to score his usual quota of points. However, he added three to the locals’ total. For Carolina, Johnson and Massey starred.

Davidson, Position, Carolina.
King, Forward, Long
Wood, Forward, Massey
Hengeveld, Center, 
Reese (c), Guard, Tennant
Walker, Guard, Davis

CLASS FOOTBALL TEAMS HAVE “FEEDS”

The Senior class football team held their “feed” on the night of the 21st in Edgerton’s room. In addition to the team, the coaches of the other class teams were present, and all indulged in an hour of enjoyment.

The Junior team met in Zeb McMillan’s room on the evening of Thursday, the 17th, with about twenty-five present. After the “eats” were finished, the time was spent in singing college songs and in giving class yells.

About twenty-five fellows took part in consuming the Sophomore feast and in giving yells and songs of all varieties. This was held in Therrell’s room on the night of the 18th.

Those present at the Freshman “feed” on the 24th enjoyed a bounteous supply of good things to eat, and other merry-making features.

Mrs. S. P. Paisley was the hostess at an enjoyable tea on Monday afternoon in honor of her guest, Miss Croom, of Wilmington.

Miss Mary Jordan, of the Wildwood School at Montreat, was a guest of Mrs. W. L. Lingle for the weekend.

Mrs. Nisbet, of Charlotte, was a guest of Mrs. Currie last Saturday.

Mrs. W. K. Dunlap, of Charlotte, spent Monday, the 21st, with her son.

Miss Mary Jackson, of Gastonia, is the guest of her brother, Mr. F. L. Jackson, on Concord Street.

Miss Carrie Hood is visiting Miss Annie Payne, in Raleigh.

Mr. and Mrs. W. I. Henderson were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Martin on Friday.

Mrs. J. H. Wood, of Asheville, mother of A. C. Wood ('18), and Mrs. L. White, of Statesville, are guests of Mrs. A. Currie for a few days.

The wedding of J. M. Smith ('13) and Miss Davis, of Marion, S. C., will take place in June.

Mr. Frank Carter, proprietor of the local garage, is rapidly recovering from a serious accident to his eyes, which occurred recently while he was working on a car. The wound was a very painful one, disabling him for some days, and very nearly robbing him of his eyesight.