The DAVIDSONIAN, November 29, 1916

A TEST IN SPELLING.

The following is a list of words most commonly misspelled, which was collected by C. Alphonso Smith, Professor of English, University of Virginia. Recently, Professor Fulton used this list on his Freshman English class. There were 58 words, and 137 papers were handed in. The figure following each word shows the number of times that particular word was misspelled by 137 first-year men: all right, 86; although, 9; chief, 10; decision, 29; describe, 9; different, 2; disappear, 32; disappoint, 35; dying, 18; embarrass, 81; exaggerate, 66; finally, 20; goddess, 25; grammar, 19; independent, 25; infinite, 17; insistent, 46; intellectual, 33; its, 59; laboratory, 41; Latin, 2; led, 35; literary, 16; lose, 46; noticeable, 40; occasionally, 53; occurred, 82; pamphlet, 30; perform, 15; planned, 31; possess, 44; prejudice, 50; principal, 11; principle, 12; privilege, 70; profession, 18; promised, 7; pursue, 49; receive, 13; recommend, 35; rhythm, 106; ridiculous, 46; sentence, 3; separate, 41; shepherd, 44; siege, 53; stationery, 60; surprise, 38; symmetry, 68; too, 22; thoroughly, 39; though, 5; thought, 1; through, 7; tyranny, 53; until, 10; villain, 69; writer, 1.

The above results show that the words most often misspelled were: rhythm, 106; all right, 86; occurred, 82; embarrass, 81; privilege, 70; villain, 69; symmetry, 68. No word was correctly spelled by everybody. Nobody correctly spelled every word; 2 missed 2; 6 missed 3; 1 missed 4; 7 missed 5; 5 missed 6; 9 missed 7; 6 missed 8; 6 missed 9; 9 missed 10. Among those bringing up the rear, 1 missed 29; 3 missed 30; 2 missed 31; 2 missed 33; 1 missed 36; 1 missed 38.

In addition to the above list of words, the following proper names were given, and missed as many times as is designated by the numbers following the respective words: Burns's (possessive), 119; Edgar Allan Poe (the middle name being the strategic word), 104; Macaulay, 113; Thackeray, 116.

The above lists of words should be adopted and used by every public school teacher as a part of the “preparedness” in spelling of prospective college students. They are also good lists for anyone to look over and remember. If you do not believe they are, just try to spell them without study.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

Several books of more than passing interest have been added to the Library recently. Those interested in literary subjects will find “How to Read” (Kerfoot), and “Poe’s Helen” (Ticknor), a glimpse into the life of the weird poet; “English Poets and the National Ideal” (Selincourt) shows what Shakespeare, Milton, Wordsworth, and later poets have done for the cause of English nationality; “Kitchener's Mob” (Hall) is a vivid account of the origin of the large English army now in the field. Two interesting novels are Wells’s “Mr. Britling Sees It Thru,” an English war novel, and Meredith Nicholson’s “Proof of the Pudding.” Other new books are: “Social Life in England” (Jackson); “The Athenian Empire” (Cox), as well as two books presented by the Polity Club: “The Restoration of Europe” (Fried) and “Nationalism, War and Society” (Krehbiel).

The committee of the Faculty working on the question of a readjustment of the Commencement program will report shortly.

A. C. Wood, '18, went to New York Saturday night to visit his brother.

HARVARD GLEE CLUB TO VISIT CHARLOTTE

Under the auspices of the Grand Opera Music Festival Association, at Charlotte, the Harvard Glee, Guitar and Mandolin Clubs, the Male Quartet, and heads of all the departments of Harvard’s college life will appear in Charlotte at the Academy of Music in concert the night of December 22nd. Following the concert, a big dance will be held.be given either at the Selwyn Hotel or the Manufacturers’ Club, at which time members of society of Charlotte and the surrounding sections will be present. The entire delegation of Harvard students will number fifty-five men. The personnel will include not only members of the different musical organizations, but the captains of the various athletic teams and student heads of all of the college activities will be present.

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery... Drink at our Sanitary Fountain... We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

DAVIDSON REPRESENTED IN CROSS-COUNTRY RUN
The annual intercollegiate cross-country run for the State championship was held at A. & M. College, in Raleigh, Saturday afternoon, November 25th. Davidson was represented by Brand and W. C. Worth. Carolina entered four men and A. & M. and Wake Forest entered.

The course was almost four and one-half miles long. Upchurch, of Carolina, won first place in 25 minutes. Scott, of A. & M., came second, and Nimms, of Carolina, third. Brand and Worth took sixth and seventh places, respectively. Brand finished within ten yards of the first man. Carolina won first place, A. & M. second, and Davidson third, on points. This is the first year Davidson has been represented in this annual event, and in view of the fact that cross-country runs are not practiced here, Davidson's men did exceedingly well.

We Excel in SERVICE
You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you. Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

BOOK CLUB MEETING
The Book Club met last Friday, November 29th, at 4 o'clock, with Miss Hattie Thompson. Many interesting roll-calls. The meeting was then turned to a paper on “Short Stories of Adventure and Action.” In illustrating her subject, King,” by Kipling, and “Ich Liebe Dich,” by C. W. Doyle. Mrs. Currie, as was announced, will have charge of the subject for the next meeting.

LOCAL PEACE CONTEST NEXT MONDAY NIGHT
Davidson's annual Peace Contest will be held next Monday night, December 4th, in Shearer Hall. A large number will deliver orations this year, and the contest will no doubt be close and hard fought, as the best speakers in college will compete. The winner of the local contest will represent Davidson in a State contest next Spring, when representatives of the several colleges of the State will compete for a first prize of $75 and a second prize of $50.

JUST RECEIVED
EXTENSIVE LINE
King Quality Shoes
New Models

LET US FIT YOU

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL BUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines
We cater to special trips for students
Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Frank P. Morton, Manager

Finish every day and be done with it. You have done what you could. Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in: forget them as soon as you can. Tomorrow is a new day: begin it well and serenely and with too high a spirit to be cumbered with your old nonsense. This day is all that is good and fair. It is too dear with its hopes and aspirations to waste a moment upon the yesterday.—Emerson.

Between Charlotte and Statesville
SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN
L. S. Patterson, College Representative