The DAVIDSONIAN, November 22, 1916

With the Alumni

The following item from the Charlotte Observer will be of interest to the friends of Billy Shaw Howell, ex-'18: “Members
of the representative basketball team of the Young Men’s Christian Association elected Billy Shaw Howell captain of the team for
the coming season, at their meeting held last night at the Association.”

* * *

Announcement is made of the marriage last week of Rev. John L. Fairly, ’09, now of Fayetteville, N. C., to
Miss Arleene Gilmer.

LOCAL PUBLIC SCHOOL HONOR ROLL

The Honor Roll for Davidson High School during the first two months of the present session was as follows:

Tenth Grade, first month, Ella Fisher.
Ninth grade, first month, McDowell Richards and Viola Johnston.
Eighth grade, first month, Sarah Hamilton; second month, Wilburn Thompson.
Seventh grade, first month, Martha Hamilton; second month, Martha Hamilton.
Sixth grade, second month, Mildred Hobbs.
Fifth grade, first month, Sophie Richards, Joe McConnell and Eustis Lingle.
Fourth grade, first month, Howard Arbuckle, Robert Thompson, Sarah Barnett and Thomas Lothery.
Third grade, second month, Mary Honulter, Fred Hartsoe, Velma Hartsoe, William Hall, David Edwards, Louise Thompson, Virginia Shumaker, Riggs McConnell
and James Shumaker.
Second grade, first month, Mary Andrews, Mary Grace Brown, Murray Fidler, William Howard Jetton; second month, Mary Andrews, Mary Grace
Brown, Murray Fidler, John Hagar, William Howard Jetton and Frank Sigmon.
First grade, Adelle Arbuckle, Catherine Armour, Virginia Brown, Dlette Cashion, James Caldwell, John D. McConnell, and Lelia Stewart.

At a meeting of the local Polity Club on Tuesday night, November 19th, Dr. Fulton gave a very interesting review
of the book “Toward International Government,” by Hobson. Conditions for an essay contest were also announced. A prize of $35
will be given by the Association for International Conciliation to the member of any club in the United States who
makes the best review of the book, “War, Nationalism and Society.” In addition, a prize of $5 will be given
to the member of the local club who writes the best review.

A COMPOSITION ON HENS.

A little Kansas boy wrote this composition on hens: “Hens is curious animals. They don’t have no nose, nor no
teeth, nor no ears. The outside of hens is generally put into pillows and feather dusters. The inside of a
hen is sometimes filled up with marbles and shirt buttons and such. A hen is very much smaller than a
good many other animals, but they will dig up more tomato plants than anything that ain't a hen. Hens is
very useful to lay eggs for plum pudding. I like plum pudding. Skinny Bates ate so much plum pudding once
that it set him into the colic. Hens has got two wings and can fly when they are scared. I
cut my Uncle William’s hen’s neck off with a hatchet and it scared her to death. Hens sometimes make very
fine spring chickens.”—Successful Farming.

L. H. Patterson and C. E. Rankin spent Sunday with the latter’s parents in Gibsonville, N. C.

CLEAN YOUNG MEN IN POLITICS

Some men make the holding of public office their sole business. From it they derive their entire support. Provided they
administer their trust fearlessly and honestly there is nothing about this to be condemned. But it is a good sign
when young men of wealth and social position enter politics, not for what they can get out of it, but
for the opportunity it affords to serve the State. If more young men of independent means with the best education
entered public life in this spirit it would greatly uplift our political standards.

Mr. Ogden Mills, of New York City, a young man of this type, in addressing the members of the Laymen's
Efficiency League of the Episcopal Church told the men of the church that it was their duty to enter politics
and fight corrupt persons and influences. This duty includes more than primary registration, or voting, or mere consent to the
governing party. “You must see,” said Mr. Mills, “that good principles dominate and good men are chosen for the organization
as well as for the offices. Then, from this application of good citizenship to party problems, we may hope to
see grow a new standard of success in life, in which mere commercial prosperity or great wealth will not be
the sole criterion, but where he will be judged as most successful who has contributed most to the great brotherhood
of the nation of which you and I are a part.” If more young men entered politics in this spirit
it would mean the end of the compact and strongly entrenched Tammany Hall in New York, and of corrupt politics
everywhere.

One great element of strength of the public service in the British Empire has been the way in which men
of wealth and leisure have devoted themselves to the service of their country. In the United States we have made
the great mistake of misinterpreting the motives of...those who would enter the political arena in the same spirit, doubtless because
we have been so accustomed to the self-seeking type of politician. —Ex.

TROUBLES THAT NEVER CAME

Oh, I worry over this thing and I worry over that,
But I notice when the atmosphere has cleared
That the bad luck I had looked for didn’t come and knock me flat,
And I didn’t have the trouble that I feared.

Oh, I like to start the morning with an apprehensive sigh,
For I find a bit of worry to my taste.
But I cannot help a-thinking as the years go speeding by,
That an awful lot of worry goes to waste. —Pittsburg Post.

Old Gentleman—“Do you mean to say that your teachers never thrash you?”
Little Boy—“Never. We have moral suasion at our school.”
“What’s that?”
“Oh, we get kept in, and stood up in corners, and locked out, and locked in, and made to write
one word a thousand times, and scowled at, and jawed at, and that’s all.” —Ex.

Teacher—“Man is a human machine.”
Little Willie (excitedly)—“Yes’m; my father’s a thrashing machine.” —The Christian Herald.

“I saw your wife and daughter the other day, but they didn’t see me.”
“So they said.” —Boston Transcript.

WHAT THE PRINTER LIKES

There is a man the printer loves, and he is wondrous wise;
whenever he writes the printer man, he dotteth all his i’s.
And when he’s dotted all of them with carefulness and ease,
he punctuates each paragraph and crosses all his t’s.
Upon one side alone he writes and never rolls his leaves,
and from the man of ink a smile the mark “insert” receives.
And when a question he doth ask—taught wisely he hath been—
he doth the goodly penny stamp, for postage back, put in.
He gives the place from which he writes—his address the printer needs—
and plainly writes his honored name so he that runneth reads.
He writes, revises, reads, corrects, and rewrites all he can;
and keeps one copy safe and sends one to the printer man.
And thus by taking little pains, a trifling care and cost,
assures himself his manuscript will not be burned nor lost.
So let all those who long to write take pattern by this man,
with jet-black ink and paper white do just the best they can;
and then the printer man shall know and bless them as his friends
all through life’s journey as they go until that journey ends. —Ex.

ON THE PUNKIN

When the frost is on the punkin and the fodder’s in the shock,
And you hear the kyouck and gobble of the struttin’ turkey cock,
And the clackin’ of the guineas and the cluckin’ of the hens,
And the rooster’s hallylooer as he tiptoes on the fence;
Oh, it’s then’s the times a feller is a-feelin’ at his best,
With the risin’ sun to greet him from a night of peaceful rest,
As he leaves the house, bare-headed and goes out to feed the stock,
When the frost is on the punkin and the fodder’s in the shock.
—James Whitcomb Riley.

The material for the next issue of the Magazine will go to the printers December 1st, and the magazines will
be distributed by the 15th. The editor hopes to secure a better cover for this one.

R. W. Cousar suffered a fractured wrist when he fell last Friday from one of the bars of the open
air gym.

216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak”
styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists : Mooresville, N.C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited
John L. Deagles, Pres., G. W. Thompson, Cashier
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier

Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing
PRINTING for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Statesville, N.C.
Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office
