The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 29, 1916. No. 12

Red and Black Defeats Wofford Eleven Easily On Muddy Field, Davidson Comes Out Winner, 34 to 0.

Playing on a muddy field and with the wind blowing fiercely, Davidson ploughed through the Wofford Methodists for a comparatively
easy victory last Thursday afternoon at Spartanburg, S. C. The final score was 34 to 0. From the start, the
outcome was never in doubt, and the Wofford team was kept almost continually on the defensive. While both teams were
seemingly evenly matched as to weight, the superior training and speed of the Red and Black “machine” had a telling
effect. Coach Fetzer made several substitutions during the game and this reserve strength showed no lessening of the team’s speed
and drive. As usual, “Billy” Sayad played a spectacular game in the line, while “Jack” Black was the principal ground
gainer, although all the men responded with substantial gains when called upon. Davidson made 14 first downs during the play
and gained approximately 200 yards. The first quarter was scoreless, yet Davidson made five first downs during the period. The
half ended with Davidson 21 points to the good, however, with two touchdowns credited to Black and one to Flowers,
Grey kicking goal each time. In the third quarter, Singleton added another six points to Davidson's total, while Mackorell made
the other touchdown in the final quarter, Grey kicking goal. The touchdowns were made for the most part on straight
line plunges.

The following was the line-up:

Wofford. Position. Davidson.
Burnett......... RE..... Mackorell
Kenney......... RT..... T. White
Pearson......... RG....... Sayad
Felder........... C...... B. White
DeShields....... LG....... Grey
Kinard.......... LT... ..... Shaw
Glenn.......... LE... .... King
Osborne........ QB....... Keesler
Boyle........... LH........ Black
Moore.......... RH...... Flowers
Vaughn......... FB...... Burns

Referee: Moses, Dartmouth; Umpire: Brown, Carolina; Headlinesman: Perrin.

FRESHMEN LECTURE GIVEN BY DR. J. W. McCONNELL

On Friday, the 29th, Dr. J. W. McConnell gave one of the regular semi-monthly lectures to the Freshman class. His
subject, “How to Take Proper Care of the Body,” proved to be an interesting and profitable one to the first-year
men. In the course of the lecture, Dr. McConnell stated that there were more cases of sickness among the Freshmen
than among the other three classes combined, due to carelessness in the care of their health. He explained how a
great many diseases were caused by bad teeth and also showed how these could be prevented. He then took up
a discussion of some minor diseases and explained methods of prevention. As a preventative of sickness and a general help
to the body, the present gymnasium drill which is being given to the new men was commended.

THE RED AND BLACK VARSITY SQUAD.

Front row, left to right: Flowers, Spann, Paisley, Burns, R. Walker, Elmore, B. White, Grey, Sayad.
Middle row, left to right: C. Walker, Pharr, Watkins, Knight, Robson, Black, Finley, Elliott, Mackorell, Shaw.
Back row, left to right: King, T. White, Keesler, Lawson, Singleton, W. B. Crouch, Long, Fetzer (Coach), McAlister, Laird, G.
S. Crouch, Reese (Mgr.)

Football Season Ends With Game Tomorrow

Davidson Meets Clemson in Charlotte For Final Contest.

Davidson faces tomorrow her final game of the season, and one of her hardest, when she goes up against the
strong Clemson eleven. Early in the season, Clemson was handicapped by injuries and unfavorable playing conditions, but these have been
overcome, and the team has made remarkable improvement during November. They are coming to Charlotte confident of victory. However, Coach
Fetzer’s warriors will have something to say before the game is decided, and the contest will be a hard-fought one
throughout. Davidson’s games with Clemson in the past have always been of the thrilling kind, and indications point that this
year’s game will be no exception. Since the two teams have been meeting on the gridiron, Clemson has won three
contests, Davidson two, while three have been tied. The scores for the eight games are as follows:

1900—Clemson 65; Davidson, 0.
1906—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1907—Clemson 6; Davidson, 10.
1908—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 13.
1909—Clemson, 17; Davidson, 5.
1913—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 3.
1914—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1915—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 6.

It is hoped that the entire Student Body will be at Wearn Field tomorrow, to back their team in this
last game of a memorable season. This will be the final game for several of the Red and Black stars,
including the two Whites, Sayad, “Steve” Walker, and Laird, and the students should see these men in action once more.
In order to accommodate the students, a special train will be run.to Charlotte at 9:30 a.m., and leaving Charlotte on
the return tomorrow night at 12 o'clock. The round trip will be 80 cents. The regular admission to the game
will be one dollar, but as usual, Davidson students may purchase tickets on the Hill for 50 cents, in 16
Chambers. The Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert at Queens College tomorrow night, following which there will be
a reception, to which all Davidson students are cordially invited. It is hoped that Davidson will move to Charlotte tomorrow
“with bells on.”

Program Completed For Senior Speaking
Interesting Event Will Commence Friday Afternoon.

All arrangements have been completed for Senior Speaking, which event begins Friday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. The indications point to
exercises of an interesting and entertaining character. On Friday, classes will be held as usual. Seniors who speak in the
afternoon will be excused after 1 o'clock. On Saturday, there will be no classes, but chapel will be held as
usual.

PROGRAM
Friday, 2:30 p.m.—Speaking.
Friday, 8:00 p.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, 8:00 a.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, 2:30 p.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, 4:30 p.m.—Fresh-Soph basketball game.
Saturday, 8:00 p.m.—Orchestra and Glee Club Concert.
Saturday, 9:30 p.m.—Fraternity Receptions.

The Senior class, forty-nine in number, will give to the public on Friday and Saturday of this week a fair
sample of their oratorical ability. Such subjects as “Bacteria,” “Worse Than War,” “Prohibition by State Enactment,” “The Idle Rich,” “Martin
Luther,” and “Women and Politics,” give a splendid indication of the variety of subjects that will be discussed. Aside from
the variety of subjects, there will be the variety of treatment of subjects. On the whole, the exercises promise to
be very interesting and profitable.

The Orchestra and Glee Club have been practicing regularly for their entertainment. Their performance will be a climax to the
entertainments which they have been giving this Fall. At a recent meeting of the Faculty, judges for Junior and Senior
Speaking were appointed. For Senior Speaking: Drs. Sentelle, J. M. Douglas, J. W. McConnell, and Professors Fulton and Withers will
act as judges. For Junior Speaking: Drs. J. M. McConnell, Arbuckle, Lingle, and Professors Reed and Wood will serve.

Dr. Lingle preached at the First Church of Salisbury, Sunday.

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Mrs. M. E. Manning was visited last week by her son, of South Carolina.

Walter Lee Patterson, nephew of Dr. T. W. Lingle, is under the treatment of Dr. J. W. McConnell, because of
a fractured bone. Mr. Patterson is from Rowan County and is a student at Nacoochee Institute, Ga.

Miss Lois Smith was at home for the weekend.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle gave an address to the teachers of Charlotte Friday night on the Gary System of Schools.
Mrs. Lingle has made a thorough study of this and other systems.

Miss Bonnie Shelton and Misses Winifred and Elizabeth Potts, of Queens College, were up for the weekend.

Mr. L. B. Vreeland, a lawyer of Charlotte, was a guest of Professor and Mrs. Currie last Friday. He was
in town on legal business.

The Book Lovers’ Club met at the home of Miss Hattie Thompson Friday afternoon. Mrs. Arbuckle read the chief paper
on stories of adventure.

Dr. Richard has been appointed by the Synod on the committee to raise a large sum of money for the
Presbyterian institutions in North Carolina. This is to be a regular committee to see to the finances of the different
schools from time to time.

Dr. Martin spoke before the Y. M. C. A. at Sumter last Sunday.

Professor and Mrs. Currie and Mrs. Martin attended a reception by Dr. and Mrs. White at Statesville Saturday night.

Miss Flossie Houston has returned home from the Normal College at Greensboro.

Miss Naomi Tithian is to be a guest of Mrs. A. Currie during Senior Speaking.

Miss Laura Wood, of Charlottesville, Va., is to spend the weekend with Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

MR. F. B. MOORE
Mr. Edgar B. Moore, of Charlotte, father of F. B. Moore, '19, died Saturday afternoon at the Charlotte Sanatorium, following
a stroke of apoplexy. The attack came upon Mr. Moore suddenly, he having attended to his business affairs and had
been apparently in the best of health and spirits during the day. He had been a resident of Charlotte for
nine years, and was a prominent livestock fancier and hotel man of this section. The student body deeply sympathizes with
his son in the loss of his father.
