The DAVIDSONIAN, February 16, 1916

TOWN ITEMS.

Mrs. A. Currie gave a very enjoyable Valentine party Friday in honor of Miss Fulton and Miss Baskerville.

* * *

Mrs. W. G. Vardell, who has been with her daughter, Mrs. Martin, for the past few months, left Friday morning
for Fayetteville.

* * *

Mr. and Mrs. Mountcastle and daughter, of Knoxville, spent a few hours on the Hill Tuesday with their two sons,
now in college.

* * *

The regular monthly meeting of the Civic League was held last Tuesday. Interesting reports from the committees were given and
much interest was displayed concerning proposed work on the streets.

* * *

The College Glee Club and Orchestra gave an entertainment Friday night for the benefit of the mill people in their
chapel.

* * *

Mrs. J. M. McConnell entertained the Book Lovers’ Club Friday afternoon. The feature of the occasion was an address by
Dr. Harding on the Greek poetess Sappho. A light luncheon was served.

Mrs. Walter Sloan spent the weekend at Winston with her daughter, Mrs. Bohannon. It is expected that Mrs. Bohannon will
return with her mother for a short visit.

* * *

Mrs. Arbuckle entertained a number of friends Tuesday in honor of Miss Fulton, who is the guest of her brother,
Dr. M. G. Fulton. A luncheon was served during the morning.

* * *

Mrs. C. R. Harding is at home again after a short visit to Charlotte.

* * *

Miss Annie Jones spent the weekend with relatives in Rock Hill.

* * *

Dr. and Mrs. C. A. Monroe, who have been visiting their daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas, have returned to their
home.

* * *

Miss Effie McCray, of Laurinburg, spent a day here with Mrs. J. M. Worth during the week.

* * *

Mrs. Lola Johnson has had as her guest her cousin, Mrs. Rosebro.

* * *

Mrs. H. White, of High Point, was the guest of Mrs. T. W. Lingle last Wednesday evening.

* * *

Mr. Fred Sherrill, of Statesville, N. C., was a visitor in town last week.

* * *

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Knox are spending a few weeks in the vicinity of St. Petersburg, Fla.

* * *

President Martin and Rev. J. C. Shive have spent some time in Wilmington in the interest of the college.

* * *

The Women’s Missionary Society will hold a meeting in the Civic League Hall Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock.

* * *

Mrs. Richards entertained informally Tuesday night in honor of Mrs. Fulton's guest, Miss Fulton, of Charlottesville, Va.

FINALS IN DEBATING (Concluded from page 1)

is more democratic than that of the United States.” L. A. Chambliss will accompany this team as alternate. The date
for this debate has not been definitely decided as yet.

FRESH ARE CHAMPIONS (Concluded from page 1)

this phase of the game, they could not follow up their advantage. Neisler and Sparrow were the stars for the
Seniors, Neisler being especially good in backing up the line. Pickens, Nimocks, and Johnson excelled for the Fresh.

FRESH-SOPH GAME.

The Fresh and Sophs tied in a slow football game Monday evening. The Sophs outplayed the Fresh throughout the whole
game, keeping the ball in their territory most of the time. The gaining of both teams was spasmodic, and neither
was able to advance at the critical moment. The first quarter ended with the ball in the Soph’s possession in
the middle of the field. In the second quarter, the Sophs had their first chance to score. By blocking a
punt and Finley’s recovery, they had the ball on the Fresh 10-yard line. The Fresh tightened up and the Sophs
were unable to gain. The third quarter ended with the ball on the Fresh 30-yard line. In the fourth quarter,
the Sophs seemed to have found a little of their old-time “pep,” and rushed theBall to the Fresh 10-yard line.
The Fresh again tightened up here and held. On the third down, Johnson intercepted a forward pass, returning 10 yards.
Stars for the Sophs were: Shaw and Worth, and for the Fresh: Monteith and Johnson.

VOLUNTEERS ATTEND
(Concluded from page V)

In the afternoon, the following officers for the coming year were elected: President, P. B. Price, Davidson College; Vice-President, Miss
Myrtle Fuller, Louisburg; Secretary-Treasurer, D. E. Eagle, University of North Carolina; Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Alma L. Bowden, Elon College.

A delightful dinner was served in the Normal College dining hall by the Y.W.C.A. in honor of the delegates, which
was followed by enthusiastic “step-singing” and “yells” in front of the building. The meeting Saturday night was thrown open to
all the Normal girls, and the subject of the addresses of the evening was “Life Choice Problems.”

After a short devotional meeting Sunday morning, the delegates attended the various churches of Greensboro. In the afternoon, the volunteers
attended the Laymen’s Convention at West Market Street Methodist Church and heard with great pleasure the addresses by Col. F.
W. Halford, of New York City, and Mr. W. T. Ellis, of Swarthmore, Pa. Col. F. W. Halford spoke on
“Leaving Your Mark on the World,” and Mr. W. T. Ellis on “How the War, the School Master, is Leading
the World Back to the Place of Beginnings.” Col. F. W. Halford delivered the closing address of the conference, which
was followed by a farewell message to the Volunteers from Dr. John A. Snell, of Soochow, China.

The conference, and especially the kindness and generosity of the Normal College faculty and student body and the people of
Greensboro, who so delightfully entertained the delegates in their homes. There were sixty-seven registered delegates representing twelve colleges as follows:
Louisburg, Statesville Female College, Meredith, U.N.C., Salisbury, Trinity, Elon, Davidson, State Normal, Wake Forest, Flora McDonald, Greensboro College for Women.

A letter from Harry Helper, who is now in the army in Texas, reports an order for the removal of
his troop to Panama this spring.

GOODRICH TENNIS BALLS GUARANTEED

We have a Complete Line of Stationery, Cigars, and Toilet Articles. Prescriptions a Specialty. We appreciate your patronage.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, Inc.
The Rexall Store

COME IN, BOYS.
This is the place to get Good Apples, Candy, Peanuts, Bananas, Etc. Special attention given to “Feeds.” Your trade is
appreciated.

L. A. ELLIOTT

EAT AT EL STONEWALL

The HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N.C.
—Charlotte, N.C.—
HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N.C.
Flyless Restaurant
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N.C.
WRIGHT’S HOTEL, - Raleigh, N.C.
TORRENCE & HELPER
HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.
Also Auto Service

SODA CIGARS TOBACCO &c.
J. P. SANDERS, President

REAL SPORT DEMANDS SPALDING QUALITY.
No fellow with the spirit of real sport in him will put up with inferior implements. True sport calls for
the most trusted outfit for the game. SPALDING QUALITY has proven itself in the stress of the game out-of-doors and
indoors, field or “gym.” The goods that make fall and winter delightful are now ready.

Fountain Pens Stationery
Our Fall and Winter Catalogue shows pictures and prices of everything for winter pastimes. Write for a copy.

A. G. Spalding & Bros.
74 S. BROAD STREET
ATLANTA, GA

Your prescriptions are compounded with the best.

The COMMISSARY

AMERICAN TRUST CO.
(DAVIDSON BRANCH)

Give your Shoe Repair Work to
JOHNSON & MEEKS
Davidson College
Representing SHU-FIXERY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Hotel Central
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four percent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four percent Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

Headquarters For Davidson Men
