Literary Societies Hold First Meetings Prospects Are Bright for Year of Successful Work.

The two literary societies held their first meetings Saturday night, September 16th, and the prospects for a successful year’s work are bright. In the Philanthropic society, the officers for the first term are: S. T. Henderson, president; W. C. Cumming, vice-president; R. D. Hall, secretary; R. H. Ratchford, first critic; C. F. Monroe, second critic; W. T. Dunlap, first supervisor; W. C. Neel, second supervisor. Three upper-classmen, twenty-two Freshmen, and two old members who have been out of college were received into membership.

In the Eumenean society, L. H. Eikel is president; J. R. Woods, vice-president; E. A. Solomon, secretary; T. J. Mitchell, reviewer. In this society, the Freshmen, instead of being received into the main society, join the Freshman society, which meets on Monday night of each week. After a few months, the officers, who are the same in both branches, nominate for membership in the regular society those Freshmen whose work shows that they are worthy of joining. The twofold purpose in organizing this Freshman society is to limit the membership to those men who are really in earnest and who will be a credit to the society, and enable the Freshmen to do better work in that they will not be embarrassed by the presence of the upper-classmen. At the meeting Saturday night, four upper-classmen were received, and Monday night eighteen Freshmen joined the branch society.

Those joining the Philanthropic society were: T. R. Alexander, Misenheimer, H. H. Menzies, and H. S. Lott, upper-classmen; J. T. Maddrey and C. C. Williamson, old members returning; and from the new men: Boney, Caldwell, Calhoun, R. M. Calhoun, L. G. Carriker, Chalmers, Davenport, Dawkins, Foscue, Tremaine, W. T. Hall, H. C. Hamilton, Kerr, Lacy, Leyburn, D. L. McAlister, I. W. Roberts, Smith, Spence, Spratt, and Thomas.

In the Eumenean society, the upper-classmen were: Flynn, Carlyle, Burns, and Hollingsworth. The members of the Freshman society are: R. R. Craig, McClerkin, Shields, Penick, Moore, McCaskill, Withers, McCutcheon, Pope, Smith, Crawford, Harris, Liston, Burgen, Love, Bird, Richards, and J. E. Richards.

DR. McCONNELL HERE FOR A FEW DAYS

Dr. Jno. W. McConnell is here on three days leave from service in the field hospital at Camp Glenn. After arranging the biological courses, Lieutenant McConnell will leave with his brigade for the border, where he will be stationed at Fort Bliss.

THE “PUTITOFFS.”

My friend, have you heard of the town of Yawn,
On the banks of the river Slow,
Where blooms the Waitawhile flower fair,
Where the Sometimeorother scents the air,
And the soft Goeasys grow?

It lies in the valley of What's the use,
In the province of Let it slide,
That tired feeling is native there—
It’s the name of the listless I don’t care,
Where the Putitoffs abide.

The DAVIDSONIAN, September 20, 1916

HAS EVOLUTION COLLAPSED?
By Rev. A. E. Eagleson.

The Biblical World, a magazine edited by Shailer Mathews, of Chicago University, has a symposium of the views of thirteen scientists in its February number, in answer to the following question, addressed to each one of them, viz.: “Does modern science still believe in evolution?” Six of the scientists are professors in the University of Chicago, the other seven are scattered around the country, and unfortunately Princeton is credited with one of them. All of these men express themselves in positive terms, that evolution is now an accepted fact among all scientists. But let me here show that these scientists are very unscientific scientists.

First. They all chime in with the same “spiel”: That scientists accept fully the theory of evolution. Now, among so many, one would have thought that some one of them would have qualified the kind of evolution he believed in. Yet not one of the thirteen made any qualification whatever.

Second. They all agree the scientists are more divided than at any former time, as to the manner or method by which this evolution has been effected.

Third. Is it scientific to conclude that where the bones of existing species differ from the fossil bones of some species that lived millions of years ago, that therefore these ancient species have evolved themselves into the new existing species? Would not a specific man want the proof of this fact before he accepted this change, as having been made through evolution? To conclude that these were the bones of the same species, which had undergone a change of anatomy, but had not changed the species is sheer assumption. This is not science.

Fourth. How is the public to know whether these professors believe in evolution through natural selection or “descent,” or by some blind, unreasoning, inherent, potential law within the particles of matter of which the body is composed, or under the superintending guidance of a Divine hand, or from the influence of environment, or something else?

Fifth. Would a scientific man, knowing as all these professors ought to have known, the wide range covered by the term “evolution,” have left his true position undetermined? Is the public safe in accepting the “dictum” of a set of men who are no more precise in expressing themselves than these professors are?

Some of these professors express themselves as incensed, that certain preachers say, “that evolution has collapsed.” Well, if there is nothing more substantial to hold it up than the science of these scientists, what is there to keep it from collapsing?

Sixth. Is it scientificTo hold that evolution is an established fact until there is some undoubted evidence showing the manner in which this evolution has taken place? It is mere assumption to hold that fossil bones which have laid in the ground for millions of years belong to the same species that are now in existence when these bones differ radically in their formation. Such evidence would not go in any court. That the four-toed bones, supposed to belong to the horse species of millions of years ago, have evolved themselves either with or without Divine help, these professors do not say how, into the one-toed horse of the present day, is a fancy which ought not to be received as a proven fact, especially so when it is relied on to discredit the Scripture account of the creation of man. Those scientists who favor evolution seem to depend more upon the fossil bones of the horse species which are collected in greater numbers than of other species to prove the doctrine of evolution. But no one of them would want to be hung on the evidence which they produce to prove that the present horse has evolved from this ancient species of the horse kind, whose bones differ in conformation from the present-day horse bones. Yet they would be willing to rely on it to discredit the Genesis account of man's creation. The theological professor who will supersede Genesis by a theory of evolution, based on such evidence, is capable of producing a phase of intellect of a lighter cast than the imagination. Is “evolution” the word these professors want to use here? Let some common man come to the aid of these scientists, and suggest a word that would be more suitable.

I have just read Prof. William A. Locy’s work, of Northwestern University, “Biology and Its Makers,” and although it gives an interesting sketch of all the important scientists who have had any connection with the making of biology, I do not recall that any two of them agree. Could it be certain that any problem in Euclid was proven until at least a majority of mathematicians agreed that the solution was right? Is it any more rational to believe that “evolution” is proven until its supporters agree as to its “how?” Prof. H. W. Conn, of Wesleyan University, recently published “Evolution of Today,” which he concludes as follows, viz.: “At present, then, while it is well to admit with the scientists that ‘organic evolution’ is probably true, and that it ‘may or may not’ include man, it is also evident that the complete explanation of the theory has not been reached. Above all, the investigations have not brought scientists much nearer the real significance of life itself, which, like all other first principles, becomes the more inexplicable, the more it is studied.” Notice, that he only assumes that “organic evolution” is “probably true.” A common pleas judge, with the evidence he presents, would not grant that a probability even was established. Now, what is the public to judge about evolution, from the opinion of these thirteen professors, six of whom are in the Chicago University? — United Presbyterian.

BE THE FELLOW YOUR MOTHER THINKS YOU ARE.

While walking down a crowded downtown street the other day, I heard a little urchin to his comrade turn and say: “Say, Jimmy, let me tell youse, I’d be happy as a clam If I only was the feller dat me mudder thinks I am.” “Gee, Jim, she t'inks dat I’m a wonder, and she knows her little lad Could never mix with nothing that was ugly, mean or bad. Lots er times I sits and t’inks how nice ‘twould be—gee whiz— If a feller was the feller that his mother t'inks he is.” My friends, be yours a life of toil or undiluted joy, You can learn a lesson from this small unlettered boy, Don’t aim to be an earthly saint, with your eyes fixed on a star; Just try to be the feller that your mother thinks you are. Ex.

At a meeting of the student body Thursday morning a resolution was introduced by the student council to the effect that the playing of any musical instrument in the dormitories after 8:30 p.m., except Saturday and Sunday nights, would be forbidden. This resolution was passed upon favorably by the vote of the student body.

REAL CONTENTMENT is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina You are cordially invited to inspect our premises Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. S. Goodrum & Co. Mooresville, N. C. Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY Prompt delivery a Specialty Gilbert & Patterson Agents Statesville, N. C.

GENTLEMEN WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK Give Us a Trial Rutledge Norton Next Door to Post Office

End of Friendship. She—“How did they ever come to marry?” He—“Oh, it’s the same old story. They started out to be good friends, you know, and later on changed their minds.”—Pall Mall Gazette.