he DAVIDSONIAN, October 24, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, October 27: Resolved, That suffrage should be restricted by an educational qualification.

Eumenean — Affirmative: Brand, Humphrey, Hollandsworth. Negative: Burgess, Sullivan, McGirt. Declamations: Byrd, Harrell.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Grey and Pharr. Negative: Castle and Sample. Extemporaneous: Spence and T. C. Stone.

At the Phi Society meeting on last Saturday night the question debated was: “Resolved, That intercollegiate athletics should be suspended during the war.” The affirmative side of the question was upheld by C. Howell, while D. R. Freeman and W. C. Smith presented the negative. Both sides presented some good points. The judges decided unanimously in favor of the affirmative.

Following the regular debate was an extemporaneous debate on the query: “Resolved, That Freshmen should be required to wear green caps." W. P. Davenport upheld the affirmative and H. C. Hamilton the negative. E. G. Lilly then gave a very interesting and instructive oration on “Trench Warfare.”

Owing to the service conducted by the Y. M. C. A., led by Dr. Wright, there were no meetings of the societies last Monday night.

In spite of an audience that did not agree with their position, the affirmative won in the Eumenean Society, last Saturday night. The query was: Resolved, That intercollegiate athletics should be discontinued during the war. The affirmative was represented by Potts and Carwile, the negative by Frierson and Turner. The affirmative took the stand that in these grave times intercollegiate athletics were too frivolous a thing to occupy the minds of college students, and pointed to the large sums of money spent on the games. Their picture of our duty in the present crisis somewhat overawed the negative, who relied for their main contention on the physical benefit of athletics in training men for the war. They also stressed the moral benefit in that it would afford relaxation to a people whose mind now is so centered on the course and the issue of the war.

After the debate came orations by Orgain and E. A. Woods, who told us about “Japan and the United States” and “Methods Against Submarines.” The critic made a pretty good speech.

The following second term officers were elected: President, Bellingrath; Vice-President, Potts; Secretary, McGirt; Reviewer, Thomas; Marshal to fill vacancy, Frierson.

Below is given the schedule for October 29 of the Eumenean Freshman Society: Affirmative: A. McF. Mitchell, M. B. Heizer, R. L. Rogers. Negative: E. L. Mahood, B. W. Romefelt, J. E. Saunders. Declamations: S. A. Burgess, C. D. Ewing.

EMORY FLINN LEADER IN ENDEAVOR MEETING

The Christian Endeavor Society was led by E. Flynn in its meeting last Sunday night. The subject, “Putting Religion Into Politics,” was thoroughly discussed and many illustrations were given to show that religion is very essential in politics. The greatest men of the past were men of religious character who carried religion into politics. It was also emphasized that our noblest men of today are religious men who take an active part in Christian duties. The attendance was very good and the growth of the society shows great advancement.

The flag looks good floating with the autumn breeze.

CAMPUSISMS.

W. F. Hall, '20, spent Sunday at his home in Statesville.

Ewing (looking at Detective Burns’ picture in the Saturday Post) — Does he have an agency here? No! Why? Ewing — Well, I didn't know! There is most every other kind of agency here.

R. Drum, '21, is confined in the infirmary with an attack of appendicitis.

A large number of students went to Mooresville Saturday night to see on the screen “The Fall of a Nation.” They report that the return hike was very delightful. Wonder what Mooresville thought when they did the column drill through Main street?e. Captain Lea—What is the first thing done when the squad is formed?
Carwile—Right dress!

Barnum and Bailey's circus, “Ben Hur,” Queens College, Camp Greene, the V. M. I. To name the city of Charlotte! All of these are drawing the fellows to the “Queen City.”

I expect to find the solution of problems before me as President in the proportion that I am faithful in the study of the Word of God. -Woodrow Wilson.

Where Will a Little Bit Go a Long Way? $1.25 Invested in a subscription to The Davidsonian. If you don't believe it, try it. The proof of the pudding is the eating thereof. Let us serve you a tempting portion every week throughout the college year. But how are we to know that you want us to continue sending the Davidsonian unless you send us $1.25 now.

MRS. J. M. WHAREY RECEIVES SURPRISE VISIT

Mrs. J. M. Wharey was given a surprise visit on Friday evening by eleven young men of Mooresville and Concord in honor of her seventy-fifth birthday. They had been members of a Junior Band organized by her during her husband’s pastorate. A generous box of candy and a gold-mounted fountain pen were the gifts brought for old-time’s sake. Mrs. Wharey is the mother of Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. Chas. L. Grey.

Professor Reed (in Greek class)—Mr. Newsome, what is a postpositive conjunction?
Newsome—Doctor, I was just wondering about that myself.

The President of the Senior Class requests that all Seniors hand in their subjects during the next few days.

“Don't you want to hire a feller to keep the tramps away, Mrs. Stubs?” asked the small boy.
“How can a little fellow like you keep the tramps away?” demanded Mrs. Stubs.
“Easy enough,” replied the boy. “I can eat up all the pie and cake and things what’s left over.” —Ex.

CIVIC LEAGUE NOTES

The Civic League has contributed twenty-five dollars to the Graded School with which to purchase needed window shades. When we consider what is being done by the women of Davidson for the boys at the front in addition to frequent donations for local improvement, we begin to realize wonderfully their great service to the town and nation.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily. First Class Vaudeville. YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED.

One Second-Hand Fox Typewriter in good condition For Sale. Price $35. 18% Discount for Cash. See W. C. CUMMING 14 RUMPLE.

A.G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.
BASKETBALL
In the Spalding line you have equipment that is right officially, high grade in workmanship and durable in quality. Spalding’s No. M BASKETBALL is guaranteed perfect in every detail.

You have not gotten your Army Shoes. Thames & Maddrey, Agents for the Walk-Over Brand. Quick Delivery. Samples at the Commissary.

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. Rutledge Norton, Next door to Post Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING. Phone 69-J.

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men.

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches and Alarm Clocks.

W. M. Torrence: The Jeweler.

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company have a new line of Trimmed Hats---Velours. Prices $4.50 to $7.00. Also a Fine Selection of Shirt Waists.