The DAVIDSONIAN
September 1, 1917

DR. MARTIN WRITES LETTER TO STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)

"19, graduates of Oglethorpe Training Camp, but discharged on account of physical deficiencies, will assist, and are well prepared to
do so. Uniforms will be decided on after college opens. They will not be expensive, and will be such as
will be useful after college is over. The college will work with its usual high efficiency, and we hope for
a full student body of men of serious purpose. I cordially suggest to all Davidson men in these last few
days before college opens that they encourage young men of serious purpose and proper preparation to enroll in their old
college.

Cordially yours,
Wm. J. Martin, President.

WHAT A FATHER OWES HIS CHILDREN
By Rev. Walter L. Lingle, D.D.

“A father owes his children a Christian education. Practically all fathers recognize that they owe their children an education. But
there are still multitudes of professing Christian men who do not seem to realize that they owe their children a
Christian education. It is passing strange that fathers and mothers will bring up their children with the greatest care in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord until they are 16 or 17 years of age, and then send them
off to a school or college without the slightest inquiry into the religious influences of that school or college. As
a result, many of the boys and girls from our Christian homes are being sent to schools and colleges where
their minds and morals are poisoned for life. I have seen one splendid young fellow after another go from Christian
homes to such colleges and have seen them return utterly indifferent to religion. When you think of sending your child
to college your first question ought to be: ‘What will be the moral and spiritual influences of that college on
my child?’ Fathers, you owe your children a Christian education.

NEW WATER TANK NOW BEING USED

The new 80,000-gallon tank is being used to supply the water for the college. The two tanks on the roof
of the south wing of Chambers have been taken down and the roof repaired. This is only one of the
improvements that have been made since commencement. The flag now floats at the top of the new one hundred and
twenty-foot steel pole. At the base, in the concrete foundation, which extends some two feet above the ground, is a
plate bearing the inscription, “Presented by the class of 1917.”

COLLEGE DIRECTORY

It was thought best by the management to postpone the publishing of the College Directory until after the opening. If
you have any old phonograph records that you are tired of, bring them with you and give them to the
Y. M. C. A. Social Center. The phonograph has been sent off for repairs, but we hope to have it
back and going fine when school opens.

Read the Catalog. Study the Catalog. Select your course NOW. Study pages 67 and 68 for requirements for degrees, 101-105
for expenses, and 94-95 for athletic regulations. Reserve your room NOW.

FORTY-FOUR TOWN MEN HAVE VOLUNTEERED

The following is a complete list of the Davidson men and those from near here who have joined some branch
of service voluntarily: Fred C. Bone, second Oglethorpe Camp; Everet L. Booe, second Oglethorpe Camp; Thornwell Smith, U. S. Naval
Reserve; Sam Johnston, Clyde Fisher, Lewis Potts, Conrad J. Shelton, Houston G. Brown, Herbert W. Thompson, Henry M. Cathey, Boyd
L. Moore, Rome G. Christie, Eugene Donaldson, Lester Pratt, Robert D. Alexander, “F” 1st N. C. F. A., Greenville, S.
C.; 2nd Lieut. John E. Johnston, F. A. U. S. R.; 2nd Lieut. James M. Rumple, C. A. C. U.
S. R.; and Lieut. Ernest R. Campbell, C. A. C. U. S. A.; Capt. Jno. W. MacConnell, M. O. R.
C.; Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, Y. M. C. A. Work, French Army; John Sigmon, U. S. Army; Harvey Helper, U.
S. Army; Harry Johnston, U. S. Army; Sam Pool, U. S. Navy; Douglas Brown, Lewis Johnston, Walker Porter, Lamont Field,
Field Hospital No. 1, N. C. N. G.; Mack Parker, U. S. Army; David Worth, second Oglethorpe Camp; Chas. A.
Webster, Garland V. Hager, Cloyd Brown, Clarence Brown, Battery “B,” 1st N.C. F. A.; Mason Torrence, Field Artillery, New Berne;
Fred Johnston, Robert H. Harding, Henry S. Caldwell, Hospital Unit, Charlotte, N. C.; Dewey Templeton, Floyd Pless, George Christie, Cleve
Eads, Tom Daniels, Co. “B,” Engineers, Charlotte; Terry Moore, Iredell Blues, Statesville, N.C.

DR. J. W. McCONNELL GOES TO COLUMBIA

Dr. J. W. McConnell has received his orders to report to the base hospital at Camp Jackson, Columbia, S. C.
Dr. McConnell will be an eye, ear, nose, and throat surgeon. His orders to proceed to France the first of
September were revoked. He leaves for Columbia, S. C., on Saturday, the 1st of September. Dr. McConnell will hold the
rank of a captain.

MANY CHANGES MADE IN PHI CONSTITUTION

The constitution of the Phi Society has been revised by a committee, and many important changes have been made. The
Junior Society is to consist of Freshmen and allnew men. The vice-president is to preside over this society. The Senior
society meets only on Saturday nights due to the fact that classes are to be held on Monday morning. Get
a copy of the constitution and find the other changes made.

DAVIDSON MAN WRITES A MILITARY MANUAL

A. L. James, ex-'06, first lieutenant in the 15th Cavalry, U. S. Army, has written a book entitled, “Selective Service
Manual.” Mr. James graduated from West Point in 1910. The book is not only intended for prospective soldiers, but also
for schools. The splendid setting-up exercises contained therein are beneficial to civilians as well as to soldiers.

THE SCHEDULE

We regret very much the fact that we were unable to publish the schedule of recitations in this issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN. Several alterations were made necessary by Dr. Lingle’s departure for France, and we were unable to secure the
desired schedule at the necessary time.

ALUMNI NOTES

Rev. Robert F. Kirkpatrick, D.D., has moved from Memphis, Tenn., to 104 Gordon Street, Atlanta, Ga. Dr. Kirkpatrick has accepted
the pastorate of the West End Church in Atlanta.

Rev. W. B. Chandler, of Live Oak, has accepted a call from the church at Dillon, S. C., and expects
to be in the work there at an early day. Mr. Chandler has done a splendid work at Live Oak,
and the best wishes of the church and the whole Presbytery go with him to his new field.

The following item was delayed: Rev. K. A. McLeod, '86, died in Fayetteville, N. C., on April 30, 1917. He
leaves a wife and four children. He was born in Richmond County, N. C., and graduated from Union Seminary in
'89. He served three pastorates during his ministry, one in Montgomery County, one in Moore County, and one in Cumberland
County.

Rev. Dr. J. M. Rose, '68, who was for many years pastor at Laurinburg, N. C., died in the Hamlet
Hospital, at Hamlet, N. C., on August 19. He was one of Davidson’s oldest and most beloved alumni.

Z. N. Holler, '07, Professor of Mathematics in A. and M. College, of Oklahoma, has been on a touring trip
and will visit some fifteen or more colleges and universities before returning to his work.

R. H. Bennett, '16, has joined the Marines and is now in training at Fort Royal, Paris Island, South Carolina.

A. H. Patterson, ex-'18, of Florida, will re-enter college this fall as a Junior in the class of '19.

Andrew Brown, '17, and A. T. Cashion, '17, expect to return this year for M.A. degrees.

W. A. Johnson, '16, M.A., '17, has begun his work teaching in Mount Berry School, Mount Berry, Ga.

P. B. Price, '17, will study medicine at the University of Virginia.

The following clipping tells of the death of an alumnus who has served one church for twenty-eight years: Rev. M.
C. Britt, '72, for twenty-eight years pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Sparta, Ga., died suddenly on the evening of
August 13, while on a visit to his niece at Concord, Ga. He was buried by the side of his
wife in the cemetery at Sparta, among the people whom he had so long and so faithfully served, and who
will treasure his memory as a blessed heritage. Mr. Britt was sixty-five years of age. When sixteen years old he
entered Davidson College, from which he graduated and then spent another four years at Columbia Seminary. His first pastorate was
the Third Church, in Atlanta (now the Moore Memorial). Then he was pastor in Quitman, Ga., for three years, after
this for a short time in Cuthbert. From Cuthbert he went to Fairview, S. C., where he was pastor five
years, coming from there to Sparta.

Read the Catalog. Study the Catalog. Select your course NOW. Study pages 67 and 68 for requirements for degrees, 101-105
for expenses, and 94-95 for athletic regulations. Reserve your room NOW.

The concrete walks of Davidson have been extended during the summer. They now extend as far down as the home
of Mrs. Potts, on South Main Street.

JOB PRINTING

Those desiring work of a high character, coupled with prompt execution and delivery, should get in touch with us. It
is our policy to give particular attention to the typographical arrangement of each job, thereby guaranteeing satisfaction. Let us quote
prices.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
O. J. THIES, Jr., Local Representative

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Southern Railway System
Reaches QUICKLY and CONVENIENTLY, With Frequent and Splendidly Equipped Trains All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST
Pullman Sleeping Cars and Dining Car Service On ALL THROUGH TRAINS
Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points
Special Attention Given To Athletic Trips
For detailed information call on or write S. E. BURGESS, Division Passenger Agent, Charlotte, N. C.
THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTH
