The Davidsonian, April 18, 1917

Literary Societies SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, April 21st: “Resolved, That the number of representatives to Congress should be reduced.”

Eumenean—Affirmative: Guy, Hamilton, Harrell, and Keesler. Negative: Johnson, Harris, King, and Love.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Query, Henderson, Misenheimer, Menzies, Tremain. Negative: Fowle, Howell, Karriker, Corriher, Caldwell.

Monday morning, April 23rd:

Eumenean—Declamations: Harwood, Hollandsworth, Huneycutt, and Liston. Orations: Chambliss, Cousar, J. R. Woods, and Crouch.

Philanthropic—Declamations: R. W. Robinson, Morton, Stogner, Sample, and Wilson. Orations: Murray, W. C. Neel, Thames, and H. T. Lilly.

The regular exercises of the Eumenean Society were suspended Saturday night, April 14th, and the Junior-Senior debate preliminaries took their
place. On Monday morning, April 16, three orations were rendered. Keesler gave “The Wastefulness of the South;” A. R. Craig,
“Why a Literary Society Diploma Should Count as a Credit for Graduation;” and F. M. Mitchell, “The End of the
World.” Four declamations were given. E. A. Woods gave “A Satire on the Classics;” R. R. Craig, “The Foundations of
the Nation;” Carwyle, “Ideals and Reals;” Byrd, “Oratory.” The meeting as a whole was very good, although two or three
of the speakers showed signs of lack of preparation.

In the Philanthropic Society on last Saturday night, the regular order of meeting was suspended and the preliminaries of the
Junior-Senior debate were held in its stead. On Monday morning the sole declamation was given by Caldwell, on “The Future
of America.” The two orations were as follows: Howell, on “Luther Burbank,” and R. H. Stone on “Advertising for Literary
Purposes.”

WINNERS OF “REPS” IN JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE

The preliminaries of the Junior-Senior debate were held last Saturday night instead of the regular meeting of society. J. R.
Woods, Cousar, and Craig were chosen to represent the Eumenean Society in the finals, which will be held April 28th.
Cousar, J. R. Woods, and Craig upheld the affirmative of the question: “Resolved, That a Pan-American Union shall take the
place of the Monroe Doctrine.” Eikel and Thomas upheld the negative.

Woods opened the debate with a short explanation of the Monroe Doctrine and pointed out that the Pan-American Union would
be a more adequate protection for South America and would do away with the ill feeling that has arisen between
ourselves and them. Craig, following on the affirmative, argued that we had no right to enforce the Monroe Doctrine, as
it was against international law. Cousar closed the debate for the affirmative by showing that the Monroe Doctrine was inherently
wrong in principle and that the position of the United States gave no place to the smaller republics.

Eikel, first for the negative, declared that other causes and not the Monroe Doctrine were the cause of friction between
the United States and South America, and that the Monroe Doctrine was misconstrued by some of the South American republics.
Thomas closed the argument for the negative by pointing out that the Monroe Doctrine was fundamentally a policy of American
national self-protection.

The preliminaries of the Junior-Senior debate took the place of the regular class last Saturday in the Phi. The query
for the debate was the same as in the Eu. The debaters for the affirmative were McDonald and Fowle. Those
on the negative were Cumming and Webber. The affirmative contended that the Monroe Doctrine had outgrown its usefulness, that the
Monroe Doctrine causes a feeling of jealousy between the South American republics and the United States because these republics are
now strong enough to take care of themselves. They argued that an alliance would be better for all concerned because
it would give each country a representation and because it would cause mutual cooperation.

The negative contended that the need for the Monroe Doctrine is as live today as it ever was, that the
Monroe Doctrine is effective, that the cause of ill feeling between us and the Latin American republics is not the
Monroe Doctrine, but its interpretation, and that Pan-Americanism is impracticable because Brazil, Argentina, and Chile are the only republics able
to enter into an alliance with the United States.

Messrs. Fowle, Cumming, and Webber were chosen to represent the Phi Society in the Inter-Society Debate which is to be
held in the near future. The judges were Dr. Richards and Professor Wood.

THE FRESH-SOPH DEBATE

The Fresh-Soph debate of the Phi Society was held last Tuesday night in the society hall. The object of the
contest was to choose the best debater in the society from the two lower classes. The subject of the debate
was: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should own and operate the railroads engaged in Interstate Commerce.” There was a lot
of pep in the debate and all of the speeches were good. Those debating were R. D. Hall, Roberts, C.
Howell, Spence, C. W. Worth, Currie, Maddrey, Hart, Hamilton, Chalmers, McClure, and Calhoun. The judges decided to award the medal
to W. M. Currie.

The preliminaries of the Fresh-Soph debate were held at the same time in the Eumenean Society. The medal was won
by A. S. Potts.

CAPTAIN MORRISON TO DRILL STUDENTS

Last Saturday morning it was announced that Lieutenant Morrison, of Mooresville, had been secured to take charge of the drilling.
Lieutenant Morrison is a member of the North Carolina National Guard and has seen active service on the border. Davidson
is fortunate in obtaining his services, as few other colleges have an army officer. It is expected that a large
part of the student body will come out and a goodly squad will be organized. Freshmen who take this military
drill will be excused from gymnasium. The drilling will take place three afternoons per week, probably from 4:30 to 5:30.Commanded
by Capt. “Bob” Walker, the fifty or sixty men who have already joined the military company have been doing faithful
work. For the past few weeks, they have been drilling every night after supper. The campus has resounded with “hep,
hep,” and by now they have gained much knowledge of the rudimentary tactics. Much interest is being shown, and this
will probably increase when Lieutenant Morrison arrives. The Student Rifle Club is steadily making progress. The club has received confirmation
from the Adjutant-General of North Carolina stating that the club has been accepted as a member of the National Association.
As soon as a place for a range is decided upon and rifles are secured, practice will begin. The club
has several sites for a range in view, but as yet has not definitely decided upon one. It is hoped
that rifles can soon be secured from the Government. A spare room in the basement of the Library will probably
be used as a storing place for the munitions.

OFFICERS CHOSEN FOR MINISTERIAL BAND

At the last regular meeting of the Ministerial Band, Sunday, the 15th, new officers were elected for the coming year.
From among the many worthy nominees, G. C. Bellingrath, of the rising Senior class, was elected to succeed H. H.
Hamilton as President; Reid Poole, of the rising Junior class, was elected as Vice-President, and D. M. Chalmers, of the
rising Sophomore class, was chosen as Secretary. The meetings this year have been very helpful to the members, who look
forward to lives of united service in the interest of a common cause, and the band is expecting the coming
year to be one of redoubled interest and usefulness.

BATTING AVERAGES

The averages are up to the Carolina game.

| Player | AB | H | OP.CT |
|------------|----|----|-------|
| McMillan | 45 | 14 | .311 |
| Wood | 17 | 5 | .294 |
| Pharr | 26 | 7 | .269 |
| Saunders | 45 | 12 | .267 |
| Hengeveld | 15 | 4 | .267 |
| Black | 43 | 11 | .256 |
| Flowers | 24 | 6 | .250 |
| Keesler | 30 | 6 | .200 |
| Johnson | 51 | 10 | .196 |
| Lawson | 13 | 2 | .154 |
| Miller | 20 | 3 | .150 |
| Boswell | 15 | 1 | .067 |
| Withers | 10 | 0 | .000 |

Team average: .225

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB MET FRIDAY AFTERNOON

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained by Mrs. F. L. Jackson at its meeting on last Friday afternoon. Miss Julia
Johnson read a sketch of Kate Douglas Wiggins’ life, and Mrs. J. E. Currie read selections from one of her
books. For reasons which seemed wise, after a discussion of the matter, the membership of the club was limited to
twenty-one, its present enrollment.

DEBATE WITH EMORY HELD LAST NIGHT

W. H. Neal and G. C. Bellingrath left last Monday morning for Decatur, Ga., where they represented Davidson in the
debate with Emory last night. R. W. Cousar accompanied them as alternate. The subject of the debate was: “Resolved, That
employers and employees of Public Service Corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration.” The debate was held
in the Agnes Scott auditorium. The result of the debate will be announced in the next issue.

Friends at Davidson and among the student body from 1905 to 1909 will learn with sorrow of the death of
Mr. W. A. Price, father of W. Armstrong Price, ’09, on April 9th, at Morgantown, W. Va. Dr. W. A.
Price, Jr. has been professor of Geology at the University of West Virginia for a few years, and his parents
have been with him there. The family were residents of Davidson during the period above named, and the home was
open to the students at all times.

MRS. LINGLE HONORED BY GOVERNOR BICKETT

By recent action of Governor Bickett, Mrs. T. W. Lingle has been commissioned as a member of the State Board
of Charities and Public Welfare. Mrs. Lingle succeeds Mrs. I. F. Hill, of Durham, who was unable to accept the
appointment recently confirmed by the Senate. This board was reorganized and has been unable, since the last session of the
Legislature, to do much work on account of the lack of funds because their appropriation of $15,000 was unintentionally left
off the Legislative calendar.

WORK ON GYM BEGUN

Work was begun a few days ago in preparation for the building of the new gymnasium. It was expected that
the actual laying of the brick will begin today, although considerable clearing and grading was necessary before this could be
begun. The conditions of the contract call for completion by October 1st, but it is expected by the contractor to
be ready by September if nothing unforeseen happens to delay the work.

Rev. A. P. Hassel, ‘06, a missionary under our board in Japan, preached both sermons in the local church last
Sunday. In the morning, he gave a great deal of interesting information concerning Japan politically and religiously. In the evening,
he took as his theme “Optimism,” showing how that quality is absolutely necessary to a missionary.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tenn.
Offers a complete three-year Law Course
Write for Catalogue
CHARLES H. WILBER, Secretary
Member of the Association of American Law Schools.

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company
Have just received a new line of MILAN, SEMP, BANGKOK AND LEGHORN HATS
Very Chic and Attractive.

For Sale
A SIX ROOM COTTAGE
On North Main St. joining Mrs. Young’s. Lot is 150 Front By 360 Feet Deep.
R. F. Andrews, Davidson, N.C.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
2224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission.
Address LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

Patronize Our Advertisers FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If he hasn't it, Try the Other
Fellow. Tell him that he has something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
