The DAVIDSONIAN, January 31, 1917

Shoe Opening

[With the Alumni]

The Gilmer-Moore Co. opening will be held here at an early date. Wait to see our line before you buy.

A. W. Gignilliat, Jr., '15, has been elected to fill a vacancy in the Department of English of Washington and
Lee University, caused by the resignation of Dr. G. G. Greever, who goes to the University of Indiana. Mr. Gignilliat
will enter upon his duties on or about the 5th of February. He is now engaged in graduate work at
Harvard. He will get his M.A. degree from that University the 1st of February.

Have you seen our $2.50 Basketball and Tennis Shoe?

NEW Y. M. C. A. OFFICERS ELECTED AT LAST MEETING

At the Y. M. C. A. meeting on last Thursday night, the address was made by Rev. B. Abernethy, the
local Methodist minister, the subject being "Character Building." Mr. Abernethy stressed the need for a good foundation, for the careful
selection of the materials which entered into the character, and for the careful planning of the structure in the light
of God’s Word, and the preparation that must be made by each of us for that life which is to
follow the earthly one. The imperative need for daily attention to the forces which affect our lives was emphasized and
the influence which these seemingly trivial things could have was clearly brought out.

At the close of the address, the annual election of officers for the coming year was held. The committee on
nominations recommended the names of T. T. Fowle and J. R. Woods for the office of president. O. C. Williamson
and W. C. Cumming were also nominated. On the third ballot, J. T. Fowle was elected to this office. The
men nominated for vice-president were: W. C. Cumming, O. C. Williamson, and J. R. Woods. W. C. Cumming being elected.
For the office of secretary, the nominees were: R. D. Hall, G. A. Rowland, C. W. Worth, and Joe Askew,
C. W. Worth being elected. The two nominees for treasurer were T. L. Maddrey and R. B. Peters, the former
being elected.

WINSTON-SALEM CLUB HAS ENJOYABLE "FEED"

On last Saturday night, the members of the Winston-Salem Club met and enjoyed a delightful "feed" in 68 Chambers. With
a tempting repast, the evening was spent very pleasantly by all. Plans were also discussed for boosting the interests of
"The Twin-City" at Davidson and of Davidson at Winston, and the motto "Boost a Bigger, Better Winston-Salem" was adopted. Those
present were: C. H. Long, R. A. Dean, J. P. Taylor, T. L. Maddrey, J. A. Thames, H. T. Lilly,
and E. G. Lilly.

At a recent election of officers in the Eumenean Society for the third term, the following men were chosen: President,
W. Y. Sayad; Vice-President, R. W. Cousar; Secretary, R. B. Cunningham; Reviewer, L. H. Eikel; Valedictorian, E. H. Hamilton; Respondent,
G. C. Bellingrath. The following honorary officers were elected by acclamation: Chief Bushwhacker, P. B. Price; Pedagogue, L. H. Eikel.

AN EARLY START.

First Reporter—"Senator Bullyun must have been a bright baby."
Second Reporter—"Why do you think so?"
First Reporter—"He told me in an interview that he began life as a school teacher."—Ex.

Teacher—What zone does Europe lie in?
Student—In the war zone.

Literary Societies SCHEDULE.

"Resolved, That the policy of non-resistance should be adopted by the United States."

Eumenean—Affirmative: Johnson, McCloy, McGirt, Patterson. Negative: Morton, Love, Orgain, Potts.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: C. W. Worth, Bullock, Cumming, Stone, Foscue. Negative: McDonald, Roberts, Boney.Declamations and Orations, Monday morning, February 5:

Eumenean — Declamations: Guy, Liston, McCutcheon, Miller, McClerkin. Orations: J. B. Woods King, V. T., J. Mitchell, Fikel, Frazer.

Philanthropic — Declamations: Hart, Berryhill, W. F. Hall, McClure, Lacy, Kerr. Orations: Finley, Reese, Mann, Overton.

WEEKLY MEETINGS.

Saturday night in the Eumenean Society the question was “Resolved, That the United States should adopt a policy of universal
compulsory military service.” The affirmative was upheld by Sayad, Honeycutt, and T. B. Woods, and the negative by Liston, Jenkins,
and Hudson. The affirmative contended that the adoption of their plan would (1) unify the nation, giving all the various
nationalities a common bond of patriotism; (2) protect us against foreign invasion. It is not undemocratic, they said, and cited
Switzerland as an instance, and warned us to profit by the example of England, and not be caught unprepared. The
points of the negative were: (1) it is not necessary to our defense; (2) it influences us towards an aggressive
policy; (3) it makes other nations distrustful of us; (4) it interferes with a man’s life work, making him sacrifice,
in the army, the best years of his life. The affirmative won the decision.

Monday morning Harrell gave a declamation on “The Tomb of Napoleon.” Crouch gave an oration on “Exemption from Examination,” and
F. M. Mitchell on “Crime.” D. V. Hudson gave an illustrated lecture on preparedness.

In a rather spirited debate Saturday night in the Phi Society upon compulsory military service, the affirmative was upheld by
R. W. Robinson, T. N. Morton, Stegner, and Peters, and the negative by W. C. Neel, H. L. Lilly, R.
D. Hall, and Thames. The decision was unanimous for the negative.

On Monday morning declamations were delivered by Leyburn, on “The Death of Lafayette;” Brown, “The Necessity of War;” Menzies, “Some
Race Problems;” Tremain, “Illiteracy,” and Reese gave an oration on “The Analysis of Subject Matter for a Debate.”

WHERE THE PINS GO

Many persons wonder what becomes of the pins, and a French scientist has deemed the question of sufficient moment to
make a painstaking investigation. The pins, he says, go back to the dust of mother earth. His experiments have shown
that an ordinary pin left exposed to the elements will disappear in eighteen months. A common hairpin will dissolve into
dust in 154 days. A steel pen will vanish into dust in eighteen months, but a polished steel needle will
withstand the ravages of time for a period of two and a half years.—Ex.

Some sons go to college to get a liberal education, while their fathers stay at home and receive an education
in liberality.—Sacramento (Pa.) Times.

Debate, Saturday night, February 3:

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY

Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:

Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N. C.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY

Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty.

Statesville, N. C.

Gilbert & Patterson, A. G. Agents

REAL CONTENTMENT

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “freak”
styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The decision was unanimous for the negative.

Druggists: Mooresville, N. C. Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

FORD TRUCKS to CHARLOTTE, MOORESVILLE - ANYWHERE—ANYTIME. CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Does Commercial Banking, and has a Savings Department. Has Lock Boxes For Rent.

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White Drug Company

Your business is solicited.

John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

Special Attention to Davidson Men.
