2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The reporters for this issue are: R. T. Liston, H. T. Lilly, D. M. Chalmers, C. Howell, R. A. Dean,
C. Hunter, O. C. Williamson, M. S. Kennedy, E. A. Woods, J. T. Maddrey.

MANAGEMENT
W. H. Neal....... Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

NEEDED: CONVICTION.

There is one trait of character that is sadly lacking in the majority of college students, that is conviction. Questions
arise which are vital to every student, and yet a large proportion of them do not form any opinion, or
if they do, they do not uphold their convictions. The student body meeting Monday showed this fact clearly. In the
first place, less than half the student body attended. Then when the question of a nominating system was put before
the house, there was little discussion for and none against it. And yet on the way out of the hall
several were heard to bring up objections to the plan. The same thing happened a year ago, when it was
voted to do away with all forms of hazing, and yet the same men who have objected most strongly to
the policy since, sat without objection or expression of disapproval, while it was passed. So it happens in almost every
student body meeting. Let us have some objection and conviction one way or the other at the meetings and less
“kicking” about what was “run over us” afterward.

DAVIDSON PROFESSOR HAS ARTICLE IN PERIODICAL

One of the features of a recent issue of The Virginia High School Bulletin, published by the University of Virginia,
is an article on “The Great War and the Teaching of European History,” by Dr. T. M. McConnell. This is
an excellent discussion of the method of teaching history in the light of present events. This article is written especially
for teachers of history, but is interesting to all students of history. The purpose of the article is to suggest
several ways to increase the interest of a student already interested in European history. Dr. McConnell says this can be
done, first, by the study of geography. In this connection, he says that “A knowledge of geography is as essential
to the successful study of history as is a plot of land necessary for a house site.” Second, the causes
of the great war should be examined. The writer from his authoritative fund of knowledge discusses the Alsace-Lorraine question; colonial
expansion and commercial rivalry; England’s policy to maintain the balance of power on the continent; the growth of nationality; and
the dismemberment of the Turkish Empire. Thirdly, by the opportunity to study about improved international relations. Through this, one studies
“a means of settling international disputes in some sane and amicable manner.”

Y. M. C. A. MEETING TOMORROW NIGHT

The speaker for the Y. M. C. A. meeting tomorrow night will be J. G. Patton, '16, who is now
attending Union Seminary at Richmond. The meeting will be held at 6:45 instead of at 7:00 o’clock in order to
avoid conflict with the meeting in the local church at 7:30 of the same evening. Patton's subject on Thursday night
will be “The Call to the Ministry.” In order to assist in the work among the students in connection with
the series of meetings which are being held, Patton will probably remain through the week.

SPECIAL MEETINGS IN LOCAL CHURCH THIS WEEK

The week of special prayer is being observed here this week with services at 3:30.In the afternoon and 7:30 at
night, Dr. J. M. Clark, '86, who is now Superintendent of Home Missions for Concord Presbytery, is assisting Dr. Richards
in the work. Before accepting the position of superintendent, Dr. Clark was for nine years in the Home Mission work
in Oklahoma. Much interest is being taken by both the townspeople and the students in these meetings, and all who
can possibly do so are urged to attend both the afternoon and evening services.

STUDENT BODY ADOPTS NOMINATING SYSTEM

At a meeting of the student body held Monday afternoon, a plan submitted by a committee of the Student Council,
which has previously been adopted by that body, for the establishment of a nominating system at Davidson for student body
officers and members of the Student Council, was unanimously adopted. Under this system, a committee of seven members of the
Student Council, four Seniors, two Juniors, and one Sophomore, chosen by the Student Council by secret ballot, will recommend to
the student body four men for President, four for Vice-presidents, and three for Secretary and Treasurer. These will be placed
in nomination and voted upon for the respective offices by members of the student body, and others not recommended may
also be nominated if the student body sees fit. The nominating committee of the Student Council, or rather the recommending
committee, will also recommend to each class a certain number for the position of Student Councilman. Eight men will be
recommended to the Senior class, five to the Juniors, and four to the Sophomores. In all instances, in class elections
and in student body elections, the voting will be by secret ballot. The plan, after being adopted, was voted to
lie upon the table for two weeks, after which time it will be incorporated into the constitution of the student
body. The point system, adopted last Spring and now in operation, was also voted to lie upon the table for
a similar period and will be made a part of the constitution at the same time.

Mr. Frank Lee Jackson, Jr., was welcomed to the home of Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson on Saturday, the
17th inst., and the parents are being congratulated in this regard by their many friends.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

216 N. Tryon St.
See W. H. NEAL
Phone 643
Our Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY
Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.
Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Ladies & Gentlemen
Charlotte

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

New Form TALBOT ARROW COLLARS are curve cut to fit the neck perfectly
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes
:: General Merchandise ::

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
:: FANCY GROCERIES ::
The Southern Serves the South
R. H. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

In the spring, a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Base Ball
Get supplied at THE COMMISSARY

Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia
