“A TALE OF BATH.”

There are times
When beastly crimes
Have sounded forth o’er hill and crest,
And blood runs cold,
And mothers hold
Their whimpering children to their breast.

But oh the shame
That we must name
The most atrocious crime of all,
For it’s enough
To turn necks rough,
Or make hair rise and let it fall.

So listen well
While we dispel
All happy, joyful thoughts of yore,
And tell to you
A story true,
A tale that makes the tears brim o’er.

Not long ago—
A week or so—
All Georgia, Watts, joined,
And soon they made
A mob-like raid,
And Rumple’s loafing bench purloined.

Then hostile grew
The Rumple crew,
And said a few unholy words,
And did not wait
To long debate
But threw all cautions to the birds.

For Rumple knew,
And knew ‘twas true,
She only had to wet her foes
To win unscathed,
For they are bathed
But yearly, as appearance shows.

But ah the shame
That we can name
A few, who did not, would not, fight,
And be it known
That they have shown
A spirit that is pepless quite.

And thus engaged
The battle waged;
Until the very ground was soaked,
And often those
Of Rumple’s foes
Were wet and washed and nearly croaked.

And O the din
Would make you grin,
And wondrous sights would make you stare,
For Hawkins smote
From off his throat
A drop of water sprinkled there.

And Lawson tore
His pompadour
And swore he'd never wash again,
And Flossie White,
Who lost that night
A half his weight, replied “Amen.”

And who will say
That Dishongh's bray
Seemed louder for to those inside
Than Ben White's yell
As water fell
And landed on his dusty hide.

And on that lawn
Dark thoughts were born,
And plans for terrible revenge.
For they did blate
A hymn of hate
And tush their suffering to avenge.

A full six score
They rushed and bore
Away a Rumpleite or two,
With wrath intense
They bore them hence
To Watts to wet them thru and thru.

And all that night
And following night
They made for once their showers flow,
But Rumple smiled
With tempers mild
For they were used to H2O.

And e’er we end
We fain would lend
A moral to this tale so harsh,
For we would pray,
And pleading say
To Georgia, Watts, and Chambers, “Wash.”

GEORGIA DEFEATED
(Continued from page 1)

Summary—Stolen bases: Hengeveld, Black, Wooten; sacrifice hits: Johnson, Cheeves; two-base hit: Spurlock; three-base hit: McMillan; double plays: Davis to Cheeves to Wooten; Hengeveld to Black; struck out: by Hengeveld 4, Satterfield 8; base on balls: Hengeveld 5, Satterfield 4; hit by pitcher: by Hengeveld 2 (Spurlock), (Wooten); passed ball: Keesler; left on bases: Davidson 6, Georgia 9; time of game: 1:40; umpire: Cranford.

BATTING AVERAGES.
The averages include all games played this season.

| AB | H | PCT |
| McMillan | 54 | 16 | .296 |
| Wood | 17 | 5 | .294 |
| Pharr | 28 | 8 | .285 |
| Hengeveld | 20 | 5 | .250 |
| Black | 53 | 13 | .245 |
| Saunders | 53 | 13 | .245 |
| Lawson | 16 | 3 | .188 |
| Keesler | 48 | 9 | .187 |
| Miller |.. .. .. .. .. 28 § «879 Flowers... 0.0... 35 6 «172 Johnson .. 1... 62.) 8901070 Boswell .. .. ...... 23 2 .087

THE FORUM (Continued from page §) —watch the rich, mellow soil fall heavily; see the upturned mouse nest and see with Burns the “Wee sleekit, cowrin, tim’rous beastie,” and have pity at the sight of that “Wee bit heap o’ leaves and stibble.” On the most disagreeable warm day which comes, let Keats visualize for you in his vivid imagery in “The Eve of St. Agnes.” The time spent in reading Dickens is a pleasure and one appreciates his power of vivid description, and new ideas present themselves in quantities. This is, in the worn-out expression, killing two birds with one stone. You will have experienced some of the most recreative hours of your life. And in the second place, of the many things acquired, you have a vast fund of wholesome knowledge which you would not otherwise have gotten. You have assimilated a better expression for your own thoughts. You have had real aesthetic pleasure in that you know the best of the world’s best expression. You get a close contact with nature and an intimate association with human nature through the character personage of literature, which is one of the best ways of knowing yourself and others. You will be much better prepared to do whatever your brain seeks to do. Unconsciously you are in contact with concentration and study. For this position very little experience is necessary. Another feature, you have choice of preferred territory.

SAXUM.

CONCERT WILL BE GIVEN AT COMMENCEMENT

The Orchestra and Glee Club will give their concert at Commencement, which is expected to be better than any given before. Plans for next year’s work are not as yet decided, but the management hopes to go to work this summer, and arrange a full schedule for next fall. Prospects are now bright for plenty of dates. The Band will be included in the programs.

HOTEL STONEWALL, Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL SUFFINE, Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN, Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Danville, Va.
HOTEL MORGAN, Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO. Inc.
Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

Aside from the pleasure of good exercise.

J. P. SANDERS, President
Spalding Equipment

Because our United Motor Lines Regular Lines

Between Charlotte and Statesville

We cater to special trips for students.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
L.B. Patterson, College Representative

The Commissary