6

MISS MARY HENDERSON MARRIES MR. BOWEN

Quite unexpectedly to their friends, and causing a pleasant surprise, was the marriage at high noon, Tuesday, May 1st, of
Miss Mary Henderson, the second daughter of Mrs. M. A. Henderson, to Mr. W. Banks Bowen, now of Richmond, Va.,
but recently of Durham, N.C. The ceremony was performed by Dr. C. M. Richards, at the home of the bride’s
mother, in the presence of the immediate family and a few close friends. The bridal couple left immediately for Richmond.

The bride, who has been teaching for the past session at Mebane, N.C., had just returned to Davidson and introduced
her fiancé to her family and sisters living here. A sudden change in their plans, agreeable to all concerned, resulted
in the marriage taking place Tuesday instead of at a later date, as had been expected. The groom is a
very successful and prosperous business man, while his bride is a young woman of popular gifts and graces that make
her welcome everywhere.

DEBATING CUP WON BY THE PHI SOCIETY

The Alumni Debating Cup was procured through the good offices of Rev. A. R. McQueen, '03, and presented to the
two societies at Commencement, 1912. Definite plans for its award were not made till the spring of 1913-14, and since
that time there has been a decided increase of interest in inter-society debating. The awards have been as follows:

Eumenean—1912, 1913, 1915.
Philanthropic—1914, 1916, 1917.

Inter-collegiate Debates—Begun April, 1900; number, 16; won, 10; lost, 6; colleges engaged, Wake Forest, 5; University of South Carolina, 3;
Wofford, 2; Clemson, 1; Erskine, 1; Emory, 3; Roanoke, 1.

PHI ESSAY CONTEST WINNER IS ANNOUNCED

The annual essay contest of the Phi Society, which closed on April 28th, was won by H. C. Hamilton, ’20.
His subject was “After Victory, What?” H. T. Lilly won second place and J. A. Thames third. The reward for
this contest is a handsome gold medal. The judge for the contest was Dr. W. C. Smith, head of the
Department of English at the State Normal and Industrial College.

NOTE OF THANKS

The Davidsonian staff wishes to express its appreciation to the following ten students (not at present on the staff) who
have been most faithful during the past session in helping with the distribution of the weekly issues of The Davidsonian:
T. C. Stone, W. A. Johnson, Covte Hunter, H. R. Sherrill, I. D. Caldwell, F. W. Faires, L. G. Calhoun,
R. C. Miller, M. A. Siske, and A. L. Fosque.

ALUMNI BANQUET

Plans are now under way for the Alumni Banquet to be held in the Y. M. C. A. building during
Commencement. The Alumni Banquet last year was such a great success that it has proved the need of such an
occasion for the Alumni to get together and show the “Old Davidson Spirit” which they have kept since leaving college.
This will be one of the most interesting events of Commencement, and though the cost of provisions is high at
this time, the price will only be 75 cents per plate. Order yours as soon as possible so as to
get a seat.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 9, 1917

DEFICIT IN PARKER FUND HAS BEEN MADE UP

Last Friday evening directly after supper, at a student body meeting, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle made a stirring appeal with
reference to the Parker Fund, a sum raised each year by the student body to support W. P. Parker, ‘11,
M.A. ’12, missionary to Korea. The generous response of the fellows clearly showed that the matter had only to be
placed squarely before them.and the amount lacking would be raised. With what cash and pledges given at the meeting and
further payments, the short- age was made up.

BOOKS ARE PRESENTED TO SENIOR BIBLE CLASS

Dr. J. B. Shearer has presented each of the members of the Senior Bible class with a copy of the
book “Prayer Meet- ing Papers.” It was written by Mrs. Lizzie Gessner Shearer, and edited by her husband after her
death. The book contains a sketch of her life and is en- hanced by several illustrations. It is a memorial
volume and has proved very acceptable to all.

LARGE ENROLLMENT FOR NEXT YEAR INDICATED

Although it is too early to get definite in- formation, the prospects seem to indicate that Davidson will open next
fall with as large a registration as this year. The number of applications and inquiries re- ceived thus far is
as large as usual, and point to a large Freshman class. With every student as a “canvasser” and rep- resentative
of Davidson, can there be any uncertainty as to the size of the student body next year?

SPORTING GOODS

Complete Equipment for all

Advertising puts you before the people; it makes them think about you, talk about your merchandise, and purchase that which
you advertise. If you don’t advertise, how will they know what you have to sell? If you don't advertise in
the right periodical, the paper will be used for starting fires before it has been read, and your advertisement passes
upward, in smoke, unnoticed. But The DAVIDSONIAN is read weekly, by 1500 in- terested subscribers. It is profitable to use
The DAVIDSONIAN as your advertising medium. The rate is reasonable: $3.85 per inch, yearly, (about 31 issues). Try it. For
further particulars write to O. J. Thies, Jr., Business Manager.

There’s a Real “College Flavor” To our Suits for Young Men

THEY really deserve your first consideration when you’re ready for your spring suit-- they are made by an organization that
specializes in the produc- tion of young men’s clothes--- they’re very ‘‘snappy.”’

Spring Oxfords
Spring “Fixins”
Spring Hats

Mail orders have our prompt attention

ED. MELLON COMPANY

LIBRARY ITEMS.

The Library has been benefited by the addition of only one new book during the past week. It is a
very beautifully illustrated book, “How the Southern Railway Met An Emergency,” issued by the Southern Railway, containing stories of the
recent flood along that road, and how the division “kept the wheels mov- ing.” The Library has added by purchase
and donation 516 books during the year, which closes May 15, 1917. During the same period $172 has been expended
on magazines, and $69 for daily papers for the reading room.

Dr. R. S. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights and Kool Kloths.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina

You are cordially invited to inspect our premises

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists : Mooresville, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP
MOORESVILLE
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO

The Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men
