2 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 25, 1917

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

The Staff
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

Management
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are:
D. W. Roberts, T. J. Mitchell, L. P. Good, W. T. Johnson, Jr., J. B. Woods, L. G. Calhoun, C. W. Foreman, T. E. Guy, M. A. Tremain, J. F. McClerkin, R. W. Cousar, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. Love, R. T. Liston, and D. M. Orgain.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

President Hibben—“I would like to see the Stars and Stripes planted somewhere along the Hindenburg line.”

President Wilson, in his recent Proclamation to the people, makes an appeal which vitally concerns the economies of our nation. If the war is of long duration, the internal thrift and productiveness of our country will determine largely the result of the struggle for us. “Let every man and every woman assume the duty of careful, provident use and expenditure as a public duty, as a dictate of patriotism which no one can now expect to be excused or forgiven for ignoring.”

Then surely there is a part that young men can take which will lessen expenditures. Until drawn into service, part of the summer vacation can be profitably spent on the farm as a productive laborer. But another thing is of vital importance. This is to make some denial—not of necessities but of luxuries. Then some say what are the luxuries? They are those things which are not vitally necessary to your comfort and enjoyment. Many could be just as comfortable with one suit less than they are accustomed to have in their wardrobe. Just as big a hit can be made without a new silk handkerchief for your coat pocket. Probably you have planned for a pair of shoes which are not needed. Many other commonplace things of everyday life can be dispensed with. You say why this? Because foodstuffs and most necessities are bringing fabulous prices. To go at the normal rate of living a much larger expenditure will be needed. If these extravagances are done away with, probably the necessities can be had without an addition to the normal yearly run of expenses. We are doing the unusual this year—we are going to war. Our people are making preparation for conflict and for farming as they have never made before in our history. We can do our part—cut down expenses. With many, the present increase in commodities will make no difference. But if they will make this exception, it will not be so hard for the fellow who is forced to it. It would be a good plan if each one would join a league with himself and adopt some method that he will follow which will bring him to such a system. “The Supreme Test of the nation has come. We must all speak, act, and serve together!”

RETROSPECTION AND CHANGE.

We are approaching the time of greatest introspection of the college year. We are soon to examine ourselves and find out what new relations exist between our minds and the world outside. Also, we are putting ourselves in a retrospective mood. New plans for various student organizations and institutions are being formulated as past experience and system necessitate. One thing which should be remedied is of concern to the Literary Societies. The present scheme allows a man who is to take some part in the program to get another to substitute for him. The one on duty is relieved of an impending fine and neglects a deal of wholesome training because of this. This is why so many Seniors are speaking so often just before Commencement. This is an injustice to the should-be-speaker and to the society. If this was used judiciously, it would be a fine plan. But it is abused by many. It should be that a member (if he is on the Hill) should do his duty with his class or be fined unless sufficient reason for non-performance be given. Some fellows boast that they have not given a debate or have not gotten up a declamation. A society man, to get the best training and development in this field, should take part in both the Saturday night and Monday morning meetings. It is unjust to other members because thereThere are always a few fellows who will take a place without making much preparation. It is an imposition on the society to hear one man speak successively until the limit of endurance is reached and monotony begins. This system is of advantage to him who substitutes but the disadvantages are far greater. To those committees who are revising constitutions we say let us remedy this error and stimulate interest in this activity.

CONCERT TO BE GIVEN AT QUEENS COLLEGE

A. T. Cashion, manager of the Orchestra and Glee Club, has announced a trip to Queens College which will probably be made next Saturday. The trip through South Carolina has been cancelled on account of the war and owing to the fact that some of the men were off the Hill. This trip would have included concerts at Sumter, Bishopville, Columbia, and Chester. Another concert at Queens College will probably be given later on. This will complete the trip for this year. A concert will be given on the Hill at Commencement. The officers for next year have recently been elected. They are: A. T. Cashion, manager; E. P. Childs, Jr., director, and J. L. Fowle, leader of the Glee Club. Next year promises to be a good one for the Orchestra and Glee Club under these officers.

THE BAND TO GIVE ITS FIRST CONCERT

On Friday afternoon of this week, at 5:30, the Band will make its first public appearance. It will be an open-air performance and will be given in the vicinity of Elm Row. Both college students and town people are cordially invited to come. The boys have worked hard to make this organization a success, in the hope that next year, with the aid of the student body and faculty, a large band can be organized that will be a credit to the college. We need a good band here—one that the students can feel belongs to them and one which they can call on at any time.

Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office. We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Let us quote you prices on any printing that is ordinarily—or extraordinarily—used in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Representative

A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Baseballs, Shoes, Gloves
Tennis Balls, Tennis Rackets
Tennis Nets & Tennis Shoes
at The Commissary

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. S. Patterson, Representative

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen
33 South Tryon

TYRONE—2½ in.
ARROW Formfit COLLAR
2 for 30¢
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS

FOR THAT FORD TRIP...
R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

The Southern Serves the South
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Quality Counts—That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.
Alex. Taylor & Co.
The Commissary

DR. J. W. McCONNELL RECEIVES AN HONOR

Dr. Wilson McConnell attended the State Medical Society meeting at Asheville the past week. Dr. McConnell read a paper on “Trachoma—with special reference to its occurrence in North Carolina,” that excited considerable discussion and comment both on account of the character of the paper and its timeliness, for it is feared that this dreadful eye disease will be more prevalent after the war. Dr. McConnell was elected president of the Eye, Ear, and Throat section of the society, and Dr. J. P. Matheson, secretary.