The DAVIDSONIAN, February 14, 1917

Shoe Opening | Literary Societies | The Gilmer-Moore Debate Co. of Charlotte will have a complete line of shoes on display at No. 2 Rumple today. Let us fit you. JOHNSON & POTTS No. 2 Rumple

Brown's Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon

Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. W. L. Douglas, Agent 7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 L. B. PATTERSON

SCHEDULE. Saturday night, February 17th: “Resolved, ‘That the anti-alien law of the Western States should be passed.” Eumenean—Affirmative: Lingrath, Brand, Burns, Boges, Brown, Burgess. Negative: Alexander, Spence, Hall, E. G. Lilly, McKeithen. Philanthropic—Affirmative: Clark, Dunlap, Grey, Kornegay, W. H. Neal. Negative: Allen, Belk.

Declamations and Orations, Monday morning, February 19th: Eumenean—Declamations: Byrd, Carwile, R. R. Crain, Cunningham. Orations: Cousar, G. S. Crouch, A. R. Craig, Chambliss. Philanthropic—Fowle, Howell, Carriker, Caldwell, C. E. Rankin, Hunter, Nisbet, Brown, Karriker.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES. The Gamecock—A movement has been started to erect a suitable memorial to “Bob” Gonzales, the late distinguished alumnus of South Carolina. The disposition of the funds will depend upon the amount raised. Among the suggestions already made for the memorial are: The erection of a bronze tablet, the purchase of a portrait for the University chapel, or an endowed scholarship.

The Virginia Tech—The crack basketball team of V. P. T. defeated the Lynchburg Y. M. C. A. quint recently to the tune of 37 to 16. This is the first time the Y. M. C. A. has been defeated on their home floor in the past five years, and incidentally it is the largest score that has ever been piled up against them.

The Vanderbilt Hustler—There seems to be trouble in making the students at Vanderbilt pay the second installment on their Association ticket. The officers of the Athletic Association say that all benefits will be promptly stopped unless payment is made. The publications will not be sent to them and they will have to pay full fare to enter all future athletic contests. Only 168 students purchased tickets at the beginning of the year and on West Campus there are but 54 out of about 550 or 600 men who have bought tickets.

Old Gold and Black—Wake Forest will play Hampden-Sydney at Norfolk for the final game of the season on Thanksgiving Day. Wake Forest also expects to go farther afield and play Maryland State College on October 27.

The Tiger—Several good track meets are being scheduled to be held at Clemson College this Spring. Return meets with Newberry and Davidson on the campus and dual meets with Georgia at Athens, and Carolina at Columbia, are practically assured. Several men were lost last June by graduation, but enough remain to form a nucleus for a better team than represented Clemson last year.

PROFESSOR FULBRIGHT TO TEACH EXPRESSION Professor Fulbright, who taught a private class in expression here last spring, is expected to arrive at Davidson February 20th, to begin his series of lessons in expression with the Freshman English Class. If enough men sign up, he will also have a private class for upper-classmen similar to the one conducted last year.

LECTURES SATURDAY IN SHEARER HALL

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin DENTIST 413 Realty Building Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address: Sheridan’s Teachers’ Agency Charlotte, N. C.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY do All Kinds of Printing for college men Prompt delivery a Specialty Statesville, N. C.& Patterson

REAL CONTENTMENT
Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.

Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

An event of importance to students, faculty, and townspeople alike is the series of lectures which is to be given here on Saturday, February 17th, by Mr. R. D. W. Connor, Secretary of the North Carolina State Historical Commission. The series has been condensed into two lectures which will be given at 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m., in Shearer Hall, the subject being, “The Race Elements Which Have Entered Into the Population of North Carolina.” In these lectures, the speaker will discuss the contributions made by the English, Germans, Scotch, Irish, and others. This series was first given at the State Normal College, at Greensboro, where it attracted much attention, and has since been given at several of the leading colleges of the State.

Mr. Connor has been Secretary of the State Historical Society since 1903, was President of the State Literary and Historical Association in 1912, and is now Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the State University. In addition, Mr. Connor is an author of note. His thorough knowledge of the subject of his lectures, combined with his pleasing delivery, assures a treat for those who hear him on Saturday.

TOWN NEWS

Miss Louise Manning, of the faculty of Statesville College, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. M. E. Manning.

Mr. L. B. Long, the grocer, has been quite ill with pneumonia for a week.

Mr. J. A. Hartsoe, manager of the livery on Academy Street, died last week.

Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle is spending the week with relatives in Jacksonville and Tallahassee, Fla.

Mrs. I. W. MacConnell has been at the Brenizer Hospital in Charlotte for the past two weeks.

Mrs. Allison, of Concord, has been visiting the Misses Young, on North Main Street, for the past few weeks.

Mrs. T. M. Douglas spent Monday in Charlotte.

Miss Annie Henderson spent three days last week with her mother, Mrs. M. A. Henderson.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists: Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

THE NEXT MAGAZINE

In the next issue of the Davidson College Magazine, which will come from the press within the next few days, the following articles will appear: Mission, E. H. Hamilton; War Poems, S. R. Keesler; Early History of Phi Society, R. H. Stone; On Account of the Weather, W. Love; Company, W. C. Cumming; The Skeleton in the Closet, C. Howell; Tagore, J. W. S. Gilchrist; Religious Education, C. M. Richards; The Lunatic, L. A. Chambliss; Thoughts, a Series of Chats; In the Library.

Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.

John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cashier; J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

"I'm thinking seriously of starting a moving-picture theatre."
"Well, there's good money in that business."
"It isn’t the money I'm after. But I would like to see my wife and children once in a while." — New York World.

Mistress—"Jane, I’ve found my best silk petticoat in your box!"
Jane—"‘Ave yer, mum? I thought you had lost it! Fancy that!"