The Davidsonian

Vol. IV.

Red and Black Quint Wins Two More Games

At Mission Study Rally

Charlotte and Statesville Are Defeated by Local Team.

CHARLOTTE GAME.

Davidson defeated the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. last Friday night in a fast and interesting game of basketball, 50
to 33. Davidson had their opponents outclassed in the first half, but Charlotte came back strong in the second and
put up a snappy game. For Davidson, it would be difficult to say who starred. The whole team played an
excellent game. Childs, at forward, played a wonderful game, scoring 16 points in the first half. Reese also played a
fast game, scoring points. Hengeveld also kept up his good work at center, adding 12 to the score. The locals
played a better game than they had previously done at Davidson.

DAVIDSON. POSITION. CHARLOTTE.
Childs (16) .......... Black
King (2) ............ Davenport (11)
Forwards.
Hengeveld (12) ...... Howell (6)
Center.
Reese (16) .......... Walker
Hunter (10) ......... Crook (2)
Guards.

Summary—First half: Davidson 31, Charlotte 12; second half: Davidson 14, Charlotte 21; total: Davidson 50, Charlotte 33. Substitutes: Wood (4)
for Childs, Bendle (2) for Black, Marsh (2) for Hunter. Referee: Graham.

STATESVILLE GAME.

Saturday night the Davidson quintet journeyed to Statesville and added one more victory to their growing list. It was a
close and interesting game from beginning to end and may be considered a great victory for Davidson, considering the heavy
team they went up against. In the first half, Davidson led 16 to 10, but Statesville came back strong in
the second half and scored 21 points to Davidson’s 18.

For Davidson, Hengeveld was the star. Holding starred for Statesville. Reese was sure in shooting fouls.

DAVIDSON. POSITION. STATESVILLE.
King (8) ............ Holding
Childs (8) .......... Strupper
Forwards.
Hengeveld (12) ...... Etheridge
Center.
Reese (6) ........... Bradley
Walker ............. Morrison

Summary—First half: Davidson 16, Statesville 10; second half: Davidson 18, Statesville 21; total: Davidson 34, Statesville 31. Substitutions: Guy for
Bradley. Referee: Dean.

CAMPUSISMS.

F. H. Baker, ex-’17, spent Saturday and Sunday on the campus. Jack Myers, of Charlotte, was on the campus Thursday.
E. M. Whitehead, ’20, spent the weekend at his home in Salisbury. Mr. Benson, a jeweler and traveling salesman for
Wright-Kay, was on the Hill a few days last week. W. M. Fountain, '18; S. M. Crisp, John Daffin, '18,
have been confined in the infirmary during the past week.

Dr. McMillan Speaks on Home Missions---The Classes.

On last Thursday evening, the Y. M. C. A. members had an unusual treat in having with them as the
speaker for the evening, Dr. Homer McMillan. His visit and talk were all the more appreciated because of the fact
that he had made a special trip up from Atlanta just to be at Davidson for this occasion. The nature
of his address was a plea for Home Mission workers. “Lift up your eyes and look out upon the fields,
white and ready for the harvest.” Dr. McMillan quoted these words of the Master which He had addressed to His
apostles, intending that they should see the situation, then know it, and finally go. His inspiration would lead to their
information and thence to their obligation. Dr. McMillan continued his talk by a discussion of the Home Mission work as
viewed from three angles: (1) Its Field, (2) Its Foes, and (3) Its Fruits.

In the first place, situated in a country with an area of three and one-half million square miles, centrally located
wherein now rests the seat of power of the Western hemisphere, and is soon to dominate the world; whose present
population exceeds 103,000,000 people, and at the present rate of increase will pass the 500,000,000 mark before the close of
this century—where indeed could we find a better mission field? With more than 60,000,000 of our own people in no
wise connected with the church, for less than 38 percent have any relations with it whatsoever, he pointed out the
opportunity for mission work among those millions still their obligation. And even while the church waits, the enemy is watching.
The Mormon church, the wealthiest organization of its kind and having the best-organized mission force in the world; the false
faces from the Orient; Romanism, for the Catholic church now has over 15,000,000 members in the United States alone and
has grown twice as fast as the Protestant in recent years; mainly through

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 24, 1917.

Stirring Address Made

Class Football Series Will Start Saturday

No. 15

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

All Teams Are Working Hard For A Successful Season.

SCHEDULE.

January 27—Soph-Junior.
January 29—Senior-Fresh.
February 3—Soph-Senior.
February 5—Junior-Fresh.
February 10—Soph-Fresh.12—Junior Senior.

The 1917 class football season will open Saturday with a game between the Sophs and Juniors. The teams, both collectively
and individually, have been practicing faithfully for the last few days and are getting in shape for the annual mix-up.

The Senior team, with “Billy” Savad as manager, “Bill” Keesler as captain, and “Sam” Keesler coaching, has been going through
light drill practice and has had no hard work yet. They are in fine trim as a large number of
the players have been in the game before. The Junior team, with “Jack” Black managing and assisting in the coaching,
has been running signals on the campus with light scrimmaging, and they, like the Seniors, seem in fine shape for
the fight before them. R. P. Richardson has been re-elected captain for this season.

The Sophomores, with Manager “Buck” Burns leading, have been making the athletic field ring with signals and “dummy” practice. They
are putting out an unusually strong and heavy team this year and will do themselves credit in the oncoming struggle.
The Fresh team, with Manager Elliot and Coach “Bob” Walker, has been going through a series of hard practices. They
are as yet raw material, but there is no doubt that with Walker's guiding hand they will develop into a
real “fighting machine.”

Altogether, the four teams show up unusually well, and this season bids fair to be a red-letter one in the
annals of Davidson's class football.

RE-EXAM. SCHEDULE.

Re-examinations and postponed examinations will be conducted by the members of the Faculty at the hours indicated below:

9-12 a.m., Monday, January 29th—Professors J. L. Douglas and Currie.
2-5 p.m., Monday, January 29th—Professors J. M. Douglas, Grey, and Lingle.
9-12 a.m., Monday, February 5th—Professors Harding, Reed, Sentelle, and Wood.
2-5 p.m., Monday, February 5th—Professors Fulton and J. W. McConnell.
9-12 a.m., Monday, February 12th—Professors J. M. McConnell, Shearer, Withers.
2-5 p.m., Monday, February 12th—Professor Arbuckle.

There will be a praise meeting for the women of the Presbyterian Church in the Civic Hall tomorrow evening at
8 o'clock.

Mrs. A. G. Brenizer and son are visiting Dr. C. R. Harding for a short stay while Dr. Brenizer is
in Statesville.

Mrs. Sebine, formerly Miss Isabelle Grey, and her husband, of New York, visited last week Dr. W. R. Grey and
family.

Mrs. Turlington, of Mooresville, and Miss Admonia Martin, a missionary from Brazil, expect to be in Davidson this week.

Mrs. Thomas Wharey is leaving the first of the week to make her home with her daughter in Bennettsville, S.C.

Mrs. Violet Currie is visiting her son, Mr. Edward Currie, in Salisbury.

Misses Winifred and Katherine Potts were in Davidson for the weekend from Queens College.

DR. MARTIN RETURNS FROM INTERESTING TRIP

To a reporter, Dr. Martin gave an outline of his tour of some Northern cities. He first stopped in Cincinnati,
where he went out to the University of Cincinnati. There, Dr. Williams, physical director of the institution, went over their
gymnasium with him. The next three or four days were spent in Chicago in attendance at the Convention of the
Association of American Colleges. There were about two hundred members present and the meetings were held in the La Salle
Hotel. On Saturday afternoon of the 13th, he went out to Whiting, Ind., where he visited Dr. F. M. Rogers,
'03. He is chief chemist of the refining plant of the Standard Oil Co., one of the largest of its
kind in the United States.

The following Monday, he left Chicago for New York, where he spent two days, one day of which was devoted
to the discussion of plans for the gymnasium. Mr. Smallwood, '06, is the architect. There he found the plans practically
complete, but some few modifications were made. Dr. Martin is very much pleased with the plans and says that this
will be one of the best-appointed college gyms he ever saw. In New York, he went to the West End
Y. M. C. A. and investigated the method to purify pool water by the violet ray system. He thinks that
this is a good method and hopes to adopt it here when the pool is put in. The plans were
promised to be delivered this week. Then it will be necessary for the Executive Committee to pass upon them. As
soon as the weather permits, the work will be pushed as rapidly as possible.

While in New York, he saw Francis L. Fuller, with headquarters on Broadway, who is chief counsel for the Liggett
& Myers Tobacco Co. Mr. Fuller is very much interested in the college. Friday was spent in Washington, where everything
was being put in preparation for the funeral of Admiral Dewey.
