The DAVIDSONIAN, January 17, 1917

With the Alumni

The following from “The Charlotte Observer” of recent date should be of interest both to present and former students:

“Fishburne Military Academy, at Waynesboro, Va., is claiming the Virginia preparatory football championship. The team has a splendid claim, too,
with seven victories and no defeats. The team during the past Fall has been coached by Pete Crayton, of Charlotte,
former Davidson star and one of the hardest working and most inspiring coaches that the Red and Black has developed
in recent years. It is stated that Fishburne is the only preparatory school in the State who has not suffered
a defeat this Fall, and upon this record the claim is justified.”

* * *

In a competitive examination given by the Board of Examiners of the United States Naval Academy, Mr. J. W. Pratt,
associate professor of English in A. & M. College, Raleigh, N. C., obtained the most satisfactory grade and has been
appointed to an instructorship in the English department of the Naval Academy. Mr. Pratt graduated from Davidson in 1908. He
has been connected with the English department of A. & M. for three years, and by this appointment the institution
loses a valuable man. Mr. Pratt will begin his duties at the Naval Academy about October 1st. Mr. Pratt’s former
home was at Marion, N. C.—Ex. While at Davidson Mr. Pratt was elected President of the Student Body and was
also Valedictorian of his class.

* * *

Dr. J. S. Mitchener, ’09, of Edenton, N. C., has been elected health officer for Chowan County, N. C.

* * *

MARRIAGES.

Mr. W. H. Manning, ex-’13, of Barnwell, S. C., was married to Miss Edna Anderson, on December 20, 1916.

Mr. W. R. Bedinger, ex-’12 of Abingdon, Va., and Miss Ann Elizabeth Noell, of Roanoke, Va., were married December 27,
1916, in Roanoke.

Mr. Thomas W. Davies, ’10, of Augusta, Ga., was married December 27, 1916, to Miss Margaret C. Dixon, of Red
Springs, N. C.

GOT THE WRONG PERSON.

In no other household except that of a doctor could this mistake so plausibly have occurred.

“Get my bag for me at once,” boomed the doctor, “some fellow says in a dying voice that he can’t
live without me.”

“Just a moment,” interposed his wife. “I think that call is for daughter, dear.” —Louisville Courier-Journal.

TWO ESSENTIAL POINTS.

Friend—What is the first thing you do when a man presents himself to you for consultation?

Doctor—I ask him if he has a car.

Friend—What do you learn from that?

Doctor—If he has one I know he is wealthy, and if he hasn’t I know he is healthy. —Puck.

“It only takes me twenty minutes to get to my office,” said Mr. Chuggins. “But you didn’t arrive until an
hour after you telephoned you were leaving. It took me the other forty minutes to get the car started.” —Washington
Star.

LITERARY LARCENY.

Every man who uses the college library has felt the explosive vexation that strains his moral safety valve, when after
searching the card index he happily comes upon the number of the book he wants, only to find it subscribed
“lost” or “missing.” It is dismaying to observe how many valuable books are gone, and how many of the costly
library editions and sets of authors are broken by the loss of one or more volumes. And where are these
errant books? They are flown on the diabolic wings of theft. Does the fault rest with the library administration? Not
altogether, for the librarians must presume upon honesty in those who have access to the reference shelves and especially in
those who go among the stacks; and they are helpless when they must depend upon honesty that is not.

It is ignominy enough that there should be students among us who degrade themselves to any thievery. It is infamy
unutterable that there should be scoundrels so base as to steal the books of our library. For those books are
the property of the students, and larceners of them become public enemies. Let us eradicate this unprincipled sect of literary
thieves from our midst by referring all cases of book-theft to the Honor Committee, whose duty is to deal with
such matters, and by demanding that the committee shall take effective penal action. —Wake Forest.

SIGNALS.

In addition to the familiar “Stop, Look and Listen” signs, erected at crossings of its lines and public highways, the
Southern Railway plans to install approach warning signs on the highways 300 feet away from the tracks. Permission will be
asked of county authorities as such signs will be placed beyond the railway’s right of way.

It is planned to place the signs on the right side of the highway, approaching crossings, in the hope that
they will attract the attention of automobile drivers while they still have ample distance in which to stop. Experience has
shown that automobiles are driven so swiftly on the public highways that frequently their drivers fail to bring them under
control after they see the customarySign on the railway's right of way. The approach signs will consist of the letters
“R. R.” and a cross painted boldly in black on a white field on cast iron disks 24 inches in
diameter, mounted on pedestals nine feet high, being in accordance with standards adopted by the American Railway Association. Several months
will be required for placing these signs throughout the territory served by the Southern Railway, but in the meantime county
officers will be requested to grant the necessary permission.

Dr. Edward Mack, a distinguished alumnus of Davidson, now a professor at the Seminary at Richmond, was in town last
week. He is the father of Joe Mack, ‘19.

“Bang!” went the rifles at the maneuvers. “Oo-oo!” screamed the pretty girl—a nice, decorous, surprised little scream. She stepped backwards
into the arms of a young man. “Oh!” said she, blushing, “I was frightened by the rifles. I beg your
pardon.” “Not at all,” said the young man. “Let's go over and watch the artillery.” —Pickings.

Dr. D—In how many states does matter exist?
Freshman (waiting a moment)—A—I do—Oh! Forty-eight.

KILL FISH SOON AS CAUGHT.
It is not only more humane, but it yields a better food value if fish are killed as soon as
they are taken from the water. This may be done by a quick blow on the head or by pushing
the head back to break the neck. It is a mistake to let the fish flop about in the bottom
of the boat or lie gasping in the creel. The fisherman should then “bleed” the fish by running the knife
blade around the bottom of the gills. This brings the fish home, ready for the cooking pan, in the best
possible condition. Says a veteran angler who is an expert in more arts than the single one of pulling bass
and trout from the water, “In order to get your fish home without any discoloration take along a yard or
two of white cheesecloth. As soon as the fish is caught, kill it and bleed it. Then dampen the cloth
and wrap up each fish separately, taking care that no two fish touch each other. By doing this you will
find that all the color markings on the fish will remain just as clear and bright as when taken from
the water, and the fish will be sweet and palatable.” —Ex.

Presbyterian Standard
“Every Job a Good One”
216 N. Tryon St. Phone 643
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
According to an American technical journal, aqua ammonia—i.e., the common liquid ammonia to be obtained at the oil shops—forms a
most efficient fire extinguisher, and several instances are given of its power to arrest incipient conflagration. In one case the
vapor from a tank of benzoline caught fire in a laundry, the room being filled with flame. The fire was
at once annihilated by throwing into the room a bottle containing a gallon and a half of ammonia, procured from
a chemist’s shop which happily was situated next door. The chemist, in reporting the matter, stated that the effect was
instantaneous, the flames giving place to torrents of black smoke, and in a moment every trace of fire was gone.
The most surprising feature of the occurrence is that the tank of benzoline remained intact, although the vapor from it
was the initial cause of the outbreak.

Life is not jest and amusement; life is hard labor.—Turgenev.

Ard Publishing Co.
See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

REAL CONTENTMENT
Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “freak”
styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists : Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Your business is solicited
Gilbert & Patterson Agents

GENTLEMEN
WHEN IN NEED OF TONSORIAL WORK
Give Us a Trial
Rutledge & Norton
Next Door to Post Office
