SPRING is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for this Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. Johnson & Potts 2 Rumple “24 Hour Delivery” 9 Brown’s Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank Cc. L GREY Davidson, N. C. Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S. Potts, Agent 2 Rumple Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 Lt. &. PATTERSON, Representative part. I know the writer spoke the truth when The DAVIDSONIAN, April 4, 1917 world. All humans are like sheep, which has been said before. May I not take an humble place in this great wave of reformation which is sweeping over the college, and give my ideas? The question discussed by a writer in a recent issue of The Davidsonian was whether the Student Council is doing its duty or not, and why. In it, we are told of practically everything that occurred in a late meeting of this body, even to the Council's opinion as to what the student body would do in case those convicted should appeal to it over the Council's decision. There is a Council law forbidding the Councilmen to repeat anything said or done in their meetings. We wonder how the writer of this article deduced his facts? Has the Student Council ordered its minutes published, and appointed someone to do it? Or has a councilman been spreading information? If the latter is the case, can a Student Council that disregards its own rules, force a student body to obey them? But it is evident that I am knocking the Student Council. It seems to me that a person who runs down the Council, and yet does not know how to better it (by writing a new constitution, for instance), is a hypocrite. Since I am confident of the fact that I could not improve the Student Council, I must be a hypocrite. Moreover, the author of the article mentioned above states from his wide knowledge of things, that the Student Council has argued for five or six hours at a time on such questions as “What is repeated drunkenness?” Might a humble beginner in the ranks of literature suggest that a good definition of this is “Being drunk more than once?” Another article in The Davidsonian suggests that official whippings be introduced into the college for minor offenses. Surely the writer of this article has enough college spirit not to wish his college transformed into a kindergarten! A college in which a student would officially thrash his best friend, in order to punish him for some minor offense would be a college indeed. Sir Thomas Moore might have well included such a college in his Utopia! Can we knockers not let the Student Council do its best, however poor this may be? Or do we prefer to have members of the Faculty reside in the dormitories, and take charge of the discipline of the college? The Forum WHAT IF WAR COMES? Rumors of war fill the air. Indeed even war itself knocks at our door, and it seems that it will break down the threshold of our very nation in spite of our earnest efforts to keep it outside. A condition of war would call for decision and quick action from many noble hearts all over our country, and we are proud of our college, who would surely do her part. What is our part? A band, three hundred and seventy-five strong, we stand ready to serve in the cause of right and justice, but of what will our service consist? True, each will enlist in that service for which he is best fitted, yet it seems to the writer that some in our number are best suited for some particular tasks. There are in our midst those who would be skilled chemists. These I dare say would seek service in the secluded and protected laboratories of the nation. And the physicists, too, would probably try to get into the ammunition factories. Because of their special training the Freshmen would be excellent members of a band of infantry. Is it unreasonable to suppose that the ministerial band would shun the position as chaplains? All have had a good deal of experience in “shooting,” and, in one sense, would make excellent marksmen. Consider these things and then your own individual accomplishments, and then if you cannot fulfill the requirements, go to Plattsburg next summer. BISHOP.Two weeks ago we read a long article about the Student Council and why it was not staying on the job. We all heard that statement, but what I say is, if it can’t hold down the job, let us abolish the Student Council. Why should we have a bunch of spies sneaking around the campus to see when we gentlemen play a game of poker, or take a few drinks of the good old “corn,” or beat up a few Freshmen in a friendly way? What business is it of theirs if we do those things? Why, everyone knows a man is a “sissy” if he doesn’t play poker, drink, and haze Freshmen. Then that writer said something about reporting being “the base rock of the honor system,” or something like that. I expect he meant to say that we all ought to report things. Well, I have talked it over with my friends and we have decided that any man who says we ought to report is a fool, or worse, as it is against human nature, and therefore, as you can't go against human nature, we won't report anything except out and out cheating on reviews or exams. Even then we will go mighty slow. Of course, we know that it is against human nature to be polite all the time, and yet we try to be as polite as we can; that it is against human nature to wear clothes and to eat with knives, forks, and spoons, and yet we do wear clothes and we do use knives, forks, and spoons instead of our fingers; that it is against human nature to study or do other things when we don’t want to, and yet we often study under protest and compulsion, and do many things that we don’t want to do; and that it is against human nature to do right, and yet we try to do right. But we claim that all these and many others are exceptions to the rule, as we think reporting is against human nature. Of course, we simply cannot do it.

PETROLEUM V. NASBY II.

* * *

CITIZENS’ RIFLE CLUB IS ORGANIZED HERE

The citizens of Davidson met recently and decided to organize a Citizens’ Rifle Club. The purpose of this club will be to promote marksmanship. There is no military obligation whatever connected with it, and the organization will be carried on in much the same way as the college club. The two clubs will use the same rifle range and have the same coach, Captain Morrison, of Mooresville. Supplies, such as rifles and ammunition, will be furnished at cost by the government. The officers of this club have not been elected yet, but probably will be soon. There are at present about twenty-five members, and it is hoped that others will join.

There seems to be a tendency of late among members of the Student Body to follow the lead of the fictitious Don Quixote, and give their efforts to righting wrongs and making this an ideal...

CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms

The plans for the College Rifle Club are still being perfected. The names of those that have joined have been handed into the faculty for approval. They will then be sent to the government. The securing of the rifles at present is doubtful. Owing to the crisis in our relations with Germany, the War Department is hesitant as to the granting of government arms to private citizens. However, Dr. J. W. McConnell thinks that within a few weeks the rifles will be ready for the members. The work on the range will probably begin when Captain Frazer, who is at home for a few days, returns.

DAVIDSON APPEARS IN MOVING PICTURES

The historic entrance to Chambers building is to appear in a reel of movies in the near future. Messrs. Leon Applewhite and Howard Conway, of Charlotte, are the two movie actors in the scene, while several Davidson students make their initial attempt at movie acting.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan’s Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

The Brady Printing Company
Is prepared to do all kinds of printing for college men. Prompt delivery a specialty.
Gilbert & Pattersen Agents
Statesville, N.C.

SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.