Vol. V.

Georgia Tech Wins By Score of 32 to 10

Davidson Scores Field Goal and Touchdown.

The perfect record that Georgia Tech has enjoyed so far this season was broken last Saturday when “Buck” Flowers dropped
the ball through the goal posts from Tech’s 28-yard line and George King crossed the goal that has not been
crossed this season, with the ball. Although Davidson suffered defeat, it was not the team’s fault, for they put up
a fight that made the 1916 Southern champions open their eyes and entertain a doubt of their victory.

FIRST QUARTER

Grey, for Davidson, kicked off 50 yards to Strupper, who returned 20 yards. Hill made three yards through the line
and Guyon six yards around left end. Hill again ran for five yards through center and made first down. Strupper
was thrown for a five-yard loss in an attempt at an end run. Hill made four yards through center. Guyon
punted 40 yards to Flowers, who returned four yards. Flowers made two yards over left tackle, and Burns followed with
a one-yard gain around left end. Grey punted 45 yards to Strupper, who returned 50 yards and placed the ball
on Davidson's 31-yard line. Harlan gained one yard over left tackle, Strupper made four yards over right tackle. George Crouch
intercepted an attempted forward pass and was thrown on Davidson's 20-yard line. Flowers made five yards over right tackle. Burns
made two yards over left tackle and then hit the center for first down. George Crouch gained five yards over
right tackle. Burns made two yards over left tackle, and then made four yards around right end. McAllister gained two
yards over right guard. After two more runs which were not successful, Flowers punted 28 yards. Tech’s ball on their
24-yard line. Hill fumbled and recovered on Tech’s 20-yard line. Guyon punted 38 yards to Flowers, who signaled for a
fair catch. Davidson's ball on the 40-yard line. Burns hit the line for a three-yard gain. Grey punted 38 yards
to Strupper, who returned three yards, placing the ball on Tech’s 18-yard line. End quarter. Score: Tech, 0; Davidson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER

Hill gained four yards through center, Harlan two yards over right guard, and Strupper one yard through center. Guyon then
punted 45 yards to Flowers, who returned 14 yards. Davidson's ball on their 45-yard line. Burns ran for 27 yards
around left end. Guyon first missed him but overtook him on Tech’s 22-yard line. Flowers fumbled but recovered, losing four
yards. Flowers gained seven yards around right end. He then drop-kicked from the 28-yard line, scoring three points on Tech.
Hill kicked off 50 yards to Burns, who returned 20 yards to Davidson's 30-yard line. Burns smashed the line and
gained 11 yards. Grey punted 40 yards to Strupper, who returned 15 yards to Tech’s 40-yard line. Hill failed to
gain through center. Elliott threw Harlan for a three-yard loss. Hill made seven yards (Continued on page 6)

Bulletin

Davidson College Has Begun Military Training

Kaiser: Mein Gott! I Am Ruined.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 17, 1917.

T. W. Hawkins Wins Singles Championship

Winners of Doubles Will Probably Be Challenged.

During the past week the following singles matches have been played: Spence and Kennedy played a tight match in which
service, aces and sharp volleying featured. Spence won 6-8, 6-4, 7-5. Spence next played E. A. Woods for the position
of finalist. From start to finish the men played defensive tennis. The first set was only decided after 26 games
had been played. Many were surprised that Woods finally captured the match 14-12, 6-3, 1-6, 6-3. In the lower flight
E. G. Lilly won from Barnett by default, but lost to Cunningham 6-4, 1-6, 6-2. Hawkins won from W. F.
Hall 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. An exciting match was expected between Hawkins and Cunningham. Hawkins showed from the start he meant
to win and played the most spectacular tennis of the tournament. He served well, taking the net and making his
smashes count for aces with remarkable regularity. Cunningham played a little below form. Hawkins won 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. E. A.
Woods and Hawkins played the finals on Monday. Each man relied on placing as the main offensive move. In the
service Woods was decidedly weak, while Hawkins served well, making a total of 14 service aces. Woods changed from the
defensive in the third set and won it 3-6. Hawkins came back strong in the fourth set, winning it 6-1.
The final score was 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. By his victory Hawkins wins the championship in singles and also the
right to pick his man and challenge J. H. Millen and W. M. Jones to determine the doubles team. This
will be played within the next few days.

Probable Line-Up of V. P. I.Team Davidson Described as One of the South's Strongest Teams. Davidson's game with V. P.
I. next Saturday will be one of the most interesting of the season. The Techs had one of the strongest
teams in the South last year, and this year’s team is showing up well. Four varsity men: Younger, Gregory, Roden,
and Parrish, and other men from last year’s squad form the nucleus of the team. The new material also seems
to be of exceptional quality. The V. P. I. warriors literally swamped their opponents, Emory and Henry, last Saturday, by
the score of 50 to 6. Such opponents will call for the best fighting the Red and Black machine is
capable of. As for Davidson's condition for this game, it is only necessary to direct attention to her playing against
Georgia Tech. In fight and teamwork, this team is a worthy successor of the team last year. In a resume
of their schedule, the V. P. I. college paper speaks thus of the Davidson team: “One of our games is
with Davidson. This will be one of the biggest games that V. P. I. has ever played, for Davidson has
one of the strongest teams in the South.” The probable line-up of the Techs will be: Powers and Roden, ends;
Parish (Capt.) and Rangeley, tackles; McNeill and Leater, guards; Curry, center; Bock, quarterback; Benner and Wiegel, halfbacks, and Crisp, fullback;
with Wiel, Charles, Godsey, Harwick, Lybrook, Ward, Thornton, Younger.

No. 6 Dr. T. W. Lingle Writes of His Trip Was In the Bay of Biscay on the 13th of
September.

THE DAVIDSON VANGUARD FOR FRANCE

Today we are thinking of the opening of the session of 1917-8 at Davidson College, the assembling in the chapel,
registration, assigning of lessons, and meeting of old friends. While personally regretting our absence from the familiar scenes and friends,
we rejoice that we are approaching France, where we shall no doubt find a field of service in which we
can do our bit in the winning of the war—the one task of the American people at the present hour,
that overshadows all other tasks combined. On board is another Davidson man—W. C. Doub Kerr, for the past two years
a graduate student in Romance Languages in the University of Chicago. We are strong, going over not only to carry
on Y. M. C. A. work among American soldiers, but at the invitation of the French Government, to extend the
work among French troops in the camps and well up to the battle line held by the French from St.
Quentin to the Swiss border. Others have preceded us and hundreds more will follow. Those of us who speak French
will be assigned to work among French troops “somewhere in France.” Aboard also are 52 Quakers, all college men, under
Professor Bobbitt, of Haverford College, who will engage in reconstruction work in desolated districts. Red Cross women for hospitals and
canteens, engineers, field service men, aviation men, both Americans and French, postal service men who are going to establish mail
service right up to trenches to be held by Americans, diplomats, purchasers, detectives mingle freely, all with a purpose. Two
sisters of Secretary Lansing, booked for Red Cross work, grace the captain's table. A glance at the husky field service
men from the far West convinces me that they will carry the ammunition to the French troops holding front line
trenches, if it can be carried there. Our Y. M. C. A. group includes businessmen, secretaries, ministers of wide experience,
and educators ranging from the dean of the graduate school of the University of Missouri to recent graduates of Harvard.
One of them, Mr. Latture, a most substantial young man, boasts of a new wife (alas! left in Virginia) who
is none other than the sister of our own Professor Fulton. We are in the danger zone now, and every
precaution is taken for safety. Men are standing at the guns fore and aft (the famous French 75's), watchmen with
glasses are scanning the surface day and night, the sub-chaser is abroad and often seen. No gleam of light from
our ship is visible at night, while boats and life belts are ready. Other Davidson men are at sea on
other vessels and will soon be in France in large numbers. Count on us to do our part. Bay of
Biscay, nearing France, September 13.

Miller, McKann, Matthews, Yates, and Robinson ready to take their places. The fact that “Monk” Younger, ex-'19, is starring for
V. P. I. now for the second year will add interest to the game.

Dr. T. W. Lingle will address where mail Avenue Montaigne Permanent me: Paris.

ALUMNUS: Have You Sent In That $1.25 for Your Davidsonian This Year?
