The DAVIDSONIAN, May 9, 1917

THE FOUNDERS’ PLATE

SPRING OF ALUMNI GYMNASIUM 1912 .......... 677.00

A word to Davidson's Alumni about the new Alumni Gymnasium, now being erected.

A study of the appended table will show what classes have subscribed $500 or more, the payment of which will place the name of that class on the founders’ plate. There are 12 such classes. There are five classes (1876, '98, '80, '85, and 1915), which will be represented by the name of one of their members giving $500, and one class (1875) which will be represented by two such names. The class of 1886 has two such names of individuals, and 1906 has one, but enough more subscribed by other members of these classes to put the class as a whole on the plate also. In the light of this list and these facts, I suggest that members of the classes make the effort to determine whether or not their class can be “brought across” before it is necessary to order the plate during the coming summer. But it will require prompt action. Probably other individuals may now wish to have their names individually on the plate. We hope so.

While the full $100,000 was subscribed, the Alumni have, as seen below, not subscribed enough to entirely defray the cost of their building. Is it possible that with times as prosperous as they are we shall have to call on outsiders to complete the Alumni building? The cost of building has gone up immensely and all the time we really need $5,000 more than the $75,000 to get as good and complete a plant as we expected to get when the campaign was started and the cost estimated. Because of this, we have decided we could not complete the swimming pool. The Faculty and students think it wiser.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tenn.
Offers a complete three-year Law Course
Write for Catalogue

Gilmer Moore Co.
Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill

Johnson & Potts
L. B. LONG
‘24 Hour Delivery’
Seed, Wheat, Rye, Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES
BOOKS-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES

Brown & Brother
Something good to eat

224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St. PhiladelphiaTo get a gymnasium large enough for our needs, rather than to have a smaller one with a swimming pool. Everyone regrets this necessity, but the rise in the price of building makes it necessary. If, however, we could raise an additional $5,000, the swimming pool could be put in at once, and one gentleman said to the President of the College that if this was done he would give an additional $500. We leave it to you, Davidson Alumni. Let us hear from you quickly and let us all, as loyal sons, rally to the undertaking and share with our brothers the honor of putting the first Alumni building on the old campus. Send checks or pledges to Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer, Davidson, N.C., with your class year marked on them (graduating year, whether you graduated or not), and do it quickly.

R. M. Mclver, Cashier of Bank
C. L. Grey, Davidson, N.C.
Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Quickest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
A. S. Potts, Agent

Tr. Rumple, Charlotte, N.C., President of the Alumni.
Wm. J. Martin, President of the College.

Save your Shoe Repair Work

Post Script: In spite of “war prices” we have been able to retain the building of full size and have contracted for the building and heating. We have had to leave out some things, but they can be added later. We have not enough money pledged to put in as much plumbing as is needed. We ought to raise at least a thousand dollars additional at once, and much better, raise fifteen hundred. We can easily do it if all will help when help is really needed. Do not wait, but send in additional amounts if you have subscribed before, or a good amount if you have not. Let us have the gymnasium for the students.

Amount pledged by classes to date, December 1, 1916:
CLASS PLEDGED
TOWN $150.00
1916 $65.00
1915 $636.00
Total $20,461.99

SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Johnson & Potts, Agents
27 Chambers
2 Rumple

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

*$500 pledged by one man.
**$500 pledged by each of two men.

AVERAGE AGE OF CLASSES HAS BEEN COMPILED

Now is the time when the question is often asked, “How old are you?” The following table gives the average ages of the students composing the various classes at Davidson:
Masters 22.47
Seniors 21.36
Juniors 20.09
Sophomores 19.60
Freshmen 18.73

TO BE AWARDED AT COMMENCEMENT

This year at Commencement, the first of the Alumni Association medals will be awarded. This medal is to be annually awarded to the member of the Freshman class making the highest average in the class for the year. As funds have been established for the perpetuation of this medal, there will be an opportunity opened to the members of the Freshman class every year to win the high honor which this medal represents.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Gilbert & Patterson, Agents

SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.
CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms