we The DAVIDSONIAN. May 2, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

The Staff
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

Management
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. F. McClerkin, W. T. Johnson, Jr., C. W. Foreman, R. T. Liston, J. B. Woods, T. E. Guy, D. W. Roberts, W. B. Sullivan, S. Price, L. G. Calhoun, W. Love, W. T. Dunlap, and D. M. Orgain.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

THE BLANKET FEE.
The Blanket Fee scheme will soon see its birthday. It has done great things for our student body—especially as far as the publications are concerned. Every student gets his volume of Quips and Cranks. The Magazine is no longer the protégé of the literary societies. It has a wider circulation and is read by a larger appreciative list of readers. Then the college paper comes in—every student gets it—and gets it at a loss of about 15 cents per subscription to The Davidsonian. Next year the price of this paper will be $1.25. We are not doing this merely to keep pace with the high cost of living. It is a matter of necessity. We cannot give to you the same paper for the same price. The ideal to which we strive is to give you about thirty issues of a six-page paper, and to give you a six-page paper in every number. Neither is the price being raised as a money proposition. This is under the control of the student body, and we do not seek to make excess funds. But we must have the paper on a firm financial basis—hence the rise in price. It has been possible at the present price to only partially issue a six-page edition throughout the year. The circulation manager is planning to greatly enlarge our subscription list and to carry the name of Davidson to new fields where it is now partially known. We trust that individual students will aid him in this extension work. And we further trust that the alumni will give us their continued support.

THE MUSICAL HOUR.
The musical hour on next Friday afternoon in Shearer Hall, beginning at 5:30, is the result of the synthesis of ideas. From the library we received the idea of “campus singing.” From the Forum we were asked about the new college song. On last Friday afternoon we heard the willingness of the band to furnish some good music. Next Friday the band and orchestra will give a free concert. There will also be some selections from the quartet. The new college song will be practiced and patriotic songs will be sung by the whole gathering. Students and townspeople are urged to be there promptly at 5:30 and take part in this delightful hour. One thing included in an ideal scheme of education is music. To a great extent here this is lacking and is the fault of the student. At least, in the future it will be. The band wants to do all it can to remedy this. Now it is evident that we should back it up—back it up for two reasons—because we need a band and it cannot exist without support, and we should support it because its function is altruistic, it aims to furnish what is lacking in our own education. We are glad to quote “Eddie” Childs when he says: “One thing we need to bring college spirit to what it should be is to have a band!” There is no reason why we should not meet for an hour a week from now until Commencement. The band will cooperate. Then let’s all come and learn some new songs and invigorate our patriotic souls by singing the time-honored airs. This is free to all and you are urged to come.

We often complain that the past was not careful in leaving a record of itself for the future. This criticism is just. We cherish the history of our societies, of our college, and of our Nation—this history is almost sacred. How glad we would be if in some far-away, dusty nook or corner a thread of history of Davidson could be found which is not known. How glad we would be if among the themes of the English department an autobiography of President Wilson could be found. We are not a provident people. WithAll newspaper records and other literary legacies which will exist a century from now will be hazy. The Senior doubtless thinks he has enough to do. A great deal is required for graduation. But one important thing he does not do—he does not leave an autobiography. It would be a good plan if this was required. It should be of a sufficient number of words to give an account of his life. When the present Junior class were Freshmen, they were required to write an autobiography. Doubtless these are filed away with the records of the English department. This was an excellent idea to have them written. But how much better it would be if each present Junior at the end of his Senior year would get and rewrite it. He could give some of the determining influences of his life which he did not know existed when it was originally written. The attitude a college man takes toward the world during his course will, to a large extent, with a few rare exceptions, determine what his future shall be. The college should have a record of his pre-college life as well as his college life. And the latter record should be an exposition of the influences his associates, the faculty, and the training have exerted upon him. The college record shows the record, but not the mind. Who knows whose biography will be written? It would be good for a man to think about what is making the man of him. Then when the biographer of a Davidson man went to work, he would have an invaluable source of first-hand information. Let's make this criticism of being a non-provident people an unjust one.

DECLAMATION CONTEST AT TOWN COMMENCEMENT

Commencement exercises of the Public School will be held on the night of May 17, 1917. At this time there will be a declamation contest between eight boys and girls. These were selected in a recent preliminary contest and are as follows: Annie Lois Barnett, Jessaman Brown, Sara Hamilton, and Martha Hamilton were the girls, and Craighead Alexander, John Barnett, McDowell Richards, and Windsor Thompson among the boys. Two medals will be given, one for the boys and one for the girls. Diplomas will be awarded at the close of the exercises. The speaker for the occasion has not been chosen, but more than likely will be some member of the college faculty.

Just A Little Different

Of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a "look-around-more" disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office. We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer absolutely. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Let us quote you prices on any printing that is ordinarily—or extraordinarily—used in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
Davidson Representative
216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643

A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, Representative

Baseballs, Shoes, Gloves
Tennis Balls, Tennis Rackets
Tennis Nets & Tennis Shoes
at The Commissary
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

FOR THAT FORD TRIP...
see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

GORDON-24 in. ARROW form COLLAR
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC. MAKERS

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South

BOOKS - STATIONERY - NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.

Quality Counts—
That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.
Alex. Taylor & Co.
The Commissary
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS

Spring has brought the regular improvement of the campus. Dead limbs, reminders of winter, have been removed from the trees. Other minor improvements along with the trimming of the trees have added much to the beauty of the campus. With the cooperation of all the students in keeping waste paper from it, the campus will continue to be one of the greatest attractions of Davidson.