| FORUM | It is a splendid thing that the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and his “friend” have been so watchful over the student body and such close observers of its component parts. This friend is referred to as “a close observer of college and dormitory spirit,” and yet—I bet he rooms on the first or second floor South Wing Chambers! They have made the marvelous discovery that will rival the discovery of the arctic explorer Cook in importance, that at Davidson there is “the student body” and those who have “segregated themselves” under the tin of Rumple. It is a sure fact that neither the editor nor his “friend” have visited any other dormitory for any length of time since the opening of college, and yet it is up to each one of us social outcasts to learn from such close observers of college and dormitory life how to establish ourselves among the elite of the college. But before we of Rumple begin to become “a part of the student body,” “by a more general mingling with the students of the other domiciles,” we would like to know if the entrance requirements will be to take storage in a “Squirrel’s Den” or “Bee Gum Tree” in South Wing Chambers. A Rumpleite.

THE DAMAGE COMMITTEE

After going through the experience of paying the fall term fees, it is very pleasant to reflect that at least two dollars of the amount paid stands a chance of being returned into our pockets. This amount, unlike the regular fees, was placed with the college bursar merely as a deposit, to cover any damage that may be made on college property by ourselves during the year. After the amount of the damage has been deducted, the remainder will be returned, on a pro rata basis as heretofore, to each student. In order that this amount may be as large as possible, it is to the interest of every member of the student body to see that as little damage as possible is done.

In spite of every precaution, however, there will be some damage—perhaps several hundred dollars’ worth—and though the amount may be greatly lessened, we can depend upon it, there will be some damaged property that will have to be paid for. The question then that is most vital to our interest is, who will pay for the damage? As is well known, Davidson has for a number of years been under the Honor System, and as a part of this system every man is on his honor to report any damage that he is witness of to the proper student authorities. When so reported, the damage will be charged to the man who made it (or broke it, to be more exact), but when not reported it will be charged to the whole student body and will come out of our own pockets.

Year before last, 80 cents per man was deducted for damage and the balance returned (though a majority of the student body contributed it to athletics, because of a special appeal made by Coach). Last year the amount of damage was less, and $1.40 was returned (though a large number of students gave theirs to the flag pole). This year most of us feel a greater need of funds than usual and it is probable that we will be able to reduce the amount of unreported damage still more and so get a larger part of our deposit back than ever before. There is no reason why this cannot be done. As announced in chapel, each class has two representatives on the committee, and reports of all damaged college property should be made to one of these men. The Damage Committee for this year is as follows:

Seniors: W. G. Humphrey, 79 Chambers; W. C. Cumming, 14 Rumple.
Juniors: J. T. Maddrey, 17 Chambers; E. G. Lilly, 15 Watts.
Sophomores: J. F. Byrd, 5 Georgia; D. M. Chalmers, 9 Rumple.
Freshmen: T. H. Wilson, 22 Georgia; J. R. Boulware, Jr., 20 Watts.

GOING BACKWARD

“Let thine alms sweat in thy hands till thou knowest to whom thou shouldst give,” says an old Christian book. To give is indeed good, but to give justly and properly is better. Anyone can succumb to the appeals of chance charity; the true giver is he who devotes his gifts to that cause which will afford the greatest mental and spiritual return.

These somewhat philosophical remarks are brought about by a rumor, a rumor to do away with the Davidson College Magazine, and give that money to the Red Cross. At first, this seems a commendable suggestion, and patriotic. But the more you look at it, the more does the praiseworthiness fade away, and the more does the patriotism seem misguided.

The Magazine has been here about thirty years. Go back to some of the old numbers, and you will not find immortal literature, but you will find among the names of its editors and contributors the names of men who now stand high in the world. Go and look at some of those names, and you will see that the Magazine has meant something in the past; it can mean something today; it does mean something to any man who wants to learn to think and to write. Some men may not care much for the Magazine, but shall we estimate its value by their opinion? Nothing ought to be valued in terms of those who do not appreciate it. Do you judge the usefulness of a college education by the opinions of men who do not believe in a college education? Do you judge the value of the library by the opinion of men who never get a book out of the library? Some may say we must do something for our country.Could not we make more money to give to our country by working than by coming to Davidson? If so, why are we at Davidson? Because we believe that the training that we receive here will ultimately make us more useful to our country. We believe that this training will make us more valuable in the future than we could possibly be in the present. Such is the belief that brings us to college, and it is on such a belief that the Magazine makes its claim for existence. It aims to fit us for that future usefulness by developing our powers of thought and imagination and by training us to use the English language more clearly and more forcefully. Such is the purpose of the Magazine. Do away with the Magazine and you will leave the college the poorer thereby. It is a simple question: Will you stand behind Davidson College and Davidson College activities, or will you go backward?

W. Love.

NEW BOOKS.
The following new war books are in the library: “A Student in Arms,” Hankey; “My Second Year of the War,” Palmer; “Between St. Dennis and St. George,” Hueffer; “War of Democracy” (The Allies’ Statement); “War Against War,” Collins.

JITNEY SCHEDULE.
The jitney that is now in operation between Mooresville and Charlotte passes through Davidson on the following schedule: To Charlotte, 8:35 a.m. and 2:35 p.m.; to Mooresville, 11:25 a.m. and 5:25 p.m.

STATISTICS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS
Considering the influence of the war on the colleges of this country, Davidson has this year a very full student body. Up to the present time, 303 students have been enrolled. Of these, 107 are Freshmen, 83 Sophomores, 61 Juniors, 50 Seniors, and two M.A. men. Many of the students have decided upon their vocations. They are classified as follows: Ministry, 56; law, 16; medicine, 44; business, 34; engineering, 9; farming, 7; mission work, 7; teaching, 4; and chemists, 4. All students, except twelve, are members of some church. There are 256 Presbyterians, 18 Methodists, 9 Baptists, 3 Episcopalians, and one each of the Reformed, Moravian, Lutheran, and Christian Apostolic Churches. The representation by states is as follows: North Carolina, 170; South Carolina, 44; Georgia, 21; Tennessee, 16; Virginia, 12; Mississippi, 9; Arkansas, 5; Florida, 7; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 1; Maryland, 1; Alabama, 1; Oklahoma, 1; and Missouri, 1. Foreign countries: China, 6; Persia, 1; Japan, 1; Brazil, 1. The large number of students from foreign countries and from other states than North Carolina should be noted as proof of the widespread reputation of the college. Davidson students come from lands all around the globe and likewise her alumni can be found in every continent.

STAFFS OF THE ANNUAL AND THE MAGAZINE
The staff for the 1918 volume of “Quips and Cranks,” as recently announced by the editor-in-chief, H. T. Lilly, is as follows: W. G. Humphrey, W. C. Cumming, L. M. Currie, J. J. Love, and J. H. Miller. R. P. Richardson, '18, is business manager, and J. H. Miller, '19, assistant manager. Two other assistant managers have not as yet been selected. The editor-in-chief of the “Davidson College Magazine” for this year is L. M. Thomas, Jr., of the Senior class. J. A. Thames is business manager, and the staff is composed of W. C. Cumming, H. B. Fraser, and L. A. Chambliss. The last two named having failed to return to college this fall, their successors will be chosen at an early date.

COLLISION TAKES PLACE ON SOUTH MAIN STREET
On last Wednesday night, Marsh Potts and M. M. Hampton, both residents of Davidson, ran into each other at the corner on South Main Street, near the garage. Mr. Potts, who was driving an automobile, did not see Mr. Hampton, who was in a hack, until he was a few feet from him. Mr. Potts, intending to stop at a store near the corner, turned to the left. Mr. Hampton, not knowing this, turned to the right. Neither party was seriously injured in the collision.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB MET WITH MRS. GREY
The regular meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club was held last week with Mrs. C. L. Grey. There were ten members and three visitors present. “The Ottoman Empire” is now being studied. A very interesting paper was read by Miss Julia Johnson on “Mesopotamia.” The meeting was one of the most pleasant which has been held in some time. The next meeting will be held with Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero - Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

L. C. BRAND, 77 Chambers

ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON
INVITE YOU TO CALL ON THEM FOR
Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis Oxfords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.00; Silk Hose, 50c., and many other things that you may need in the clothing line. See if we haven’t what you want. See our new line of Stock Suits $18 to $22.50

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

MISS MYRTLE BOOE WEDS LIEUTENANT DUSENBURY
On last Friday evening, September 28, Lieut. Gowan Dusenbury, of Concord, N. C., a member of the Piedmont Battery, was married to Miss Myrtle Booe, of Davidson. The couple went to Charlotte to have the ceremony performed. From Charlotte, they went to Greenville, where Lieutenant Dusenbury is in camp.