The DAVIDSONIAN October 24, 1917

News and Happenings of the Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About the Town People

Mr. J. S. Worth and daughter, Miss Frances, have gone to Fort Oglethorpe, Ga., to visit Mrs. Worth’s son, who
is stationed there.

The Book Club will meet with Mrs. F. L. Jackson Friday afternoon. At this meeting, Mrs. C. L. Grey will
read a paper on Syria.

Dr. Richards is conducting a series of services at Bethel Church this week.

Mrs. Wharey, one of Davidson's oldest inhabitants, celebrated her seventy-fifth birthday on October 21. Friday night, the members of the
Junior Band, organized by her husband while pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, came down and gave her
a surprise party. These friends presented her with a beautiful pen as a token of their love and respect.

Last Thursday afternoon, Mrs. Wooten gave a party at which the approaching marriage of her daughter, Miss Sarah Wooten, to
Mr. Johnston, of Mooresville, on November 14, was announced.

Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood spent the weekend in Statesville.

It is with regret that we announce the illness of Mrs. Hill for the past week.

Professor Reed visited his father, Dr. R. C. Reed, in Columbia, the latter part of the week.

Dr. Martin attended the funeral of Mr. Henry Malloy, '74, father of Harry Malloy, '15, Saturday at Laurinburg.

Miss Jean McMillan, of Charlotte, visited her mother, Mrs. J. A. McMillan, last week.

Mrs. Arthur Finley, of North Wilkesboro, was the weekend guest of Dr. and Mrs. Martin. She was visiting her sons,
Messrs. A. G. and A. C. Finley.

Dr. J. M. McConnell attended a family reunion at Chester, S. C., last week.

Mrs. J. W. McConnell has gone to Camp Jackson, where her husband, Capt. J. W. McConnell, is located.

Mrs. L. P. Allison is visiting her nieces, the Misses Young, this week.

A Mission Study Class has been organized among the ladies of the local Presbyterian Church. The class meets at the
manse every Thursday morning.

Dr. Fulton visited in Atlanta last week.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

The following schedule is the latest one announced by T. W. Clark, manager of the football team:

October 27—V. M. I., at Charlotte, N. C.
November 3—Furman University, at Greenville, S. C.
November 10—Auburn, at Atlanta, Ga., or Third Montana Regiment, at Charlotte, N. C.
November 17—Wake Forest, at Greensboro, N. C.
November 22—Wofford, at Davidson, N. C.
November 29—Clemson, at Charlotte, N. C.

The Guilfordian—At the first meeting of the Science Club at Guilford College, an able address was delivered by Professor Rogers
on the subject of Genetics. At this meeting, the officers for the coming year were elected and several new members
were admitted.

The Old Gold and Black—Military drill has been instituted at Wofford and the men seem highly pleased and interested in
their work. The officers of the Twenty-seventh Division, stationed at Camp Wadsworth, Spartanburg, S. C., are detailed for duty at
Wofford as commandants. All speak highly of the character of drilling now going on.

The Furman Hornet—The staff of The Hornet, at Furman University, want their paper sent to the front, as they place
a lofty and grand notice of that fact at the top of their paper.

The Brackety-Ack—Roanoke College opened late in September with about 150 students. The first mass meeting and “Rat Parade” were carried
off in fine style and all indications point toward a prosperous year. A long article presented the college publications in
an instructive and entertaining manner and asked the loyal support of the student body.

The Sun Dial—The students at Randolph-Macon Woman's College are interested in fixing up Christmas packages for our men across the
sea.the waters. They are to be filled with all things conceivable for the comfort and entertainment of our soldiers. These
packages should be collected and sent in to the nearest Red Cross chapter before October 31 in order to receive
passage on the Christmas ship.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

The following new books are to be found in the library: "Pan-Germanism," by Versus Christendom, which is a conversation of
a neutral; also "The Coming Democracy," by Herman Fernau, which was written because he was a German; "A Woman's Journey
Thru the Philippines," by Florence Kimball Russell, is a very interesting one. The best of all is "The Early Life
and Letters of Gen. Thomas J. Jackson," better known as "Stonewall" Jackson, written by his nephew, Thomas Jackson Arnold, and
is a gift to the library by the writer. Other new books are "Our Fellow Shakespeare," Bridges; "The England of
Shakespeare," Ditchfield; "Shakespeare’s Environment," C. C. Stopes; "Shakespeare's Workmanship," Quiller-Couch. "The Ruhleben Prison Camp," by Cohen, is the story of
nineteen months internment in one of the one hundred and fifty prison camps in Germany, where more than 3,000 British
civilians are confined.

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
224 S. TRYON ST.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service — BRADY is the Man to Do it

GILBERT & ADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
ARROW COLLAR
Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete Line of Official Fraternity Jewelers & College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Low Prices

$500.00 REWARD
Five Hundred Dollars Reward will be paid by the Southern Railway System for the arrest and conviction of the person
or persons who removed spikes, bolts and angle bars, resulting in derailment of passenger train No. 26, near Huntersville, N.
C., Tuesday morning, July 27th, 1915. All communications pertaining to this subject should be addressed to J. W. Connelly, Chief
Special Agent, Southern Railway System, Charlotte, N. C. If arrested, wire him or Sheriff N. W. Wallace, Charlotte, N. C.
W. N. FOREACRE, General Manager.

Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis Oxfords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.00; Silk Hose, 50c., and many other things that you may need
in the clothing line. See if we haven't what you want. See our line of Black Army Shoes, $5.50

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association by backing it. See our new line of Stock Suits. Let us do your SOFT COLLARS
up on the New Steam Press at the Old Place, and see if you are not 100 percent better satisfied.
Well, it will! Ask someone who has tried it. The Charlotte Laundry, A. S. POTTS, Agent, 43 Chambers. Laundry collected
every Thursday night.

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies. Better Work, Doing more Work and Attractive Prices. Armour
Bros. & Thompson, 17 Years at the Same Place. Tobe Johnson invites you to call on them for clothing.

"The Letters and Diary of Alan Seeger" will be read with appreciation by those students who are familiar with the
poems of this young American who died in France.

The Book Lovers’ Club held its regular meeting on October 12 at the home of Mrs. C. L. Grey. Mrs.
Worth presented a very interesting paper on "The Characteristics of the Americans," and Mrs. Jackson read an instructive paper on
"The Persecutions of Armenians." After the meeting, a social hour was held. Several visitors were present and added much to
the occasion. Delicious refreshments were served by the hostess and the meeting adjourned to meet with Mrs. F. L. Jackson
on Friday, October 26.

You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
30 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
