The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 21, 1917. No. 19

Guilford and Charlotte Defeated By Davidson
Red and Black Quint Adds Two More Victories

GUILFORD GAME.
The Davidson quint defeated Guilford Friday night on the Statesville floor by a score of 19 to 18. The game
was loosely played and the floor work and shooting by both teams were below the standard. Davidson started off strong
and piled up a substantial lead in the first half. Guilford staged a comeback in the last period and the
score was tied time and again. With the score standing at 18 to 18 in the last few seconds of
play, a foul was called on Guilford, and “Al” Reese, equal to the emergency, caged a pretty basket for the
deciding point. For Davidson, the work of Reese and Hengeveld was of the highest order, while Zachary and Massey played
strong games for Guilford. The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. GUILFORD.
Childs (2) .......... Seamans (2)
King (2) ............ Smith (2)
Forwards.
Hengeveld (6) ...... Zachary (8)
Center.
Reese (9) .......... Walser (2)
Walker ............ Massey (4)
Guards.

Substitutions: Dean for Walker. Referee: Holding, of Statesville.

CHARLOTTE GAME.
The Red and Black completed a four-game series with Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Saturday night, winning 36 to 14.
Davidson has won all four games. The game was not as snappy as the former games, but beautiful passing in
the last half enabled the Red and Black to pile up 19 points to Charlotte's 5. Hengeveld and Reese were
the main point-getters for Davidson, while King’s floor work was of high order, he at times rushing down the floor
and recovering the ball from the Y. M. C. A.’s territory. Propst and Marsh played a good game for Charlotte.
The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. Y. M. C. A.
King (8) ........... Propst (4)
Childs (6) ......... Marsh (6)
Forwards.
Hengeveld (12) .... Howell (3)
Center.
Reese (10) ........ Crook
Walker ........... Beadle (1)
Guards.

Substitutions: Dean (2) for Walker, Wood for King. Fouls: Reese 4 out of 6, Marsh none out of 1, Howell
1 out of 6, Crook none out of 3, Beadle 1 out of 2. Referee: Graham. Time of halves: 20
minutes.

A short trip has been arranged for the Scrub basketball team. The team leaves this morning, playing the Winston Highs
tonight, and playing the Mooresville and Charlotte High Schools Thursday and Friday nights, respectively. A game will be staged on
the Hill Saturday with Belmont High School. Those composing the squad making the trip are L. C. McAckill, R. D.
Hall, W. Hall, L. McAlister, Alexander, Douglas, Potts, Davenport, and Manager Saunders.

Interesting Lectures Given Last Saturday
Mr. R. D. W. Connor Speaks On An Interesting Subject

The student body of Davidson College and the town people were given a treat last Saturday, when Mr. R. D.
W. Connor, of Raleigh, delivered two highly interesting and instructive lectures in Shearer Hall on “The Racial Elements Which Have
Entered Into the Population of North Carolina.” Mr. Connor is Secretary of the North Carolina Literary and Historical Association, and
his thorough knowledge of the subject on which he spoke, combined with his pleasing delivery, made his lectures entertaining indeed.

The racial elements which Mr. Connor discussed were the English, the Scotch Highlander, the Scotch-Irish, and the German. In his
afternoon address, he took up the first two, and at night he spoke of the contributions of the Scotch-Irish and
German elements to North Carolina's history. A very comprehensive view of the early history of North Carolina, with the life
and manners and characteristics of the colonial settlers, was ably shown.

FIRST LECTURE.
The speaker showed that the population of North Carolina is a composite one, and we are not one people, but
an offspring of the four great elements that influenced the settlement and development of the State—the English, the Scotch Highlander,
the Scotch-Irish, and the German. The English were the first settlers, and by purchasing lands from the Indians, which they
might have seized, they laid the foundations of the colony in peace and good will. These people settled in the
eastern part of the State, particularly in the Cape Fear section. The early struggles of these colonists were pointed out,
how they overcame the Indians and pirates, wrested a representative government from the lord proprietors, and laid the foundations of
a strong government on the English ideals of home life, government, and industry. The English settler was a prosy, common-sense
individual who possessed all the qualities for the conquest of the wilderness and the founding of a commonwealth. The life
and manners of these people were shown, and the speaker summarized by stating that their contribution was largely political.

THE SCOTCH HIGHLANDER.
The Scotch Highlander offers a great contrast to the Englishman in character and temperament. He is not so prosaic, but
impulsive. Their home in the old country was vividly described, and their peculiar ideas of government and society, which make
them a people apart. They were great fighters. Economic and political causes drove themto North Carolina, where they settled on
the upper Cape Fear. Their institutions finally had to give way to the English forms, and the English tongue also
triumphed over the Gaelic. These people have distinguished themselves throughout our history and have proven strong and true in every
crisis. The names of many illustrious men descended from this element were called to mind.

(Continued on page 4)

Juniors and Seniors
News and Happenings
Play to Scoreless Tie
Of The Week in Town
Class Football Championship Still Undecided

On last Tuesday, the Juniors and Seniors prolonged the class football season by playing a no-score tie. The game was
hotly contested from the start, but neither goal was in positive danger at any time. The ball see-sawed up and
down the field from start to finish and exchanges of punts were frequent. The Juniors suffered telling losses by injuries
early in the game but managed to hold their own. For the Seniors, the work of Keesler and Ratchford was
of the stellar variety. Jones, Clark, and Richardson put up strong games for the Juniors. The line-up was as follows:

JUNIORS. POSITION. SENIORS.
Therrell.........RE...... Ormond
Kennedy......... RT... . McKinnon
Fraser.......... RG....... Brown
T. W. Clark..... C....... Miller
Conoly.......... LG........ Mann
Finley.......... LT...... Hughes
Richardson (C)..LE...... Mattison
Jones........... QB.... McKeithan
Fowle........... RH.... W.P. Keesler (C)
Armistead....... LH....... Craig
Patterson....... FB....... Ratchford

Referee, Coach Fetzer; Umpire, Burns; Headlinesman, Walker; Timekeepers, Paisley and King. Substitutions: Juniors, Thames for Therrell, Mebane for Fraser, Fraser
for Conoly, Overton for Armistead; Seniors, Rankin for Brown, Price for Craig.

DEBATERS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO TEAMS

The composition of the two inter-collegiate debating teams chosen last Monday night has been decided. G. C. Bellingrath and W.
H. Neal will represent Davidson against Emory College, in the debate to be held at Agnes Scott College in the
latter part of April. R. H. Ratchford and J. A. Thames will debate Roanoke College, at Salem, Va., on April
20th. The query for the Emory debate is, “Resolved, That employers and employees of public service corporations should be compelled
to settle their disputes by compulsory arbitration,” and the subject to be discussed with Roanoke is, “Resolved, That the United
States should adopt a policy of universal compulsory military service.” Davidson will defend the negative in both debates. L. H.
Fikel will serve as alternate for the team against Roanoke, and R. W. Cousar is alternate for the Emory debate.

Owing to a mistake, the following section of men was left out of the list of speakers for Junior Speaking
published in last week’s Davidsonian. They are scheduled to speak last on Thursday evening, March 1.

H. B. Elliott, Davidson, N. C.: An American Investment.
A. C. Fairley, Laurinburg, N. C.: The Associated Press.
A. G. Finley, North Wilkesboro, N. C.: Wilson's Administration.
W. M. Fountain, Greenwood, Miss.: The New Profession.
J. L. Fowle (Phi), Washington, N. C.: Insured?

The Town People

Miss Gordon Baskerville has returned from a trip to Petersburg, Va. She will resume her private school this week.
* * *
Mr. Irwin Graham spent the weekend in Davidson.
* * *
The Southern Railway has put in a petition to have one of the trains taken off between Charlotte and Winston.
* * *
In honor of Professor Currie’s birthday, Mrs. Currie entertained the golf members of the faculty at dinner on Friday night.
The table decorations were of symbols and the menu printed in golf terms. After supper, the men played clock golf
in the dining room. The entertainment was a very unique and most delightful affair.
* * *
Mrs. Allison, of Concord, who has been sick at Miss Young’s, has sufficiently recovered to return to her home.
* * *
Miss Lula Grey has been at home this week with la grippe, but expects to return to Statesville College this
week.
* * *
Miss Ruth Blake, of Greenwood, is visiting Misses Jones and Roddey.
* * *
Mrs. Fulton and Mrs. Douglas are sick with la grippe.
* * *
Miss Jeanne MacMillan, from Charlotte, spent the weekend with her mother.
* * *
Miss Annie Jones entertained a few friends Saturday evening in honor of Miss Ruth Blake.
* * *
Miss Mary Lafferty has been elected president of the Women's Missionary Society for the following year.
* * *
Miss Fanny McBryde has gone to Florida for the remaining weeks of the winter.
* * *
The Civic Club is using Fiske and Fisher’s “How to Live” as a basis for its study. The program on
Tuesday was led by Miss Vinson, followed by a social half-hour and refreshments.
* * *
The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Lingle last Friday, the meeting being led by Mrs. Lingle. Miss Maud Vinson
read from “Queen’s Wister,” and a sketch of Richard Harding Davis was also read.

GYM NEWS.

The new gymnasium will soon be in actual construction. The preliminary steps are almost completed, the plans being now in
the hands of contractors. About the 1st of March, their bids will be considered by the committee and the contract
let. The plans for the heating plant are being improved by Mr. Smallwood, the architect, as the first plans were
unsatisfactory. This may cause some small delay in the letting of the contract.
