The DAVIDSONIAN, February 28, 1917

Shoe Opening | Literary Societies

The Gilmer-Moore Co. of Charlotte will have a complete line of shoes on display at No. 2 Rumple today. Let
us fit you.

JOHNSON & POTTS
No. 2 Rumple

Brown's
Something good to eat all the time
17 South Tryon

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank.
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest Quickest Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
W. L. Douglas, Agent
7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. S. PATTERSON

SCHEDULE.
There will be no meeting in either society on next Saturday night, owing to Junior Speaking.

Monday morning, March the 5th— Declamations and Orations:
Eumenean — Declamations: McCutcheon, McGirt, Potts and J. G. Richards. Orations: Morton, McCloy, Orgain and Patterson.
Philanthropic—Declamations: T. C. Stone, Foscue, Fleming, Lott, Roberts, Thomas and Boney. Orations: Bullock, Cumming and McDonald.

WEEKLY MEETINGS:
The subject of the debate in the Phi Society Saturday night was, "Resolved, That it is a wise policy for
the U. S. to declare war on Germany.” The affirmative was upheld by Pharr, Menzies, Chalmers, Calhoun and Fleming. Those
on the negative were Query, Tremain, McClure and Nisbet. The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative.

In the Monday morning meeting the following orations were given: Morton, “Divorce;” Davis, “Electricity;” Williamson, “Retribution in History;” Thames, “The
Progress of Prohibition,” and H. T. Lilly, “Germany in the Third Year of the War.” The declamations were: Freeman, “The
Crusade Against Christianity,” and Wilson, “The Duty of Literary Men to America.”

In the Eumenean Society Saturday night the affirmative of the debate was upheld by Howard, Keesler, Harrell and Flynn; the
negative by Allen, Fraser, Wrierson and Guy. The affirmative won the decision.

Eumenean Society, Monday morning: The declamations were: Woods, a selection from “Bob, Son of Battle;” Liston, “Address to Old Confederates,”
by Bob Taylor; Hollandsworth, a selection by the Lawyer, St. John. The orations were: “Natural Bridge,” by Hobson; “Single Standard,”
Hudson; “Infantile Paralysis,” Jenkins; “Motor Truck in Modern Warfare,” Bachman; “Blue Flowers,” Thomas; “A Plea for the Classics,” Humphrey.

SPECIAL SERVICE SUNDAY.
On next Sunday the Ministerial Band, Volunteer Band and the College Christian Endeavor Society will unite in a special meeting
to be held at 6:45, to which all the ladies attending Junior Speaking are cordially invited. The regular topic will
be used at the meeting, and it is hoped that not only the usual members will take part, but that
some of the ladies may see fit to participate, as is usual in Endeavor societies. There will be special music
under the direction of J. L. Fowle, and the meeting will be led by Geo. C. Bellingrath.

STUDENT LOSES MOTHER.
D. S. Epps, of the Sophomore class, was called home last Wednesday on account of the critical illness of his
mother. She died from an attack of typhoid fever Sunday afternoon. The sympathy of the entire student body goes with
Epps and his family in their bereavement.

The business manager of the Annual reports that all the material for the new Annual went to press Tuesday. The
volume will appear early in May. It is to have a blue binding stamped in gold.

At the request of the principal of the Mooresville High School, E. H. Eikel, E. H. Hamilton and T. J.
Mitchell, all of the Senior class, spent Monday afternoon in Mooresville acting as judges in the High School debate.

A PREREQUISITE.
The editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, in an editorial in the last issue, hits the nail squarely on the head when
he says that the majority of college students lack conviction on the questions of the day, especially on those which
confront them in college life. But there is something else lacking, something which must necessarily precede conviction, and that is
thought. After a period of four years in college a boy's head is full to overflowing with the thoughts of
others. The question is: Does he use these thoughts in...Arriving at a conviction on the great questions of the day
or does he follow the easier alternative of holding thoughts and facts until examination time and then allow them to
sink into oblivion? To follow the first course is to train the memory; to follow the second is to make
the man which the Twentieth Century demands—a thinking man. After all, the very purpose of college is to train men
to think. It is well to know all the thoughts of all the great thinkers; but there is something better
than all that—"to think yourself." If the man, with a college education, goes out into the world and fails—and there
are many who do—it is not because he does not know, but because he has not been trained to think.

After the regular debate in the Literary Society, an opportunity should be given to any member to express his opinion
or conviction on the question which has just been debated. After college days shall have ended, we will debate questions,
not for the training which we will acquire, but from a sense of conviction. Hence, right here at Davidson, after
we have debated a question for the practice which there is in it, for us, we should debate it according
as our conviction may dictate.

So much for convictions orally expressed. But a college man, if he would be symmetrically trained, must be able to
express his thoughts in writing as well as by word of mouth. The Freshmen English course, as at present constituted,
is a good medium for constructive thinking to the first-year men. Much freedom is allowed in the treatment of vital
questions. It seems to me that there should be one or two courses in each of the other years which
allow the same freedom of treatment.

---

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms.
For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Statesville, N.C.

Gilbert & Patterson, Agents
A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights, and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

---

In the Spring, many colleges give a holiday in honor of some alumnus or benefactor. On the 22nd of February,
all State universities celebrate in honor of the Father of our Country. Davidson has an alumnus of whom she is
fittingly proud. It would do us the greatest of honor to be the first to proclaim a holiday in his
memory. Why not have a Woodrow Wilson Day?

T. N. M.

POLITY CLUB MEETS.
At the meeting of the Polity Club last night, the book, “Japanese Expansion, and the American Policy,” was discussed by
W. C. Cumming. Cumming made an interesting and comprehensive talk, his main topic being the probability of a war between
the United States and Japan. The author of the book, Dr. Abbott, who was for several years a professor in
the Imperial University at Tokyo, thinks that such a war is highly improbable. He advances several strong arguments against such
a war, but declares that the most potent influence for the war is the war talk in our country.

Dr. S.—(In Fresh Bible)—What was the Promised Land?
Fresh—A land floating in milk and honey.

---

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N.C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

FORD TRIP to CHARLOTTE, MOORESVILLE - ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

---

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cash.
F. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

---

When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men
