SPRING is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for this Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found at the Gilmer Moore Co. Johnson & Potts 2 Rumple “24 Hour Delivery” Brown’s Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank L. GREY Davidson, N. C. C. Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S. Potts, Agent 2 Rumple Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson The DAVIDSONIAN, May 2, 1917 The Forum ATTENTION! Here is a question that I would like to ask, and if anyone can answer it, I will be only too glad: Is it best for all concerned for students to correct papers? If the professor writes out the correct answer so that it will be a guide to the student who corrects the papers, the student can only go by that one fixed set of answers, not being able to make any allowance at any place. The student does not know what was taught in the classroom, and although he may have taken the course in the past, and thinks that he knows what was brought out in class, too often makes a mistake, as the professor never follows a set plan of teaching, emphasizing this year what he only mentioned last year. If, on a review, questions are not answered just as the student who corrects the papers thinks that it was taught the year before, whereas it may be exactly what was taught and emphasized this year, the one correcting the papers marks off just because it was not as he thought that it was brought out in class, and as it most probably was taught the year he took the course. On the other hand, if the professor himself corrects the review papers, he knows exactly what he brought out and emphasized in the classroom, and, if there are any allowances to be made, he knows just how and where to make them. Take Bible, for instance: A set of correct answers are given to the student who grades the papers, and he has no alternative than to go exactly by those answers. In many instances, the answer written on the review paper is a sufficient and satisfactory answer; but it is not just the same as is given in the set made out by the professor, nor in exactly the same words. All that the student can do who is correcting the papers is to mark that answer wrong; whereas if the professor had had the paper, and had seen that the answer was given correctly, although in a little different wording from the way that he had put in the set of answers, he would have made that necessary allowance and graded the paper as correct. Take another study at random, say Biology: The professor in that subject does not do as the professor in Bible, writing out a set of answers that are to be used as a model in guiding the student who corrects the papers. The professor leaves the correcting entirely to the judgment of the student, which at times is sadly deficient, for the simple reason that the student does not know what was brought out in class. The student grades the papers according to the way that the subject was taught when he was taking it, whereas it might now be taught in a different way, things emphasized now that were not emphasized a year or two ago, and things that were emphasized a year or two ago, not being emphasized now. Thus, the system of grading used by the student is out of date, wrong, in other words. That is of course not his fault, but the fact remains that it goes pretty hard with the ones who are having their papers corrected, especially, since they answered the question exactly as it was given by the professor in the classroom. Again, it is a psychological fact that a student who corrects the review papers is more or less inclined to partiality. Allowances are made by him for other students who are his personal friends, are upper classmen, or who are honor roll men. This statement may be denied by some few, particularlythose who do the grading, but it is a fact, and cannot be disputed. Instances of this act are shown every month by some of the students who correct papers, although not shown by the same student every month. Some of the faults and limitations in the system of student grading have been shown. What are some of the good points? There is only one good point, or advantage that this system has, and that is that it gives some students the chance to earn money to help defray expenses. That is of course a very good, noble, and humane advantage, and may counterbalance all the oppositions and failures that may be brought against, or are in, this system. Some may say that it helps the professor, but does it? He does not have to go over the papers the first time, it is true, and is saved that much trouble, but he is continually being bothered after every review given by students who return their papers to him to be re-corrected. The professor would not have this trouble and inconvenience each month, and the students would not be dissatisfied by the grading, if the grading was done in the first place by the professor himself. I have made a cycle, and come back to where I started, and will close with the same question asked at the first: Should the system of student grading be abolished? INQUISITIVE.

AN ADVERTISEMENT.

There is a proposition which presents itself as one of the most profitable ways in which you can spend your summer vacation. It is not to explain the chromatic aberration of the lens in a stereoscope, nor to demonstrate the usefulness, lightness, and tensile strength of aluminum for cooking purposes, nor to present the paramount value of some book being distributed, which requires a wonderful knowledge of the intricate themes of the subject matter. Nor is it to say that this particular apple tree will grow best in this particular soil. But to those who have planned a period of leisure and want to combine genuine enjoyment and self-culture, there is a scheme by which one may do this. If you have planned to sit in the drug store all summer, or loaf around some peanut joint, or sit on a goods box and whittle, change your plans at once. Get a supply of the best literature and read it, not thoughtlessly, but earnestly and with a purpose. Get a copy of Wordsworth’s poems and go down by a small, quiet stream and, ‘neath the shade of the huge, overspreading beech, let the poet tell you of true enjoyment of nature and of the formative influences of nature unadorned. Let him instill into you the thought that:

“One touch of the vernal wood
May teach you more of man
Of moral, evil and of good
Than all the sages can.”

As the brook whispers softly, drink deeply from the wells of literature which have their sources in Lamb, Scott, De Quincey, Shelley, Byron, and Keats. Be sure and get a copy or copies of some good Southern literature—in which are treasures that are little known. Though some have produced no real thought to the world’s knowledge, yet there is much material for thought. The beautiful expressions will help you to be more efficient in your own speech and writing. Go out and see the farmer and his plow (Continued on page 6).

WALLACE-BROUGH MILLINERY COMPANY have just received a new line of Midsummer Hats, Large and Small, Black and White, and Most Attractive Shades.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tenn.
Offers a complete three-year Law Course
Write for Catalogue
CHARLES H. WILBER, Secretary
Member of the Association of American Law Schools.

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.

SHERIDAN'S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Statesville, N.C.

Gilbers & Patterson Agents
SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 60 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.