4 The DAVIDSONIAN, January 24, 1917

THE FORUM

A REFORM SUGGESTED.

The student’s greatest bugbear, the final examination, has long been in existence; few things stand the test of time that
are not worthy and useful. We are not mistaken when we conclude that the examination occupies a very important position
among the duties of the college attendant, although it finds no place of usefulness among the student’s tasks. But to
be fair to both sides of the question, we must point out the two reasons why examinations should be required
of all, both of the college attendant and of the student. The preparation must be made hastily, generally in a
few hours. This gives a rapid survey of the subject in hand, which means that the subject will then be
viewed as a unit, and its interrelation will be more clearly seen; but do not the monthly reviews tend to
produce this same effect? Or could not a summarizing essay be required at the end of each term, an essay
which would require the student to review the whole subject, and yet not burden him with the strain of uncertainty
that is connected with the examination?

The second argument in its favor is that one is taught to make a positive use of the knowledge he
has stored up during the term. Again we have to refer to the reviews: they have already called upon the
student to use his accumulated knowledge. Now, viewing the subject from another angle, it will be seen that examinations can
be made useful as an incentive to the ones not interested in studies. How hard a person will work to
“get out of” something! If it were made a rule of the college that anyone making 90 or more on
the term’s work would be excused from the final examination on that subject—if this were the case, how many more
would find greater interest in their work, how many more would thoroughly prepare for each daily recitation! Without a doubt,
the scholastic standing of the college would be greatly increased.

Above it was hinted that lessons would be carefully prepared when assigned: this would be a true and exceedingly desirable
result. The treacherous custom of “spotting” would become more useless and less and less practiced. Dependence could no longer be
placed in “cramming.” That which is “crammed” the mind refuses to hold: the undigested knowledge is held long enough to
be poured out upon the examination paper. After that it is gone forever. However, on the other hand, if each
recitation is prepared at the time assigned, several benefits will result: Promptness will first become evident, and along with it
increased study and mental training; these will tend to produce thoroughness, and all will unite in permanently fixing the facts
in the student’s mind. That which is learned by repeated, thorough efforts will remain longer than the useless jumbled mass
of ideas gotten by cramming.

Examinations are not a fair test of a student’s ability. The important part of a subject to one student may
be insignificant to another; this means that neither chose wrongly, but that each learned what was of most value in
his respective position in life. The professor’s idea of the essential things would probably differ from the student's ideas, and,
looking from his point of view, he would also be right; in other words, there is a phase of almost
every subject studied that fits, appeals to, and fixes itself in each student’s mind, but the final examination seldom ever
respects this difference in temperaments. And again, the examination is unfair because its severity is greatly dependent upon the mood
of the instructor at the time the test is held. At one time he may give a very easy examination,
which would cause him to over-estimate the student's knowledge of the study; or, in another mood, he might give a
very hard examination, which would cause him to over-estimate the student's ignorance of the subject in hand.

Now let us view the examination in its only place of utility, i.e., when it is used as an incentive
to higher scholarship. But before the college attendant will be impelled, by examinations, to become a student, he must see
a reward at the end; or, in other words, he must know that if during the term he has made
90 or more on any subject studied, that he will...not have occasion to dread the end of the term, that
he will not be subjected to the physical and mental strain of tedious preparation for the dreaded trial, that he
will not have to suffer the humiliation of having his ignorance displayed, and that his report will be sent home
with at least a highly prized “90” on each study upon which he did not have to stand an examination.
When the average college attendant realizes that more thorough study today will enable him tomorrow (for we all live in
the future) to reap the benefits just enumerated, he will immediately increase his efforts—and certainly no harm will be done.
Only good can result: The efforts of those who are at present students will not be lessened; the physical and
mental strain of examinations will be eliminated for those who dread them the more, that is, for the men who
make grades of 90 or over; faithful effort will receive a double reward, of freedom from examinations, and a clearer,
fuller knowledge of the subjects covered. “How can we get more studying done?” will practically be an answered question: and
a line of distinction will be drawn, not openly, probably, but in some quiet, thoughtful moment in each college man’s
life; in his meditation he will say to himself: “Do I have to stand examinations? Have I classed myself among
the slothful, indifferent, and idealless because I lack the willpower to overcome my inclinations? Yes,” he confesses, as he determines,
“but from now on I’ll show the strength of my will.” And he, who is already seeking the beauties of
scholarly work, will, in his quiet moments, modestly reflect: “Maybe, now, with the dread of the examination removed, I can
do a little better work, and accomplish a little more.” We have not stated that the examination is valueless, but
we do contend that here, at Davidson, it is not serving in its greatest capacity of usefulness. May they soon
be used as a reward for the faithful, as an incentive to the lazy, and as a condemnation of the
slothful and idealless!

O. J. T., JR.

* * *

Class of 1918, soon you will be in the “limelight” of college activities; soon you will be classed as “mighty
Seniors.” Time flies so quickly that before long each will be wondering if his will be the privilege of wearing
a cap and gown. No doubt some others are interested in the same question; but hundreds are interested in “What
worthy deed will the class of '18 have the privilege of having done?” Every class does something worthwhile. If you
can influence the faculty in this matter of exempting students from final examinations, will it not be well worth the
effort?

O. J. THIES.

At a recent meeting of the Civic League the following officers were elected for the ensuing term: Miss Cornelia Shaw,
president; Mrs. H. J. Brown, vice-president; Mrs. Earl Lathery, secretary; Mrs. Ochler, treasurer.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. . . Fountain. . . The Rexall Store

Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the
right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you. Make
your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here:

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Society Brand Clothes Knapp-Felt Hats HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL —Charlotte, N. C.—

HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C. HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N. C. HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N. C. HOTEL
MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va. HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville We cater to special trips for students L. E. Patterson, College
Representative

6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00 DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Defy Jack Frost with his chilly blasts and wear a Spalding Sweater Big, warm and comfortable, with a high storm
collar that covers the ears when turned up. Good weight, best quality worsted, with a pocket on each side. Price
- $8.50 Others, of course—send for our catalogue

A. G. SPALDING & BROS. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.
