6 The DAVIDSONIAN October 3, 1917

DAVIDSON’S SHARE SET AT TWO THOUSAND

At the Student Y. M. C. A. Conference this summer at Blue Ridge, the conference voted to raise $100,000 this fall for Army Y. M. C. A. and secretarial work. The canvass for this amount is to be made about the 1st of October. In every state in the South, one institution has been selected, and the amount raised in that institution is to serve as a standard for the other colleges and universities in that state. From all the colleges in North Carolina, Davidson has been selected as the standard college. Two thousand dollars is the minimum amount to be raised here, and with such a small student body, it is going to take sacrifices on the part of everyone to raise such an amount and keep up Davidson's “rep.” while at the same time aiding in such a just and needy cause.

At Blue Ridge, in discussing the raising of this fund, it was thought best that each college should make some sacrifice. At Davidson, the Annual and Magazine bring in the best income. It is out of the question to drop the Annual. The Magazine is the only thing that could be dropped. But some outlet must be provided for literary talent. This talent might be expressed through The Davidsonian, or probably one special issue of the Magazine might be published. The question as to what will be done will be submitted to the student body sometime in the near future.

STUDENT ASSISTANTS TO THE PROFESSORS

The following students have been chosen as assistants to the various professors for this collegiate year: W. C. Cumming and A. P. Saunders, assistants to Dr. Sentelle; J. A. Thames and R. C. Carter, assistants to Captain Lea; H. M. Grey and J. B. Daffin, assistants in Mathematics and Physics; R. B. Cunningham, O. J. Thies, Jr., and L. M. Currie are assistants in Chemistry; J. B. Woods, Jr., assists in German; J. A. Thames is the bell ringer. The purpose of the vacant period at 11 o'clock on Thursday morning is to give an opportunity to Dr. Martin or anyone visiting Davidson to address the entire student body.

GOOD ATTENDANCE AT C. E. SOCIETY

The meeting of the Christian Endeavor Society Sunday evening was especially interesting, the topic being “Mission Work Among the Immigrants.” J. A. Thames, the leader for the evening, showed that the thousands of immigrants that come to our lands yearly are a splendid opportunity for Christian service; that if we would make good citizens of them, we must first make them good Christians. By means of a clipping, “I Am the Immigrant,” Thames showed that a large percentage of our mining and manufacturing is done by immigrants, and they naturally look to us for the Gospel as well as the necessities of life. Short talks were made by C. I. Allen, Hollandsworth, Orgain, Maddrey, E. G. Lilly, and Burney, showing how we can get better results in our work among the foreigners, and also the negroes, by more courteous treatment. The attendance at this meeting was especially good, and it is hoped that this increase of interest in the society will continue throughout the year. The meeting next Sunday will be led by T. L. Fowle, the topic being “Christ's Yoke: What It Is and How to Wear It.”

J. L. FOWLE ADDRESSES MINISTERIAL BAND

The Ministerial Band held its regular weekly meeting Sunday night. In the absence of G. C. Bellingrath, president, the meeting was presided over by R. W. Robinson, vice-president. The speaker for the occasion was J. L. Fowle, president of the Y. M. C. A. His subject was “Christianity and the Y. M. C. A.” He showed how the two were linked together, and how all other international organizations, such as the peace leagues, had failed, but the Y. M. C. A. still stands more firmly fixed than ever. He showed how Christianity and the Y. M. C. A. agree, since the Y. M. C. A.A. stands for: first, clean lives; second, uplift of the mind; third, the saving of men’s souls. He stated that there are three ways they could help the Y. M. C. A.: first by prayer; secondly, by personal work; and thirdly, by speaking for it. This talk was very impressive and made a deep impression upon all who heard it, in that it was a challenge to the Christianity in a man.

WINSTON-SALEM CLUB INITIATES NEW MEMBERS

The Winston-Salem Club held its first meeting of the year Saturday night, at which time the following officers were elected for the year: F. T. Maddrey re-elected president; J. P. Taylor, Jr. vice-president; J. A. Thames, secretary-treasurer. John Hendricks and Eugene Apperson, both '21, were initiated into the club at this meeting. The membership this year is composed of Messrs. F. G. and H. T. Lilly, J. A. Thames, J. P. Taylor, Jr., John Hendricks, Eugene Apperson, and F. T. Maddrey. Immediately after the business meeting they adjourned to a delightful “feed,” which all enjoyed immensely.

MASS MEETING HEARS ADDRESS ON “HEALTH”

One of the first actions of Davidson's health officer, Dr. Z. K. Justice, was to call a mass meeting of citizens on Saturday last. Representative men and women from the town met at 7:30 on the 29th, at the Methodist Church, to hear an interesting and instructive lecture by Dr. Justice. He explained some of the most apparent symptoms of the most common contagious diseases and gave some valuable advice in regard to the present conditions. Dr. Justice urged the cooperation of all citizens to make Davidson a model town in the state for health and sanitation.

LOST—On or near campus, gold scholarship medal, with initials F. W. S. 1911. Return to Power House and receive reward.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., H. W. Thompson, Cashier.
A. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

A. S. POTTS
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC. MAKERS

Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete Line of College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

Charlotte Laundry
Oldest Largest Best
If you need a new suit of clothes, do you buy the cheapest you can find? No! You want QUALITY. If you have laundry work, dry cleaning, or hat cleaning and blocking to be done, remember that the Charlotte Laundry insures you QUALITY ABOVE ALL.

JOB PRINTING
Those desiring work of a high character, coupled with prompt execution and delivery, should get in touch with us. It is our policy to give particular attention to the typographical arrangement of each job, thereby guaranteeing satisfaction. Let us quote prices.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
216 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
C. J. THIES, Jr., Local Representative

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Southern Railway System
Reaches QUICKLY and CONVENIENTLY, With frequent and Splendidly Equipped Trains All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST
Pullman Sleeping Cars and Dining Car Service On ALL THROUGH TRAINS
Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points
Special Attention Given To Athletic Trips
For detailed information call on or write
S. E. BURGESS, Division Passenger Agent, Charlotte, N. C.
THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTH

$500.00 REWARD
Five Hundred Dollars Reward will be paid by the SOUTHERN RAILWAY SYSTEM for the arrest and conviction of the person or persons who removed spikes, bolts, and angle bars, resulting in derailment of passenger train No. 36, near Huntersville, N. C., Tuesday morning, July 27th, 1917. All communications pertaining to this subject should be addressed to J. W. Connelly, Chief Special Agent, Southern Railway System, Charlotte, N. C. If arrested, wire him or Sheriff N. W. Wallace, Charlotte, N. C.
W. N. FOREACRE, General Manager.