The DAVIDSONIAN
November 21, 1917

WOFFORD GAME WILL BE PLAYED ON SPRUNT FIELD

Wofford comes to Davidson Thursday to try conclusions with the victorious Red and Black Wild-Cats. This game, the first on
the Hill this season, should be a very interesting one. Wofford seems to be pretty strong this year, but all
the dope points to a conclusive Davidson victory.

Undoubtedly, Wofford has been playing good football this year, defeating with little trouble Guilford, Erskine, a team representing a N.
Y. Ambulance corps, and scoring twice on Coach Donohue’s veterans from Clemson. Her game Saturday, in which she defeated U.
S. C. 20-0, showed up her team at its best and put her quarterback, Ellerbe, in the limelight. Davidson is
ready to add Wofford to her string of victories, but expects to have to play real football.

For Wofford, the work of Ellerbe and Carmichael usually features and our team may well watch them.

Davidson will probably line-up as last Saturday. The Wofford Terriers will line-up about as follows: Earle, center; Flowers and Kinney,
guards; Smith and Pearson, tackles; Hammond and Burnett, ends; Ellerbe, quarter; Boyle and Carmichael, halves; Vaughn, fullback.

All the student body will be out to the game, Sprunt Field, Thursday.

DO YOUR SHOPPING AND SHIPPING EARLY

More of “Our Boys" will be away from home and family this year at Christmas time than ever before in
our history. On account of the enormous volume of war materials and supplies, in addition to the usual large movement
of holiday shipments, it will require from now on every available baggage, mail, and express car that can be put
into service.

To help the situation and to ensure Christmas packages reaching their destination on time and thus avoid disappointment, the public
is earnestly requested to ship their Christmas packages (whether by mail or express) at least ten (10) days or two
weeks before Christmas. This action will not only be appreciated by the Government, but by the railroads, whose already heavy
burdens they are trying to carry with promptness and dispatch.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILROAD,
J. F. Dalton, G. P. A.

DR. McDOWELL DELIVERS ADDRESS TO STUDENTS

Dr. McDowell, who spoke to the students last Thursday morning on behalf of the Y. M. C. A. War Fund,
began by saying that now is the time for a man to stand up straight and help support his government
with both shoulders. It is a time when it is necessary to think in terms of empires and deal in
millions. We face one of the bluest moments in the history of the war and we have promises of it
lasting several years. When we begin to make the supreme sacrifice, then we will realize that war is upon us.

General Pershing says that the thing that will help most in winning the war is morale. The organization that contributes
most toward creating a high morale among the soldiers is the Y. M. C. A. To do their work, the
Y. M. C. A. is asking for funds. We were shocked at the beginning of the war when $3,000,000 was
asked for to carry on the Y. M. C. A. work. Now $35,000,000 is asked. The first request for money
was almost doubled and the second request seems likely to be oversubscribed. Mr. McDowell continued by telling how this huge
sum would be distributed. It is to be divided among the Y. M. C. A. organizations in all the fighting
nations. Fifty per cent of the $1,000,000 to be raised among the colleges goes to the prisoners.of the war. Dr.
McDowell said that many will suffer because of sacrifices in order to give, but many more will suffer because they
can’t give all they desire to give. The speaker then told of the Y work in Camp Greene, which is
typical of the work all over the world.

SECOND LYCEUM NUMBER IS WELL RECEIVED

“Ye Olde New England Choir,” the second number of the Piedmont Lyceum, gave a very entertaining performance in Shearer Hall
Friday night to a large audience of students and townspeople. The choir was composed of R. C. Simond, tenor; Miss
Hazel Henry, soprano; Miss Gertrude Greely, alto, and F. L. Perry, baritone; with Miss Leavitt as reader and pianist. The
performance was divided into four parts: Ye Pilgrim period, ye Colonial period, ye Abolitionist period, and ye Modern period. During
the intermission Miss Leavitt gave several humorous recitations. Some of these were unusually fine and caused roars of laughter. “Peck's
Bad Boy,” “One of Job’s Comforters” and “An Auto Ride” were especially well received. Miss Leavitt is one of the
most entertaining readers that has been heard at Davidson in some years. The choir gave several selections that were used
in those periods. The Abolitionist period was especially well received. Such songs as “Dixie,” “Yankee Doodle,” “Tenting Tonight,” and “Polly
Put the Kettle On” were among the best numbers. The entertainment closed with a few selections of modern times. All
the periods were presented with dress that illustrated those times.

BELK FRATERNITY CUP IS AWARDED TO BETA

The Belk Fraternity Cup has been awarded to the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity for the highest average during the 1916-17
term. The faculty committee in making the final average only took the grades of the members who remained through final
examinations. The average of the winning fraternity was 83.54. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity was a very close second with
an average of 83.20. The hall that was formerly occupied by the local chapter of the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity
is now being occupied by the Bachelors.

W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES $3.00 $3.50 $4.00 $4.50 $5.00 $6.00 $7.00 $8.00 $9.00 $10.00

Belk Bros. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Complete Line of

Prepare for Senior Speaking GET THAT SUIT DRY CLEANED The Ben-Vonde Co. The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners 18,
20 and 22 W. Fifth St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S. A. THAMES, BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

DRY CLEANING High Grade Laundering Hats Cleaned & Reblocked The Charlotte Laundry 444 S. Church St. Oldest Largest Best Statesville,
North Carolina

The College PRINTERS If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers A. S. Petts, College Agent, 20 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies LOW
PRICES OUR MOTTO Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

When in Mooresville Visit— The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson

Chero-Cola Bottling Company CHARLOTTE, N. C. 10 N. Church St.

Faculty Students Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? 17 Years at the Same Place See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
