The Davidsonian, April 18, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly....... . Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are: J. F. McLerkin, L. M. Currie, L. G. Calhoun, W. C. Neal, M. A.
Tremain, T. F. Guy, W. Love, C. F. Allen, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., J. B. Woods, R. G. Liston, D.
W. Roberts, E. H. Eikel, and C. J. Hollandsworth.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

Mecklenburg County has the pep—she is going to grow something to eat as well as something to put on the
contraband list. Napoleon once wrote that his whole anxiety was to obtain the victory with the least effusion of blood
possible. We do not want the blood of the Germans so much as we want our rights. But if they
come out on the international highways we are liable to give them a drink which will prove fatal.

If the Commencement Hall could speak it would utter a sigh of relief. Why? Because debating is almost over. Discussion
has ended. Congress settled it. All factions are proving the statement of (Latin) Gildersleeve: “Hearts knit quickly in the stress
of war.”

A CAMPUSSISM.
Our campus is one of the prettiest in the South. Abundant expression of its beauty and naturalness comes from all
who have any esthetic faculties. Let's do our part to merit this. How? Cooperate with Mr. Hill in getting rid
of those horrid little paths. We can do more—we can stop throwing paper wrappers and other things on the campus
as we are coming from the street. The campus is a great asset to the advertising of Davidson. It will
be a better channel if it is pathless and waste paperless.

The ground west of Sprunt Field is taking on a new aspect. It really looks as good as a cloth
of gold. Work on the gymnasium has begun.

MR. P. V. NASBY I.
If you have been reading these columns for several weeks you have seen that a great deal of discussion has
clung tenaciously to the name of Petroleum V. Nasby II. This is the name signed to a scathing satire written
about campus conditions. It is a piece of quixotry about campus problems. The Editor’s note (by the Forum Editor) appended
to McIlwaine's Forum article was inappropriate and was not an expression of the staff. The satire needed no defense because
some had given it the wrong interpretation. We, as a final word, want to say that we regret this article
ever gracing or disgracing these columns. Though a piece of perfunctory sarcasm, it was taken seriously by many. We know
that conditions on the campus have been highly colored and discolored by writers contributing to this department. Some of the
very smallest things—although probably supported by a mere thread of flimsy gossip, have been magnified into several times their normal
dimensions. If you—the outsider—have gotten a wrong impression of our college life, we would like to right the wrong that
has been done.

DAVIDSONIANISM.
This is the support that you should give this publication. Not only you, but the advertisers, make your Davidsonian possible.
Of course, ads in this college weekly bring manifold results. But the advertiser does not always know what benefits his
investment is bringing. When you go into the establishment of an advertiser in Charlotte or anywhere else he cannot tell
you from a Yale or Princeton student or a Philadelphia lawyer or a resident of Fifth Avenue. If you are
carrying a musical instrument he does not know you from a member of the Harvard Orchestra or of some great
symphony company taking part in a grand opera. What you should do is to let him know that you have
seen his advertisement in your paper. Tell him that you are glad to see that he is taking space in
The Davidsonian or something to this effect. By this, he will feel good, and the Business Manager will feel better
when he solicits his patronage for a contract for 1917-18. Do this—give your paper a push. Buy from our advertisers
andlet them know that they are ours. A New NOTE. Some time ago the New York Evening Post came out
with an editorial saying that “The old Southern complaint that Southern literature is unjustly neglected has lost its force” since
as many books have been sold of some later Southern writers as of “Northern contemporaries of equal ability.” A Southerner
should be glad to know this. However, there is one field where the study of our literature is neglected—in schools,
colleges, and universities. It is surprising to know, after looking through many Southern college and university catalogs, that none of
them provide for anything distinctly Southern in their literary courses. This should not be—the American college student should study our
literature as he studies New England or Western literature.

Dr. Fulton says that literature is always a faithful picture of what has been said and thought and done. “The
distinctive tone of the happy Southern life should be dearer to those below the Mason and Dixon line than the
life of the Northerner or that of Shakespeare's or Browning's day.” A new note was sounded to educators in Macon,
Ga. by Dr. Fulton. He urged that colleges put this in their prerequisites for entrance into the English department. Also,
that Southern literature—one of the most distinctive—be taught in the colleges. This is made possible by a recent work of
his “Southern Life in Southern Literature.” Though this fine selection of literature has been on the market for a very
short time, colleges are already beginning to order their supply. In a few years most of our Southern colleges and
universities will have responded to this note and the works of the once neglected writers will be resurrected and we
no longer will be a neglectful people. It will be a glad day when this movement recently launched has permeated
our educational institutions.

The many admirers of “College Life—Its Conditions and Problems” will be glad to know that this is used as a
regular text in universities and colleges numbering far towards a hundred. Of the many, a few of the representative ones
are: University of Cincinnati, University of Illinois, Salem College, Georgia Tech, University of Virginia, Agnes Scott College, and Cornell University.

NEW MEMBERS FOR BLUE PENCIL CLUB

At the meeting of the Blue Pencil Club, April 4th, the following men were initiated into membership: J. A. Thames,
L. M. Thomas, R. C. Jones, and W. G. Humphrey. Professor Fulton is Historian of the Sigma Upsilon Fraternity and
a member of the National Council.

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. E. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for
Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived: NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.

Quality Counts
That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.
Alex. Taylor & Co.
The Commissary
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
