The DAVIDSONIAN
September 26, 1917

ETIQUETTE OF THE FLAG.

Anniversaries on which the flag should be displayed at full staff: January 3, Battle of Princeton; February 12, Lincoln’s birthday; February 22, Washington’s birthday; April 19, Battle of Lexington; May 30, Memorial Day; June 14, Flag Day; June 17, Battle of Bunker Hill; July 4, Independence Day; September 6, LaFayette’s Birthday; October 12, Columbus Day; October 19, Surrender at Yorktown; November 25, Evacuation Day; December 26, Battle of Trenton; and other legal holidays or special occasions.

On Memorial Day the flag should fly at half staff from sunrise to noon, and at full staff from noon to sunset. During time of war it is proper to display the flag continuously, but it is conducive to the spirit of economy and to greater respect for the flag to lower it at night and as far as possible protect it from inclement weather. The flag should not be hoisted before sunrise nor allowed to remain up after sunset. The flag should never be allowed to touch the ground while being hoisted or lowered. Its folds should float freely and should be cleared at once whenever fouled. The flag should be saluted by all present while being hoisted or lowered, and when it is passing on parade or in review. The spectator should rise if sitting; halt if walking; and standing at “attention,” salute with right hand in all cases, except that a man in civilian dress and covered should uncover and hold the headdress opposite the left shoulder with the right hand.

Neither the flag nor a picture of it should be used for any advertising purposes whatever; nor as toys, fans, parasols, paper napkins, sofa or cushions; nor as a cover for a table, desk, or box; nor in any other debasing manner. It is unlawful to trample upon, mutilate, or otherwise treat the flag with insult or contempt; or to attach to it any inscription or object whatsoever.—Literary Digest.

TRAIN SCHEDULES.

The following schedule of the railroad service went into effect on last Sunday, September 23. It is given as information to The Davidsonian readers, but its accuracy is not guaranteed.

NORTHBOUND.
No. 26, for Winston-Salem, 8:35 a.m.
No. 16, for Taylorsville, 8:54 a.m.
No. 24, for Taylorsville, 5:23 p.m.

SOUTHBOUND.
No. 25, from Winston-Salem, 6:30 a.m.
No. 23, from Taylorsville, 11:19 a.m.
No. 25, from Taylorsville, 8:00 p.m.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF ANNUAL ELECTED

At a meeting of the Senior class on last Saturday morning, H. T. Lilly was elected Editor-in-Chief of the annual.

WHAT SOLDIERS THINK OF THE Y. M. C. A.

“At it was growing dark”—“On my first evening at the fort, as it was growing dark, I stood in the front of my tent waiting for some of the soldiers I met that afternoon to come by for me to take me outside the fort, across the river, where they had some personal plans in which they assured me I would be interested.

“As I stood there waiting, other soldiers came by and invited me to go to the Y. M. C. A. with them. As I was told it was a convenient place to write letters, and having some to write, I came along.

“Religious services started and the sermon being so instructive and well delivered I waited until it was over, then finished my writing; as I finished I heard taps sounding and had to go back to my tent to retire, without having gone across the river.

“As long as they live—I learned later that the fellows with whom I was supposed to go across the river that night caught something of which the doctor, who gave us a stereoptical lecture the very next night, said they can never get rid of as long as they live. ..... ”

“We are in this war, we're in,
Don’t lose your nerve!
Brace up and wear a winner's grin.
We will hoist ‘Old Glory’ in Berlin.
The Y. M. C. A. Will help us win.”

“I guess lots of my brother soldiers have been in such Y. M. C. A. meetings.”C. A.'s as this before, but as this is my first it is something quite new to me. I know how to appreciate it and sincerely hope all the other soldiers do, for boys, if God be with us who can be against us, and if I am not mistaken the Army Y. M. C. A.’s intentions to make better soldiers.”

“I sauntered up to the desk and wanted to buy some stationery, as I had seen the fellows writing. When to my surprise the clerk said his business was to distribute it gratis.”

“Then again at the Y. M. C. A. tent came in contact with fine, clean-cut fellows that I was glad to meet. Fellows with a proper appreciation of propriety and decency, with a fear of God in their hearts, and a cleanliness in their speech that made them good pals.”

This from a former Y. M. C. A. Secretary, now in Officers’ School at Oglethorpe: “The ‘Y’ is the biggest thing there. They are on the job. This place would be Hell without it.”

LOST—On or near campus, gold scholarship medal, with initials F. W. S. Stick out your CLUETT-PEABODY & CO-INC MAKERS

Belk Bros. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Complete Line of College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday night and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S. Potts, Agent

Southern Railway System LINES EAST $500.00 REWARD Five Hundred Dollars Reward will be paid by the Pullman Sleeping Cars and SOUTHERN RAILWAY Dining Car Service SYSTEM for the arrest and conviction of the person or persons who removed spikes, bolts and angle bars, resulting in derailment of passenger train No. 26, near Huntersville, N. C., Tuesday morning, July 27th, 1917. All communications pertaining to this subject should be addressed to J. W. Connelly, Chief Special Agent, Southern Railway System. If arrested, wire him or Sheriff N. W. Wallace, Charlotte, N. C.

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited

L. A. Chambliss was elected last spring to take this place, but as he accepted a position on the faculty of McCaulie School, at Chattanooga, he was unable to return to college this year. To fill this vacancy Lilly was elected after a close race between three members of the class.

ALL THROUGH TRAINS Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points Special Attention Given To Athletic Trips

ALUMNI! Have you sent in your subscription to THE Davidsonian yet? Every undergraduate student is a subscriber; had you ever thought what a splendid paper THE Davidsonian would be if every alumnus backed it with his subscription? Is your name on the list? Let us put you down as a regular subscriber before the next issue comes out.

The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers 616 Chestnut St Philadelphia

W. N. FOREACRE, General Manager. THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTH