6

CHARLOTTE HIGH SCHOOL DEFEATS SCRUBS AGAIN

Last Saturday on Wearn Field, the Charlotte Highs defeated the Davidson scrub team by a score of 14 to 12.
The Scrubs were somewhat heavier than the High School, but this was made up for by the speed of the
Charlotte backs, who repeatedly ripped off long gains around the ends. The Scrubs, however, were impregnable in the line and
gained consistently through the line of their opponents.

The two touchdowns for the Davidson scrubs were made by straight, hard football, line plays together with short end runs
and one forward pass, out of about a half dozen attempted with three intercepted by the local backfielders. The two
touchdowns for the Highs were results of long runs by Captain Templeton and McDonald. Each one of them was for
85 yards. McDonald made his from scrimmage and Wearn kicked goal, putting the Highs in the lead by one point.
Play was resumed and Davidson fought hard and scored another touchdown. Captain Templeton requested a kick-off when his team was
last scored on and put behind. When the kick-off took place, Captain Templeton caught the ball and side-stepped one opponent
after another and finally placed the ball behind the goal posts.

As usual, both teams scored an equal number of touchdowns. In this game, they scored two each for 12 points
for each team. The difference in the score was brought about by the reliable toe of Bill Wearn, who put
both his trials for goals after touchdowns squarely through the uprights for one point on each kick, making the total
score for the afternoon’s victors 14 points.

Offensive stars for the Highs were Captain Templeton, McDonald, and Nesbit. R. Wearn, Linney, and Templeton were the defensive stars
for the Highs. Captain Robson, at quarterback, and Massey, at fullback, were the stars for the Davidsonians.

The line-up follows:

SCRUBS (12) POSITION HIGHS (14)
Miley .......... Center .......... Robson, G.
Rumple ........ Right Guard ........ White
Baker ........ Left Guard ........ Finley
Linney ........ Right Tackle ........ Romefelt
Wearn ........ Left Tackle ........ Harris
Crayton ........ Right End ........ Fischel
Miller ........ Left End ........ Robson, C. (C)
McDonald ........ Quarterback ........ Walker
Nesbit ........ Right Halfback ........ Hall
Templeton (C) ........ Left Halfback ........ Massey
Wearn ........ Fullback

Referee: John Pharr (Davidson).

Substitutions for Davidson: Davenport for Finley, Finley for Robson, Vance for Walker.

IN THE GLOAMING.
(Continued from page 2)

periment in College Journalism.” This was only issued for one time, which was the purpose in the beginning. It was
published for this one time merely as an experiment with the idea of a future college newspaper.

This paper is part of Davidson history. It stands at the beginning of representative journalism at Davidson. It is a
monument to the class, of which it should be proud. Indeed, it is a credit and is an invaluable increment
to the collections which we prize and hold dear and sacred to our collegiate history.

The DAVIDSONIAN
November 7, 1917

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People

Mr. and Mrs. John Reid expect to leave at the end of the...week to make their home with their son,
Dr. Rufus Reid, who is a rising physician in New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Reid are among our finest
citizens, and their going is a great loss to the community.

* * *

The Civic Club will hold an important meeting next Tuesday at 4 p.m. Officers for 1918 will be elected and
plans for the bazaar will be perfected.

* * *

Captain Lea's father was among the visitors on the Hill last week.

* * *

Miss Frances Worth left Monday morning for Wilmington to be a bridesmaid at the wedding of her cousin, Miss Louise
Worth.

* * *

Dr. Sentell left Friday for his home in Tennessee to bring back his sister, Mrs. Green, and her children, who
will spend the winter with him.

* * *

Dr. Cartledge has been visiting friends in Brevard for the weekend.

* * *

Dr. Martin attended the Synod of North Carolina which was held in Fayetteville last week. On his return, he spent
Friday at Red Springs with his daughter.

* * *

Mrs. Wm. Orr, of Statesville, has been spending a few days with Mrs. Richards.

* * *

The Young Ladies’ Missionary Society will meet with Miss Dorothy Finlayson on Thursday afternoon.

* * *

Mrs. W. H. McNeill, of Carthage, will open a boarding house at Mrs. Campbell's.

CAMPUSISMS.

W. C. Smith spent Monday in Charlotte.

* * *

J. R. Richards, '20, brother to N. S. Richards, '20, spent Friday on the Hill.

* * *

Freshman filling out physical examination paper:
Question: "Do you use tobacco?"
Answer: "Yes."
Question: "In what form?"
Answer: "Brown mule!"

* * *

Corporal Key drilling squad: "Right dress, squad halt."

* * *

Coyte Hunter, '19, spent Sunday in Mooresville.

* * *

Professor on Psychology examination:
Question: "Name the two hemispheres of the brain."
Student's answer: "Eastern and Western."

HEATING PLANT DELAYED.

The heating plant has not been installed in the gymnasium because of delay in the shipment of the piping and
other material. Mr. Jackson says the men can complete the installation in four days after they begin work. The men
stand in readiness to do the work, but have to wait upon the arrival of the material.

Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

RING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.

The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
THE FLORIST, Inc.
8 N. TRYON ST.
SCHOLTZ
PHONES 441-2
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits. Special attention given to "FEEDS."

L. A. Elliott

Something good to eat ALL the time.
