The DAVIDSONIAN, June 21, 1917

Shoe Opening
The Gilmer-Moore Co. of Charlotte will have a complete line of shoes on display at Brown’s today.

Debate, Saturday night, February 24:
Resolved, That it is the policy of the United States to declare war on Germany.
Negative: Fraser, Frierson, Guy, Hamilton.
Philanthropic — Affirmative: Paisley, Leyburn, Pharr, Chalmers, Freeman.
Negative: Query, Henderson, Misenheimer, Menzies, Tremain, J. W. McAlister.

Monday morning, February 26—
Declamations and Orations:
Eumenean—Declamations: Harwood, Hollandsworth, Honeycutt, Liston.
Orations: Hobson, Hudson, Humphrey, Jenkins.
Philanthropic—Declamations: Robinson, Stogner, W. C. Neel, Sample, Wilson.
Orations: Murray, Morton, Thames, H. T. Lilly.

WEEKLY MEETINGS:
Owing to the lecture Saturday night by Mr. R. D. W. Connor, there was no meeting of the Literary Societies.
In the Eumenean Society, Monday morning, three declamations were rendered. Byrd gave “A Vision of War and a Vision of
the Future,” by Emerson; Carwile gave a prophecy quoted from Thomas Edison; R. R. Craig, “A Vision of War,” by
Ingersoll.

Four orations were delivered. A. R. Craig spoke on “Valentine's Day;” Tryon Crouch, “A Justification of England's Black List;” Keesler
spoke about the death of two promising poets who had been killed on the battlefields of Europe; Hudson gave “Extracts
from the Biography of a Great Man.”

ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
In the Philanthropic Literary Society, Monday morning, the article in the constitution requiring classes to come off on Monday morning
was dispensed with and election of officers for the third term proceeded with, which resulted as follows: President, W. H.
Neal; Vice-President, G. F. Webber; Secretary, F. G. Lilly; First Supervisor, R. D. Hall; Second Supervisor, M. A. Siske; First
Critic, D. I. McKeithan; Second Supervisor, O. C. Williamson; Valedictorian, W. H. Neal; Respondent, J. A. Thames.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with cashier of Bank.
L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest, Quickest, Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
W. L. Douglas, Agent

NEW BOOK BY PROF. FULTON:
In a recently published volume bearing the title “Southern Life In Southern Literature,” Prof. M. G. Fulton, of the Department
of English, has selected and edited representative works of Southern authors in prose and poetry. “The selections have been made
with a view to their ability to portray Southern life and characteristics in its many aspects and the volume is
unique and interesting in that it has a large proportion of simple life pictures and comparatively little of the works
of historians, essayists, biographers, and political writers. The contents are divided into groups which take up first, the Old South,
then the period of the Civil War, and next the New South, with essays, descriptive writings, romances, humorous stories, and
poems characteristic of each group.

Prefacing each selection is a brief history of the life of its author, while in the concluding portion of the
volume full notes on general Southern literature and on the selected specimens are given, together with a selected bibliography for
the convenience of students. Frequent illustrations throughout the book also add to its attractiveness and interest. The volume is an
important contribution as a textbook to Southern literature, while it will also be a pleasing addition to the libraries of
those interested in Southern life and its portrayal because of its adaptability.

Representative!
Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. S. PATTERSON

UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING SURE TO COME:
To a reporter, Dr. J. W. McConnell recently stated that “Universal military training is almost sure to come.” Dr. McConnell
is a thorough believer in this training both among college and working men. He stated that it will not be
long before...all the colleges will have such training, and that every man will probably be enlisted, or rather, every man
will be on the reserve roll, according to his capacity for service, be he clerk, physician, mechanic, or what not.
Should trouble then arise, this reserve could be called on, and every man will step into service just in the
place for which he is fitted by his daily occupation. The new Summer military camps that are being started are
a signal step towards preparedness. A man may go to one of these and receive military instruction free of charge,
the government paying traveling and all other necessary expenses. The indications are that these camps will be very popular during
the Summer. They certainly offer an opportunity, of which every man, who possibly can, should take advantage.

SCRUBS ARE DEFEATED BY WINSTON HIGHS

On Thursday night the Scrub basketball team was defeated by the fast Winston-Salem High School team by the score of
33 to 22. The game was hard fought, although Winston kept in the lead throughout the entire contest. Winston presented
an excellently balanced team, their passing, shooting and guarding being worthy of much praise, especially for a high school team.
The Scrubs' playing was decidedly off-color although they were able to make the count close by means of periodic rallies.
The playing of Whaling and Crute for Winston was the outstanding feature of the game. For Davidson, McAskill, W. Hall
and McAlister played the best ball. The lineup was as follows:

DAVIDSON SCRUBS. POSITION. WINSTON.
R. F. Hall Whaling
Alexander Hancock
Forwards.
McAskill Lipfort
Center.
W. Hall Fearington
McAlister Crute
Guards.

Summary—Substitutions: Davidson, Douglas for Alexander. Field goals: Davidson, McAskill 7, W. Hall 3; Winston, Whaling 7, Hancock 2, Lipfort 1,
Fearington 4, Crute 4. Free goals: Davidson, Hall 2 out of 4; Winston, Whaling 3 out of 5. Total: Davidson
Scrubs 22, Winston 33. Referee: Reese.

Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:

Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty

Gilbert & Patterson
Agents
Statesville, N.C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Foard Druggists
Mooresville, N.C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

CHARLOTTE

THE BIRTH OF BASKETBALL.

Basketball’s twenty-fifth birthday finds the game flourishing as never before, and crowding baseball and track athletics for popular favor. It
was just a quarter of a century ago, namely, January 15, 1892, that the first match game of basketball was
played in Springfield, Mass. between two class teams of the Y.M.C.A. training school. The sport was invented by Dr. J.
A. Naismith, then of the Springfield institution, but now of the University of Kansas. It is estimated that at least
a quarter of a million persons are playing basketball as members of regular clubs, and the sport has spread all
over the United States and Canada, and to Europe, South Africa and the Far East. In the early days of
the game there were as many as twenty men on a side, but since 1896 there have been five to
a team. The rules have been standardized of late years, and basketball, in its improved form, promises to become the
great American indoor game.—S. L.

MOORESVILLE

ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres.,
H. W. Thompson, Csh.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.,
C. A. Potts, Asst. Csh.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men
