6 "moral code," we should certainly require that clear, convincing evidence of a man’s guilt along this or any other line be given before any action is taken. The question of revising the code should be decided this year and by the whole student body. Personally, I believe that the drinking question is the least ground we have for making such a revision. We put into the constitution this year an all-inclusive hazing rule—a rule specific and definite as to what constituted hazing and what constituted provoking hazing. But this rule, as far as its original purpose was concerned, has proven an absolute failure. It has been broken continually as to the letter of the law, and I venture to say that it has been broken at least unintentionally by every man in the student body, Student Council not excepted. I do not mean that there has been any amount of real hazing, but who of us has not heard “jibing” on the part of some Freshman? We must remember, however, that the student body passed this rule. As a member of the student body I feel that we have all fallen short of our duty in upholding and supporting the honor system. I also think that much of the blame can be traced to the constitution, but not by any means all of it. We as individuals in the student body haven't given the question due thought and consideration. What we need is an honor system in which everyone will feel his personal responsibility. Working toward this end we should make the best of things as they are. The best and only way we can bring about this condition, in my opinion, is to revise our constitution and in doing this let every man in the student body take part in its revision. Let all sides of the question be brought up so that everybody can understand fully the action that is taken. I believe that student body meetings are the places for this discussion to be made. Every man should make it a personal matter to strive for a constitution in which we all, as thoughtful men, are bound up irrevocably to maintain and support and nourish for future college generations. This question should be decided by the student body and decided this year. 

A. P. SAUNDERS.

This is an age of reformation. Since the beginning of the twentieth century radical reforms have been sweeping this country. In some places they have taken the shape of political and social reforms while in others they have been religious and moral changes. It is impossible that this movement should sweep over Davidson College without leaving its indelible stamp upon the campus life. Lately, marked steps have been taken in changing the morals of the campus for the better. Up to the past year this good work was carried out by the students in personal interviews and other honorable ways. The changes themselves are a proof of the value and worth of this system of moral reform. During the past year, however, it seems that on account of a few moral fanatics on the campus that this method of reform has received a severe setback, the result of which is at present the foremost topic of discussion among the students. These extremists seem capable of looking only upon one side of the question. They are eager to find the baseness and evil in an offense but are equally unwilling to sympathize with or aid the transgressor who perhaps is fighting a great temptation. In their superficial and over-zealous morality they have stood off in a Pharisaic attitude and have employed means of obtaining evidence which are beneath the dignity of a student of Davidson College. Of course such a prominent body as the Student Council could hardly hope to escape this movement. The old idea of this council has changed to a new one. While in former years it was supposed to consider only those affairs relating to the welfare of the student body, the new idea is that it should investigate the personal life of each student and, if need be, to amend it to conform with their own ideas. We believe that this dissatisfaction which has been manifestingitself over the campus is not caused by an inadequate governing body—as some have implied—but by lack of knowledge as to the purpose of this body. Its laws and decrees, with certain amendments, have stood ever since the system was first introduced into Davidson College. As the college has enlarged to over twice its natural size, these laws must necessarily be altered to suit the greater number of students. While we believe that they should be made more definite as regards certain offenses, we do not believe that they should bear the characteristics of a narrow-minded hypocrisy.

SOCIAL IN HONOR OF RETURNED SOLDIERS

In honor of the young men who have been at the border for several months, the Citizen’s Club and the Civic Club were at home to all residents of the village at the hall of the latter last night. An address of welcome was made by Prof. A. Currie. Punch and wafers were served and the evening proved an enjoyable one. The national colors were much in evidence in the decorations, and the whole program was pleasing.

The committee in charge and receiving was made up of the following: From the Civic Club: Mrs. W. R. Grey, Mrs. H. J. Brown, Mrs. Earl Lathery. From the Citizen’s Club: Dr. C. M. Richards, Prof. A. Currie, and Dr. J. W. McConnell. The returned members of the National Guard are: Walker Porter, Lamont Fields, Douglas Brown, and Louis Johnston. David Worth has not yet returned to Davidson.

MAGAZINE ANNOUNCEMENT

There will be a slight delay in the coming out of the next Magazine, and it probably will not go to press till the latter part of April. It will, however, be here in plenty of time before Commencement. The Editors desire that this last issue of the year be an especially good one and would like to receive contributions from as many of the student body as can contribute. All contributions must be in before the third week in April.

MRS. A. L. HOBBS

We announce with regret the death of Mrs. Avery L. Hobbs, of this city, which occurred Sunday afternoon, the 25th. Mrs. Hobbs had been an invalid for several months before her death. She is survived by her husband. Her only child was Fred Hobbs, a Davidson student, who was drowned in July, 1900, in his efforts to save a young Mr. Yonan from drowning in the Catawba River. She was the daughter of the late Rev. T. L. Triplett of Mooresville, and her grandfather, J. F. Hedrick, laid the first brick in Chambers building. Interment took place Monday afternoon.

Friends will be grieved to hear of the death on last Sunday of Mr. John Goodrum, an aged and respected citizen of Cornelius. At a meeting of the Junior class held last week, R. P. Richardson, Jr., was elected business manager for the 1918 Annual.

HOTEL HURFINE, - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.
HOTEL MORGAN, - Greensboro, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL STONEWALL, - Charlotte, N. C.

J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
L. B. Patterson, College Representative

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS
Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

COLLEGE BASEBALL 1917

SPALDING Base Ball Record
Over 100 pages of pictures—records—reviews college notes—duel series—names of managers, captains, and coaches—schedules—in fact, everything that a player or a fan wants to know, with all usual features concerning the professional side for which this remarkable book is noted. Including a picture of the DAVIDSON team. 400 pages; 25 cents.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

The Commissary