[ With the Alumni

A copy of “Poets of the Future,” which is a volume made up of selections from college and university magazines
for 1915-16, has just been received by the library. Among the poems are two by Davidson men, “The Order of
Creation” being by S. M. Crisp, Jr., ’16, now in Davidson working for his M.A., and “My Love,” by J.
L. Payne, ’16.

* * *

W. F. Milburn, ‘11, who is “Somewhere in France,” helping in the American Red Cross Ambulance work, will be glad
to hear from his classmates and friends. His address is Care Section Sanitaire Americaine No. 5, Bureau Correspondence Militaire, Paris,
France. When last heard from Milburn was quartered in the loft of a stone barn with the thermometer at zero.

* * *

Hon. W. F. Stevenson, '85, of Cheraw, S. C., has been elected to Congress from the Fifth District to fill
the vacancy made by the death of Congressman Finley. Mr. Stevenson took first honors in his class while here.

Spencer McCants, '12, is now attending the Virginia Medical College, in Richmond.

* * *

Prof. W. R. Withers, ’83, head of the Chemical Department of the North Carolina A. & M. College since 1889,
is now Vice-President of the institution. This re-adjustment came when President Hill, ’80, resigned to devote himself to historical writing.

* * *

Rev. Joe P. Watkins, ‘14, spent Thursday on the Hill.

* * *

J. T. Wearn, ’13, who is a Senior in the Harvard Medical School, has received a two-year appointment in Bellevue
Hospital, New York.

* * *

D. H. Nisbet, '13, also a Senior in the Harvard Medical School, has received a two-year appointment to the Boston
City Hospital.

J. M. Wearn, ex-’19; S. W. Robinson, ex-’19, and R. K. Robinson, ’15, visited the campus Sunday.

SCRUBS SUFFER DEFEAT IN TWO GAMES

On last Wednesday night the Davidson Scrubs were again defeated by the fast Winston-Salem High School quint, on the Winston
floor, by the overwhelming score of 52 to 10. Notwithstanding the score, the game was not a one-sided affair altogether.
The Scrubs fought every minute of the time, but were unable to do anything against the strong defense of their
opponents, or to break up the spectacular shots of the Winston forwards. Both teams showed a lack of teamwork and
the game was featured throughout with long shots. The Winston boys caged the ball from every angle of the court,
and although lacking teamwork, were able to pile up a big score on the Scrubs. For the Scrubs, there were
no special stars, but all those who got in the game played a hard game in the face of defeat.
The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. WINSTON.
Alexander .......... Whaling
D. Hall ............ Hancock
Forwards
McAskill ........... Crute
Center
W. Hall ............ Fearington
McAlister .......... Fulton
Guards

Summary—Substitutions: Davidson, Potts for Alexander, Douglas for Potts, Davenport for R. D. Hall. Winston, Lipfort for Crute, Crute for Fulton.
Time, 20-minute halves. Referee, Sebring.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

MOORESVILLE GAME.

On Thursday night the Scrubs were defeated by the Mooresville quint by the score of 30 to 29. In the
first half, the Scrubs were decidedly off color, and allowed their opponents 22 points to their 12. In the second
half, however, they came back strong and by some fast teamwork succeeded in ending the game only one point behind
their opponents. The game was rough and both teams had numerous fouls called. For the Scrubs, Douglas and McAlister played
the best ball. Stafford played the best game for Mooresville.

The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGEDAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

The next meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club is postponed from Friday to Tuesday, due to the fact that the
Junior Speaking exercises will be held Friday afternoon. The meeting is to be held at the home of Mrs. W.
R. Grey, at 4 o'clock on Tuesday afternoon, March 6th. The work for the afternoon is: “Stories of Mystery and
Fantasy,” the authors being: Edgar Allan Poe, Hawthorne, John Galsworthy, and Lafcadio Hearn. The discussion is to be led by
Miss Vinson.

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

THE LIBRARY

The books in the library should not be considered merely for the purpose of reading paralleled to certain studies, but
as a priceless treasure for the benefit of all who thirst for knowledge. One may find there books dealing with
thousands of topics: history, biography, poetry, literature, politics, oratory, travel, debate, science, religion, art, languages, law, and many others, all
of which are tremendously important.

Picture to yourself two types. A boy who, having finished his classes, rambles to the store to buy a “dope,”
then takes a few pitches at the crack, dances awhile, visits about ten other boys until supper, probably hindering someone
from studying. Another boy, as soon as he has finished his classes, takes a short run and then goes to
the library, reads timely articles and a few chapters in some book that will be an asset to him. Draw
conclusions for yourself as to the one that will more easily make a success out of life.

A young man entering college, if he would spend two-thirds of his spare time reading standard novels by such men
as Dickens, Hawthorne, Thackeray, Hugo, Maupassant, and Scott in his Freshman year, then in his Sophomore year take up history
and biography and so on through art, travel, literature, etc., this is the man who would be truly educated. A
wide fund of information, a deep knowledge of history, literature, and the sciences are invaluable assets to him in any
public activity. These studies are designed to place you in a position to read and study for yourself. Take advantage
of your opportunity! Your work is not over with the tolling of the bell. Duty to yourself and to society
demands that you go farther than merely obeying the mandates of your instructors, but that you equip yourself for your
life work by mastery of that work. Use some initiative and learn things for yourself. — Ex.

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
L. S. Patterson, College Representative

Ralph was going into the third grade, having successfully passed the holiday examinations, and his parting with his beloved teacher
was tearful. “O Miss Ruby!” he wailed. “I wish you knew enough to teach the third grade, so you could
come along an’ teach me next year.” — The Christian Intelligencer.

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS
Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL
Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Pressing Club
Suits Cleaned & Pressed $4.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

HOTEL BUFFINE,
Greensboro, N.C.

HOTEL YADKIN,
Salisbury, N.C.

HOTEL LAFAYETTE,
Fayetteville, N.C.

HOTEL MORGAN,
Danville, Va.

HOTEL LEELAND,
Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

Defy Jack Frost!
Spalding WDJP Sweater
Reversible with storm collar that is ears when turned up. Good weight, best quality worsted, two pockets each side. Price
- $8.50
Others, of course—send for our catalogue
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.
