The DAVIDSONIAN, March 28, 1917

SPRING is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for this Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. Johnson & Potts 2 Rumple

“24 Hour Delivery” Brown's Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon

Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S. Potts, Agent 2 Rumple

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 L. S. PATTERSON, Representative

The Forum Editor’s Note—We are gratified at the number of contributions handed in for this department during the last week or so, and extend our thanks for each one. However, we find that space will not permit the publication of all the articles this week, but all will be published as space permits in coming issues of The Davidsonian. All articles intended for this column should be handed direct to J. A. Thames, Forum Editor.

* * *

IS IT NECESSARY?

Although the United States seems to be on the verge of a war with Germany, or perhaps a state of war already exists, I ask why should this be a time for hysteria, for a wholesale and superficial training of American citizens to bear arms? The preparedness movement, augmented by the war scare, has spread like wildfire all over our country, into all our educational institutions, and now the students of Davidson College are urged to learn to shoot straight and to drill and train so that we may do our share to prevent our country from being swamped by Teutonic hordes. Even though I appear as “a voice crying in the wilderness,” I ask, “Is it necessary?”

Ever since the beginning of the European struggle, the utter unpreparedness of the United States has been preached throughout the land by a military satrapy, by the war traffickers, and by a parasite press. After seeing such pictures as “The Battle Cry of Peace,” and reading the stirring articles of the militarists, we have been expecting on any morning to arise and see our land swarming with Germans or Japs, all bent on making the United States a part of their dominions. And now, with danger evidently nearer at least, we are told that immediately on the breaking out of hostilities we are to be invaded by an immense army, while the submarines of the enemy will blow up everything from the oyster beds of the Carolina coast to the skyscrapers of New York. So the students of this country must be prepared, we must have military training, and some would even compel us to train.

The German Kaiser has pushed his troops into France, where they have compulsory military service; into Russia, where they also have this system; but he has not put a single soldier on English soil, though he has been fighting nearly three years, and he stands today gazing across the channel at the white cliffs of Dover with the same impotent envy as did his prototype, Napoleon, a little over a century ago. The English youths, a few miles away from the enemy, are yet to have the patriotic task of shooting Germans in the British Isles, and yet young Americans, thousands of miles away, must be trained to shoot, so that they can pull down with accuracy the multifarious Germans as they ravage our country anywhere from ten to twenty days after the breaking out of hostilities.

How many troops has Germany landed on the Russian coast, though she has a fleet four times as large and is only a day’s run away? How many soldiers have the Allies placed on the neighboring German coast, though they have a fleet four times the size of Germany’s? The conclusion is obvious. Our defense in the war with Germany must be a strong fleet, backed up with powerful coast fortifications, mines, and submarines, and not a large and unwieldy mass of “citizenry,” hastily trained. Gen. Nelson A. Miles, the Spanish War hero whose knowledge of what he speaks can not be questioned, says that “the placing of an army on American soil is the last thing any European government would attempt. It could never be re-embarked.” No military expert has said we are to send a body of troops to the European trenches. Our part in the war will be naval and financial. The military expert of the London Times says: “The direct military intervention of the United States in the war in Europe is not practicable, even if America were to desire it.” Japan has been in the war two years,and I ask the militarists to tell us how many Japanese troops are fighting in Europe today, and how many Germans are running wild over Japan, or are even present in that country? In view of these facts, I ask, Is it necessary to militarize Davidson College and the other institutions of this country, and to foist upon the United States a system of preparedness whose tragic failure cries to heaven today from a thousand battlefields of carnage with bloody notes of warning to all people? The large number (?) of students who remained after chapel Monday morning to organize a military company at Davidson may be some indication of how we stand on the matter. Let us hope so.

“COMMON SENSE.”

* * *

LET'S GET TOGETHER.

The Student Council, its activities and inactivities, and the efficacy of student government as a whole, have of late been subjects of much discussion, both verbal and written. In adding to this discussion I realize the vital importance of strong student self-government to the life of the college. Some of the points I wish to make are: If the “crisis” is acute enough to merit a change in the constitution, then let the full extent of the crisis be understood by the whole student body; again, let the student body, having discussed the matter thoroughly, in student body meetings, make what changes are necessary. This will enable all sides of the question to be brought out. In making this discussion I am speaking entirely as an individual member of the student body.

Chambliss, in his article in last week's Forum, gave his reason for the present “crisis” and suggestions for remedying these evils. He mentioned three “facts” resulting from the “trial last week:” First, that “men who were clearly guilty of drinking were practically dismissed by being given the slightest punishment possible; secondly, that a Freshman was not punished even though he showed contempt for the highest body in student life here; thirdly, that not only was this Freshman permitted to publicly tell how he horsed the council, but that councilmen themselves spread a report of the council's disgrace around the campus.” Chambliss, to say the least, gives the impression that he is fully acquainted with all the facts in the case. How he is able to give this information as facts I do not know. If he got it from the “Freshman” this of course cannot explain all the “facts” satisfactorily. If he got it from “councilmen themselves,” it seems only fair to the student body that he make known the name or names of his informants, so that the “facts” can be authenticated.

The “case” as brought out in this occurs on the Davidson College campus, except during such events as Senior and Junior Oratoricals and Commencement, we naturally conclude that it occurred at Junior Speaking. An outsider who reads this paper will certainly get a wrong impression if he thinks that Davidson is a place where any large amount of “drinking” takes place. Another thing we all realize is that the cause or occasion of drinking at these events is that some alumni come back to celebrate well supplied with booze. So I remark in passing that these alumni can largely do away with the little drinking that occurs here by observing the “bone dry” law when they return to college. However, if any students broke the “moral code” at that time, and it was plainly shown that they did so, I do not believe that the student body would reverse any reasonable decision on the part of the Student Council. I do not propose to decide the question of “repeated drunkenness.” However, the dictionary definition was, I believe, the one that the framers of the constitution had in mind when the “moral code” was instituted. If the Faculty will give us a more specific definition, all well and good. Otherwise, we ought to bring out all sides of the question before any change is made. I would make this point clear that in whatever manner we may change the article concerning “drinking,” and as it is a current fact that little or no drinking occurs on the Davidson College campus, except during such events as Senior and Junior Oratoricals and Commencement, we naturally conclude that it occurred at Junior Speaking.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan’s Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Statesville, N.C.

Gilbert & Patterson Agents
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.