The DAVIDSONIAN, January 31, 1917

OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

Old Gold and Black—The preliminaries for the three debates in which Wake Forest is to take part this year were held in the two society halls January 26 and 27. Three teams were chosen to debate Baylor, Randolph-Macon, and Colgate, respectively.

* * *

College Topics—In an editorial, the singing or lack of it at gatherings of the students at the University of Virginia was deplored. The writer advanced a method for improving the singing: to ask the members of the Glee Club to sit at the front and sing as if they were singing to an auditorium of one of the girls’ colleges, crowded with girls. In that case, the other fellows would join and soon this criticism could no longer be brought against university students.

* * *

The Tiger—The Glee Club of Clemson College made its initial “tour” last week, giving concerts in Clinton, Greenwood, and Anderson. Only eleven boys made the trip, but those eleven enjoyed the trip enough to make up for those who were so unfortunate as to be left behind.

* * *

The Ring-Tum Phi—Founders’ Day in honor of the memories of George Washington and Robert F. Lee, who gave their money and their services for the upbuilding of what is now Washington and Lee University, was fittingly observed on the anniversary of General Lee’s birthday. The address of the day was delivered by Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, of the class of 1894. His speech was marked by deep feeling and clear presentation, which made it both impressive and intensely interesting.

* * *

Winthrop Weekly News—The General Assembly of South Carolina was entertained at Winthrop College recently. Nearly three hundred and fifty were present, but as some of the legislators brought their wives, which added much to the pleasure of the day, the total number of visitors was three hundred and eighty-three. They were shown over the college and seemed to be much pleased.

“UNCLE HIRAM.”

The earliest trace that can be found of Hiram Potts, better known to us all as “Uncle Hiram,” who died Monday afternoon, is when he, as a slave, belonged to Mrs. Monroe Potts, before the war. Mrs. Potts was the wife of Sheriff Monroe Potts and the mother of the late Mr. Will Potts, of the class of ’90, whose son, Cloyd Potts, class of '10, still lives here. Uncle Hiram spent his boyhood and grew to be a man on the Torrence Place, the home of Mrs. Potts. The Torrence Place is out toward the river, just beyond Gambell’s place. It now belongs to Cloyd Potts. It is not known when Uncle Hiram was born, but he was probably about eighty years old at his death. When he first came to Davidson, he was a grown man. This was during the war, when Rev. John Lycan Kirkpatrick, D.D., was president of the college. At one time, he served the Southern Railway at the pump at the tank here. Later, in the ’80s and ’90s, he served Mr. Wm. J. Martin, the father of the present Dr. Martin. He also served the other members of the Faculty generally. After the death of Dr. Martin, he stayed with the family and served the present Dr. Martin as faithfully as he had his father, and was always courteous and obliging. Later, he became a servant of the college and served it to the best of his ability for the past fifteen years or more. He made many friends among the college fellows and was known to a very large number of the alumni of the college. He always considered the “white folks” as his friends, and what they did as right. Uncle Hiram was always a staunch Democrat, and always voted that ticket. Dr. Martin states that he remembers back in the days of the bloody shirts, when they held large torch-light processions before the elections, Uncle Hiram would ride up in the front of the procession.and carry the Democratic banner. Uncle Hiram was one of the few old slave negroes left. He was truly a shadow from the past, from the days of the old South before the war. He was married twice, but both wives are dead. He left two daughters, one by each wife. Uncle Hiram was buried Tuesday in the colored graveyard, to the north of the golf course, and by the grave of his last wife.

ALL-TIME-ALL-SOUTHERN.
L. F.—Jeb Stuart.
L. T.—Stonewall Jackson.
L. G.—Ollie James.
C.—Champ Clark.
R. G.—Dr. Ben Swanson.
R. T.—Patrick Henry.
R. F.—Nathan B. Forrest.
Q. B.—Woodrow Wilson.
L. H.—George Washington.
R. H.—Thomas Jefferson.
F. B.—Andrew Jackson.

The above is our selection for an all-Southern-all-time team. We don’t believe our pick can be beaten; and we present it to our readers, absolutely confident it will meet with their approval—Morgan Blake, in Atlanta Constitution.

The vital statistics for the town of Davidson as recently announced are as follows: Deaths from all causes, twelve. Of these, seven were under eighteen months of age, and three over 72. The other two were 21 and 58 years old. Births, 34. 1915 was 14, and the year previous 23.

FINE RECORD CONTINUES
(Continued from page V)
Summary—First half: Davidson, 20; Stetson, 8. Second half: Davidson, 24; Stetson, 9. Total: Davidson, 44; Stetson, 17. Substitutes: Finley for Caro, Gilliland for White, Gardener for Bailey. Time: Halves, 20 minutes. Referee: Booe.

WINSTON GAME.
In a fast, clean, and exciting game, Davidson lost her first game of the season Monday night, when the Winston-Salem Y. M. C. A. won 33 to 28. The game was staged at Winston, the first contest of the locals’ seven-day trip through the State, and the Davidson five got away with a flying start and was leading at the end of the first half; in the second, the Winston five, due to Rector’s spectacular playing and strong defensive work, forged ahead, and were never headed off. For Winston-Salem, the playing of Rector and Cash featured. “Eddie” Childs was Davidson's most consistent star, and Reese put up his usual stellar game, his beautiful goal from one end of the floor to the other being the star event of the game. The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. W.-SALEM.
Reese (4) .......... Bazemore (2)
Collier ............ Patterson (2)
Walker (0) .......... Cash (10)
Hengeveld (6) ...... Rector (10)
Childs (5) .......... Morris (4)

Foul goals: Reese, 6; Morris, 5.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE
You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you. Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL
—Charlotte, N. C.—

6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Defy Jack Frost with his Spalding Sweater

HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines
Big, comfortable, with a light cover collar that weighs best quality
Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.
L. O. Patterson, College Representative