The DAVIDSONIAN, October 10, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, October 13: Resolved, That the Keating Child Labor law should be sustained.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: R. W. Robinson and C. W. Worth. Negative: R. H. Stone and W. M. Currie. Extemporary: C. G. Brown
and H. M. Grey. Orations: R. Kornegay, Jr., and G. McDonald.

Debate, Saturday night, October 13: Eumenean—Affirmative: O. McCloy, Cunningham, and Honyecutt. Negative: J. R. Woods, Smith, and McCutcheon. Orations: J.
B. Woods and A. Brown.

At the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Society, Saturday night, the affirmative of the question: Resolved, That the American embargo
to neutral countries is justifiable, was upheld by T. N. Morton and E. R. Boney, who argued: (1) That the
embargo was necessary for self-preservation; and (2) that neutrals have been selling our products to Germany. The negative was defended
by L. L. Wilson and W. C. Cumming. Wilson contended that the embargo was (1) unnecessary, (2) unlawful, and (3)
unjust. Cumming defined the embargo as a law forbidding the shipment of certain restricted articles to foreign ports, and argued
for restriction of exports rather than the embargo. The decision committee decided in favor of the affirmative.

Following this debate there was an extemporaneous debate between D. R. Freeman and O. P. Hart. The subject was: Resolved,
That Latin and Greek should be required for an A.B. degree. Freeman upheld the affirmative and Hart the negative. The
decision committee decided in favor of the affirmative.

The society then went into the election of marshals, and the following men were elected: J. L. Fowle, chief marshal;
J. W. Clark, W. M. Currie, J. A. Thames, and F. G. Lilly, associate marshals.

Eumenean: The subject for debate last Saturday night was: Resolved, That the American embargo to neutral nations is justifiable. The
affirmative, composed of Hollingsworth, Burgess, and McGirt, argued (1) that it would cripple Germany and thus bring the war to
a speedy close; (2) it would reduce the high cost of living; (3) neutrals send part to Germany. The negative,
composed of Harrell, Brand, and Craig, argued (1) it is impracticable; (2) it is politically unwise; (3) it will mean
a death-blow to our trade in years to come; (4) it is morally unfair. Marshals elected from the Eumenean Society
were: Thomas, Flinn, Potts, and J. B. Woods, Jr.

UNCLE HIRAM’S TOMBSTONE ERECTED DURING SUMMER

All who knew “Old Uncle Hiram” will be interested to know that the tombstone erected to his memory by the
faculty and students was set up during the summer. The stone is of light gray marble and stands eighteen inches
high upon a base twelve by eighteen inches. It bears the inscription:

“Hiram Potts
1842-1917
Long a faithful servant of Davidson College
Erected by the Faculty and Students.”

Beneath this inscription is the following:

“His wife, Clara,
Died 1915.”

GOAL IS REACHED IN PARKER FUND CAMPAIGN

The fact that the student body has realized the eminence and worthiness of the work of sacrifice and service that
Mr. Parker, ‘11, is doing in Korea, was evidenced last week by the liberal response that was made in the
canvass. The subscriptions so far amount to $699.80. This amount will be increased when all the subscriptions come in, and
the rest of the men are seen. At present there is a great improvement over last year's subscriptions, although the
student body is smaller than last year by about ninety students. Last year, out of a student body of four
hundred, only $590 was subscribed; this year out of a student body of three hundred, $699.80 has been subscribed and
the canvassing has not been entirely completed. One hundred and thirty-eight dollars and eighty cents, or over one-fifth of the
whole amount, has already been collected. This fact is almost an assurance that the amount of $600, which has been
pledged, will be reached. It is hoped that every man, as a member of the student body, will feel obligated
to sign one of these cards, as the student body is pledged to pay the amount annually. It is also
hoped that the enthusiasm will not die down throughout the year.

GYMNASIUM FLOOR HAS BEEN COMPLETED

Because of the rain last week the work on the drain for the gymnasium was necessarily slow, but the interior
work has been progressing finely. The main floor is finished and will be readyFor use as soon as the poles
have been placed. The bannisters and porch have been finished and painted. The steam heating installations will be completed in
about a week. The shower-bath rooms are being tiled and made ready for use.

SINCE MA SIGNED UP WITH HOOVER.

The butcher's wagon isn’t seen so often at our door,
The grocer’s boy does not come round twice daily any more;
Our garden patch is flourishing, its truck is in demand—
What we can't consume of it is either dried or canned
Since Ma signed up with Hoover.

And upon our dinner table now there isn't so much meat;
There's always bread a-plenty, though it isn't always wheat;
We spread the butter thinner, too, and touch the sugar light—
For since we have begun the thing we mean to do it right:
For, Ma's signed up with Hoover.

The kids are well and happy—they think the change is great,
And each one tries to beat the rest in cleaning up his plate.
All think the grub is splendid; and Pa says he can see
He's not so fat and puffy as once he used to be,
‘Fore Ma signed up with Hoover.

“For if we all are going to help our allies win the fight,
We've got to feed ’em regular and got to feed ’em right,”
Says Ma, “so we won't waste a thing they will likely need,
And we'll make out on what is left and have a splendid feed”—
So she signs up with Hoover.

—Edward S. Jones, Newburg, Ind.

“The man that ‘tends strictly to his own business,” said Uncle Eben, “sometimes don't get no credit 'cep’ for bein’
unsociable." —Washington Star.

SEVERAL JOIN POCKET TESTAMENT LEAGUE

At the regular meeting of the Ministerial Band Sunday evening, the president, G. C. Bellingrath, '18, gave some very interesting
facts about ‘The Pocket Testament League,” its origin and what it is now doing. At the close of the meeting
an opportunity was given to the new men, who were not members, to join the league. Quite a number took
advantage of the opportunity. At the next meeting the question, “Shall a young man go directly from college to the
seminary, or drop out of school for a short time?” is going to be discussed. Several members volunteered to discuss
the different sides of this question; however, everyone will be given an opportunity to express his views.

GRADED SCHOOL OPENS.

The local public school opened Thursday with an enrollment of one hundred and thirty-four students. Twenty-nine of these were in
the high school department. Mr. R. H. Walker, of Stevensville, Va., a graduate of William and Mary College, is the
principal. Under him are Miss Mamie Withers, first grade; Miss Johnston, second grade; Miss Jetton, third grade; Miss Baskerville, fourth-fifth
grades; and Mrs. Johnston, fifth-sixth grades. In the high school department, Mr. Maude Vinson. All students were required to present
a signed health certificate.

JACK TAR MADE WITH ROLLING POINTS AND THE OVAL BUTTONHOLE 20c EACH 3 FOR 50c OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA UNITED
SHIRT & COLLAR CO., TROY, N.Y.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-J

Right Now I Will Mend Your Shoes All work done by myself and satisfaction guaranteed Remember my room number: 23
S. W. Chambers W. C. SMITH

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., ATLANTA, GA. 74 N. Broad St. In the Spalding line you have equipment that is
right officially, high grade as to workmanship and durable in quality. The SPALDING No. M BASKET BALL is perfect in
every detail. Catalogue on request.

THE COMMISSARY

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to
be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. Rutledge Norton Walker is assisted by Miss Next door
to Post Office.

BOOKS - STATIONERY - NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N.C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N.C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House

BOOKS - STATIONERY - NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A Nice Line of Pennants College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches and Alarm Clocks W. M. Torrence The Jeweler

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company Have on Display Their Trimmed Hats and a line of Velours
