The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 28, 1917. No. 20

Last Game of Season Lost to Statesville
Game Won in Last Five Minutes of Contest.

Davidson's basketball season of 1917 was closed on last Thursday night, when Statesville Y. M. C. A. won a close and hard-fought game played on the Statesville floor, by the score of 37 to 31. This was the deciding game of a series of three between these two teams, each having won a contest. The game was fast throughout, and the spectators were kept in suspense on account of the frequently tied score. Both teams were in excellent form, and every man deserves special mention for his good work. It was in the last five minutes of play that the Statesville five forged ahead and won the game. The line-up was as follows:

STATESVILLE. POSITION. DAVIDSON.
Holding .......... King
Strupper ........ Childs
Forwards
Etheridge ........ Hengeveld
Center
Morrison ........ Reese
Brady ............ Walker
Guards

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TO TAKE TRIP SOON

A. T. Cashion, manager of the Orchestra and Glee Club, has announced a very pleasant trip during the month of March. They will give a concert at Lenoir, Hickory, Marion, and two concerts in Asheville. One of the Asheville concerts will be given at the Asheville Normal, and the other for the benefit of the High School. This trip was taken last year, with the exception of the date at Hickory, and it is expected that the trip this time will prove even more pleasant and successful. There will probably be another trip taken about the middle of April, through South Carolina. On Saturday night of Junior Speaking, the Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert on the Hill, which will be one of the best that has ever been given here. It will be featured by Hawaiian songs, accompanied by guitars and ukuleles. Sometime in March, the Queens College Choral Club will give a recital in Shearer Hall under the auspices of the Orchestra and Glee Club.

NOTED LECTURER COMING.

The next faculty lecture will be given Tuesday, March 6th, at 7:30 p.m., in Shearer Hall, by Mr. L. O. Armstrong, a noted Canadian lecturer. While the definite subject of the lecture cannot be given just now, it is thought that it will be about “The Natural Resources and Industries of Canada.” Mr. Armstrong was a popular lecturer at the Panama Pacific Exposition, is well acquainted with Canadian matters and life, and has spent a number of years taking and collecting interesting pictures showing the subjects upon which he lectures.

H. S. Morgan, '17, left Monday for his home in Atlanta, to be at the bedside of his mother, who is very ill.

For Junior Speaking
All Plans For Annual Occasion Are Complete.

* Thursday, 7:30 p.m.—Speaking.
* Friday, 3:00 p.m.—Speaking.
* 4:30 p.m.—Basketball game, Varsity vs. All Stars.
* 7:30 p.m.—Speaking.
* Saturday, 10:00 a.m.—Speaking.
* 3:30 p.m.—Speaking.
* 4:30 p.m.—Faculty Reception.
* 7:00 p.m.—Concert.
* 9:00 p.m.—Fraternity Receptions.

The reception given by the Faculty in honor of the Junior class and their friends will follow the afternoon exercises in Shearer Hall Saturday. It will be as usual in the Library building.

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK

Fifty men from Davidson are wanted to go next week to Greensboro, to attend the North Carolina Student Volunteer Conference, to be held March 9th, 10th, and 11th. One of the main speakers is Dr. W. R. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., who conducted an enthusiastic revival among Davidson men year before last. Dr. Dobyns was also the man who led the quiet hour every night at the Laymen’s Missionary Convention in Charlotte. The only expense to the Davidson delegates who attend the conference will be railroad fare (round trip, $3.50), plus a one dollar registration fee. All entertainment and other expenses will be met by the conference. Many Davidson men have already signed up to go to this conference, and as there is not going to be a Y. M. C. A. conference this year, there’s no reason why fifty men from Davidson can’t attend this Greensboro conference. All who expect to go should see P. B. Price, 29 Rumple, at once, and secure advance registration.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

Among the forty new books received at the Library during the past week, the following books on Americanism and American ideas should prove particularly interesting to all students: “Americanization,” by Royal Dixon; “New Ideas in Business,” Ida M. Tarbell; “Efficient Living,” Edward Earle Purinton; “America and the New Epoch,” Steinmetz; “American Ideals,” Clayton S. Cooper; “Americanism, What Is It?” Hill.

FRESH FOOTBALL TEAM HAS PLEASANT “FEED”

The Freshman football squad, composed of Moore, Leyburn, Fetzer, Long, Inman, McMaster, Watt, Sizer, Harris, N. S., and T. G. Richards, Crawford, Hennessee, Taylor, Morton, and Davenport, held their “feed” last Saturday night. There was an abundant supply of good things to eat, which with speeches and merry-making, made the evening a pleasant one for all.

Program Announced
Another Scoreless Game!
News and Happenings In Class Foot Ball
Seniors Fail in Effort to Win Championship.

In a muddy and exciting game of football last SaturdayAfternoon, the Sophs and Seniors battled through four quarters without a score being made by either side, this being the fourth game out of the six played in the series which has resulted in a scoreless tie. This was the last scheduled game of the class football season, but as it leaves the Juniors and Seniors tied for the championship, a deciding game will probably be played, though this has not been determined as yet. The game was one of the hardest fought of the whole season. The heavy field and lack of practice on the part of both teams prevented it from being a first-class exhibition. The first half was played largely in the middle of the field, and neither team seemed to have the advantage. In the third quarter, however, the Sophs, after brilliant end runs by Johnson and line plunges by White, carried the ball to the Seniors’ 2-foot line, but the fourth-year men here secured the ball on downs and punted out of danger. In the last half, a large number of forward passes were tried, but most of these were either incomplete or intercepted by opposing players. Craig received a pretty one from Keesler and made a good gain for the Seniors. The stars for the Sophs were Johnson, White, and McAskill, while Keesler, Ratchford, and Miller played especially well for the Seniors. The line-up was as follows:

SOPHS, POSITION, SENIORS
McAskill........ RE...... Murray
Poole............ RT... McKinnon
Currie........... RG ...... Rankin
Clarke........... C ...... Miller
Worth........... LG ...... Brown
Knight.......... LT ...... Hughes
Boswell......... LE...... Mattison
Robson.......... QB... McKeithan
Johnson (C)..... RH ... Keesler (C)
Alexander....... LH........ Price
White........... FB..... Ratchford

Substitutes—Sophs: J. Mack for Robson; Potts for Clarke; R. C. Miller for Potts; Clarke for Miller; Miller for Currie; Johnson for Miller. Seniors: Craig for Ratchford. Referee: Fetzer; Umpire: Black; Head linesman: Walker; Timekeepers: Paisley and McAlister.

FRESHMEN ARE GIVEN COURSE IN EXPRESSION

An innovation has been established in the Freshman English class which bids fair to be very successful. Through the efforts of the Faculty, the services of Prof. George S. Fulbright, who conducted a volunteer class in expression here last year, have been secured to teach the same subject this spring. He arrived on the 20th of this month. The course consists of eight lessons and is given to the Freshmen in place of their regular English work. The students are very well pleased and delighted to have such an opportunity offered to them. Professor Fulbright will also teach a class of the upper-classmen, provided enough volunteer.

Of The Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About The Town People

Rev. J. W. Clark, who for the past week has been conducting the meetings at the local Presbyterian Church, left last Monday morning. Dr. Clark goes to his home in Hickory, where he will be several days before he starts another series of services.

Friends will be glad to learn that Mr. L. B. Long, who conducts a grocery store in town, is out again after a serious attack of pneumonia.

Mr. H. B. Holcomb, agent for the Southern Railway, is again at his post of duty, after an attack of the mumps.

Last week Dr. W. R. Grey attended the exercises in connection with the inauguration of Prof. W. C. Riddick as president of A. & M. College, in Raleigh. Dr. Grey went as a representative of Davidson College.

Announcement has been made by the firm of Goodrum & Co., that there will be in Davidson on March 1st, two ladies, Mrs. W. S. Wallace, of Greenville, Tenn., and Miss Ellen Brough, of Harrisburg, Pa., who will open a millinery establishment in connection with their business. Further announcement as to the exact date of opening will be given in The Davidsonian at a later date.

Friends have been grieved to learn of the serious condition of Isaac White, the little two-year-old son of Mr. Lex White, who resides near Davidson. The little fellow was burned yesterday a week ago and is in a serious condition.

PATTON SPEAKS AT Y.M.C.A. MEETING

The address before the Y.M.C.A. on last Thursday night was given by J. G. Patton, '16, now at Union Theological Seminary, upon the subject, “A Call to the Gospel Ministry.” The speaker pointed out first the things in which the minister may excel in service to God and to man more than can the physician, the lawyer, or the businessman. He next outlined the great need for more men in the field in order to properly carry on the work of the Kingdom, and in this connection outlined the character of the men who are required for the work, emphasizing the fact that they must be consecrated, strong, self-sacrificing, and devoted to the work. Next, the duties of the minister were given and the services which he may render to man both spiritually and physically as well as in matters of education, politics, and social reform. The responsibilities of the minister were next presented and then the rewards of the ministry. The address was concluded with a plea to come out on the Lord’s side and dedicate to God's service the life that has been given to every creature.

Miss Cornelia Dowd and Mr. Morehead Jones, of Charlotte, were on the campus Sunday.