COACH DONAHUE. SIXTH SUCCESSIVE VICTORY (Continued from page 1)

moment later. Davidson, 14; Clemson, 9. Davidson scored again in this period, when, after the ball had been regained from Clemson on Davidson's 1-yard line, consistent line bucks worked it up to the middle of the field, and Spann hurled a perfect pass to Buck Flowers for a 20-yard gain, and the All-Southern halfback scurried through the broken Clemson team for the remaining 30 yards and a third touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 21; Clemson, 9. And so the game closed, although Davidson threatened once more to score in the last quarter, failing only on account of the expiration of time. It was a final triumphant display of Coach Fetzer’s superb forward-pass plays, and a victory closing one of the greatest seasons of Davidson football. By defeating Clemson, the acknowledged champions of South Carolina, Davidson established herself as the champion of all the Carolinas, and the best team, outside of the wonderful Tech outfit, in the entire South. Her season, which opened with such dismal prospects, has been one uninterrupted march of glory from the date of the Y. M. C. A. victory in Charlotte, and it was fitting that her winning streak of six straight victories over the best teams in the South should end where it began, in Charlotte.

The game was played as follows:

FIRST QUARTER. Captain Witzel, of Clemson, won the toss and elected to defend the east goal. Grey kicked off for Davidson to Banks on Clemson's 5-yard line, and Clemson’s brilliant halfback ran around and through the entire Davidson team for a 90-yard run, being downed on the 6-yard line by Grey. Davidson penalized 5 yards for offside. A line play failed to gain, and then Banks bucked left guard for a touchdown. Witzel kicked goal. Clemson, 7; Davidson, 0. Gee kicked off for Clemson to Elliott on the 45-yard line, and Davidson recovered Elliott's fumble. Burns made 3 yards over right guard, Flowers 3 around left end, and Grey punted 50 yards over the goal line. The ball was put in scrimmage on the 20-yard line. Bartles made 3 around right end, Armstrong hit left tackle for 5, and Davidson was penalized 5 yards for offside play. Banks made 2 yards over right tackle, but failed to gain around right end. Thackston punted 33 yards to Flowers, who returned 10 yards. McAlister sliced 3 yards through right guard, Spann made 4 around right end, but McAlister was thrown for a 2-yard loss on an attempted run around left end. Grey punted 50 yards to Banks, who was downed in his tracks. Banks made 3 over right guard, Bartles 6 around right end, and Bartles 1 and first down over right guard. Clemson was penalized 15 yards for holding. Bartles ripped off 21 yards around left end, and Armstrong hit right tackle for 5 yards and first down. Bartles failed to gain around right end. King intercepted a forward pass, but fumbled and Banks recovered the ball for an 8-yard loss. First down for Clemson. Bartles made 4 over left tackle, Armstrong 3 over right guard, and Banks sliced through right tackle for a 20-yard gain. Armstrong hit center for 1 yard. Banks failed to gain around left end. Clemson was penalized 15 yards. A forward pass, Witzel to Thackston, netted 20 yards. It was the only gain that Clemson made on a forward pass in the entire game. A forward pass was incomplete, and Davidson secured the ball on downs. Flowers made 1 around left end, Burns 2 over left tackle, and Burns 0 overLeft guard. Grey punted 35 yards to Banks. Armstrong hit left guard for 4, Bartles failed to gain over center, Bartles was thrown for a 6-yard loss around right end, and Thackston punted 25 yards out of bounds. Flowers ripped 8 yards off around right end, and McAlister duplicated the play and gain around left end. A forward pass, Spann to Flowers, netted no gain. A pass, Spann to Burns, gained 2 yards, a second pass was incomplete, and a third pass, Spann to King, gained 11 yards. Quarter up. Score: Clemson, 7; Davidson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER. Davidson’s ball on Clemson’s 35-yard line. On a line play, the ball was fumbled, Potts recovering. Bartles failed to gain around right end; Davidson was penalized 5 yards. Banks fumbled behind the line for a 10-yard loss, regaining the ball, however. Banks lost 2 yards around right end. Thackston punted 10 yards, a Clemson man touching the ball as it rolled in Davidson territory. Burns made 1 over left guard. Spann was thrown for an 8-yard loss on a forward pass play which was broken up. Davidson was penalized 15 yards. A pass, Spann to King, netted 28 yards. A second pass was incomplete, and Clemson got the ball on downs. Bartles made (Continued on page 6)

The card that accompanies your gift should be
Engraved
Neatly Printed
And, by the way, Cards are always acceptable as a gift. Solve your “what to give” problem by giving Cards this year. Place your order early.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
O. J. THIES, Jr., Davidson Representative

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing
Z. K. JUSTICE

December 5, 1917

...Go to...
Armour Bro.’s & Thompson’s for Dr. Munsing’s Army Last Black Shoes

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky
Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life for students. Write the President Charles R. Hemphill

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

L. C. BRAND, DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

See H. L. WAHAB
BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

JACK TAR & NEW STYLE FOR FALL AND WINTER
20c EACH 3 FOR 50c 12 FOR $2
Lion Collars
BEST BRAND
UNITED SHIRT & COLLAR CO., TROY, N. Y.

If it’s FARMLANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want
Thies-Smith Realty Co.,
200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Thos. E. Wilson & Co. unconditionally guarantee all their sporting goods and athletic equipment to give the satisfactory service which you think they should give. We leave the decision to you. Your own sense of fair play decides. Our dealers are authorized to abide by your judgment, and to adjust any claim you make.

Official and Standard Athletic Equipment
Be sure you find the Wilson trade mark on your Football Equipment, Basketball equipment, Sweaters, Shoes, Indoor League Balls, Bats and Equipment, Golf Clubs, Golf Balls and Equipment, Tennis, Track and Gymnasium Equipment, Fishing Tackle, etc.

MECKLENBURG and STONEWALL AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Rates: $1.00 and Up
J. P. SAUNDERS, President