The Davidsonian

CORRECTION. Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. A correction is noted. In the
Phi Society, it is “Junior Society” instead of “Freshman Society.”

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone........ Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
L. M. Thomas
R. E. McClure
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Dafin
Mawacemegn Woods
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
T. C. Stone
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Tove, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

Our football team has won the heart of the student body of Georgia Tech. They praise it and say that
it is a marvel how such a “little team” (as one Tech fellow expressed it) can fight. We go to
them with a strong team and a clean, sportsmanlike spirit which will again be the admiration of all who see
the eleven work.

Do you attend the “Pep” meetings? If not, a fine treat of thirty minutes is missed. Nothing keeps up college
spirit more than getting together and singing snappy, college songs of sentiment and victory. There is an inkling that a
new song will be practiced soon. There is a need that these songs—old and new—be sung, and sung with a
zest.

Interesting, forceful, appealing, and to the point is the nature of the sermons Dr. Richards has been preaching since college
opened. At the Sunday morning service, he brought a “Plea and an Argument,” the plea being that one make the
Commandments of God the rule of their life. And this rule to be followed steadfastly and consistently. The argument was
that it was both profitable and practical to adopt the Commandments as the rule of life. The appeals seem to
increase in earnestness and forcefulness from Sunday to Sunday. Such sermons to college men would be difficult to duplicate.

“Wide is the range of language; and such words as one may speak, another may return.” —Homer.

If your paper is late again this week, as it was last, please bear patiently with us (as we should
do with the express company) for parcels are so congested in the Charlotte office that we cannot get them from
the publisher as we should. However, we hope that arrangements have been made for better service.

“Ain't” cannot stay on a placard tacked on one of the trees on the campus. Wonder if it can remain
in one’s vocabulary.

The Magazine has adopted a new system of editing the literary publication of the student body. This system is composed
of an editorial board and reporters’ staff similar to the organization of The Davidsonian. An account of this change and
a statement of the purpose of this publication is printed in this issue. This, in our estimation, will work admirably,
for a writer can often write something which is assigned to him, when otherwise he would not call upon his
creative faculty for a story, poem, essay, or any form of literature. We congratulate them for adopting this new system
and feel sure that the editor will give us a high-grade magazine—which is the standard here.

At the Christian EndeavorSociety. Sunday evening, J. L. Fowle, '18, made a very interesting and helpful talk on “Christ's Yoke.”
Mr. Fowle spoke of how everyone must wear a yoke. “If one does not wear the yoke of Christ, the
Devil will have one ready for him.” The speaker made a strong appeal to all the boys to take Christ’s
yoke upon them because He would help them bear their load and lead pure lives.

PEP MEETING HELD LAST WEDNESDAY NIGHT

The State Council of National Defense has adopted a unique scheme in which college men can take part. This part
is to help mold public opinion in regard to creating whatever interest we can wherever we can in regard to
the larger acreage for wheat. College men can do this in many ways. One way is to tell about the
need, for surely with access to reports and magazines which are universally distributed, the college man can obtain facts not
accessible to the farmer the country over. Those who live on the farm can write optimistically about the return in
the spring and that “Plant all you can, I will be there for saving it.” Dr. Martin, in his appeal
before the student body Monday morning, well said that our nation is the “feeding storehouse.” The Government requests that agriculturists
buy their commercial fertilizers early and have them moved early. There are two reasons for this: later, they will be
relatively higher in price and transportation facilities will be lessened. Let us do our bit in response to an appeal
from the Government.

Last Wednesday night a rousing “pep” meeting was held in Shearer Hall to show the football team that the student
body was behind them in the football game with State College. The college yells, led by “Amo” Love, were given
for the team and for individual players. After these had been given, several students made short speeches in praise of
the team.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY

The following are the new books in the library on American Colleges and Universities: “Life at the United States Naval
Academy,” Earle; “History of Williams College,” Leverett Wilson. The following is a complete list of the “American College and University
Series,” as far as has been published: “Princeton,” Collins; “Illinois,” Nevins; “Columbia,” Kepple; “Vassar,” Taylor and Haight; “Howard,” Gardner.

In the last issue, in the article about the DAVIDSONIAN, October 10, 1917

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
THE FLORIST, Inc.
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
ON DRUG COMPANY, Agent

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.
