The DAVIDSONIAN
October 17, 1917

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People

Lewis Johnson, who is with a medical unit of the troops at Camp Sevier, is spending a few days with
his parents.

* * *

Miss Georgia Robertson, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Miss Graham Gibson. She rendered a special solo at the morning
service of the Presbyterian Church. Her father, Rev. G. F. Robertson, '78, is an evangelist of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

* * *

At a meeting of the ladies of the town held in the Presbyterian church last Monday afternoon, plans were laid
to see that every Davidson man in Government service receives a Christmas present.

About 5 o'clock Saturday afternoon, a fire in the southern part of Davidson destroyed the home of a colored family,
causing the death of a two-year-old child. The fire was caused by careless playing with matches. The building was owned
by Dr. J. W. Summers, of Charlotte.

Spencer Cranford spent Sunday with his parents.

“Bob” Harding came up to Davidson on Sunday afternoon with his father to be at home for a short while.

Rev. and Mrs. C. K. Cumming, of Toyohashi, Japan, parents of W. P. Cumming, '21, are expected to be in
Davidson with Mrs. Cumming’s sister, Mrs. Caldwell, until their return to their work on the mission field.

CAMPUSIUMS.

J. B. Caldwell, ’20, and F. G. Heath, '24, spent the weekend at home.

C. G. Brown, '20, visited friends near Charlotte, Saturday and Sunday of the past week.

W. I. Knox, '21, was called to Statesville Tuesday on account of the death of his aunt.

T. W. Hawkins, '18; N. Y. Pharr, '19; R. B. Peters, '18; O. J. Thies, Jr., '18, and Tom Misenheimer,
'18, spent Sunday in Charlotte.

C. V. Garth, M.A., and R. C. Garth, '19, spent Sunday with their parents in Hickory.

Harry Caldwell witnessed the Davidson-Georgia Tech game Saturday in Atlanta.

* * *

Dr. S. (in Bible) — What is the Canon?
Freshman — Canon? er, a cannon is a hole with brass poured around it.

TWO HUNDRED UNIFORMS ORDERED BY STUDENTS

Measurements for the uniforms were taken last week and the suits will probably arrive here within the next ten days.
The measurements were taken last Thursday by a representative of Belk Brothers, Charlotte, under the direction of Captain Lea and
his assistants. About 200 students were measured, approximately 100 of these being Freshmen, 70 Sophomores, and the remainder Juniors and
Seniors taking Applied Math.

The arrival of the uniforms will greatly facilitate drilling and will improve the appearance of the quads.

OMICRON KAPPA DELTA HOLDS INITIATION

At a meeting of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society last week the following men were initiated: J. A. Thames, J.
B. Daffin, J. W. Clark, and Mr. F. L. Jackson. Thames was a member of the old Gryphon order, which
was merged into the Omicron Delta Kappa last spring, but was absent at the time of initiation.

Omicron Delta Kappa is a national honorary fraternity, the local organization being known as the Delta circle. It draws its
members from men in the upper classes who have achieved distinction in one or more of the following five phases
of collegiate activity: Scholarship or marked proficiency in one or more collegiate departments; athletics, both local and intercollegiate; social leadership,
including conspicuous service to the institution; literary societies and intercollegiate contests; and publications. By drawing the leaders of these various
branches together in one organization, the society strives to uphold and advance all the best interests of the college and
its activities.

The complete membership of the local circle is as follows: J. R. Woods, J. L. Fowle, Andrew Brown, A. P.
Saunders, J. W. Clark, J. B. Daffin, E. L. M. Thomas, J. A. Thames, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. W.
J. Martin, Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Dr. M. E. Sentelle.

In these days of unrest, with the Allies fighting our battles for us while we prepare to pounce down as
a unit upon our enemies, we wonder what will next startle us, and see the so-thought immutable assume new attributes;
further, cultivated fields, giving promise of a bountiful crop, become beehives of activity—cantonments. Fertilizer factories become ammunition works. Our peace-loving
people have been horrified by the reported outrages of the German Government; and their patriotism, cosmopolitan patriotism that it is,
drives them to temporarily abandon peace, and enter war whole-heartedly, with the purpose of re-establishing, on a firmer, more righteous
basis, the rule of the right over might.

To cite one quite unexpected change: Davidson College has made military drill compulsory for the two lower classes, and has
instituted an elective course in military science for the two upper classes. No doubt this is a most insignificant change
in the eye of the Nation, but it interests those who are interested in Davidson.

College athletics are topsy-turvy; Davidson's are also in the whirl. The former “Red and Black Machine” has been destroyed by
both graduation from college and withdrawal of students to join the Army. What will the new “machine,” now in the
process of construction, be able to do with its opponents? What will Davidson do in local and intercollegiate contests?de-hating amid
the perturbed conditions? Where are your classmates and friends that you met on the old campus? What are they doing?
In short, what is the status of affairs with Davidson and everything Davidsonian in these days of history-making unrest?

Preparedness has long been a subject of discussion. It has been decided that we must prepare and fight. This is
a national decision, but it applies locally as well. Amid the struggles of the nations for existence and the furtherance
of righteousness, some (but few, it seems) see a local struggle, insignificant nationally, maybe, but vital to Davidson; and it
is a struggle just as earnest, as sincere, as hard, as noble of purpose, and as high in aim as
that of the Nation. I refer to the struggle for existence on the part of THE Davidsonian. Since its founding
four years ago, it has had a fight for continuance; this year it is facing and fighting against greater odds.
The student body is reduced; advertisers are wary; costs of production are high. Alumni subscriptions are lacking. One Alumnus, who
forbids us to use his name, saw the worth of the paper, subscribed, and paid for his subscription with a
$100 check. That was an immense help, but not enough to publish thirty issues of the paper this year. We
are not asking every Alumnus to do that much for THE Davidsonian. Many are well able to do this, and
several should. However, we want this fact sent straight home: the life of the six-page paper hangs in the balance;
the continuance of even a four-page paper is questionable; neither is possible without the support of the Alumni; either is
possible with the co-operative backing of the Alumni: consequently the size, character, and quality of THE Davidsonian will be in
proportion to the support that you, an Alumnus of Davidson College, give it.

We are not asking your support in a worthless cause; read the extracts from the three Alumni letters in this
issue—they will give you an idea of how loyal, interested Alumni ought to feel toward THE Davidsonian. How do you
feel about it? Take into consideration the fact that the members of the editorial board spend hours each week preparing
the paper for press; then estimate the time that it takes the circulation department to get THE Davidsonian delivered to
its subscribers; next, remember that every undergraduate student is a subscriber; now weigh the matter carefully: If the undergraduate students,
the circulation management, and editorial board can do so much for THE Davidsonian, isn’t it the least that a loyal
Alumnus can do to subscribe to it for the coming year? It will be $1.25 well invested.

I am not a “calamity howler; I know what the publication of the paper will cost, and how much we
have in view with which to pay for it. We are short funds. The income from subscriptions must pay publication
expenses during the first half of the year; it is not right to call on our advertisers until later. You
see our need: Paid in subscriptions, NOW. Let's not let THE Davidsonian go to the wall. We're counting on you,
Alumni!

O. J. Thies, Jr.
Business Manager.

DR. MARTIN ADDRESSES THE FRESHMAN CLASS

Last Thursday at 7 o'clock Dr. Martin made a very appropriate address to the Freshman Class. He urged them, now
that they were thrown on their own responsibility, to make the best use of their time in the next four
years. He said that the primary object of a college man is to increase and cultivate his intellectual powers, and
suggested that every man make out a schedule for preparation of each day's lessons, and cultivate the power of concentration.
After Dr. Martin had finished, J. B. Daffin, president of the Senior Class, made a short talk in which he
explained the meaning of the Honor System at Davidson.
