2 The DAVIDSONIAN, January 31, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
William Love, M. A. Siske, O. C. Williamson, J. B. Woods, H. T. Lilly, T. C. Stone, T. N. Morton,
R. W. Cousar, C. Hunter, R. D. Hall.

MANAGEMENT.
J. R. Woods
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley....... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr....... Assistant Managers.
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

The posts and strings in the woods behind Chambers are hopeful signs.

“Dave” Hudson seems bent on putting a little life in the Eu Society.

Somehow the Juniors were proud that they held the Sophs, and the Sophs rejoice that the Juniors didn’t win.

Full many a star play is made to go unseen, and waste its energy on the football line.

WHY NOT?

College, especially one of Davidson's type, is, out of classrooms, an almost perfect example of a republic. The students, citizens
of this commonwealth, govern themselves, make their own laws, and elect their own officers. There is every essential of a
well-organized, democratic government in college, and rightly so. College men, who will be the leaders in the national government in
the future, should receive training in this line. And it is essential that this government be as perfect as possible.

There is one weakness in the one as it stands at Davidson; that is, it has no nominating system. In
all important Federal and State elections, the candidates for office are elected. Every large organization here, except the student body
and classes as a whole, has some means by which its officers are nominated. Some nominating system should be worked
out for these. Not only will this result in a more perfect government, but it will eliminate a great risk
that is run every year, for when men are nominated by anybody, in fun or in earnest, on the spur
of the moment, there is danger of electing unwittingly an undesirable man. This is no slap at present officers. They
are, fortunately, the right ones. But so long as there is no nominating system, when men are nominated after careful
deliberation, rather than by whim, this risk will remain.

Professor—Have you read Smith?
Red S.—No.
Professor—What have you read?
Red S.—I have red hair.

The following are extracts from a letter The Davidsonian has recently received from the American Ambulance Field Service, and are
self-explanatory. Further information as to this work, if there are any Davidson students interested, may be secured from J. A.
Thames, or by writing to the addresses mentioned:

To the Editor:
May I ask the privilege of your columns to call to the attention of your readers the pending formation by
the American Ambulance Field Service in France of several new sections and the opportunity which will be available during the
next few months for an additional number of volunteers who are interested in France and who would like to be
of service there?

We have already more than 200 cars driven by American volunteers, mostly university men, grouped in sections which are attached
to divisions of the French army. These sections have served at the front in Flanders, on the Somme, on the
Aisne, in Champagne, at Verdun (five sections including 120 cars at the height of the battle), in Lorraine and in
reconquered Alsace, and one of our veteran sections has received the signal tribute fromthe French army staff of being attached
to the French army of the Orient in the Balkans. We are now on the point of greatly enlarging our
service for the last lap of the war, and a considerable number of new places are available. Information as to
the requirements of and qualifications for the service will be gladly sent by Henry D. Sleeper, from the Boston Headquarters
of the Field Service, at Lee Higginson & Co., 40 State Street, or may be obtained from Wm. R. Hereford,
at the New York Headquarters, 14 Wall Street.

WHAT YOU OUGHT TO READ IN CURRENT MAGAZINES
Harper’s Monthly: “My Trip to the Front,” by Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt.
World’s Work: “Japan Acts China,” by Jenks; “The Next Years of the Navy,” by Fiske.
Review of Reviews: “Austria-Hungary—Past, Present, and Future.”
Scribner's Magazine: “A Naturalist in a Tropical Laboratory,” by Roosevelt.

GET TO WORK!
President Theodore Haynes and the faculty are making a strenuous effort to remove the indolent and don't-care spirit prevailing among
some students. Every teacher insists upon work being done and reported on by a certain time. But, unfortunately, that old
spirit of Fabius, the delayer, still survives. The habit of putting off has spread through the student body like some
contagious disease, leaving no one entirely free. A composition which should be handed in today is now usually written tomorrow.
An experiment to be completed this week may be finished next, and a lesson which ought to be studied tonight
is put off till morning. The frequent practice of waiting and delaying soon becomes a pernicious habit which stifles our
ambitions, dulls our intellect, and impedes our future progress. We should make one united effort toward freeing ourselves from the
clutches of this our recognized enemy.—Ex.

“Why is it college men misspell so often?”
“Probably because they pay more attention to the miss than they do to the spell."—Chicago Record-Herald.

Soph—Have you a minute to spare?
Fresh—Sure.
Soph—Tell me all you know.—Ex.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING
that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

216 N. Tryon St. Phone 643
“Every Job a Good One”
See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY
Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.
Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

FOR THAT FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

TALBOT & ARROW formfit COLLARS are curve cut to fit the neck - 6 for 90¢

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes
General Merchandise
Schloss Clothing
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES

Quality Counts
That’s why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
R. B. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

Alex. Taylor & Co.
THE COMMISSARY
