2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
F. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames........ Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. E. McClure
M. Thomas, Jr.
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional Reporters for this issue are W. P. Cumming, V. D. Johnson, W. C. Knight, J. R. Boulware, F. L.
Knight, J. E. Sanders, W. C. Smith, W. H. Harrell, and F. G. Heath.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

Liberty Loan Day. Davidson College Day follows. Let pure speech liberate you from a sordid vocabulary.

“One's religion is what he is most interested in.” —Barrie.

“In every play it matters little what the author has conceived and written, if it is not vitalized by the
actor.”—H. A. Jones.

“If you want to ‘get somewhere,’ go in one direction. If you undertake something, do that one thing.”—F. W. Woolworth.

“Bankers find it safer to loan $10,000 to a man who employs system in his business, than $1,000 to a
man who does not."—A. W. Shaw.

“When you want to ‘cuss,’ go to whistling.” This piece of philosophy was found written on a page of “Classical
Moralists.” Probably some alumnus will know about its authorship.

He whose blood does not rankle by hearing Dr. McConnell’s exposition of “Our Case Against Germany” is a slacker. This
talk is lucid, direct, intensely patriotic and should be heard by every American.

This is a week of too many good things. “It never rains but what it pours”—which is reversed for the
week.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY.

Governor Bickett, the great War Governor of North Carolina, comes to us tomorrow on our memorial day. He is an
entertaining speaker and we are honored to have him for this occasion. Probably no state executive is more alive to
the peculiar condition of the day than is Mr. Bickett.

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 24, 1917

It is regretted that the uniforms are not here so that he could review our military student body.

Dr. Wright, a former ranchman, the Indian evangelist, is a power. He holds his audience while he gives it a
lucid, powerful, and practical sermon. His personality is winning, giving force and earnestness to his direct appeals. He has all
the sagacity and intensity which is characteristic of his nationality. In his opening sermon, he endeared himself to all who
heard his plea that each one examine himself. He says that he is “glad to be with men.” There is
a warm and hearty welcome for Dr. Wright and Mr. Young, who is making the services more delightful with his
solos and by his leadership in the song service.

THE FACULTY QUOTA.

The Davidson College Faculty is certainly doing its bit in service. Dr. Fulton is actively engaged in raising a great
Y. M. C. A. fund. His service to this committee will be invaluable. Dr. Lingle, formerly of the faculty, is
now in Y. M. C. A. work near “the top.” Dr. J. W. McConnell, formerly of the faculty, has been
released to become a specialist (one of twenty in the United States) in the great base hospital at Columbia. President
Martin is Chairman of the State Committee of Research. He is intensely interested in this work. Dr. J. M. McConnell
is doing a great deal in stirring citizens to a higher pitch of patriotism and is aiding in every possible
way to stimulate even greater interest in the Liberty Loan Fund Bond being launched. Other faculty members are advising students
as to their position.

DR. FULTON CONNECTED WITH Y. M. C. A. WORK.

With Dr. Lingle in France and Dr. Fulton at home in America, both working for the Y. M. C. A.,
Davidson College is furnishing her share of workers to that organization. Dr. Lingle is doing the regular Y. M. C.
A. work in France, and Dr. Fulton is connected with the raising of a $300,000 fund here in America. He
is on the committee formed for the purpose of raising this amount and is looking after the extension of this
great campaign. Associated with him in this publicity work is Mr. Baker, of Charlotte. Dr. Fulton is very interested in
this work and is devoting a great deal of time to it. As Dr. Martin is on the “North Carolina
Committee of Research,” and Dr.J. W. McConnell in the medical corps of the army, and Dr. Lingle and Dr. Fulton
doing Y. M. C. A. work, there is a great patriotic service being done by the faculty of Davidson College.

ELISE HIGH SCHOOL CLUB IS ORGANIZED

On Saturday night the Elise High School Club met and organized for the year. The following officers were elected: M.
A. Thompson, President; A. Currie, Vice-President; F. L. Knight, Secretary; W. C. Knight, “Pecuniae Conservator;” L. L. Edgerton, Bandmaster; E.
N. Booker, Toastmaster; V. D. Johnson, Feminist. After the business meeting, the club partook of a delightful repast. After this,
Johnson and Edgerton led some popular and college songs. The pep was the merrier because they were accompanied by the
harp and violin. The meeting closed with a yell for “feed” and one for “Elise.”

O. J. Thies, Jr., '18, and C. W. Robinson, '21, spent Sunday at their homes in Charlotte.

DISCUSSED BY MR. SPEIR

Mr. Speir, of Charlotte, addressed the Y. M. C. A. Thursday night as the speaker in the life work series
to be given this fall. Mr. Speir’s subject was “The Christian Business Man.” He began by saying that all should
be acquainted with the happenings of the business world. Even those not contemplating business as a life’s work should know
men who are really accomplishing things. A marked change is taking place in the business methods of today. A new
consciousness is coming to outstanding men. Financial kings and other marked men are beginning to feel that they are only
trustees. A modern Christian business man has his old feeling of selfishness crowded out by a real desire for service.
Mr. Speir told of several Christian business men who have given up large salaries to accept much smaller ones and
in some cases even none at all, in order to satisfy that desire to serve. Notable were the stories of
Mr. Bryan, a brilliant newspaper editor, and Mr. Crossett, a very successful shoe manufacturer, who gave up their incomes and
prospects for bright futures that they might better serve their fellow countrymen in arms. Such service is inspired by the
teachings of the greatest of all servers of mankind. The principles of Jesus are creeping into business more and more,
and the greatest and most successful business men are the ones who follow His teachings. Mr. Speir closed by appealing
for manhood, urging all to have the courage and strength to choose lives like these big men and serve their
fellows by living up to the Golden Rule in business. “Let us not trust in uncertain riches,” said Mr. Speir,
“but let us seek to obtain the exceeding riches of grace through Christ Jesus.”

REGISTRATION DAY FOR WOMEN WORKERS

On Saturday, October 27, from 3 to 5 p.m., the Woman's Committee of the National Council of Defense has arranged
a registration of all women in America who are willing to answer a call for service from the Government. It
is purely voluntary. Each one registering states in what line she prefers to serve, whether trained or amateur, present occupation,
where employed, education, date after which she will be willing to serve if called for, and whether it will be
voluntary or paid service she seeks. The registration card explains itself fully. The cards for North Carolina will be kept
at headquarters in readiness for future needs. In the Deweese Township Unit of the Mecklenburg Division, Miss Essie Jetton is
chairman of the registration work. For the village of Davidson and the upper part of the township, the Civic Club
Hall will be used as the place of registration.

MUCH INTEREST SHOWN IN MINISTERIAL BAND

The subject under discussion at the Ministerial Band meeting last Sunday was what a man sacrificed when he entered the
ministry. The discussion was led by D. R. Freeman and H. B. Dendy, who pointed out that although men might
have to give up some ambition of their own, or some future their parents might wish for them, it was
really a privilege to labor for the Master in the ministry. In the open discussion that followed, the same point
was stressed that as the joys of the ministry so far outweigh any sacrifices that might be made, it was
a great privilege to enter the ministry.

NOW is the time to place your order for Engraved Cards For the Senior Speaking. Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. 216
N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. O. J. THIES, Jr., Local Representative

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit— The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson Men

Reaches QUICKLY and CONVENIENTLY, With Frequent and Splendidly Equipped Trains All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST Pullman Sleeping Cars and
Dining Car Service On ALL THROUGH TRAINS Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points Special Attention
Given To Athletic Trips For detailed information, call on or write S. E. BURGESS, Division Passenger Agent, Charlotte, N. C.
THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTH
