OUR CONTEMPORARIES.

The Gamecock—Bishop John C. Kilgo, former president of Trinity College, has been selected to deliver the baccalaureate sermon at the
1917 Commencement Exercises of the University of South Carolina.

The Cadet—The V. M. I. Cadets acted as personal escort to Governor Stuart at the Inauguration of President Wilson on
March 5th. They made a fine showing in the parade, and were cheered continuously and heartily throughout the line of
march.

Winthrop Weekly News—The Student Volunteer Conference of South Carolina was recently held at Winthrop College. One hundred and twenty delegates
attended, representing nineteen colleges of the State. Speakers of national reputation addressed the gathering, and great inspiration was derived.

The Gamecock—Newberry College won the basketball championship of South Carolina from the Gamecocks in a close and hard-fought game by
the score of 44 to 33. Both teams had made an excellent record throughout the season, and this was the
deciding game for the State championship.

The International Polity Bulletin—If the United States is not in war at the time, the third annual conference of the
Federation of International Polity Clubs will probably be held at Williams College, Williamstown, Mass., from June 26th to July 5th.
Davidson will have two representatives at this conference, and these will be chosen by the local Polity Club at an
early date.

SOPH FOOTBALL “FEED.”

The Sophomore football squad held its annual “feed” in the Social Center last Friday night. The feed was some later
than the other teams’ owing to the fact that several members of the squad have been “off the Hill.” The
members of the squad present were: Captain Johnston, Clarke, McAskill, Boswell, Worth, “Dub” Johnson, Knight, Poole, White, Robson, Alexander, Faires,
Currie, Miller, Howell, and Menzies. An abundance of eats had been secured by Manager Burns, and the players were fully
rewarded for their hard work. After the feed, all present were entertained with a demonstration by Alexander on “The correct
way to smoke a cigar.” Just before dispersing, the squad gave “155” for ‘19.

“DON'TS.” (Continued from last week)

19. Don’t separate an auxiliary verb from its verb or participle unless you are using more than one auxiliary with
one verb. Do not say “This should never happen,” although it is true. “This never should happen” is equally true
and is also correct. But you may say “This should never have happened,” if you like it better than “This
never should have happened.”

20. Don’t forget that skipping about from tense to tense—commingling past, present, and future—in one time and paragraph, has not
even a Bergsonian justification. It is blasphemous, ungrammatical, and annoying.

21. Don’t forget that a sentence into which you have put more than fifty words is probably awkward and unclear.

22. Don’t fail after you have written a sentence to look it over and translate it into ideas (if you
can), and decide whether or not it tells the reader anything.

23. Don’t fail to go over paragraphs diligently, and relentlessly “thin out” words. A good writer takes a hint from
a good gardener.

24. Don’t think that atrocities are pardonable and may be imitated if they are committed in books written by Presidents
of the United States who are known as “stylists” or “authors.” Abraham Lincoln would have said something brief and appropriate
about “stylists” if he had been called one. He wrote because he had something to say and wanted to be
understood. A good writer addresses persons who have to comprehend, to decide, and to act. “Stylists” write for publishers, posterity,
and Chautauqua circles.

25. Don’t believe that “up-to-date” American school teachers, college professors, and “educators,” with occasional exceptions, know how to use the
English language. They don’t. If you want to learn to write well, ransack garrets and old bookshops for grammars and
textbooks of rhetoric that were publishedbefore 1875, and study them diligently.

THE FORUM.
(Continued from page 5)

students, self-government, activities, and everything else. The real truth of the matter is that if student government is to exist,
it must be complemented by the Faculty. After all, should the student body decide whether or not hazing or drinking
will take place here? Are there not certain laws which young men should obey even though they do rebel? And
can that be done unless the Faculty is the ultimate source of power? This is usually a true situation. The
Faculty actually does back up the council. But there is friction because its power to do so is not formally
recognized. This recognition should be made and put in the constitution.

In the second place, each individual student should feel his own personal responsibility to report cases to the council. This
is the base rock of the Honor System. Remove it and the whole scheme will collapse.

In the third place, our Moral Code must be revised completely. The framers of the present code believed that it
should be made indefinite so that each council should be able to exercise its own opinion. In a monarchy, that
would be an admirable scheme. In one council where there are fifteen men each with a different idea, it simply
will not work. Anyone who has been a member of the council will testify to that fact. Sometimes the council
spends five and six hours trying to come to a decision as to where it stands on a case—discussing, for
instance, “What is repeated drunkenness.” In the Moral Code, there should be certain prescribed laws with certain prescribed penalties. In
some way, a new system should be devised so that students and councilmen would know definitely what should be done
and what should not. And then—the council should sternly see that the laws were upheld.

The matter has actually come to a crisis. It merits the unreserved thought of all serious-minded men on the campus.
When the new council is elected, this should be the uppermost thought in our minds. If student self-government is to
be preserved, we must come out in the open and fight for it.

HE DIDN'T.
A boy fell into a pond, and when a man, who was passing, pulled him out he said to the
boy: “Well, son, how did you come to fall into the lake?”
“I didn’t come to fall in at all,” replied the boy with some heat, “I came to fish.”—Ex.

Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
L. B. Patterson, College Representative

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

COLLEGE BASE BALL 1917
SPALDING Base Ball Record
Over 100 pages of pictures—records—reviews—college notes—dual services—names of managers, captains, and coaches—schedules—in fact, everything that a player or a fan
wants to know, with all usual features concerning the professional side for which this remarkable book is noted, including a
picture of the DAVIDSON team. 400 pages; 25 cents
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

The Commissary

Stationery... Fountain... The Rexall Store
Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have
you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES
See us for your events.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N.C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN — Danville, Va.
J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines
