The alumni collection of books in the library has received the following additions: "Selective Service Manual," by Capt. A. L.
James, Jr., ex-'06, already mentioned in The Davidsonian; and "The South Carolina Hand-Book of the War," prepared by the South
Carolina Council of Defense, of which Dr. Redd Smith, of the English Department of the University, is chairman.

Tidings have been received of the safe arrival in Japan of Rev. Harper Brady, '12, and Mrs. Brady, who sailed
from Vancouver in August. They are located at 1766 Nankano, Tokio, for language study.

A NEW FEATURE.
Beginning with this issue, The Davidsonian will inaugurate a new feature in the alumni column, this being in the nature
of a short biographical sketch each week of some prominent alumnus of Davidson College. Among the men who will appear
in this series are the following: Hon. R. B. Glenn, ex-governor of North Carolina; Hon. James Funk Martin, Jr., third
Secretary U.S. Embassy, Professor of Spanish at Princeton University 1914-15; Hon. D. Kirby Pope, Supreme Court of Oklahoma; Hon. William
Mack, Attorney; Hon. Frank L. Fuller, General Counsel for American Tobacco Co.; Hon. Jas. W. Osborne, Assistant U.S. District Attorney,
New York City; Norwood H. McGilvary, Artist; Dr. Henry E. Shepherd, Historian; Dr. Henry Louis Smith, President Washington and Lee
University; Dr. W. J. Martin, President Davidson College; Dr. W. W. Moore, President Union Theological Seminary; Dr. Thornton Whaling, President
Columbia Theological Seminary; Dr. R. H. Adams, President Lewisburg Seminary, Lewisburg, W. Va.; Dr. C. G. Vardell, President Flora McDonald
College; Dr. J. M. Douglas, President Presbyterian College of South Carolina; Dr. D. H. Hill, former President A. & E.
College; Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, Head of Department of English, U.S. Naval Academy; Prof. J. W. Pratt, Professor of English,
U.S. Naval Academy; Prof. Edgar Dawson, Hunter College, N.Y.; Dr. Chas. A. Cornelson, Professor of English, University of South Carolina.

The Davidsonian, October 24, 1917

He has made many addresses throughout the country on political and other subjects. He was chosen a few days ago
to make a speaking tour through western North Carolina in the interest of the Liberty Loan.

THE LIBERTY BONDS.
Secretary McAdoo has authorized the statement:
1. The four percent Liberty Bonds are exempt from all state and local taxes except estate or inheritance taxes.
2. They are exempt from United States normal income taxes and from all other United States taxes except estate or
inheritance taxes and except income surtaxes, excess profits, and war profits taxes.
3. The interest on five thousand dollars principal amount of bonds and certificates owned by any individual, partnership, association, or
corporation is exempt from all United States taxes except estate or inheritance taxes. This is true though their total holdings
exceed five thousand dollars. In the case of holdings by trustees, each beneficiary is entitled to independent exemption of the
interest on five thousand dollars principal amount held in trust for him even though the trustee is identical if the
trusts be separate. In the case of families, the wife and each child, if the actual owner, are entitled to
independent exemption of the interest on five thousand dollars principal amount so owned.
4. No ownership certificate or other so-called information at the source will be required under the War Revenue Act in
connection with the payment of the interest on these bonds whatever the amount.
5. Undistributed income invested in these bonds is not subject to the additional tax imposed by that Act upon undistributed
income. The foregoing statements apply to the four percent Liberty Bonds now offered for subscription and also to those issuable
upon conversion of the three and one-half percent Liberty Bonds.

FELICIA’S TAKINGS.
First, Felicia took to knitting
Everywhere she went,
On a wristlet, sock, or sweater
Constantly intent.
Next, she took to Red Cross nursing,
MakingCountless slings, Washington; Dr. E. J. Erwin, Professor of English, University of Mississippi; Dr. W. G. Perry, Professor of English,
Georgia School of Technology; Professors W. B. Phillips and W. C. Rose, of the University of Texas; Dr. J. S.
Guy and Dr. S. G. Stukes, of Agnes Scott College; Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President, and Dr. Edward Mack, of
Union Theological Seminary.

HON. R. B. GLENN.

Robert Broadnax Glenn was born in Rockingham County, N. C., on August 11, 1854. He entered Davidson College with the
class of '75, and later studied law at the University of Virginia. Engaged first in the practice of his profession
at Danbury, he soon removed to Winston-Salem, N. C., and became one of the leading attorneys of this city and
the state as well. Mr. Glenn was elected a member of the State Legislature in 1881, and in 1886 was
elected Solicitor. He served as U. S. District Attorney from 1893 to 1897, and was elected Governor of North Carolina
in 1905, which office he held for four years. Mr. Glenn is a Democrat and a Presbyterian, and from 1890
to 1893 was Captain and Major of the North Carolina National Guard. He is at present a member of the
International Joint Boundary Commission for the United States. He is one of the best-known orators in the State.

Then Felicia took to canning,
Every afternoon
Cooking messes in the kitchen,
Brandishing a spoon.
When of beans, tomatoes, peaches,
Corn and carrots she
Wearies, I, behold! am hoping
She will take to me.
—Minna Irving.

TOO LITERAL.

The reporter was sent to write up a charity ball. His copy came in late and it was careless. The
editor reproved him the next day by quoting an extract: “Look here, Scribbler, who do you mean by this? ‘Among
the most beautiful girls was Alderman Horatio Dingley.’ Old Dingley ain’t a girl, you know. He's one of our principal
shareholders.” “I can't help that,” returned the realistic reporter, “that’s where he was.” —Ex.

THE IMMORTAL FEW.

“Father,” said Chester, “what is a diplomat?”
“A diplomat, my son,” answered the father, “is a man who remembers a woman’s birthday and forgets her age.” —Ex.

The Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. U. Thompson, Cashier.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

BOOKS.-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

L. C. BRAND, 77 Chambers

If it’s FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want see the Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200
Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

MECKLENBURG and STONEWALL AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky
Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life
for students.
Write the President
Charles R. Hemphill
Rates: $1.00 and Up
J. P. SAUNDERS, President

When You Buy Kuppenheimer Clothes
You are getting the best values possible to produce. Here can be seen the newest correct ideas in CLOTHES. Stetson
Hats, Interwoven Hose, Complete Line of College Suits Reasonably Priced. James A. Banister Shoes, Boots and Puttees. Before buying we
invite you to inspect our stock. “We Save You Money.”
V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury and Greensboro.
