The DAVIDSONIAN, April 18, 1917

SPRING

The Forum is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for
this Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found at the
Gilmer Moore Co.

Johnson & Potts
2 Rumple

“24 Hour Delivery” => Brown’s
Something good to eat

In view of the various interpretations and misinterpretations which have been given to the article “Why Does Not the Council
Act?” it is only fair to the college that the author make clear the ideas which he seemingly beclouded with
words.

In the first place, it seems entirely proper that the Forum should be the place for “free speech.” An editorial
should be unsigned. In fact, a paper can be more valuable through its editorial comments on the news reported in
its columns, if the “personal element” does not enter into the matter. The forum represents, however, the student opinion rather
than the newspaper opinion. The paper cannot be responsible for these. For that reason, McIlwaine is correct in saying that
such opinions—whether in the form of satire or what not—should be signed. “Free speech” is a valuable thing. Sociologists represent
it as having a very definite function in modern society. It has a definite function at Davidson. Often incorrect speech
is better than no speech at all. In a democracy, the most insignificant man should criticize the leader. Responsibility to
the mass and criticism of the mob prevents the social form from crystallizing. It was this belief that gave rise
to the article referred to.

In the second place, the article was not intended to be the final word or to be based on superhuman
information. It was purposely one-sided, aiming more to produce comment than to settle the matter. It was based on student
opinion, not on facts. Every “fact” named, however, was a matter of student gossip and belief. The writer did not
believe all of these were true. And he set forth the false “facts” in the hope that the ensuing discussion
would bring forth the true facts.

In the third place, the article was not a statement that there is a vast amount of drinking in Davidson.
There is some drinking here. The paper was established to discuss facts and not to hide them from its subscribers.
According to the definition by the “State Law,” there is a survival of hazing here. There is some cheating here.
There is some gambling here. But no one believes more sincerely than the writer that these things are gradually passing
out of our life—insofar as they will ever pass out of human life—or that these “evils” are less eminent here
than at almost any other college in the country. This is a question of fact; not of what ought or
ought not to be true.

Nor was the article a statement advocating any definite ethical standard. To judge from it whether the writer approved of
drinking or not was clearly to misinterpret the meaning. It did not intend to introduce the question of whether a
college man should be permitted to drink. It claimed the drinking was against the standard set by the faculty and
against the laws of the constitution. It suggested that no undergraduate body is able to decide just what the ethical
standard of a college should be; that therefore the legislative portion of college government should be left to the faculty
and the judicial to the student body. Because of his immaturity, the writer was, and still is, unprepared to make
any statement regarding morality.

In the fifth place, the article was not discussing merely the question of drinking. There is a rhetorical difference between
the “occasion” of an article and the “purpose” of an article. So far, the discussion has tended to center around
the occasion—which happened to be a drinking case. Saunders is eminently one who has never studied the subject.

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices.
Leave orders with cashier of Bank
L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Quickest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
A. S. Potts, Agent
2 Rumple

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnsonlow, forced. A judicial committee has no right to hesitate to enforce the law. It has no right to
even think of the personality of the defendant. A law is absolute and a judicial committee is a mere automaton
in its grasp. If a law is incorrect it should be revised or taken off the book; but so long
as it exists, a law must be enforced. Another purpose of the article was to claim that under our present
constitution this is very difficult. Our council must first interpret the law and then enforce it. In a sense, only
a judicial body must do this. But in most cases the law is so definite that the opportunity for variation
in interpretation is reduced to a minimum. When there is occasion for considerable variety in interpretation, the judicial body becomes
combined with the legislative body. They must first legislate in interpreting the law and later judge the question of guilt.
Take the question of hazing, for example, remembering that it is not the only question capable of discussion! Suppose a
man is introduced into the council as guilty. He has paddled a Freshman. According to our law, if he is
guilty he must be expelled. A councilman raises the question whether paddling in a spirit of friendship is “hazing;” and
whether it is a bad practice. Every year that problem comes up and the council must legislate before it can
judge. One reason why the council does so little is that it can never come to an agreement regarding its
legislative policy.

And my throbbing pulse beats faster, Quickened now at her command, I'd gladly give my drop of blood To save
the honor of my land. And yet, the strife will not be long: The troops will soon disband. A reign
of love is just begun: The Prince of Peace will then command. So let us up and to the front—
Our country needs us too; With hearts of love, with hate to none. Be soldiers, brave and kind and true.

By Grace. L. B. LONG

Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats Fruits and Candies FANCY GROCERIES BOOKS, STATIONARY, NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The Hoover & Smith Co. correct in saying that hazing is more of a problem here than drinking. Hark! I
hear my country calling— Calling me, and I must go. Hear the chime of duty swelling, Official Fraternity Jewelers 46
Chestnut St. Philadelphia

One purpose of the article in question was to claim that hazing is more of a problem here than drinking.
By the time it does come to an agreement, May has also come, and—a new council with the same old
problem before it. The writer believed that one trouble with student self-government in most colleges has been this attempt to
blend legislative and judicial power, and that Davidson could lead in a new movement by revising her old constitution. He
believed that our moral code needs to be made practical. Possibly there are some ideals in it which should be
omitted. After all, men are human, laws then, are made to control men, not inspire them. Philosophers are made for
that.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods,
reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address: Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY. During the past week eight new books have been added to the Library. They are: “Symmetrical
Masonry Arches,” by Howe; “Kidder's Architects’ Builders’ Pocket Book,” Thomas Nolan, editor-in-Chief; Manning: “Non-Euclidian Geometry,” by Thomas F. Meikeljohn; Henry
S. Jacoby: “The Essentials of Lettering,” “Plain Lettering,” “Foundations of Geometry,” by Gilbert; “P. Sundara Row’s Geometric Exercises in Paper
Folding;” “Spinning Tops and Gyroscopic Motion,” by H. Crabtree. This last mentioned book is very interesting to college men, explaining
among other things the principle of the monorail car.

At a meeting of the Freshman class last week, A. D. McArn was elected class baseball manager.

The Brady Printing Company is prepared to do all kinds of printing for college men. Prompt delivery a specialty. Gilbert
& Patterson Agents SELWYN HOTEL CHARLOTTE, N.C. Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50 Rooms With Private Bath
$2.00 and Up Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50 LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts. B. W.
FARR, Mgr. CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
