The DAVIDSONIAN October 31, 1917

RED AND BLACK TRIUMPHS
(Continued from page 1)

Forward pass incomplete. Ball goes over. Flowers smashed 7 yards over left tackle. Crouch followed suit with 5 yards over right tackle. Ball fumbled. V. M. I. recovered. V. M. I. penalized 15 yards. Ball midfield. Leech over tackle gets 1 yard and Engleby made 2 thru center. Leech punted to Flowers, 30 yards. Flowers returned 5; Burns went over right guard for 2 yards and around left end for 2 more. Grey punted 45 yards to Witt, who was downed in his tracks. Engleby went 4 yards thru center. Witt made 2 thru center. V. M. I. fumbled, Richardson recovering. Flowers ran around left end for first down. D. C.’s ball on V. M. I.’s 35-yard line. Quarter over. Score: D.C., 7; V. M. I., 0.

FOURTH QUARTER.
Crouch for Burns. Forward pass incomplete. Time out for V. M. I. Forward pass incomplete. Forward pass from Spann to King clears 15 yards. Forward pass intercepted but recovered in air by McAlister, who was downed on 1-yard line. Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. Forward pass, Spann to King, nets touchdown. Flowers kicked goal. Score: D. C., 14; V. M. I., 0. Grey kicked off 60 yards to Engleby, who returned 35 yards. Leech gained 5 yards around left end. Engleby went around right end for 3 yards. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Leech broke out of a scrimmage and ran 52 yards for a touchdown. Leech kicked goal. Score: D.C., 14; V. M. I., 7. Summers kicked to Richardson on D. C.’s 25-yard line. Flowers made first down around left end. A pass from Spann to King cleared 13 yards. McAlister received pretty pass from Spann and ran 45 yards for a touchdown. Flowers kicked goal. Score: D. C., 21; V. M. I., 7. Grey kicked off to Leech on goal line. Leech returned 20 yards. Engleby made 3 yards thru center, but failed the second trial. Leech failed over right guard. Leech punted 30 yards to Spann, who ran back 2 yards. D. C.'s ball midfield. Flowers gained 18 yards in a pretty run around right end. A smash over left tackle netted McAlister 3 yards. Forward pass incomplete. Flowers punted over V. M. I.'s goal line. V. M. I.'s ball on own 20-yard line. Witt gains a yard over right tackle. Ball fumbled. V. M. I. recovered on 1-yard line. Leech missed pass. Recovered but downed by Harris behind goal line. Safety for D.C. Score: D.C., 23; V. M. I., 7. V. M. I.'s ball on own 20-yard line. Leech failed at center. Forward pass incomplete. Time up—whistle—game over. Final score: D. C., 23; V. M. I., 7.

The line up:
V. M. I. POSITION DAVIDSON
Woodward .......... King Left End
Hawkins ............ Shaw Left Tackle
C. Hawkins ......... Grey Left Guard
Knapp .............. W. Crouch Center
Addison ............ McMaster Right Guard
Thomas ............ Elliott Right Tackle
Marshall ........... Richardson Right End
Leech .............. Spann Quarterback
Smith .............. G. Crouch Left Halfback
Engleby ............ Flowers Right Halfback
Dixon .............. J. McAlister Fullback

Substitutions—V. M. I.: Summers for Hawkins (S.), Anderson for Smith, Witt for Leech, Leech for Smith, Ranson for Anderson, Gibson for Marshall, Goodman for Summers, Roberdean for Woodward, Manton for Hawkins (C.). Davidson: Burns for Crouch, Crouch for Burns, Harris for Richardson.

The officials: Bender, umpire; Sampson (Auburn), referee; Major, head-linesman. Time of quarters: 13-12-13-12.

Y. M. C. A. CAMPAIGN CLOSED
(Continued from page 1)

in personal life add twoMore reasons to the list. Mr. Wright was assisted in his meetings by Mr. Young, his singer. The songs of Mr. Young, and the duets of the two were an attractive part of the services. The meetings bore good fruit, six having become members of the church, while numerous others took the stand for a more consistent Christian life.

INSTRUCTIVE LECTURE SUNDAY AFTERNOON

Dr. Winfred S. Hall, who for the past three years has been visiting colleges in the United States and Canada, delivered a lecture to many Davidson students and visiting friends on Sunday afternoon at 3:30. His lecture dealt with the essentials of true manhood based upon his wide experience and knowledge, having visited colleges in every State in the Union and many provinces in Canada, and also the most important armies in Europe. Dr. Hall came to Davidson from Camp Greene, where he had given the same lecture to the men there. He said he had spoken to as many as 35,000 soldiers at one time recently. In showing the essentials of true manhood, he also made a strong appeal to the men for clean living.

DR. GAINES DELIVERS INSPIRING SERMON

Dr. Gaines, president of Agnes Scott College, of Decatur, Ga., delivered the sermon on Sunday morning at the Presbyterian Church. For his text he took a part of Job 14:14: “If a man die shall he live again?” He then spoke on the immortality of the soul. After giving the scriptural proofs for the soul’s immortality, he showed the blessedness of the reunion of friends and loved ones in Heaven. His discourse was inspiring, instructive, and powerful.

IN MEMORIAM

Funeral services over the remains of Mrs. Cathryn Campbell, who died early Monday morning, October 22, were held from the residence on North Main Street the following day at noon, the Rev. C. M. Richards officiating. The interment was in the Davidson cemetery. Many beautiful floral tributes were received by the family expressing the love and esteem for Mrs. Campbell of her numerous friends. Her death was an especial loss to her Davidson “boys” whom she had served so faithfully for so many years.

DR. McCONNELL TO SPEAK ON MARTIN LUTHER

In celebrating the four hundredth anniversary of the birth of the Reformation, a special program will be carried out at the church next Sunday. Dr. J. M. McConnell will speak on Martin Luther, the man who conceived the idea of the great reform movement. The hymns of the Reformation will be sung in honor of the man who had the courage to defy the pope and his host of followers.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

RING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.