The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The reporters for this issue are:
R. L. Murray, William Love, L. M. Thomas, T. E. Grey, W. H. Harrell, E. G. Lilly, H. T. Lilly, A. R. Craig, S. T. McCloy, E. R. Boney, J. F. McClerkin, J. W. Clark, W. M. Currie, O. C. Williamson, E. N. Booker.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
Assistant Managers
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

The wages of loafing is re-exams. A few Juniors are beginning to wear a slightly puzzled look already.

Headline in The Davidsonian a year ago: Ground to be Broken for the Gymnasium Soon. We wonder why those stationary hurdles have been erected around the edges of the grass.

Would it be a good idea to put Junior Speaking up a week so it would not conflict with the Inauguration?

The foundations of the new tank are concrete examples of Davidson efficiency.

I. H. Patterson is convalescing and is almost himself again. Yesterday he wrote, it is reported, an 118-page letter to his girl.

We still contend that the twelve short, crowded tennis courts could be made first-class courts by moving the backstops a few feet.

What if:
The War hadn't begun.
And we were not broke.
And the Gymnasium were built.
And Liston were to stop talking.
And Pope were to get in a hurry.
And Lavender Thomas were to lose some flesh.
And the Commissary were to make only 50 percent profits.
And lights were put in the dormitory halls.
And the Literary Societies were to have an interesting meeting.
And the Sophs were to win the Class football championship.

The editors feel that the fact that the present issue is, and the following few issues will be, only four pages in length, needs not an apology but an explanation. The explanation is simply this: there is a slack of news and happenings, and dearth of interesting material. Readers, we believe, prefer short, concise articles to the same ones stretched and padded to cover territory. No apology is due, for readers are paying the same subscription price as was paid last year for only four-page issues.

Is class football a good thing? The question has been raised. Certainly it has its defects. It takes time and a lot of it, not only that of the coaches, who spend hours trying to beat a little football knowledge into a bunch of seeming numskulls, but, too, the time of the same numskulls, who spend the same hours running, perspiring, and falling on a muddy field. More than that, more men are usually hurt in class football than in Varsity even. And, as a result of damp weather and wet fields, the sick list reaches its climax. But the benefits. First, it affords pleasure and diversion to the whole student body, without which in this gloomy weather and in these halls, gloomy compared with home, would undoubtedly die of blues. Then it causes class spirit as nothing else does, and class spirit is a good thing, for from it the pep of the campus is born. And then from class football men come next year’s scrubs. It is a kindergarten of football knowledge. So long live class football, and may the best class win.

Editor Davidsonian:

During President Wilson’s visit to the College last Spring it was quite noticeable to the writer, and also a matter of comment to others, that the National ensign was not flown, and forthe very good reason that the College had neither a flag nor a flag pole at which to display the colors. During the visit of Secretary Josephus Daniels three years ago, I heard the same comment made by some visitors from an adjoining State. The students of Davidson College are largely descendants of men who made the Star-Spangled Banner the flag of the greatest nation of the world, and it is certainly our duty to keep the patriotism of our student body at a high pitch. Sometimes I think that we of Davidson are a bit provincial in our attitude towards certain things, and we have reacted so much towards symbolism that we have taken most of the sentiment out of our love of country by not paying enough attention to the symbols of patriotism. There is no question of the fact that a flag is a real symbol, and men die in defense of their symbols every day, and this attitude is made much of in military and naval life. It would seem almost an impossible state of affairs to a man in service to see a large group of buildings housing four hundred young men without a flag staff or flag. I have been hoping that some class would give us a good flag pole for the campus and that the colors might be flown at least on national holidays and when we have any noted officials present. If any organization will give a suitable staff for the campus, I have in hand about $35.00 with which to buy the flag, and will be glad to put it to that use. This money was given to me by a patriotic citizen—not an alumnus of Davidson or citizen of this State, but one who wants to see our young men have the national ensign floating over their college.

John MacConnell

TOMORROW'S Y. M. C. A.

The Y. M. C. A. meeting tomorrow night at 6:45 will be addressed by Rev. I. B. Abernethy, the new minister of the local Methodist church. His subject will be Character Building. The Student Body is invited to make his acquaintance.

Presbyterian Standard Pub

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

216 N. Tryon St. Phone 643

See W. H. NEAL Our Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY

Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N. C.

L. H. Patterson, - - Representative 33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

TALBOT & ARROW formfit COLLARS are curve cut, to fit the neck perfectly

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

Peabody & Co. Inc. Makers

Holeproof Hosiery “Red Ball” Overshoes :: General Merchandise

SOUTHERN RAILWAY Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats Fruits and Candies :: FANCY GROCERIES

Quality Counts

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA.

That’s why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.

Alex. Taylor & Co.

THE COMMISSARY

The Southern Serves the South

R. S. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt. 22 South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

For information, address: W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers 616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia