THE DAVIDSONIAN Vol. V.

Jones and Miller Win in Doubles Match
Interest Being Manifested in Final Outcome.

During the past week, the tennis tournament has been progressing rapidly. The doubles were won by W. M. Jones and J. H. Miller after overcoming some keen competition. The singles are nearing the finals. The following report includes Saturday afternoon's play.

The semi-finals in the doubles were played by Kornegay and Gaither vs. W. M. Jones and J. H. Miller, and Cunningham and Hawkins vs. Spence and W. F. Hall. The finals were played by the winners, Jones and Miller, and Cunningham and Hawkins. Jones and Miller won 6-4, 1-6, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3, in a match in which hard, steady play was uppermost. Few grandstand or sensational plays were in evidence; in fact, this has been a characteristic of almost every match that has so far been played.

The singles are narrowing down somewhat. E. A. Woods has already reached the semi-finals. Spence vs. Kennedy and Hawkins vs. W. F. Hall are to play for the same honor. The other men still in the running are E. G. Lilly vs. Bennett, and Cunningham vs. Ormand, who have yet to play their third round.

HOME DEFENSE GUARD UNIFORM IS ADOPTED

The uniform for the student cadet corps has been decided upon and will be the regular uniform of the Home Defense Guard. It has been decided that no particular shoe will be required, though general requirements as to color and shape will possibly be enforced. Dr. Martin was in Charlotte making the final arrangements on Monday. Two men will come down in a day or so to take measurements, and the uniforms will probably be ready about ten days after the measurements are made.

J. E. JOHNSON HAS LANDED IN ENGLAND

Mrs. Lola Johnson received a cablegram last week from her son, Mr. Edward Johnson, who has landed somewhere in England. Mr. Johnson attended the Officers’ Reserve Training Camp at Oglethorpe last summer and received his commission and volunteered in the regular Army. He is now on his way to France to go into training near the firing line. J. E. Johnson was principal of the Davidson Public School last year and is an alumnus of Davidson.

N. S. RICHARDS HAS LEFT THE INFIRMARY

We are glad to note that N. S. Richards, '20, who had his leg broken in a football scrimmage about two weeks ago, is doing nicely at present. He has been removed from the infirmary to the home of his uncle, Dr. C. M. Richards, and seems to be in excellent spirits. Richards will be taken to Charlotte one day this week for the purpose of having his leg put in a cast. He hopes to be able to get about on crutches in a short time.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 10, 1917.

Probable Line-Up of Georgia’s Tech.
The Davidson Team Leaves for Atlanta Friday Night.

On Saturday, October 13, the Davidson team goes to Atlanta to grapple with the strong Georgia Tech eleven. This game with Tech will be, as usual, the hardest of the season on Davidson's schedule. The Davidson team is going down Friday night in high spirits, with the intention of giving the “Yellow Jackets” the fight of their lives. The Davidson team, under Coach Fetzer’s careful guidance, is developing a strong unity that will offset what it lacks in weight. Davidson has a good team this year, regardless of the result of the game last Saturday. The score does not represent the part played by the Davidson team in that game.

The “Yellow Jackets” have a powerful eleven this fall, as is shown in their 41-0 victory Saturday over the University of Pennsylvania. A large number of last year’s team are back. Their backfield is equal to any in the East. The great All-Southern star half-back Strupper is with Tech again, and will be in Saturday’s game. Tech's probable line-up in Saturday's game will be as follows: Carpenter and Hall, ends; Fincher and Tweat, tackles; Whelchel and Dowling, guards; Strupper and Guyon, half-backs; Phillips, center; Guyon, quarter; and Harlan, full-back.

FRESHMEN ARE DEFEATED IN FRESH-SOPH GAME

In a ragged, loosely played baseball game Friday afternoon, a team composed of Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores defeated a team of Freshmen by the score of 8 to 1. Considering the rough diamond, lack of practice and teamwork, and lack of equipment, both teams showed up remarkably well. The outstanding features of the game were the pitching of Hodgin and fielding of Richards for the Sophs, while the base-running of Murrey of the Freshmen was very good. Although it was impossible to get a good line on the new men's abilities, some of them looked like Varsity prospects.

Score by innings: R. H.
Fresh .......... 010 000 0—1 5 2
Soph ........... 220 003 1—8 3 3

Batteries: Currie, Heath, Murrey and Brown; Johnston; Hodgin and Potts.
Summary: Base on balls: Hodgin 3, Currie 3, Heath 2, Murrey 1. Stolen bases: Brown 2, Murrey 2, Potts. Struck out: by Hodgin 8, by Currie 5, by Murrey 2. Hit by pitcher: Potts, Belcher.

CLASS ELECTIONS.

During the past week the following offices have been filled: Basketball managers: Senior, F. Hengeveld; Junior, R. D. Hall; Sophomore, W. M. Hall. H. K. Aiken, Jr., has been elected vice-president, and Master John Monroe Douglas has been chosen mascot of the Class of '18. Wm. Love, of the Sophomore class, has been elected to the audit board.

Exercises on Thursday morning, speaking of his work in Korea. No. 5 War Y. M.C. A. Work = (N. C. State Wins Described at Meeting By Close Score Mr. Armbrust, of Camp Greene of Davidson Had Ball on 1-Yard Line Charlotte, Speaks. When Half Ended.

The untimely ending of the first half deprived Davidson's eleven of a victory over A. and E. last Friday, the Techs winning 7 to 3. The Red and Black machine had the ball on Tech’s half-yard line when the fated whistle blew, ending the first half. The game was hard fought and evenly played, although Davidson made eight first downs to her opponents’ five, and also gained more ground than her rivals. The Davidson eleven looked more finished and executed their plays smoother than the Tech aggregation, but was outclassed in the overhead attack. Tech's touchdown was made on a forward pass from a fake formation, which netted 15 yards. Davidson's three points were made on a drop-kick by Flowers from the field. Flowers, Burns, and Grey starred for Davidson; Homewood, Gurley, McMurray, and Whitaker for A. and E. Burns and Flowers went through the A. and E. line almost whenever they wished and were only stopped by the secondary defense. It was Gurley’s headwork at quarter and the consistent gains of McMurray that put the Tech team in position to score in the fourth quarter. The weather was a little too warm for football and play was rather slow at times, considerable time being taken out for resting the players. The attendance represented about 700 enthusiastic spectators, including a number of khaki-clad students from Chapel Hill.

FIRST QUARTER

Davidson kicked to A. and E., who returned the ball to the thirty-yard line. Brown went through guard for two yards, McMurray through tackle for five. Gurley failed at center and McMurray was stopped on an end run. Flowers, for Davidson, took the pigskin through tackle for eight yards. Burns gained three yards. Spann was halted in his tracks. Two forward passes were intercepted. Grey then kicked, the ball being blocked by one of his teammates and recovered. Burns in three successive attempts carried the half three yards. Grey kicked the ball out of bounds on Tech's twenty-five-yard line. Homewood went through right tackle for one yard. Brown gained three yards on a pass. Gurley got three yards through center, and Brown was thrown for a five-yard loss. Homewood gained three yards through center. McMurray failed at tackle and Gurley punted to Davidson's forty-yard line, Burns returning the ball to A. and E.'s forty-yard line. He then gained five yards through center and the quarter ended.

SECOND QUARTER

Grey kicked behind Tech's goal line and the ball was brought out to the twenty-yard line. Brown got three yards through right guard. Gurley failed to gain. Brown got six yards through right tackle. Murray kicked and Davidson returned to their forty-yard line. McAlister gained eight yards around right end. Burns got three yards at center and McAlister gained five yards through left tackle. Flowers got twenty yards around (Continued on page 6)

REV. L. McCUTCHEON SPEAKS ON KOREA

Rev. Luther McCutcheon, missionary to Korea, now at home on furlough, gave a talk on Korea Wednesday night at the church. He described the topography of the country and the nature of the Korean people. These he represented as being a liberal people, a missionary people, and a devout people. In speaking of his own work in Korea, he said that in the fifteen years he had been there he had baptized two thousand adults and four hundred infants. Mr. McCutcheon conducted chapel.

All those who attended the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday had the fortune of hearing one of the most interesting talks that has been made at the weekly meetings for some time. Mr. Armbrust, who is now Y. M. C. A. secretary at Camp Greene, Charlotte, was the speaker. He is a man whose position has thrown him in close contact with men, and consequently a man who knows how to deal with men and with men’s problems. In his talk at the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night on “The War and the Y.M.C. A.,” he gave a summary of the trials and hardships of a soldier, and stated the need of some place or organization that would occupy the soldier's attention in his spare time in some pleasant and useful recreation. He showed how the Y. M. C. A. was doing this work with remarkable success, by giving many instances that have come under his personal observation. He also showed how each department—social, educational, physical, and religious, with its individual amusements and benefits, was doing a great work. The Y. M. C. A. was fortunate in securing Mr. Armbrust, and all who heard him are now interested in the work with which he is connected.

PRESIDENT MARTIN HONORED BY GOVERNOR

Governor Bickett has appointed President William J. Martin chairman of the North Carolina Committee of Research. This committee is an important unit in the National Council of Defense. Mr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, and Dr. M. A. Withers, of the North Carolina A. & E. College, have been named as members of this committee also. The duties of this committee are to report on the possibilities of the State in the way of providing material from its natural resources for government use in connection with the war, and to conduct any technical research along this line that may be called for. It may be safely said that North Carolina will “do her bit" in furnishing the government with raw material from her abundant natural resources.