2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. K. G. Lilly........ Managing Editor
F. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames........ Alumni Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas
R. E. McClure
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey....... Assistant Managers

Reporters' Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

“There is no place, however remote, where one does not find the enterprising German.” —Bryce.

We take this privilege of welcoming the editor of Quips and Cranks. Lilly is going to give us a good annual.

The sympathy of the student body goes out to N. S. Richards, '20, in his accident. We hope to soon have him out again.

Whether you do or do not like the present tendency of the college curricula universally, read in the September Scribner's “College Studies and College Tests” by President Hadley, of Yale.

“The great heart of mankind ever beats in sense and sympathy with the weaker.” Isn't this a fine saying of John Galsworthy's—the man whom the critics are having little mercy on now? Strengthen your ideal of the man or nation who is true to his ideal by reading his play—Mob. You will appreciate his dramas if you have not been introduced to them already. They are in the library—Get the habit.

A few nights ago a friend called around and we had a heart-to-heart confab about affairs of college life. This fellow, who is a close observer of college and dormitory spirit, draws the conclusion that the Rumpleites are one set and that the student body lives in the other dormitories. He seemed to think that the students in Rumple were segregating themselves and that their habitat was restricted to their dormitory only. If this is right, we hope that those fellows will become a part of the student body. This can be done in the estimation of the accuser by a more general mingling with the residents of the other domiciles. You can do this and it is hoped that a sufficient number of institutions will make a sacrifice in some way so that this fund may be initiated. This Fund will go to Army Secretarial work. This plan is being considered, and after a consultation with Dr. Martin, Mr. Thomas will probably bring it before the student body.

The magazine was, when the class of 1918 entered, a seven-issue publication. Then its subscription was practically restricted to the members of the Literary Societies—being edited and financed by them. Later it was made a student body publication and only four issues in a collegiate year. Think about this before you vote either way (should it be brought up) in a student body meeting. It will mean probably no magazine at all if it is not gotten out as usual. Let us not have a compromise even of two issues. Why? Because the career of the magazine has been a checkered one—having had numbers of ups and downs in its history. Now it is on a solid basis and it should continue. Because the college world is in an unnatural, abnormal state already. Because there are those of literary talent and aspiration who would not get the training that is due them. A man will often write for publication when he will not write for the waste basket or the letter file. Because you will not get to know the men in college as you would—by this, you would not appreciate their work—for you.would not know that they did any. Because the magazine staff will become unorganized. The men composing the present staff are men of experience and can give us a top-notch magazine. Probably they have gotten ideas and experience from the preceding staff. These plans, together with their own, they would bequeath to the succeeding staff—thus, as it were, the genius remaining in the family. If a magazine is not gotten out this year there are all odds against there not being one next year and on and on. When you do want to get out a magazine you will have a green, raw, staff who probably would issue something of which you would be ashamed. President Wilson has said for school, college and university athletics to be continued. Isn't the inference that he desires that all aspects of college activities should run in their normal channels? Men get training in literary pursuits as well as they do in athletics—and training is the function of athletics. Let us contend for our magazine. STOP! THINK! then SPEAK!

METHODIST MEETING CLOSED THURSDAY NIGHT

The meeting which has been conducted in the local Methodist church last week was unexpectedly brought to a close on Thursday night. It became necessary for Rev. W. L. Hutchins, of Newton, N. C., who was assisting Rev. Mr. Jenkins, of the local church, in this meeting, to return to his parish. Rev. Mr. Jenkins, the pastor, expects to recommence the meeting again sometime during October.

HISTORICAL COMMISSION PRESERVING RECORDS

The North Carolina Historical Commission has asked for a copy of the photograph of the Davidson men at the first Officers’ Training Camp, at Fort Oglethorpe. This picture will be preserved and put on display in the Hall of History as a part of the war record. It seems that this board is at work getting details, data, and records of our part in the World War. Nothing will be of so much value to historians and future generations as this conserving of history as it is made.

Yet keep up the reputation that Rumple is still the place where “ye studious boys” live. It has been suggested by the Y. M. C. A. to L. M. Thomas, editor-in-chief of The Davidson College Magazine, that a part or the entire amount of the funds for the publication of the magazine be donated to a Y. M. C. A. War Fund. The idea in this embraces other colleges and universities in its scope.

Mean more than money to you. If you’re a Beau Brummel Tailored man you’re going to get the glad hand every day—everywhere. There’s No Use Talking CLOTHES certainly do help make the man. Get “off” the ready-mades. Have your clothes tailored expressly for you—get exactly what you want without question or quibble.

The Storrs-Schaefer Company
S. M. GILBERT, Representative

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses in WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

Patronize our Advertisers FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If he hasn't it, Try the Other Fellow. Tell him that he has something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.