COLLEGE DIRECTORY

Student Body: A. P. Saunders, president; J. W. McAlister and G. H. Rowland, vice-presidents; J. F. McClerkin, secretary-treasurer.

Y. M. C. A.: J. L. Fowle, president; W. C. Cumming, vice-president; C. W. Worth, secretary; J. T. Maddrey, treasurer. Cabinet: R. W. Cousar, H. T. Lilly, L. M. Thomas, J. B. Daffin, G. C. Bellingrath, J. W. Clark, J. R. Woods, W. C. Cumming, A. P. Saunders.

Literary Societies:
Eumenean—R. W. Cousar, president; E. Flinn, vice-president; Wm. Love, secretary; J. B. Woods, treasurer; G. C. Bellingrath, reviewer.
Philanthropic—J. A. Thames, president; W. M. Currie, vice-president; J. L. Fowle, critic; J. T. Maddrey, treasurer.

Class Organizations:
Class of '18—J. B. Daffin, president;
Class of '19—C. W. Worth, president; J. H. Miller, vice-president; J. R. Boswell, secretary-treasurer;
Class of '20—A. D. McArn, president.

Football: J. W. Clark, manager; R. C. Carter, J. H. Miller, and C. W. Worth, assistant managers.
Basketball: C. W. Angle, manager.
Baseball: J. B. Daffin, manager.

Publications:
Davidsonian—R. H. Stone, editor-in-chief; O. J. Thies Jr., business manager; O. C. Williamson, circulation manager.
Davidson College Magazine Staff: L. H. Thomas, editor-in-chief.
Quips and Cranks—H. T. Lilly, editor-in-chief; R. P. Richardson, business manager.

Student Council: A. P. Saunders, J. B. Daffin, J. L. Fowle, J. R. Woods, L. M. Thomas, J. W. Clark, C. W. Worth, J. W. McAlister, S. M. Gilbert, R. B. Peters, R. T. Allison, A. D. McArn, W. F. Hall.

WHAT OTHERS THINK OF DAVIDSON’S TEAM

The following is a clipping from the Atlanta Constitution: "Those Davidson wildcats will be the next on the schedule, coming here October 13. Every season they throw a scare into the Jackets by the splendid article of ball they put up, but this season the Jackets will be ready for them and Davidson is in for the surprise of her young life." We expect to do a little of that scaring again this year.

L. H. PATTERSON DRAFTED INTO ARMY SERVICE

“Pat” is gone! Leslie H. Patterson, ex-'18, left Thursday night for Camp Lee, at Petersburg, Va., where he will report for training. "Pep" was among those drafted last summer and was here, pending notification of the Army Department. This notification came last week, and "Pep" left for the post of duty. Our best wishes go with him, and we shall surely miss "Pep," especially on those occasions when his services were so much in demand. The business of the Commissary will be continued as heretofore, J. T. Maddrey having taken Patterson's place.

COTTON MILL BUILDS NEW ADDITION TO PLANT

The new addition to the Delberg Cotton Mill is fast nearing completion. It comprises a building sixty-five by seventy-six feet, two stories high. A part of the machinery is now en route and will be installed as soon as it arrives. It is hoped to have everything in readiness for operation by January 1. The new addition is in the spinning department and will about double the capacity of the mill, necessitating the employment of more than one hundred new operators.

DETAILS OF “PETE” SAUNDERS’ ACCIDENT

One Sunday while at Camp Sapphire, Brevard, N. C., A. P. Saunders sustained injuries which have prohibited his return to college. "Pete" went out for a hike to Glen Cannon Falls, which is about seven miles from camp. Several of the boys went along with him, as it was a very interesting place. On arriving at the falls, all went in the water to cool off, the deepest water being about six inches. After staying in for some time, the boys decided to take some pictures. Pete and his companions went to a spot about ten feet from the head of the falls to dry in the sun. As they were sitting there, he started to change his position and raised himself on the palms of his hands to do so; his idea was to slip in a little hollow in the rocks. However, his weight was so great that he could not check his speed, and he went over the forty-foot falls. At this place, there is nothing but solid rock and just as slick as can be, and this is the reason he suffered such painful injuries. He was unconscious for about twenty minutes. Help was sent for at once, but it was about two hours before we could get anyone. In the meanwhile, he was made as comfortable as possible in blankets, etc., borrowed from the neighborhood. He was then carried back to camp and on to Asheville the next morning. Just the other day, an X-ray was made of his leg and arm and it was found that both had to be reset. He was immediately taken to St. Luke's Hospital, Richmond, Va. He took the whole fall on his left side and broke both his left leg just below the knee and his left arm in the elbow. Pete will be glad to hear from any of his friends who care to write to him, although he may not be able to answer them.

MINISTERIAL BAND HOLDS FIRST FEED

The Ministerial Band held its first “feed” on last Saturday in the old Commencement Hall. The purpose of this feed was to get acquainted with the new men and for the new men to learn the old men. The first thing on the program was the refreshments. Everybody enjoyed themselves very much, for there was an abundance of food.“eats.” When the refreshments were finished, the band was entertained by speeches from several Freshmen who gave the band very useful information about their home towns. The feed was then closed with several yells and songs. Everyone departed looking forward to the next feed.

REV. G. H. ATKINSON SPOKE SUNDAY MORNING

The congregation of the Presbyterian Church and the student body of Davidson College were extremely fortunate in hearing Rev. G. H. Atkinson, president of the Salisbury Normal and Industrial Institute for Girls, preach a powerful sermon last Sunday morning on the text, “Win Christ,” Phil. 3:8. Mr. Atkinson, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Keneble, was on his way to hold services on Sunday evening with the soldiers at Camp Greene, near Charlotte, and stopped here to deliver the message of the morning. Mrs. Keneble sang two solos, which were enjoyed by all.

“OVER THE TOP.”

Among the new war books in the library is “Over the Top,” by Arthur Guy Empey. He was over there, and September 26, 1917.

Fine Example of a Loyal Alumnus

For the second year in succession, The Davidsonian is the recipient of a gift of one hundred dollars to be used to the best advantage of the paper. This is from an alumnus who will not allow his name to be mentioned. He is a loyal friend of the paper and of the college. He realizes that The Davidsonian causes the college to grow. The more money we have, the better paper we can give. The college authorities realize that The Davidsonian is a great factor for the increasing of the student body. You love the college and want to see it grow. There are other loyal and true friends of the college. Are there not others among the 2,000 alumni who will follow the example of this admirable Davidsonian?

DAVIDSON PUBLIC SCHOOL TO OPEN NEXT TUESDAY

Although future development may make it necessary to further postpone the opening of the graded school, the present plans are to open on next Tuesday, October 2. Plans have been carefully laid and Professor Walker, a graduate of William and Mary’s, has been in town for several weeks, expecting at any time to take up his work as principal. His associate teachers for the year will be Mrs. Johnson and Misses Maud Vinson, Essie Felton, Julia Johnston, Mamie Withers, and Gordon Baskerville. Although a prediction in regard to the number of pupils would be hard to make, it is desired to have a full attendance, and this is confidently expected. The postponement of the opening has been due to scarlet fever in the community.

CAMPUSISMS.

Mr. Wm. Wright, of Winston, N. C., was on the Hill this week, representing his concern, the Walkover Boot Shop.

O. J. Thies, Jr., spent the weekend in Charlotte.

H. K. Aiken and M. S. Kennedy are on the Hill again taking up duties with the Senior class.

A new man, Calhoun, from Mississippi, enrolled in the Freshman class Monday.

O. C. Williamson spent the weekend at his home, near Charlotte.

Green Penn ’21, has been confined in the infirmary this week.

Walter Hall spent the weekend off the Hill.

I am sorry for men who do not read the Bible every day. I wonder why they deprive themselves of the strength and the pleasure. It is one of the most singular books in the world, for every time you open it some old text that you have read a score of times suddenly beams with a new meaning. Evidently, the mood and the thought of that day, bred by the circumstances that you cannot analyze, has suddenly thrown its light upon the page and upon that passage, and there springs out upon the page to you something that you never saw lie upon it before. There is no other book that I know of which this is true; there is no other book that yields its meaning so personally, that seems to fit itself so intimately to the very spirit that is seeking guidance.—Woodrow Wilson.

Plans for a successful year

Brady Printing Co. Statesville, North Carolina

The College PRINTERS

If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & PATTERSON AT THE COMMISSARY

Are Our Representatives at the College

CHERO-COLA

Drink Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina

You are cordially invited to inspect our premises

Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N. C.

L. H. Patterson, Representative

ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON

INVITE YOU TO CALL ON THEM FOR Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis Oxfords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.50; Silk Hose, 50c., and many other things that you may need in the clothing line. See if we haven't what you want. See our new line of Stock Suits $18 to $22.50

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies

LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

A BIG IMPROVEMENT

Doing more Work and Better Work

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

Tobe Johnson 17 Years at the Same Place

NEW BOOKS.

Among the books recently added to the Library are the following, all of them fiction: “Watermeads,” by Marshall; “Wildfire,” Zane Grey; “Light in the Clearing,” Bacheller; “Triflers;” “Aurora the Magnificent,” Hall; “Dominie Dean,” Butler; “Matchmakers,” Buckrose; “Our Mr. Wrenn,” Lewis; “Hundredth Chance,” Dell; “The Job,” Lewis.