4 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 31, 1917

ALUMNI NOTES

H. M. Marion, '14, will graduate at Harvard Medical College, February 12, 1918. He is living at 1071 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

J. F. Wilson, ex-'16, is a Senior in the Medical Department of the University of Georgia.

A. F. Forgartie, ex-'15, will graduate at Louisville Theological Seminary in May, 1918.

George S. Thornton, ex-'15, is a sergeant in the Regular Army, located now at Camp Pike, Little Rock, Ark.

L. D. McKinnon, '17, who is in 117th Field Hospital Corps, 105 S. T., Camp Sevier, Greenville, S. C., was on the Hill last week.

C. R. Wilson, ex-'15, is a merchant at Arlington, Tenn.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05, of Dillon, S. C., was married to Miss Antoinette Long, of Farmington, N. C., October 24, 1917.

N. E. Buchanan, ex-'14, is with the Ford Motor Co., at Charlotte, N.C.

Walter William Moore was born in Charlotte, N.C., June 27, 1857. He is of Scotch-Irish extraction. His academic training was begun in the Charlotte High Schools; A.B., Davidson College, 1878; Union Theological Seminary, 1878-81; D.D., Central University, 1885; LL.D., Davidson College, 1892; Evangelist, Swannanoa, N. C., 1881-'82; Pastor, Millersburg, Ky., 1882-'83; Professor of Hebrew Language and Old Testament Exegesis, Union Seminary, 1883-1912; President and Lecturer on Biblical Literature, Union Seminary, since 1904; Lecturer, McCormick Seminary, 1895; Stone Lecturer, Princeton Seminary, 1897; Member of International Sunday School Lesson Committee, 1900-'05; Moderator Synod of Virginia, 1899; Moderator General Assembly, 1908. Author: A Year in Europe, 1904; The Indispensable Book, 1910; Appreciations and Historical Addresses, 1914. He will deliver the Otts Lectures at Davidson next year. He has been President of Union Seminary since 1905.

The students are all glad to hear that N. S. Richards will soon be out again. Another X-ray was made last week. It showed that the broken limb was mending fast. It is probable that he can be back in Davidson by the end of this week.

The young man in college or out of college who sins against his body so as to unfit himself for higher service is a suicide, so far as any help to the Government is concerned. Governor Bickett, in the State.

The Senior Class is rapidly disposing of the problems which confront every graduating class. A committee has been appointed by the president, J. B. Daffin, to offer suggestions for a class gift to the college, and will report at an early date. Master John Monroe Douglas, son of Dr. J. M. Douglas, has been elected class mascot. The plans for Senior Speaking, to be held November 30-December 2, are being laid now, and soon absent-minded Seniors will be repeating bursts of eloquence in season and out. The programs have been ordered from Everett-Waddey Co., of Richmond, Va. The Orchestra and Glee Club will give a concert, as usual, on Saturday night, after the forty-eight Seniors have successfully endured the ordeal.

The dignified Seniors desiring to be carried further than a Ford, and with a speed greater than that of any son of Nancy Hanks, have purchased one of those things which is more exhilarating.

MANY LIBERTY BONDS SOLD IN DAVIDSON

Up to 1 o'clock Saturday, the Bank of Davidson had sold Liberty Bonds amounting to $14,500, with several hours still remaining to sell to anyone who wished them. Bank officials were confident that the total sales would amount to not far from $20,000 before the closing hour. There were many purchasers of the bonds, some of the largest amounts being one of $5,000, one of $1,500, three of $1,000, and numbers of $100 and $50 bonds. This was a good showing for a town the size of Davidson and was good evidence that

SENIOR SPEAKING IS DRAWING NEAR RAPIDLY

It had been hoped that the Secretary could spend a large part of the day in Charlotte, but he was obliged to leave soon after his speech was finished. Only a few from Davidson heard him, as Governor Bickett delivered an address at Shearer Hall the same day.

JACK TAR 16 MADE WITH THIS OVAL BUTTONHOLE A NEW STYLE IN COLLARS IN AMERICA OLDEST BRAND UNITED SHIRT & COLLAR CO., TROY, N.Y.

Kodak Developing CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N.C.N. C. L. C. BRAND, 77 Chambers

More sustaining than a ton of Tanlac, more comforting to the inner man than the fattest porker in the land, and more comforting to the inner man than 'possum and potatoes—in other words, they have bought a Liberty Bond. This bond has been turned over to the college and will be added to the funds of Davidson College. The Juniors have followed in the steps of the graduating class, and it is hoped the other classes will follow suit.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.

LINE-UP OF FURMAN IN SATURDAY'S GAME

The victorious Davidson team will journey to Greenville, S. C., next Saturday to play Furman University. The annual game with this institution is generally looked upon as a practice affair. However, this year Furman promises us a real game. To begin with, she has a good coach in Laval, who is assisted by Smith, of Swarthmore. The Furman “Hornet” claims that “... these two men form perhaps the best coaching staff. As evidenced by their work, they are efficient coaches. Despite the loss of seven of last year’s best players and the scarcity of material this year, these men have succeeded in building up a light but speedy and plucky team. The team has a fighting spirit that makes them fight in the face of all odds. They held Georgia Tech to a 25-0 score and succeeded in making their sister institution, Wake Forest, feel its sting of defeat by the score of 7-6. In these encounters, the stars for Furman have been “Speedy” Speer, Waters, and Shirley. The latter is one of last year’s stars and mainstays. In Furman, Davidson will find a plucky and well-coached team that will fight to the last. On the other hand, Davidson, with Burns back in the game, should present her most formidable machine. The probable line-up of Furman will be: Boyd, center; Jones, right guard; Sims, left guard; Carson, right tackle; Brown, left tackle; Shirley, right end; Wright, left end; Gregory, quarterback; Speer, left halfback; Waters, right halfback; Gressett, fullback.

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. A. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky
Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life for students.

SECRETARY McADOO SPEAKS IN CHARLOTTE

At a fitting climax to Charlotte's magnificent drive for the second Liberty Loan, Secretary of Treasury McAdoo made a ringing speech on patriotism there last Thursday. Especially did he urge every loyal American to buy a Liberty Bond, forcibly and clearly showing that it was not only a duty but a privilege extended to every American “to make the world safe for Democracy.” The Secretary was handicapped by a

TO THE SENIOR CLASS:

I am at your service for the typing of your Senior Speeches at the lowest prices. Work called for and delivered on time, and work guaranteed to satisfy. Call on me. A. S. POTTS, 43 Chambers.

If it's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want, see the Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

MECKLENBURG and STONEWALL AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Rates: $1.00 and Up
J. P. SAUNDERS, President

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Thos. E. Wilson & Co.
Unconditionally guarantee all their sporting goods and athletic equipment to give the satisfactory service which you think they should give. We leave the decision to you. Your own sense of fair play decides. Our dealers are authorized to abide by your judgment, and to adjust any claim you make.

Official and Standard Athletic Equipment
Be sure you find the Wilson trade mark on your Football Equipment, Basketball equipment, Sweaters, Shoes, Indoor League Balls, Bats and Equipment, Golf Clubs, Golf Balls and Equipment, Tennis, Track and Gymnasium Equipment, Fishing Tackle, etc.

One carbon copy free.