4 The DAVIDSONIAN. October 3, 1917

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People

ALUMNI NOTES

J. F. McMaster, ex-’13, was married to Miss Christine Gooding, of Winnsboro, S. C., on September 18.

H. A. Campbell, ’17, is teaching Latin in Concord High School, Concord, N.C.

The Davidson Graded School will open on Thursday, October 4. All children enrolling will have to present a health certificate.

R. H. Ratchford, '17, is a student at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Professor Withers' wife has entered the New York School of Designing for the winter.

R. G. Reed, ex-’20, is located at Nogales, Arizona, Base Hospital No. 5.

Professor and Mrs. Wood spent Sunday with relatives in Statesville.

C. R. Beall, ex-’18, is studying medicine at Vanderbilt University.

Dr. J. J. Withers is making preparations to build a new home on South Main.

Mr. Rufus Gibbs, of the Piedmont Battery, spent Sunday in town with his father.

Mr. Roy Hunter, of Charlotte, came up Sunday to visit some of his friends on the Hill.

Miss Edith Harris will open a private school for young children at the home of Mrs. Whitaker.

The indications are that the Orchestra and Glee Club are embarking upon a most successful year. A new system of organization has been inaugurated which consists of a president, librarian, and executive committee. The executive committee consists of the manager, assistant manager, leader of the Glee Club, director of the Orchestra, and the librarian. This committee has entire charge of the plans and finances of the organization. The books are open at all times and the managers make monthly reports to this committee.

At a meeting last week, J. L. Fowle was elected manager and leader of the Glee Club; E. P. Childs, director of the Orchestra; and D. R. Freeman elected librarian. A special invitation is extended to the new men who have any vocal or instrumental talent to come out to the next meeting of these organizations, which will be announced in chapel.

Manager Childs, when asked about the organization of a Band, said that all efforts in this direction have failed so far. However, another attempt will be made at the end of the week, and it is hoped that more of the new men will respond. Every man who has ever played an instrument of any sort is urged to try out for the band. If you haven't an instrument of your own, it may be possible to supply you with one. Come and see what those in charge can do for you. An announcement of this meeting will be made in chapel soon, so watch for it.

MECKLENBURG and STONEWALL AT CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Dr. Martin is away attending the Wilmington and Fayetteville Presbyteries.

Many friends of Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas will be glad to learn that their little son is getting on nicely.

Work has been completed in painting the roof and outside woodwork.of the Methodist Church. Dr. H. H. Dodson, of Greensboro, spent the weekend at the home of Mrs. Whitaker. Dr. J. W. MacConnell visited his family on Sunday. Rev. Luther McCutchen, of Korea, will speak tonight at the Presbyterian Church. Misses Lizzie and Mary Young are visiting their aunt, Mrs. Allison, in Concord, N. C. Mrs. Fetzer, of Concord, has rented Dr. Lingle’s house and will spend the winter with her son, Coach W. M. Fetzer. Mrs. Overton, of Salisbury, mother of W. S. Overton, '18, spent last week with Mrs. W. R. Grey. Dr. Z. K. Justice was elected by the town council last week as health officer to combat the scarlet fever situation.

LOCAL RED CROSS ACTIVITY AT WORK
Rates: $1.00 and Up
J. P. SAUNDERS, President

Following its organization last spring, the local branch of the American Red Cross Association has been very active. The concrete results of the summer’s work show that approximately twelve hundred dollars have been contributed by them to the National Million Dollar Campaign which was waged during the summer. At its organization, nearly one hundred dollars was raised in membership fees and the above amount has been secured in addition. The ladies of the organization are energetic in preparing supplies to be sent to the soldiers in our armies and a workroom is kept open by them for this purpose. Davidson has an active branch.

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

If it's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE, or BONDS you want, Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

R. R. Horner, ex-'19, is taking a Presbyterian Theological College course.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.

ALUMNI!
Have you sent in your subscription to the Davidsonian yet? Every undergraduate student is a subscriber. Had you ever thought what a splendid paper The Davidsonian would be if every alumnus backed it with his subscription? Are you doing your part? Let us put you down as a regular subscriber before the next issue comes out.
Subscription Rate: $1.25 Per Year

Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky
Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Full staff of Professors. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life for students. Write the President, Charles R. Hemphill.

Faculty - Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

Patronize our Advertisers FIRST. Tell them you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If they haven’t it, Try the Other Fellow. Tell them that they have something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

When You Buy Kuppenheimer Clothes, you are getting the best values possible to produce. Here can be seen the newest correct ideas in CLOTHES. Stetson Hats, Interwoven Hose, Barrister Shoes. Before buying, we invite you to inspect our stock. “We Save You Money.”
V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, and Greensboro.