4

News and Happenings of The Week in Town

Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Friends of Mrs. Ellenwood will be sorry to learn that she is suffering from a broken arm. Her daughter, Mrs.
Woolsey, of New York, has come to be with her.

* * *

Mrs. Alexander, of Morganton, has been visiting friends in town during the past week.

* * *

Mrs. Adams, of Mont Claire, N. J., is a guest of Miss Julia Johnston, on North Main street.

* * *

Miss Cornelia Souther, of St. Louis, is visiting her sister, Mrs. T. W. Lingle, for a short time.

* * *

Miss Louise Manning spent the weekend with her mother.

* * *

Miss Nell Gurger, of Oak Grove, spent Monday with friends in town.

* * *

Rev. A. P. Hassel, ’06, of Japan, has been visiting a few days in town. He left to address Orange
and Concord Presbyterials.

* * *

Mrs. Cumming, of Japan, has been visiting her sister, Mrs. J. L. Caldwell, for a few days.

* * *

Mr. J. McBrown, a former citizen of Davidson, has returned from Arkansas on account of his health, and is visiting
friends in the community.

* * *

Together with the improvements made by the Southern Railroad, the Civic League has spent in the neighborhood of fifty dollars
in beautifying the grounds around the station. Trees have been set out and will make Davidson appear in a much
better light to passengers on the trains.

* * *

Miss Eugenia Adams, of New York, is visiting her aunt, Mrs. J. H. Johnston.

* * *

Mrs. P. S. Kasley, of Statesville, is visiting her sister, Mrs. Manning.

* * *

Mesdames W. R. Grey, J. M. Wharey, J. H. Reed and C. M. Richards and Misses Maud Vinson and Sarah
Wooten, with others, attended Concord Presbyterial, which convened in Concord yesterday.

* * *

Mr. and Mrs. Love, parents of J. J. Love, ’19, with their little son, and Miss Harris, of Converse College,
were here for the weekend.

* * *

Mr. A. L. Wilson, father of A. L. Wilson, Jr., ’20, came from his home in Quincy, Fla., with Mr.
and Mrs. Love to spend a few days with his son. The party will return by way of Atlanta.

* * *

Professor Reed’s mother, Mrs. R. C. Reed, and sister, of Columbia, S. C., are visitors at Professor Reed’s home.

* * *

Roy Lothery spent Sunday with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Lothery.

* * *

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle left Monday for Jacksonville, Fla., to attend the Pi Kappa Alpha convention in that city.

Irate Business Man—“You book agents make me so angry with your confounded nerve and impudence that I cannot find words
to express my feelings.”

Agent—“Then I am the very man you want. I am selling dictionaries.” —Pickings.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 18, 1917

* * *

CONCORD PRESBYTERY MET AT MOORESVILLE

The spring meeting of Concord Presbytery convened in the Second Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, Tuesday night, April 10th, with Rev.
C. C. Myers, of Kannapolis as moderator. The principal work accomplished by the meeting was the changing of the name
of Statesville Female College to Mitchell College, a reorganization of the Home Mission Committee and the increase of its membership,
and the appointment of commissioners to the General Assembly, which meets in Birmingham, Ala., next month. The ministers appointed were:
Dr. C. M. Richards, Rev. F. A. Barnes and Rev. J. H. Brady. A called meeting of the Presbytery will
be held at Statesville, June 5th, for the purpose of licensing Messrs. Dan Caldwell and N. N. Fleming, ’14, to
the ministry. The regular fall meeting of Presbytery will be held in Taylorsville next September. Drs. Shearer, Richards and Lingle
attended Presbytery from Davidson.

WORK ON FLAG POLE PROCEEDING RAPIDLY

Satisfactory progress is being made in the preparation of the flag pole. Workmen are busily engaged in excavating for the
foundations of the pole on the front campus between Shearer Hall and Oak Row. It will be necessary to dig
a hole nine feet deep to get a good foundation for this pole which will have a concrete base. These
two sections, which are now being dressed, are 80 and 70 feet long, respectively. They were secured on the farm.of
Mr. J. R. Withers. The pole when finished will be 130 feet high, with a reversible top and wire rope
for the raising or lowering of a 30-foot flag. The two sections will be riveted together with iron bands. The
next step in shaping up the pole will be painting with at least two coats of white paint. Four smaller
poles will be used as stays for the main pole.

GOLFERS SELECTED TO GO TO GREENSBORO

The golf tournament which began last Tuesday was finished Thursday. The four men making the lowest scores were: J. W.
Clark, averaging 45 for 5 rounds; Rawls Howard, averaging 51 for 5 rounds; H. F. Mayfield, averaging 52 for 5
rounds; B. D. Roddey, averaging 58 for 5 rounds. By reason of their low scores, these men will represent Davidson
in the Southern Inter-Collegiate Tournament at Greensboro beginning April 20. The qualifying rounds of 18 holes will be played Friday
morning, April 20. From this, a first flight consisting of 8 men will be chosen. The finals will be played
Saturday afternoon, April 21st. At this tournament of Southern colleges, a Southern Intercollegiate Golf Association is to be formed. This
will add to the interest of golf at the several colleges and especially at Davidson. A local tournament beginning Friday
is in progress now. The greater number of spectators than usual present testifies to the interest aroused. H. F. Mayfield
and B. D. Roddey will compete in the finals Tuesday afternoon.

Y.M.C.A. ADDRESSED BY REV. W. C. WAUCHOPE

In the Y.M.C.A. meeting last Thursday night, Rev. W. C. Wauchope of Cornelius gave a very interesting address on “Doubts.”
During the lives of everyone, there comes a time when there are doubts. These occur more often in the lives
of thinking men because a thinking man does not believe anything unless he can prove it. These problems should be
laid aside for a short time and they will soon answer themselves. Through this period of doubts, a person should
hold fast to his unfaltering faith and follow the path of duty, whether it is a pleasant one or not.
Sometimes it may seem hard to obey this heavenly vision, but nevertheless, it should be followed.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N.C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights, and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

TO CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP
MOORESVILLE
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

...with the assurance that one is doing what is right. “If a man can preach a better sermon, write a
better book, or make a better mousetrap than his neighbor, though he build his house in the woods, the world
will make a beaten path to his door,” provided he advertises in The Davidsonian. TRY IT.
One Inch, $ .15
Eight Inches, $1.00

There’s a Real “College Flavor” To our Suits for Young Men
THEY really deserve your first consideration when you’re ready for your spring suit—they are made by an organization that specializes
in the production of young men’s clothes—they’re very “snappy.”
Spring Oxfords
Spring “Fixins”
Spring Hats
Mail orders have our prompt attention
ED. MELLON COMPANY
M. O. STYLES

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., H.W. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Petts, Asst. Cashier.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

The teacher was telling her pupils the story of Red Riding Hood. After describing the woods and the wild animals
that flourished therein, she added: “Suddenly Red Riding Hood heard a great noise. She turned about and what do you
suppose she saw standing there, gazing at her and showing all his sharp, white teeth?”
“Teddy Roosevelt!” volunteered one of the boys—E. M. M., Cleveland, O.

Mrs. Flatbush—Who is that woman you just bowed to?
Mrs. Bensonhurst—Oh, she’s my next-door neighbor.
But she didn’t return your bow.
No; she never returns anything.
—Yonkers Statesman.
