The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price................. Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames........ Managing Editor
R. H. Stone........ Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr. Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Wood
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
R. E. McClure, O. C. Williamson, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. T. Lilly, R. W. Robinson, W. M. Currie, J.
R. Morton, J. F. McClerkin, D. M. Chalmers, M. Tremain, C. W. Foreman, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., R. A. McGirt,
T. C. Stone.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

In this, the last issue of The Davidsonian before the new Staff takes charge, we, the old Staff, bid you,
the Reader, farewell.

Who can say that it is absolutely wicked to pitch horseshoes on Sunday, or that he who does so stands
a slim chance of getting into Heaven? But as this is the day of “preparedness” and “safety first,” let’s be
on the safe side and cut it out. At any rate, we have noticed that very few gentlemen indulge in
the sport on Sunday.

Go out to the Athletic Field any afternoon, and you will see the benches lined with admirers and applauders. And
let the team go off and there will be a big crowd at the train to give them a yell
and a good send-off. But there are two teams on the Hill, the Debating teams, that are working every bit
as hard as any baseball player, and yet it is a rare occurrence for anyone to give them a word
of encouragement, and it is hard to work without an occasional pat on the back. Then, too, the Debating teams
serve the college fully as much, in proportion to the men composing them, as any athletic team. This is due
to lack of interest in debating, which might be revived by having a debate on the Hill. But whether this
is done or not, the next time you run across a debater, put your hand on his shoulder and wish
him good luck.

Last year a man, who improved and made a success of everything he went into, suggested a plan for making
the Magazine a real success, a thing of interest to all the students, and for putting it into the place
it should be in student life. This plan was to put it entirely in charge of the Junior class, much
as the Annual is in charge of the Senior class. It is a fact known to Seniors that Juniors work
harder on a thing like that than a last-year man would, for the simple reason that Juniors have a record
to make and live through the last year, whereas the Senior, knowing it is his last year, cares little what
anyone thinks or what happens. And more than that, the Juniors would feel the responsibility of getting out a good
magazine. We think this is a good idea. Could not the present Magazine Staff work out the plan in detail?

The DAVIDSONIAN. March 21, 1917

Why is it that every North Carolina daily newspaper has in it an article about Wake Forest, Trinity, and two
or three other colleges in the State, but an article about Davidson is rarely seen? Davidson’s name should be seen
in the papers not to advertise for more students—Davidson has as many as she can handle now—but to keep her,
her doings, her superiority, before the minds of the public. Surely if other colleges can do it, she can, and
she can go one better. One man might be selected by each State and County club, who, before The Davidsonian
goes to press, could gather sufficient news to write articles to their home papers, that the papers would be glad
to publish, especially if they were inoculated with news of students from that community. Since these men would be paid
for their work, it would not become uninteresting. And the several men might form a club, the Quill Club, which
would serve to keep up pep.

There have been many hypotheses advanced and explanations offered to show why the Student Council has seemed weak and unable
to cope with the problems of discipline that have arisen. We propose the following: There is at present, sad to
relate, no punishment between a simple warning, or...Putting a man on probation, and suspension. There should be, for there lies
all the trouble. When a Freshman jibes, no one will report him, lest he be suspended, or nothing done to
him at all. And should he be reported, there is no representative body of students that will vote to suspend
a man for so minor an offense. The same thing holds true when a witness shows "contempt of Council” by
refusing to witness. No one would vote to dismiss him from college, and a warning would be meaningless. We contend
that if we can get some penalty to fit our laws, it would be better than changing our laws to
fit our penalties. This punishment has been tried at a college considerably larger than Davidson, and it has proved a
practical success. Hazing is prohibited. From the Student Council, there is chosen by lot for each punishment, men who will
take the offender, whether Freshman who has shown himself too “fresh” or has provoked hazing, or upper-classman who has committed
a minor offense, and give him an official thrashing, varying in severity. This would be more legalized hazing than hanging
a man in court is legalized murder. We do not claim this to be an ideal punishment or solution, but
it is a step in the direction.

MOVING PICTURES TO BE SHOWN FRIDAY NIGHT

Through the courtesy of the National Pipe Co., of Pittsburgh, on Friday evening in Shearer Hall three films of pictures
will be presented. These films show the processes in the stages of production of iron pipe. The company expects to
send a representative to explain the pictures. Also, probably there will be shown the two reels that have several times
been gotten from the Bureau of Commercial Economics. The Committee on Public Lectures announces that these will probably be the
last pictures that will be shown this session under the same auspices. These two features will be very instructive. The
public is cordially invited. As usual, no admission will be charged.

As the paper goes to press, bids are being opened for the second time for the contract of the new
gymnasium. It is expected that the contract will be let this week and work will begin as soon as material
can be assembled on the grounds. Dr. Martin has a cut of the plans ready for THE DAVIDSONIAN, and this
will be printed along with further details as soon as definite plans have been completed.

Just A Little Different

Absolutely sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different,
if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office. We invite a careful and studied
analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each
unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer.
A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be
gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the
part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weather-beaten by unlimited usage that the impression
formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing “look-around-more.” Let us quote
you prices on any printing that is ordinary or extraordinary.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Representative

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods,
Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Representative L. H. Patterson

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for
Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen
33 South Tryon

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Baseball
THE COMMISSARY
