4 State Conference of Y. M. C. A. in Raleigh
Davidson Represented at Interesting Gathering.

The Y. M. C. A. Conference of the Colleges of North Carolina met in West Raleigh on the 23rd, 24th, and 25th of this month. Trinity, Wake Forest, Trinity Park, Elon, Guilford, A. & M., University of N. C., and Davidson were represented. The conference opened at the Y. M. C. A. building of A. & M. College, with twenty-six delegates in attendance. Amid much enthusiasm, Mr. H. D. Elliot, of the International Committee, made an address, followed by other speakers.

The meeting was called to order again on Saturday morning. Mr. Elliot spoke on Bible and Mission Study. After this, there was the regular round table conference and reports from the representatives. Professor Trawick, Secretary of the Committee on Social Service in the South, gave an interesting talk on this phase of the work and pointed out the need for action by all the students in its promotion. The discussion of the Blue Ridge Conference held the attention of all. Definite results were reported by the various representatives, and it appears that a much larger delegation than that of last year will attend this summer.

The meetings on Saturday afternoon and Sunday were characterized by the same enthusiasm and the attendance of both delegates and townspeople. By the helpful discussion and planning for greater results, new interest was aroused. The next year promises great things for the Y. M. C. A.’s of our State. J. B. Daffin and J. T. Maddrey represented Davidson at the conference.

SENIOR CLASS GIFT.

At a recent meeting of the Senior class, several gifts were proposed as a class gift to the college. A flagpole was finally decided upon. The contract was given to Mr. Hill, who has had a good deal of experience in this line. The pole is to be something like a hundred feet high and set in a concrete base in front of Chambers building. Mr. Hill is at work on it now; it will take him some little time to finish the job, as the pole will have to be spliced, dressed, and treated with several coats of creosote and paint.

AUDIT BOARD MEMBERS ELECTED BY STUDENTS

At a meeting of the student body last Friday, the audit board recommended five men, from which three were to be elected to fill the vacancies on the board for the coming year. As a result of the election, W. C. Cumming was chosen chairman, and G. S. Crouch and B. D. Roddey were the other two student members elected.

TANK SOON TO BE ERECTED BY CONTRACTORS

The contractors for the new water tank state that the material has been shipped and that as soon as it arrives, they will be on hand to finish it within five or six weeks. The college's part of the job was to build the foundation, and this has been completed for some time.

The Polity Club held its regular meeting last night, at which meeting S. T. Henderson gave a discussion of Bertrand Russell's book, “Why Men Fight.”

The DAVIDSONIAN, March 28, 1917

PROHIBITION DISCUSSED AT JOINT MEETING

The Ministerial and Volunteer Band joined with the Christian Endeavor Society in its regular weekly meeting last Sunday evening. The topic for discussion was “The Saloon the Foe of Society.” The leader, J. A. Thames, gave some interesting facts showing the progress that prohibition has made in the United States. He and a number of other speakers emphasized the evil effects, physically, economically, and morally produced by even a small amount of liquor. The question, "Why has the saloon not yet been eradicated?" put before the meeting by the president of the society, brought forth a number of pointed replies. The entire discussion showed that although the liquor question is an old problem, it has lost none of its interest.

PIPE AND TUBE MAKING SHOWN IN PICTURES

A very interesting and attractive film was shown last Friday night in Shearer Hall through the courtesy of the National Tube Company. Practically all of the students as well as a good many of the townspeople took advantage of seeing the process through which the iron ore is converted into steel. A representative of the company gave a very interesting lecture in connection with the history, character, and products of the company. After the regular show, a reel of films showing the welfare work being done by this company was shown.

We disapprove of any school using profanity in their yells. It only casts reflections uponyour own school and it is not a bit “cute.” Quite recently we attended a football game where profanity was used in the yells by a student body which was supposed to be a Christian college. We dare to say that they lost many students by that yell besides lowering their own moral standard. Most college students think it is “cute” to use profanity in yells, but we beg of you not to use it, for it is anything but cute. We are glad to say that we can’t remember the day when such yells have been used on Furman’s field by Furman students. We venture to say we are above that and we hate to see any college lower itself by such foolish yells. It is the right thing to do when you yell and holler, supporting your team, but we would leave out the profanity.—Ex.

A TEST.

A professor in the University of Chicago told his pupils that he should consider them educated, in the best sense of the word, when they would say yes to every one of fourteen questions he should put to them. It may be of interest to you to read the questions. Here they are:

Has your education given sympathy with all good causes and made you espouse them? Has it made you public-spirited? Has it made you a brother to the weak? Have you learned how to make friends and keep them? Do you know what it is to be a friend yourself? Can you look an honest man or a pure woman straight in the eye? Do you see anything to love in a little child? Will a lonely dog follow you in the street? Can you be high-minded and happy in the meaner drudgeries of life? Do you think washing dishes and hoeing corn just as compatible with high thinking as piano playing or golf? Are you good for anything to yourself? Can you be happy, alone? Can you look out on the world and see anything except dollars and cents? Can you look into a mud puddle by the wayside and see anything in the puddle but mud? Can you look into the sky at night and see beyond the stars? Can your soul claim relationship with the Creator?—Selected.

MILITARY COMPANY TO BE ORGANIZED HERE

A meeting was called after chapel on Monday morning of all those interested in organizing a military company in order to learn the rudiments of drill work. The voluntary nature of such a company was stressed, and as no officers were elected, it was decided to meet after supper in the Gym to perfect plans for the organization of it.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

DRINK
Chero-Cola
THERE'S NONE SO GOOD
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP
MOORESVILLE
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
CALL WHITE DRUG CO

STATE PEACE CONTEST TO BE HELD NEXT MONTH

The “State Inter-Collegiate Peace Oratorical Contest” will be held in Greensboro on the evening of April 20th. This is an annual event, participated in by representatives of all the leading colleges in the State. Davidson will be represented in this contest by W. H. Neal, who will speak on “The International Mind.” J. A. Thames is alternate.

There’s a Real “College Flavor” To our Suits for Young Men

THEY really deserve your first consideration when you’re ready for your spring suit—they are made by an organization that specializes in the production of young men’s clothes—they’re very “snappy.”

Spring Oxfords
Spring “Fixins”
Spring Hats
Mail orders have our prompt attention
ED. MELLON COMPANY

NEW STYLES...

The Wallace-Brough Milling Co. announces their opening Thursday night and Friday March 22-23 at M. H. Goodrum & Co.’s store.

BIG LINE SPRING SHOES
New Styles—Old Prices
Best Championship Tennis
ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited
John I. Douglas, Pres., B. W. Thompson, Cash.
E. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

—When in Mooresville Visit The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men