Vol. IV. N. C. College Press News and Happenings DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 25, 1917.

Debating Team Triumphs Over Emory

L. A. Chambliss of Davidson Elected President.

The North Carolina College Press Association was formally organized at a convention of twenty-nine delegates from ten colleges of the
State at the meetings held at the University of North Carolina on last Tuesday, April 17th. Organization plans for this
association were started last September by the staff of The Davidsonian, of this college, with T. J. Mitchell in charge
of the work, and were completed with the meeting of the delegates and the formal adoption of a constitution, adoption
of regulations, and the election of officers for the coming year. The purpose of the organization, as stated in the
constitution, is “to promote and upbuild the college magazines and newspapers of the State, to raise the literary standards, to
bring the officers of these publications into closer relationship with one another, and to hold annual meetings,” for the good
of the association and to transact the business of the same.

Upon arrival at Chapel Hill, the delegates were escorted to the office of the Y. M.C. A., where they were
welcomed and assigned to places of residence during their stay. At 10 o'clock on Tuesday morning the first session of
the convention began its deliberation in the Dialectic Society Hall, with T. J. Mitchell presiding as chairman and Miss Liddell,
of the University, as secretary of the convention. The first business before the meeting was the discussion and adoption of
the articles of a constitution, and this work, together with two addresses, one by Prof. R. H. Thornton, of the
University Department of Journalism, on “Efficiency in the Editorial Work of a College Publication,” and one by P. H. Wilson,
of Wake Forest, on “Financial Management of a College Publication,” consumed the hours of the morning session.

At two-thirty p.m. the second meeting convened, finished the work of formulating a constitution and heard a discussion by A.
C. Dick, of State College, on “The Relation of Its Publications to the Life of a College,” and also one
by L. A. Chambliss, of Davidson, on “Obtaining and Selecting Material for Publication.” After the appointment by the chairman of
a committee to recommend the place of meeting for the next convention, and discussion on the policy and work of
the association, the meeting was adjourned till eight p.m.

At the final session at eight o'clock, the election of a president for the coming year was held. Two men,
Messrs. Coates, of the University, and Chambliss, of Davidson, were nominated. After a ballot on these two men, Mr. Chambliss
was declared elected by a small majority. The place of meeting for the next convention was then settled, the invitation
of the State College, at Raleigh, being accepted. The last address of the meetings was next given by Mr. M.
B. Fowler, of the University, on “The Place of Publications in College Activities.” After rendering a rising vote of thanks
to the speakers for their addresses (Continued on page 6)

Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Miss Sue Hall, of Wilmington, has been visiting Mrs. A. Currie, on her way to Banner’s Elk, where she is
a member of the Mission School faculty.

Mrs. R. C. Reed, of Columbia, and Mrs. Landrum Reed, of New York, are visiting Prof. Macon Reed.

Mrs. C. A. Munroe, of Hickory, is visiting her daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Allison, of Concord, motored over to visit the Misses Young during the week.

Mrs. P. B. Fetzer, mother of Coach Fetzer, spent the week-end in town.

Mrs. Martin entertained the faculty and their wives together with a number of out-of-town guests Saturday evening in honor of
Mrs. A. B. Reese, of Charlotte.

The Book Club meets with Mrs. J. L. Currie on Friday afternoon. Mrs. Ellenwood has charge of the program.

Miss Frances Worth took highest honors in examinations for Red Cross work in Washington. This entitled her to a course
in a summer training camp as a scholarship.

Thomas W. Davies, ‘10, spent Sunday on the Hill.

Mr. Donald McQueen, father of J. E. McQueen, ’20, accompanied by his wife, father, brother and two children, came in
their car to spend a few days here during the week.

Dr. W. J. Martin spent Sunday in Salisbury.

The college has furnished the Greek department with a Radioptican, which Dr. Harding is using together with Universal Prints in
his higher classes.

Miss Virginia McFayden is visiting the Misses Martha and Mary Thompson.

Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Goodrum announce the birth of a daughter on April 21st.

David Worth, ex-’18, who, as a member of the Engineering Corps, has been at work in the State, was a
visitor on the Hill during the week.

CLASS GAMES CANCELLED.

Davidson has called off her class baseball series. Owing to the military drill and the action of other colleges in
canceling as many athletic events as possible, the class managers have announced that there will be no class games this
spring.

Emory Loses Series for First Time in Its History.

On last Tuesday night, in the auditorium at Agnes Scott College, Davidson matched its argumentative skill and logic for the
third time.against Emory College and won the series. The subject was: “Resolved, That the employers and employees of public service
corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration.” F. M. Gaines and H. S. Garland, of Emory, upheld
the affirmative, while G. C. Bellingrath and W. H. Neal upheld the negative. The judges rendered a decision four to
one in favor of Davidson.

After the invocation by Dr. J. G. Patton and two beautiful quartet numbers by four young ladies of Agnes Scott,
the debate was opened by F. M. Gaines, of Emory. He showed the need of compulsory arbitration as a remedy
for present industrial conditions. He depicted the horrors of a big railway strike and what hardship it would work on
the public. He also emphasized the fact that the public is the third party in all such disputes and should
have a voice in the settlement.

G. C. Bellingrath was the first speaker on the negative for Davidson, and began his speech by an able rebuttal
of Gaines’ speech, admitting the horrors of strikes, but contending that the proposition the gentleman had advocated would not do
away with such industrial disputes. He further showed that compulsory arbitration is not the correct solution because it is unjust
and wrong in principle. It takes the right to strike away, he contended, from the unions, upon which their very
organization is built. He also contended that such an arbitration court could not render decisions that would be free from
prejudice and bias, as they would be guided more or less by what had been decided upon in the past.

H. S. Garland was the last speaker for Emory, and advocated the establishment of compulsory arbitration because it would institute
a just and fair means for the settlement of all industrial disputes by a board of experts. He contended that
we have found our law courts satisfactory in the settlement of civil disputes and should substitute a similar system for
industry. He explained how the plan would work by each party in the dispute naming its representatives to serve on
this board and that the public would also have its representatives, thereby insuring justice to all concerned.

W. H. Neal, the last speaker for Davidson, showed by quoting good authorities that compulsory arbitration had absolutely failed in
all countries in which it has been tried. In New Zealand, where the industrial organizations are not near so complex,
the plan has proved an absolute failure. He challenged the gentlemen of the opposition to show a single instance where
the very plan that they were advocating had succeeded. This statement and several others brought down the house in applause.
The entire debate was characterized...

(Continued on page 6)

A. and E. Defeated in Meet Saturday

Davidson Gets Eleven Firsts and Wins 64 to 44.

In a fast and interesting meet, staged on Sprunt Athletic Field, the Red and Black sprinters won the event on
last Saturday over A. & E. by a margin of 20 points; the final score was 64 to 44. Much
interest was manifested by a large number of spectators, many of whom were out-of-town visitors.

The local sprinters outdid their opponents in every event except one, which was due, no doubt, to the fact that
A. & E.'s best man, also captain of the team, having been called out to the “Colors”; but despite this
disadvantage the visitors showed their ability on the cinder trail. Homewood was the mainstay for the visitors, winning third place
in the high jump, pole vault, and shot put, respectively, and first place in the high hurdle event. Several local
records were broken, and some higher records disturbed.

At the crack of the gun, Mattison, for Davidson, got off with a good jump and finished the 100 yards
in the close time of 9 and 4/5 seconds, lowering Reid, '97’s record by 1/5 of a second, and coming
within 1/5 of a second of the world’s record, held by Dan J. Kelly, at 9 3/5 seconds. The other
local records broken were: Brand, in the mile run, finished in 4 minutes 47 1/5 seconds, breaking his own record
of 4:48 1/5; Grey broke both of his own records in the shot-put and discus-throw respectively, his record for the
shot put being 35 feet 4 1/2 inches, broken by his new throw of 38 feet; his record for the
discus-throw was 109 feet 11 inches, broken with a throw of 119.5 feet.

The finals of the events were:

100 Yard Dash—Mattison (Davidson), first; Stoffreger (A. & E.), second; and McPhaul (A. & E.), third. Time, 9 and 4/5
seconds.

High Jump—McQueen (Davidson), first; Lawrence (A. & E.), second; Homewood (A. & E.), third. Height, 5 feet 10 inches.

880 Yard Dash—Finley (Davidson), first; Scott (A. & E.), second; Potter (A. & E.), third. Time, 2 minutes 9 2/5
seconds.

220 Yard Dash—Crouch (Davidson), first; McPhaul (A. & E.), second; Stoffreger (A. & E.), third. Time, 24 seconds.

Pole Vault—McQueen and Boggs (Davidson) first; Homewood (A. & E.), second. Height, 9 feet 10 inches.

High Hurdles—Homewood (A. & E.), first; Finley (Davidson), second; Lawrence (A. & E.), third. Time, 18 3/10 seconds.

One Mile—Brand (Davidson), first; Turner (A. & E.), second; Johnson (Davidson), third. Time, 4:47 minutes.

440 Yard Dash—Crouch (Davidson), first; Potter (A. & E.), second; Belk (A. & E.), third. Time, 53 1/5 seconds.

Shot-Put—Grey (Davidson), first; Cook (A. & E.), second; Homewood (A. & E.), third. Distance, 38 feet.

Discus-Throw—Grey (Davidson), first; Cook (A. & E.), second; Law...

(Continued on page 6)
