Vol. V.

Davidson Loses Hard-Fought Game
Winning Touchdown Scored During Last Seconds of Game.

In a hard-fought game, Davidson lost to V. P. I. last Saturday by the score of 13 to 7. From
the very beginning, the game was exciting, and not until the end was victory certain to either side. In the
fourth quarter, with the score 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson, and but three minutes to play, luck broke
against Davidson just as it has several times this season. A Davidson player fumbled the ball on his 15-yard line
and Roden, of V. P. I., recovered. But for this mishap, the result would no doubt have been different.

The first half was hard-fought, with neither side being able to score. The ball see-sawed up and down the field
with several exchanges of punts, the teams being about evenly matched. In the third quarter, with the ball on Davidson's
25-yard line, Peyton, V. P. I.’s star drop-kicker, was substituted for Benner, and kicked a field goal shortly afterward. A
little later, he duplicated the play from the 45-yard line.

Davidson scored her only touchdown late in the fourth quarter on a long forward pass from Flowers over the goal
line to King. Grey kicked the goal, making the score 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson. With three minutes
to play, D. Roden secured a fumble on Davidson's 16-yard line. Successive line bucks brought the ball within a foot
of the coveted goal line, and on the last plunge, Godsey, Tech's big fullback, carried the ball over with a
vicious plunge under the uprights. Captain Parrish kicked the goal.

The stars for Tech were Currie, Younger, and Godsey. For Davidson, Flowers featured throughout the game, while Burns’ and Shaw’s
defensive work was of a high order. Barring fumbling, the game was a high-class exhibit.

Line-up:
Hardwick .. .. .. .. .. .. King (C) Left End
H. Parrish (C) .. .. .. .. Spann Left Tackle
McNeil .. .. .. .. .. .. McMaster Left Guard
Currie .. .. .. .. .. .. B. Crouch Center
Younger .. .. .. .. .. Elliott Right Tackle
Crisp .. .. .. .. .. .. Grey Right Guard
Lester .. .. .. .. .. .. Richardson Left End
Lybrook .. .. .. .. .. J. McAlister Quarterback
Wiegel .. .. .. .. .. .. G. Crouch Left Halfback
Benner .. .. .. .. .. Flowers Right Halfback
Fullback

Substitutions—V. P. I.: Peyton, Miller, D. Roden. Davidson: Miley, Romefelt, Clark, Harris, Spann, L. McAlister.

Touchdowns—Davidson: Spann; V. P. I.: Godsey. Goals from touchdown: Grey, H. Parrish. Field goals: Peyton (2). Time of quarters: 12
minutes. Referee: Marshal (Maine); umpire: Williams (Virginia); headlinesman: Miles (V. P. I.); linesmen: C. Parrish (V. P. I.), and Clark
(Davidson).

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 24, 1917.

Governor Bickett to Address Students
Will Be the Principal Speaker on Davidson Day.

The annual celebration of Davidson College Day, on Thursday, October 25, will be featured by an address by Gov. T.
W. Bickett. The subject of his address has not been announced, but it is certain to be appropriate to the
times. Besides the presence of Governor Bickett, it is hoped that Prof. J. H. Hill, of Statesville, a graduate of
the class of '54, will be present. Professor Hill is the oldest living graduate of Davidson, so far as the
records show, and it will add to the interest of the occasion to have him present.

The other exercises will be conducted as usual. Dr. J. M. McConnell will tell of changes among the alumni. Professor
Currie will report on deaths of alumni during the past year. Another speaker will outline the part Davidson men are
playing in the war. The work of distinguished alums will also be mentioned and the honor roll and punctuality roll
will be read. These exercises will be conducted in Shearer Hall, beginning at 9:50 a.m. An hour and forty minutes
will be allowed for the exercises, this time being taken from the vacant period on the Thursday schedule and by
shortening the other five periods ten minutes each. The students will be required to attend and the townspeople are invited.

HAWKINS AND HALL ARE DOUBLES CHAMPIONS

J. W. Hawkins and W. F. Hall defeated J. H. Miller and W. M. Jones, winners of doubles in the
tennis tournament on Thursday, by the scores of 6-1, 7-5, 6-3. The match was featured by the spectacular smashing of
Hawkins, who kept his opponents on the defensive throughout, and the offensive steadiness of Hall, who played a strictly scientific
game. Miller and Jones played well, but were completely helpless before the teamwork of the champions.

The winner of singles in the tennis tournament may select a partner and challenge the winner of doubles for the
college championship; Hall was selected by Hawkins. Davidson could not be represented by a better team than this pair. It
is hoped that the management will secure several matches with colleges of this State this season.

GUNS HAVE BEEN ORDERED FROM NEW YORK

Everyone is well pleased with the progress the students are making in military drill. They all seem to be interested
in the work. The drill is much preferred to the old gym exercise. Wooden guns for drill purposes have been
ordered from New York with promises of immediate shipment by express. These guns were included in the cost of the
uniform and will entail no additional cost to the students. The uniforms are expected...to arrive same day this week and
the arrival of these and the guns will mark the real beginning of military training.

SONIAN | No. 7

V.M.I.'s Opponent — Dr. J. M. McConnell Next Saturday; Lectures on the War

Large Number of Students Expect to See Game. Explains Clearly Why America Has Entered the War.

That well-known and dangerous Red and Black squad goes to Charlotte Saturday to meet the Cadets from Virginia Military Institute.
When the whistle blows and the ball is kicked off, one of the hardest-fought games of the season will begin.
The Davidson team will be much lighter than their opponents, but their invincible courage and excellent training will fully make
up for what they lack in weight. A large number of students are expecting to go down to the game
and you can look for lots of “pep” and a hard battle.

The fight that Davidson put up against Georgia Tech ranks her as one of the best teams in the South.
The “Yellow Jackets” defeated the University of Pennsylvania and Washington and Lee by large scores, not permitting their opponents to
score a single point. However, Davidson scored ten points, making Tech work harder than she had to work for a
victory this season. If V.M.I. expects easy going Saturday, she is badly mistaken, for Davidson is going to give her
the fight of her life.

DR. W. W. MOORE WILL DELIVER OTTS LECTURES

The college has secured Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union Seminary, to deliver the Otts’ Lectures next year. This
course of lectures will be given before the faculty and student body sometime during the year 1918-19. Dr. Moore has
not as yet announced his subject.

The college received in 1893 a fund from Dr. J. M. P. Otts, '59, the proceeds of which were to
be used in securing and publishing lectures delivered at Davidson in defense of Christianity, especially against those heresies directed against
the foundations of the Christian faith. Dr. Otts delivered the first course of lectures himself. These were later published by
Revell & Co., under the title “Unsettled Questions.” The second course was given by Dr. John R. Dabney a year
before his death and were published under the title “The Atonement.” During the 1904-05 session Dr. J. B. Shearer delivered
the third course. This course was published by the Presbyterian Committee of Publication, Richmond, under the title “Modern Mysticism; or
the Covenants of the Spirit.”

DR. RICHARDS HOLDING SERVICES AT BETHEL

During this week Dr. Richards is conducting services at the Bethel Church. Beginning last Sunday afternoon he has been holding
meetings twice a day, at 10 o'clock in the morning and at 7 in the evening. These services will be
concluded Saturday afternoon.

MRS. C. CAMPBELL

It was with regret that the townspeople and students of Davidson heard of the death of Mrs. C. Campbell last
Sunday night, October 21, after a three-day illness. Mrs. Campbell was Miss Muse, of Carthage, N. C. After her husband’s
death, she moved to Davidson and has kept a boarding house for students on North Main Street for fifteen years
or more. E. R. Campbell and relatives from Moore County arrived Monday night and the burial took place in the
Davidson cemetery Tuesday morning. Mrs. Campbell is survived by two children, E. R. Campbell, ’14, now with the Coast Artillery
at Fort Caswell, and Miss Louise Campbell, a Junior at the State Normal College.

J. R. Minter, '13, M.A. '15, who is now a second lieutenant in the Marines, was on the Hill last
week.

O. C. Williamson, '18, and R. W. Robinson, '19, spent Sunday at Steele Creek.
