THEDA DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 11, 1917. Vol. IV. No. 26

Davidson Is Defeated In Two Games of Trip
Carolina and Trinity Win on Their Home Grounds.

Davidson lost a loosely played game to Trinity Tuesday by a 6-2 score. The game was rather close in spite of the one-sidedness of the score. Davidson drew first blood and kept the lead for five innings. In the sixth frame, Trinity started a rally, bunching hits, and aided by misplays of the visitors, got away to a safe lead. The features of the game were the hitting of Lefler and Minshew for Trinity.

Line-up:
DAVIDSON
Johnson, 2b
Wood, ss
Black, 3b
McMillan, cf
Saunders, 1b
McKinnon, rf
Pharr, lf
Keesler, c
Lawson, p
Hengeveld, lf

Totals

TRINITY
Graham, 3b
Towe, ss
Beal, 1b
Peer, c
Falls, cf
Edens, rf
Carver, lf
Minshew, 2b
Powell, p

Totals

Summary—Struck out: Lawson 7, Powell 6; 2-base hits: McMillan, Beal; 3-base hit: Lefler; stolen bases: McMillan, Saunders, Keesler, Graham, Lefler, Falls, Minshew; base on balls: Powell 2, Lawson 2.

Davidson lost to North Carolina last Wednesday by the score of 8 to 4. The game was very close, hotly contested, and exciting throughout. Worth, pitching for Davidson, was hit freely but kept his hits well scattered except in two innings. Llewellyn pitched good ball for Carolina and was given excellent support by his teammates. Carolina got away to a good lead in the first inning. Singles by Stewart and Barnes, and a home run over the short left-field fence by Folger resulted in three runs. Another was added in the second when Worth, with the bases full, passed Barnes. Davidson failed to score in the first three innings. Black led off the fourth with a single, went to second on an infield out, and scored on a double by McKinnon. Pharr then singled, scoring McKinnon. Davidson scored again in the seventh on clean hits by Johnson and Pharr. The fatal inning for Davidson was the seventh. Llewellyn walked and Stewart got on by reason of an error. Herty singled and Barnes hit over second base for a home run, McKinnon allowing the ball to pass him. Davidson started another rally in the ninth, but one run was the best she could do. The whole Carolina team fielded well. The batting of Pharr was a feature for Davidson.

Line-up:
(Continued on page 6)

Two More Games Played In Varsity Baseball
Roanoke and Emory to be Met In Forensic Clashes.

The next week will be a busy one for the Davidson debating teams. Two important debates are scheduled for the coming fortnight, and the teams are putting forth their best efforts to be ready for the forensic battles. Months of hard work have passed, stacks of material have been sifted, much time and thought has been spent on the subject, and now the debaters go out with the promise of a lively contest for their opponents.

The first of these debates will be with Roanoke College the coming Friday night, April 13th. The date was first set for April 20th, but has now been moved up to the 13th. The subject for discussion is, "Resolved: That the United States should adopt a policy of universal compulsory military service." Davidson will be represented by R. H. Ratchford and T. A. Thames, who will defend the negative. The Roanoke debaters are W. C. Robinson, of Columbia, S.C., and O. F. Blackwelder, of Concord, N.C. O. T. Fikel is alternate and timekeeper for the Davidson team, while B. O. Painter, of Troutville, Va., holds a similar position for Roanoke. Mr. K. P. Otten will preside over the debate, which will be held in the Salem courthouse. The committee to serve as judges is as follows: Judge W. R. Staples, Prof. H. Harte, Superintendent of Roanoke City Schools, and Mr. C. B. Michael.

The second debate is with Emory College on next Tuesday, April 17, when W. H. Neal and C. C. Bellingrath will uphold the negative of the question, "Resolved: That employers and employees of public service corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration." This debate will be held in the Agnes Scott Auditorium, at Decatur, Ga. Dr. Gaines, President of Agnes Scott College, will act as chairman, and the judges selected are Robert L. Foreman, Marion M. Jackson, Linton C. Hopkins, Rabbi David Marx, and J. C. Logan. Emory will be represented by...

(Continued on page 6)

EVENTS OF THE WEEK.
Wednesday, April 11th—Wake Forest vs. Davidson.
Thursday, April 12th—Davidson vs. Statesville, 7:25 p.m., Y.M.C.A.
Friday, April 13th—Trinity vs. Davidson, Davidson, N.C.; Debate, Roanoke vs. Davidson, Roanoke, Va.
Saturday, April 14th—A. & M. vs. Davidson, Gastonia, N.C.; Track meet, Clemson vs. Davidson, Clemson, S.C.; 7:15 p.m., Preliminaries Junior-Senior Debate, in both Society Halls.
Monday, April 16th—Lenoir vs. Davidson, Hickory, N.C.C.; Fresh-Soph Debate, both Societies. Tuesday, April 17th—Debate. Emory vs. Davidson. Decatur, Ga., 8:00 p.m., Polity Club.

Mr. and Mrs. Hurd and children, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Miss Glenwood. Misses Winifred and Katherine Pou and Bonnie Shelton, of Queens College, were at home for the Easter holidays. Mrs. Allen, the mother of William Allen, '20, and Miss Allen spent a few days last week at the home of Mrs. Paisley. Friends of Dr. and Mrs. Lingle will be glad to hear that their daughter, Sarah, is recovering from her recent illness. Professors Currie and Dr. Arbuckle addressed the conference on Stewardship in Anderson Hall, Monday night. Dr. J. McConnell, who was to represent the AME at the local church, was unable to attend Concord Presbytery, which meets in Mooresville this week, on account of sickness. Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Lee, sister of Dr. Sentelle, left Monday morning for Greenville, Tenn. Lloyd Christenbury left Monday morning for Anniston, Ala., to play for Anniston in the Georgia Alabama League. Mrs. R. W. Orr, of Statesville, is visiting Mrs. Dr. Richards. Dr. Richards left Monday night to attend both the Stewardship Conferences and Concord Presbytery in Mooresville. Mrs. C. B. McGowan, of Charlotte, was a visitor of Mrs. Dr. Richards in the first part of the week. Mrs. M. Wharey, who has been visiting in Salisbury, returned Friday. Miss Hill, who is visiting her parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Hill, addressed the Ladies’ Missionary Society last Thursday about her work in China. Miss Callie Christenbury spent Easter at home, bringing with her Miss Mabel Flanagan, of Charlotte.

A STATEMENT.

We take it that our entire college is at the command of our Government to be used as needed. In the light of the action of Congress to be taken this week, we will make every possible and proper arrangement to prepare ourselves to respond at the right time to any call of our country. I expect to get home Wednesday, and we will then decide our definite course of action. In the meantime, I am getting all possible information to act promptly at the proper moment.
W. T. Martin

Locals----Elon Game.

In a ragged game of baseball last Saturday afternoon in Charlotte, the Red and Black went down to defeat before the Charlotte Leaguers by the overwhelming score of 14 to 4. Not only did the Hornets slam the offerings of the Davidson twirlers to all corners of the lot, but nine errors also aided them materially in running up the score. The Red and Black were unable to hit the Charlotte pitchers with much success, only getting six hits in comparison to fifteen gleaned by their opponents. Although the day was perfect for baseball, the game was early turned into a regular jokefest, and outside of a flash of good fielding now and then, largely on Charlotte's part, it was a poor exhibition of the national game. “Dutch” Hengeveld’s work in the box was the only redeeming feature of Davidson's play, the big pitcher holding the Hornets hitless during the three innings he worked, and the three runs scored off him in his first inning were due to errors.

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A E
Johnson, 2b 4 0 1 0 3 3
Keesler, c 4 0 1 8 4 0
Black, 3b 4 0 0 2 3 0
McMillan, cf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Saunders, rf 3 0 0 1 2 0
Pharr, ss 3 0 0 1 4 3
Watkins, ss 1 0 0 0 1 0
Flowers, lf 3 2 2 2 1 2
Miller, rf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Worth, p 2 0 0 0 1 0
Hengeveld, p 1 0 0 0 0 0
Withers, p 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 4 6 24 19 8

CHARLOTTE AB R H PO A E
Bradshaw, 2b 4 2 2 1 4 0
Smith, cf 4 2 2 4 0 0
Anderson, 3b 2 3 2 1 1 0
Winston, c 3 2 2 9 0 0
Singleton, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Brown, lf 4 1 2 3 0 0
Mack, 1b 4 2 1 7 2 0
Holler, ss 2 1 1 0 4 0
Patterson, ss 1 0 0 0 1 0
Fry, p 2 1 2 1 0 0
Barry, p 2 0 0 0 0 0
Russell, p 0 0 0 0 2 0
Totals 33 14 15 27 13 0

Score by innings:
Davidson 002 001 000—4
Charlotte 242 031 02x—14

Summary—Stolen bases: Smith, Anderson, Singleton (3), Brown, Patterson, Johnson, Keesler, Flowers (2); 2-base hits: Bradshaw (2), Brown, Fry; 3-base hit: Winston; struck out: by Fry 1, by Barry 1, by Russell 2, by Worth 5, by Hengeveld 3; bases on balls: off Fry 1, off Barry 2, off Russell 1, off Worth 2, off Hengeveld 7; double play: Singleton to Patterson; left on bases: Charlotte 6, Davidson 9; earned runs: Charlotte 8, Davidson 4; time of game: 1:45; umpire: Mr. Morrissette; attendance, 250.

ELON GAME

In a fast and well-played game, David (Continued on page 6)