The DAVIDSONIAN, March 21, 1917

Shoe Opening
The Gilmer-Moore Co. of Charlotte will have a complete line of shoes on display at No. 2 Rumple today. Let
us fit you.
JOHNSON & POTTS
No. 2 Rumple

Brown's
Something good to eat all the time
17 South Tryon

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank.
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Quickest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
W. L. Douglas, Agent
7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. B. PATTERSON, The Forum

THE PROBLEM OF THE LITERARY SOCIETY
“Once to every college man there comes a time when he can seize an opportunity to affiliate himself with an
organization whose purpose it is to fit him for duties of life.” And it is only one time—during his college
career. At the present time less than one-half of the student body are even nominal members of either of the
two literary societies. Twenty years ago practically every student in college took an active interest in society work. There is
something radically wrong, either in the organizations, or in the ideals of the students, or in some other external circumstances.
To enter into a discussion of all the causes which have combined to lessen the interest in or the calibre
of the literary societies, would be more than the space in this column permits. But without stopping to discuss the
causes for the decline of interest, let me proceed to offer some remedies by which I believe existing conditions may
be remedied. If these suggestions are to become effective practically the whole matter lies with the Faculty.

THE SPECIFIC PLAN
I believe that a new course in theoretical and practical public speaking should be added to the regular curriculum—the course
to be taken up in the Freshman year and required of all those who expect to receive a diploma except
those who join a Literary Society in their Freshman year and do in the society certain prescribed work. I realize
that there are objections to this plan, but with all of its objections I believe that it is a step
forward. There are some colleges—not very many, it is true—which require of all their students that they affiliate themselves with
a literary society. There are also some colleges and universities—and the number is increasing—which are adding to their curricula a
course in theoretical and practical public speaking. The University of North Carolina has instituted such a course. Of the two
alternatives or plans I believe the latter, with modifications as I have suggested, is preferable.

AS TO RESULTS
I think it is manifest that a twofold result will follow if such a course be added to the curriculum:
First, it is perfectly reasonable to believe that a larger number of new men will join the literary societies at
the beginning of their college career. Second, those who do not join the literary society will be provided with an
opportunity to improve themselves in the matter of public speaking and debate. In most high schools there is no way
to escape from participating in such an activity. Here at Davidson there is a way of escape, and, as we
see, more than one-half of the students escape. Out in the world we find this particular need: men of all
walks of life, college men, of course, more frequently, are confronted with the well-nigh inescapable duty of facing a public
audience to give expression to their thoughts. What do we actually have? Fewer men are preparing themselves for such duties
and privileges of life. This, briefly stated, is the problem of the literary society at Davidson and one suggestion for
the remedy of the evil. What shall we do with the problem?
R. H. Ratcliff

An important business meeting of the Civic Club is called for Friday at 4 p.m. Each active member is requested
to be present.

A NEED
According to Tennyson, “In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” But it seems as
if around Davidson many fancies are also turning to thoughts of horseshoes and campus baseball. This indeed is natural, far
more natural than convenient. For on these lovely days, between showers, everyone wants to be out of doors. Then again
the campus does not make such a desirable ball ground either for the ones taking part in the game or
for those who stay in their rooms and study. We can realize this when we remember that our college grounds
are variously spotted with trees, walks, and some buildings. This process of tearing up the campus, batting out window panes,
and raising a grand uproar tends to remind us of what a pity it is that there is not some
ground that could be used by the average college fellow, especially those who seem to be still of high school
caliber. There is in fact no sportThat can be enjoyed by all, as basketball seems to be at a low
ebb. The tennis courts are in bad shape and we do not all feel called toward Varsity baseball and track.
So we find ourselves much in need of a sporting ground that does not infringe on the rights of others,
that does not, on account of its proximity to the dormitories, entice us out for a game in our best
clothes when we really expected to spend the time on something else.

McD.

WHY DOES NOT THE COUNCIL ACT?

The threefold outcome of the much-discussed trial last week by the Student Council has practically forced to an active issue
of the question of the survival of student self-government here at Davidson. The fact that men who were clearly guilty
of drinking were practically dismissed by being given the slightest punishment possible; the fact that a Freshman was not punished
even though he openly showed contempt for the highest body in student life here; the fact that not only was
this Freshman permitted to publicly tell how he “horsed” the council, but that councilmen themselves spread a report of the
council’s disgrace around the campus—all of these have tended to reduce the council to a ridiculous position in the eyes
of the student body. They have not only made a joke out of the council, but have presented the long-pending
question of whether or not the council, as a regular institution, is able to handle such matters of discipline.

Student self-government as a means of teaching young men independence is a splendid institution. As a means of disciplining a
college, here and elsewhere, it seems to be a farce. It is a fact that it is practically impossible to
persuade a council to act with any degree of sternness in any matter where the evidence is not so absolutely
convincing that a blind man could see it. But the council is not always to blame for its inaction. In
the present case, there were two reasons why the council was helpless. The first of these was the constitution; the
second the student body, who could have reversed an adverse action of the council.

The council is sworn to uphold the constitution. A man was indicted for drinking. He answered that the clause in
the “moral code” specified “repeated drunkenness,” and asked the council to prove that he was guilty. Or take a case
of “hazing” that comes up. A man is indicted for paddling a Freshman. The Freshman objected, but the whole affair
was a friendly bout. Under the constitution, the council must decide the man’s guilt. If they find him guilty, he
must be expelled, according to tradition. It becomes a difficult question. Or go back to the Freshman’s defiance of the
council. Is it healthy to allow a Freshman to defy the council? He should be tried for “contempt,” but there
is no such law in the constitution.

Suppose, however, that the council had found the man guilty of drinking and expelled him. At once, he would have
appealed to the student body. The council was of the opinion that the student body would have reversed them. The
council says that the student body does not want to enforce either the drinking or the hazing law. And the
power of the council ultimately rests on the student body. It cannot do anything against the will of the students.
The result is that the prestige of the council has been lowered. Already men openly break the laws of the
constitution. They know that they will not be reported or that if they should be, they would not be punished.
As it is, no one but councilmen feel their responsibility about reporting cases.

At present, too, the students resent the interference of the faculty in matters of discipline. Last year when Dr. Martin
stopped “snowballing” the students were indignant. Yet their council has not—and never would have—stopped it. At present, discipline on the
campus is practically in the hands of no one. The council is helpless. The faculty cannot act without abolishing self-government.
Either a revision of some kind must be made or this latter result should take place.

In the first place, the idea that the Faculty has no right to interfere in such matters is a false
one. The Faculty must set the moral policy of the college else this will change every four years. Again, they
actually have charge of the (Continued on page 6)

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY

Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:

Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY

Do All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty. Gilbert & Patterson: Agents.

SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished. Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50. Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up. Rooms Without Baths $1.00
and $1.50. CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED. Large Light Sample Rooms. LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts. R. W.
FARR, Mgr.
