2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board
H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
A. Woods....... Assignment Editor

The Staff
E. McClure
J. R. Woods
M. Thomas, Jr.
A. P. Saunders

Management
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff
Class of '18—J. B. Woods, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Johnson, Jr., W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, T. E. Guy, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

The College Year 1917-18.
The college year soon to begin will be the most momentous one in the history of the colleges of America.
We are not forgetful of the conditions during and after the Civil War. But now it will be more momentous
because there are so many more colleges and so many more men will be educated. The Officers’ Training Camp and
the draft have made enormous runs on the men of college age and aspiration. Despite this, the college authorities have
made wonderful strides in filling the places of those who by choice and by necessity are deprived of partial or
complete college training. The year will mark the beginning of a change of college ideals. This year will be characterized
by more zeal for collegiate training. Those undesirable elements are largely of the past. Many men have been coming to
colleges for purposes other than developing their individualities and those powers which lie within one. Now those aims and ideas
foreign to the college can best be accomplished away from college in other fields. He who enters college now allies
himself with the same movement, but a movement invigorated, enlivened, and pregnant with the tonic demands of the time.

To the Men of 1921 of Davidson College.
We are glad that you have cast your lot with us. There is not a body of students anywhere who
will give you a more cordial welcome. There is not a college where ideals are any higher and in no
place is the Christian atmosphere so bracing and healthful to the student life. You will be met at the train
by members of the Y. M. C. A. Reception Committee. It is their privilege to cordially welcome you and give
you any advice which you may desire. To many of you things will be entirely new. Do not hesitate to
ask any question which you want to know. The members of this committee will be glad to give you all
the assistance and show you the courtesies which lie within their power. J. B. Daffin, who has charge of this
work, has called to his aid those who will take an interest in you and help you “get hold of
the ropes.” Another thing, study the catalog. Know just where you want to room. Find out all the information the
catalog can give you. Talk with a Davidson graduate or student if possible and ask him to talk with you
about the college and college life. Take your catalog to someone who is able to advise you and with a
view to your life work decide what course you shall take. These pointers will save you and the college authorities
time, trouble, and worry.

The Return.
Members of the student body have spent their vacations in pleasant and profitable places and vocations. Some are in training
camps; some have been on the farms; some have been in universities; some have been in offices, and in various
other places. Now the time has arrived when all of these pleasant avocations will be changed to the pleasurable vocation
of completing a college education. Many will be the cordial handshakes and “Did you have a pleasant vacation?” The same
fine Red and Black spirit which is ever the same will be united and its potential will be increased. The
college walls will rejoice for our return. It will be the aim of the Staff to give our readers first-hand
articles concerning the various phases of military life. Davidson has many men—all men of ability—many men of literary genius and
talent. We aim to get in touch with these pioneers whose business is “Licking Germany,” and publish articles of theirs
with which those of Mary Roberts Rinehart cannot vie. Watch our columns for these stirring informative articles full of individuality.

Marriage Announcement of Professor Wood
The following announcement will be read with interest by the students and other friends of Professor Wood:
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Lewis Price announce the marriage of their daughter Sally Lewis to Mr. William Woodhill Wood on
Wednesday the twenty-second of August, 1917, Lewisburg, West Virginia. Professor and Mrs. Wood will be at home in Davidson after
the 15th of September.

Prof. H. B. Overcash to Teach Biology
In the absence of Dr. J. W. McConnell, the popular college physician and professor of Biology, Prof. H. B. Overcash
has been secured by Dr. Martin to take charge of this department. Professor Overcash is a graduate of the class
of ‘15. He held the distinction of being one of the best students of his class. Since his graduation, he
has been head of the Science Department of Catawba College. During the summer he did special work in Zoology and
in experimental Biology at the University of Virginia. Professor Overcash will give the same courses of instruction which heretofore have
been given and they will be interesting and educational in every respect.

The Summer School session of the University of Virginia was a pleasant and profitable one. Eight Davidsonians had the privilege
of being under the shadow of Monticello—the home of Thomas Jefferson. Dr. J. M. McConnell was professor of Ancient History.
Miss Louise Manning was taking work preparatory to entering Randolph-Macon Woman's College. Prof. H. B. Overcash, ‘15, did special work
in courses in Biology. Others taking courses were: A. B. Reese, '17; Ed. White, W. M. Fountain, '18; R. H.
Stone, '18, and A. L. Wilson, ’20.

If you have not gotten that subscriber to The Davidsonian, NOW is the time.

English Course
The article “What Is English” in a recent issue of The Educational Review, discusses some very important technicalities regarding the
modern English.courses. It also shows to what degree the objects of the English courses in colleges have been changed as
a result of time and demand. The secondary schools are even changing from the old vitiated mode of preparation, having
a long list of books read, to that of proficiency in English composition. There was a time when the department
of English at Yale contended that the thing to do with Freshmen in the English course was to put them
to reading. At the same time, the chair of English at Harvard said that the proper method was to have
the student write compositions. Written work was required at every recitation. Each of the two universities was trying to prove
to the educational institutions and to the world that their method of giving instruction in English was the ideal. Now
Yale has recognized that she has, for these many years, been holding on to a mere fancy. Their theory has
proven itself false, and the Harvard students are the gainers.

In discussing this almost sudden innovation in the English course at Yale University, the writer quotes the catalog. In 1912,
“the aim is to foster the habit of intelligent reading.” The Yale catalog of 1914: “Preparation in English has two
main objects, command of correct and clear English, spoken and written.” This change was introduced, not only at Yale, but
in all the colleges of higher standing. It is one of merit and is encircled with a halo of appreciation
by the collegiate world.

Some research in our own catalogs shows that this remarkable innovation is equally true at Davidson. The catalog of 1895,
in describing the English courses, has in part: “The Freshman class recites once a week... To foster a taste for
the best authors, classic prose and poetry are studied every year. Frequent essays, compositions, or criticisms are required throughout the
whole course.” In that year, the main object was to cultivate an appreciation for poetry and prose. The catalog of
1900 comes nearer to the present-day conception of the function of the college English course: “The objects of the course
are to train the student to write clearly, accurately, vigorously, and, if possible, gracefully; to cultivate correct literary tastes and
appreciation, and to give a true idea of the historical development of the English language and literature. Parallel readings and
frequent compositions, essays, and criticisms are required throughout the course.”

The deficiency of the old objects of the college English course was realized. The lasting good is not merely appreciation
so much as it is efficiency. The charm, grace, gravity, and melody of the higher forms of literature are of
not much ultimate benefit to a person unless he can express clearly and forcefully his thoughts in oral or written
words. Davidson College made the change even before Yale. Noting the latter's attitude to the course in 1912 and that
of the former in 1910, which is: “The courses in English furnish instruction in composition, the history of the language
and literature. Their object is to give to the student (1) the ability to express his own thoughts through spoken
or written words, and (2) the ability to gain aesthetic pleasure through his native literature.”

The Davidson Freshman does not spend his hours of preparation for English in pondering over, and trying to appreciate, uninviting
books, but in formulating a way in which he can give adequate expression to his own opinions. Sentences are analyzed,
weighed, and balanced. Criticism is made by him of his fellow student's theme. When this work is done, is mastered,
the function of the Modern Freshman English Course is fulfilled, and the desire for reading and study inevitably follow.

DAVIDSON MEN AT CAMP SAPPHIRE

The following Davidson men were councilmen or directors at Camp Sapphire, which was held at Brevard, N. C., during the
summer: William McKay Fetzer, ‘06, our athletic coach; R. A. Fetzer, ‘07, his brother; Hinton McCloud, ‘07; DeWitt Kluttz, ‘11,
M.A. ‘16; A. P. Saunders, ‘18, and C. A. Angle, ‘18. Other institutions represented in the same capacity were Johns
Hopkins University, Citadel, Clemson, and the University of North Carolina. A. P. Saunders, ‘18, the president of the student body,
hopes to be present at the opening of school in spite of his injuries sustained by a fall of forty
feet.

PROFESSOR CARTLEDGE TO TEACH SCIENCES

According to present information, Professor Cartledge, an alumnus of Davidson, is to assist in the departments of Physics and Chemistry.
We welcome him back to Davidson. Mr. Mackey, the physical instructor and coach from Atlanta, has entered the Y. M.
C. A. work.

THE BEST LETTER

You may write a thousand letters to the maiden you adore
And declare in every letter that you love her more and more.
You may praise her grace and beauty in a thousand glowing lines
And compare her eyes of azure with the brightest star that shines.
If you had the pen of Byron you would use it every day
In composing written worship to your sweetheart far away;
But the letter far more welcome to an older, gentler breast
Is the letter to your mother from the boy she loves the best.

Youthful blood is fierce and flaming, and when written to your love
You will rave about your passion, swearing by the stars above,
Vowing by the moon's white splendor that the girlie you adore
Is the one you'll ever cherish as no maid was loved before.
You will pen full many a promise on those pages white and dumb
That you never can live up to in the married years to come.
But a much more precious letter, bringing more and deeper bliss
Is the letter to your mother from the boy she cannot kiss.

She will read it very often when the lights are soft and low,
Sitting in the same old corner where she held you years ago,
And regardless of its diction or its spelling or its style,
And although its composition would provoke a critic's smile,
In her old and trembling fingers it becomes a work of art,
Stained by tears of joy and sadness as she hugs it to her heart.
Yes, the letter of all letters, look wherever you may,
Is the letter to your mother from her boy far away.
—William F. Kirk.
