The DAVIDSONIAN, October 3, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, October 6: Resolved, That the American embargo on shipments to neutral nations is justifiable.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: I. N. Morton and E. R. Boney. Negative: L. L. Wilson and W. C. Cumming.

The Literary Society held its first meeting. At this time the new men were initiated and instructed as to the
work of the society. Interest was shown by the new men, several of whom have splendid high school records. Everything
points to good work for the coming year. About twenty-five men joined the society at the first meeting. Those joining
were: J. R. Stong, J. R. Beal, A. Poteat, R. R. Deaver, R. C. Garth, G. S. W. Chambers, J.
W. McAlister, P. Hart, R. F. Kiser, M. A. Declamation: D. R. Freeman and O. A. Beal Jr., W. C.
Cumming, R. C. Clontz, L. B. McKeithen, C. V. Garth, and Q. A. Hunes.

Eumenean—Affirmative: W. A. McCochern, R. K. Cox, W. M. L. Worth, Burgess, and McGirt. Negative: J. R. Burgess, L. B.
McHarrill, Brand, and Craig. Declamations: Sullivan and Liston.

Eumenean Freshman Society—Affirmative: Heizer, C. M. McCaskill, Oymand, and Rodgers. Negative: Ewing, Scott, St. Clair, and Wilson.

Philanthropic Freshman Society—Debate. Affirmative: I. P. Burney and F. L. Knight. Negative: R. C. Garth and R. C. Clontz. Declamations:
J. M. Dunlap and L. B. McKeithan.

Old Demon Rum got his due in the Eumenean Society last Saturday night. The subject for debate was, "Resolved, That
the manufacture of alcoholic beverages from grain and grain products should be discontinued for the duration of the war." The
affirmative of the question was represented by Byrd and Thomas, the negative by Orgain and Frierson. The affirmative opened with
a broadside of time-honored prohibition arguments and followed these by the contention that this was not only a moral issue
but also an economic issue that at this moment was of vital importance. The negative replied that it was impracticable;
that it would result in loss of employment to many people and of much revenue to the government. They showed,
further, that only a small percent of the grain was used in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages. They contended that
prohibition was an encroachment upon individual rights and that this was an inopportune time for the enactment of such a
law. The judges encouraged the negative by deciding in their favor. The house voted in favor of the affirmative.

With a larger enrollment than last year, the Eumenean Freshman Society has bright prospects. The first meeting was held Monday
night, September 24, at which time eighteen men presented themselves for membership. This is especially encouraging in the face of
the reduced enrollment in college. The first regular meeting was held Monday night, October 1. At this time a debate
was given, Boulware, Brumby, Forgey, and Harwell representing the affirmative, and Cumming, Mitchell, Burgess, and Collins the negative. The subject
was the same as that of the regular societies. All the men spoke excellently for their first appearance in society.
From the present outlook, the Fresh Society promises much.

At the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Society Saturday night, the affirmative was upheld by Fremain and W. F. Hall,
who argued: (1) That intoxicants are injurious to health; (2) that the United States and her allies need the grain
products for food; (3) thatThe nation needs the men in more useful employment. The negative was defended by Foscue and
H. T. Lilly, who contended: (1) That it is not fair for the government to confiscate private property; (2) that
99 per cent of the grain used is not fit for food—this was the strongest argument brought out during the
debate; (3) they further argued that the government could not afford to lose the revenue obtained by taxing the liquor
interests. The decision committee decided in favor of the negative.

On Monday night, September 24, the junior organization of the Philanthropic Society held a debate.

LYCEUM PERFORMANCE NEXT MONDAY NIGHT

The Lyceum this year will be the best in years, if recommendations are of any value. The course is being
managed by O. C. Williamson, '18, and the program has been carefully chosen. It consists of local talent, both vocal
and instrumental, impersonations, humor, sketches, and dramatic readings. When the advance programs were shown to Dr. Fulton, he declared it
to be far better than last year's course. The first attraction, on October 8, is the Kuehn Concert Company, consisting
of a soprano, pianist, violinist, and cellist. The price of a season ticket is $1.50 for the five attractions. The
price of admission to a single attraction is 50 cents, and a special children's season ticket is selling for 75
cents. Tickets can be secured from O. C. Williamson at the Power House, at any time.

Lawrence H. Wilkinson, '16, Charlotte, will be married to Miss Kate Robinson (sister of Coit Robinson, '14) at Lowell, N.C.
on the 4th of October.

A JACK TAR A NEW STYLE FOR FALL AND WINTER 20c EACH 3 FOR 50c 12 FOR $2

United Shirt & Collar Co. TROY, N.Y.

Musical Homes Are Happy Homes

Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is
the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.

STIEFF 219 South Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Much eagerness to begin work

I Will Mend Your Shoes THE COMMISSARY CO. Millinery Company

SHU-F the Right Now

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to
be found on the Hill.

Gilmer Moore Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

All work done by myself and satisfaction guaranteed. Remember my room number: W. C. SMITH

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc. ATLANTA, GA. 74 N. Broad St.

In the Spalding line you have equipment that is officially right, high grade as to workmanship and durable in quality.

Davidson Pressing Club LET THE BASKET CONNECT DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-J South Tryon St. Catalogue on request

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.

Rutledge Norton Lale’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N.C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C. Next door to Post Office.

The Wallace-Brough Save your Shoe Repair Work FIXERY Have on Display Their Trimmed Hats and a line of Velours

Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House

A Nice Line of Pennants, Stationery, Novelties, College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches, and Alarm Clocks

W. M. Torrence The Jeweler 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SPORTING GOODS AND ATHLETIC CLOTHING The Line That You Can Depend on ABSOLUTELY Backed by an Unconditional Guarantee Complete Equipment
for all
