The Davidsonian, April 4, 1917

With the Alumni

REUNIONS.

Plans are now under way for the reunion of several classes at Commencement, and it is hoped that the alumni will lend their hearty support to those in charge of working up these gatherings of the old classes. According to the usual custom, the classes especially urged to have reunions are those in multiples of five to 1917, that is, the classes of 1912, 1907, 1902, and so on. The class of last year, 1916, it is hoped will also have a reunion, as customary. The classes of 1897, 1907, and 1912 are already planning to meet at Commencement. Prof. A. Currie is in charge of the reunion plans of the class of ’97; Mr. Scott Candler, of Atlanta, of ’07, and Mr. J. O. Cobb, of Winston-Salem, of '12.

Mr. T. D. Dupuy, ’01, formerly of Davidson, but now located in Greensboro, N. C., visited the Hill last Sunday.

Rev. John W. Davis, D.D., '69, who has served for a number of years as a missionary to China, died on February 24, 1917, at Soochow, China.

Rev. Leroy G. Henderson, ’92, has resigned his pastorate at Knoxville, Tenn., and for the next year will have a period of rest in Americus, Ga.

E. S. Currie, '12, who will finish his course at Union Seminary this spring, has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church, Raleigh, N.C. He will serve as college pastor to the Presbyterian students in I & E. College.

Rev. Charles F. Rankin, ‘94, has been called to the Second Presbyterian Church, of Birmingham, Ala.

Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., former president of Austin Theological Seminary, Tex., has been called to Chester, S.C.

FICTION AND ESSAY CONTEST IS ANNOUNCED

The Fiction and Essay Contests in the two literary societies close on Saturday, April 28. By midnight on that date, all contributions must be in the hands of the presidents. The length of the essay must be not less than 1,200 words and not over 3,500 words. The length of the article in the Fiction Contest is not limited to a certain number of words. These contributions are to be handed in under an assumed name. The real name of the author will not be known by the judge. The Fiction Contest is inter-society, and a gold medal will be awarded to the winner. In the Essay Contest, a medal will be given to the winner in each separate society. These medals will be presented at Commencement. Of late years, the number entering into these contests has not been as great as it should be. There is no reason why every man in the two societies should not enter.

DAVIDSONIAN STAFFS UNITE AT BANQUET

On last Friday night, a band of nineteen, consisting of members of the old and new Davidsonian Staffs and the editor-in-chiefs of the Magazine and Annual, enjoyed a pleasant evening at the annual Davidsonian Staff banquet. All thanks are due to Mrs. McMillan and her faithful helpers who spread the sumptuous feast which was enjoyed by all. Sitting at the head of the table and acting as toast-master of the occasion was F. B. Price, the retiring editor-in-chief. The whole time was spent very pleasantly, being filled with witticisms which brought forth laughter from all those present. Following the four-course dinner, the toast-master called upon several forewarned members to speak. These came principally from the retiring staff members, who gave advice to the new men and suggested ways of bettering the paper. Following these speeches were replies from all the unexpecting members until a complete circuit had been made and every man present had said something. A brief summary of all that was said would be hard to make. The important feature around which all speeches centered was the function that The Davidsonian has in drawing the students of the college closer together, allowing the expression of our thoughts through the use of “The Forum,” and linking the alumni with the present life of the college. The table was prettily decorated with green and the appropriate souvenir of the evening was a gilded quill pen found at each place. This was made possible through the kindness of Mrs. N. T. Smith. After an exceedingly enjoyable evening in every respect, the company disbanded after giving yells for The Davidsonian, for Mrs. McMillan, and Mrs. Smith.

GOLF TOURNAMENT BEGINS NEXT WEEK

The preliminaries in the golf tournament will begin next week. There will be five qualifying rounds played. The four men with the lowest scores will go to Greensboro to play in the intercollegiate contest. Much interest is being taken.In the coming tournament, Davidson is expected to make a good showing. The golf links at Davidson have recently been improved by the addition of another hole. One of the most enjoyable social events of the season was the party given by Miss Maude Vinson at the home of her mother, on North Main Street, last Saturday evening, in honor of Misses Richards, Wiley, and Johnson, of Converse College, S.C. The home was beautifully decorated with many varieties of spring flowers—more than a score of vases graced the tables and mantels in the library and the parlor. Among the guests were Messrs. S. R. Keesler, E. T. Johnson, J. T. Allen, W. G. Humphrey, W. P. Keesler, J. B. Daffin, L. M. Thomas, T. J. Mitchell, W. F. Hall, and J. P. McNeill. Games were enjoyed until a late hour, when a delicious cream course was served.

For many years, Blue Ridge, N.C., has been a leader and speaker in the Southern Student Conference. Blue Ridge Conference is not a place where abnormally pious fellows go to soak themselves in an atmosphere dripping with religion. If you are that sort of Righteous Willie, you will not feel at home there. They would probably drop you into the swimming pool for the sheer pleasure of hearing your holy tones come gurgling up through the water. You might justly infer that Blue Ridge is not permeated by a severe classic formality. It is a gathering of friends; four hundred young men, and a few older men, enjoying themselves together for ten delightful days. There is nothing greater than friendship, and any possible chance to enter this Blue Ridge group should be eagerly seized. This is not a summer resort where you scrape a shallow acquaintance and painfully converse about the weather or the table. Have you wished that you could share some of the deeper experiences of sane and healthy men? Have you wished that you could get down to something solid in religion? Have you wished you could take time to investigate some things that you have heard vaguely mentioned, or touched upon occasionally but never really explained? Would you like to ask questions of somebody that really knows—somebody that is not afraid to dig into the very heart of things where you will not shock some good old soul and be called an infidel just because you want to examine the evidence and make sure? Would you like to find out what method of Bible study and prayer busy and practical men have found juicy and helpful? Would you like to do something for your bunch at college, or still more, for your younger brother's bunch, to keep them from making fools of themselves and going to the dogs?

You are the man to go to Blue Ridge. But what about finances? I have just two suggestions: (1) Decide to go. (2) Get the money. This chance comes only once or possibly twice in a lifetime; you must not shilly-shally and let the opportunity slip through your fingers.

Shop-Walker—“Do you realize that you were four hours selling those two women a yard of ribbon?”
Saleswoman—“I know, sir. But just as they got to the counter they discovered that they each had a baby just learning to talk.”—New York Times.

There’s a Real “College Flavor” to our Suits for Young Men. They really deserve your first consideration when you’re ready for your spring suit. They are made by an organization that specializes in the production of young men’s clothes—they’re very “snappy.”

Spring Oxfords, Spring “Fixings,” Spring Hats. Mail orders have our prompt attention.

ED. MELLON COMPANY

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company has a new line of Sport Hats on approval until after Easter. Don’t Forget Our Line of REGAL SHOES for EASTER. We also have a nice line of Cool Cloth Suits and a new line of SPRING HATS all up to the minute.

Armour Bros. & Co.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Petts, Asst. Cash.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men