~ The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly.........Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT
I. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. F. McClerkin, W. T. Johnson, Jr., C. W. Foreman, R. T. Liston, J. B. Woods, T. E. Guy, D.
W. Roberts, W. B. Sullivan, S. Price, L. G. Calhoun, W. Love, W. T. Dunlap, and D. M. Oregain.

Assistant Manager

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

COMMENCEMENT.
There will be a Commencement. An erroneous opinion has permeated the student mind and has even spread among the alumni.
The thoughts of war and the “back to the farm” movement have naturally created this false impression. This falsity—the idea
of a short and of-little-rate Commencement—we want to correct. It is true that Commencement closes earlier. But it is also
true that it was emphatically stated to a representative of the Senior class that it was scheduled for three days
with the idea that more guests would come.

The great privilege for which the Seniors have been waiting for four years is almost here. To take away the
activities concerned with “getting a dip" would be disappointing. With the exception of the omission of the literary address, there
is no disposition on the part of the Faculty to deny them this privilege. The Faculty has good reasons for
not having this in the program.

All friends, alumni, and patrons are cordially invited to attend these exercises. The college welcomes you. The members of the
student body desire your presence. Your coming confers an honor upon the members of the Senior class. They have worked
faithfully and are due your attendance and other honors and tributes which you may pay at their graduation.

COLONEL SCOFIELD.
No wreath, tribute, nor tear can express the feeling of our student body for the passing away of our friend—Colonel
Scofield. For more than forty years he has known and befriended students of the College. He took a great interest
in the College and in the students. No one took greater pride and found more joy than he in relating
to us the traditions and history of the institution in its earlier days. When he was disposed, he always had
an appreciative audience of college boys who heard him with a feeling of admiration and pleasure. Of these groups, President
Wilson is the most distinguished—who for hours had talked with the charming storyteller. During the last few years, when in
declining health, he did not know the new men so well. He knew a host of graduates and was deeply
interested in them and was glad to hear of their success. The alumni, in returning, were always welcomed by him.
The deeply felt sympathy of Davidson men wherever they are goes out in mutual feeling to those bereaved. Greatly do
we miss our warm friend—honored by the President and called by the Loving Father.

DAVIDSON AND THE MINISTRY.
In our editorial sanctum, we have some catalogs of Presbyterian seminaries which give some interesting data as to representation. Davidson
is one of the Church colleges of the South. She is educating more men for the ministry than any other
institution connected with our Church. And as far as we can find, our institution is sending out more men for
this field than any college of any denomination in the South. The inference is easy—cum magna laude.

At Louisville, the number of students in undergraduate courses is fifty. Institutions represented are twenty-four. Davidson sends four men. There
is only one other college having a larger representation—Westminster College having six.

Columbia Seminary has fifty-nine students in all courses. Here, too, twenty-four institutions are represented. Davidson has the largest representation—fourteen. The
next highest representation is six.

In all the courses at Union, there are one hundred and seven students. Rather singularly, there are twenty-four institutions in
representation. Davidson furnishes half—there being fifty-three of Red and Black spirit. The next highest college represented is Hampden-Sydney—having eleven; followed
by Washington and Lee—sending ten.

These figures partially account for the wholesome atmosphere and spirit which exists on our campus. These facts show that Davidson
is lining up with the Church.

ALUMNI GIFT.
The gift from the Alumni to the College is being realized. It is going to be an attractive and well-proportioned
building and is ideally located on the campus. You could not have given us a more needed gift nor one
that would be more appreciated. The gymnasium will be modern in every respect and will be a great addition to
our equipment. We receive this asa token of your true love and loyalty for your Alma Mater. When we see
this handsome finished product to the memory of the Alumni, students now and in the future will know that it
is indicative of a spirit of appreciation. This brings College and Alumni in closer relation. The student mind was replete
with joy when work was begun on the site. Last Commencement witnessed the temporary laying of the cornerstone. This Commencement
marks a rapid stage in the building. Attend this Commencement and see the progress of your investment—for it will then
be well underway. The Senior class wants you at their Commencement. Dr. J. L. Douglas, Chairman of the Reunion Committee,
wants, for the College, to have as many of the Alumni to return as can possibly do so. It will
be worth your while to mingle with old friends and to strengthen your love for Davidson.

THE FARMER BILL.

Some students realizing the situation on the farm—shortage of crops, labor problems, and necessity of large production—initiated a petition to
the Faculty requesting that they be allowed to return home and immediately begin farm work. This passed the Faculty, and
a large number have gone to serve their country as agriculturists. If they have gone solely because of the need,
there is no greater way in which they can show their patriotism. We feel that a word should be said
for those who are remaining and working faithfully. Our student body being depopulated as the result of the rush to
the farm and to the training camp it is distressingly hard to adapt ourselves to new conditions and to study.
Those who remain here, faithfully doing their duty and patiently awaiting the Nation’s call to service, are showing as much
patriotism as any class of people.

Just Arrived

ADIOS.

Adios is a Spanish idiom. To save Dr. Grey the trouble—it is translated “goodbye.” Recently we read an attractive little
article, “The Editor As Human Being.” The writer really thought that there were some humanistic characteristics of editors. He says
that the hearts of editors are gnawed by serpents that dwell in their breasts—whose venoms coursing through their veins drive
them hither and yon. This venom had been the pleasure of editing your paper—and indeed it has been a pleasure.
Getting out a paper has some hurried sensations—some hither and yons. But now the hither and yons will be a
pleasure (?) of another degree. It would be a pleasure to us to get out a paper to cheer you
up and to divert your mind from examinations, or to furnish you something to read to the people on the
farm or to help you to be journalistically inclined at Oglethorpe or McPherson. The sum total is we are human
beings. In whatever field of activity you may go, the staff wishes you every success—wishes that your summer may be
spent in a most profitable way. We say goodbye with the hope that all of the three classes below Senior
will return, and with the trust that this publication may play a great part in your future college career. To
the men of ‘17 we rejoice in the successes which are in the future for you. We wish that the
best of fortune may smile brightly upon you in your life of a new sphere. Farewell! A patriotic farewell until
another session begins.

NEW LINE OF SHIRTS

BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

BOOKS - STATIONERY - NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Quality Counts — That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all
these years.

Alex. Taylor & Co.

The Commissary
