The Davidsonian, April 25, 1917 | Literary Societies | SCHEDULE. Debate, Saturday night, April 28th: Resolved, That the United States
should permanently retain the Philippines. Philanthropic—Affirmative: McClure, Mann, Lacy, and W. F. Hall. Negative: Finley, Hart, Reese, and Berryhill. Philanthropic—Declamations:
C. W. Worth, T. C. Stone, Foscue, Fleming, Roberts, and Boney. Orations: Bullock, Cumming, and McDonald. Eumenean—Affirmative: F. M. Mitchell,
A. Brown, Potts, and Keesler. Negative: T. J. Mitchell, N. S. Richards, G. M. Robson, and Saunders. Monday morning, April
30th: Eumenean—Declamations: McCutcheon, McGirt, Potts, and J. G. Richards. Orations: Hobson, Hudson, Humphrey, and Jenkins.

The subject for debate in the Phi Society last Saturday night was, “Resolved, That the Number of Representatives to Congress
Should be Reduced.” Those on the affirmative were Murray, Menzies, Currie, and Ratchford. Those on the negative were N. Y.
Pharr, R. D. Hall, Fowle, and Reese. The main features of this debate were its indefiniteness and the lack of
pep. The principal points of the affirmative were: (1) A small body is easier to handle and there would be
a better chance for debate; (2) By reducing the number of representatives, the expense of the government would be reduced;
(3) By having fewer representatives, each one would have more individual responsibility. The negative contended: (1) There is no need
for a change; (2) The people would not be so well represented; (3) A small body would be more easily
dominated by a few. The decision was in favor of the negative.

In the regular Monday morning meeting, the following orations were given: T. N. Morton, “The Prodigal Son;” H. T. Lilly,
“The Hayne-Webster Debate;” Thames, “The American Soldier;” Mann, “Poverty and Pauperism;” and Williamson, “The Klu Klux Klan.” R. W. Robinson
gave a declamation on “Patriotism and Educational Service.”

In the Eumenean Society last Saturday night, Hobson, Hamilton, Guy, and Keesler represented the affirmative, with Flynn, Patterson, Liston, and
Love on the negative. The affirmative contended that the present body was too cumbersome and that a reduction would make
for more efficient legislation. The negative based its argument on the fact that other nations have larger bodies and that
to reduce would be to make Congress less representative. The judges’ decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative.

On Monday morning, the following men gave declamations: Hollandsworth, “The Married Man and the Button;” Liston, “The Conqueror Worm.” Orations
were made by Hobson, “Washington and Lee University;” J. R. Woods, “Sketches of China;” F. M. Mitchell, “The Danish West
Indies;” and Keesler, “A Comparison of American and European Statesmen.” The officers for the fall term were inaugurated, and short
speeches were made by the outgoing and incoming presidents.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE NEXT MONDAY NIGHT

The finals in the Junior-Senior debate will be held Monday night, April 30th, at 7:20 o'clock. The query for debate
is: “Resolved, That a Pan-American Alliance should take the place of the Monroe Doctrine.” A. R. Craig, R. W. Cousar,
and J. R. Woods, of the Eumenean Society, will argue the affirmative, while W. C. Cumming, J. L. Fowle, and
G. F. Webber, of the Philanthropic Society, will uphold the negative. The judges will be a committee of Charlotte lawyers.

COMMENCEMENT PLANS CHANGED BY FACULTY

Because the country is in a state of war and faces the strong probability of participating to some extent at
least in the suffering and deprivation of the European countries; and because our President and those with him in authority
have suggested the propriety of a quiet life, omitting all unnecessary social functions, and the practicing of a careful economy;
and because some of our own students are enlisting for service during the war, the faculty of Davidson College has
decided to encourage a somewhat simpler program than usual for Commencement this year. All the forensic exercises by the students
in contests for medals, the regular Sunday services of baccalaureate and Y. M. C. A. sermons, and the regular meetings
of the Board of Trustees and Alumni (including the Alumni lunch Tuesday afternoon) will proceed as usual. No special orators
from a distance will speak, and all social functions will be as simple and limited as possible. The final closing
exercises of the Commencement, consisting mainly of the Senior speeches and award of diplomas, will take place at noon Tuesday,
May 29th, and the college will then close its eighty-first session. The college will open as usual with complete organization
for the eighty-second session on the 6th of September next. From present prospects, the entering class of next fall will
be fully as large as last year. There has been no disorganization of work this spring and the college has
proceeded with class work and athletic and other student activities as usual. For those students who enlist and are called
to the colors before examinations, arrangements have been made for full credit for all satisfactory work of the term. All
Seniors called to service before examinations will be granted diplomas, if in good standing when so called. A number of
our students will enlist for Army or Navy service in one way or another, but the larger number will not
be eligible and should not be called. For this and other reasons, we distinctly favor the administration'sMethod of selective draft
or conscription, and we have urged every student to take up some useful and productive form of service during the
vacation, with special emphasis laid on the matter of food production instead of spending the summer in unproductive work or
idleness. (Signed) W. J. Martin, President.

CONTENTS OF NEXT ISSUE OF THE MAGAZINE

The editor of the Davidson College Magazine announces that the next issue will be out in about two weeks. The
following is the table of contents for the issue:

Student Reading, a Study in Statistics. L. M. Thomas; Some Smoke, M. Withers; Reminiscences of China, J. R. Woods; Out
of the Night, Terrell Guy; Napoleon the Great, H. T. Lilly; Slips and Slippers, William Love; The First Draw, Benton
Hale; It, L. A. Chambliss; a Collection of Student Poetry by Hamilton, Beall, Lilly, Cumming, Webber, Andrews, Hart, Hunneycutt, and
Currie.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

The Vanderbilt Hustler—Chaplain Frazier, of the Navy, addressed the students at Vanderbilt in chapel last week. He has been sent
to Nashville by the Government as a recruiting officer. He spoke on Admiral Dewey.

Winthrop Weekly News—The students at Winthrop College were honored last week to hear an address by ex-President Taft. Mr. Taft
spoke on “World Relations,” and emphasized our need for preparedness.

The Hornet—Furman won the debating championship when her representatives defeated both Wofford and Erskine in the annual triangular debate between
the three colleges. The query was, “Resolved, That a National Board of Arbitration with compulsory powers should be established to
settle all disputes between employers and employees.”

The Guilfordian—The Quakers have won nine straight baseball games, defeating such teams as Wake Forest, Winston-Salem League team, Trinity, Wofford,
and State College. According to one article, the only reason Davidson was not in that list was because Davidson was
not played. Guilford has a grand team, but there are nine reasons at Davidson why it should stop its winning
streak.

The Agonistic—Agnes Scott is famed for her beautiful May Day exercises, and those this year will not be below the
standard. Preparations have been begun which ensure a beautiful and impressive day. The queen of the ceremonies has already been
elected.

The Trinity Chronicle—Trinity College has taken up military training with a will and over two hundred students reported for active
drill. All students taking the drill will be allowed to drop a regular three-hour course and be credited with it.
It is at present planned to have eighteen hours of drilling a week.

The Technique and Yellow Jacket—Thoughts of those at Georgia Tech are turning to their annual carnival, which has been recognized
by the students and people of Atlanta as the pivot about which Commencement swings. Plans are being perfected and with
the cooperation of all those interested a successful carnival is assured.

College Topics—The basketball team of the University of Virginia cut short its schedule of games on account of the movement
for preparedness. Several companies drill daily on the athletic field. The Board of Visitors decided that the spring term should
close May 31st, and that there should be no finals.

FACULTY REGULATIONS CONCERNING ENLISTMENT

All Seniors, candidates for graduation, who apply for enlistment either in the Officers’ Training Corps for the war or in
the regular arms of service, will, if summoned by the War Department before their regular examinations, be given full and
final credit for every ticket on which at the time of summons they are passing to the satisfaction of the
professor. If this clears their record, they will be granted their diplomas at Commencement. If behind on any ticket which
they are pursuing now or have pursued in class, they will, on application to the professor, be given an opportunity
to make it up after they are notified of acceptance by the War Department and before they are summoned to
report. The same ruling will apply to undergraduates in so far as finishing the work of this year is concerned.

Vanderbilt University
The Law School
Nashville, Tenn.
Offers a complete three-year Law Course
Write for Catalogue
CHARLES H. WILBER, Secretary
Member of the Association of American Law Schools.

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company have everything, the very newest and most attractive in the Millinery Line.

For Sale
A SIX ROOM COTTAGE
On North Main St. joining Mrs. Young’s. Lot is 150 Front By 306 Feet Deep.
R. F. Andrews, Davidson, N.C.

BOOKS.-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address
LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

Montreat Summer School
Montreat, N.C.
Established and controlled by the Mountain Retreat Association
Third Annual Session. Six weeks beginning July 3rd. Classes and private instruction in Ancient and Modern Languages, History, and Mathematics.
Certificate accepted at most colleges and universities. Also work of the Grammar Grades and Kindergarten given. Send for announcement. Address
Prof. Thos. W. Lingle, Director, Davidson, N. C.

Patronize Our Advertisers FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If he hasn't it, Try the Other
Fellow. Tell him that he has something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
