Vol. V. THE DAVIDSONIAN DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 26, 1917. No. 3

Foot Ball Team Shows Much Improvement
Prospects Are Good for Class Basketball
Bible Study Rally to Be Held Thursday
First Scrimmage Was Held Last Saturday.

Davidson's football team this season will be unique in that it will be composed mostly of last year’s “D.C.” men.
The nucleus will be four “D.” men—A. C. Burns, H. M. Grey, J. A. Shaw, and G. M. King—and several
“D.C.” men who have returned. Of the “D.C.” men, H. Spann, Elliott, A. R. Flowers, G. Crouch, W. Crouch, and
J. W. McAlister are almost assured of places on the eleven, while big “Ed.” White is going to make someone
hustle for a line position.

A light scrimmage was held Saturday in which N. S. Richards, a strong contender for an end, had a leg
broken and will be out of the game for the remainder of the season. Scrimmages will be continued throughout the
week. Coach Fetzer will do his utmost to produce a winning team, although the Freshman class failed to contribute its
share to the squad. Georgetown and North Carolina have canceled their games, but Manager Clark is bending every effort to
fill these two dates on Davidson's schedule and is now in correspondence with a number of colleges. The schedule at
present is as follows:

September 29—Georgetown University, at Washington, D. C. (canceled).
October 5—A. & M., at Raleigh, N. C.
October 13—Georgia Tech., at Atlanta, Ga.
October 20—V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
October 27—V. M. I., at Danville, Va.
November 3—Furman University, at Greenville, S. C.
November 10—University of N. C., at Winston-Salem, N. C. (canceled).
November 17—Wake Forest, at Greensboro, N. C.
November 22—Wofford, at Davidson, N. C.
November 29—Clemson, at Charlotte, N. C.

REPORTERS TO BE CHOSEN FOR STATE CLUBS

Plans are being formulated for the organization of a press club for each State represented here. Dr. Harding, chairman of
the Press Committee, is taking the initiative in this regard and is enthusiastic that a permanent and strong coterie of
clubs be organized. The purpose is to keep the world in touch with Davidson. The plan discussed at a meeting
in the Bible room Friday evening is for a number of students to get in touch with their weekly county
papers and the leading dailies and report Davidson news to them. The newspaper correspondents here are relatively few. This organization
will push things and the great accomplishments and current history of Davidson will be given considerably more space in the
journals throughout the South and West. Of course, not all the students will enter into this work, but it is
expected that a good many will do this patriotic work in the interest of the college.

Social and Personal Items About the Town People

Mrs. A. Currie entertained with two tables of rook on Friday morning, at her home on Main street.

Friends of Dr. W. W. Lingle will be glad to hear that he has arrived safely in France.

Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford had as their guests their sons, Messrs. Spencer and W. H. Cranford. Mr. W.
H. Cranford had his wife and child with him.

Mr. Will Armour, of Welch, West Virginia, is visiting his brother, Mr. Holt Armour.

Dr. Martin and his family arrived Friday from Montreat, where they spent the summer.

Mrs. I. H. Briggs, of Charlotte, moved into Dr. J. W. MacConnell's home last Monday.

Rev. Geo. H. Atkinson, of Salisbury, preached Sunday morning at the Presbyterian Church, while on his way to Camp Greene.
Mrs. Kneble, also of Salisbury, rendered two selections at the morning service.

Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Wharey left a few days ago for Austin, Tex.

Miss Mamie Withers gave an enjoyable afternoon tea on Thursday afternoon in honor of her sister, Mrs. W. S. Patterson,
who is visiting her.

Dr. Richards is attending the meeting of Concord Presbytery, at Taylorsville, this week.

Miss Eloise Martin leaves this week for Red Springs to attend Flora MacDonald College.

Many friends of Mr. J. I. Stewart will be glad to hear that he and his family have moved back
to Davidson from Mt. Ulla.

The regular meeting of the Executive Committee was held at the Civic Hall on Monday night.

Miss Grace Sample, of Huntersville, is visiting her sister, Mrs. I. R. Caldwell.

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Co. will hold their fall opening on Friday night and Saturday, at M. H. Goodrum & Company’s.

Mr. Smiley Washam was married last week to Miss Sallie Whitlock, of Mt. Mourne.

Mrs. Payne and her daughter left Saturday for Raleigh, after a week's visit at Mrs. L. R. Smith’s.

Mr. Livingston, of Louisville, Ky., has been visiting at the home of Dr. Miley.

Will Soon Be Ready.

With the approach of the opening of the class basketball season, prospects are brighter than last year. In addition to
the old court in the Y. M. C. A. building, there are two new ones in the gymnasium building which
is nearing completion. Goals are soon to beerected in the new courts, which are, with this exception, now ready for
play. As far as can be judged from present indications, the Junior class has the strongest representation. Of last year's
team, four men have returned: C. McAskill, A. S. Potts, R. D. Hall, and T. R. Alexander. The Senior team
is the heaviest loser from the failure of men to return. J. D. Therrell, D. G. Worth, J. D. Sprunt,
and C. A. Mountcastle will be badly missed. However, from the fifty men back, they may be able to produce
a winner. The Sophomore team has a good number of its men from last year and bids fair to be
a strong contender for the cup. The Freshman class should put out a good aggregation as they have a large
number of men from which to draw. It is, however, too early to make any predictions as to their individual
ability.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION ELECTS OFFICERS

At a meeting of the Athletic Association held Monday morning after chapel exercises, several vacancies in the list of officers
of the association were filled. These vacancies were left last year because of the fear that many of the men
would not be able to return to college this fall. The following were elected to fill the several offices: President,
H. M. Grey; Vice-President, J. W. McAlister; Baseball Manager, J. B. Daffin; Basketball Manager, C. W. Angle; Assistant Football Managers,
R. C. Carter, C. W. Worth, and J. H. Miller. Student Body Representatives on the Athletic Council, J. A. Shaw
and G. W. Brown.

GEORGIA CLUB ORGANIZED

The Georgia Club was organized last Monday morning with the following officers: President, F. H. Hengeveld; Vice-President, S. M. Gilbert;
Secretary-Treasurer, Sullivan. There were about twenty-five members present. It is planned to send a letter of greeting to the two
Georgians in the service of Uncle Sam, H. B. Fraser and W. T. Johnson, Jr., both at Camp Wheeler, Macon,
Ga.

The Camp Fire Girls will hold their monthly Council Fire on Thursday. At this meeting, several new members will be
initiated.

Friends of Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas will be glad to hear that their little son, who was operated
on for appendicitis in Charlotte on Sunday, is getting on nicely.

Fourteen Teachers

The first Y. M. C. A. meeting of the year was held last Thursday night. The chairmen of the various
committees outlined the work that the association hopes to carry on this year. J. I. Fowle introduced the speakers. J.
W. Clark spoke on the Bible Study Program. The Bible Study Rally is to be held September 27. Dr. D.
Clay Lilly, of Winston-Salem, will be the speaker of the evening. This year, six courses are offered, presenting a large
variety of subjects. Fourteen teachers will be secured to teach the classes. The courses are all good, and the best
teachers possible are to be secured. The aim of the Y. M. C. A. is to have every student sign
up for a Bible course with the firm resolve to attend every meeting and gain the greatest benefit possible. The
responsibility of the students in regard to the Parker Fund was spoken of by L. M. Thomas. A smaller student
body necessitates a larger subscription per student, and the chairman asked the cooperation of every student in raising the money
contributed to Mr. Parker's salary. The Mission Work of the Y. M. C. A. was presented by R. W. Cousar.
He impressed the audience with the importance of the Sunday School and mission work. Besides a number of Sunday Schools,
the Y. M. C. A. expects to conduct night schools for the mill district children and the negroes. Work is
also to be done among the young boys of the town. A great opportunity for doing good among our neighbors
is open to any who are interested. J. R. Woods told of the "Life Work Series" of speeches to be
held during the fall. Good speakers for each walk of life are to present the opportunities of their callings. The
president of the association spoke last. He said there were a great many things a man can find to do
on Thursday night, but nothing satisfies the conscience as thoroughly as attendance upon the Y. M. C. A. meetings. The
Y. M. C. A. expects every man to do his bit. The next meeting is at 7:15 p.m. Thursday night
in Shearer Hall. A larger crowd of Freshmen should be present than attended the last meeting.

CHANGES MADE IN DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

At a recent meeting of The Davidsonian Staff, several new men were elected to fill vacancies made by the inability
of old men to return to college this fall. As members of the Staff, J. R. Daffin was elected to
take A. P. Saunders' place temporarily, and J. B. Woods to fill H. B. Fraser’s place. S. T. McCloy was
elected to fill T. B. Wood's place on the Reporters’ Staff. T. C. Stone was elected as assistant manager to
fill W. T. Johnson's place. All matters pertaining to The Davidsonian should be referred to these or other members of
the Staff, as named on page 2.
