The DAVIDSONIAN, January 17, 1917

Shoe Opening
The Gilmer-Moore Co. opening will be held here at an early date.

THE FORUM
DISCUSS IT IN THE FORUM.
With what degree of success The Forum has met last Fall you are the judge. At the beginning of the
Spring term the editors again desire to urge you, one and all, to use it in discussing any question, more
preferably those dealing with college life. If it’s worth while, write out what you are thinking about and let others
know it.
THE EDITORS.

Have you seen our $2.50 Basketball and Tennis Shoe?
JOHNSON & POTTS
Representatives No. 2 Rumple

“24-hour delivery”
Gents’ Furnishings
Just Received
A New Line of Woolen Shirts, Ties, Socks, Arm Bands, Pants Supporters, Collars, Etc.
Belk Bros.
Charlotte, N. C.
Call at 67 Chambers and look this line over
SPRATT
Agent Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
Quickest : Sayad & Douglas, Agents 7 Chambers

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job
Six suits for $1.00
L. S. PATTERSON

THE PART OF THE POPULACE.
It cannot be claimed that man-made institutions are perfect, but it is perfectly reasonable that some approach more nearly our
ideal than others. Of all the possible methods of governing a student, the form of student self-government approaches, perhaps, more
nearly our ideal than any other form. Its form is the best because it is the most democratic, and, being
Anglo-Saxons, we must ever cherish a democracy. If it is our choice as a form of government, we must then
show our loyalty to it and, at all times, defend it.

During the past two months self-government has fallen into more or less disrepute because its judicial and executive body, the
Student Council, has failed to mete out to offenders of the law the firm and adequate punishment which a body,
with higher powers, thought it should impose. The writer has as strong an aversion as anyone to that egotistic and
pessimistic malady of fault-finding; hence he is slow to offer criticism. And yet, if he must offer criticism, he has
a strong desire to see it rightly placed. Perhaps a majority of the student body—and the writer joins in this
number—blame the Student Council for its failure to act last Fall when it had some evidence, at least, to know
that student honor was being violated. It is not upon this point that I desire to dwell, but upon another
failure just as important—the failure of “the populace” to demand more severe measures against those who were known violators of
student honor. Among this number the writer must number himself, though he hesitates to do so. We desire self-government, yet
we are slow to furnish facts (when we have them) and demand action. It is an essential part of self-government
that all students be prompt to report all violations of it which come within their observation. This is the part
of “the populace”—a part in which it has, to a very appreciable degree, failed in the past. The Student Council
needs the backing of a strong public opinion on the part of “the populace.”
RENOR.

A MAKE-SHIFT FOR THE SWIMMING POOL.
While waiting for the swimming pool now looming up on the horizon, why not make use of the old cistern
behind the power house? This old cistern (used for supplying water to the boiler in case of emergency, not for
drinking purposes) built of brick and cement, is eight feet deep and twelve feet in diameter. On account of its
circular shape one would have to swim in a circle, thus enjoying the delightful pleasures of a merry-go-round at small
expense. Its nearness to the power house will facilitate the matter of heating the water—only a short stretch of pipe
needed. Then years later when “Sonny’s” in college and we come up to the dedication of the new swimming pool,
we’ll walk about the campus looking at the old familiar places and point out to Sonny the place where “daddy”
went swimming.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR TOPICS AND LEADERS
Mr. Henry Lilly, Chairman of the Prayer Meeting Committee of the Christian Endeavor Society, has submitted the following schedule of
topics and leaders for the society meetings during the Spring term. The Student Body is cordially invited to attend the
meetings and also to join the society.
Jan. 21—Seeing Good in Others: Phil. 2:1-11. J. L. Fowle.
Jan. 28—Fruits of the Christian Endeavor Tree: Rev. 22:1-5. J. L. Maddry.
Feb. 4—Visions and Tasks: Joel 2:28, 29; II Chron. 34:1-7 (Consecration Meeting). P. B. Carwile.
Feb. 11—Confession: Luke 19:1-10. A.R. Craig. Feb. 18—Using What Acts 3:1-10. J. B. Daffin. Feb. 25—The Home Mission Boards of
Our Denomination. What They Are and What They Do: Isa. 35:1-10. Geo. C. Bellingrath. March 4—Service: Jas. 1:19-27. (Consecration Meeting).
L. M. Currie. March 11—Spreading the Good News: Acts 8:14-17. D. M. Orgain. March 18—The Curse of Cowardice: John 18:15-27.
J. W. Clark. March 25—The Saloon—The Foe of Society: Isa. 59:1-8. J. A. Thames. April 1—The Quiet Ways of God’s
Providence: I Kings 19:1-13. (Consecration Meeting). R. W. Cousar. April 8—The Significance of Easter: I Cor. 15:50-58. Geo. F. Webber.
April 15—The Lord's Day the Best Day: Neh. 13:15-22. P. B. Price. April 22—How Lying Undermines Character: Lev. 19:11, 12;
Prov. 6:16-19. R. B. Peters. April 29—Missionary Opportunities in Latin America: Isa. 60:1-5. J. Raymond Morton. May 6—Love: I Cor.
13:1-13. (Consecration Meeting). H. B. Frazer. May 13—Fellowship With God: Ps. 119:97-104. S. T. McCloy. May 20—Growing as Christ Grew:
Luke 2:41-52. W. C. Cumming.

THE IMPROVEMENT MEDAL AWARDED

At the last meeting before Christmas of the Fumenean Freshman Society, the medal known as the Freshman Improvement Medal was
awarded to W. R. Love. The Fresh Society, the first of its kind in college, was a great success. The
new men did splendid work and always conducted themselves in a dignified manner. About all of the new men have
already joined the regular society.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB LOSES TWO MEMBERS

The Orchestra and Glee Club have had the misfortune to lose two of their men, F. H. Baker and J.
H. Townsend. At a meeting of the club Friday, January 12th, E. P. Childes was elected to succeed Baker as
director of the Orchestra, and M. A. Tremain, of the Freshman class, to succeed Townsend. Manager Cashion cannot just yet
give out a schedule of the Spring trips; except that he is expecting to make one five-day trip some time
in March or April. The Queens College Choral Club will be here in March, under the auspices of the Orchestra
and Glee Club. The exact date is not yet known.

Professor and Mrs. Reed and children spent Christmas at the home of his parents, Columbia, S. C.

Fall Line of Chase & Sanborn Coffee and Tea

New Lot Men’s Shoes

Armour Bros. Thompson

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHER’S AGENCY

Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address: Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency Charlotte, N. C.

WILLIAM L. MORGAN

For the first time in several years, Davidson has lost one of the members of its Student Body through the
death of William L. Morgan, of the class of 1920. William L. Morgan died in the College Infirmary, after a
short illness of pneumonia, on December 11th. The following resolutions were submitted by the President of the Student Body and
passed by them a short time after his death:

Whereas, the all-wise God, our Father, did through death take from us on December 11, 1916, our college mate, William
L. Morgan, of the class of 1920. It is resolved that, we, his fellow students, submitting loyally to Him who
in infinite wisdom and infinite love makes no mistakes, but does all things well, even though it brings pain and
anguish into our lives; do place on record the high esteem in which we held our brother, whose life among
us witnessed to his manliness of purpose, to his faithfulness to duty, and to his conformity to the Christian principles
which he professed. We sorrow and yet we believe that with him all is well. It is further resolved that
a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family of our late fellow student with the assurance that our
sorrow mingles with theirs, and with the prayer that the God of all comfort may comfort their hearts. And further,
that a copy be published in The Davidsonian and the Presbyterian Standard.

(Signed):
The Student Body of Davidson College.

The following resolutions were also passed by the Freshman class:

Our Heavenly Father has been pleased to take to Himself our classmate, William L. Morgan. While we do not always
understand God's providence, we do believe His acts are always right and actuated by an infinite love for His children.
We grieve over our loss and are sad at the parting, yet knowing the life of our brother as in
conformity to the Christian principles which he professed, we believe that our loss is his gain and he has found
that “to be with Christ is far better.” We direct that a copy of this resolution be sent to the
family of our classmate and published in The Davidsonian.

(Signed):
The Class of 1920 of Davidson College.

Miss Ruth Crowell, of Charlotte, spent the week-end with Miss Eloise Martin.
