The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue:
L. M. Currie, J. M. Gaston, Jr., J. F. Saunders, W. H. Harrell, W. P. Cumming.

Subscription, $1.25 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Editorial

Catoing is the word. Saturday night saw the best parade in several years. In regard to the football victory, Dr. Fulton says when a thing happens once it is an accident; twice, a coincidence; and the third time, a habit. “Keep it up.”

The Seniors are weaving and spinning a lovely web. Senior Speaking is approaching. Though many are speaking on various phases of the war and resulting aspects, yet there is some reaction against a war-time subject.

The Jire Jorrer

We wish that there was no such term as jibe. It is vague, indistinct, and a definite, comprehensive meaning cannot be obtained. It exists and we put up with it in some way. The Freshmen jibe and feel the shock, while the upperclassman knows that such phenomenon exists. There has grown up in a limited and interesting, yet menacing manner, a thing in regard to jibes. The wholesaler has come into our number. A Sophomore has agreed to allow a Freshman to jibe him fifteen times for his piece of pie. We will waive present judgment on the one who will sacrifice his honor as well as the honor of his classmates for a piece of blackberry pie, or a slice of pound cake, to satisfy and fill his morbid enteron. The student body does not approve an action guided by a little stomach, rather than by integrity, honor, and reason. The Freshmen who have craved such a privilege had better take warning. When jibing, you not only make yourself liable to one (who cannot legally handle you), but to student honor and traditions. You are weakening the student system of ideals and can be handled by the Council. Jibing is jibing and the offense is not neutralized by the gift of a dessert. Freshmen had better eat their own pie.

The Davidsonian, November 14, 1917

Featuring French

Professor Withers, of the French Department, suggested a novel thing which is appearing in this issue. It is some live, interesting facts about France written in French. He is making an innovation in his Senior French class and our readers are to share the delightfulness of the feature “La Belle France.” We are not attempting to compete with Les Annales. There is a wonderful enthusiasm among Americans today to learn to speak the French language. Mr. Cole suggested that when we go to France we will want to have an affair of the heart with a lovely French girl. This being quite a contrast for the idle hours when not “over the top,” and appealing to our feelings, we acquiesced. Surely we must know how to say at least, “N’est-ce pas que la lune est belle?”—(Isn't the moon beautiful?)

We thank Professor Withers for the suggestion and for the aid in the compilation of the composition. To work out this will be interesting as well as timely and helpful.

A little folder—“The Y. M. C. A. and the Soldiers”—in which our professor of English, Dr. M. G. Fulton, had a great share in editing, is just from the press. It is a unique exposition of what the Army “Y” is doing and it contains strong appeals for the raising of $500,000 apportioned to the Carolinas. The collaborator with Dr. Fulton in getting this material before the public is Mr. Joe L. Baker. Our classmates go—we should give. “Let's do a super-bit—now!”

Doubtless there is not a college in this state so fortunate as Davidson in that it gets wholesome, first-hand information from Camp Greene. The talks such as were heard Sunday evening and previous ones at the Y. M. C. A. meetings are not to be duplicated. Davidson—the college and town—should appreciate, as both do, the great privilege of hearing such addresses from men whose soul is wrapped up in the work.

Acceptable Holiday Gifts

John was in trouble. He could not make a decision. A friend asked: “John, what are you going to give your lady for Christmas?” The reply was that he declared he could not decide—he didn’t know what. “Well,” said the friend. “I am in the same fix.” More than one fellow in college will thrust his hands through his hair in anguish before the year closes. Upon request, Mrs. Fulton has kindly compiled a list which will aid you in deciding.

Gifts acceptable to a girl from a boy:
- New novels, volumes of poetry, or any good book.
- Cut flowers.
- Candy.
- A vase for flowers.
- Kodak.
- Umbrella.
- Traveling bag.
- Purse.
- A picture frame.
- A clock.
- Sewing basket.
- Gloves.
- Dresser silver such as comb, brush, mirror, etc.
- Or the same in white celluloid with monogram.
- Knitting outfit.
- Writing paper marked with monogram.
- Desk set.
- Jewel box.
- All college emblems and pennants.
- Only simple pieces of jewelry are considered good form, unless the girl is more than a friend.
- A year's subscription to a magazine.

The many friends of Miss Kathryn Worth will be glad to know that last spring she was the recipient of a prize awarded at Converse College for the best poem appearing in their college magazine. Miss Worth has written other poems of...Sterling qualities. A publishing house of Boston has written Miss Worth, notifying her that her poem, “The Deserted Temple,” has been given special mention in their College Anthology for the year, at the same time requesting that she send a collection of her verses for publication. From the Charlotte Observer, we copy the poem which has won the award and the distinction:

The Deserted Temple

He dwelt in the temple of Reason,
Where only the mind holds sway;
And adoring the Goddess of Wisdom,
Forgot he was made of clay.

He learned at her feet all the wonders
Of infinite time and space;
And drunk with the wisdom of ages,
Saw only her shining face.

But alone at her golden altar
Alight with his candles of love,
He heard a soft echo of laughter,
Thrilling low thru the arches above.

Then wonder of wonders—the hermit
Sprang up from the cold stone floor,
And answering the call of the Woman,
Passed out thru the temple door.

Ah mourn—for the temple deserted,
Stands silent with unlit depths,
And an echo of haunting laughter
And the ghosts of its keeper’s steps.

For some time there has been an increasing demand for a college song that was sprightly and full of pep and spirit. The demand seems to have been met by one who wishes his name withheld for the present. This song by a student seems to be just the thing we need for a good-snappy song to back up our team. It is eulogistic in that it praises both Coach Fetzer—who is a mighty force behind our team—and the wonderful team which now has the habit of victory. The tune being the Bonnie Blue Flag, makes it snappy and can be sung with a zest. We print it with the trust that it will meet the approbation of the entire student body and that it will take a leading place with our other songs of athletics:

(To tune of “The Bonnie Blue Flag.”)

We have as good an ‘leven as anywhere is found,
Trained by Coach Bill Fetzer, the best from far around:
And when they're on their mettle—no better near or far—
Are found than the Davidson men who bear no single scar.

Chorus:
D.C., D.C.
They're D. C. men, they are.
Hurrah for the Davidson men who bear no single scar.

They play like men with vigor and jump into the game,
Working with their captain to win a wreath of fame;
And when the game is over and victory is sure,
We'll sing of the Davidson men, whom nothing does allure.

As grave and reverent Seniors, and Juniors on the Hill,
Sophomores, too, in all they do, and Freshmen with their frill,
We'll all unite our voices to spread out far and near,
The praise for the Davidson men, who have no cause to fear.

Chorus:
Shout out the sound to all who are around,
Hurrah for the Davidson men—no better can be found.

DAVIDSON IS VICTORIOUS
(Continued from page 1)

SECOND QUARTER

Davidson’s ball on Auburn’s 28-yard line—Flowers dropped back to the 38-yard line for a dropkick, but the pass went over his head, and Flowers fell on the ball for a loss of 22 yards. Auburn’s ball in midfield—Ducote made 1 yard around right end. Donahue got 6 yards around the other end. Donahue went over right tackle for 1 yard. Revington plunged 1 yard thru the center of the line and first down. Donahue gained 2 yards over right tackle. Ducote raced around right end for 11 yards. Revington gained 1 yard over left guard. Ducote got 8 yards around left end. The ball was on Davidson’s 17-yard line. Revington gained 3 yards and first down through the center of the line. Robinson gained 1 yard, running out of bounds. G. Crouch intercepted a forward pass and ran 43 yards before being forced out of bounds by Ducote. Davidson’s ball on her own 47-yard line—G. Crouch gained 2 yards over right tackle. A forward pass, Spann to Flowers, netted 2 yards. Another pass, Spann to Richardson, was incomplete. Flowers punted 45 yards to Donahue, who was downed in his tracks by King. Auburn's ball on her own 11-yard line—Ducote got 2 yards over left tackle. Auburn was penalized 5 yards for offside. Revington smashed thru center for 2 yards. Ducote punted 50 yards to Flowers, who returned 22 yards. Davidson’s ball on Auburn’s 37-yard line—A forward pass, Spann to Crouch, netted 22 yards, putting the ball on Auburn’s 5-yard line. Spann failed to gain thru center on a delayed buck. A forward pass, Spann to King, was unsuccessful, King dropping the ball. Auburn’s ball on her own 20-yard line—Ducote gained 5 yards over right tackle. Donahue got 2 yards around left end. Revington failed to gain. Ducote punted 45 yards to Flowers, who returned 35 yards. Davidson's ball on Auburn's 38-yard line—A forward pass, Spann to King, netted 25 yards. A forward pass, Spann to Flowers, gave Davidson a touchdown. Flowers punted out to Burns. Flowers kicked goal. Score: Davidson, 7; Auburn, 0. Grey, of Davidson, kicked off 45 yards to Gibson who returned 15 yards. Auburn's ball on her own 30-yard line—Ducote circled left end for 40 yards, being brought to earth by Flowers on a fine tackle. Gordy replaced Esstinger for Auburn. The first half ended here. Score: Davidson, 7; Auburn, 0.

THIRD QUARTER

Auburn’s ball—Ducote kicked 45 yards to Flowers, who returned 12 yards. Esstinger replaced Stiles for Auburn. Harrison replaced Richardson at right end for Davidson, and McAlister went in for G. Crouch. Davidson's ball on her own 27-yard line—Spann gained 2 yards over right tackle. McAlister gained a yard over right guard. Ducote broke thru and downed Flowers for a 5-yard loss. Grey punted 57 yards to Donahue, who was thrown in his tracks. Auburn’s ball on her own 26-yard line—Revington gained 7 yards thru center, and hit the same place for 4 more yards and first down. Ducote failed to gain over right tackle. Revington gained 1 yard thru the center of the line. Ducote circled left end for 15 yards. Revington annexed 5 yards over left guard, and then went 3 yards over...

(Continued on page 6)