The DAVIDSONIAN, January 17, 1917

Literary Societies

SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday Night, January 20th: “Resolved, That employers and employees of public service corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration.”

Eumenean—Affirmative: Burns, Carwile, Cousar, R. R. Craig. Negative: Byrd, Chambliss, A. R. Craig, Cunningham.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Fowle, Howell, Carriker, Caldwell. Negative: Rankin, Hunter, Nisbet, Brown.

Declamations and Orations, January 22nd:

Eumenean—Owing to the election of officers for the third term, the regular exercises will be dispensed with.

Philanthropic—Declamations: Dunlap, Kornegay, R. D. Hall, Spence, Alexander, E. G. Lilly. Orations: Clark, Grey, Richardson, McKeithen.

WEEKLY MEETINGS:

In the Philanthropic Society, Saturday night, the question: “Resolved, That the German peace proposals furnish sufficient grounds to begin peace negotiations,” was discussed. The affirmative was upheld by Hamilton, Campbell, Stone and Webber. The negative by Currie, Davenport, McDonald and Fleming. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative; the house in favor of the negative.

The affirmative contended that Germany’s proposals are fair; that by past experience she has shown herself almost unconquerable; and that it will be useless to prolong the struggle. The negative maintained that Germany is not sincere; that she wishes to shift upon the Allies the responsibility of a continued struggle; and that Europe is not yet in condition to receive peace.

In the Philanthropic Society, Monday morning, the Declamations were: Siske, “Narrowness of Specialties;” Foreman, “Elements of National Wealth;” Calhoun, “The Election;” R. D. Hall, “Universal Education.” The orations were T. N. Morton, on “College Men in Politics;” R. H. Stone, “The Phi. Society in its Infancy,” in which he gave some very interesting facts about the beginning of the society.

In the Eumenean Society, Saturday night, January 13th, the affirmative side of the debate, upheld by C. B. Robson, J. R. Woods, Flynn and Eikel, contended (1) that the proposals made by Germany are sufficient to open negotiations for peace, though they may not seem sufficient to close them; (2) that Germany is not at the end of her resources; (3) that she is able to maintain her present positions indefinitely, and (4) that if England should win she would be as bad as Germany as a dominating power.

The negative, which was upheld by Thomas, G. M. Robson, J. B. Woods and Potts, maintained (1) that the proposals are unfair to the Allies because of the lack of an indemnity for the destruction caused by the war having been fought, and being fought, on their territory, and especially in the case of Belgium; (2) that Germany is insincere; (3) that the people of Germany are starving, and (4) that there is no clause providing for the abolishing of militarism.

On Monday morning, in the Eumenean Society, the Declamations were: “Thanatopsis,” by Brand, and “The Destiny of America,” by Burgess. L. K. Boggs gave an oration on the life of David Lloyd George, Prime Minister of England.

In days of old, when knights were bold, And sheet-iron trousers wore; They lived in peace, for then one crease Would last ten years or more.

We were at the beginning of this war in debt to Europe over $600,000,000, of which amount a large part has been brought back; and in the course of the next year we will have one-half of the gold supply of the world. We declared our financial independence of Europe in over three times our needs; our navy is increased; and many corporations have sprung up doing a profitable business in world trade.

Doctrine was considered in each of the three stages it has passed through since its declarations: South America from foreign conquest; second, as a guarantor of their financial obligations; third, with the co-operation of the Latin American States. It has come to include Pan-America also.

Of war as a great force for Democracy. Era of justice in the heart. This feeling. Influence for peace and international law is pointed out. Been formed in America, composed of thinking men and college students. The hands of the college men and is possible through might and right united. College, closely following all its activities.

NEW WATER TANK.

DR. J. M. McCONNELL DELIVERS LECTURE

Concrete bases are now being constructed. Speaking on “America and the New Epoch,” Dr. J. M. McConnell charmed and held an interested audience on Tuesday night.in the history classroom. This lecture was under the auspices of the Polity Club and is one of a number to be given by prominent speakers in the near future. In discussing his subject, Dr. McConnell gave an accurate description of the war conditions in Europe, which he said affected the United States. The whole world is in a crucible. It makes everything that has gone before in history seem as part of an old regime. America and the new epoch are considered in four phases: First, in Finance and Commerce; second, in Pan-Americanism; third, in Democracy; fourth, in relation to Internationalism. Under the first head, he showed how our manufactures now exceed those of other nations. Under the second head, the Monroe Doctrine was discussed as a protection to America. Considering the third phase, he spoke about a new spirit brought home from the wars by the soldiers. This age is a period of new freedom for workers. America is called the laboratory of democracy. Lastly, in the fourth place, American internationalism and the future of international laws were discussed.

MR. J. P. TAYLOR.
Students of Davidson College were very grieved to learn of the death of Mr. J. P. Taylor, a prominent citizen of Winston-Salem, whose death took place at his home the night of December 8, 1916, after a brief illness. Mr. Taylor was a great friend of the college and an ardent admirer of Davidson. His death was brought very much closer owing to the fact that his son, J. P. Taylor, '20, was a member of the Student Body, and also that several of his sons and nephews have been students of Davidson College during preceding years.

CIVIC LEAGUE NOTES.
At a recent meeting of the Civic League, the first-grade children of the village school presented one-half dozen silver spoons to the club. Plans for the Spring were discussed, and the chairmen of different committees were appointed as follows: Street Committee, Mrs. J. M. McConnell; Sanitation Committee, Mrs. T. W. Lingle; School Committee, Mrs. Arbuckle; Membership Committee, Mrs. C. L. Grey; Entertainment Committee, Mrs. Martin; Program Service Committee, Mrs. A. Currie.

TOASTMASTER CHOSEN.
At a recent meeting of the class, R. O. Harris was elected toastmaster of the Sophomore Banquet, which will be held during the first or second week in February. The place of the banquet has not been decided upon, but it is nearly certain to be in one of the hotels in Charlotte. Fifty-nine men have already signed up to go, and probably more will sign up in the future.

MUSICAL HOMES ARE HAPPY HOMES.
Refinement and culture naturally go with love of music. Joy and brightness are found in the home where there is The Stieff Piano. Ask about our Easy-Payment Factory to Home plan.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

Defy Jack Frost
Spalding Sweater
Big, warm, and comfortable, with a high storm collar that covers the ears when turned up. Good weight, best quality worsted, with a pocket on each side.
Price - $8.50
Others, of course—send for our catalogue
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP
MOORESVILLE - ANYWHERE—ANYTIME

THE COMMISSARY
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

WHEN WRITING OUR ADVERTISERS PLEASE MENTION THIS PUBLICATION