The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Red and Black Quint Plays Two More Games
Elon and Statesville Are Met on Local Floor.

ELON GAME.
In an exciting, but rather poorly played game, Davidson defeated Elon last Wednesday night for the second time this season,
the final score being 28 to 19. The game seemed a little rough, especially in the latter part, and many
close and easy shots were missed by both teams. Elon’s passing was good, but when it came to shooting goals
they were decidedly off-color. The score was close at all times, with Davidson holding the lead throughout. “Eddie” Childs led
in the field work with five goals to his credit, while “Al” Reese had a perfect score, caging all eight
of the fouls called on Elon. “Bob” Walker, besides playing his usual good guarding game, shot another goal and received
an ovation. Franks and Sorrells were Elon’s leading contenders. The line-up was as follows:

ELON, POSITION, DAVIDSON.
Franks, King
Harris, Childs, Forwards
Cox, Hengeveld (C), Center
Sorrells (C), Reese
Seawell, Walker, Guards

Summary—Field goals: For Davidson, King 2, Childs 5, Reese 1, Walker 1; Elon, Franks 3, Harris 1, Cox 1, Sorrells
2. Foul goals: For Davidson, Reese 8 out of 8; Elon, Sorrells 0 out of 1, Franks 3 out of
4. Referee: Booe, Davidson. Time: 20 minute halves.

STATESVILLE GAME.
In one of the hardest fought games ever seen on the local court, the Statesville team defeated the Davidson quint
Monday night by the score of 30 to 28. Although the game was hard fought throughout, the Statesville team managed
to keep the long end of the score all the time. Both sides played excellent ball. For Davidson, the outstanding
stars were King and Childs at forward, and Reese at guard. For Statesville, Holding and Strupner played the best ball,
the former scoring ten of their thirty points. The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON, POSITION, STATESVILLE.
Childs (8), Strupner (6)
King (8), Holding (10), Forwards
Hengeveld (4), Ethridge (4), Center
Reese (7), Morrison
Walker, Brady, Guards

Time: 20 minute halves. Referee: Sebring.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE NOW COMPLETE
Manager Clark, after much correspondence, has finally completed the football schedule for 1917. In the schedule recently published, there were
two open dates, and these are now filled by Furman and Wake Forest. Furman will be played November 3rd, at
Greenville, and Wake Forest will be met on November 17th, the place to be decided later.

Plans And Program For Junior Speaking
Many Interesting Topics Among Subjects Chosen.

The “Nineteen-eighteen” class is beginning to realize to the fullest extent that they are really Juniors, for they are each
preparing themselves and their speeches for the great event of Junior Speaking. The great problem of a good and appropriate
subject kept many of them awake until “the wee small hours” of many nights past, but each of them has
at last decided on one, so all they have to do now is to work and hope for the best.
The program for the speaking follows:

THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 1.
7:30 Music
Invocation
Music
H. K. Aiken, Laurens, S. C.: Nature, the Master Artisan.
C. W. Angele, Greensboro, N. C.: The Value and Necessity of Forest Protection.
N. H. Armstead, Corinth, Miss.: Junior Speaking.
J. S. Bachman (Eu), Bristol, Tenn.: The Motor Truck in Modern Warfare
Music
C. R. Beall, Maysville: Chemistry, A Power.
G. C. Bellingrath (Eu), Decatur, Ga.: The Common Sense of Peace.
J. M. Black, Harrisburg, N. C.: Problems the South Has Faced.
L. K. Boggs (Eu), Liberty, S. C.: The Man of the Hour.
G. W. Brown, Anderson, S. C.: Pan-Americanism.
Music
R. T. Carroll: Patriotism.
L. A. Chambliss (Eu), Chattanooga, Tenn.: Enduring Education.
E. P. Childs, Madison, Wis.: The Orchestra.
T. W. Clark (Phi), Charleston, S. C.: The Unrecognized Teacher.
K. P. Coachman, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Australia.
Music

FRIDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 2.
3:00 PM
Music
Invocation
Music
J. G. Conoly, Red Springs, N. C.: Should Railroad Arbitration be Compulsory?
R. W. Cousar (Eu), Bishopville, S. C.: The Training of Men for the World’s Future.
G. S. Crouch (Eu), Cartersville, Ga.: Justification of the English Blacklist.
W. C. Cumming (Phi), Wilmington, N. C.: Renaissance in Asia.
Music
L. M. Currie, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.: Benedict Arnold.
J. B. Daffin, Marianna, Fla.: The Distribution of Time.
S. M. Davis (Phi), Mt. Olive, N. C.: Hydro-Electricity in the Carolinas.
H. A. Dishongh, Monticello, Ark.: Chemistry.
W. L. Douglas, Dunedin, Fla.: The American Novel.
Music

(Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 14, 1917.

Debating Finals Held On Last Monday Night
Two Teams Are Selected For Contests This Spring.

On Monday night, the finals for the inter-collegiate debating teams were held in Shearer Hall. Eight men, previously chosen by
means of a preliminary contest, were in the final debate. The subject was, “Resolved, That the United States should adopt
a policy of universal compulsory military service.” A committee from the Faculty, composed of Dr.J. M. McConnell, Dr. Sentelle, Professor
Fulton, and Professor Reed selected the following to compose the two teams that Davidson will have this Spring: G. C.
Bellingrath (Eu), W. H. Neal (Phi), R. H. Ratchford (Phi), and J. A. Thames (Phi). R. W. Cousar (Eu) and
L. H. Fikel (Eu) were chosen as alternates. The debate was spirited throughout, especially the rejoinder, and each man put
up an excellent effort. G. C. Bellingrath was the first speaker for the affirmative and claimed that the present defense
of the United States was inadequate and that the proposed system would meet the present deficiencies. Cousar, the first speaker
for the negative, denied the necessity for universal military service, as our defense must be naval. He also maintained that
the proposal was incompatible with democratic principles. W. H. Neal, next for the affirmative, argued that universal service was consistent
with democratic principles and that it did not lead to militarism. H. Fikel also claimed that the United States did
not need a large military force and that it was undemocratic and would surely lead to war. J. A. Thames,
continuing for the affirmative, attacked the present military policy of the United States as being inadequate and fallacious, and showed
the physical and economic value of military training. R. H. Ratchford followed for the negative and said the cost of
the proposed system made it prohibitive and pointed out wherein it was undemocratic and unnecessary. The last speaker for the
affirmative was C. F. Patterson, and he argued that the day for peace had not yet arrived and that the
United States was unprepared to enter any war. He also claimed universal service was democratic. G. F. Weber closed for
the negative and denied that the United States was in danger and claimed that the adoption of compulsory service would
lead to militarism and war. The composition of the two teams has not been decided yet but will be in
the course of the next few days. Davidson debates Emory at Decatur, Ga., and Roanoke at Salem, Va., this Spring.
Both debates will come in April. Dr. Martin will speak at the First Presbyterian Church in Columbia, S. C., today
on “Stewardship,” before a convention, and tomorrow he will meet with the Executive Committee of Davidson College in Charlotte.

Class Football Series No. 18 Is Nearing Its Close
Juniors Defeat Fresh, and Fresh and Sophs Tie.

JUNIOR-FRESH GAME
Last Wednesday afternoon in the third game of the class football series, Juniors defeated the Fresh by the score of
7 to 0. The game was close and hotly contested at all stages. In the second quarter, after a long
end run by “Bob” Jones, Patterson carried the ball over for a touchdown for the Juniors, and Therrell kicked goal.
The ball then see-sawed from 25-yard line to 25-yard line, with frequent exchange of punts, until the last few minutes
of play, when the Fresh recovered a punt and by a series of line plunges carried the ball to the
Juniors’ 10-yard line, when the whistle blew. For the Juniors, Armstead, Jones, and Patterson were the outstanding stars, while Harris,
Sizer, and McMaster did exceedingly well for the Fresh. The line-up was as follows:

JUNIORS. POSITION. FRESH.
Therrell RE Moore
Kennedy RT Leyburn
Parker RG Fetzer
Clark C Long
Conaly LG Inman
Finley LT McMaster
Richardson (C) LE Watt
Jones QB Sizer (C)
Armstead RH Harris
Fowle LH Harris
Patterson FB Richards

Referee, Booe; Umpire, Burns; Headlinesman, Bo White. Substitutions: Fresh, Hennessee for Leyburn, Taylor for McMaster, Morton for Inman. Juniors, none.

FRESH-SOPH GAME
Last Saturday in perhaps the most interesting game of the class football series played so far, the Sophs battled the
Fresh to a no-score tie. The playing conditions, contrary to the rule, were most excellent, and this added much to
the class of the contest. From the first kickoff, it was evident to the spectators that the Fresh, strengthened by
the return of Captain Crawford, had the edge on their strong opponents. The speedy little quarterback seemed to gain almost
at will and kept the ball in Soph territory for much of the time. Toward the last part of the
second quarter, the Fresh carried the ball to their opponents’ 5-yard line and a score seemed certain, but the Sophs
held on the first three downs, and just as a play was being called for an attempt at a field
goal, the whistle blew for the end of the half. The Fresh threatened to score several times in the last
two periods but were unable to make gains at critical stages. The last few minutes of play proved especially exciting,
frequent passes being effected and intercepted in rapid succession. For the Fresh, “Frankie” Crawford was the outstanding star, while Harris,
Moore, and McMaster put up especially strong games. For the Sophs, White, Worth, Clark, and Boswell were largely responsible for
the good work of their team.

(Continued on page 4)
