The DAVIDSONIAN
December 5, 1917

SIXTH SUCCESSIVE VICTORY
(Continued from page 4)

3 over left guard, and Clemson fumbled on the next play, Davidson recovering. Clemson was penalized 5 yards for kicking
on the decision awarding the ball to Davidson. Spann hurled a pretty pass to King for a 35-yard gain and
touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 7; Clemson, 7.

Grey kicked off to Banks on his 15-yard line, Banks returning 30 yards. Bartles made 2 around right end. Time
out for Davidson (McAlister). Bartles made 3 over left guard, Armstrong 3 over right guard, and Bartles lost 7 yards
around left end. Davidson’s ball. Clemson penalized 5 yards. Flowers made 10 yards through right tackle. Burns hit left guard
for 4, McAlister made 1 around left end, and on an attempted pass, Spann lost his footing, being thrown for
a 7-yard loss. A forward pass was incomplete, and Clemson took the ball. Armstrong made 1 through left guard, Bartles
4 around right end. Armstrong 2 over left tackle, and Thackston punted 35 yards to Flowers. Time out for Clemson
(Gee). McAlister made 7 over right tackle. Spann 2 through center. Flowers 4 over left tackle. Time out for Davidson
(Shaw). A forward pass was incomplete. Davidson penalized 15 yards. On an end around play, King fumbled, Clemson recovering. Armstrong
made 5 over right guard, Bartles 4 over right tackle, and Banks 2 over right guard. Witzel hit center for
3, Armstrong left tackle for 1, and time was taken out for Davidson (Elliott). Davidson was penalized 2 yards for
taking time out too many times. Bartles made 2 over left tackle, and a forward pass was broken up. Davidson's
ball on her own 12-yard line. Grey fumbled the pass from center, the ball rolling over the line to the
fence. Grey recovered and returned the ball almost to the field, being thrown by Thackston for a safety within 1
yard of the goal line. Clemson, 9; Davidson, 7.

Ball scrimmaged on the 20-yard line. Grey punted 60 yards to Banks, who returned 2 yards. Time out for Davidson
(Elliott). Romfelt substituted for Elliott. Bartles made no gain around left end. Time up for the quarter. Score: Clemson, 9;
Davidson, 7.

THIRD QUARTER.
Gee kicked off to Burns on the 15-yard line, Burns returning 22 yards. McAlister made 1 over right guard, Flowers
3 over left tackle, and Flowers lost 2 around right end. Grey punted 30 yards to Banks, who returned 5.
Armstrong made 1 through right tackle, but Bartles failed to gain around right end. Time out for Davidson (McAlister). Thackston
punted 60 yards over the goal line. Flowers made 2 over right guard, the ball being scrimmaged from the 20-yard
line. Flowers made no gain over left guard, and Grey punted 30 yards out of bounds. Bartles made 2 through
center, Banks 8 over left guard for first down. Armstrong hit right guard for 2, left guard for 3, and
Banks made 4 over right tackle. Armstrong failed to make it first down and Davidson gained the ball on the
31-yard line. A forward pass, Spann to King, was good for 60 yards. With the ball on Clemson’s 10-yard line,
a forward pass was broken up, Spann being thrown for a 9-yard loss. A second pass was incomplete, Flowers failed
to gain around left end, and on another pass, Armstrong intercepted the ball, but fumbled on attempting to return it.
Grey recovered and ran 15 yards for a touchdown, kicking goal also. Davidson, 14; Clemson, 9.

Grey kicked off to Thackston on the 25-yard line, return 10. Bartles made 5 around right end, Armstrong 5 over
left guard. Banks made 1 over left guard, Bartles 4 over left tackle, a forward pass was broken up, and
Thackston punted 40 yards. Flowers made 9 yards around right end, and Burns hit center for 11. A forward pass
to McAlister gained 5. Time out for Davidson (McAlister). Flowers made no gain around right end. Spann was thrown for
a 6-yard loss on a broken forward pass. Flowers punted 30 yards, Banks returning.15. Bartles made 9 over right guard,
but on the next play, Clemson fumbled in the line and Davidson recovered. Spann was thrown for a 6-yard loss
on an attempted forward pass. Time out for Davidson (McAlister). A forward pass, Spann to Flowers, netted a 50-yard touchdown.
Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 21; Clemson, 9. Grey kicked off to Banks, who returned 10 yards. Banks made 1 around
left end, Armstrong 4 over right guard, Armstrong hit right tackle for 5 yards. Quarter up. Score: Davidson, 21; Clemson,
9.

FOURTH QUARTER.
Banks made 2 over right guard, a forward pass was incomplete, and Witzel punted 35 yards to Flowers, who returned
5. J. McAlister made 6 over right tackle, Flowers 6 over left tackle. Burns failed to gain through right guard,
Davidson was penalized 15 yards. Flowers made 5 around right end, and a punt was blocked, Clemson recovering. Bartles made
2 over right guard, Armstrong 3 over left guard, Banks 4 thru right tackle, but on the fourth down, with
1 yard to go, Davidson held, and gained the ball on her own 2-yard line. Flowers punted 30 yards to
Banks, who returned 3. Banks fumbled the ball on the first play, King recovering. Flowers went around left end for
45 yards, a pass was incomplete, Flowers failed to gain around right end, and two forward passes failed, Clemson gaining
the ball on her own 20-yard line. Bartles made 1 over left guard, 2 around right end, and a forward
pass was intercepted by Grey. A forward pass to Burns gained 28 yards, Davidson was penalized 10 yards, when a
touchdown seemed imminent. A forward pass was broken up, Spann being thrown for a 5-yard loss, and Flowers lost 7
around left end, a forward pass was incomplete. Flowers punted 30 yards to Banks, who was downed in his tracks.
A forward pass was incomplete, Banks lost 5 around left end, Bartles made 5 around right end, and Finley punted
45 yards to Flowers. A forward pass was incomplete. Game over. Davidson, 21; Clemson, 9.

The outstanding stars of the game were Banks and Bartles for Clemson and Gee and Potts in the line, while
Crouch, Grey and McMaster handled the Red and Black defense to perfection, and Flowers, McAlister and Burns starred in the
backfield. Spann was right there as usual with his forward passing, and despite the wet ball, he averaged well.

The line-up and summary:
DAVIDSON (21) POSITION CLEMSON (9)
King (C).......LE..... Thackston
Shaw........... LT..... Crouch
W.......C.........- Gee
McMaster...... RG..... Leightsey
Elliott.......... RT..... Cannon
Richardson......RE..... Kay
Spann........... Q..... Witzel (C)
Flowers........ RH..... Banks
McAlister, J.....LH..... Bartles
Burns.......... FB..... Armstrong

Substitutions—Davidson: Romefelt for Elliott; Brady for Romefelt; L. McAlister for J. McAlister; J. McAlister for L. McAlister. Clemson: Hart for
Cannon; Williams for Thackston; Bates for Gilmer; Finley for Witzel.

Davidson scoring — Touchdowns: Flowers, Grey, King. Goals from touchdown, Grey 3. Clemson scoring— Touchdown: Banks; goal from touchdown, Witzel;
safety, Grey. Time of quarters, 13, 14, 10, 10. Referee, Major (Auburn); umpire, Williams (Virginia); headlinesman, Pitts; timekeepers, Edgerton (Davidson),
Henry (Clemson).

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes. TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ, THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.
