The DAVIDSONIAN, March 14, 1917

Shoe Opening

Literary Societies

The Gilmer-Moote Debate, Saturday night, March 17th:
Philanthropic — Affirmative: Rankin, Hunter, Nisbet, Brown. Negative: Fowle, Howell, Karriker, Corriher, and Caldwell.
Eumenean — Affirmative: J. B. Woods, J. R. Woods, A. R. Craig, and R. R. Craig. Negative: Byrd, Carwile, Chambliss,
and Cousar.

Declamations and Orations, Monday morning, March 19th:
Eumenean — Orations: Eikel, Fraser, Frierson, and Hamilton. Declamations: Burgess, Burns, Flynn, and Guy.
Philanthropic — Orations: Clark, Grey, W. H. Neal, McKeithen. Declamations: Dunlap, Kornegay, Alexander, Spence, R. D. Hall, E. G. Lilly.

WEEKLY MEETINGS

The query for the debate in the Phi Society last Saturday night was: Resolved, "That all students making 90 per
cent or over on daily grades should be excused from final examinations." Those on the affirmative were Currie, Foreman, Foscue,
Davenport, and Reese. Those on the negative were Campbell, Hamilton, and Nisbet.

The affirmative contended that the purpose of a college is to train by systematic labor; that the examination is not
a real test of a man’s ability, and that by exempting those who make over 90 per cent, all of
the students will be stimulated to greater efforts.

The negative said that the value of the examination was too great to be thrown aside, that examinations are of
value to the student in enabling him to co-ordinate all that has been gone over in a term, and that
cramming trained a student to cover a great amount of material in a short time.

In the regular Monday morning meeting of the Phi Society, the following orations were given: Reese, “Advantages of Water Power;"
Henderson, “The New Klondike;" Kipling—Robert W. Service; Weber, “Democracy and the Great War;" Mann, “Divorce;" and R. H. Stone, “The
Little Theater.” G. D. Sample gave a declamation on “Our Nation’s Flag,” and Siske gave “The Home.”

In the Eumenean Society, Saturday night, the debate was very spirited. The speakers were: Affirmative, G. M. Robson, Thomas, Roddey,
and N. S. Richards; negative, Keesler, T. J. Mitchell, Paterson, and Flynn. The debate was won by the negative. On
Monday morning, there were orations and one declamation. Keesler spoke on “Why Men Drink;” F. M. Mitchell, “Above Ninety Per
Cent;” Brown, “Blockades;” Bellingrath, “Peace.” Solomons gave a declamation, “Ole Bull.”

CIVILIAN’S RIFLE CLUB TO BE ORGANIZED

It is proposed to organize a Civilian’s Rifle Club here for the promotion of marksmanship. Dr. J. W. McConnell has
the matter in charge and the necessary papers are being prepared to secure the ordnance from the government. Any citizen
is eligible to membership, the club not being military in any sense, but...organized for target practice. The War Department of
the United States furnishes the Krag-Jorgensen rifle and 120 rounds of ammunition to each member, and additional ammunition may be
purchased at cost. Those who qualify as marksman, sharpshooter, or expert riflemen are issued medals and can compete in the
National matches at Jacksonville, Fla., or Camp Perry, Ohio. In the event of any member making the State team, he
is assured of a good trip in the summer at Government expense. It is the plan of the officials to
make the ordinary civilian familiar with military arms as well as to provide wholesome outdoor recreation.

GOLF NEWS.

Within the next two weeks, if the weather continues good, the Davidson devotees of golf will have their troubles very
pleasantly increased by the completion of a new hole on the local course. The holes formerly designated as Nos. 7
and 8 have been merged into one, thereby making a very difficult but attractive elbow hole. To fill out the
nine holes, usually termed a “round,” it became necessary to construct another link. The new hole will be known as
No. 8 and has a very attractive location. Taking everything into consideration, it is a wise addition to the course.
The links are also being thoroughly worked over. For several weeks past, efforts have been made by local members to
interest the other college golf clubs of the State in an intercollegiate golf tournament. It is the hope of the
promoters to stage this contest sometime this spring in a city centrally located with respect to the several colleges. Two
or three of the college clubs have responded favorably to this suggestion, hence local golfers have something to work for
this spring.

Lieut. Garland Fulton is superintending the placing of the guns on the merchant ships which are being armed in New
York harbor. Lieutenant Fulton is an expert naval engineer and since graduating with honors at the U.S. Naval Academy at
Annapolis, has been at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a younger brother of Prof. M. G. Fulton.

413 Realty Building
Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N. C.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Does All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty

Gilbert & Patterson Agents
Is prepared to show a complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

You are cordially invited to inspect the cleanest shop in North Carolina
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP
MOORESVILLE
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CALL WHITE DRUG CO

SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men
