Vol. IV. Practical and Stirring Commencement Sermons

Dr. Neal L. Anderson Preaches the Baccalaureate Sermon. Y. M. C. A. Sermon by Dr. W. L. Lingle.

A collegiate and impressive scene presented itself shortly after 11 o'clock Sunday when twenty members of the large graduating class
marched in cap and gown into the front pews reserved for them in the Presbyterian Church. A large congregation had
gathered to hear the baccalaureate sermon by Dr. Neal L. Anderson, of the class of '85, recently President of Austin
Theological Seminary. In the pulpit also were Dr. C. M. Richards and Rev. A. T. Graham, D.D., of Lexington, Va.

Dr. Anderson spoke very feelingly of the absent members of the Senior class and of the absence of so many
students. In this connection, he spoke of the heavy war clouds which are now lowering over our country as we
enter into the Great War. It was peculiarly touching as he faced less than half of the class—the larger part
having responded to other calls and fields of service and action. His text was Second Kings 6:17: “And Elisha prayed,
and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of
the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about
Elisha.”

As a historical setting, he spoke about Dothan, a little village of Galilee, famous because of the incidents of the
text. From this Biblical picture, he at once drew an analogy to present-day affairs, that of a world oppressed by
the consuming war which threatens all the magnificence of the grandeur which presaged the Twentieth Century civilization. Then with the
vividly pictured, the audience was reminded that God will retort these horrors.

Couched in beautiful language, he pictured the might and power of our Nation. It is literally true that the watches
of the longest winter night cannot veil the light of day that is shining somewhere upon the territory that belongs
to this great country. Then from amidst all this great peril and change, he appealed to the class in showing
them the opportunities which lie before the educated man of vision.

Many and strong are the enemies of civic peacefulness and righteousness. Allied against truth and justice, brotherhood and liberty are
the hordes of forces of materialism, graft, commercialism, and the enshrined goddess of Getting-on. When we see things in their
true perspective, we will find a cure for these maladies—the preventive and cure is a vision of God and His
power. In another strong appeal, he said let us be fully confident that God, though invisible, is above and behind
it all, that His providence is reigning and that in this faith there are three tenets which are irrefutable. First,
God makes no compromise with sin. America’s sins—racial conceit and prejudice, may be used as a chastisement and not as
a saving factor. Second, God has a mission for us—to bless mankind the world over with the/be brought up to
abhor war.

(Continued on page 4)

Twenty of the Class of 1917 Took General Leonard Wood's Advice to Remain at College—The Others Answered the Call of
the Colors.

Monday Has Three Highly Interesting Programs: Concert, Class Day Exercises, Junior Orations Contest and Award of Medals and Distinctions.

CONCERT.

The annual Commencement Concert was given by the Orchestra and Glee Club last Monday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. Although many
of the members had already left, yet the remainder rendered a most delightful and entertaining program. The quartet, composed of
J. C. Fowle, K. P. Coachman, E. P. Childs, and A. T. Cashion, was perhaps enjoyed the most, although all
the selections were heartily applauded. They gave several selections of rag-time and popular songs that pleased everyone. The whole audience
arose and remained standing while the Orchestra played, as the final number, “America,” and “The Star-Spangled Banner.”

CLASS DAY EXERCISES.

The Class Day Exercises were held in Shearer Hall, Monday evening at 5 p.m. It had been planned to hold
them on the campus, but the high wind and the dust were so disagreeable it was thought best to hold
them inside. Andrew Brown delivered the salutatory address, after which R. C. Jenkins gave an account of the history of
the class of 1917 very wittily and briefly. W. H. Neal was to have presented the class gift, a hundred
and ten foot steel flag pole, but on account of an unavoidable accident, the pole was badly broken, and it
was not considered worthwhile to present it yet. P. B. Price, the class poet, next spoke, and was followed by
R. H. Ratchford, who gave the class oration, in which he urged the class of ‘17 to go into theworld
as men, and to do a man’s job. D. I. McKeithen, president of the Senior class, presented the class book
to the president of the Junior class, and made a few prophecies as to the honors the boys of '17
would be given. L. H. Fikel closed the program for the evening with the valedictory address.

JUNIOR ORATORS’ CONTEST.

Monday evening at 8:30 the Junior Oratorical Contest between the literary societies was held in Shearer Hall. After the music
and invocation, the six Juniors, three from the Eumenean and three from the Philanthropic Societies, delivered their orations before a
splendid audience. First, G. C. Bellingrath (Eu.) spoke on “The Common Sense of Peace,” arguing that the young should. L.
A. Chambliss (Eu.) then made a startling and interesting speech, showing that the primal instinct of the animal is love.
W. C. Cumming (Phi.) spoke on the “Renaissance of Asia.” Fowle (Phi.) made a most stirring appeal for “The Negro,”
putting forward Christianity as a remedy for the existing conditions. W. G. Humphrey (Eu.) put forward strong arguments in his
“Defense of the Classics.” The last speaker of the evening, F. Weber (Phi.), made an address on “The New Era,”
describing how this war could not but bring good to the world. Dr. Martin presided and made a short speech,
showing what Davidson was doing for her country in giving up her sons to fight for her. The medal was
awarded to J. Fowle.

The presentation of prizes and trophies followed the Junior Oratorical Contest Monday evening. The following medals were awarded:

Declaimer’s Medals — Philanthropic, R. D. Hall, Belmont, N. C.; Eumenean, A. S. Potts, Little Rock, Ark.
Debater’s Medals (Freshman-Sophomore) — Philanthropic, W. M. Currie, Carthage, N. C.; Eumenean, A. S. Potts, Little Rock, Ark.
Junior-Senior Debater’s Medals — Philanthropic, W. C. Cumming, Wilmington, N. C.; Eumenean, R. W. Cousar, Bishopville, S. C.
Essayist's Medals — Philanthropic, Hugh Hamilton, High Point, N. C.; Eumenean, F. H. Hamilton, Atlanta, Ga.
Fiction Medal — William Love, Columbus, Miss.
Debater’s Emblems — G. C. Bellingrath, Decatur, Ga.; W. H. Neal, Charlotte, N. C.; R. H. Ratchford, Gastonia, N. C.;
J. A. Thames, Winston-Salem, N. C.

The Junior-Senior Debating Cup was awarded this year to the Philanthropic Society. The medal awarded to the Freshman making the
highest grade during the year went to D. M. Chalmers, of Charlotte, N. C. This is the first year that
this medal has been awarded. A loyal alumnus, who wishes his name kept secret, announced on Davidson College Day last
fall that he would institute the custom. It stands as a reward for faithful work.

Commencement Comes to Close on Tuesday

Senior Orations, Presenting of Diplomas, Honorary Degrees.

The Senior Oratorical Contest between the literary societies was held in Shearer Hall, Tuesday morning. Four men were chosen at
Senior Speaking, two from each society, to compete in this final contest. The medal was awarded to W. H. Neal,
who made a strong speech on “The International Mind,” showing how the individual, the national, and the international mind should
be trained up together in somewhat the same way before a lasting peace may be secured. E. H. Hamilton, speaking
on “The Two Wars,” made a strong appeal for missions, describing the ignorance and darkness in which the heathen of
Africa, Asia, and South America are plunged, and pointing out that we should rise up to our responsibility and opportunity.
L. H. Fikel gave an address on “Preparedness for Peace,” showing that the American must be educated in a way
that war will not be desired. C. F. Rankin was at Fort Oglethorpe and could not deliver his speech.

After the usual formal ceremonies, the degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred upon the following men, the candidates being
presented by Professor Currie:

Andrew Brown, Ripley, Miss.
John Watkins Bullock, Bullock, N. C.
Herman Archibald Campbell, Aberdeen, N. C.
Raymond Hugh Eikel, Fort White, Fla.
Augustus Rochester Craig, Pendleton, S. C.
Leonard Evelyn Harrison Hamilton, Atlanta, Ga.
John Kemp Hobson, Waterford, Va.
Robert Earl Hughes, Cedar Grove, N. C.
Walter Alexander Johnson, Davidson, N. C.
Samuel Reeves Keesler, Jr., Greenwood, Miss.
John Walter Mann, Mebane, N. C.
James William Miller, Sherrill’s Ford, N. C.
Francis Marion Mitchell, Jr., Edisto Island, S. C.
Dan Ingram McKeithen, Aberdeen, N. C.
William Henry Neal, Charlotte, N. C.
Philip Barbour Price, Nanking, China.
Carl Emmet Rankin, Gibsonville, N. C.
Henry Raymond Ratchford, Gastonia, N. C.
Guy Walker, Andrews, N. C.
Theron Long White, Danielsville, Ga.

The degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred upon the following men, the candidates being presented by Dr. J. W.
McConnell:

Avery Ted Cashion, Davidson, N. C.
Thomas Augustus Finley, North Wilkesboro, N. C.
Samuel Caldwell Harris, Albemarle, N. C.

(Continued on page 2)

Every Fellow Bring A Freshman In September
