Vol. V. No. 10

Davidson Is Victorious Over Auburn
Coach Fetzer’s Plucky Team Downs Plainsmen By Score of 21 to 7.

AUBURN. D.C.
Average length of kickoffs... . . 50 48
Average runbacks of kicks .... 15 19
Average length of punts. ...... 50 47
Average runback of punts... .. 3 28
First downs made ........... 11 10
Forward passes completed .... 9 9
Forward passes incompleted .. 1 8
Ground gained on passes ..... 172 0
Ground gained on line bucks .. 92 33
Ground gained on end runs ... 158 58
Penalties inflicted ........... 5 20
Ground lost on rushes ....... 4 16
Ground lost on fumbles ....... 20 24

Although some hundred Auburn students journeyed with their team to Atlanta to see Auburn beat up D.C., history shows that the whole student body and their faculty were needed. Coach Fetzer took only twenty-two men, but they proved sufficient to take Auburn's measure for a made-to-order licking 21-7. For a war-time general of a war-time eleven, Spann proved a regular von Hindenburg. Auburn’s line, some twenty pounds per man heavier than Davidson’s, was hard to pierce, but Spann’s aerial attack à la Zeppelin, his submarine burrowing through the Plainsmen’s line, and the cavalry charges like those of war-horses “Burns and Flowers, incorporated,” were too much for Auburn. For Auburn, Ducote was the particular star; most of her gains may be charged up to him. The workings of Spann, King, Burns, and Flowers on the offensive, and Shaw, Grey, Elliot, and Crouch Brothers on the defensive, were mainly responsible for Davidson's victory. Grey's punting and the running back of Flowers gave Davidson about 20 yards on each exchange of punts. A fumble by Donohue, recovered by King, gave Davidson her second touchdown. When the whistle blew ending the game, Auburn bade the Southern championship a fond farewell.

The game by play:

FIRST QUARTER
Davidson's ball—Grey kicked off 45 yards to Donahue, who returned 12 yards. Auburn’s ball on her own 26-yard line—Ducote went over right tackle for 2 yards, going out of bounds. Revington hit right guard for 3 yards. Ducote was stopped with no gain over right tackle. Ducote punted 55 yards to Spann, who ran the ball back 25 yards.

Davidson's ball on her own 44-yard line—Grey annexed 2 yards on a wide end run. Burns failed to gain over left tackle, running out of bounds. Spann got a yard around right end. Flowers kicked 53 yards to Auburn's 1-yard line, the ball falling dead. Auburn's ball on her own 1-yard line—Ducote dropped behind his own goal and punted 38 yards out of bounds.

Davidson's ball on Auburn's 48-yard line—Gibson downed Flowers for a 3-yard loss in an attempt to circle right end. A forward pass, Spann to Shaw, was unsuccessful. Flowers punted 30 yards, the ball falling dead. Auburn's ball on her own 20-yard line—Ducote advanced the ball 3 yards through right guard. Donahue was thrown for a 3-yard loss around right end. Ducote punted 55 yards to Flowers, who returned 7 yards.

Davidson’s ball on her own 31-yard line—Burns went 3 yards over left tackle. Flowers broke loose for a 20-yard gain around right end. G. Crouch lost 3 yards trying to go around left end. An attempted forward pass, Spann to Flowers, failed. Flowers made 6 yards around right end. Robinson intercepted a forward pass on his own 35-yard line and gained 3 yards.

Auburn's ball on her own 38-yard line—Ducote shot around right end for a 9-yard gain. Robinson failed to gain through the center of the line. Revington got 1 yard and first down over left guard, putting the ball in the center of the field. Revington gained another yard over left tackle. Donahue failed to gain around right end. Ducote took the ball 13 yards around left end. Robinson failed to gain over left tackle, going out of bounds. Ducote gained 2 yards over right guard. Donahue was thrown.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

For a 5-yard loss, Ducote attempted a place kick from the 49-yard line, but the ball went wide. Davidson's ball on her own 20-yard line—Greer failed to gain around right end. Flowers circled left end for a gain of 20 yards before he was forced out of bounds. A forward pass, Spann to King, netted Davidson 27 yards. Spann gained 8 yards over left tackle. A short pass, Spann to Flowers, gained 1 yard. A forward pass was incomplete. The first quarter ended here. Score: Davidson, 0; Auburn, 0. (Continued on page 2)

Davidson in Greensboro

Wake Forest in Greensboro the 17th. Wake Forest has had an unusually good season. Losing to V.P.I. & E. and Maryland State, she won from Guilford and lost to Furman by the narrow margin of a goal from touchdown. The strong Maryland Aggies were unable to stop the Baptist’s rush and were scored on twice, though managing to win out in the last quarter. The game with Wake Forest Saturday, even with the odds favoring Davidson, should be a fight worth seeing. Davidson's line-up will probably be the same as that in the Auburn game. Davidson will be out for blood, so watch out, Baptists! Wake Forest’s team will probably line-up as follows: Bowers, left end; Gary, left tackle; Williams, left guard; Blankenship, center; Croon, right guard; Savage, right tackle; Feezer, right end; Pace, A., quarterback; Rabenhorst, left halfback; Pace, J., right halfback; Blanchard, fullback.

Davidson plays "OUR CASE AGAINST GERMANY" IS IN GREAT DEMAND

Dr. J. M. McConnell addressed a body of soldiers at Camp Greene, Charlotte, on last Monday evening. His address was the same that he gave on the Hill several weeks ago, "Why America Entered the War." Dr. McConnell also gave this lecture Sunday afternoon at Caldwell School House, and he has an invitation, which he will probably fill, to give it at Huntersville. Dr. Martin also addressed a body of soldiers at Camp Greene.

Junior Class Team Wins Both Games

Lively Scrap Expected with Hardly Only Team Which Has Perfect Record Thus Far.

The class basketball season opened Monday (5th) with a fast and clean game between the Juniors and Sophs, the Juniors winning 22-17. Potts and Hall were the stars of the game.

JUNIORS. POSITION. SOPHS.
Potts (Capt) (5) Hines (3) Center
Alexander (3) W. M.
Hall (2) L. G. McCaskill (0)
Brinkley (0) Guards
Davenport (2) Chalmers (Capt) (1)
W. M. Woods Craig (1)
Maddrey for Woods. Substitutions; Referee, Hengeveld. Foul goals: Potts (2), Hall (2), Chalmers (1). Final score: Juniors, 22; Sophs, 17.

The Freshmen played the Seniors off their feet Tuesday and won handily 31-19. The work of Cox and Schneck was good, while Hawkins did most of the work for the Seniors.

POSITION. FRESH. SENIORS.
Cox (Capt) (7) Center
McDonald (4)
Collins (3)
McCachen (2)
Hawkins (3) L. M.
Currie (0) Forwards
Schneck (1) J. B.
Woods (1) W. W. Carter (1)
Substitutions: Bellingrath for Currie; Williamson for Bellingrath. Foul goals: Hawkins (4), Cox (2), McCachen (1). Referee, Potts. Final score: Fresh, 41; Seniors, 19.

Staging a comeback after their defeat by the Juniors, the Sophs victimized the Seniors to the extent of 35-14. Hawkins, Hall, and Chalmers were the mainstays of their team.

SOPHS. POSITION. SENIORS.
W. M. Hall (5) McDonald (2)

(Continued on page 6)

Examination Schedule

Junior SENIOR
Monday French German Appl. Math. 2 English Economics Greek
Tuesday French Phil. Greek German Latin
Wednesday Chem. English Biology 2 Chem. 4 12 Appl. Math. Law
Thursday Latin Latin Geology 13 Chemistry History
Friday Ch. History 14 Spanish
Saturday Physics Physics Astronomy 15 Physics Physics
Monday 17 Bible Chemistry History 2
Tuesday French Pub. Speaking Chem. 5-1 German French English
18 German Greek
Wednesday Math. Math. Bible Education 1 OL Math.
Thursday History Chem. 6 Greek Pal. N. C.