2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD
J. M. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. M. Lilly......... Managing Editor
J. B. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. M. Thames......... Alumni Editor
W. W. Currie......... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF
J. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

MANAGEMENT
J. M. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
J. M. Williamson...... Circulation Manager
Assistant Managers

REPORTERS’ STAFF
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of ’19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: J. E. Sanders, J. M. Gaston, Jr., A. Mitchell, J. M. Walton, L. G.
Calhoun, W. P. Cumming, and W. H. Harrell.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

We are thankful for Thanksgiving.
On to Wearn Field.
You don’t hear “He Didn’t Raise My Boy to be a Soldier.”
Show Tomorrow! Fellows! pep your Phat nervous, pale, shaky Senior.
Wonder if Lawyer Pou can't really succeed in cutting his own throat. He didn’t cut Col. S. S. McClure’s.

A CROOK IN THE TIGER'S TAIL.
For the mental basket, we have found something. Our contemporary, the editor of The Tiger—the Clemson College paper, has this
to say about the game tomorrow: “Yes, I mean exactly what I say, we are going to beat them, and
it is for you to say how much.” We do not presume to be so downright dogmatic, but from all
indications “Fetzerism” will wear the laurels tomorrow as it has done in the last five contests. Such dogmatism and assurance
of which our brother is guilty, we either burn in a grate in Chambers or send it to the Power
House as a deserved pabulum for producing steam.

THANKSGIVING.
We, as men of Davidson, are grateful to God for all those things which men in common enjoy. But as
students of the college, we should offer thanks to the Supreme One for the things peculiar to us. A complete
catalog of these is probably not obtainable. Certainly, we are grateful for the vigorous and wise personality directing our football
squad. For the team itself, today one of the best in the country—we are proud, hence thankful. We are grateful
that so many of our brothers—the alumni—are so intensely patriotic and have willingly offered their lives at the call of
duty and danger. We should be grateful for the loftiness of thought and action. Modern literature. The DAVIDSONIAN, November 28,
1917 “Y” Fund. Another thing that we share, which is not the lot of all college men—every man on our
faculty is a high-tone Christian gentleman, a scholar as well as being interested in Christian education. The home ties are
stronger when we are away—for this, we should be grateful. For the actively Christian men and manifestations of Godliness and
the warmth of fellowship on the campus, we should be deeply grateful. We really do not know what we do
have. Tomorrow we have no classes. Tonight let us dedicate a short while for serious reflection and make a list
of the things which we have received from an Omnipotent Hand. Do this and you will be surprised.

THE ECONOMIC READER.
Dr. Harding, in talking to his class in Greek Six, gave a suggestion which should be adopted by those who
are pursuing a reading course. He advises that one read current papers and magazines to keep up with the current
trend. But that one should not try to read a great deal of modern fiction and literature. Read some, of
course, but the impossible is to scan an appreciable quantity of the output. Read the book reviews, through which you
can familiarize yourself with modern literature. Make a scheme for reading the classics, not particularly Greek and Latin literature, nor
exclusive of translations of them, but for the best of American and English.Classics and translations of the immortals in all
literatures. December 2nd, the New York Times is to issue a review of more than two hundred recent books. If
interested in literature, one should have, or have access to, one of these. This comes with the Sunday edition. The
Times edits a good review. Other accessible periodicals containing excellent current comment are The Nation and The Dial. Dr. Harding’s
suggestion is good and should students of literature adopt this and begin a systemization of their reading, they would wonderfully
increase the results.

THE WOFFORD SQUAD.

Campus opinion is that a cleaner and more gentlemanly squad of men has not visited our college than the Woffordians.
Our squad praises their fairness on the gridiron. And too, it was a good omen when some of them were
inquiring the way to prayer meeting. Wofford men are always welcome to the Hill.

LARGE NUMBER PRESENT AT JOINT MEETING

The Christian Endeavor, Ministerial, and Volunteer Bands held a joint meeting Sunday night, the leader being J. K. Woods. The
regular Christian Endeavor topic, “For what am I grateful,” was used. The leader made a short talk, emphasizing the fact
that gratitude is one of the fundamental virtues. Then all of the things for which men should be grateful, there
being three the leader especially mentioned. First, there are those physical blessings which come every day; second, we should be
thankful for Christian parents and Christian environment, and thirdly, for Christ’s sacrifice for us. Following the leader’s talk, other short
talks were made by Cumming, McClure, Clark, Hollandsworth, Maddrey, and Orgain.

The subjects and leaders for December in the Christian Endeavor Society are given below:
December 2—W. M. Currie, “Self-Control.” 1 Cor. 6:24-27, (Consecration meeting).
December 9—L. M. Thomas, Jr., “Here Am I; Send Me.” (Life-work Recruits). Isa. 6:6-8. (Election of officers).
December 16—C. J. Hollandsworth, “Christ is our Peace.” National Ideals: War or Peace—Which? Isa. 9:6, Eph. 2:14-17.

CIVIC LEAGUE BAZAAR.

The ladies of the Civic League held their annual bazaar in the Civic League Hall last Saturday afternoon between 3
and 6 o'clock. The hall was patriotically decorated with red, white, and blue. There were five booths representing the different
ages of women. Mrs. Jackson and Miss Mammie Withers were in charge of the “Baby” booth; Miss Maude Vincent had
the booth for “Young Ladies;” Mrs. A. Brown the “Bride's” booth; Mrs. Arbuckle the “Housekeeper’s” booth, and Mrs. W. R.
Grey was in charge of the “Grandmothers” booth. At the bride’s booth, little Sara Jetton and James Withers stood dressed
up as bride and groom. On account of the scarcity of sugar, there was no candy on sale, yet there
was an abundance of canned fruit and fancy work. The ladies realized more than $24 from the afternoon’s sale.

PIEDMONT THEATRE NORTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily First Class Vaudeville YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

For All Kinds of Printing ...See... FREEMAN 25 Chambers

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.

In the Spalding line, you have equipment that is right officially, high grade as to workmanship, and durable in quality.
SPALDING No. M BASKETBALL is guaranteed.

THE COMMISSARY

Germany does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat. Phone orders solicited. White’s Market Phone 25-W Cornelius, N.
C.

Opening A fresh line of Groceries, Candies & Cigars In the Helper Building. Your patronage solicited. J. F. CASHION &
SON

Some Good Bargains Florsheim Shoes At Last Season’s Prices General Line of Merchandise ALMA WHITE BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE CO.

SEAFARERS

FELLOWS! Be Patriotic. Patronize the Home Industry. Give your Shoe Work to the Davidson Shop. Work delivered within two days.
SMITH, Agent Best Material, Best Work, Best Price Davidson, N. C., 1917-18.

Gentlemen:— If you are pleased, tell others. If not, tell me. M. E. Edwards, 22 Chambers Bldg. Davidson Manager for
Dick's Laundry Co.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.
