STATEMENT REGARDING Y. M. C. A. HANDBOOK

The external appearance of the Handbook this year will probably be a disappointment to the upperclassmen, who have been accustomed
to receiving the leather-bound book of former years. But it is the expensive binding of last year’s book (with an
insufficient number of advertisements to balance the cost, which put the Y. M. C. A. $50 in debt) that forces
us to resort to the use of the less expensive leatherette binding this year. It must be acknowledged that this
is a backward step, but we offer the booklet without apology. It is the desire of the Y. M. C.
A. cabinet that such a binding be used. “Economy” is the watchword of the nation now; this binding gives the
Y. M. C. A. an opportunity to get out of debt, and be in a position to return to the
former high-grade binding.

Through the very valuable assistance of H. T. Lilly, editor, and R. H. Stone, assistant manager, in soliciting advertisements, and
the donation of J. L. Fowle, this edition of the Handbook will be practically self-supporting. Even though the management has
not come up to the former standard, the editor has surpassed it. He has, within a very short time, combined
faithful effort with new and original ideas to compile a booklet that will be a credit to the Y. M.
C. A., for I do not believe it has been surpassed in quality.

The book was turned over to the printers October 1, and work on it was begun immediately. They report that
the proof sheets will be ready in a short time, and that the book will be out very soon afterwards.
To further keep down expenses, very few extra copies will be printed this time. These will be for sale at
25 cents per copy; those desiring additional copies will please hand in their names.

O. J. Tries, Jr., Mer.

MRS. T. W. LINGLE NOW IN RALEIGH

Mrs. T. W. Lingle, late of Davidson, has joined the forces in the extension work of the University of North
Carolina. Mrs. Lingle’s work will be principally putting the resources of the University at the service of the women of
the state, chiefly through the correspondence courses, club study, programs, and reading courses. The rapid development of this work during
the past two years has made it necessary to engage further assistance. Mrs. Lingle will also act as adviser to
the women students of the University this year, there being twenty-five women registered in the various courses.

Mrs. Lingle is well qualified for this important work through her training and ability and especially through her wide experience
as president of the Women’s Federation of the State, as secretary of the Social Service Conference and through other forms
of public service.

STENOGRAPHIC COURSES TO BE TAUGHT

I. A. Thames, of the Senior class, will give a course in Pitman shorthand and touch typewriting to any who
desire to take same, and who will hand in their names to him this week. This offer is open to
students of the college and town people alike. The frequency of classes and times of meeting will be arranged to
suit the student. One starting the course now, and taking two or three lessons a week, can complete the course
before commencement, and anyone desiring to go faster can do so. Stenographers are in great demand at present, particularly in
the government service, and a course of this kind if taken up in earnest and pursuedWith diligence, one will command
a good position next summer.—Adv.

The DAVIDSONIAN
October 10, 1917

THE LIBERTY LOAN
By W. G. McAdoo, Secretary of the Treasury

For the purpose of equipping with arms, clothing, and food our gallant soldiers who have been called to the field;
maintaining our Navy and our valiant tars upon the high seas; providing the necessary means to pay the wages of
our soldiers and sailors and, if the bill now pending in Congress passes, the monthly allowances for the support of
their dependent families and to supply them with life insurance; constructing a great fleet of merchant vessels to maintain the
line of communication with our brave troops in France, and to keep our commerce afloat upon the high seas in
defiance of the German Kaiser and his submarines; creating a great fleet of aeroplanes, which will give complete supremacy in
the air to the United States and the brave nations fighting with us against the German military menace; and for
other necessary war purposes, the Congress of the United States has authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to sell to
the American people bonds of the United States bearing four per cent interest, with valuable tax exemptions, and convertible under
certain conditions into other issues of United States bonds that may be authorized by the Congress.

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO
616 Chestnut St
Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina

The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
Philadelphia

The Bank of Davidson
A BIG IMPROVEMENT
(ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON)
Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres.
S. W. Thompson, Csh.
S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
C. A. Potts, Asst. Csh.

Doing more Work and Better Work
INVITE YOU TO CALL ON THEM FOR
Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis Oxfords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.00; Silk Hose, 50c., and many other things that you may need
in the Clothing line. See if we haven't what you want. See our new line of Stock Suits $18 to
$22.50

Throughout this period the General Electric Company has held the great responsibilities and high ideals of leadership.

ACHIEVEMENT
Twenty-five years ago the General Electric Company was founded. Since then, electricity has sent its thrill through the whole structure
of life. Eager to turn wheels, to lift and carry, to banish dark, to gather heat, to hurl voices and
thoughts across space, to give the world new tools for its work—electricity has bent to man’s will. It has set
free the spirit of research. It has given tangible form to invention, in apparatus of infinite precision and gigantic power.
And it has gone forth, co-operating with every industry, to command this unseen force and fetch it far to serve
all people.

By the achievements which this company has already recorded may best be judged the greater ends its future shall attain,
the deeper mysteries it yet shall solve in electrifying more and more of the world’s work.
