2 | The DAVIDSONIAN, November 21, 1917

If you have an idea that all an editor does is sit in his room and correct a little assignment,
you are mistaken. Every one composing the editorial board is going to see, if possible, that a six-page paper is
issued for the remainder of the college year, despite the pessimism and tendencies which tend to down the ideal and
the empty paper.

Here is another thing! The student gets the paper for less than cost. When the Blanket Fee estimates were made,
the pro rata amount for The Davidsonian was seventy-five cents. This reckoning was made for a four-page paper and has
not been changed since it was first initiated. Last spring we went to Dr. Martin and asked for a proportional
raise—the price being advanced to thirds. The catalog had gone to press and there was no advance. Hence, you are
getting the paper at less than it costs to get it out. Should you be called upon to pay the
small difference at the beginning of next term, we hope that every man will respond. This will mean little to
you, but it will look like a million to the financial status of your paper. All of us want a
six-page paper. We have got to have it.

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson

EDITORIAL BOARD
Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly

Managing Editor
E. A. Woods

Assignment Editor
L. M. Thomas, Jr.

The Staff
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr. - Business Manager
W. Williamson - Circulation Manager
T. C. Stone - Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ STAFF
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional Reporters for this issue are J. L. Boulware, Jr., J. C. McCaskill, D. L. Mahood, W. C. Neel, W.
M. McLeod, F. G. Heath, B. W. Romefelt, M. E. Edwards.

We regret that last week we were so crowded for space that the item about our more patriotic members—R. W.
Robinson and M. W. Gibson, of the Junior class—going into military service, was omitted. Robinson volunteered with the Marines and
is stationed on Paris Island, off the coast of South Carolina. Gibson is in Dr. Brenizer’s Hospital Unit. These fellows
are missed. We wish them every good wish in their military life.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL
The alumni of the University of Virginia are vying with the alumni of Harvard and Yale. Twenty per cent of
the former’s graduates or former students are in active military service, while only fifteen per cent of the two latter
institutions have gone into service.

Now is the time to place your order. A fresh line of Groceries, Candies, Cigars, and Invitations. Your patronage solicited.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
216 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
G. J. THIES, Sr., Local Representative

J. F. CASHION & SON
Some Good Bargains
Florsheim Shoes
At Last Season’s Prices

PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville

BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE
General Line of Merchandise
In the Helper BuildingCO. By their mid-terms ye shall know them as to intellectual capacity and diligence.

YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

By their conduct at church ye shall know them as they are.

THE ARMY “Y” FUND.

We are proud that we responded so nobly to the cause of our brother in khaki. This subscription is not
altogether out of well-filled garners. You actually hear students say what they are going to sacrifice. One fellow who loves
apples says that he is going to stop getting a jit’s worth every night after supper. Others are denying themselves
articles of not-needed clothing. And various other instances could be given where men are sacrificing to meet this subscription. A
fine spirit of loyalty and patriotism prevails here, or this amount would never have been realized.

FELLOWS! Be Patriotic. Patronize the Home Industry.

For All Kinds of Printing .. See... FREEMAN 25 Chambers

And they did come! Those long-looked-for uniforms and those handbooks. The Magazine is missing as we go to press.

“There is no greater glory for a man while yet he lives than that which he achieves by hand and
foot,” said Alcinous. In the game of Saturday it must have been mostly of the foot. What kind of meet
will tomorrow bring forth on Sprunt Field?

Give your Shoe Work to the Davidson Shop | Work delivered within two days

“This much have I learned for my com- A.G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.

In the Spalding line you have equipment that is sightly, officially high grade in workmanship, and durable in quality.

SPALDING

It’s never worth while to shirk; — Blow East, Blow West. the world goes

This week contains a number of new best advertisers. Do not lose sight of the fact For the man who
does his work.” that they make your paper. Kindly remember THE DAVIDSONIAN to them in making your purchases.

SMITH, Agent Best Material, Best Work, Best Price

FOUR OR SIX?

Fellows! In a modern word, we are up against it, i.e., THE DAVIDSONIAN. We tell you why. Financially we are
depressed. There is a shortage from the Blanket Fee. The subscriptions from the alumni have not come up to the
standard. When we took the reins from our predecessors we adopted as an ideal and as a policy, which we
thought best for the paper and for the college, the scheme of giving you a six-page paper throughout the year.
The Staff represents the student body. This is your paper and what we do is for you. We believe that
you want a six-page paper. The college needs and wants it.

There is a tendency to reduce this to a four-page paper. The excuse is lack of funds. Your representatives on
the editorial board have gone out of their sphere to get advertising contracts and to get subscriptions. If you have
had

Davidson, N. C., BASKET BALL 1917-18

THE COMMISSARY Gentlemen... If you are pleased, tell others. If not, tell me. —M.

E. Edwards, 22 Chambers Bldg. Davidson Manager for Dick’s Laundry Co.

Does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat White’s Market ‘Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention THE DAVIDSONIAN.

True personality is not in the physical being, but lies in the soul within. —Dr. Gaines, President of Agnes Scott
College.

The Bible is a wonderful Book; there is no book like it. It was written for man and unto man.
—Dr. Gaines, President of Agnes Scott.
