4

MR. JENKINS SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. MEETING

At the regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night, Mr. Jenkins, of the local Methodist Church, presented various phases of the Christian Ministry. The speaker began by saying that all church members are affected by the minister’s call. Some are actually called to preach but the vast majority as church members and officers have to act on calls to others. In developing his subject Mr. Jenkins dealt first with the nature of the call. There are a few abrupt calls, but as a rule the call is a matter of growth. The preparation for the ministry was then duly emphasized. No man can do justice to himself or to others without adequate education. Finally, the speaker dwelt on the joys and sorrows of the ministry. The chief joy of the minister is his seeing Divine work grow in his own hands. The sorrows come when this work seems to fail. Mr. Jenkins ended by saying that these few sorrows are lost in the joys of the work.

DAVIDSON MEN TO JOIN OFFICERS’ CAMP

Quite a number of the Davidson students will enlist for the summer training for officers. Dr. Martin has had many inquiries concerning the training camp and has recently received some application blanks for the same. Quite a number have been filled out by the students. The following of the Alumni have enlisted: Messrs. J. Roy Barron, ‘11, Rock Hill, S. C.; W. J. Roddey, '12, Rock Hill, S. C.; W. P. Thomson, '16, Rock Hill, S. C., and Dr. J. I. Yohaman, Hopeville, Va., the Navy Medical Department.

BRICK LAYING ON GYM WILL BEGIN TODAY

The new Gymnasium is beginning to turn out to be a reality at last—that is, the work has begun on the foundation, whether anything else is done to it or not. The ground is being excavated for the foundations, which are to be of brick. Water has been piped down to the grounds, a shed has been built which contains many barrels of quick lime, large piles of sand and bricks are distributed around at strategic points, and everything together gives one the impression that the gym has at last started to come into existence. If the same progress is made in the future that has been made during the past few days, the gym will be finished by next fall, as it has been promised. The laying of brick will start today.

CONCRETE FOUNDATION OF FLAG POLE FINISHED

Work is going on rapidly on the flag pole. The concrete base foundation has already been finished and the poles are ready to be fastened together. Dr. Martin saw fit to have thirty feet taken off of one section, so that the entire length of the pole will be only one hundred feet when raised. The two sections will be riveted together with iron bands. The final step before raising it will be to give it at least two coatings of white paint. Mr. Hill hopes to be able to raise it by the end of this week or the early part of next week.

RAPID WORK BEING DONE IN ERECTION OF TANK

The four supports of the tank have been erected and work is going forward in the assembling of the tank proper. The material is on hand and every indication points to a rapid completion of the work. To judge from the crowd of onlookers or rather uplookers, one would think that a Zeppelin had just been sighted.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 25, 1917

LENOIR WINS LAST GAME BY VERY CLOSE SCORE

In a game featured by the good mound work of both teams, Davidson lost to Lenoir at Hickory last Tuesday afternoon by the score of 1 to 0. The lone run of the game came in the last of the fifth, when Hengeveld walked two Lenoir batters and hit a third, Beck scoring on an error. “Home-run” McMillan, for Davidson, leaned on one of Plyler’s offerings and sent the ball soaring over a fence back of center field, but fast fielding nailed him at the plate. Davidson lost her chance of tying the game at this time. “Dutch” Hengeveld, backed by almost perfect support, allowed only two bingles. However, Plyler, for Lenoir, was the star of the game, allowing only three extra men to face him in the nine frames.

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson .......000 000 000—0 3 2
Lenoir ..........000 001 00x—1 2 5

Batteries: Hengeveld and Keesler, Plyler and Cline; umpire, Cline; time, 1:50.

C. E. ORATOR TO SPEAK AT CONVENTION IN JUNE

The leader of the Christian Endeavor meeting Sunday night, April 22nd, was L. M. Currie. The subject discussed was “How Lying Undermines Character.” It was shown that lying weak-ens all sides of a man’s character. Announcement was made of a new feature of the North Carolina State Christian Endeavor Convention—the award of a loving cup for the best oration on Christian Endeavor Work. One speaker from each of the college societies at Davidson, Elon, and Guilford will speak in the convention at Greensboro, June 8th to 10th. Anyone who has been a member of a Christian Endeavor Society for six months previous to the convention is eligible for this contest. Entrants must speak for not more than ten minutes and must choose a subject from the following: What Christian Endeavor Stands For; Christian Endeavor Developing the Spiritual Life of Young People; World-wide Christian Endeavor; Christian Endeavor and World-wide Missions; Christian Endeavor and Christian Citizenship. Material bearing on these subjects will be put in the library within the next few days. The date of the preliminary contest to select the Davidson representative will be announced soon. Entrants will hand their names to W. C. Cumming. It is hoped that a large number of the members will justify this innovation by entering the contest with good speeches. Next Sunday, a joint meeting of the Volunteer Ministerial Bands will be held at the usual hour on the campus just west of the library.

STUDENTS BEING TAUGHT MILITARY TACTICS

The men who come out for drill have been divided up into two companies. Those who have been drilling from the beginning and have learned something of the squad movements were put into one company and are being put through the various forms of company drill. The others were placed together in a separate company and are being trained in the execution of the different movements of the soldier and of the squad. The men are being drilled by the student officers under the supervision of Lieutenant Morrison. The finer points of the drill will not be stressed to expert efficiency on account of the lack of time, but a general training in the life of a soldier and his duties is to be given. Efforts have been made to secure guns for the companies, and although no definite word has been received, it is very probable that they will soon be sent here.

DR. LINGLE DELIVERS ENTERTAINING ADDRESSES

Dr. T. W. Lingle spoke last Saturday evening before the Travellers’ Club. His subject was “Highways and Byways of French Provinces.” Dr. Lingle also gave the closing address of the school at Derita, and will give the closing address of the school at Matthews next Sunday.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights, and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N.C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

FORD TRIP to CHARLOTTE
MOORESVILLE - ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO

“If a man can preach a better sermon, write a better book, or make a better mousetrap than his neighbor, though he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door,” provided he advertises in The Davidsonian. TRY IT $3.85 Per Inch for 31 Issues

There’s a Real “College Flavor” To our Suits for Young Men
THEY really deserve your first consideration when you’re ready for your spring suit—they are made by an organization that specializes in the production of young men’s clothes—they’re very “snappy.”
Spring Oxfords
Spring “Fixins”
Spring Hats
Mail orders have our prompt attention
ED. MELLON COMPANY

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

When in Mooresville Visit
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

DAVIDSON STATION HAS BEEN PAINTED

The Southern Railroad has been making additional improvements at the station. The station building has been painted inside and out. The regulation colors were used on the outside, yellow trimmed with black, with the underside of the eaves painted blue. Inside, all of the antiquated signs have been removed, and a fresh coat of gray paint put on all the walls with a coat of varnish on the woodwork of the seats. There is a bulletin board put up that will hold all of the signs in the future, which is much better than putting them around just anywhere a tack would stick in. The public is very grateful for these long-needed improvements.