The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E.G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
F. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas
R. E. McClure
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
I. T. Maddrey
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of ’18--S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of ’19——W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

“Speech is a mirror of the soul: as a man speaks, so is he.”
“Mend thy speech a little lest it mar thy fortune.” —Shakespeare.

PURE SPEECH NEEDED.

There is a world of casualties. Not only are people being thrown into carnage and slaughter but the King’s English
is being horribly, mercilessly, carelessly butchered. This butchering is nothing less than thoughtlessness. This is practiced by many members of
our student body. Occasionally we hear “We didn't have no army when we first started out.” “He don’t need no
notes.” And very often we hear the inevitable “ain't.”

Students of Davidson! This is thoughtlessness, pure and simple, on our parts. Many of us are guilty of this. Few
are immune. Much of this, though incorrect as it is, is sanctioned by the public. We cannot afford to approve
of it by using it. But if we indulge, it will ruin us socially and a continuance of this habit
will throw us into eddies and whirlpools of embarrassments. We must stop now—those of us who are guilty—and reclaim ourselves
and be reinstated into the grace and favor of King Good English.

Of course, we know there is no such word as “ain't.” We know that we should use “doesn’t” instead of
“don’t” in the third person singular. We know to make a negative that “didn’t have no” is wrong. How then
shall we reclaim ourselves? Just do this—Stop! Think! Speak! This is the only way through which it can be done.
In writing, these errors are not made. Why? We think while writing, but not when speaking. Our language, when properly
spoken, is a beautiful and graceful thing. Our speech can be made beautiful and perfect. Our fortunes are being marred
and our vocabulary is being seared with errors and slang. This, we cannot allow. Let us all resolve that purity
of speech shall rule at Davidson. Let us make ourselves a part of this pure speech campaign, and let it
be an individual thing that we stop, think, and speak.

Reports from Eastern and Middle Western colleges show a fall in attendance from ten to fifty per cent.

DAVIDSONIAN, October 3, 1917

ATTENTION!

There is a good deal of misunderstanding and lack of understanding as to the Honor System and as to the
function of the Damage System, its Committee, and the student's relations to them. A Junior has recently been heard to
say that it has never been explained to him. One of the members of the Damage Committee has written an
article, which appears elsewhere in these columns, describing this system. We recommend that you read this article and know this
organization and your relation to it.

Twenty-seven to six shows that Coach Fetzer’s boys can hold Josephus’ Navies. What are we going to do with the
other lines? Watch our team—they are going some. Some might find consolation in the saying of the German.writer, Heine: “History
proves that the majority of men who have accomplished anything great have passed their youth (college days) in seclusion.” This,
as is the German nation and government, is to be discounted and discredited. However, with all respects to Rumple, we
hope there is consolation, for some are sore about an editorial appearing in the last issue. The Press Club met
with admirable success. Many students proved themselves loyal to the college. One amusing letter came to a member of this
club from a supposedly high-standing paper. The letter printed below is from a managing editor of a daily newspaper in
one of the best cities in the State:

“Dear Sir: Have your application for job on hand and regret we have no opening for the line of work
you mention. Would be glad, however, to place your name on the list as correspondent for emergency news—murders, big accidents,
and other news of consequence. If the biggest man in your town robs the bank or elopes with the minister’s
wife, shoot it along and we will gladly use it and pay space rates. Davidson is too far away for
local news to be of interest here.”

We cannot appreciate this editor’s position nor comprehend his width and breadth of vision. Neither is it conceivable how a
man in his position says that news from the biggest college under Presbyterian control is not “news of consequence.”

One Million Dollars—Four Hundred Marks. The German Government has done many things which make our blood boil. But to make
the American people more indignant and bloodthirsty, the Kaiser recently offered four hundred marks for the return—dead or alive—of the
first United States soldier. This is a dastardly deed by the modern Mephistopheles. Now the newspapers and other organizations and
citizens of Georgia are subscribing one million dollars to be rewarded to the American who will advance the cause of
humanity by taking the Kaiser’s scalp. This is a today-example of Bentham’s maxim—“The greatest good to the greatest number.” Though
if we agree entirely that the cause of civilization would be advanced, we cannot become shot through with Epicureanism. The
people of Georgia are carrying this too far. Should he come to their state, they would not agree with Achilles,
who, sulking, said: “Oh! but the life of man is not a subject for raiding or barter. No, nor returneth
again after leaping the fence of the body.” But when this money is rewarded, probably the world can come to
terms with some sound, rational man.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats. Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG Co.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
THE FLORIST, Inc.
8 N. TRYON ST.
SCHOLTZ
PHONES 441-2
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.
