The DAVIDSONIAN May 9, 1917

Alumni Notes

At 11 a.m., May 13, the following Davidson men will graduate from Columbia Seminary: P. W. DuBose, '13; N. M.
McInnis, '13, and R. M. Phillips, '13.

Fisher, '11, is cashier of the City National Bank of Morristown, Tenn.

J. T. Gillespie, ex-'18, will go into one of the military training camps.

From correspondence with J. B. Mallard, ex-'18, now of Washington and Lee, it is learned that he hopes to enter
Oglethorpe.

J. B. White, '10, graduates from Hopkins this year.

From the Harvard Medical Department, J. T. Wearn, '13, and D. H. Nisbet, '13, will graduate this spring.

N. T. Wagner, '05, of Dallas, Tex., has been elected the manager of Sweet, Causey, Foster & Co., which has
headquarters in Denver, Col. He was on the Hill Monday on the way to his former home in Asheville.

W. H. Oates, ex-'15, has located in the Commercial Bank building, in Charlotte, for the practice of law.

N. B. Dulin, '14, of Bowling Green, S.C., was recently married to a young lady living near Charlotte.

Mrs. Shannon (Miss Susan Summers, '09), whose home is now in Gulfport, Miss., was in town for a few hours
last week.

Miss Louise Manning is instructor in history at Statesville Female College (Mitchell College).

Capt. F. L. Blythe, '07, a former member of the faculty of Davidson, who is a member of the faculty
as well as coach and athletic director of Bailey Military Institute, was on the campus Saturday with his baseball team.

Rev. C. W. Maxwell, '86, of Boston, Va., was recently on the Hill arranging for a reunion of the Maxwell
Clan, which is to take place a few days after Commencement. This clan is the founder of the Maxwell Memorial
Loan Fund. Four of these brothers have been students here. His father, who died several years ago at Davidson, was
of the class of '60.

Friends have received the announcement of the marriage of J. P. Marsh, '14, to Miss Hamilton, of Unionville, N.C.

Miss Pearl Johnson is teaching school in Jonesboro, Ga.

W. P. Thomson, '16, and W. M. Cosby, ex-'15, will be members of the Davidson Troop enlisted at Oglethorpe. J.
Roy Barron, '11, a prominent member of the Gryphon, and Joe Roddey, '14, will also be in training at Oglethorpe.
These latter stood their examination at Governor's Island, New York.

L. R. Scott, '08, pastor of the Trinity Presbyterian Church, of Montgomery, Ala., will preach the baccalaureate sermon at Mitchell
College.

Dr. S. Mitchner, '09, of Edenton, N.C., spent a short time on the campus last week on his return from
a meeting of the North Carolina Medical Association, held at Asheville.

S. J. Milligan, '10, is a rising young attorney of Greenville, Tenn.

Albert Susong, '12, of Greenville, Tenn., is doing a splendid banking business in that city.

W. B. Taylor, Jr., '08, of Winston-Salem, was mingling with friends and relatives on the campus last week.

R. S. Haltiwanger, '14, now professor of Mathematics in Concord City Schools, will be in the faculty of the Montreat
Summer School.

Recently the portrait of Dr. Blake has been received by the Library. This work was done by Miss Helen Bird,
of Greenwood, S.C. Miss Bird is a sister of G. A. Bird, Jr., '20. Other pictures which have been promised
are those of Presidents L. McKinnon and H. L. Smith, and of Presidents of the Board of Trustees Rev. J.
Doll and Dr. W. L. Lingle.

Dr. Edward Mack, '87, preached the baccalaureate sermon at North Carolina State College, formerly A. & M.

Dr. R. H. Crawford, '10, who has been practicing medicine in Rock Hill, will soon go to France with a
Red Cross Corps. O. S. Crawford, '12, is practicing law in his home town, Rock Hill, S.C. D. C. Crawford,
ex-'17, is with the Equitable Life Insurance Co., and is located in a Rock Hill office.

Dr. Alphonso Smith, '84, is now Poe Professor of English at the University of Virginia. During the Summer School session
he will deliver some special lectures on literary themes. At the beginning of next fall, he goes to the chair
of English at Annapolis. He has recently written a biography of O. Henry. Of this work, Dr. Archibald Henderson says
that it has "a group of distinctive notable features. A work of rare charm and moving interest, a happy mean
between the biographical and the critical study."

Recently other books by members of the Alumni have been received. Dr. H. E. Shepherd, '62, is the author of
"Narrative of Prison Life." "The Social Teachings of Christ Jesus" was written by Dr. W. B. Jennings, '80. Dr. T.
C. Whaling, '77, President of Columbia Seminary, is the author of "Jesus and Christian Doctrine." Woodrow Wilson, '77, has published
"On Being Human."

J. W. Pratt, '08, is now Professor of English at Annapolis.

The faculty is the recipient of a unique little volume, "Sketches of Graduating Class of Davidson College 1872-76." This class
held a reunion last Commencement and this volume is the product. Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., and Hon. W. F.
Carter were appointed "to secure, edit and print sketches of all members of the class, both living and deceased." This
volume also contains the minutes of their reunion. Also included is the literary society address by their member—Hon. W. F.
Carter, of Mt. Airy, N.C. Of a class of seventeen, five are now deceased. This handsome little volume, bound in
red flexible leather, is a credit to the class. Probably other classes will follow the precedent this class has set.

In the Commencement exercises at Union Seminary, Davidson men seem to be playing the leading role. H. S. Turner, '13,
made the highest grade in his class and has been awarded the Hoge Fellowship.for 1917-18. Those graduating who are from
Davidson are: A. S. Anderson, ’14, who probably will be a chaplain in the Navy; R. S. Arrowood, '13, goes
to Louisa, Va.; Hal. R. Boswell, '12, locates in Newport News, Va.; D. T. Caldwell, ‘14, expects to do post-graduate
work at Princeton; J. S. Cook, ex-'15, goes to Herman, W. Va.; E. S. Currie, '12, Raleigh, N.C.; N. N.
Fleming, ‘12, Tarboro, N.C.; W. C. Jamison, '13, Belle Haven, Va.; R. C. Long, '13, will take special work at
the University of Chicago; R. W. Miles, Jr. ex-'11, goes to Milford, Va.; J. T. Pharr, ’12, goes to West
Texas Presbytery, Tex.; J. R. Phipps, ‘03, Elizabethtown, N.C.; Z. V. Roberson, ‘14, Rockingham, N.C.; Locke White, ‘13, Maysville, Ky.;
C. D. Whiteley, '14, undecided; G. L. Whiteley, '12, undecided; K. L. Whittington, ex-'15, will locate at Brandon, Tex. Twenty-nine
are in the graduating class.

Rev. Harper Brady, ‘12, of Statesville, expects to sail for Japan during the summer.

R. M. Torrence, ex-'15, is at present engaged in civil engineering near Commerce, Ga.

MODEL CONSTITUTION OF ALUMNI CHAPTER

The following constitution, drawn up by the Davidson College Alumni Association of Greenville, S.C., is printed in the hope that
it will arouse interest in the formation of such chapters and that it will serve as a guide:

CONSTITUTION

Article 1. The name of this Association shall be the “Davidson College Alumni Association of ______.”

Article 2. The object of the association shall be to provide for the organization of the alumni of Davidson College
in ______ to the end that they may be brought more intimately in touch with the affairs of the College
and that the institution may thereby have the benefit of the united interest and efforts of her Alumni.

Article 3. Any Alumnus or Matriculate of Davidson College who is a resident of ______ County, shall be eligible for
membership in the association, and may become a member upon the payment of the annual dues of two ($2.00) dollars.

Article 4. Section 1. The officers of the association shall be a President, First, Second and Third Vice-Presidents, Recording Secretary,
Corresponding Secretary, Treasurer, Executive Committee, and Chairmen of the Entertainment, Athletic, Scholarship, Finance and Publicity, and Membership Committees.

Sec. 2. The Executive Committee shall be composed of the President, Recording Secretary, Treasurer, and the Chairmen of the above-named
committees.

Article 5. The President shall preside at all meetings, shall be ex-officio Chairman of the Executive Committee, and shall perform
all the duties usually belonging to this office.

Article 6. The respective Vice-Presidents, in the absence or disability of the President, shall preside and exercise all the powers
and perform all the duties pertaining to the office of President.

Article 7. Section 1. The Recording Secretary shall keep accurate minutes and records of all proceedings, give all members due
notice of time and place of meetings of the association, and perform all duties usually assigned to this office.

Sec. 2. The Corresponding Secretary shall attend to all the official correspondence of the association and perform all the duties
generally incident to this office.

Sec. 3. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account, take charge of, collect and disburse all money due or belonging
to the association.

Article 8. The duties of the Executive Committee shall be to assist and advise with the officers of the association
concerning their respective duties, to outline and direct the activities of the association between meetings, and to see that the
objects and aims of the association are carried out.

Article 9. There shall be a regular annual meeting held the first week in January at which time the officers
for the year shall be elected. The exact date of this meeting shall be determined by the Executive Committee. A
quorum shall consist of ten members of the association.

Article 10. This Constitution may be amended at any annual meeting, and at any call meeting, notice of which shall
have been given at least three days in advance thereof by the Recording Secretary stating the object thereof.

Article 11. The By-Laws of the association may be changed or modified by the Executive Committee at any time.

BY-LAWS

Section 1. The annual dues of the association shall be two ($2.00) dollars, payable on the first day of January
of each year.

Sec. 2. The order of business at the meetings of the association and of the Executive Committee shall be as
follows:
1. Reading of Minutes of Last Meeting.
2. Reports of Officers.
3. Report of Executive Committee.
4. Reports of Special Committees.
5. Unfinished Business.
6. New Business.
7. For the Good of the Order.

Sec. 3. The parliamentary rules as laid down in “Robert's Rules of Order” shall govern the proceedings of the association
and of the Executive Committee.

Sec. 4. All elections shall be by ballot.

Sec. 5. The Recording Secretary shall make and keep a record of all the matriculates of Davidson College residing in
the County of ______, which shall be revised by December 31st of each year.

Sec. 6. The Recording Secretary shall mail due notices to all the members on the roll of the association three
days before any meeting.

PROFESSOR FULTON COMPLETES NEW BOOK

Prof. M. G. Fulton has completed the editorial work on a new and enlarged edition of the poems of Irvin
Russell. This consists of a number of hitherto uncollected and unpublished selections. These poems were obtained chiefly through the kindness
of his sister, Miss Mary Russell, of Los Angeles, Cal. An interesting discovery has recently been made of a series
of nearly seventy letters, covering the periods from the summer of 1875 to the end of 1878, which he wrote
to a young lady in Indiana. These contain a great deal of valuable information about his life and literary schemes
as well as interesting accounts of life in Southern Mississippi and of politics in that section during Reconstruction times. These
letters will render possible a much fuller biographical sketch of Irvin Russell, who, although little known and appreciated in the
South, is one of her most distinctive and characteristic writers.

Mrs. Wright, of Winston-Salem, is visiting Mrs. McMillan.
