The DAVIDSONIAN, May 9, 1917

REPORTERS’ STAFF

CLASS OF '18
J. B. Woods, D. M. Orgain

CLASS OF '19
W. T. Johnson, Jr., W. T. Dunlap, Jr.

CLASS OF ’20
L. G. Calhoun, D. M. Chalmers, T. E. Guy, Wm. Love, D. W. Roberts, G. A. Byrd, Jr.

FACULTY RULE FOR THOSE GOING TO FARMS

Students with sufficient farming experience, or adaptability therefor, on presentation of a written request from parents addressed directly to the college authorities, will be excused from further college work this session, provided they present a written and signed statement that they have secured a place to work during the summer where their labors will effectively increase food stuff, and provided they pledge their word to work faithfully for the three months beginning at once on leaving college. On presentation next fall of a proper certificate to the effect that for three months they have done satisfactory service, college credit will be given for this term’s work on all subjects in which they are now passing to the satisfaction of the professor. Drs. Grey, Lingle, and Arbuckle are appointed a committee to arrange details and are charged with the duty of carrying out the provisions of the faculty’s action.

Below is a list of undergraduates who have left:
J. A. Shaw, M. A. Thompson, W. C. Hodgin, C. M. Hodgin, F. R. Spratt, J. A. Ormand, W. P. Davenport, H. W. Summerville, H. R. Sherrill, C. F. Monroe, T. N. Morton, F. L. Knight, E. N. Booker, W. B. Garrison, W. N. Mebane, W. C. Smith, P. G. Sutton, F. B. Burns, C. Hunter, M. R. Watt, R. P. Richardson, R. R. Clarke, N. V. Morton.

The Senior list is found elsewhere in this issue.

REV. C. F. MYERS GIVES INSPIRING ADDRESS

Last Thursday evening Rev. Charles F. Myers, pastor of the First Church of Greensboro, spoke to the Y. M. C. A. on the subject of “Remaking Marred Men.” He took his text from the 18th chapter of Jeremiah, verses 3 and 4: “Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he was making a work on the wheels. And when the vessel that he made of the clay was marred in the hands of the potter, he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it.”

Aaron Burr gave up God, and for a while he mounted rapidly the steps of fame. He aspired to set up a republic of his own, but the plot was discovered, and he was convicted of treason. He died a few years later on the Continent, a shunned, despised man. Why? He was a marred man because he had given up God, marred by the world, the flesh, and the devil. All sins cripple. One is never the same man afterward, though the change is very gradual, and does not come in a day. The human soul does not realize the change, and compromises here, and makes concessions there, and before it knows it, winter sweeps down on it, the awful winter of sin and despair. All souls, though slightly soiled, are greatly reduced in value. But he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it. God can make us new vessels, but never the same one as before. Let us go back to the source of all being to keep us pure and as unmarred as possible.

STUDENTS AND ALUMNI

I am grateful for the college for your past assistance and crave it in increased measure for the future. We found this year that 10 percent of the student body came to Davidson principally because of the influence of a current student. That is fine. And is it not splendid that 42 percent said they came because of the influence of an alumnus? Money cannot buy such an asset and the college would not sell the loyalty of its sons for any sum. Now the war is on and we must all make sacrifices. Davidson did it in the Civil War, and she...is sending a large number of her young sons out into this war. We shall lose a number from the upper classes, fellows of the age our country is calling to her defense, and they are going willingly. As I write this article I am constantly stopping to tell one and another good-bye. God bless them and keep them. I well know they will be true soldiers and do their duty as Davidson men habitually do. But this means we must have more new men to fill the ranks—good men, too—for we are giving our best to our country. We need your help, students and alumni. Seek out good, well-prepared young men and see that they register for next fall. We will help you in any way we can, you may be sure. Why shall it not be said that considerably more than 10 percent come next fall because of the influence of current students? Make it 20 percent, fellows! And let the Alumni, young and old, increase their percent at least to 60 percent. We are facing the uncertainties of the future unafraid. God has blessed the college and will take care of it, and we depend upon the loyalty of the sons of Davidson without a moment of hesitation. The college will open as usual in the fall with all professors on hand and the work will go on with its accustomed efficiency. So no prospective student need hesitate to enroll and to do so promptly.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery... Drink at our Sanitary Fountain... We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Cordially yours,
W. J. Martin, President.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C.
HOTEL HUFFINE — Greensboro, N.C.
HOTEL YADKIN — Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE — Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL DANIEL — Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND — Danville, Va.

The annual elections of officers of the student body were held last Monday morning. According to a recent amendment to the constitution, the officers to be elected shall be recommended by a recommending committee of the Student Council. The officers elected for the coming year were as follows: President, A. P. Saunders; Vice-Presidents, J. W. McAlister and G. H. Rowland; Secretary and Treasurer, J. F. McLerkin.

SOPH CLASS.
The Sophomore class met after the student body elections Monday morning and elected the following men as officers for the coming year: C. W. Worth, President; J. H. Miller, Jr., Vice-President; J. R. Boswell, Secretary.

Get into the Game
Aside from the pleasure of the sport, it is good exercise. Play beats all the other forms of exercise that are possible. When you use Spalding Equipment, you are recommended by the Student Council.
J. P. SANDERS, President

MR. SPEAKS SUNDAY NIGHT
Mr. R. O. Alexander, of Charlotte, spoke at the evening service last Sunday in the local Presbyterian Church. He showed the references in Old and New Testament prophecies that had reference to the present world war, the outcome of the war, the high cost of living, and woman suffrage. The talk was very interesting, the attention of the audience being held for the whole length of the service, which lasted an hour and a half.

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines
We cater to special trips for students
L.B. Patterson, College Representative

With the business we feel that we have an advantage over all others. Between Charlotte and Statesville

It's yours for the asking.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
The Commissary
Our catalogue is convincing.