SPRING is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for this Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. Johnson & Potts 2 Rumple “24 Hour Delivery” 9 Brown's Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C. Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest : Quickest : Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S. Potts, Agent 2 Rumple Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2 Rumple A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson The DAVIDSONIAN, April 25, 1917

The Forum

OUR SONG. Some months ago a Davidson College song was promised. To the composer of this “Davidson Song” was offered a Gold Medal tennis racket. Undoubtedly the Blue Pencil Club has long since made its decision as to the lucky person. Undoubtedly the commissary has long since awarded the prize and fulfilled their part of the contract. But where, oh, where is “that song of victory,” that song that “will stir the blood?” Is it so “punk” that it has been consigned to the obscurity of a pigeon hole or trunk tray? Probably it is being groomed and held ready for the opening of the football season. But is football the only game at which Davidson can display any spirit? Is the lack of “pep” at baseball games so decidedly lacking that not a sound can be raised to cheer on our balldom heroes? What about unearthing this Davidson song and giving it a trial? The humming or whistling of it will surely sound as well on the campus as worn-out “Pretty Baby.” At any rate, if we are to use this glorious “unknown” in football this fall, it might not be a bad idea to know it. If it is really a song full of pep and fight like the Yale “Bula” or “Washington and Lee Swing,” we will be thankful to the commissary and THE DAVIDSONIAN. And when little Freshie goes home this spring and stands around the piano of his loved one, he won't be ashamed to pull out a copy of this battle hymn and humbly beg her to play over and over again that old song that is going to lead Davidson to victory again—when he comes back as a Sophomore.

RAMESHS V.

DEMOCRACY VS. AUTOCRACY. When puppet kings of petty realms Do vie to wear a golden crown, And clothe themselves in royal robes And drink the potent draught, renown, And try to mold with their weak hands A kingdom made from their own thought And fain would change with but a word The things that time has slowly wrought, They sadly err. Weaklings they are. Brittle clay is thought of man Which slightly yields to foolish kings. Molds itself in the Potter's hand. Let “Wilhelm” pass, a meteor spent; Also his autocratic school. Give true Democracy its place, Let God’s own Voice forever rule.

“BY GEORGE.”

SOME INSIDE INFORMATION. By Prof. A. M. Trawick. Dear Mr. Man: Say, Bo, have you ever been to Blue Ridge Summer School? Carolina, you know, the other side of Asheville, this side of the Ridge Crest just below Brown's Pasture, not far from Spanish Castle. You couldn't miss the way. Take the right-hand road after leaving Black Mountain, and keep on taking the right every time you come to the forks of the road, except the last time, where you take the road straight ahead. You can ride in a Ford if you have 40 cents, but you can walk if you need to. Hounshell always walks. There will be others there. From Old Kaintuck to Mobile Bay, from Virginia Beach to Oxford, Miss., they come, and many of them will walk because on the conference truck if you want. Bob Denny, who has been at Blue Ridge before, left his bundle under Booker Washington's cottage, so you need not wonder why he did not bring anything with him. Hurry up and get to Robert E. Lee Hall before supper. Mr. Wells may not know just how hungry you are, and if you are not prompt Fatty Poteat will get to the table first. Let me tell you now, so you will never forget it, Fatty was never known tobe late at meal time. Another thing you will discover—for yourself, the first supper is the best meal you will have for ten days. Be sure to make the best of it. Hereafter it will be black-strap and baked beans. While you are eating, a very important, youngish-looking man will call upon you to lay down your knife and listen to him. You might just as well put your knife right down, for Doc Weatherford is going to make his first speech. You will hear him many, many times, but he always breaks into this first supper with a speech. He will say: “Men” (and in this form of address he does not really mean to exclude Phil Wrigg and Roy John—Doc is very polite) “Men,” says he, looking out toward W. D., Jr., “I have thought again and again and again how I can make this conference the most tremendously real thing in your lives. I want you to throw yourselves with perfect abandon into every feature of the program—I want you to throw yourselves with perfect abandon into the pool every morning before breakfast.” Here Sam Parker jumps upon the table and proposes three long rays for Doc Weatherford; and the lid is off. The real business of the conference has now begun. The business is divided into three parts: (1) Yelling. Everybody must yell. Yell every time anything is said, yell every time anything is not said. If you cannot yell, sing; if you cannot sing, do like Fitzgerald does—sing bass. Make a noise! Give fifteen rays for Kaiser William, Watt Raine, or Martha Washington! Wake ‘em up! (2) Athletics. This feature of the conference consists in walking over to Ray Legat’s farm for afternoon tea, playing Rook with the girls in Lee Hall, or in attending Dr. Horne’s lecture on sub-conscious epistemology. Some of the bolder spirits go up to Mrs. Flobb’s cottage to kill snakes, and a few listen to Ed Cook tell what he is going to do when he becomes a Bishop. Martha Washington goes to the pool for her annual squeal. (3) Stunt Night. This is the spotlight of conference proceedings; the reason why; the irreducible minimum; the sine qua non of the conference program. On this occasion the faculty, together with Dr. Brown, professor emeritus of Public Speaking, and Will Webb, headmaster of the Department of Wind Jamming, sing the conference melody: “We've been lecturing to the Bone-heads all the live-long day,” and the delegations, including the men from Georgia Tech, join in the antiphonal refrain: “One grasshopper jumped across the other professor's back.” Fatty’s ancestor stands on his head, Doc Poteat, Malcolm Guess repeats that thrilling little poem: “Lips that have touched paint shall never touch mine,” and the lights go out. It is a great occasion. Now, Bo, if there is anything else important about the Blue Ridge Conference, I will say it if you will remind me of it. I may have overlooked a few things like the classroom work, the platform addresses, the life-work appeals, the financial session, the big men and the friendship the conference makes possible, but I have given you the gist of it. Write to me if you think you may be able to go, and I will tell you more about it. Yours for Blue Ridge. THE COUNT.

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES
BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty
Statesville, N.C.

Gilbert & Patterson
Agents
SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50
CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms
LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.