2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. W. Clark, J. F. McClerkin, W. C. Neel, E. A. Turner, L. M. Thomas, O. J. Thies, Jr., W. T. Dunlap, Jr., J. B. Woods, R. T. Liston, J. K. Hobson, G. F. Webber, E. G. Lilly.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

THE STUDENT COUNCIL.

What after all is the real purpose and position of the Student Council in the life and government of the Student Body?

“The Students’ Council shall have jurisdiction to receive, prefer and try any charges against any student for a violation of the provisions of the constitution; they shall have power and it is their duty to investigate rumors injurious to the Student Body or any member thereof, to the end that the good name of the Student Body may be maintained, the transgressors redeemed from the error of their ways, or prevented from further casting reproach upon the good name of the Student Body, or the innocence of the guiltless made manifest.”

Thus reads the constitution, and it is a good summary. Its purpose is threefold: to be a judicial body and try cases of offense and violation of the constitution, to be a legislative body and improve and formulate new laws to suit new conditions, and to be an executive body and enforce the laws and protect the good name of the Student Body.

Theoretically this is a fine scheme, but is it actually a success? When compared with Faculty Ruling it is certainly a success, yet it must be admitted it falls far short of what it might be. And this failure, if we can call it a failure, is due to no weakness in the system, but to a misconception and unfortunate attitude of the students as a whole.

“You had better stop paddling that Freshman. Yonder comes a Student Councilman,” someone was heard to remark not long ago, and it typifies the three main misconceptions of the average student in regard to student government.

First, the Student Council is considered a police system or a detective force, which is on the lookout for transgressors to ship. Yet, according to our honor system, every man should be a policeman, and be just as responsible for the punishment of the one who violates laws or upholds the fair name of the Student Body, as any member of the Student Council.

Second, the Council’s purpose is not only to punish but to correct, not only to expel and suspend but to reform. To the Freshman or Sophomore who through ignorance or environment begins his college career “sowing wild oats,” the Council is not a tyrant but a brotherly adviser, a friendly corrector.

And third, the Student Body must work in harmony with the Student Council, back it up, respect its laws, discountenance those who break them, and insist on and assist in the immediate punishment of the transgressors. Then and only then can it be a success.

The Honor System and Self-government are the best plans ever devised for student government. May they not fail through any misconception or thoughtless opposition of students.

DR. MACK FILLED PULPIT LAST SUNDAY

The local Presbyterian pulpit was filled on last Sunday by Dr. Edward Mack, of Union Theological Seminary, who gave two very interesting and instructive sermons. The text for the morning service was from 1 Cor. 16:33, “Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit ye like men, be strong.” The duty laid upon all professing Christians is to bring about Christ’s kingdom and it is only through efficient service for Him that we can best do our share in the work. The text is a challenge to keep ourselves fit in body, mind and spirit for the service of God, and that one who defiles his body, dissipates his energies, and blackens his heart, is a traitor to God’s cause. Purity of life and thought is therefore the first essential. TheSecond essential is righteousness, which is higher than love itself, for it includes the latter. The crowning example of a lack of this essential, which was given by Dr. Mack, is the present selfish struggle in Europe. The third challenge of the text is love—not the love of a mother for her child or that of the husband for his wife, but the love of humanity and of God and His cause which must stand above and superior to all other loves in the true Christian. The evening sermon was based on the book of Ecclesiastes, which the speaker denominated the Old Testament message to young men, saying at the same time that it was one of the four books of Hebrew philosophy which is based, not on abstract reasoning, but upon experimental results. He then gave an outline of the book in five parts, or cycles of thought: (1) The vanity of wisdom, pleasure and labor, with a plea for the simpler life; (2) The vanity of human justice, ambition and riches, with the call to the fight against selfishness; (3) The vanity of surplus of good things; (4) The call for practical wisdom; (5) A psalm of youth, which concludes with the admonition to follow the commandments and teachings of God for our lives.

CAMPUSSISMS.

E. A. Beatty, '20, has undergone an operation for appendicitis at a hospital in Columbia, S. C. He is progressing nicely and will spend a time at his home in Lancaster, S. C., before returning to Davidson.

D. S. Epps, '19, is confined at his home in Kingstree, S. C., with fever.

It seems that the Mortons are making a run on the Infirmary. Recently T. N. Morton supplanted the Freshman of his name.

Both of the “Red” Smiths are confined in the Infirmary with measles.

At the regular semi-monthly meeting of the Polity Club last night a talk by Professor Currie was enjoyed by all those present. Professor Currie gave a comparison between municipal and international law in their relation to precedents, as contained in the court reports.

Best line of Tennis Goods, Foot

The Hoover & Smith Co.

Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office.

We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer absolutely. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired.

Let us quote you in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
26 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Representative

Just A Little Different

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

Ball Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

FOR THAT FORD TRIP... see R. D. MOONEY

FORM FIT
TALBOT & ARROW form fit COLLARS are curve cut to fit the neck

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
15¢ each

Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS

BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats :: Fruits and Candies :: FANCY GROCERIES

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

The Southern Serves the South
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.

For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Base Ball

THE COMMISSARY
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia