The Davidsonian, April 4, 1917

Literary Societies SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday, April 7th: "Resolved, That a diploma from society should count as a course towards a student's degree."

Phi—Affirmative: Webber, Davis, R. H. Stone, Calhoun, and Smith.
Negative: Peters, F. P. Hall, Siske, Williamson, and Dawkins.

Eu—Affirmative: Potts, Allen, Bachman, J. G. Richards.
Negative: Shields, Solomons, Bellingrath, Boggs.

Monday, April 9th:
Phi—Oration: Campbell.
Declamations: McAllister, L. L. Hamilton, Currie, Foreman, Spratt, Davenport, and W. C. Worth.

Eu—Orations: T. J. Mitchell, Price, Roddey, and Saunders.
Declamations: C. B. Robson, Sullivan, E. A. Woods, and G. M. Robson.

In the Phi Society on last Saturday night the subject for discussion was: "Resolved, That Ireland should have Home Rule."
The affirmative was upheld by Nesbit, Bullock, C. W. Worth, Foscue, and T. C. Stone, while the negative was represented
by J. K. Fleming, McDonald, Roberts, and Boney. The debate as a whole was not up to the standard, due
to lack of preparation and the Lyceum attraction, which immediately followed the meeting.

On Monday morning Reese gave an oration on "Moving Pictures as an Aid in the School House;" Webber on "Spartacus
to the Alligators;" Mann on "Capital Punishment;" Finley on "Reforms Needed in the Examination System," and R. H. Stone on
"State Characteristics." Declamations were given by Hart and Lacy.

In the Eumenean Society Saturday night the subject of "Home Rule for Ireland" was discussed. The affirmative was upheld by
Liston, Patterson, Jenkins, and Flinn. The negative was defended by Morton, McCloy, Frierson, and Brown. The affirmative based their argument
on the desire of Ireland for Home Rule, and contended this would be the only way to bring peace to
the unsettled island. The negative contended that it would be unjust to Ulster, and that it would disturb England's political
relations. The decision was in favor of the negative.

Monday morning the following officers were elected for the first term next year: President, R. W. Cousar; Vice-President, Emery Flinn;
Secretary, William Love; Treasurer, J. B. Woods; Reviewer, G. C. Bellingrath; Debating Council, A. S. Potts and E. A. Woods.

DAVIDSON TO HAVE CLEAN-UP DAY TUESDAY

Tuesday, April 10th, has been designated as spring cleaning day by the Town Council. All refuse that cannot be burned,
if placed in boxes or barrels at the edge of the street, will be carried away without charge. It is
earnestly hoped that back yards, barn yards, outhouses, and alleys will be gone over thoroughly on Saturday and Monday. Drain
all marshy places and see if the guttering retains any water. Mosquitoes breed in stagnant water and in stagnant water
only. No standing water, no mosquitoes. If stables are kept clean there will be no flies and no typhoid in
Davidson. Our death rate in 1914 was 23 to 1,200 people. In 1916 it was 12, with some increase in
population. Efforts to have more sanitary premises have paid. More effort will pay more. Cut weeds. Plant flowers. Remove unsightly
fences. Lime is cheap—and a purifier.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS ELON IN EXCITING GAME

Davidson defeated Elon at Elon Monday by a score of 9-7. The game was a little loosely played, but exciting.
The playing field was in bad condition and slowed up the playing considerably. The feature of the game was Zeb
McMillan's home run over the right field fence with the bases clogged. Withers, for Davidson, pitched nice ball and was
strong in the pinches.

Line-up:
ELON
AB R H PO A E
Maxwell, 2b ..... 5 2 1 2 3 1
Purcell, c ....... 3 0 1 1 1 1
Seawell, ss ...... 4 1 2 0 3 0
Fogleman, lf ..... 5 1 1 1 0 0
Nance, 3b ....... 4 1 2 1 0 1
Ragsdale, rf ..... 4 2 1 0 0 0
Banks, 1b ....... 4 0 1 9 2 2
Simpson, cf ...... 4 0 1 0 0 0
Stiteler, p ....... 4 0 0 2 1 0

DAVIDSON
AB R H PO A E
Johnson, 2b ...... 4 2 1 5 2 1
Wood, ss ........ 5 1 1 2 3 1
Black, 3b ........ 4 2 2 2 2 1
McMillan, cf ..... 4 2 2 2 0 0
Saunders, 1b ..... 5 1 1 5 0 0
McKinnon, rf ..... 5 0 1 1 0 0
Pharr, lf ......... 5 0 0 2 1 0
Keesler, c ........ 2 1 0 7 1 0
Withers, p ....... 4 0 1 8 7 1

Summary—Home run: McMillan; three-base hits: Seawell, Simpson; two-base hits: Ragsdale, Johnston; stolen bases: Black, Fogleman, Ragsdale, McKinnon; struck out: Stiteler
9, Withers 6; base on balls: Stiteler 5, Withers 0; time: 1:55; umpire: Henderson.

BOB BURDETTE’S ADVICE.

Young man, get away from the crowd awhile and think. Stand on one side and let the world run by
while you get acquainted with yourself, and see what kind of a fellow you are. Ask yourself hard questions about
yourself. Ascertain from original sources if you are really the manner of man you say you are; and if you
are always honest; if you are always square, perfectly true in business details; if your life is as good and
upright at 11 o'clock at night as it is at noon; if you are as good a temperance man on
a fishing excursion as you are on a Sunday school picnic; if you are as good when you go to
the city as you are at home. If, in short, you are really the sort of a man your father
hopes you are, and your sweetheart believes you are. Get on intimate terms with yourself, my boy, and believe me,
every time you come out of one of those private interviews, you will be a stronger and purer man. Don't
forget this, and it will do you good.—The Knights of Pythias.

JILTED.

A lady's hand a man doth seek,
His fiery heart doth blaze;
He crouches near her on his knee
And pours forth her praise.
He woos her with a seeming zeal,
Says she: “Go 'way, you little tit,
You can’t fool me; I’m wise.”

Work in every hour, paid see only that thou work, and not escape the reward. Whether thy work be fine
or coarse, planting corn or writing epics, so only it be honest work done to thine own approbation, it shall
earn a reward to the senses as well as to the thought; no matter how often defeated, you are born
to victory. The reward of a thing well done.is to have done it.—Emerson. A weak mind is like a microscope,
which magnifies trifling things, but cannot receive great ones.—Chesterfield.

DR. OSBORNE SPEAKS TO THE Y.M.C.A.

At the Y.M.C.A. meeting on last Thursday night, Rev. F. M. Osborne, D.D., of Charlotte, spoke upon the text Luke
10:27: “Thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength,
and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself.” The text was carefully expounded. It was explained to mean
that this was the first and great commandment and that every Christian should strive to reach this ideal toward his
Maker. This love can be shown in different ways. Each person has some talent, and he must do his utmost
to use it in the most effective way to show his love. Everyone has the right to love God in
what he thinks is the best way: Loving with all the heart is the emotional love that is an essential
part of religion. Loving with the soul is the highest spiritual love. Loving with the strength is with the entire
being and personality, while loving with the mind is the calm judgment that comes after careful consideration. Loving one’s neighbor
is a natural consequence of loving one’s God. If the first is done sincerely and truthfully, the second will follow.

ACCOUNT OF ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB TRIP

The Davidson College Orchestra and Glee Club left Davidson, Monday morning, March 26th, for its first spring trip. Entertainment was
provided for the boys at different homes in the town at Lenoir, the first stop. The concert that night at
the opera house was well attended, and very successful. The night was spent in Lenoir. Leaving the next morning about
7 o'clock, Asheville was reached at 4 o'clock. A very nice dinner of fried chicken had been provided on the
train. From the station, the Orchestra and Glee Club proceeded at once to the Y.M.C.A. building, where a concert was
given to a fair-sized audience composed mainly of young people. Entertainment had been provided at Normal College, and after supper
at the college, a concert was given to the entire student body, who proved to be a very enthusiastic audience.
After the concert, the Juniors and Seniors gave a reception to the club. The next morning, after breakfast, a short
entertainment was given to the children of the Training School. Dinner was eaten at the college, after which they left
for Marion. Many evidences of the recent flood in that section were seen, and the train was delayed an hour
and a half because a bridge, which had been washed away, had to be replaced. Marion was finally reached, the
boys going at once to the different homes provided for their entertainment. The concert that night was scheduled for 8:30,
but some delay was caused on account of a missing fuse. The best concert on the whole trip was given
at this time, though it was not so well attended. The night was spent in Marion, the train leaving for
Davidson early Thursday morning. Between Statesville and Davidson, on the “last lap” of the trip, the five new members of
the Orchestra and Glee Club were brought into the organization with fitting ceremonies.

A stranger entered a church during the sermon. Getting tired, he asked his neighbor, “How long has he been preaching?”
“About thirty or forty years, I think,” replied the man. “I'll stay, then,” said the stranger; “he must be nearly
done.”—The Young Man and Woman.

THE TOWN OF DON’T-YOU-WORRY.

There's a town called Don’t-You-Worry, On the banks of River Smile, Where the Cheer-up and Be-Happy Blossom sweetly all the
while. Where the Never-Grumble flower Blooms beside the fragrant Try, And the Ne’er-Give-Up and Patience Point their faces to the
sky. In the valley of Contentment, In the province of I-Will, You will find this lovely city, At the foot
of No-Fret hill. There are thoroughfares delightful In this very charming town; And on every hand are shade trees Named
the Very-Seldom-Frown. Rustic benches, quite enticing, You'll find scattered here and there; And to each a vine is clinging Called
the Frequent-Earnest-Prayer. Everybody there is happy, And is singing all the while, In the town of Don't-You-Worry, On the banks
of River Smile.
—Rev. J. I. Bartlett, D.D.

A recent issue of the Christian Endeavor World contained the following clipping, which will interest all Davidson men, because Dr.
Price is the father of P. B. Price, '17, of Davidson: “Dr. P. Frank Price, the editorial secretary of the
China Christian Endeavor Union, has done splendid work this year in the preparation of a Chinese ‘Endeavorer's Daily Companion.’ This
follows the lines of the American ‘Companion,’ but all of it is adapted to Chinese needs. Dr. Price has supplied
for each Sunday a study of the Bible passage, as well as illustrations and comments suited to Chinese Christians. For
example, there are many illustrations from Confucius and other Chinese sages. Dr. Price has also written a series of brief
comments on the Junior Christian Endeavor topics.”

He had opened up a fish market and he ordered a new sign painted of which he was very proud.
It read: “Fresh Fish For Sale Here.” “What did you put the word ‘fresh’ in for?” said his first customer.
“You wouldn't sell them if they weren’t fresh, would you?” He painted out the word, leaving just “Fish For Sale
Here.” “Why do you say ‘here?’” asked his second customer. “You're not selling them anywhere else are you?” So he
rubbed out the word “here.” “Why use ‘for sale?’” asked the next customer. “You wouldn't have fish here unless they
were for sale, would you?” So he rubbed out everything but the word “Fish,” remarking: “Well, nobody can find fault
with that sign now, anyway.” A moment later another customer came in. “I don’t see what’s the use in having
that sign ‘Fish’ up there,” said he, “when you can smell them a block away.” And that’s why the fish
market has no sign.—Ex.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases and paints. Salary or Commission. Address LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.
