4 SATISFACTION IS SHOWN OVER WORK ON GYM

The Alumni Gymnasium, which has been the subject of so much discussion, is now well underway and bids fair to fulfill all hopes and expectations. It is true, the swimming pool is not to be constructed now, which is a source of great disappointment to the students, yet it is hoped it will follow within a few years. Although the following information appeared in a previous copy of The Davidsonian, it might be well to reprint it for the benefit of those who did not see it.

The building is to be of brick. The basement being above the ground, it will be practically three stories high. Above the basement, where team rooms, shower rooms, and lockers will be found, is the main floor of the gymnasium room, 58 feet 2 inches by 90 feet 10 inches, with a balcony on three sides. The floor of this room is of hard maple, and the trusses overhead of steel; the pitch is two stories. In front of the gymnasium proper are two tiers of rooms. On the first floor to the right of the wide lobby is the auxiliary gymnasium, 26 feet by 30 feet 2 inches; on the left is the directors’ office and two rooms for physical examinations. In the tier above is found living quarters for the director and a club room. The building is 91 by 95 feet 6 inches, outside dimensions, with a high pillared porch in front. The whole is colonial in character. The swimming pool is designed to communicate with the basement of this building and to be in a separate enclosure on the south side. Funds for this, owing to the unexpected great advance in the cost of building, are not now on hand, but it is hoped to add it soon. Twenty-five thousand dollars is available, and every dollar will be expended to complete the work just as far as possible. The foundation has been laid and the walls are now up to the basement windows and rising rapidly. The building completed will stand as a memorial of the interest and affection of the Alumni for their old college, and it is the place of The Davidsonian to express the gratitude and good feeling of the student body to the Alumni for the gift of this beautiful gymnasium.

MISS LILLIAN SHAW WINS A CARNEGIE MEDAL

The people of Davidson and especially the students of Davidson College will be interested to know that Miss Lillian Shaw, a niece of Miss Cornelia Shaw and head of the Physical Education department of Swarthmore College, Philadelphia, has been awarded a Carnegie hero medal and $1,600 for extraordinary bravery in rescuing a young woman from drowning in Red Bank River, near Philadelphia, last summer. According to the Philadelphia Record, Miss Chester Barry, of Clarksville, Tenn., became ill while swimming in the river, and called for help. Miss Shaw jumped into the water to rescue her and was drawn under by Miss Barry. However, she managed to regain the surface and kept afloat until both were rescued by two men. Miss Shaw formerly lived in Charlotte and was a student at Queens College. She was a frequent visitor at Davidson and made many friends while here. The students of Davidson College will feel doubly interested because of her relationship with our librarian, Miss Cornelia Shaw.

The Christian Endeavor speaking contest will be held May 19, in Shearer Hall. Miss Steele spent the weekend in Red Springs with her sister, who is sick.

1917 Baseball Team Summary of Baseball For Last Season

Despite Batting Slump, the Team Showed up Well.

The baseball season just closed, although much abbreviated by war cancellations, has been on the whole a most creditable and successful one. Rounding into shape slowly, the Red and Black nine developed game by game until toward the latter part of the season they were going in great style. The record stands, eight victories, six defeats, and one tie. While not such a brilliant showing on percentage, the games won were almost without exception with old rivals and were games which meant much in the winning. A. and E., Wake Forest and the University of Georgia were among those who bit the dust. Davidson lost a hard-fought series with Carolina and tied with Trinity, but aside from this the rest nearly all resulted in decisive victories. By comparative scores Coach Fetzer's machine ranks with any in the State, and had it not been for the Carolina series, the title of State Champions would be unquestioned.

The defensive and offensive work of the team, while at times brilliant, was far from steady. Frequent changes due to new outfielders is largely responsible for this. The pitching staff this year was as strong as could be desired. "Dutch" Hengeveld was the mainstay in the box and his work was of the highest order. As Mike Finn, the Detroit scout, will testify, Lawson shared honors with Hengeveld, and his pitching was steady and strong at all times. Bill must be rated as the "hard-luck" pitcher this year, and any man who showed as much stuff as he did in the Carolina game certainly deserved to win it. The infield was practically the same this year as last, with the exception of catcher, where Les Alford's loss was keenly felt. Sammy Keesler caught a steady game all season, but lacked the stick work of last year's star. Pete Saunders at first base had probably his best season at first, going errorless all season, but his stick work fell down considerably from last year. Captain Black at third played wonderful ball at times, but lacked his usual steadiness and stick ability. Johnson at second also failed to come up to his last year's standard. Atwood gave promise of even a better season this year than last, but his hoodoo pursued him, this time in the shape of a broken arm early in the season. Yank Boswell at short filled his shoes most admirably, fielding sure and fast, but his batting was none too good.In the outfield, Zeb McMillan was the only regular from last year to be present. Zeb was more than there with the goods, too, leading the team in slugging and fielding in fine style. Flowers broke into the game in left field early in the season and became a fixture. His fielding was fast and of the surest type, but his batting suffered the prevailing slump. John Pharr played steady ball in right field and was second in the batting list. Miller also played a great many games in the outfield and showed up well. On the whole, the individual players were decidedly off-color, in some cases due to inexperience, especially in the batting line. But one should not forget the teamwork which won the big games. This was what counted, and much of the credit for this is due to Coach “Bill” Fetzer, who always builds up a winning team.

ARE YOU COMING?

Following are some reasons why young men should go to college next year:

First: Because in the next generation, the educated men of America will have the greatest advantage and the greatest opportunity in an economic way that have come to trained men in modern times. Our country is facing an era of unprecedented prosperity. There will be losses and sacrifices incident to our participation in the war, but the total result will be beneficial. There will be an elimination of evils and a solidification of interests that will increase many fold our power and efficiency as a nation. In economic affairs, we will lead the world. We will go through a process like the stripping of a battleship—for will be thrown overboard and the entire ship brought to the point of highest efficiency. The educated men will be the captains and commanders. Do you wish to be a captain or a stoker in the financial, industrial, and commercial dreadnoughts we are building? Your education will largely decide your rank.

Second: Because in the next few decades, the world will look to America for trained leaders. Thousands of young men, fresh from college and university walls, the best brains and blood of Europe and destined to have been leaders in world affairs, have fallen on battlefields of Europe. Some of our own young men will doubtless suffer the same fate. Many European boys who have come to college age during the last three years were not able to go to college; others, after the war is over, will be unable to go because of loss of parent or property, or both. American college-trained men must come to the rescue. Only a few weeks ago, the writer was told by a gentleman conversant with conditions in Canada, that thousands of Americans were going into that country to take the place of business and professional men who have gone to the front. England, France, Germany, and the other warring nations have suffered much more than Canada. In 1920, the world will be sadly in need of trained leaders. Russia today would welcome thousands of our educated men to help organize and develop that great country. Our business leaders are calling for hundreds of college men to be trained for managerial and administrative positions. Latin America and the Far East, heretofore under European control in economic affairs, offer marvelous opportunities for American enterprise and genius. The National City Bank of New York City, realizing that we are to take a leading place as the world’s bankers, is training scores of college men to take charge of its agencies to be established in foreign countries. What young man is not inspired by the thought of filling some of these positions of great power and influence? A college education is a prerequisite.

Third: Because Southern young men will have the means, certainly for the next few years, with which to obtain a college education. Any youth with energy and thrift can earn enough money during the summer vacation to defray a large part of his college expenses the coming session. There was never before in this country such a demand for men in all kinds of work or positions. Farming, manufacturing, mining, and lumbering, the great industries of the South, are more profitable than they have been for years. Money will be plentiful in this section for some years to come and all forms of business will prosper. The large expenditure of funds by the Federal Government will stimulate production and trade to an unusual degree. Lack of means should not keep any energetic young man out of college next year.

Lastly: Why should the young man going to college select a church college? Because in a church college, religious and moral training is stressed as much as the intellectual and physical development. And, what the world needs and wants is Christian young men for leaders, with not only trained minds and bodies, but with a deep religious faith and a strong moral character. The church college aims to give just this training to young men who come under its influence. Young man, do not miss the opportunity of a lifetime, of a century even, by failing to get a college education within the next four years. By the time you graduate from college, the world will be in a new epoch, and the college-trained men will determine the course of this new era in world history. What will be your share in this great task?

“QUIPS AND CRANKS” APPEARS ON CAMPUS

If for no other reason, the class of 1917 will ever be remembered by us as having been the publishers of one of the best Annuals ever edited at Davidson. An attempt at a review of it can only bring forth this statement: “It is all fine.” No doubt there may be room for improvement here and there, for it can't be perfect, but it may well be added to the already long list of concrete examples of “What Davidson Can Produce.” It is a limp back book of over two hundred and fifty pages.

Dr. Arbuckle spoke last week at Back Creek, Rowan County. The Misses Young spent the weekend in Salisbury with friends.