The Davidsonian, April 11, 1917

With the Alumni

Invitations have been received to the wedding of Ernest Heap Graham, ex-'13, and Miss Mary Borden, of Goldsboro, N. C. The marriage will be on April 25th, and they will be at home at Greenville, S. C., after June 1st.

James Allan, Jr., '11, of Charleston, S. C., was married recently to Miss Aley, of Wichita, Kansas. Mr. Allan has been with the troops on the border during their service.

Rev. W. F. O’Kelley, '07, is pastor of the Dunlap Memorial Church at Shreveport, La.

Z. V. Robertson, '14, of the Senior class of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., has accepted a call to the church at Rockingham, N. C., and will take charge about June 1st.

Rev. W. H. Mills, of the class of '92, spent last Tuesday night in Davidson with his classmate, Dr. C. M. Richards.

B. H. Thurman, Jr., '10, was married on April 7th to Miss Mabel Edna Lee, of Asheville, N. C. They will be at home after April 20th in Savannah, Ga.

Among the names of the charter members of a cavalry troop which was organized at Wilmington, N. C., last week, appear the names of M. McRae, ex-'19, and T. H. Pritchard, ex-'20.

Malcolm Rumple, ex-'10, has been called out with the coast guard at Buck Horn Shoals. Being a Senior at A. & E. College, his enlistment automatically gave him his degree.

CLASS BASEBALL

The 1917 class baseball series will begin within the next two weeks. Practice has been going on steadily during the past week. With good weather conditions there has been nothing to hinder the candidates getting in shape for the annual tie-up. The Seniors, under the leadership of “Bill” Mattison, should put out a good team. The four-year men will have the advantage of better teamwork. The Juniors, with George King looking after their interests, will need nothing but a fair degree of luck. The champions of last spring are expecting to repeat the dose. The Sophs, with “Yank” Boswell as manager, can be counted on to put out a fighting nine. Already they have shown their athletic prowess in basketball and football. The pitching staff is their only stumbling block at present. The Fresh have not elected a manager yet. However, practice has revealed a good team in the making. With Garrison twirling they should make things lively for the upper-classmen. All indications seem to point out that the series will be of special interest and one that will cause the students to sit up and take notice.

C. E. SOCIAL IS PLANNED

The Christian Endeavor Society is planning to give a social in Shearer Hall on Saturday night, April 28th, to which the whole student body is cordially invited. A mock trial will be presented, and while the jury is out deliberating on the case some light refreshments will be served to the audience.

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESSES BY FACULTY MEMBERS

Several members of the faculty have given or intend to give commencement addresses at the various high schools of the State. Dr. T. W. Lingle gave the first one of the series last Thursday in Salisbury. He will make an address at the Derita High School on the 16th of April. Dr. J. M. McConnell will deliver the commencement address at the Statesville Female Institute on the 16th of May, and at Shopton on the 14th of the same month. Professor Currie will speak at Red Springs on the 8th of May. It is probable that still further arrangements will be made in the near future with the faculty members.

DR. MARTIN MAKES TWO ADDRESSES

Dr. W. J. Martin, accompanied by his wife, has been in Wilmington during the week attending the centennial of the First Presbyterian Church of that city. Dr. Martin had been invited to speak during the week’s exercises of the church, and on Tuesday addressed the congregation. His theme was “Complete Surrender to Christ,” and the basis of his address was the call of Christ, “Follow me and I will make you fishers of men.” On Wednesday morning Dr. Martin spoke to the Wilmington High School, his subject being “Patriotism.” In this talk he clearlyset before the members of the school the duty that the American citizen owes to his country.

N. C. COLLEGE PRESS ASSOCIATION TO MEET

The College Press Association will hold its annual meeting at Chapel Hill on April 17th and 18th. The delegation representing The Davidsonian and The Davidson College Magazine, consisting of T. J. Mitchell, R. H. Stone, O. J. Thies, and L. A. Chambliss, will leave next Monday morning. The object of the association is the drawing together of the different college newspapers.

"If a man can preach a better sermon, write a better book, or make a better mousetrap than his neighbor, the world will make a beaten path to his door," provided he advertises in The Davidsonian. TRY IT. One inch, $1.15.

There’s a Real “College Flavor” to our Suits for Young Men.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights, and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

Chero-Cola

The following clipping from a letter written by Mr. Andrew Allison, of Kiong-yin, China, addressed to the First Presbyterian Church, Wilmington, should be of interest to the student body and many outside friends, reference being made to Dr. Geo. C. Worth, father of W. C. and C. W. Worth, both of ‘19, who for twenty-two years has been a missionary in China:

“Dr. Worth doesn’t know anything about it, but as his fiftieth birthday approaches, the district magistrate and the gentry of the country are preparing a tremendous ovation, to be carried out with true oriental splendor and display, and we hear that the Board of Trade of Wusih, the big city thirty miles away, where the Worths settled first, are also invited to participate. And not to be behindhand, the hospital staff have assessed themselves at what looks to us a prodigious figure, considering their incomes, and are going to follow up the big affair with one all their own, having the school, etc., to help. There will be at least two days of celebration, and our modest Doctor will be overwhelmed when he learns of it.”

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.

GOLF TOURNAMENT IS BEING PLAYED NOW

Yesterday five preliminary rounds of the Golf Tournament were completed, and the qualifying round of the local spring handicap tournament. The flight play in this local tournament follows on today, Thursday, and Friday, each player having a handicap based on the average of his five preliminary rounds.

As stated last week, the four men making the lowest scores in the preliminaries will go to Greensboro to play in the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament, which is open to players from any college in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. This tournament will not be put off, but will begin as announced, on April 20th.

Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

The Bank of Davidson.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Dr. Martin spent the first of the week in Raleigh making arrangements for an Army officer to take charge of military at Davidson. Fellows, you had better come out now and get some training before the officer comes, if you know what is best.

Holy Week was observed at the local Methodist Church by prayer services each evening during the week. These meetings were led by the pastor, and customary Easter services were held Sunday.

Mere Man.
“Did Fussleigh take his misfortune like a man?”
“Precisely. He blamed it all on his wife,” —Tit-Bits.