The DAVIDSONIAN, January 24, 1917

Shoe Opening

With the Alumni

The Gilmer-Moore Co. opening will be held here at an early date. Wait to see our line before you buy.

Mr. Peter Gaillard Gourdin, '02, a civil engineer of Kingstree, S. C., was married recently to Miss Ada Belle Brockington, of Kingstree, a graduate of Winthrop College.

Rev. W. S. Plumer Bryan, D.D., '75, of the Church of the Covenant, Chicago, ILL, has been selected to deliver the Smyth lectures at Columbia Theological Seminary this Spring. This is a valuable course in the Seminary, and it considers itself fortunate in securing Dr. Bryan to deliver these lectures, which will be a distinctive addition to theological thought.

JOHNSON & POTTS

Representatives

Have you seen our $2.50 Basketball and Tennis Shoe?

James L. Payne, ex-'15, of Elberton, Ga., died in Pittsburg, Pa., where he was pursuing his studies at Carnegie Tech.

"24-hour delivery"

Joseph J. Summerell, '10, secretary and treasurer of the Raleigh Phosphate and Fertilizer Works, was on the Hill last week.

Spencer Kerr, a former Davidson man, of Baltimore, Md., spent Christmas here. Mr. Kerr is in the hardwood business in Mobile, Ala.

Judge J. A. P. Campbell, ex-1847, the last surviving member of the Confederate Congress, and one of Davidson's oldest alumni, died at his home at Jackson, Miss., January 10, 1917, aged 87 years. He entered college from Camden, S. C., at 14, was admitted to the Bar at 17, was married and elected to the Mississippi Legislature at 21 years. He was a member of the Constitutional Convention in Montgomery, Ala., 1861, and later, of the Confederate Congress. During three years’ connection with the Army he served as captain, lieutenant-colonel, and colonel. For 18 years he was on the bench of the Supreme Court in his adopted State. In 1871 and again in 1878 he was assigned the task of codifying the laws of his adopted State. The Jackson Daily News calls Dr. Campbell the “Nestor of the Mississippi Bar.” In 1882 the University conferred upon him the honorary degree of LL.D.

Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest Quickest Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. Sayad & Douglas, Agents

CITIZENS’ CLUB ORGANIZED.

A movement that will mean much to the men and boys of this town was started a few nights ago when the Citizens’ Club of Davidson was organized. The club was organized for the benefit of the young men of the town; and will be of the nature of a reading club and recreation hall. The place of meeting will be the hall over M. H. Goodrum's store, formerly occupied by the Bell Telephone Co.’s offices. The officers of the club are: E. L. Rone, president; C. A. Potts, vice-president; Jim Blue, secretary-treasurer. A committee consisting of Prof. A. Currie, Dr. C. M. Richards, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Mr. Harry Caldwell, was appointed to draw up the By-Laws for the club.

SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts

The committee to provide for the furnishing of the hall is composed of Spencer Crawford, H. G. Brown, I. R. Christenbury. Fifty members have already paid their initiation fee, or rather made a contribution to the fund for equipping the hall, initiation fees not having been decided on. The officers expect to have the hall open for meetings the last of this week. The young men of the town are entering into the plan with an enthusiasm that assures a splendid success for the enterprise, which will add much to the social life of the town.

Press Your Clothes Oldest man on the job Six suits for $1.00 L. S. PATTERSON

LiterarySocieties | SCHEDULE. Debate, Saturday night, January 27th: Resolved, That the United States should adopt a policy of universal compulsory military service. Eumenean—Affirmative: Hamilton, Hollandsworth, Honeycutt, Humphrey. Negative: Harwood, Hobson, Hudson, Jenkins. Philanthropic—Affirmative: Monroe, Murray, R. W. Robinson, Morton, Stogner. Negative: W. C. Neel, Thames, Sample, Wilson, H. T. Lilly. Declamations and Orations, Monday morning, January 29th: Eumenean—Declamations: Flynn, Guy, Harrell, Harris. Orations: Crouch, Fikel, Fraser, Frierson. Philanthropic—Declamations: Hurn, Pharr, Chalmers, Freeman, Query, Menzies, Tremain. Orations: Paisley, Henderson, Misenheimer, Ley.

LOOKING BACKWARD.

ONE YEAR AGO. Mission study classes organized. Dr. Snell makes an address before Y. M. C. A. on Missions. Preliminaries held for intercollegiate debates, subject: “Resolved, That the Government of Great Britain is more Democratic than the Government of the United States.” Basketball team defeats A. & M. 30 to 18, but loses to Elon 25 to 17. Class football begins. Sophs tie Seniors 0 to 0; Fresh defeat Juniors 6 to 0.

TWO YEARS AGO. Blue Pencil Club organized with nine members. Elections in literary societies. Alford elected captain of baseball team. First game of class football results in victory for Juniors over Fresh, 7 to 0. The Camp Fire Girls of Davidson intend giving a play in the near future.

STIRRING ADDRESS MADE (Continued from page 1) these are some of our foes. But the greatest of all is Indifference. Statistics show that only 50 percent of our Christians attend church services, and four-fifths never attend prayer meeting. With so great a field to work in and such deadly foes to fight against, why need we mention the fruits of this work? The salvation of the individual, the satisfaction of his supreme need—this is our primary aim. With the Spirit of God now so strongly moving the people to feel their need, Salvation will come first, followed by Civilization, and then resulting in the Evangelization of the World. At the close of Dr. McMillan’s talk, announcements were made as to the plans for the Mission Study work for the Spring term, and leaflets were passed containing the following list of the teachers and the subjects to be used in the study: Negro Life in the South: Professor Reed, S. R. Keesler, J. L. Fowle. Daybreak in the Dark Continent (Africa): T. K. Hobson, E. H. Hamilton, R. W. Cousar, J. B. Woods, J. W. Clark. South American Problems: Arbuckle, S. T. McCloy. Religion of Mission Fields as Viewed by Missionaries: Z. A. Thames, G. C. Bellingerath, P. B. Price. Students of Asia: W. C. Cumming, C. W. Worth. Islam: A Challenge to the Faith (Mohammedanism): W. Y. Savad. Dr. McConnell will continue his class on the study of Acts.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin DENTIST 413 Realty Building Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For Register and New Manual, address: Sheridan’s Teachers’ Agency Charlotte, N. C.

BRADY PRINTING COMPANY Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty. Statesville, N. C.

Gilbert & Patterson, A. G. Agents

REAL CONTENTMENT Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “Freak” styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste. Storrs - Schaefer Company GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises. Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. C. Goodman & Co. Druggists : Mooresville, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

CHARLOTTE FORD TRIP MOORESVILLE ANYWHERE—ANYTIME CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

M. O. STYLES

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited. John L. Douglas, Pres. H. W. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

When in Mooresville Visit The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson