The DAVIDSONIAN, April 11, 1917

SPRING is here and with it the opening up of outdoor life in all branches. Are You Ready for this
Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men's Footgear, at lowest prices to be found at the Gilmer
Moore Co. Johnson & Potts 2 Rumple

**24 Hour Delivery** Brown's Something good to eat all the time 17 South Tryon

Good Coal Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank C. L. GREY Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry Oldest Quickest Best Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS. A. S.
Potts, Agent 2 Rumple

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Johnson & Potts, Agts 27 Chambers and 2
Rumple

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson stood
at Davidson.

The Forum

There seems to be a tendency in The Forum to use assumed names in signing articles, or in some cases,
no names at all. The permission of such a practice by The Davidsonian gives a chance for a great deal
of harm to be done to the paper and to the college by irresponsible parties who feel secure because their
identity is unknown. The recent discussions about the student council have brought out under assumed names several statements which the
writers would hardly be willing to proclaim as their own, and which cannot help creating a false impression of Davidson
in the minds of outsiders. The article signed Petroleum V. Nasby II, in the issue of April 4, is one
of the most glaring examples which has come to my attention. Perhaps I am misjudging the author; perhaps the article
was intended to be subtly sarcastic, and was so understood. If that was the case, it should be labeled for
the benefit of outsiders, and even alumni; but if it is a statement of the writer's honest opinion, should he
not proclaim himself openly like a man, instead of dealing a backhanded blow at those who hold different opinions from
his own, and giving a false impression of Davidson ideals. I believe that this is putting the matter altogether too
mildly. I do not know whether the real name of the writer of this article is known to The Davidsonian
or not—I take it for granted that it is, for, as a member of the first Davidsonian Staff, I remember
that it was very distinctly understood, before the first issue was printed—three, not four, years ago—that no article should be
printed unless the writer was known to the editors, whether his name was published or not. Upon this condition only
was it then possible to publish the paper. Beyond this, it seems to me that no article for which The
Davidsonian is unwilling to take full responsibility, particularly if it is concerned with a moral issue, should ever be published
except over the name of the writer. If the writer thinks enough of his opinion to tell it to others,
should he not value it sufficiently to acknowledge it as his own? If he is afraid the disclosure of his
identity will hurt his good name, would not his opinion better go unpublished? I do not mean to say that
no pseudonyms should be allowed, but under the circumstances which I have cited, it seems to me that they are
impossible. The principle at stake is not a slight one. On it hinges the choice between manly, democratic, free speech
and irresponsible black-handism. Open discussion can bring good results, but rash anonymous statements can produce nothing but harm, if to
nothing else, to Davidson's greatest asset, her good name.

W. A. McIlwaine, '15. Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., April 6, 1917.

(Editor’s Note: For the benefit of the writer of the above article, and others who may have doubts as to
the tenor and meaning of the article referred to, we wish to state that the article signed “Petroleum V. Nasby”
was intended to be absolutely sarcastic through and through. The writer of the article is the last person who would
ever give forth such expressions as his own opinions of the matter. Under suggestion from work in Senior English, he
used this pen name for his negative suggestion as did his prototype, David Ross Locke, in the sixties. While The
Davidsonian Editors do not claim to be...)Perfect. We do not believe we have lowered ourselves enough to allow “irresponsible parties”
to either openly or back-handedly “do a great deal of harm to the paper and to the College.” Every writer
is known to us, and an article deliberately lauding the worst side of Davidson, and the few evils existing here,
would never have been published.

DR. McCONNELL GIVES AN INSTRUCTIVE LECTURE

In Shearer Hall, Monday night, Dr. I. W. McConnell gave a very interesting and profitable lecture, illustrated with stereopticon slides,
on “Tuberculosis and Typhoid Fever.” The causes of these two diseases, which are so prevalent and yet so preventable, were
graphically displayed. Statistics were given showing the large number carried away each year in the United States by the White
Plague and typhoid fever, more Americans succumbing each year than the Germans will probably kill with bullets during our war
with them. The means of preventing tuberculosis and typhoid were shown, and a plea was made for cleanliness and sanitation
in everything. Dr. McConnell also urged everyone to be vaccinated with the anti-typhoid serum, and gave statistics of its results
in the United States Army to show its efficacy.

FUTURE PLANS OF ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB

On account of prevailing conditions, the Orchestra and Glee Club canceled the trip which they had planned through South Carolina.
In its stead, the club has arranged for a short trip to Charlotte and Gastonia. The club will leave the
Hill Monday, April 16th, and give a concert in Charlotte that night. From Charlotte, they will go to Gastonia on
the following day, and appear there Tuesday night, returning to Davidson Wednesday morning.

SIX DAY SCHEDULE BEGINS NEXT YEAR

At the last meeting of the Faculty, it was decided to change the schedule from the regular one of five
days to a new one of six. Classes will start at 10 o'clock on Monday, and will continue until 1:30,
as usual. Those professors offering to take classes on Monday are Drs. Arbuckle, Fulton, Harding, and Lingle, and Professors Wood
and Withers. This new schedule will lighten the work considerably for those taking five and six tickets, as it will
spread the classes over more time, and will give one better opportunity to prepare them thoroughly.

We are grateful to some members of the alumni from whom we have received letters of protest against the scathing
satire of Petroleum V. Nasby. It was intended as a piece of sarcasm and as a joke, but many considered
it as a serious piece of writing, and those outside of the college would naturally think so. The views he
stated, of course, are the views of a few spineless fellows, but such is not the sentiment of the student
body—no such ideas prevail here. At this rate—judging from this article—Davidson is producing a satirist of the “Modest Proposal” type.

Thoroughly Renovated and Refurnished
CAFE SERVICE UNEXCELLED
Large Light Sample Rooms
SELWYN HOTEL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Connecting Rooms With Bath $1.50
Rooms With Private Bath $2.00 and Up
Rooms Without Baths $1.00 and $1.50

ORDER OF THE GRYPHON
1916-17.
T. T. Mitchell
Andrew Brown
S. R. Keesler, Jr.
P. B. Price
D. I. McKeithen
A. B. Reese, Jr.

T. J. Mitchell returned yesterday from a trip to William and Mary College at Williamsburg, Va., where he went as
a delegate from the Blue Pencil Club to the bi-ennial convention of the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity, which was held
there April 7-9th.

Miss Bertie Christenbury, who is attending the State Normal College, was at home for three days last week.

L.B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY
Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY
Is prepared to do All Kinds of Printing for college men
Prompt delivery a Specialty

Gilbert & Patterson Agents
Statesville, N.C.

LUNCHEON 12 M. TO 3 P. M., 50 Cts.
R. W. FARR, Mgr.
