THEDAVIDSONIAN

Gymnasium Instructor Secured for Next Year
Volunteer Convention
To Coach Track and Basketball
Davidson Students Take Leading Teams in Addition.

Through the efforts of the authorities, Davidson College has secured the services of Mr. George Whilden Mackey, of the class
of 1911, as gymnasium director and coach for basketball and track for next year. Mr. Mackey is now connected with
the Atlanta Y. M. C. A. as physical director, and will assume his duties at Davidson with the beginning of
the fall term. Davidson considers herself fortunate in securing such a man for this position, as he is eminently qualified
for the work. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Mackey took a course in the Springfield Training School for Y. M. C.
A. workers. During his last year at Davidson, and also while taking his M.A. course here, he was director of
the gymnasium work for the Freshmen. He has gained an enviable reputation as an athlete, and with the practical training
and experience he has received, he should prove a valuable man for the work here at Davidson. Not only is
Mr. Mackey an excellent athlete, but he is also a man of pleasing personality and attractiveness. He is, of course,
thoroughly familiar with college life and problems, and will be a sympathetic friend to all the men on the campus.
In addition to having charge of the gymnasium work here and coaching basketball and track, Mr. Mackey will act as
Y. M. C. A. secretary, and in holding this position he will fill a long-felt need at Davidson.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS.

Among the recent additions to the Library, there are quite a number of books of poems and on the appreciation
of poetry, which should appeal to lovers of verse. They are: “The Great Valley,” Masters; “Poems of Allan Seeger,” Archer;
“Ballad of a Cheechako,” Service; “Rhymes of a Red Cross Man,” Service; “Gallipoli,” Masefield; “Appreciations of Poetry,” Hearn; “War and
Laughter,” Oppenheim; “A Handy Guide for Beggars,” Lindsay; “Anthology of Magazine Verse for 1916,” by William Stanley Braithwaite, relates all
the poems published in the various magazines during 1916, and should prove especially interesting to those who are themselves interested
in writing poetry.

PUBLIC SPEAKING CLASS UNDER PROF. FULBRIGHT

After much discussion and some delay, the Faculty decided to merge the Public Speaking course, taught by Professor Currie, into
an expression class to be instructed by Professor Fulbright, during the three weeks of his stay here. When he has
finished his work, Professor Currie will resume the course in Public Speaking where the class stopped. This class is open
to any student who wishes to get the training offered in this course. A small fee is to be paid
to the Treasurer, Mr. Jackson, and this is the only matriculation requirement. It will not be counted as a credit,
but the training will be invaluable to any student.

Part In Meeting.

The annual conference of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union was held in Greensboro, last Friday through Sunday, March 9th-11th.
The conference was, of course, not limited to those who had already volunteered for the foreign field, but all those
who are interested were cordially invited. Over thirty-five went from Davidson, and most of the other colleges in the State
were represented, so that there were over a hundred that attended the conference. Those in attendance were cordially received into
the homes of the people of Greensboro and were delightfully entertained. The hospitality of the people of Greensboro was an
element that added much to the pleasure of the occasion. Space does not permit a full account of each one
of the sessions of the conference, but some of the most important points may be touched on. The sessions were
held in the First Presbyterian Church, except those on Sunday afternoon and Sunday night, which were held out at the
State Normal College. Friday night representatives of the different colleges made short speeches, after which Dr. Dobyns, of St. Joseph,
Mo., spoke on “Four Requisites of Success.” First, determination of purpose; second, elimination of the superfluous; third, the concentration of
all the forces to that end; and fourth, approximation to the ideal. On Saturday afternoon the election of officers for
the coming year was held, with the following results: O. H. Hodges (U. N. C.), President; Miss Mary Porter (E.
M. C.), Vice-President; Miss Janie Klutz (S. N. C.), Secretary; and J. R. Woods (D.C.), Treasurer. Mrs. White spoke at
this session on “The Preparation and Qualifications of the Volunteer.” She pointed out in a very clear and simple way
some of the essentials. Mr. Erdman also spoke on “The Necessity of Surrendering the Will.” Saturday night motion pictures of
Japan, Korea, and China were shown, after which Mr. Erdman made a talk showing just what those pictures should mean.
Sunday afternoon Mr. Erdman and Mrs. White gave some more valuable information about the foreign field, and some volunteers made
excellent short speeches. Sunday night J. R. Woods, D. V. Hudson, W. Y. Sayad, and Mr. Erdman spoke on “The
Call of the Fields.” Then there was the closing address by Dr. Dobyns.

JUNIOR TEAM HAS ITS ANNUAL “FEED”

Last Thursday evening the Junior football squad held its annual feed in the Social Center. The squad was composed of
Jones, Richardson, Overton, Fowle, Armstead, Therrell,Clark, Connoly, Mebane, Kennedy, Thames, J. B. Woods, Davis, and Finley. The table was loaded
with good things to eat, and when these were disposed of, a pleasant half hour was spent with jokes, etc.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 14, 1917.

The Week in Town

The Town People

Miss Fannie McBride has returned from Florida, where she made a visit to her brother. Dr. Richards held meetings in
Mooresville during last week at the Second Presbyterian church.

Misses Lizzie and Mary Young left last Wednesday for Concord for a short visit. Because of the prevalence of measles,
Miss Gordon Baskerville has suspended her day school for a time.

Mrs. Richards spent last Thursday in Mooresville.

Dr. Edward Mack, of Union Theological Seminary, visited Dr. Arbuckle during his stay in Davidson.

James Wharey Grew is confined to his bed with a case of measles.

The Book Lovers’ Club met last Tuesday. Miss Maud Vinson read a paper on “The Short Story.”

Dr. J. M. McConnell went to South Carolina the end of last week to make an address before a school
assembly.

Joe McConnell is fast recovering from the effects of his recent illness.

The millinery opening will be March 22nd and 23rd, at M. H. Goodrum’s store. See the advertisement in this issue.

NEW GRANDSTANDS FOR SPRUNT FIELD

The entire student body is delighted to learn that four new bleachers are being constructed on Sprunt Athletic Field. They
are to be larger than the ones now on the field and will be conveniently located so that a large
number of spectators can be accommodated. Also, there is being built a fence, three feet high and two hundred yards
long, running from behind home plate down toward first base, which will serve to keep over-enthusiasts off the diamond and
allow everybody to see the game. These improvements will add much to the appearance of the field, and will add
greater comfort to the onlookers, now subjected to many inconveniences at each game.

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST MONDAY NIGHT

The Fresh-Soph Declamation preliminaries will be held in the respective literary society halls on Monday night, March 19th, at 7:30
o’clock. All members of these classes who expect to enter the contest are asked to hand their names to the
presidents of their societies at once. Three men will be selected in each society to compete in a final contest
to be held in Shearer Hall two weeks later, when the winner of the medal offered by each society will
be chosen.

No. 22

Interesting Lecture On Alaska and Canada

A very interesting and instructive lecture, illustrated with motion pictures, was that of Mr. L. O. Armstrong, on the subject,
“From Labrador to Alaska,” shown last week in Shearer Hall. Mr. Armstrong is a Canadian who is thoroughly conversant with
Canadian affairs and scenes and who has given a good deal of time to a study of Canada’s resources in
behalf of the Bureau of Commercial Economics, giving a series of lectures on topics of commercial and economical interest. The
reels of pictures which Mr. Armstrong presented served as a background to his lecture and made it doubly vivid. The
first of these reels showed the beautiful sea scenes along the coast and demonstrated the vast amount of power which
lies, at present scarcely developed, in the strong rise and fall of the tides on the coast of Labrador. The
next reels showed scenes taken on a journey through Canada, illustrating the methods used in capturing and canning salmon, the
cutting and shipment of the immense trees, the wheat fields, which are among the largest in the world, and the
mining and grading of asbestos in the mines around Quebec. The last reel of the series showed more of the
beautiful scenery of Canada, including a view of the famous Lake Louise, said by some artists to be the most
beautiful in the world.

DAVIDSON MEN WILL ATTEND SUMMER CAMPS

Davidson will be well represented at the summer camps of military instruction this year, for North Carolina has been placed
in the Eastern Division and the men from this State will go to Plattsburg, N. Y., on the shores of
Lake Champlain. The camps for college men will be held in June and July and for business men in August
and September, each camp lasting one month. All expenses, transportation, uniform, and subsistence are paid by the War Department from
the recent appropriation by Congress. There is no obligation to military service. Full information concerning these camps may be had
from A. C. Wood or Dr. J. W. McConnell.

LYCEUM ATTRACTION SATURDAY NIGHT

Another of the lyceum attractions for this year will be presented next Saturday night, March 17th, in Shearer Hall, at
8 o'clock, when the Doering Orchestral Quintette, of St. Louis, will give an entertainment. This company consists of five ladies,
all talented musicians, and they will no doubt furnish an evening of great pleasure and profit.

Dr. John W. McConnell has secured the loan of two naval cannon to be placed at the foot of a
flag-staff it is proposed to erect on the campus this spring. These cannon and some projectiles for decorative purposes will
be shipped from one of the Navy Yards at an early date.
