The DAVIDSONIAN
November 14, 1917

ALUMNI NOTES

R. W. Guthrie, ’14, is traveling superintendent of agencies for the Curtis Publishing Company, of Philadelphia. His address is Springfield, W. Va.

R. L. Berry, ex-’16, is at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Rev. R. C. Lippard, ‘11, was married to Miss Catherine Louise Campbell, at Higginsville, Mo., on October 18, 1917.

J. S. Moore, ex-'15, is first lieutenant in the U. S. Army, and is now with the troops in France.

J. B. Dufhe, Sumter, S. C. ‘13, is practicing law.

Dr. Neal L. Anderson, ’85, has become pastor of the Independent Church, of Savannah, Ga. He will be installed this month.

Rev. C. F. Arrowood, ‘09, of El Campo, Tex., is taking graduate work at Rice Institute, Houston, Tex. His address is 2521 St. Emmanuel St.

Sergt. D. Ray Nimocks (“Red”), ex-’17, of the N. C. National Guard, at Camp Sevier, Greenville, S. C.; J. P. Laird, Jr., ‘17, of the Western Union Telegraph Company, and W. A. K. Crowell, ex-'19, were visitors on the Hill last week.

L. A. Chambliss, ex-'18, who is teaching at Macaulay Institute, in Chattanooga, was on the Hill last week.

Rev. R. D. Dodge, ‘09, of Clearwater, Fla., has been “drafted” by the War Work Council of Florida Y.M.C.A. for four weeks’ service in the raising of the $35,000,000 War Work Fund.

Mr. Wm. Heathly Scott, ’67, died at Sumter, S. C., on September 27th last. Mr. Scott was 71 years of age.

DR. WILLIAM MACK

William Mack was born in Sumter County, S. C., on October 24, 1865. He graduated from Davidson in 1883, with the degrees of M.A., having taken that degree along with the degree of A.B., and ranking second in his class. After leaving Davidson he taught school for a while, and then studied law in the office of his uncle, W. L. Mack, of Lamar, Missouri. Having completed a three-year course of law in two years at the University of Missouri, and graduating at the head of his class as well, he practiced law for eleven years in Missouri and San Francisco.

In 1900 Dr. Mack accepted an editorial position with the Edward Thompson Company, of Northport, a suburb of New York, publishers of law books. The first fruits of this work was “Rapalje’s and Mack's Digest of Railway Decisions,” a standard work of great repute. A short time later he changed his residence to New York, to join the American Law Book Company, with whom he has been for twelve years. He is editor-in-chief of the “Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure,” of which forty volumes have already been published. This has assumed rank among the most authoritative of legal works, and has assured Dr. Mack’s position as a foremost expounder of legal truth and a clear and forceful thinker.

Though Dr. Mack's work has led him far away, he has never forgotten the home interests. His alma mater has been the recipient of many gifts of books, and other gifts. He was given the degree of LL.D. by Davidson College in 1907.

J. W. Moore, who has been teaching at the high school in Winston-Salem, is now with the N. C. Field Artillery in training at Camp Sevier, Greenville, S. C.

J. L. R. Boyd, ’12, is at Camp Gordon, Ga., Headquarters, Battery F, 319th F.A., N.A.

The following extracts from a newspaper clipping with reference to W. G. Morrison, of the class of '16, now an aviator in France, will be of interest to the old men on the Hill:

He went over in July, landing at Liverpool, August 1. Writing to home-folks under date of August 18, Mr. Morrison says: “I've had quite a number of flights since I’ve been here and am learning right along. By the time you get this letter I will be flying alone. It is great sport and I’m enjoying it thoroughly. We get up about 4 o'clock in the morning, have coffee and beginFlying. At about 9:30 we stop flying, have breakfast, and start flying again about 5 p.m., and have dinner at 9:30. From 12 to 4 we sleep and have a little lunch at 4 p.m. After finishing here we will probably be sent to an advanced school, so it will be some time before we go to the front. I don’t know how long it will be before I get my commission.

A few months ago Rev. R. D. Daffin, '03, of the West Brazil Mission, was given permission to come home on account of impaired health, with what was thought to be a small prospect of ever being able to return to the field. He had bought his ticket to sail on the Rio De Janeiro, but the Brazilian Government took that steamer to carry the German ambassador home after her severance of relations with Germany, and Mr. Daffin’s trip was postponed. He then decided to try a change of climate in Brazil and went to Sao Sebastiao in the State of Minas, and in a few weeks found himself so much improved that he decided to stay there permanently, and is now in hopes that his health will be entirely restored. His new address will be San Sebastian de Paraiso, Minas Geraes, Brazil.

INTERCOLLEGIATE MATCHES HAVE BEEN CANCELLED

After Manager W. F. Hall had arranged a trip for the tennis team, on which matches were to be played with Trinity, North Carolina, and Lenoir, telegrams from Carolina and Lenoir were received last week stating that they would be unable to play. There were no explanations why the matches were called off. This left but the Trinity match, and the manager thought best, for financial reasons, to postpone this game. Because of the lateness of the season, it is hardly probable that any matches will be played with other colleges before spring.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB MET WITH MISS JOHNSON

The Book Lovers’ Club held an interesting meeting last week at the home of Miss Julia Johnston. The principal feature of the meeting was an address by Mrs. W. R. Grey on Macedonia. Illustrated with maps, Mrs. Grey showed the old Roman roads and the present battle lines. Mrs. Saunders, a guest of the club, spoke very interestingly of her personal experiences while living in Salonika. Three new members, Mrs. J. M. McConnell, Mrs. Macon Reed, and Mrs. W. W. Wood, were welcomed into the club at this meeting.

Out of a total of $16,550 worth of Liberty bonds bought in Davidson, $8,100 worth were bought by ladies and $8,450 worth were bought by men.

Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete Line of College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
Philadelphia

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association

DRY CLEANING
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
The Charlotte Laundry
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson

By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

Prepare for Senior Speaking
GET THAT SUIT DRY CLEANED
The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
8, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
J. A. THAMES

Chero-Cola
Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.

Faculty Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
17 Years at the Same Place
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers