| THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 11, 1917

ESSAY CONTEST PLANNED BY BLUE PENCIL CLUB

Under the auspices of the local Blue Pencil Club, a chapter in Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity, an essay contest has been inaugurated between the various high schools composing the West Central Division of the State, according to the grouping of the State University. The subject for the contest this year is "The Short Stories of O. Henry." The essays are to be submitted, under certain rules governing the contest, by the contestants on or before the first of May, and to the winner will be awarded a gold medal properly designed and engraved. In inaugurating this plan it is the hope of the Blue Pencil Club to stimulate a deeper interest among the high school students in the literary productions of North Carolina writers and enable them to thus broaden their literary knowledge.

OLD MAIDS’ CONVENTION PRESENTED SATURDAY

The presentation of the Old Maids’ Convention last Saturday night by the Camp Fire Girls was a great success. The auditorium was well filled with an eager and appreciative audience. The time for the convention to begin was rapidly approaching, but still no old maids were in sight. Soon, however, they began to come straggling in, and such a time they had at greeting each other one seldom sees. Finally, they got down to business, if it might be called such. That which appeared to be serious business to them had a very different reaction upon the audience. Many times were there bursts of laughter and applause caused by the comic antics and funny sayings of these dignified sisters.

One feature was the expression of each as to her feelings concerning her condition and hopes. During the discussion, a mouse ran across the floor and all of them jumped on the chairs except one old sister who had denounced men in general, who killed the mouse. She later strengthened her position against men by singing a solo that she was glad she was an old maid, a maid of sixty-three. About this time Professor Pinkerton arrived with his wonderful “Electric Transform-her.” He succeeded in getting some of the old spinsters to give his machine a trial. There were wonderful results, each one being changed into beautiful young ladies, until one desired to be changed into a man, because, as she said, she was afraid she may again become an old maid without having a chance to marry. The result of this experiment was the destruction of the wonderful machine. The convention as a whole was much enjoyed. The costumes and make-up of the members were fine. One significant thing was their motto: M-A-N—man, which they repeated in concert whenever it was permissible.

POLITY CLUB OFFICERS AND DELEGATES ELECTED

At a meeting of the Polity Club, held last Tuesday night, officers were elected for next year. J. A. Thames was elected President; L. A. Chambliss, Vice-President, and W. C. Cumming, Secretary and Treasurer. In addition to electing these officers, the club chose its two representatives to the Third Annual Conference of the Federation of International Polity Clubs, which will probably be held at Williams College.

SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, April 14th: “Resolved, that the number of representatives to Congress should be reduced.”

Eumenean—Preliminaries of Junior-Senior debate.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Alexander, Spence, Hall, Maddrew, and McKeithan. Negative: Clark, Dunlap, Grey, Kornegay, and Ratchford.

Monday morning, April 16th:

Eumenean—Declamations: Byrd, Carmyle, S. R. Craig, and Cunningham. Orations: Sayad, Thomas, J. B. Woods, and A. R. Craig.

Philanthropic—Declamations: Hunter, Brown, McAlister, J. W. Howell, Karriker, Corriher, and Freeman. Orations: Rankin, Fowle, and Nisbet.

WEEKLY MEETINGS

There was no meeting of the Eumenean Society Saturday night, due to the lack of fights. At the Monday morning meeting, G. M. Robson gave a declamation, “Extracts From President Wilson’s War Speech.” The following men gave orations: P. B. Price, “Biographical Sketch of Dr. Shearer;” B. D. Roddey, “The Swiss Military System;” F. M. Mitchell, “A Diploma From Society Should Count as a Course Towards the Student’s Degree;” and F. H. Hamilton, “The Russian Revolution."

In the Philanthropic Society on last Saturday night, the debate was: “Resolved, that those graduating from literary society should be given a credit on the college curriculum.” The affirmative was upheld by Ratchford, Hall, Calhoun, Stone, and McKeithen, while the negative was represented by McDonald, Fleming, McClure, and Siske. The debate was long, dull, and uninteresting. None of the speakers had sufficient preparation, as all but one were appointed on. The committee awarded the decision to the negative.

On Monday morning, the program consisted entirely of declamations. Chalmers gave “Charge of the Light Brigade;” Foreman, “War, Its Purpose and Results;” Spratt, “Education;” Alexander, “Extracts from Burke's Conciliation of the Colonies;” Currie, “Sergeant Prentiss’ First Plea;” and Hunter, “The American Flag.” The critic complimented the speakers by saying the speeches were the best delivered this year.Williamstown, Mass., from June 26th to July 5th, J. A. Thames and W. C. Cumming were elected as delegates to this conference, and L.A. Chambliss, alternate. In view of the war situation, it is doubtful if this meeting of representatives of the various Polity Clubs of the country will be held, though plans are already being made for an interesting and profitable gathering. President Garfield, of Williams College, has consented to obtain all possible support on the part of the college, and the American Association for International Conciliation has again agreed to give its financial support. Before the business meeting of the local club, S. T. Henderson gave an interesting review of the book, “Why Men Fight,” by Bertrand Russell.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS HAVE HELPFUL MEETING

The Christian Endeavor Society held a very interesting meeting Sunday evening at 6:15. The topic for discussion was “The Significance of Easter," taking the Bible reading from the last part of the fifteenth chapter of First Corinthians. Several good points were brought forward by different members of the society. G. L. Webber, the leader for the evening, took as his starting point the words: “For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality,” and gave a very interesting talk, showing our whole religion rests on the risen Christ. Another good point was that Presbyterians did not favor having Easter once a year, but every Sunday was an Easter to them. The meeting was only attended by about fifty members, but the Christian Endeavor Society seems to be reaching more and more men on the campus as the weeks go by.

Mr. S. S. Crashaw, of Salisbury, N. C., the contractor for the Gymnasium, was on the Hill last week for the purpose of making preparations for beginning work. He spent most of his time while here engaging houses and board for his workmen, buying material for the gymnasium, and making such other plans necessary for beginning work immediately.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF S. F. C. MEETS

Y. M. C. A. HEARS “THE CALL OF THE WAR”

At a meeting of the Executive Committee of Statesville Female College, held at Davidson, April 2nd, a delegation of six ladies from Statesville, accompanied by Dr. J. N. Moore, President of the College, appeared before the committee. They asked for its consent to a proposed change in the name of the college, from Statesville Female College to Mitchell Memorial College. The name was selected in memory of Dr. Elisha Mitchell, who lost his life on the mountain which bears his name, and also in memory of his two daughters, who had charge of the college for a number of years. The change will very probably be made.

Mesdames M. R. Adams, J. A. Webb, and B. F. Long, all of Statesville, composed the delegation of ladies. The members of the Executive Committee present were: Drs. J. B. Shearer, Chairman; C. M. Richards, C. F. Raynall, and Mr. W. F. Hall.

At a meeting of the drill company Wednesday night the following officers were elected: Bob Walker, Captain; B. D. Roddy, First Lieutenant; C. W. Angle, Second Lieutenant; R. P. Richardson, First Sergeant; W. N. McBane, Right Guide; J. D. Ware, Left Guide; W. D. Lawson and J. B. Sizer, Line Sergeants.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS

During the past week the Library has received two donations. One through the Polity Club, which consists of “American World Politics,” by Walter F. Wevl; “The New Protectionism,” by J. A. Hobson; and “Why Men Fight,” by Bertrand Russell. The other donation was seven volumes of the “Brass Foundation Library,” given by Lake Forest University, as follows: “The Bible, Its Origin and Nature,” by Marcus Dods; “The Problem of the Old Testament,” by James Orr; “Sources of Religious Insight,” by Boyce; “The Bible of Nature,” by J. Arthur Thomson; “Faith Justified by Progress,” by Wright; “The Religions of Modern Syria and Palestine,” by Bliss; and “The Mythical Interpretation of the Gospels,” by Thomas James Thorburn. This is a valuable addition to our already large library and should be used by everyone.

Dr. Martin and Dr. Sentelle attended the meeting of Mecklenburg Presbytery last Wednesday at Philadelphia Church. There was a large representation, and all reports were filed and were very encouraging. The report of Davidson College was submitted at the fall meeting.

BOOKS - STATIONERY - NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.