The DAVIDSONIAN, October 17, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Debate, Saturday night, October 20: Resolved, "That intercollegiate debates should be suspended during the war."

Eumenean—Affirmative: Potts, Carwile, and J. G. Richards. Negative: Frierson, Turner, and C. B. Robson. Orations: I. M. Orgain and E. A. Woods.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: C. Howell and O. C. Williamson. Negative: W. C. Smith and J. B. Caldwell. Extemporaneous debate: W. P. Davenport and H. C. Hamilton. Oration: E. G. Lilly. Declamation: L. L. McAlister.

The meeting of the Phi Society last Saturday night was taken up entirely with the question of the welfare of the children working in the cotton mills. The first part of the program was a debate on the query: "Resolved, That the Keating Child Labor Law should be sustained."

The affirmative side of the question was presented by R. W. Robinson and C. W. Worth. The negative was upheld by R. H. Stone and W. M. Currie. The gentlemen of the affirmative contended: (1) That working a child deprived him of an education and the joys and privileges which are rightly due him; (2) that the law was constitutional, and (3) that it was the best way to deal with the situation. The arguments of the negative were: (1) That the law protects interstate commerce rather than the children; (2) that it is not comprehensive enough in its protection, and (3) that it is wrong economically.

After the debate, there were two extemporaneous orations. Both gentlemen carried out the same line of thought as the debate. R. Kornegay, Jr., gave the orations.

In the Eumenean Society, Saturday night, C. F. Allen and W. J. Huneycutt upheld the affirmative of the question: Resolved, "That the Keating Child Labor Law should be sustained." The Keating bill attempts, by prohibiting the interstate commerce of all articles manufactured by children under 14 years of age, to prohibit child labor. The affirmative argued: (1) That it is constitutionally legal; (2) that it would accomplish its purpose of preventing child labor, and should therefore be sustained. The negative, upheld by Smith and J. R. Woods, sharply attacked the bill, arguing: (1) That it is an indirect rather than a direct blow at child labor; (2) that it is a blow aimed by Northern leaders of Congress at the industries of the South; (3) it is a blow at state's rights by giving the Federal Government too much power. The committee to decide upon the merits of the question voted in favor of the affirmative, the house voting in favor of the negative.

Following the debate, orations were delivered by J. B. Woods, Jr., who spoke on "Kerensky," and by Andrew Brown, who spoke on "Debates in the Eumenean Society." The president announced an election of officers to be held Saturday night, October 20.

DR. J. M. McCONNELL TO GIVE LECTURE

The faculty committee on lectures has asked Dr. J. M. McConnell to give a lecture to the student body during the vacant period from 11 to 11:50 o'clock next Thursday, the 18th. He will speak upon the subject, "Why the United States Went to War With Germany." All students will be required to attend, and the public is cordially invited.

SHALL WE ADOPT HOOVER'S MEATLESS DAY?

The condition of Europe compels the serious consideration of the men and women of America of the fact that America must feed the nations with whom she is allied or, in the near future, America must fight Germany alone. This is the substance of the words of Dr. Martin at chapel last Monday. Immediately afterwards, at least one boarding house took up the matter and Mrs. Manning's house is to observe one meatless meal each day. Flora Macdonald College was the one Dr. Martin referred to as observing one wheatless and one meatless day each week and one sugarless meal each day. This plan is one of Food Administrator Hoover's and is being adopted in many parts of the country. It is a regretful fact that either because they lack the strength to live through adav without meat, or lack the patriotism to do all in their power for the boys in the trenches. Some are unwilling to deny themselves; nevertheless, it is rumored that other houses will soon line up in the National Food Conservation campaign.

Where Will a Bit Go a Long Way?

$1.25 Invested in a subscription to The Davidsonian

If you don't believe it, try it. The proof of the pudding is in the eating thereof. Let us serve you a tempting portion every week throughout the college year. But how are we to know that you want us to continue sending the Davidsonian unless you send us $1.25 now?

This Alumnus recognizes the worth of The Davidsonian and does his “bit” to its success:

Business Manager “Davidsonian” Davidson, N.C.

Dear Sir: Enclosed find check for $1.25. Put my name on the subscription list of “The Davidsonian.” I wish to congratulate you on the issues that you have put out this term. Keep up the good work.

Very truly yours, Sam Barney Hay, ‘10.

10,000 STENOGRAPHERS AND TYPEWRITERS NEEDED

The following is an Associated Press dispatch carried in the papers of October 13, under the above head:

“Washington, Oct. 12—Now that Uncle Sam has the young men of the country in training for military service, he finds that he needs 10,000 typewriter operators and stenographers, both men and women, for the departments at Washington. The civil service commission has notified all of its 3,000 boards of examiners that they should put forth their best efforts to secure these urgently needed workers. While examinations are now held weekly in 450 cities, the commission states that arrangements will be made to have an examination held at any accessible place where a small class of applicants can be secured. The entrance salaries range from $1,000 to $1,200 a year.”

Would you like to train for one of these positions? If so, see J. A. Thames about it.—Adv.

A Concise Narrative.

There was an explosion of one of the big guns on a battleship not long ago. Shortly afterward, one of the sailors who was injured was asked by a reporter to give an account of it.

“Well, sir,” rejoined the jacky, “It was like this: You see, I was standin’ with me back to the gun, a-facin’ the side. All of a sudden I hears a great noise; then, sir, the ship physician, he says, ‘Set up and take this.’”—Ex.

One Second-Hand Fox Typewriter

In good condition For Sale. Price $35 Discount for Cash.

See W. C. CUMMING 14 RUMPLE

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.

JACK TAR A NEW STYLE FOR FALL AND WINTER 20c EACH 3 FOR 50c 12 FOR $2

Rutledge & Norton Next door to Post Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-1 Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N.C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA UNITED SHIRT & COLLAR CO. TROY, N.Y.

A.G. SPALDING & BROS., 74 N. Broad St.

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N.C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House

In the Spalding line you have equipment that is right officially, high grade as to workmanship and durable in quality. The SPALDING No. M BASKETBALL is guaranteed perfect in every detail. Catalogue on request.

THE COMMISSARY BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST.

Musical Homes Are Happy Homes Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.

STIEFF 219 South Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A Nice Line of Pennants College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches and Alarm Clocks W. M. Torrence The Jeweler

The Wallace-Brough Millinery Company Have a new line of Trimmed Hats---Velours Prices $4.50 to $7.50 Also a Fine Selection of Shirt Waists