Vol. V.

Furman Is Defeated By Davidson Team
Muddy Field Keeps Down Scoring. Straight Football Played.

Playing straight football, Davidson won from the Furman Hornets by the score of 28 to 7. Tho playing good, hard
football, Furman was unable to stop the Red and Black machine. The field was somewhat heavy and prevented the two
teams from showing up at their best.

Davidson won the toss and elected to receive. Speer kicked to Burns, who returned 30 yards. Crouch, Spann, McAlister, and
Flowers followed with line bucks and skirted the ends for steady gains. With first down on Furman’s 5-yard line, Burns
plowed over left guard for Davidson's first score. Flowers kicked goal.

The second quarter was a steady fight midfield, with no scoring and little of the spectacular. In the third quarter,
Crouch rounded right end for the second touchdown and Flowers’ toe added another point to D. C.’s score. In the
fourth quarter, both teams really began football. Spann, Davidson's field general, worked his team down the field, following line smash
with end run, and finally sent Flowers around left end for the third touchdown.

Furman uncovered her best when Rhame placed two forward passes and Speer made 20 yards around right end. Rhame then
bucked the line for a touchdown. Speer kicked goal and ended Furman's scoring. In the last few minutes of play,
Spann cut loose three passes to King for the last touchdown of the game. Flowers kicked goal for the fourth
time.

For Furman, Rhame and Speer starred, while Burns, Spann, Flowers, and King were the particular stars for Davidson.

The line-up:
FURMAN. POSITION. DAVIDSON.
Wright .......... Left End .......... King
Shirley .......... Left Tackle ...... Shaw
Sims ............. Left Guard ....... Grey
Boyd ............ Center ............ Crouch, W.
Jones ........... Right Guard .... McMaster
Nixon ........... Right Tackle ..... Elliott
Brown .......... Right End ........ Richardson
Rhame .......... Quarterback ...... Spann
Gregory ......... Left Halfback .... McAlister
Speer ............ Right Halfback ... Flowers
Gressette ....... Fullback .......... Burns

Substitutes: Brady for Shaw, Clark for W. Crouch, Fowle for Elliott, Currie for Richardson, Shaw for Brady, G. Crouch for
McAlister, Miley for Burns, Anderson for Sims.

Score by quarters:
Davidson ........ 7 0 7 14—28
Furman .......... 0 0 0 7—7

Officials: Referee, Bender (Nebraska); umpire, Leach (Tennessee); head-linesman, Brown (Vandy). Time of quarters: 12, 10, 12, 10.

Class Basketball Began Monday Night
Complete Schedule Is Announced. Games In New Gym.

Class basketball was postponed until the new gymnasium was complete, so that all games could be played on the new
court. The opening game was played Monday night, November 5, between the Sophomores and Juniors. The games are to be
played on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday nights, beginning promptly at 8 p.m., on each night except Thursday night, beginning
then at 8:30 p.m. on account of the Y. M. C. A. meeting on that night.

The complete schedule is as follows:
Monday, Nov. 5—Sophs vs. Juniors.
Tuesday, Nov. 6—Fresh vs. Seniors.
Thursday, Nov. 8—Sophs vs. Seniors.
Friday, Nov. 9—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Monday, Nov. 12—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Tuesday, Nov. 13—Juniors vs. Seniors.
Thursday, Nov. 15—Sophs vs. Juniors.
Friday, Nov. 16—Fresh vs. Seniors.
Monday, Nov. 19—Sophs vs. Seniors.
Tuesday, Nov. 20—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Thursday, Nov. 22—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Friday, Nov. 23—Juniors vs. Seniors.

LIBERTY BONDS DONATED TO ENDOWMENT FUND

Every class of Davidson College has bought Liberty Bonds and decided to donate them to the Davidson College Endowment Fund.
It is no unusual thing for a class of alumni to give a substantial donation to the college, but for
undergraduate classes to take such an action is unusual and at the same time very praiseworthy. Each class, by buying
a $50.00 Liberty Bond and donating it to the college, has proved both its patriotism and its college spirit.

MAGAZINE OUT SOON.

The first issue of the Davidson College Magazine has gone to press and will make its appearance within a few
days. The upper-classmen have responded unusually well with articles for the Magazine, and it promises to be well up to
the standard of former issues. The Freshmen, however, have failed to contribute, but it is hoped that the next issue
will contain some articles from them.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle, advisor for women students at the University of North Carolina, recently attended the meeting of the
State Federation of Women's Clubs of North Carolina, at Winston-Salem, and on her return made an address in Greensboro to
the students of Greensboro College for Women.

Owing to the fact that Dr. Fulton will be off the Hill every Saturday, speaking in the interests of the
Y. M. C. A., Senior English has been changed from Saturday morning to Friday night at 7:15, and this will
continue till further announcement.

Irwin Russell’s Poems Edited By Dr. Fulton
The New Unpublished Poems Are Included In Book.

Among the forthcoming holiday books is one of especial interest to Davidson students: “Irwin Russell’s Poems,” edited by Dr. Fulton.
This book contains Russell’s best-known works.Poem, “Christmas Night in the Quarters,” and in addition thirty-nine other poems by this promising
but unfortunate poet. Among these poems are eight new ones, three of which have never appeared in print before. The
book contains an introduction by Joel Chandler Harris, and a biographical sketch by Dr. Fulton, who has given much study
to Russell’s life. E. W. Kemble has drawn thirty-nine illustrations for this edition, yet of some, the criticism might be
made that they are lacking in fidelity to the Mississippi negro. The book is gotten out in holiday style, with
a blue cover, and border of blue tint. Irwin Russell was “one of the first to realize the literary value
of negro character and dialect.” While he wrote some humorous poems in imitation Irish, his best work is the presentation
of the negro of his own native Mississippi. Had his life not been cut short by death, he might have
produced even more memorable works. As it is, such poems as “Nebuchadnezzar” and “Dat Peter” will remain as accurate descriptions
of negro life and thought.

MISS SARAH WOOTEN IS HONORED AT SOCIAL

Miss Sarah Wooten, who will be married to Mr. Johnston, of Mooresville, was the guest of honor at a delightful
social given last Wednesday by Miss Frances Worth and Miss Gordon Baskerville. A few days previous to this, a surprise
party was tendered the bride-elect and the Primary Department of the Sunday School gave her a beautiful cut glass pitcher
in token of their appreciation of the services that Miss Wooten has rendered them. The marriage ceremony will be performed
on Wednesday, the 14th of this month.

NEW MEMBERS INITIATED INTO BLUE PENCIL CLUB

Several new members have been added to the roll of the Blue Pencil Club, the local chapter of Sigma Upsilon.
The following men were initiated last week:
Class of '18: L. M. Currie, T. W. Hawkins, G. C. Bellingrath, J. B. Daffin.
Class of '19: E. G. Lilly.

HANDBOOK PROOF RETURNED

The proofs of the Y. M. C. A. handbook have been corrected and returned to the printers. They are expected
to arrive some time this week. The binding is somewhat inferior to that of last year’s but the contents are
expected to be as good or better.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 7, 1917.

Class Basketball No. 9

Davidson Tackles Auburn Saturday

Auburn Has Unbroken String of Victories.

Everyone who looks up the dope will be convinced that the Auburn-Davidson game will be a real classic. So far
Auburn has an unbroken string of victories—Howard, 53-0; “Ole Miss,” 13-6; Clemson, 7-0, and Florida, 68-0. On the other hand,
Davidson has played her heaviest games, and intends to repeat, for Auburn's benefit, her performance against V. M. I. That
Auburn has fine material cannot be denied. Bonner and Caton at tackles are dangerous against any team. Rogers, center; Warren
and Sanford, guards, with Ducote and Gibson at ends, make out a heavy, but fast line that will be hard
to manage. Captain Robinson, at quarter; Revington, at full, and Donohue, Creef and Trapp, at halves, make up the backfield.
Trapp is a new varsity man, but is one of the fastest men on the squad, and was last year’s
star in class football. Ducote, of last year’s All-Southern team, is Auburn's best bet for punts and end runs.

The Auburn team will outweigh Coach Fetzer’s scrappers, but Davidson's team will make up in pep all they lack in
other ways. Besides, Davidson has her “Coach Bill,” who is a team in himself. With the D.C. line Auburn will
have trouble and against ends like King and Richardson even the great Ducote will find his hands full. Burns, Flowers,
Spann, Crouch and McAlister, in the backfield, are sure ground-gainers and men whom Captain Robinson's men may well watch. Auburn
will probably line-up as follows: Ducote, left end; Sanford, left guard; Bonner, left tackle; Rogers, center; Warren, right guard; Caton,
right tackle; Gibson, right end; Robinson, quarterback; Donohue, Creel, Trapp, halves; Revington, fullback.

STOP! LOOK! READ! DON’T MISS THIS!

Davidson has one of her hardest games Saturday. Auburn is no mean opponent. The game will be a real, genuine
scrap from whistle to whistle. Davidson’s record so far this season shows that her team is all right. But how
about her student body? Our team has the old pep—let’s stir up a little more pep among the students as
a whole. Davidson’s 10 to 32 versus Georgia Tech looks good mixed with scores like Tech 41, Penn. University 0;
Tech 63, Washington & Lee, 0; Tech 83, Vandy 0. Don’t such scores show that our team is here in
every sense of the word? Let’s get out and when our team leaves Friday night, show them we're behind them,
kick over the old pepper box and give our Red and Black fighters a send-off that will show we're behind
them, and show the real “pep” which the student body undoubtedly has and for which our college is rightly famous.
Kick over the pepper box and distribute that delicate condiment all the way to Atlanta and Auburn.
