2 The DAVIDSONIAN. April 11, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly........... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson... Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson...... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are:
J. B. Woods, E. N. Booker, G. A. Byrd, W. M. Currie, Wm. Love, L. G. Calhoun, W. C. Neel, T. E. Guy, M. A. Tremaine, R. W. Robinson, D. M. Chalmers, R. T. Liston, D. W. Roberts, H. T. Lilly, L. P. Good.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

“War educates the senses, calls into action the will, perfects the physical condition, brings men into such swift and close collision in critical moments that man measures man,"—Emerson.

Recently in this column we spoke of the introduction of the Rifle Club. Under the then existing conditions we are still of the same opinion. Under those same conditions we would not retract, but since Congress has declared war against Germany, we are going to support this action as hard as cannon balls, even though it contradicts everything that has been said.

As yet no action has been taken by the student body as a unit in this regard. But the general consensus of opinion is that we are going when needed. Probably some will go at first call. Others will follow later if they are needed. Some will go to mobilization camps, others to chemical laboratories or to places where their genius bids fair to render the best service to their country.

On account of the absence of President Martin, the faculty has not given its expression as to what policy will be followed. But this is expected soon. Davidson men are voicing the same spirit of democracy and justice as the whole world is doing. We are going to fight for the maintenance of our national honor and integrity. The principles which are sacred to man and God will be upheld and fought for by the “Red and Black” spirit as long as those principles exist. Davidson stands for championing the right.

THE SPIRIT.

“Yes, boys, that is a bad mud hole (just north of town) and it ought to be fixed. The Mecklenburg line goes beyond that sign and there the Iredell line begins. Neither will fix it, and some of them will have to pay for it some day!" These were the words frankly spoken by a farmer, sixty years old, who resides near here.

This conversation took place on the highway to Statesville last Thursday. The man was lame, tanned, and the white beard was growing out somewhat on account of the neglect for several days. He had an air of thorough seriousness and intense earnestness.

“Boys, I have been down to Davidson to find out the war news. I hear that Congress is going to declare war, and I am skeered. Yes. There are two boys at home—one is twenty-two, the other will soon be twenty. They are delicate boys. I lost three older boys with tuberculosis. My wife is worried about them too.”

“I'll tell you! Germany wants to get the United States into this scrap. We are always good to our prisoners. We have never mistreated them. Germany knows that if she surrenders to England or France that she will be blotted off the earth. Germany wants to surrender to us because we will treat them square.”

Have you ever heard this stated in this way before? This stands in the face of reason. It is a good philosophy.

“I have never forgotten the other war. For the first two years we lived pretty good—my father left plenty to eat. But I'll tell you the truth, in the last two we liked to starve. I have walked with my mammy every two weeks from a little crossing just above here to Statesville for a half gallon of salt. And then maybe we would not get it until next draw day. I had rather go to war than for my boys. If they kill me they will cheat me out of a few years. When I was in town awhile ago I saw those students lined up and I thought then that they would soon be in another kind of line.”

Then we talked about some members of the faculty and what they thought. He, in his way, spoke in most complimentary terms of those whom he knew. But he could not keep from talking about war.

“I'll tell you, boys! We are going to win this war. God is on our side. America has never lost a battle.”and we are going to win this.” Midnight raids by aeroplanes over this country were discussed. Then as to the probable damage that would be done to our munition plants. He expressed his contempt for the Germans trying to raise a riot among the colored race. “When they do I will shed the last drop of my blood. And those old Mexicans—they are liable to give us trouble. But we are going to win.” A swift little breeze blew a treacherous cloud above the horizon. After telling him how much we enjoyed having talked with him—we departed, not knowing his name. These few moments were impressive for two college boys. Impressive in many ways. Although he rarely spoke a sentence correctly, yet he had some good ideas about the war and he had the spirit of Americanism. As a ten-year-old boy he had so suffered hunger and had realized the awful experiences of war that he was able to give us a more vivid picture of what war really is. This shows the spirit—the paternal care—would take the place of his boys; it shows the absorbing interest that this war is commanding; it shows the true genuine spirit in which we should face the enemy's fire, that we know the horrors, we should die for our country if needs be. Then, too, he had solved the situation—we would win—we had been kind to our prisoners of war and Germany wanted to surrender to us—God is on our side.

REPORTERS’ STAFF TO BE FORMED

At a recent meeting of THE DAVIDSONIAN Staff a new plan of competition was adopted for the reporter's staff which was as follows: Every man who desires to compete for the reporter's staff must hand his name to the Assignment Editor, who will send to him each week at least one or more assignments. These assignments will be turned into the different members of THE DAVIDSONIAN Staff, who will correct and grade the assignments and then turn them over to the Managing Editor, who shall keep a record of each man’s work. From the number handing in their names, ten men will be chosen, according to the grade of their work, faithfulness, punctuality, etc., to form a reporters’ staff. This staff shall be eligible for election to THE DAVIDSONIAN Staff. The names of the ten successful men will appear in the issue of May 9th. Another plan is, beginning with next year, to have the Freshman class compete for places on this reporter's staff, which shall be eligible for election to THE DAVIDSONIAN Staff. Every man who will, is urged to hand his name to the Assignment Editor at once, whether he has written any article before or not, so that his name may be entered among the contestants. Any member of the Staff will be glad to discuss anything not made clear about this contest.

Miss Irene Gudger, of Mooresville, was the guest of the Misses Shelton for the week-end.

Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office. We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer absolutely. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Let us quote you prices on any printing that is ordinarily—or extraordinarily—used in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, - - Representative

Just A Little Different

A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Baseballs
Shoes, Gloves
Tennis Balls
Tennis Rackets
Tennis Nets & Tennis Shoes
at
The Commissary
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

FOR THAT FORD TRIP... see R. D. MOONEY

TYRONE - 2% in. an ARROW formfit COLLAR
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC.

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
294 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Quality Counts
That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.
Alex. Taylor & Co.
The Commissary