[With the Alumni]

Everett L. Booe, of Davidson, ex-'11, has gone to San Antonio, Tex., to join the Pittsburg team at their spring training camp.

Dr. J. A. McLauchlin, '87, is head of the Department of Foreign Language at the Southwestern State Normal School, Weatherford, Okla.

H. S. Turner, '13, has been awarded the Hoge Fellowship for 1917-18. This is the highest honor given at Union Theological Seminary.

AMENDMENTS ADOPTED TO CONSTITUTION

Below are the amendments to the constitution of the student body with reference to the Recommendation Committee, and the point system. These amendments were passed on by the student body last week and formally became a part of the constitution:

ARTICLE 4

Section 1. A Recommendation Committee, to recommend candidates for offices in the student body, shall be composed of seven members: four Seniors, two Juniors, and one Sophomore. These men shall be elected from the membership of the student council by secret ballot of that body, the men getting the highest number of votes being elected. The Senior receiving the highest number of votes shall be chairman of the committee.

Sec. 2. This committee shall recommend to the student body four men to be nominated for the office of president of the student body; four men to be nominated for the office of first and second vice-presidents, and three men to be nominated for the office of secretary-treasurer.

Sec. 3. This committee shall recommend to each class the men to be elected by secret ballot, for the offices of student councilmen. It shall recommend eight Seniors, from whom five shall be elected; five Juniors, from whom three are to be elected; four from the Sophomore class, from whom two shall be elected.

Sec. 4. These men are to be recommended by the committee and not nominated. This ruling does not prevent any other nominations from the floor.

Sec. 5. In the recommendation committee simple majority shall rule.

Sec. 6. The recommendation committee shall be elected from the student council by the student council not later than October 1st of each year.

ARTICLE 5

Sec. 1. No student shall hold over nine (9) points at one time.

Sec. 2. There shall be a committee of one (1) appointed by the president of the student body from the student council at the beginning of every college year which shall keep a record of the number of points held by each man in the student body.

Sec. 3. The offices with their corresponding points are:

Student Body: President, 5; vice-president, 1; secretary-treasurer, 1; student council, 1; chairman audit board, 3.

Athletics: Captain, 1; manager football, 5; manager baseball, 5; assistant manager, 2; manager track, 3; manager tennis, 2; manager basketball, 4; cheer leader, 1.

Y. M. C. A.: President, 5; cabinet, 1.

Davidsonian: Editor, 5; business manager, 4; managing editor, 5; assignment editor, 3; circulation manager, 3; staff, 2.

Annual: Editor, 5; manager, 5; assistant manager, 2; staff, 2.

Magazine: Editor, 4; manager, 3; staff, 2.

Class: President, 1; secretary, 1; treasurer, 2; reviewer or critic, 1; marshal, 1; chief marshal, 2.

Debating Council: Member, 1.

Audit Board: Chairman, 3; chairman, 2.

“DON'TS.”

The following series of “Don'ts,” written by Prof. Franklin H. Giddings, of Columbia University, are copied from The Educational Review for February, 1917. These suggestions apply especially to upper classmen and graduate students:

1. Don’t say “between” when you mean “among.” Look up these words in the dictionary.

2. Don't say “consider” when you mean “regard” or “think” or “view.”

3. Don't say “co-ordinate” when you mean “correlate.”Look up these words in the dictionary. 

4. Don’t say “differentiate” when you mean “discriminate” or “distinguish from.” 
5. Don't say “due to” when you mean “attributable to” or “on account of” or perhaps something else. “Due to” is inaccurate and slovenly. 
6. Don't say “during” when you mean “in.” 
7. Don’t say “eventuate” when you mean “occur” or “happen.” 
8. Don’t say “motive” when you mean “move” or “force of motivation” when you mean “motive.” 
9. Don’t say “phenomena” (plural) when you mean “phenomenon” (singular). 
10. Don't forget that “none” is a contraction of “no one” and takes the verb “is,” not “are.” 
11. Don't say “people” when you mean “individuals” or “persons.” Neither fifty Kaisers nor fifty “wops” are fifty people. 
12. Don’t say “point of view” when you mean “view” or “opinion.” The phrase “point of view” is now and then both accurate and useful, but it should be employed sparingly. 
13. Don't say “sociological” when you mean “social” or “psychological” when you mean “mental” or “psychical,” or “biological” when you mean “organic” or “vital” or “physiological” when you mean “physical.” 
14. Don’t overwork “hence.” 
15. Don’t begin as many as ninety-five percent of your sentences with “thus.” 
16. Don't say “startling fact,” “downward path,” “step by step.” These phrases are the stigma of the exhorter. 
17. Don't say “I will” or “I would” when you mean “I shall” or “I should,” and don't say “you shall” or “you should” or “he shall” or “he should” when you mean “you will” or “you would,” or “he will” or “he would.” 
18. Don’t split infinitives. (To be continued)

TONGUE TWISTER. (Say quickly). 
If you stick a stick across a stick, 
Or cross a stick across a stick, 
Or stick a cross across a stick, 
Or stick a cross across a cross, 
Or cross a cross across a stick, 
Or cross a cross across a cross, 
Or stick a crossed stick across a stick, 
Or cross a crossed stick across a cross, 
Or stick a crossed stick across a crossed stick, 
Or cross a crossed stick across a stick. 

Literary Society: President, 1; sec- 

Stationery... Fountain... The Rexall Store 
Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists 
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. 
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. 
We want to serve you. 

WHITE DRUG CO. 
DAVIDSON COLLEGE 
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 
Thorough Courses 
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES 

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions. 

Yours truly, 
JETTON DRUG COMPANY 

The TATE-BROWN CO. 
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 
Society Brand Clothes 
Knapp-Felt Hats 
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS; Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery 

HOTEL STONEWALL — Charlotte, N. C. — 
HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C. 
HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N.C. 
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, - Fayetteville, N.C. 
HOTEL MORGAN, - Danville, Va. 
HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va. 
J. P. SANDERS, President 

United Motor Lines 
Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville 
We Cater to special trips for students 
L. G. Patterson, College Representative 

COLLEGE BASEBALL 1917 
SPALDING Base Ball Record 
Over 100 pages of pictures—records—reviews college notes—dual series—names of managers, captains, and coaches—schedules—in fact, everything that a player or a fan wants to know, with all usual features concerning the professional side for which this remarkable book is noted. Including a picture of the DAVIDSON team 
400 pages; 25 cents 
A. G. SPALDING & BROS. 
74 N. Broad St. 
ATLANTA, GA. 

The Commissary