2 SS The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board
Editor-in-Chief: Stone
Managing Editor: J. R. Woods
Assignment Editor: M. Thomas, Jr.
A. P. Saunders

Management
Business Manager: Thies, Jr.
Circulation Manager: C. Williamson
Assistant Managers: T. Maddrey, W. T. Johnson, R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff
Class of ’18—J. B. Woods, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Johnson, Jr., W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, T. E. Guy, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

TO THE UNDERGRADUATES.

I know you are thinking a great deal about next year and what you ought to do under the present unusual conditions. I do not wonder that you are somewhat perplexed. You want to “do your bit” for our country and for humanity. If you did not, you would not be a thorough and true American young man, and I am proud to say you would not be a true Davidsonian. Advice from me will come very naturally, will it not? But just for that reason I am going to give you the advice as given by others whom you will know speak from a wide experience, and a real knowledge of what is needed from the American people just now. They surely have the success of the war closely at heart.

First, let me tell you what President Hibben, of Princeton, has told his students. I copy from the New York Evening Post:

Citing a number of reasons why students may have decided to remain at their studies, such as age, physical disqualification, and the like, he deprecates a certain insidious form of silent pressure which is being brought to force these men to follow the crowd and enlist somewhere. Enlistment in order to avoid conscription he regards as reprehensible inasmuch as the system serves to prevent every man from facing the imputation of being a slacker. The line of least resistance is toward sacrificing everything and enlisting, says Dr. Hibben, but he holds a brief for the “real moral heroism,” which is required of those who for good and sufficient reasons adhere steadily to their present duties. “Let us,” he writes, “try to dignify the work of this university in time of war and have the moral courage to hold steadily to our present duties and plans.” With a long, hard war in prospect, everyone, he believes, will have the opportunity to do his bit and will better be able to meet whatever responsibilities may present themselves if he keeps his head now.

Next, a few words from an editorial from the same paper of May 26, 1917:

“It is not wise to lose sight of the fact that the country has a future as well as a present. Recovery from the ravages of the present war may be more speedy than any previous experience would lead the world to believe. That possibility, however, lies in the intelligent leadership of men so trained as to be able to apply the best results of modern research to the problems involved more generally and effectively than ever before... No American college should fail to realize that, as a college, it can render no higher service to the cause of the country and humanity than to be training them while the war is going on.

The DAVIDSONIAN May 30, 1917

“The regular work of all our colleges should be maintained with all possible vigor, and parents should be encouraged now more than ever to give their children the advantage of a college education.”

Next, the advice of Secretary Baker himself, when before a recent meeting of college heads, which I attended, he urged vigorously the necessity of keeping the colleges going in full efficiency. In the meeting of the Davidson Board of Trustees at the recent commencement, I heard read a letter from Secretary of the Navy Daniels in which he gave the advice to a father whose son, not yet twenty-one, wished to drop college and enlist in the Navy, to let all young men under age who are in college or expect to go to college, remain in their college or enter this fall. He considered this the best service such young men could at this time tender their country.

The education section of the Committee on Science, Engineering and Education of the Advisory Commission of the Council of National Safety, on May 6th requested that the following be emphasized to that commission: “That all young men below the age of liability to the selective draft and those not recommended for special service, who can avail themselves of the opportunities offered by our colleges, should be urged so to do in order that they may be able to render the most effective service, both during the full period of the war and in the trying times which will follow its close.”

Mr. Wilson, our President, is known to favor the uninterrupted service of the colleges and the attendance on them by increasing numbers of young men. In a letter to Mr. Lawrence Perry, of the Evening Post, he says he hopes that “the normal course of college sports will be continued, so far as possible, not to afford a diversion to the American people in the days to come, when we shall no doubt have our share of mental depression, but as a real contribution to the National defense, for our young men must be made physically fit in order that later they may take the place of those who are of military age and exhibit the vigor and alertness which we are proud to believe to be characteristic of our young men.”

If you are 20 years of age, register on June 5th, and if called, respond to the call and go to the colors. If not called, or you are under 21 years of age, come back to college and encourage young men of proper preparation and character to come with you.

With best wishes to you all for a useful and happy summer, I am,

Cordially yours,
Wm. J. Martin, President.

IMPORTANCE OF ALUMNI SUPPORT

During last session a questionnaire circulated among our students asking why they had come to Davidson College, disclosed the interesting fact that 42 percent of them had come through the influence ofalumni of the college. This fact means two things: First, that our alumni have a warm place in their hearts for their alma mater and wish to see her grow and prosper. Having got good from her themselves, they would like to see others enjoy the same privilege. Second, that the college depends to a large extent upon its former students for new men from year to year. Those in charge of directing the affairs of Davidson keenly appreciate the loyalty of the institution's alumni and ask, in this time of war and much uncertainty, that our friends give us their support and backing as never before. Prospects for the coming year are bright, but we would like for the next session to be the best in our history, and believe our alumni can do much to make it so. May we not count on you? We will.

TO HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES

The immediate future demands a large increase of college-trained men. The world will be short of trained leadership and you have the finest opportunity any generation ever had if you will only take the training. Enter college this fall by all means, and work hard and earnestly for the four years. If you succeed there, you will be in great demand. Read President Martin’s article to the undergraduates in this paper. It applies to you as well as to them. Davidson offers you every opportunity to take this training. Find a Davidson alumnus or student near you and talk it over, or write the office at Davidson. Make your arrangements early and let us all meet at the college in September next, ready to do our part in preparation to help serve our country and do our part as educated men in constructive work after the war.

MISS SHAW IS A MOST VALUABLE FRIEND TO THE COLLEGE

Davidson does not have a truer nor more faithful friend than her Librarian and Registrar, Miss Cornelia Shaw. She works indefatigably for the best interests of the college and the students. Without her, the college and its atmosphere and its influence would certainly not be what it is. Her work is many-fold. No one works harder. Doubtless no one in this position could accomplish more. She is a constructive builder—constantly finding threads and bits of history which are not known and is correlating them and putting them on record. No one takes more interest in aiding college activities. The Davidsonian is greatly indebted to her for material and valuable suggestions which she is sending. Not only this, but the student does not have a better nor more interested friend. All she has to do is to see a student’s name on his matriculation card, and then when he enters the Library again he is surprised to hear her calling him by name. Her gifts in this regard are wonderful. At an instant’s notice, she can get any clipping on file in Union Library. Junior and Senior Speaking would hardly be possible if she did not furnish her aid. Commencement would not be so attractive if her initiative did not plan for it. These are what she does do. One thing she does not do, is to let a student enter the library without his coat. To Miss Shaw alone is due the credit for one of the best-kept college libraries. As counsellor and friend to the student body, she has no peer. Her influence is inestimable.

HONORARY DEGREES CONFERRED

Davidson College this year bestowed two honorary degrees. One to Prof. W. A. Withers, A.B., M.A. Davidson, and student at Cornell, Professor of Chemistry for a number of years in the A. & M. College of North Carolina, and for the past year vice-president of that institution. Professor Withers has been an active and noteworthy worker in the field of applied chemistry, and has attracted especial attention by his excellent work on the toxic properties of cottonseed meal. Professor Withers was awarded the degree of Doctor of Science. Prof. W. G. Perry, A.B., M.A. Davidson, Associate Professor of English in Georgia School of Technology for some years past, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Literature. Professor Perry was valedictorian of his class at Davidson, and especially marked as a student of fine literary taste and ability. He has written articles for the North American Review, and other papers, and is the author of some quite striking verse.

ORATORS’ AND BIBLE MEDALS AWARDED

At the close of the exercises Tuesday morning, the Junior and Senior Orators’ Medals and the Banks Biblical Medal were awarded. The winner of the Senior Orators’ Medal was W. H. Neal, who spoke on “The International Mind.” J. L. Fowle, with the subject, “The Negro,” won the Junior Orators’ Medal, and H. A. Campbell the Biblical Medal.

President Martin—The Faculty will do its very best work next year. They will be more efficient.

Dr. W. L. Lingle—This is the best college year, taking all in all, that the college ever knew.