THEDAVIDSONIAN

Vol. V.

Davidson Holds Wofford Scoreless

Program For Senior Speaking Is Completed

Red and Black Piles Up Another Large Score.

Davidson won a very one-sided but interesting game on Sprunt Field Thursday, victimizing the Wofford Terriers 62 to 0. The visitors could do nothing with the Davidson line and the repeated forward passes from Spann soon got them all up in the air. After the first ten minutes, there was no doubt as to the outcome of the game. It was only a question of how large a score Davidson would roll up and a question as to whether Wofford would score at all. Wofford did her best work in the third quarter and worked the ball within striking distance of the goal but failed in the final drive. The work of Ellerbe, Carmichael, Burnett, and Keaton was consistent and hard. For Davidson, the feature plays were a 35-yard run by J. McAlister, the line smashing of Burns, the work around ends of Flowers, and the Spann-King combination for forward passes, ranging from one to 40 yards. The kicking of Grey was hard to beat; eight goals from touchdown were charged up to him. His kick-offs averaged 57 yards.

The game in detail:

FIRST QUARTER.

Davidson receives at north end of field. Ellerbe kicked off 40 yards to Romefelt, who returned 22 yards. Flowers hit left tackle for 4 yards. G. Crouch repeated over right tackle for 6 yards and first down. Burns added 2 yards through center, but Davidson was called back and penalized 15 yards. Burns failed to gain through center. Crouch failed over left guard. Flowers ran 12 yards out of bounds. Wofford’s ball on own 30-yard line. Ellerbe punted 36 yards out of bounds. Davidson's ball on Wofford’s own 35-yard line.

(Continued on page 5)

This Year.

Friday, Nov. 30—3:00 p.m., Speaking.
Friday, Nov. 30—7:30 p.m., Speaking.
Saturday, Dec. 1—10:30 a.m., Speaking.
Saturday, Dec. 1—12:30 p.m., Speaking.
Saturday, Dec. 1—5:00 p.m., Basketball game between Varsity and Class Champions.
Saturday, Dec. 1—8:00 p.m., Concert by Glee Club.
Saturday, Dec. 1—10:00 p.m., Fraternity Reception.

Classes will be held as usual on Friday, Seniors being excused after 11 a.m. There will be no classes on Saturday, but chapel will be held as usual.

This week marks the time when the grave and reverend Seniors shall march forth and expatiate to the waiting world on the great affairs of life. It marks the time when the accumulation of four years of study and meditation shall bear rich fruit in the outbursts of eloquence and in the flights of oratory. About a score of the addresses will deal with the war, thus enabling us to fully comprehend the causes, the probable results, and no doubt the horrors too will be brought close home to us. Yet it is not alone the war that furnishes themes for the speakers. Some are going to tell us how to live, and others how to die; some are going to delve in the past; some are going to peer into the future. To interpret the past, to explain the present, and to forecast the future lies within the scope of the Senior speakers.

There will be no faculty reception this year, the money for this cause being donated to the Army Work for the Y. M. C. A.

DAVIDSON TO DEBATE LAFAYETTE COLLEGE

At a meeting of the Debating Council held last Saturday, it was decided to accept the offer of Lafayette College, of Easton, Pa., for an intercollegiate debate to be held in March. This contest will probably be held on the Hill or in Charlotte, though this and other details have not as yet been settled. Lafayette is one of the leading colleges of Pennsylvania and the North, an institution of about the same size and caliber of Davidson. Her athletic teams and debating teams both have excellent records, and Davidson is fortunate in closing this debate with her. The local Council is in correspondence with several Southern institutions for the second debate of the year, and this will be settled within the next few days.

Until a man has found something worth dying for he has found nothing worth living for—Dr. Frank Crane.

Democracy means, first of all, that we can govern ourselves—Woodrow Wilson.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 28, 1917.

Fresh and Juniors To Play For Title

No. 12 Turkey Day Contest With Clemson Tigers

Winner of Class Championship To Play Varsity. The Seniors were defeated ina fast game by the Sophomores Monday night. They will trot out November 19, by a score of 21 to 12. The highest scores were made by Chalmers and Brinkley for the Sophomores, and Hawkins and McDonald for the Seniors.

SOPHS. POSITION. SENIORS.
Hines (2) .......... Hawkins (3) Right Forward
Chalmers (5) ...... L. M. Currie (0) Left Forward
McDonald (3) Center
J. B. Woods Right Guard
Brinkley (2) Left Guard

Foul goals: Chalmers, 3. Substitutions: Brown for Craig; Bellingrath for Currie. Referee, Potts.

FRESH-JUNIOR.
In excitement, enthusiasm, and spectacular playing, the Junior-Fresh game on November 29 proved to be paramount. The game was full of thrills and not until the final whistle was the score known, and then it was a tie, 24 to 24. The guarding of Schenck and the goal-throwing of Woods were largely responsible for the success of their respective teams.

JUNIOR. POSITION. FRESH.
Alexander (0) ...... Collins (4) Right Forward
Cunningham (1) ...... McCachren (4) Left Forward
McAskill (2) ...... Knight (0) Center
Craig (0) ...... Mebane Cox (3) Right Guard
Davenport (4) Left Guard
Carter (10) Schenck (0)

Substitutions: Potts (C) for Cunningham. Fouls: Alexander (2), Cox (2). Final score: Juniors, 24; Fresh, 24. Referee, Hengeveld.

FRESH-SOPH.
The Freshmen defeated the Sophomores in a hard-fought game Thursday night, November 22, by a score of 30 to 24. The individual stars were Cox for the Fresh, and Chalmers for the Sophs.

SOPHS. POSITION. FRESH.
Hines (4) ...... McCachren (3) Right Forward
Chalmers (2) ...... Collins (2) Left Forward
Knight (0) ...... Cox (8) Center
Brinkley (1) ...... Schenck Right Guard
W. M. Hall (1) ...... W. D. Carter Left Guard

Foul goals: McCachren (1), Cox (1), Chalmers (1). Substitutions: Hinds for Knight; Craig (1) for Knight. Referee, Hengeveld.

JUNIOR-SENIOR.
The teamwork of the Juniors again defeated the Seniors last Saturday night by the score of 29 to 16. The first half was fast and exciting, the score at the end being Juniors 14, Seniors 12, although the second half was rather one-sided. The playing of Hawkins and Mebane.

(Continued on page 6)

Game of Season.
The squad that Coach “Jiggs” Dono on Wearn Field Thanksgiving Day will probably line up as follows: Thackston and Colbert, ends; Potts and Connor, tackles; Gilmer, Bates, or Paget, guards; Gee, center; Witsell, quarterback; Bartles and Armstrong, halves; Banks, fullback. These are the Clemson “Tigers” who will be out to even up for the defeat Davidson handed out to them last year to the tune of 33 to 0. Clemson's record this year is marred only by the 7-0 game lost to Auburn. Citadel, Florida, Furman, Wofford, South Carolina, and Presbyterian College all went down before the steady work of the Tigers. According to all the dope, Davidson should win handily, but she is liable to encounter trouble, especially with the Clemson backfield. Witsell as a field general is usually able to handle his team to the best advantage and is a good ground gainer alone. Bartles and Armstrong have been showing up well, while the line plunging of Banks has usually come across with the required gains in the pinches. The Clemson line is without doubt a good one. With such forwards and such a backfield, the Tiger machine will give a good account of itself. Against this aggregation, Davidson will match the best line in North Carolina, the Spann Flowers-Burns and King combination and Coach Bill. We'll match our coach against any of them. When the whistle blows, Davidson will answer “Present”—very much. Clemson will have to do her best—and then some. Since Davidson and Clemson have been meeting on the gridiron, Clemson has won three contests, Davidson three, and three have been tied. The scores for the nine games are as follows:

1900—Clemson, 65; Davidson, 0.
1906—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1907—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 10.
1908—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 13.
1909—Clemson, 17; Davidson, 5.
1913—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 3.
1914—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1915—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 6.
1916—Clemson, 9; Davidson, 33.

Totals—Clemson, 100; Davidson, 70. Watch that difference in totals lessen!

RECEPTION AT QUEENS.
The students of Davidson were delighted to receive an invitation from the student body of Queens College to their annual reception, to be given Thanksgiving night from 8 to 11. The two colleges that meet Thursday afternoon in a friendly but competitive combat on Wearn Field are expected to meet again that night at Queens College to be entertained by the young ladies of that institution. Those of the students who are going, anticipate the occasion with much pleasure.

I want to utter my earnest protest against any manifestation of the spirit of lawlessness anywhere or in any cause.—Woodrow Wilson.