The DAVIDSONIAN, September 26, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, September 29: Resolved, "That the use of grain products in the manufacture of intoxicating liquors should be prohibited in the United States during the period of the war."

Eumenean—Affirmative: Thomas. Negative: Love.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Clark, W. F. Hall. Negative: Hill, Foscue, and H. W. Lilly.

Oration: R. D. Hall. Declamation: D. W. Roberts.

The Eumenean Literary Society held its first meeting last Saturday evening at 7:15. This being the first meeting of the year, a full program was not carried out. The subject for debate was: "Resolved, That negro troops should be trained in the South." The affirmative was upheld by R. L. Liston and S. T. Met, the negative by A. S. Potts and E. A. Woods. The main points in the argument of the affirmative were that the negro is better suited to the Southern climate; that the Southern whites are his friends, while the Northerners do not know the negro and consequently cannot tolerate him. The negative contended that the social prejudice of the Southern white man against the negro will not tolerate the presence of thousands of arrogant negro troops in our Southern cities. The first speeches were good and showed the results of thorough preparation. The rebuttals were spirited on both sides.

Owing to the change to six class days a week, a motion was made that only one meeting be held each week. This motion was tabled until the next meeting. It was announced that the Freshman Society would hold its first meeting Monday evening, September 24. Quite a number of the Freshmen have signified their intention of joining this society.

The first meeting of the Phi Society was held last Saturday night. The question for debate was: Resolved, that negro troops should be trained in the South. A lively and witty debate ensued, in which the negative won. Alexander, Davis, and Hunter, for the affirmative, showed that the negro should be trained in the South because of (1) climatic conditions; (2) economic conditions; (3) and his adaptability to learn more quickly in the South. Calhoun, McClure, and Currie, for the negative, showed (1) that the negro would have a demoralizing effect upon the South; (2) the enmity of the Southerners towards them; and (3) that Porto Rico should be the place instead of the South.

W. C. Neal gave an interesting oration on "Why America Declared War on Germans," while M. A. Siske gave a very original as well as a witty talk on "What Can Literature Do for Me." G. McDonald was elected the janitor for the coming year. The president announced that the marshals for this year would be elected on October 6.

Byrd and Tremain. Berry—"Yes, I'se registered all right, and I'se already conscripted." "What you gonna join, de infantry or de cavalry?" "No cavalry for me. I'se goin' in dat infantry. When de General sound de word 'Retreat,' dis nigger don' wan' to be bothered with no hoss."—Ex.

"So your wife wants alimony," we remarked to our Chinese laundryman. "Yep," said John; "allee money me gottee."—Ex.

A LETTER TO STUDENTS FROM A. P. SAUNDERS

A. P. Saunders, '18, who was elected president of the student body for this year, suffered a very serious fracture of the leg while in the mountains of North Carolina during the early part of the summer. He was taken to the Biltmore Hospital at Biltmore, N. C., and after eight weeks or more of varying degrees of pain, he was moved to St. Luke's Hospital, Richmond, Va. He had hoped to be here at the opening, as appears in his letter, but the injury did not...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

improve as had been expected. It must have been a great disappointment not to have been here at the opening, but he shows his splendid spirit in the following letter:

(Very) “Base” Hospital, Biltmore, N. C., Aug. 27, 1907.

Gentlemen: I am glad of a chance to say hello! to the old and new boys. As most of you know, I was pretty well broken up by a fall early in the summer, without having the satisfaction of feeling that I was doing something for my country. Peace is sometimes as bad as war, as several of our leader statesmen have set forth. Have lain in one position with “limb” suspended for seven weeks today, with varying degrees of pain to remind me that I am still here. However, I should not worry, for I am on a par with you all, as we are all looking forward to the opening of college on the 12th. You don't know how much you really appreciate Davidson until you feel that there is a chance of your not getting back. It should be a great year for us, and we who may return are indeed fortunate. Here's hoping we have a bigger Fresh class than ever. Looking forward with more pleasure than you can imagine to seeing you all on the 12th, although I may myself have to come on a cot. With best wishes to all.

Yours very sincerely, Perry SAUNDERS.

Teacher—"How many kinds of poetry are there?” Pupil—"Three.” Teacher—“What are they?” Pupil—“Lyric, dramatic and epidemic.” Life.

An English militant crusader strolled into a barn when a young man was milking a cow. “How is it that you are not at the front, young man?” “Because, ma'am,” answered the milker, “there ain't no milk at that end."—Ex.

An alien who wished to become a citizen received a blank from the naturalization clerk. It began: Name? Born? Business? When handed back by the applicant (so says Harper's Magazine), the blank was filled out thus: “Name, Jacob Levinsky. Born, Yes. Business, Rotten.”

It’s Fine LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or anything that lies want Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Faculty Students Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BASE BALL Get into the Game Aside from the pleasure of the sport, it’s good exercise. You play your best all the time, and that is possible when you use Spalding Equipment. Because our Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls and all the rest are as good as man can make. With our forty-odd years in the business we feel that we have an advantage over all others. South Tryon St. Our catalogue is convincing. It’s yours for the asking. A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

The Commissary LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-J

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Rutledge Norton Tafe’s Barber Shop Next door to Post Office. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

The Wallace-Brough Co. Announce Their Fall Millinery Opening for Next Friday Night and Saturday of September 28th - 29th

Save your Shoe Repair Work SHU-FIXERY CHARLOTTE, N. C. O. C. Williamson, Agent Power House

A Nice Line of Pennants BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

W. M. Torrence The Jeweler Watches and Alarm Clocks

SPORTING GOODS and ATHLETIC CLOTHING The Line That You Can Depend on ABSOLUTELY Backed by an Unconditional Guarantee

---