News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People

Mrs. Albert Gaither, of Newton, the mother of W. C. Gaither, ‘21, spent Friday with her son.

Dr. F. H. Gaines, president of Agnes Scott College, was the weekend guest of Dr. Arbuckle. He occupied Dr. Richards’ pulpit Sunday morning.

Miss Catherine Worth, of Converse College, was at home during the weekend.

Mrs. Worth and daughters, who intended visiting D. G. Worth, ex-'18, at Fort Oglethorpe last week, did not get to do so because he had to go on a hike at that time.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Jackson last Friday evening. Mrs. C. L. Grey read the paper of the evening. Several new members were elected.

Among those of the faculty who went down to Charlotte Saturday to the game were: Dr. and Mrs. Martin, Professor and Mrs. Reed, Professor and Mrs. Currie, Drs. Sentelle, Fulton, and McConnell, and Professor Overcash.

Mrs. Long and little daughter have been the guests of Mrs. Paisley.

The Primary Department of the Sunday School entertained Miss Sarah Wooten last week, who is to be married November 14, at the home of Mrs. C. L. Grey, and presented her with a cut-glass bowl.

Dr. Martin left Monday for the North Carolina Synod, which meets at Fayetteville.

The Ladies’ Missionary Society will meet Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock at the church.

The Senior Epworth League will give a Halloween party at the parsonage Wednesday night.

The local Methodist Church is now closing up this year’s work as Conference convenes the 15th of November.

Among those who attended the funeral of Mrs. Campbell were her sister, Mrs. Black; her brother, Mr. Muse; also Mr. McKeethan, Mrs. Ray, Miss Muse, and Miss Jessie McNeill.

GOVERNOR BICKETT (Continued from page 1)

The United States for two and one-half years, under the most trying circumstances, maintained a perfect neutrality toward the warring nations. Her long-abused patience was soothed by the German note after the Sussex affair in 1916. But when in 1917 Germany announced to the United States that she intended to treat this solemn promise as she had her treaty with Belgium, this country was forced to accept the challenge of war or lose its respect among all nations.

Again, America entered the war through gratitude to French aid during the Revolutionary War. To France, our very existence as a nation is due; for when Washington's army was half-clothed, unpaid, and broken in morale and ready to give up the fight, French money and troops came to his aid. At Yorktown, French troops numbered more than half of his army. That people was approaching the limits of its resources in its gallant struggle and was turning wistful eyes toward the West for assistance, when America responded, represented by General Pershing, when he said in Paris before Lafayette’s tomb, “Lafayette, we are here!”

America entered the war because it was inevitable, and she preferred to fight while there were France and England to aid her. In 1892 Wilhelm II said that the purpose of the Imperial Government was to Germanize the world. He had a map made to the same effect, with England, France, the United States, and Canada mapped in red as German provinces. Our War Department has many facts proving that Germany intended warring with America after she had finished with England and France.

Again, America entered the war to be a factor in determining the course of the world after this war. Governor Bickett said, “This war is going to determine the kind of world men are going to live in for the next thousand years.” All forms and creeds of government are being cast into the war and the resultant form of government will rule the world for a thousand years. Hence, if American ideals are to play a part in the future form of government, they too must be cast into the crucible. America has throwninto the melting-pot her ideal of government—“A Christianized Democracy of Reason and Righteousness.” In speaking of how the man in college can help his country, Governor Rickett said, “It behooves the young men who are not ready to fight, to go and prepare for the hour when the victory comes.” This hour for a young man in college to fail to work, he continued, “is as cowardly as to run from war.” Governor Bickett closed with an ardent appeal to college men to purchase Liberty Loan Bonds. Speaking of the necessity of aiding the Government in this way he said, “No man, no family, no nation can have eternal life, unless there is present the capacity when the hour comes to sacrifice all the pleasures and profits of today upon the altar of a greater tomorrow.”

The following telegrams were received and read to the student body by President Martin:

“D. C. men at Officers’ Training Camp, Fort Oglethorpe, send congratulations to their Alma Mater on Davidson College day. Twenty-five strong in heart we join with you in your holiday and celebration of the event which it commemorates, “D. C. Devotees.”

“Davidson men of Union Seminary meeting tonight send congratulations on the continued and consistent progress and development of Davidson. We are expecting this session, in spite of war conditions, under the blessing of God, to mark growth in influence, usefulness and efficiency even greater than in previous years. “W. A. McIlwaine, “Chairman of Committee.”

“Heartiest greetings and congratulations. “Student Body of Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N.C.”

“Very best wishes from Davidson Alumni at Camp Jackson. “Officers and Enlisted Alumni.”

“My very best wishes for all connected with Davidson College. “James C. Harper. “Camp Jackson.”

“Best wishes for continuance of career of Christian education and service. “Student Body Converse College.”

Some 200 Lettuce Plants, 35c. a hundred. 200 cans in all, of Beans, Peaches, Tomatoes. A few handsome Ferns, and empty Flower Pots. Large and small Green Tomatoes for packing and pickling. MRS. JNO. H. REID PHONE 92-3

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Carolina You are cordially invited to inspect our premises Chero-Cola Bottling Company 10 N. Church St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Faculty Students Stand Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers 17 Years at the Same Place