4 [ With the Alumni | Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, ’84, who has for several years been filling the Poe Chair of English at the University of Virginia, has accepted the English Professorship at the United States Naval Academy, in Annapolis, Md. Dr. Smith has become prominent in the literary world through a number of his writings, the latest of which is a book bearing the title “O. Henry, A Biography.” Much favorable comment has been caused by the book and it is being extensively reviewed in the literary magazines.

A matter of interest to their many friends is the announcement that Lieut. A. L. James, '06, is to be married to Miss Viola Burden, at Hollywood, Cal., on the 28th inst.

Howard A. Banks, '88, who for the past four years has served as Private Secretary to Secretary of the Navy Daniels, has resigned to accept the editorship of The Sunday School Times. While in college Mr. Banks was editor of the Davidson Monthly and Essay medalist in his graduating year.

J. E. Faw, ‘15, who has been with the American Telegraph and Telegraph Co. for some time, has been promoted to the position of division accountant, after completing special work in New York and Chicago. “Enoch’s” headquarters are now 1422 Hurt Bldg. Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. J. M. Clark, '86, who is leading the week’s services at the local Presbyterian Church, is Superintendent of Home Missions for Concord Presbytery.

Mr. J. R. McNeill, class '16, an expert chemist, is at Niagara Falls, N. Y., helping to make ammunition for the Allies.

Mr. R. P. Blake, of Greenwood, S. C., is having a portrait painted of Prof. John Rennie Blake, a teacher in Davidson College from the year 1861 until his retirement in 1885. Professor Blake, during his stay here, taught Chemistry and Geology, but, in the main, gave his time to Physics and Astronomy. He was chairman of the Faculty from 1871 to 1877, and Vice-president from 1879 to 1884. Professor Blake is known to a host of the older alumni, who held him in the highest esteem, and remember both him and his wife with the greatest affection. During the years of the war, and after, which were among the hardest of the institution, Professor Blake was second to none in his self-sacrificing zeal and earnest labors in keeping the college from having to close its doors.

Professor Blake died some years ago at his home in Greenwood, and within the last few months his wife died also.

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 21, 1917

INTERESTING LECTURES (Continued from page 1)

SECOND LECTURE.

In his second lecture Mr. Connor spoke of the two elements coming into North Carolina’s civilization from 1735 to 1775, the German and Scotch-Irish, flowing parallel from Pennsylvania, and settling in Piedmont and Western North Carolina. The term “Scotch-Irish” is a misnomer, and is a geographical rather than a racial term. They were a people with a great vigor of intellect, a strong tenacity which never slackened, and a determination which never wavered. They also possessed an intense earnestness of religion, a love of democracy, and a great interest in education. They possessed the essential qualities for life on the Carolina frontiers. Their contribution to the development of North Carolina was the idea of separation of Church and State, the establishment of public schools, and the division of our branches of government. The speaker pointed out the founding of Davidson College as having been accomplished by these people.

THE GERMAN ELEMENT.

These people came into North Carolina from 1740 to 1775, seeking good hunting grounds, cheap lands and religious freedom. They knew little of politics and their minds were directed toward affairs of industry and commerce. The spirit of communism was characteristic of them. The founding of Wachovia and Salem, and the early life of these settlers was discussed in a most interesting manner. Their contribution was industrial, and the speaker referred to the great number of their descendants at the present time as the leading manufacturers of this State. They were the most conservative force in our State's history, and had a steadying effect.in its development.

MR. GRIER SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. MEETING

Last Thursday evening Rev. J. W. Grier, of Huntersville, made a splendid address before the Y. M. C. A. on the subject, “Testing My Christianity.” He began by saying that there is to be found no place in the Bible where the statement is made that our trials and testings will be over as soon as we come to Christ, or that the Christian life is one of ease. On the other hand, it does state that God chasteneth those whom He loveth, and although the Christian life is freer, grander, and happier than that of the world, trials and hardships accompany it also.

The next point discussed was the reason for the testing of our Christianity. Its purpose, as outlined by the speaker, is to impress upon the Christian the lessons which he has learned, just as a review or examination is said to impress upon students those things which they have learned. Furthermore, man’s character is developed by years of living and working. As a sculptor chisels some great statue out of the slab of marble, so does God chisel out of man that beautiful figure—a strong character. God’s chiselings are the hardships, reverses, and obstacles which confront the Christian. They are to strengthen, not to overthrow; they are to teach us to see and realize the love of God, not to make us hate this life. This process of chiseling is not a pleasant one to the child of God, but it may seem infinitely lighter if we look forward toward the life which is to come and have faith that we are being transformed into the image of Christ.

“He's a clever photographer.”
“Makes pictures of people as they look, I presume.”
“Cleverer than that. He makes them as they think they look.”—Detroit Free Press.

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the right way. Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful, and obliging manner is always proffered you.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery

HOTEL STONEWALL
—Charlotte, N.C.—
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL BUFFINE, - - Greensboro, N. C.

Davidson Pressing Club
J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines
Regular Lines Between Charlotte and Statesville
We cater to special trips for students
L. S. Patterson, College Representative

6 Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00
DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY
ALL WORK GUARANTEED

Defy Jack Frost with his Spalding Sweater
Big, warm, and comfortable, with a high storm collar that covers the ears when turned up. Good weight, best quality worsted, with a pocket on each side.
Price - $8.50
Others, of course—send for our catalogue

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.