2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames. ...... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Wood
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The reporters for this issue are:
G. F. Webber, E. A. Woods, K. P. Coachman, E. R. Boney, D. M. Chalmers, A. R. Craig, D. M. Orgain, W. B. Sullivan, D. R. Freeman, J. B. Woods, J. M. McLerkin, R. W. Robinson, L. H. Fikel, R. C. Jones, T. C. Stone, H. T. Lilly, G. C. Bellingrath.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr. Assistant Managers
G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

There is evidently some foundation to the report that a tank will be set up here.

Man’s greatest blessing is opportunity; man’s greatest sin is neglected opportunity.

There were only fifteen men glad to see the Spring term begin. They stayed here during the holidays.

What everybody says: “O, I could have made the Honor Roll, too, if I had only tried.”

Greenland and the Social Center are alike in not expressing the real conditions.

The days are cold and dark and dreary
It sleets and the wind is never weary;
On the campus once so fair,
Naught is green but the Freshmen there.

Which is the worse off: the man who made a New Year's resolution and broke it, or the man who did not make any?

Is there such a thing as Davidson Luck (i.e., hard luck)? If not, D. C. should have had the State championship in football, basketball, and baseball.

DEBATING.
“Reading maketh a full man.”
“Writing maketh an exact man.”
“Speaking maketh a ready man.”

Depth, exactness, and a ready tongue are qualifications which are at a big premium. All three of these may be gained by work on debates. The experience gained in that line is invaluable. Anyone who can think when on his feet facing an audience and has the gift of smooth speech can go far. Nothing enables an ambitious man to do this like practice in public speaking.

In this issue of the Red and Black, the Debating Council announces the debates for the year with the dates at which papers must be in and the time for the preliminary contest. All those who are in any way interested in such things should make a note of the various details concerning the contests they are eligible for and start to work. The time is shorter than usual so data should be collected at once.

The opportunities offered in the line of forensic work are unusual. Everybody eligible owes it to themselves to make a try at least. Success means honors and power. You, like the rest of us, are here for an education. This means an increase in knowledge and improved carriage and manners and if possible the acquisition of that ease of manner and polish which distinguishes the educated man. Public speaking helps give you all these things. Therefore, the debates and attendance in the literary societies are necessary. It's worthwhile. Take an interest in it. Put something in. Everything lies before you. Make your college career a broadening influence instead of using it as a means of confining the mind to one channel. Breadth of view is necessary and the above-mentioned phases of college life tend to that end. Put something in and you will get something out. But put your work in so the mind will be equally developed. Learn to speak with the silver tongue of an orator and the world lies at your feet. Begin to learn now.—Ex.

PEACE CONTEST HELD.
The annual local Peace Contest was held Tuesday night, December 12th, in Shearer Hall. The object was to choose Davidson's representative in the State Contest to be held this Spring, when representatives of the various colleges of the State will compete for a purse of seventy-five dollars as first prize and fifty dollars as second prize, for the best oration dealing with peace and war. Ten men entered the local contest andThe judges, Dr. Harding, Dr. Arbuckle, and Professor Reed, decided on W. H. Neal, '17, as the winner. His subject was “The International Mind.” W. A. Thames, '18, with the subject, “The Silver Lining,” was chosen alternate. The other speakers were L. H. Fikel, R. H. Ratchford, I. W. Mann, G. C. Bellingrath, I. R. Woods, G. F. Weber, and J. B. Mallard. The exact date for the State Contest has not been definitely determined, but it will be held in Raleigh in March or April.

PROGRAM ARRANGED FOR BOOK LOVER'S CLUB

The Book Lover’s Club will meet on the 10th of this month at the home of Mrs. Lola Johnston, while Mrs. Richards has charge of the program. This meeting will be a continuation of the one that just preceded, and is in accordance with the policy the club adopted at the beginning of the season, the study of Tolstoi and various short stories. The program arranged is as follows: Stories of Emotion and Pathos (continued); “The Charm That Is Barrie” (The Century); other stories by Ambrose Bierce, Bret Harte.

STEELE CREEK CLUB HAS OYSTER SUPPER

During the holidays, on December 29th, the Steele Creek Club gave a delightful oyster supper at the home of C. G. Brown, '20, which was enjoyed by all the members of the club and their fair guests. The dining room was decorated in the Davidson colors, and during the evening some of the college songs and yells were given. The supper was tempting, and with the other entertaining features, a most enjoyable evening was spent by all present.

CHRISTMAS AT DAVIDSON

During the holidays about fifteen boys remained on the Hill and despite the fact that they were away from home, all seemed to have a very enjoyable time. On the night of the 23rd, the boys attended a Christmas tree at Shearer Hall, and all got a full stocking. One of the boys acted as Santa Claus. Christmas day was very quiet. Sometimes the boys would go out kodaking while at other times they read quite a bit and played games, such as rook and checkers. Occasionally some of the boys would leave the Hill for a few days. The weather was very unfavorable, and basketball was practically the only sport indulged in. Most every afternoon the boys would go out. Two games were played with the town boys in which the college boys lost the first, 12 to 16, but won the second, 11 to 10. Both games were played at night and were well attended. A few parties given by the young ladies of the town were enjoyed very much. On New Year's night the boys gave a masquerade party to the young ladies at the Social Center. About sixty attended and the party was chaperoned by Dr. and Mrs. Fulton. Among the old students re-entering college for the Spring term are R. A. Dean, P. G. Sutton, and L. M. Johnston, all formerly of '19. Mrs. Long, with son and daughter, of Winston-Salem, N. C., spent Sunday with her son, C. H. Long, '20.

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

FORM FIT ARROW COLLARS are curve cut to fit the shoulders perfectly. 15¢ each. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.

By their FRUITS ye shall know them---says the Good Book. We sell the Freshest, Ripest Fruits to be had.

Kodak Developing CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N. C. L. H. Patterson, - - Representative 33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

A New Line of College Jewelry Davidson Fobs, Belts, Pins, Etc. Torrence's Jewelry Shop

GENTLEMEN: We are here to serve you. Come in. We are always glad to see you. L.A.ELLIOTT Sanitary Barber Shop

Something good to eat all the time

SOUTHERN RAILWAY Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips The Southern Serves the South R. B. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt. 22 South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

E. R. Jenks, Proprietor

Holeproof Hosiery “Red Ball” Overshoes General Merchandise Schloss Clothing BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats Fruits and Candies FANCY GROCERIES