The DAVIDSONIAN
September 19, 1917

FORUM

THE LITERARY SOCIETIES.

If you just want a definition of what public speaking is, go to some good textbook on the subject and
perhaps you will find the following definition: “It is the art of clearly conveying your thoughts to an audience.” Some
think it consists in a flowery display of words or a burst of eloquence that will take the audience by
storm. A certain businessman struck the heart of the matter when he said: “It isn’t oratory I want, but just
the ability to get up and say what I think when things are being discussed.” That is the sort of
training the literary societies are endeavoring to give at Davidson. The day of the bombastic type of speaking is relegated
to the past. This is well illustrated when someone in the literary society attempts to “pull off” extraneous matter that
is several leagues from the subject and yet sounds good and loud. He is usually applauded by a low whistle
of surprise or a call for the dictionary. The speaker who presents the actual material on the subject is the
one who commands your attention during the debate. One listens almost instinctively to such a speech because so few of
that kind are heard on the floors of the society halls. This is not a necessary state of affairs, but
frequently is the case. Neither is it an indictment against these organizations. There is no use in fault-finding unless a
remedy can be suggested. At least two methods of improvement are here suggested that might be noted by those interested
in society work.

The first is a more consistent study of definite themes. If an oration is to be delivered then let that
subject possess the mind for at least a short time. Alexander Stevens said that when he had once decided on
the subject of his speech, he would lay it on his desk directly before him and then force himself to
become obsessed with the topic from the time of his decision until the time of the delivery of his speech.
When the speech was delivered men called him a genius but really the credit was due elsewhere. Of course, sometimes
men’s minds are engaged so exclusively by one subject that the inevitable result—insanity follows. A state of morbidness then exists.
This danger is however rarely encountered by the average worker in the literary societies at Davidson. He goes to the
other extreme and never lets anything obsess his mind, and hence when he gets up to speak the audience is
expected to give ear to a flimsy jumble of words that grates on the nervous system. A cry from the
audience of a word beginning with b and ending with ll truly expresses what has been said. Such speaking is
a disgrace and perhaps is the main factor that brings public speaking into disrepute in the eyes of certain men
on the campus. Let every man put a definite amount of concentrated study on every speech he attempts to deliver.
It is better to spend thirty minutes in real hard consistent work on a theme than to spend thirty days
thinking only in general terms of the question in hand.

The second method is a closer study of human nature. At first thought this seems rather vague and indefinite. Human
nature that the speaker has to deal mainly with is his audience. The direct way in which this can be
done is for the speaker to picture himself, as nearly as his imagination will allow, as a member of his
audience. The speaker who weighs the effect his words will have on his audience has the secret of commanding attention
from his hearers. The evangelist who knows what would appeal to him as a hardened sinner, and the businessman who
can make a proposition sound reasonable to the most conservative of his class have a knowledge of human nature that
is an invaluable aid to the speaker. The literary societies are splendid laboratories for putting such principles into practice and
watching the results. Their imperfections are many, but their merits can be easily found by the man who is really
willing to do a little extra work. Use a few hours of your loafing time and test it out.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina

The College PRINTERS

If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it

R. W. Coatsar.

GILBERT & PATTERSON
AT THE COMMISSARY FOR FRESHMEN ONLY
Are Our Representatives at the College

It used to be that Freshmen were encouraged to sing solos (generally appropriating the words of the laundry list to
sing) and sing these words to the tune of the “Hickory stick,” although pine boards were frequently used, too. However,
there are no such drastic incentives now, and the nearest approach to it is the Faculty Supervision Committee, of which
some Freshmen, and some upperclassmen, arrive almost at the state of charter membership. But there are noble incentives to high
standing in the Freshman class: there is the satisfaction of feeling that you can look back on duty well done;
if honor appeals to you the honor roll offers what you want; it means more to have your name on
the honor roll than to say, “I could have made it too, if I had tried.” Better it is to
try hard, and at the end say, if necessary, “I have failed,” than never to have tried. Remember the medal
presented by the Alumni to the freshman who makes the highest grade in his class. AVI Chalmers '20 was the
winner of the first of these medals; the second...Is it yet to be won: Freshman! What are you going to
do about it? It is said that a father once took his son to a college in charge of a
noted educator. The father considered all the courses and remarked, "All these courses are too long; I want a short
one for my son, something that will not take up so much of his time. Can you give him a
shorter course?" "Yes," replied the famous educator, "but you know that a gourd will grow in a summer, but God
takes a hundred years to make an oak."

No, Freshman, the Bonehead isn't the one who bones; he's the one who doesn't. A word to the wise—better than
hour lectures to the other kind. On which side of the fence are you, the inside, that circumscribes and limits
your life to one of uselessness, crosstie counting, safe cracking, and similar “slacker” activities? Or are you on the outside,
preparing for a life of honorable, altruistic work, with the ability to enjoy your tasks and grasp the aesthetics evidenced
in the physical, mental, moral, and religious worlds?

Whether ever before or not, certainly now, at the beginning, you are cordially invited to inspect our premises. Chero-Cola Bottling
Company, 10 N. Church St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.

What a pity that he (unlike the Sophomores) is too timid to knock it down and come in regardless of
your inclinations! Did it ever occur to you that it might not completely despoil your “college course” of all its
advantages if you began your sojourn at college by studying a little? In fact, if you adopted that plan, you
might change your idea regarding the meaning of “college course,” and strike nearer to the real significance. Why, get busy
now? Why, next year you will be a “bloody Soph.” and will be too busy taming the Freshmen to study.

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Lt. Patterson, Representative

LISTEN—Let me do your Kodak Finishing Work. Satisfaction guaranteed and the work returned on schedule.

You say that you are going to get down to hard work when your Senior year comes? Possibly, but most
Seniors, especially those who wait till their Senior year to begin, are too dignified to engage in such frivolous encumbrances
as studies, and at Commencement “graduate,” freed from the burden of paying their diploma fees. It's hard to start the
wheels that are to grind knowledge into these seemingly impervious heads of ours. Hard? Yes, it’s the hard-earned dollar that
we appreciate, the hard nut that makes an oak. Likewise, in college, it takes time to achieve success in some
ideals. Later you will be held more in respect by your peers: after three years with an average of 93
or over, comes membership in the Honor Society. The fourth year, three students will hold first, second, and third honor
places at commencement. Get your momentum now, overcome all interfering friction, and come out with the flying colors of success—isn’t
it worth the effort?

THES, W. H. HARRELL
84 Chambers

ARMOUR BROS. & THOMPSON INVITE YOU TO CALL ON THEM FOR Arrow Collars, Ties, Tennis Oxfords, $1; Scout Shoes, $3.50-4.00;
Silk Hose, 50c., and many other things that you may need in the clothing line. See if we haven’t what
you want.

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies LOW
PRICES OUR MOTTO

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson 17
Years at the Same Place

Why can’t we crack a few mental nuts (problems) and learn to enjoy winning a hard-fought mental game, and appreciate
what we have won? The “knowledge mill” is like other machines: friction must be overcome, and momentum gained before it
will run to advantage. The first movement is the hardest to make; momentum soon comes in to lend a helping
hand. Physicists say (I will have to quote them, since I have never tried it, but anyway) physicists claim that
if a body, free from frictional influences and gravimetric pull, were set in motion in an open pass through space,
that it would continue in motion, at the speed it had at the start. But friction and gravitation counteract motion,
and the machines of the mental world obey the laws of the physical, or, in other words, ought the furtherance
of mental training be stopped by the friction of difficult studies, or by the gravimetric pull of worthless distractions from
the duty at hand? No, the momentum gained at the starting of the wheels should be conserved and increased by
continued, faithful application to studying. Then when the very rough places come, such as Sophomores too busily engaged taming the
“Fresh,” the Juniors too busy to do “anything,” and the Seniors...

(Continued on page 6)

The following list of reading matter found in the reading room of the library is printed as information to the
old and new students and while it is not absolutely accurate in details it can safely be relied upon in
case anyone decides to consult a periodical. There are at present nine dailies taken and this number will be increased
in the near future to at least twelve. Besides these, the following papers and magazines may be found:

QUARTERLIES
Quarterly Journal of Economics
South Atlantic Quarterly
Unpopular Review, The

MONTHLIES
Advocate of Peace
American Magazine, The
Atlantic Monthly
Atlantis
Bookman, The
Book News Monthly, The
Century, The
Current Opinion
Everybody’s
Field and Stream
Forum, The
Harper’s Monthly
Hibbert Journal, The
