2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Editorial Board:
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
W. P. Davenport, W. A. Johnson, E. A. Turner, D. M. Chalmers, W. T. Dunlap, W. C. Cumming, J. F. McClerkin, E. H. Hamilton, E. R. Boney, K. P. Coachman, M. A. Siske, C. W. Foreman, M. A. Tremain, D. M. Orgain, R. E. McClure, L. G. Calhoun, R. D. Hall, E. A. Woods, J. B. Woods.

Management:
Business Manager: G. F. Webber
Assistant Managers: O. J. Thies, Jr., G. C. Bellingrath

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

“College ties can ne'er be broken,” especially football ties.

More agony is wrought by speaking than this world dreams of.

What is the difference between the man who takes a light out of a Society Hall, and any other thief?

It’s queer that some men will pay to be taught in expression, and yet the Freshmen who get the training for nothing, dread it. Can that be an argument for more optional work?

HEAR THE SPEAKING.

A Junior or Senior Speaking represents a lot of work, not only in writing and learning the speeches, but in gathering the necessary material and information. Each of the sixty-seven speeches lately composed by Juniors speaks of hours of research work and much scratching of the head in order to put the acquired material in logical and presentable form. One of the main purposes of such an occasion is that the speakers themselves should receive the information which this research brings, for each speaker becomes almost an authority along the line of his subject. If this is so, certainly it would profit anybody to hear sixty-seven authorities speak on about the same number of different subjects, to hear concentrated into a few minutes the information that has been hours in the getting. So for personal benefit and education, if for no other reason, we hope a larger number of students than has been the custom will attend the speaking.

PROF. WOOD RETURNS.

Prof. W. W. Wood is again on the Hill at work. Professor Wood has been recuperating at his home in Charlottesville, Va., from a severe illness, which forced him to give up his work here. His many friends in the college and town are very glad indeed to have him back again.

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 28, 1917

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS LAYMEN'S CONVENTION

The Laymen’s Missionary Movement held its fifth general convention in Lexington, Ky., on the 20th, 21st, and 22nd of February. Dr. Martin was elected as presiding officer. The hospitality of the local committees, together with the good weather, made the convention a great success. Three conferences were held each day, in the morning, afternoon, and evening.

The convention opened Tuesday afternoon, February 20th. Dr. Muller, pastor of the First Church of Lexington, made the address of welcome. This was followed by the response by Dr. Martin. On Tuesday evening Dr. Homer McMillan, an alumnus of Davidson, made an address on “America’s Duty to the Needy Home;” Rev. P. James Bryant (colored), pastor of the Wheat Street Baptist Church, of Atlanta, which has a membership of 5,000, made an address on “How Can the Church of the South Help the Negro Churches?” This was one of the best addresses of the convention. Although what he said was very keen, he softened it with his wit and sense of humor. Rev. R. O. Flynn, father of Emery Flynn, '19, made an address Wednesday afternoon on “Did It Pay My Church toDo Relief Work?” The great topic, “The Work of the Probation Court,” was discussed on Wednesday evening. Rev. G. R. Buford, who was killed in Atlanta Saturday, was to have delivered an address Wednesday evening on “The Methods I Am Employing to Take Advantage of the Opportunities Afforded My Church Through Community Agencies.” The incomplete notes of the message he was to have delivered to the convention were found on his desk. Dr. Ogden, pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, delivered a very impressive address from them and on the history of his life. W. S. Royster, a Davidson alumnus, now in Norfolk, VA, delivered an address Thursday afternoon on “The Matter of Consecrated Means.” The convention closed on Thursday evening with an address by Rev. D. T. Burrell, pastor of the Marble Presbyterian Church of New York, on the topic, “The Leadership of the Holy Spirit.” The total number of registered delegates at the convention was 1,150.

JOINT SERVICE HELD SUNDAY EVENING

The Christian Endeavor Society, Ministerial Band, and the Volunteer Band met as one body last Sunday evening. At this meeting, J. R. Woods and P. B. Price outlined the plans for the coming meeting of the Volunteers of the North Carolina colleges, to be held at Greensboro, March 5th, 10th, and 11th. They also spoke of the good that had been derived from the meetings held the last two years and urged all who possibly could, to attend. J. G. Patton, '16, next gave a very interesting talk urging all students to use their time to the best advantage while in college. He showed from his text, John 11:14, that we were all dead in trespasses and sins, and the best way to do the Lord’s work and to wake the world to the realization of this sin, was through conscientious work at college.

NOTICE.

J. C. Paisley, '17, has found it necessary to resign from the position of circulation manager of The Davidsonian, owing to heaviness of class work, and until the regular election, the assistant managers will have charge of the office work.

Presbyterian Publishing Co.
“Every Job a Good One”
216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY
Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

The BERWICK
ARROW COLLARS
are curve cut to fit the shoulders perfectly. 15 cents each, 2 for 25 cents
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC.
Makers

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
R. H. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. B. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

FORD TRIP
See R. D. MOONEY
Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes
General Merchandise
Schloss Clothing
New Shirts
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG,
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
FANCY GROCERIES

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Baseball
Get supplied at THE COMMISSARY