‘The DAVIDSONIAN, May 9, 1917

NEW SONG PRACTISED AT MUSICAL HOUR

The musical hour between 5:30 and 6:30 last Friday afternoon was a distinct success. The newly organized band, under the leadership of “Eddie” Childs, gave a concert in Shearer Hall. The concert was attended by a large number of students and townspeople. Though it was only its second appearance, good music was furnished that would have done credit to an older band. Never once was there any hesitation or delay, but one selection followed another in rapid order. As the band came on the stage it was given an ovation by the students. Many selections were rendered, always cheered repeatedly by the enthusiastic gathering. The “pep” displayed showed that the new band is not to be a temporary organization but is to take a regular place in the college life at Davidson.

The new Davidson song made its initial appearance. Long delayed, it has at last been brought forth. Copies of the song were distributed throughout the audience. After it had been played over several times by B. E. Shields, composer of the music, the students, gathering in the front seats of the hall, sung it together. Several times it was gone over. By reason of its stirring words and swinging air, this battle cry made a favorable impression on the crowd. As a fitting close to the afternoon's performance, “Dixie” and “The Star-Spangled Banner” were rendered. As the band struck up the tune of our National Hymn the whole assemblage rose to its feet and sung with spirit the last selection. Below is a copy of the new Davidson song:

O DAVIDSON! (Battle Cry—A Song)

1. O Davidson, you are the best old college in the East or West,
You've got the stuff, men, and that’s enough then,
For you'll win in everything.
Oh when that Red and Black machine is out to fight and lookin’ mean,
Then I am happy as for you I sing:

Chorus:
O Davidson, we will down them, down them every one,
O Davidson, we will conquer, e’er the day is done;
Down with (Carolina) as through their lines we run,
(A. & M. then, (with Virginia, (then with Clemson,
Win for the honor of old Davidson!

2. O Davidson, you're more than worth all the colleges on earth,
You play a fair game, you play a square game.
And you win in everything.
You're next to none, and when I see you going on to victory,
Then I am happy as for you I sing:

Chorus:
Music by B. E. Shields, ’20.
Words by E. H. Hamilton, ‘20.

ALUMNI HAVE ENLISTED.

The old students of Davidson who have responded loyally and whose applications have gone through college channels are: J. E. Yohanan, J. D. Roddey, T. I. R. Barron, A. S. Tompkins, C. L. Walker, W. P. Thomson, J. W. Gilchrist, L. L. Miller, T. H. Pritchard, M. McRae, Dr. J. S. Stevens, Dr. R. Hill, J. O. Cobb, Latta Law, Cosby, Newton, J. G. Patton, M. E. Robertson, D. E. McCloy, L. H. Anderson, F. Brownlee, W. M. Cosby, R. S. Nitturington, J. E. Johnson, E. S. Campbell, M. R. Adams, J. C. B. Siske, W. R. Novies, J. H. Elder, and W. A. Elliott.

NEWS OF THE FACULTY FOR COMING SUMMER

For the benefit of friends of the Faculty members, the following addresses for the coming summer have been secured:

Dr. Martin and family will be at Montreat, N. C. Miss Steele will be with them during their stay there.

Professor Currie and family will be at Dublin, Va., where he will teach Law at the summer session of William and Mary College.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell intends to stay at Davidson, as he is liable to be called into service by the Government.

Prof. J. L. Douglas will spend the summer in Davidson.

Mr. Jackson will visit Gastonia and Lumberton during the vacation season, while he will spend most of his time here.

Miss Shaw will look after the office work during the months of June and July.

W. R. Grey and family will spend the summer here.

Dr. J. M. MacConnell will teach History at the University of Virginia Summer School. His family will visit in Virginia and Maryland.

Professor Reed will spend a few weeks with his family in West Virginia before going to Columbia University.

Dr. Sentelle will visit in Tennessee.

Dr. J. M. Douglas and family will remain in Davidson until August. Professor and Mrs.Fulton will visit in Danville, Ky., and will later go to Virginia. Dr. Arbuckle will spend the summer on his farm in Greenbrier County, Maxwelton, W. Va. Professor and Mrs. Withers will spend the summer in Davidson. Dr. Lingle and family will be in Montreat, where Dr. Lingle will conduct his summer school. Dr. Hardin will in all probability remain in Davidson.

GENERAL WOOD GIVES ADVICE TO STUDENTS

Representatives of a certain Eastern University, in reply to a letter which they recently wrote to Gen. Leonard Wood, have received the following answer:

“Tell your young men to stick to their present duties until such time as the Government calls for men. This it will undoubtedly do when its plans are announced. You have a training corps at Pennsylvania with an officer of the regular Army assigned as instructor. The most important service men can render their country now is to stay at their university and put in all the time possible under a military instructor in preparing themselves for probable service. There is no reason whatever for the men discontinuing college work until the Government plans are definitely announced.

“Sincerely yours,
“Leonard Wood.”

—Gamecock.

Dr. T. W. Lingle will make the Commencement address at the closing of the Tennis Graded School, Thursday, May 10th.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address LINCOLN OIL CO., Cleveland, O.

REUNIONS

This is the year for the reunion of the classes of 1912, 1907, 1902, 1897, 1892, and all other classes that have been out of college for multiples of five years. A number of classes have expressed their intention of holding reunions this year, and it is hoped that many more will make their arrangements to be here. The usual Alumni Banquet will be held Tuesday afternoon.

MR. E. S. BERRYHILL

E. S. Berryhill, father of W. C. Berryhill, ’19, died of a complication of troubles, at his home in Steele Creek, Sunday morning at 3 o'clock. He was buried at Steele Creek Church Monday morning at 10 o'clock. The heartfelt sympathy of the entire student body goes out to their fellow student, W. C. Berryhill.

TOWN ELECTION

The following men were nominees in the town election on last Monday: For mayor, J. Lee Sloan; for aldermen, W. H. Thompson, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, Cloyd A. Potts, W. B. Barnette, T. E. Lothery.

A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Baseballs, Shoes, Gloves
Tennis Balls, Tennis Rackets
Tennis Nets & Tennis Shoes
at The Commissary

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALUMNI: Are you interested in your Alma Mater? Do you want to know what is happening on the Old Campus? The Davidsonian will tell you every week.

PATRONS of Davidson College: Did you ever think that it would be worthwhile to get weekly news from the college to which you have sent your son for an education? The Davidsonian is at your service.

FRIENDS of Davidson College: You like to know how your friends are faring. The Davidsonian will be like a weekly letter from a friend to a friend.

The DAVIDSONIAN intends to give its subscribers a six-page paper every week in the college year for $1.25. Let us include you among our subscribers. Send your name to O. C. Williamson, Circulation Mgr.

Montreat Summer School
Montreat, N. C.
Established and controlled by the Mountain Retreat Association
Third Annual Session. Six weeks beginning July 3rd. Classes and private instruction in Ancient and Modern Languages, History, and Mathematics. Certificate accepted at most colleges and universities. Also, work of the Grammar Grades and Kindergarten given. Send for announcement. Address Prof. Thos. W. Lingle, Director, Davidson, N. C.

QUEENS COLLEGE FOR YOUNG WOMEN

Has a healthy location, in Myers Park, at Charlotte, N. C. Regular street car service connecting with the city. Dormitories the best in the country. All building equipment new. Private bath and toilet to each two rooms. For particulars write to CAPT. WILLIAM ANDERSON, Treasurer, Myers Park, Charlotte, N. C.