2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are: J. W. Clark, A. R. Craig, C. Hunter, W. J. Huneycutt, H. K. Aiken,
Jr., E. R. Boney, T. C. Stone, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., T. N. Morton.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

Tempus fugit. Junior Speaking three and a half weeks off.

A very pathetic voice was heard Monday night singing, “O where is my wandering bed tonight?”

Riddle: Which do students look for first in the paper, the basketball games, or the war news?

Maybe it was fortunate after all that the Freshmen had a little military training last Fall.

FIRE...
The almost serious fire that occurred in Watts Saturday night brings up again the question of unpreparedness in case of
accidents of that nature. And it is a sane and important question, for despite the constant danger of fire in
the dormitories, where there are electric wires and matches in every room, there is absolutely no provision made for accident.
It was kindly fortune that caused the ignition to occur in a room where there was running water instead of
in Rumple, where the H2O would have to be carried in tumblers, else Davidson would probably have been minus a
dormitory. There ought to be fire extinguishers in every hall. Should a whole building catch fire, the plight would be
even worse. There are on the campus, we believe, two lengths of fire hose, and by diligent search, they can
be found carefully stowed away in the Power House. But the fact has been known by only a few in
the student body. It is to be hoped that with the building of the new water tank and the additional
pressure, that some system of fire fighting, not only for the college, but for the village will be formed. It
might not be a bad idea for the Freshmen to compose a fire department and have it a part of
their gymnasium work to practice “fire drill.”

SOPH BANQUET.
An exchange has written an article that we feel is so uniquely appropriate this week, that we cannot but print
it:

“Experience and observation have helped us solve the banquet. We know the creature by heart. It is always staged by
progressive would-be’s. Every banquet is the best ever. This is tactfully understood.

“The various committees have several objects. The committee on menu is the real rip-snorter. It is made up of language
students and dictionary delvers with a society twist. They do their damndest and the menu looks it. If anybody can
decipher the menu the banquet is a failure.

“The committee on victuals gets the next whack. They select the liquid and solid torture and match it with the
names. This committee is mostly made up of would-be cooks and the results show it. Their object is to serve
as little as possible, but to make that little last. It generally does. We know a case where it lasted
forever. This banquet was a success.

“At a banquet nobody can eat in peace. There is the gaseous torture. This is the worst. Just as you
have discovered a microscopic salad on your plate a toast is announced. You look for the toast, but see that
you have been fooled. It is a gassy toast. You have lost your salad in the bargain. It cannot be
rediscovered. Perhaps a fly has put it in its pocket. ThisPerformance is served in relays on some occasions. On others,
the gassy part comes last. This is fortunate, for you can sleep through this torture. No matter when this part
comes, it is awful. The eats are generally as bad as the names. The whole thing is rotten, but you
praise everything. As a result, the banquet is a great success. Why? Because everybody says so.

DATES OF CONTESTS IN LITERARY SOCIETIES

A number of contests are scheduled for the coming months in the two literary societies. The first of these is
the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest, to be held on March 19, and to which the Freshman and Sophomore members of the
two societies are eligible. On April 2, the Fresh-Soph Debate is scheduled, but the query for this contest has not
yet been decided upon by the Debating Council. The preliminaries in the Junior-Senior Debate will be held on April 16,
and the finals on April 30, the subject for this also to be announced at an early date. In the
Essay Contest, all entries must be in before April 28. Each article submitted must contain between 1,200 and 3,500 words,
and must be handed in under a fictitious name. The Fiction Contest is governed by the same rules that apply
in the Essay Contest with the exception of the length clause. The Junior Orator’s Medal will be awarded at Commencement
to the winner of the Junior Oratoricals by the two societies.

DAVIDSON STUDENT LOSES HIS FATHER

The news of the sudden death, Sunday afternoon, of “Jack” Black’s father came as a shock to the whole campus.
He had apparently been in his usual good health until he was stricken with acute indigestion, passing away after a
brief illness of only half an hour. Dr. Black was about 52 years of age and has been a practicing
physician in Cabarrus County for about 25 years. He is survived by his widow, five sons, and two daughters. “Jack”
may feel sure that consideration and heartfelt sympathy go out to him from everyone at Davidson College, and especially from
his many strong friends both here on the campus and elsewhere.

Athletic Goods and College Pennants

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention
The Southern Serves the South
22 South Tryon St.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
R. H. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD.
Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes
:: General Merchandise ::

Schloss Clothing
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
:: Fruits and Candies ::
FANCY GROCERIES

Quality Counts
That's why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.

Alex. Taylor & Co.
THE COMMISSARY
