The DAVIDSONIAN, January 17, 1917

SUMMER CONFERENCE OF STUDENTS IN THE BLUE RIDGE MOUNTAINS

“Save a dollar a week” is the title of a placard going to each student Y. M. C. A. in the South at this time. This is an advance word concerning the unique gathering of students held every Summer in the heart of the Blue Ridge Mountains. “Blue Ridge” is a place unsurpassed in natural beauty, convenience, and comfort. Located near the mountain village of Black Mountain, and only fifteen miles from Asheville, it is increasingly becoming the playground for the entire South. Here are the most majestic mountains of the entire Eastern America—High Top, the Craggies, the Seven Sisters, Clingman’s Dome, and Mitchell, the highest east of the Rockies. Mountain climbing, therefore, as well as sightseeing, kodaking, and the like, always occupy a prominent place in one’s stay at Blue Ridge. Abundant facilities for tennis, baseball, volleyball, basketball, and swimming complete the list.

The equipment, too, furnishes every necessity. The spacious Robert E. Lee Hall, and the numerous cottages built by the colleges, furnish the most comfortable “quarters.” The grounds and buildings are all supplied with electric lights, water works, sewerage, and every other modern convenience. It is here that the men convene their conference just after the close of the college women's gathering. It is here that the students gather for addresses for Bible study, mission study, for round table discussions, for enlarged conceptions of and thorough training in the whole program of religious work in the colleges and preparatory schools. It is here that men have often secured aid on their life work. And it is here through comradeship one student with another and with great student leaders like Robert E. Speer, Bishop McDowell, E. T. Colton, Dr. E. M. Poteat, Dr. O. E. Brown, Prof. H. H. Horne, Dr. W. D. Weatherford, and others, that men have caught a new vision for themselves, as well as a new sense of their responsibility to their fellowmen. It is here, in fact, that men have been inspired to do their work.

Over four hundred men were in attendance at this gathering last June. Already scores of students are planning for the next one—June 12-21, 1917. Many men will make good the opportunity while at home Christmas to plan this next greater gathering.

EMORY AND ROANOKE TO BE DEBATED

Judging from the manner of preparation of those interested, there will be some good speeches given in the preliminaries for the inter-collegiate debating team on January 29th, in the halls of the Eu, and Phi. Societies. Four men will be chosen from each society who will compete in the finals in Shearer Hall on February 12th.

The Debating Council has arranged a debate with Emory University, of Oxford, Ga., to be held at Agnes Scott, near the 1st of April. The subject will be the same as the one to be used in the preliminaries: “Resolved, That employers and employees of Public Service Corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes by arbitration.” Davidson will defend the negative.

A debate is also to be held at Salem, Va., with Roanoke College, of Salem, Va., on April 20th. Two questions have been submitted by Davidson, and Roanoke has the privilege of choosing the subject and side.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

The Sun Dial—The Senior Class at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College has adopted the custom of wearing uniform collars. The other classes report the appearance of the line to be noticeably improved and all wonder why the custom was not established long ago.

* * *

College Topics—Dr. John H. Wigmore, Dean of the Law School at Northwestern University, delivered the three lectures that are given annually under the auspices of the Barbour-Page Foundation at the University of Virginia. “Problems of the Law” was the subject chosen by Dr. Wigmore for the three lectures, and he divided them into the problems of the past, the present, and the future.

* * *The Vanderbilt Hustler—A new system of grading has been announced for all classes in the School of Medicine of Vanderbilt. In this system only three letters are used—P., C., and F. P. means pass, C. condition, and F. fail. All grades from 70 to 100 are denoted by P., from 55-70, by C., and from 0-55 by F.

* * *

The Tar Heel—The second annual inter-collegiate debate between the University of North Carolina and George Washington was held in Washington December 18th, the U. of N. C. upholding the affirmative of the question: “Resolved, That Congress should pass a law requiring compulsory arbitration of all controversies arising between the employers and the employees of railroads engaged in interstate commerce, constitutionality waived,” lost by a 2 to 1 decision although they put up a strong defense.

TIME TO LEAVE SCHOOL.

The boy who is impatient to leave school and begin earning money will do well to realize that a good education is the most efficient tool in carving out a living. A proof of this is found in the action of a large factory in New York which has established a school for its employees, and pays them full wages for attending its sessions in work hours. The firm’s object is to raise the standard of work and to eliminate the loss and annoyance caused by the failure of illiterate workers to understand and follow directions. They report that the workers who have been trained in this school show a gain of from 20 to 70 percent in efficiency.—Pleasant Hours.

POINTS ON READING.

How often a person will say, “Oh, I have just finished a splendid book. No, I can’t remember the title or the author, but it was perfectly fine.” On such careless reading, Alan Northman, whose book page is one of the most distinguished features of the Sunday School Chronicle, has this to say: “To read carelessly is worse than not to read at all; that to read with intelligence, you must fix your mind upon the title of the book, which probably means something; that, if the book is worth anything, it is ‘bad form’ to neglect the author’s name, and in this way is worse than wicked; and that, in the best cases, even the publisher’s name should be carefully studied.”

Among those confined at the Infirmary are J. B. Daffin, '18; J. E. McKeithen, '18; E. B. Burns, ’19, and L. H. Patterson, the last named suffering with measles. F. R. Spratt, ’20, was recently stricken with mumps, and has returned to his home. Mrs. Brawley, of Brevard, N. C., is now with her sister, Mrs. Withers.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. . . Fountain. . .

Drink at our Sanitary Fountain

We want to serve you.

The Rexall Store

WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses

WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

We Excel in SERVICE

You like to trade with a Drug Store where you get just what you want—where you are served in the right way. We are particular about our service, and a courteous, respectful and obliging manner is always proffered you. Make your Drug Store shopping pleasant by coming here:

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Special Attention to Davidson Men

Davidson Pressing Club

Best Line of General Merchandise in Town

Suits Cleaned & Pressed $1.00

DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY

ALL WORK GUARANTEED

HOTEL STONEWALL

HOTEL HUFFINE, - Greensboro, N. C.

JUST RECEIVED

HOTEL YADKIN, - Salisbury, N. C.

EXTENSIVE LINE

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N. C.

King Quality Shoes New Models

HOTEL LEELAND, - Danville, Va.

J. P. SANDERS, President

United Motor Lines Regular Lines

LET US FIT YOU

Hotel Central

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We cater to special trips for students

Frank P. Morton, Manager

Between Charlotte and Statesville

L. S. Patterson, College Representative

SPECIAL RATES TO DAVIDSON MEN