4 New Honor Society at Davidson Gryphon Order Has Become Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa.

On Thursday, May 24, Mr. W. M. Brown, of Washington and Lee, General Secretary of Omicron Delta Kappa National Society,
formally installed the Gryphon Senior Order as Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa. Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. M. E.
Sentelle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, T. J. Mitchell, D. I. McKeithen, A. Brown, A. B. Reese, P. B. Price, L.
A. Chambliss, J. L. Fowle, A. P. Saunders, L. M. Thomas, Jr., and J. R. Woods were initiated as charter
members. S. R. Keesler and J. A. Thames will be initiated as soon as they return to college.

For some time plans have been under way to secure a charter from Omicron Delta Kappa. On May 21 this
was granted by the National Council. Davidson is the fourth college to secure a charter, coming after Washington and Lee,
Johns Hopkins, and the Carnegie School of Technology. The college feels indeed honored to be placed so high in the
list of circles. This society ranks as one of the most valuable honor societies in existence. The key which its
members wear is a symbol of distinction which is worthy of the pride of any man. It is the desire
of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society “to recognize men who have attained a high standard of efficiency in collegiate activities,
and to inspire others to strive for conspicuous attainments along similar lines.”

Among the advantages of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society may be mentioned the following: It includes in its scope all
departments and phases of college life. It draws the varying interests and activities of the college campus closer together, thus
broadening the attitude of each. It is unique in its essential features, being unlike any other honorary organization now in
existence. It does not aim at competing with any other societies whatever, whether honorary or fraternal. It emphasizes moral character
and an even balance in the development of the college student. It serves as a common meeting ground for all
the leaders on the campus. Its broad scope makes it more distinctly exclusive than is the case with other organizations.
It permits the recognition of a man as early as his sophomore year in college. It serves to mold the
sentiment of the college community on important questions of local interest.

The following, quoted from the constitution, is sufficient to indicate the necessary requirements for membership in the Omicron Delta Kappa
Society: “Character shall be the primal consideration for membership in this society.” “No man shall be eligible during his first
year of residence in the institution.” “The membership shall be confined to men.” “In the selection of the first and
second classes of active members the complete collegiate record of each prospect (both in and out of the local institution
as far as possible) shall be obtained and divided into the following heads or groups. He must have attained special
distinction in at least one of these phases of collegiate activity in the opinion of the active members. The divisions
are arranged in the proper order of importance and consideration.” “(1) Scholarship or marked proficiency in one or more collegiate
departments. (2) Athletics both local and intercollegiate. (3) Social leadership including conspicuous service to the institution. (4) Literary societies and
intercollegiate contests. (5) Publications.”

It is the plan of the circle each year to elect one or two prominent alumni of Davidson to membership.
At that time one of these men shall deliver a public oration, and the new members in the student body
shall be announced.

PRACTICAL AND STIRRING (Continued from page 1)

diffusion of spiritual democracy, the liberty and choice under God, and to participate in all the privileges that a democratic
and spiritual liberty guarantees. Third, in the fulfillment of this mission life must be dominated by spiritual and not worldly
interests. Then he recounted some Davidson men who have been prompted by this true vision. Among the many he named
General Ramseur, Stonewall Jackson, whose wife, the woman who blessed his life, spent her girlhood days in Davidson; then of
the Governor who has done great things for civic order, ex-Governor R. B. Glenn; and then lastly, President Wilson, who
was reared in a Presbyterian manse. In concluding he gave a poem with which he has pleased thousands, and was
a fitting remark for the powerful sermon preceding.

Y. M. C. A. SERMON.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, of the Union Theological Seminary, in Richmond, Va., preached the annual sermon before the Y. M.
C. A. of Davidson College on Sunday night, May 27. His subject was the story of the Rich Young Ruler,
and especially his question and the answer of Jesus to that question, found in Mark 10:17-21. The young man wanted
eternal life, but was not willing to give up his wealth for Christ—each must meet such a crisis in his
life, and make the proper decision, Dr. Lingle said.

PHI. WINS DEBATING CUP AND ALSO BOTH MEDALS

The Debating Cup given each year to the literary society that wins in the Junior-Senior Debate, was won this year
by the Phi. Society. The question this year was: “Resolved, That a Pan-American Alliance should take the place of the
Monroe Doctrine.” The team winning for the Phi. was composed of Messrs. Geo. Webber, W. C. Cumming and J. L.
Fowle. The Phi. also has the honor of winning both oratorical medals contested for by the two societies. J. L.
Fowle won the Junior Orator’s Medal.and W. H. Neal the Senior Orator’s Medal.

DAVIDSON DURING ITS EIGHTY-FIRST SESSION

The three highest honor men of the graduating class (including entire college course): Valedictorian, Herman Archibald Campbell, Aberdeen, N. C.;
Salutatorian, Francis Marion Mitchell, Jr., Edisto Island, S. C.; Philosophical Oration, Steven Thomas Henderson, Charlotte, N. C.

Honor Roll for entire session (1916-1917):

Senior Class—S. T. Henderson, Charlotte, N. C. (highest mark in college), 98.44; F. M. Mitchell, Jr., Edisto Island, S. C.,
98.05; H. A. Campbell, Aberdeen, N. C., 97.40; E. H. Hamilton, Atlanta, Ga., 96.00; D. I. McKeithan, Aberdeen, N. C.,
95.57; A. R. Craig, Pendleton, S. C., 95.14.

Junior Class—J. R. Woods, Tsing Kiang Pu, China, 97.89; J. W. Clark, Charleston, S. C., 97.67; S. T. McCloy, Monticello,
Ark., 97.22; O. J. Thies, Jr., Charlotte, N. C., 96.44; L. M. Thomas, Jr., Chattanooga, Tenn., 95.69; O. C. Williamson,
Charlotte, N. C., 95.21.

Sophomore Class—E. B. Wright, Rome, Ga., 96.05; S. H. Askew, Atlanta, Ga., 97.30.

Freshman Class—Dwight Moody Chalmers, Charlotte, N. C. (winner of the Alumni Freshman Scholarship Medal), 97.24; Wm. Love, Columbus, Miss., 96.02.

Honorable mention for attaining to within one unit of the Honor Roll:

Seniors—T. J. Mitchell, Thomasville, Ga.; C. R. Jenkins, Charleston, S. C.
Juniors—H. T. Lilly, Winston-Salem, N. C.; W. C. Cumming, Wilmington, N. C.
Sophomore—C. W. Foreman, Montreat, N. C.
Freshman—A. L. Foscue, Maysville, S. C.

CLOSING RECEPTION ENJOYED BY ALL

The closing event of the Commencement exercises on Tuesday night, which was scheduled on the invitation to have been a
fraternity and society reception, was changed, because of so small a number of students and visitors on the Hill, into
a society reception. The Philanthropic Society hall, in which the reception was held, had been beautifully decorated with roses, ivy,
and senior class colors, thanks to the kind assistance of Miss Shaw. The reception, beginning at 9 o'clock and lasting
until shortly after 10, was exceptionally well attended. Only a very few of the students, it is true, remained, but
these, with their visitors and faculty, almost unanimously attended, and lent to the making of this event the most enjoyable
of the Commencement exercises. The reception was informal, as were all of this spring's Commencement exercises. The punch served was
splendid, and one of the ladies present overheard “Pep” Patterson saying that he had just taken his fourth glass.

A DAVIDSONIAN HAS A SUCCESSFUL YEAR

Mr. Jackson is a force. As treasurer and business manager he is serving the college in a unique way. Probably
no one but he can do the work as he does it. He devotes his entire time to this department
and has collected several thousand dollars which the college had considered not collectable. He is the famed Red and Black
Spirit incarnate. He is behind everything that is pushing college interests—and he is there with rare gifts of executive and
administrative ability.

MR. F. L. JACKSON

Not only does he serve the college in this way. The students admire him. He is very companionable and can
view problems from the undergraduate point of view. As a counsellor he is always glad to help a fellow out
of a difficulty. He is one of the first that the new man sees in beginning college duties. Instantly they
become friends. During one day he may register one hundred new men. Almost without an exception when he sees one
of those on the campus it is “How do you do, Mr. So-and-So?” in a way which is greatly pleasing.
This is a rare gift. He is the right man in the right place.

ANNUAL ALUMNI LUNCHEON

The annual meeting and banquet of the General Alumni Association was held Tuesday afternoon at 6 o'clock in the old
Y. M. C. A. building. The menu was splendid, having been prepared by experts in the line. For the ensuing
year the old officers were unanimously re-elected, as follows: R. M. Miller, Jr., of Charlotte, president; W. T. Bailey, Greenwood,
S. C., vice-president; Dr. J. W. McConnell, Davidson, secretary and treasurer. Hon. B. R. Lacy and W. J. Roddey were
re-elected as members of the Board of Trustees from the Alumni Association. The president, Mr. Miller, briefly outlined some of
the things which he thought the association should undertake, among which was the employment of a permanent and salaried secretary
to keep in touch with the alumni; the endowing of some chair by the association; and the supporting of The
Davidsonian by the alumni. The secretary was instructed to send a night letter to those members of the class of
1917 who are at Fort Oglethorpe, welcoming them as members of the Alumni Association.

Statement of Student Organizations Under Audit Board Control for the Year 1916-1917:

The Davidsonian
May 15
Dr. $1,093.56
Cr. $1,085.80
Printing $1,000.00
Office Supplies $71.65
Postage $1.00
Miscellaneous $221.35
Advertising $9,256.86
Blanket subscriptions $3,256.86

Quips and Cranks
May 15
Dr. $2,060.01
Cr. $2,596.63
Printing $1,671.11
Office Supplies $1,000.00
Postage $1,000.00
Miscellaneous $646.12
Advertising $7,732.35

Y. M. C. A.
May 26
Dr. $1,004.62
Cr. $884.23
Stationery $15.10
Maintenance $11.60
Extension $152.75
Miscellaneous $96.49
Postage $107.78
Blanket Fee $1,091.22

College Magazine
May 26
Dr. $380.75
Cr. $370.05
Printing $381.60
Office Supplies $1.50
Postage $1,140.55
Miscellaneous $1,140.55
