The DAVIDSONIAN, November 7, 1917

MR. DAY, OF CAMP GREENE, MAKES STRONG APPEAL

The meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday night was addressed by Mr. G. S. Day, of the Y. M. C. A. department of Camp Greene. Mr. Day first spoke of the crusade-like spirit with which the war was being carried on by the United States, and he urged all American citizens not to hate the enemy. He then described a tour of the camp, describing the various activities that were going on in the five “Y” huts. The activities spoken of were talks, movies, “stunt night,” letter writing, and athletics.

LITERARY SOCIETIES READY SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, November 10: Resolved, That commission form of government should be adopted by cities having a population of over 50,000.

Eumenean — Affirmative: Crouch, Potts, and C. B. Robson. Negative: J. R. Woods, Brown, and Allen. Declamation: Richards. Oration: Frierson.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Roberts and H. T. Lilly. Negative: R. D. Hall and Tremain. Oration: J. W. Clark. Declamation: Foscue.

Eumenean Freshman — Affirmative: Brumby, W. P. Cumming, and St. Clair. Negative: Sanders, Walton, and Heizer. Declamations: McCaskill and Romefelt.

Philanthropic Junior — Affirmative: Poteat. Negative: Edwards. Declamations: Storey, Fricker, Deaver, Beall, and Currie.

In a spirited debate Saturday night, the affirmative, upheld by W. C. Neel and L. G. Calhoun, convinced the judges that the different states should adopt the Initiative, Referendum, and Recall. They showed why these measures are needed, proving also that they would work successfully because of the success wherever tried. The negative, defended by M. A. Siske and W. B. Knox, contended that the initiative, referendum, and recall are unnecessary and would lower the efficiency of our law-making bodies.

The subject for extemporaneous debate was, Resolved, that chapel should be held at 12 o'clock instead of 7:45. McClure advanced several arguments why the time should be changed. Alexander argued that the present time is the best for holding chapel because it makes the boys get up for breakfast, it gives a good chance for notices to be given, and takes place when the students are fresh and can give clearer thought to devotion. The committee decided in favor of the negative.

The president announced that the election of officers for the second term would take place Saturday night, November 10. He also announced that the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest in the Philanthropic Society will be held the first Monday night in December, on December 2. It is hoped that a large number of the new men and Sophomores will enter this contest, the winner of which will receive the usual handsome medal at commencement. All those desiring to enter will please hand in their names and subjects to J. A. Thames as soon as they make a selection.

The Eumenean Society held its regular meeting Saturday night, November 3. The subject of debate was: Resolved, That the States of the United States should adopt the Initiative, Referendum, and Recall. Liston, Thames, and Good upheld the affirmative. Cunningham, J. B. Woods, and H. Smith upheld the negative. The reasons brought out by the affirmative were: It refers the supreme decision to the people always; the weakness of the present system; the evolution of governments in the past has shown that it is the only true form of democracy. The negative contended that: (1) Those qualified to vote are capable of choosing one man to make their decisions; (2) it is unwieldy and impractical. The judges decided in favor of the negative; the house in favor of the affirmative.

Declamations were given by R. R. Craig, McCutcheon, and Byrd. Craig gave a good rendition of a speech by Patrick Henry. Byrd gave an excellent declamation, “Tasca,” a tale of the western plains. The second term officers were installed at this meeting. Bellingrath, the incoming president, gave a very instructive speech on “How to Debate.”C. A. consists of keeping the soldiers happy and contented in their spare time. It gives the soldier a touch of home while away from home, and keeps him in connection with the church while away from the church. Mr. Day then told how the Y. M. C. A. followed the men to France, to the front, and even to the first line trenches. “Thus it is a powerful factor in preserving the morale of the soldiers.” Mr. Day closed his address by telling of the need for more workers; America wants more, Italy wants more, Russia wants more. There is a need in all the Allies’ armies and prison camps. Because of the great work which the Y. M. C. A. is doing for humanity and because of the great need which exists for more workers, Mr. Day made a strong appeal to the students of Davidson College to seriously consider the Y. M. C. A. work as a means for serving our country.

Where Will a Little Bit Go a Long Way? $1.25 Invested in a subscription to The Davidsonian. If you don’t believe it, try it. The proof of the pudding is the eating thereof. Let us serve you a tempting portion every week throughout the college year. But how are we to know that you want us to continue sending the Davidsonian unless you send us $1.25 now?

WASTE PAPER WANTED BY THE CIVIC CLUB
If you have old magazines, pamphlets, newspapers, etc., kindly telephone Mrs. Earl Lathery, No. 31-J, and they will be sent for about November 22. Messrs. Goodrum & Co. have kindly offered the club the use of their baler, and papers collected will be sold for the benefit of the club. Save all paper. Your bit added to others will help to make a ton.

STUDENTS BEING TAUGHT THE MANUAL OF ARMS
A new phase of drilling will doubtless be introduced since the arrival of the guns last week. An adequate supply was ordered in order that every man taking military drill might have a gun. The uniforms are expected in the near future. The date upon which they should have arrived is passed, and this delay is caused probably on account of the congested freight conditions. When we have both our uniforms and our guns, we should have the appearance of a rather formidable enemy of Militarism.

Place your order for Engraved Cards for Senior Speaking Invitations
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
216 N. Tryon St.
O. J. THIES, Jr., Local Representative

Musical Homes Are Happy Homes
Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.
STIEFF
219 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily. First Class Vaudeville. YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.
In the Spalding line you have equipment that is right officially, high grade as to workmanship and durable in quality. SPALDING No. M BASKET BALL is guaranteed perfect in every detail.

Charlotte, N. C.
For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill.
Gilmer Moore Co.
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.
Rutledge Norton
Next door to Post Office.

LET THE DO YOUR PRESSING
Phone 69-J
Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Williamson & McDonald, Power House Agents

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. & L. Torrence: The Jeweler

The Wallace-Brough Co. have their TRIMMED VELOUR HATS reduced to cost. Also an attractive line of SHIRTWAISTS AND NECKWEAR.