2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Woods
H. M. Thomas, Jr.
A. P. Saunders

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF
Class of '18—J. B. Woods, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Johnson, Jr., W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, T. E. Guy, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

“Intensive Duty and Helpful Service” is an extract from the foreword to the student body by President Martin on September 13th. The hurry and worry and wait of the opening is past. The eighty-third session of Davidson College has begun. In its very beginning a spirit of intensity is manifest. When you hear students talk seriously of how hard they are going to work this year, you hear a thing which is altogether promising. The student body, though diminished by almost twenty-five percent of last year’s enrollment, is making plans for a full year’s good, honest work. There is a full faculty and they are entering upon their duties with a zest. Student body officers, editors, and managers have been elected to take the places of those-elect who did not return. In short, the various aspects of the college seem reanimated and invigorated. Much interest has been aroused by the department of Military Science. Its appreciation will be shown by the large numbers who take either the drill or the science. The degree of Bachelor of Arts is more popular because of the shifting of the classical languages. There is an A.B. 1 and an A.B. 2. The A.B. 1 is the same as the former A.B. The A.B. 2 corresponds to the former B.S. 1. However, in the diplomas, there will be no differentiation in the A.B. degrees. This ruling also applies to the upper classes. From all present indications, this is going to be a year characterized by genuine study such as probably has not been seen at Davidson in a long time. The zest with which the students enter upon their duties of this session may approach the sentiment of Ulysses: “And this gray spirit yearning in desire To follow knowledge like a sinking star, Beyond the utmost bound of human thought.”

ACTION VS. REACTION.
The general nationwide diminished enrollment in men’s colleges seems to be filling the women’s colleges with numbers such that have never before been known. The reasons for this are evident. Many men who would otherwise be in college are now “soldiers of freedom.” On the other hand, the girl whose education would, in many cases, be sacrificed, or partially so, for the training of the brother, is in college. The brother is now self-supporting and the family fund may now without limitation help the girl. This year marks decidedly a step in advance for the education of the girl.

DAVIDSONIAN, September 19, 1917

THE COLLEGE DIRECTORY.
The Y. M. C. A. annually edits and issues a Handbook containing the college directory and a great deal of information which is invaluable throughout the year and continuing through the entire college career. We see the need for an immediate directory. The Y. M. C. A. Handbook will not be out for about a month. The directory which the next issue will contain is not intended to be a substitute for the one which will be distributed later. Do not throw this away—file it and you will have many occasions to refer to it. The information given here is accurate, detailed, and first-hand. Probably some of this information will not be duplicated later, so keep this near you.

A SUGGESTION.
Many times each year applications come to us for back numbers of “The Davidsonian.” Many times we cannot supply them. Often do we hear a desireexpressed by a student that he had a complete volume of this paper. Freshmen, it would be well if you would take this advice—save your DAVIDSONIANS. Keep them on a file. Any member of the staff will be glad to show you how to make a unique binder. Begin now and save every issue scrupulously for four years. This will give a history of your college during your college career as nothing else can or will. This four-year volume will be a thing which you will treasure because it will afford you a source of satisfaction and pleasure extending to infinity.

Dr. Richards’ opening sermon was a masterly one. His thought was that what one is, is determined by his ideals. And that these ideals should be based in the Christian religion. Nothing could have been more fitting for one who is entering or pursuing a course which makes leaders requiring high and strong ideals.

THE NEW CLASS.

The class of 1921 consists of one hundred and two members. It is very probable that others will enter. This is a fine looking class of fellows who show up well. To this body, there seem to be strong men and leaders of thought and action. Its members are readily entering into literary, social, musical, athletic, and other aspects of college activities. Opinions from them have been heard as to their appreciation of the manner in which they were cordially welcomed into student life. They are already imbibing the Red and Black spirit. We welcome them heartily and wish them much success.

DR. FULTON RECOMMENDS GREEK SIX.

Greek Six or Greek Literature in English translation is a course which is again being given this year. Classes in this are just beginning and it is not too late to enter. This course is given by Dr. Harding, who has recently devoted special time and study to this course. It is a fine saying of Pinero’s that “the future is only the past again, entered through another gate.” One cannot possibly appreciate English and American literature unless a foundation is had. The thing upon which to build is a study of Greek literature—the outstanding one of all literatures. Their language was the first art production produced by the spontaneity of the Greek mind—with its marvelous sense of beauty and production. Dr. Fulton is enthusiastic in regard to this course and suggests that those deeply interested in literature take this Junior-Senior elective. Dr. Harding will make this a vitally interesting course. If you appreciate your own literature, orientate your mind and enter “the realms of gold” through the gates of the foundation.

Thrift, Not False Economy

To refrain from dressing properly, to pinch pennies, and lose dollars thereby, is not patriotic economy; it is false and expensive penury. To keep the nation’s business at top speed is a national need: do your bit by spending freely, but wisely. Avoid waste, but not normal comfort. Dress well and keep cheerful.

BUY A SUIT FROM
The Royal Tailors
Elliott & Childs, Agents

We have an Opening at No. 2 Rumple.
Thursday, September 20th

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
L. A. Elliott

Special attention given to “FEEDS.” Something good to eat ALL the time.

Let Your Fall and Winter Shoes Be WALK-OVERS
Watch for Display of Full Line of Samples Soon
MADDREY & THAMES, Agents for WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP
BEST SHOES FOR THE MONEY

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

Patronize our Advertiser FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If he hasn't it, Try the Other Fellow. Tell him that he has something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.