The DAVIDSONIAN
November 7, 1917

ALUMNI NOTES

The Alumni Catalog has received the following items with reference to the addresses and occupations of former students and graduates:

R. H. Jones, ’16, is teaching at Clemson College, S. C.
Robert Lee Morrow, ex-’16, is a civil engineer of High Point, N. C.
R. W. Graves, ex-’16, is located in Atlanta, his address being 469 Peachtree Street. He is a bookkeeper.
J. M. Wells, Jr., ex-’16, is engaged in the automobile business in Charleston, W. Va.
J. A. McWhirter, ex-’14, is manager of the Texas Oil Co., at Union, S. C.
Wm. L. Boggs, ex-'15, is physical director of the Y. M. C. A., at Staunton, Va.
R. P. Love, ex-'14, is clerk at the Hotel Galvez, Galveston, Tex.
A. R. Hooks, '15, is a cotton buyer, located at Burlington, N. C.
Jas. M. Williams, '14, who achieved considerable distinction while at Davidson as an intercollegiate debater, is a lawyer of El
Paso, Tex.
D. S. McCormick, '14, is Professor of English in Daniel Baker College, Brownwood, Tex.
A. L. Cavenaugh, ex-'14, is cashier of the Bank of Beulahville, N.C.
John C. Young, ex-'15, is President of Union Trust Co., Raleigh, N. C.
A. T. Cashion, ‘17, and C. H. Long, ex-’20, are working with the Standard Aero Corporation of Plainfield, N. J.,
in the construction of the new J-1 Tractor Scout Biplane.

A DAVIDSON HERO

The Library has received a copy of a small volume entitled, “Heroes of the Campus,” by Joseph W. Cochran, which
contains thirteen sketches of college men, leaders during their college life, who gave up their lives for others, either during
their course or shortly after graduation. Davidson and Maryville are the only Southern institutions represented, some of the others being
Yale, Oberlin, Cambridge, Williams, and Penn. State.

The Davidson sketch is that of David Yonan, who was of the class of '96. He was a Persian by
birth, but through his own ambition and influence of relatives, decided to come to America and complete his education. He
soon won for himself a leading place in college activities and in the esteem of his fellow students and faculty,
taking a prominent part in athletic, literary, and social activities both within and without the college walls. He won a
place on the varsity football team, and played tackle and halfback for three years, and was declared by coaches to
be one of the best in the South. Yonan made high grades throughout his college course, and in 1900 received
his degree of A.B. It was his purpose to enter a medical college that fall and later return to Persia
as a medical missionary. But during the summer his brilliant life was snuffed out.

He was spending the summer working in the neighborhood and was invited on a picnic given by the Sunday school,
on the banks of the Catawba River. During the afternoon a number of the picnickers went in bathing, and a
young medical student, Fred Hobbs, gave a call for help and was seen struggling in the water. Though he could
not swim, and though companions tried to keep him out of the deep water, Yonan sprang in without a moment's
hesitation, but was unsuccessful in his attempt to save the life of the drowning man, and sank after a brief
struggle. The bodies of the two students were subsequently recovered, and though every means was taken to resuscitate them, it
was in vain. “Heroes of the Campus” should prove both interesting and helpful to all who may read it.

Dr. R. C. Sample, ‘11, is chief resident physician at the Methodist Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.

A LETTER FROM “PEP.”

1st Co. 1st Pr. Br. Depot Br. Co., 80th Div., Camp Lee, Va.

Hello Fellows, how is every little thing down at the old “college?” Wish I could be there with you, though
I like camp life fine. We have about thirty-five thousand men here and will have sixty thousand here when all
of the men get here. It will then be the largest camp in the United States. I am in the
Depot Brigade, which is intended as a reserve for the infantry as they are put out of commission by the
cannon of the Huns. The Y. M. C. A. is doing a great deal of work in our camp. I
have tried to ally myself with thiswork but feel that I am very much handicapped by my lack of experience.
I am chairman of the Regimental Advisory Committee for the organization. The fact is, they need men in the ranks
who will stand up for what is right. Every man in the Davidson faculty and student body should be very
much at prayer for the men in the camps that they may be true and quit themselves like men. Last
Sunday W. G. Sommerville, 1st Lieutenant U. S. A., led our meeting. He had a strong message that went to
the hearts of all who were present. It was my privilege to preside at that meeting. On Thursday night I
led the meeting myself. It was a great trial, but I did my best. T. H. Sommerville, ex-'17, was here
when I arrived, but has been transferred to Massachusetts. “Fellows,” as I am out in the world and compare the
men I meet with the men I know at Davidson, I am very glad that I chose Davidson as my
college. With hopes that this will be a great year for the college in all its departments and with extra
good wishes for the athletic teams, the Y. M. C. A. and the old class of 1918, I am, Yours
cordially, Leslie H. Patterson, ex-'18.

DR. J. M. McCONNELL SPEAKS ON MARTIN LUTHER

The four hundredth anniversary of the birth of Protestantism was celebrated at the Presbyterian Church last Sabbath. Several hymns written
by Martin Luther, the pioneer leader of the movement, were sung, and Dr. J. M. McConnell delivered an address on
this great reformer. The speaker was introduced by Dr. W. J. Martin, who stated that the college, as well as
the church, should participate in the celebration. Dr. McConnell in opening remarked that it was pleasant to turn from a
study of Twentieth Century leaders in Germany to those great German leaders of the Sixteenth Century. The economic, intellectual, political,
social and religious life of the Sixteenth Century was briefly outlined by the speaker. He described Martin Luther as a
man whose outstanding characteristics were: (1) impulsiveness and positiveness in convictions; (2) energy and zeal; (3) courage. In speaking of
his achievements, four of the most momentous were mentioned: (1) breaking the domination of the Roman Catholic Church; (2) giving
the common people of Germany an open Bible; (3) giving new birth to the idea that religion is a real
part of the everyday life of every man, and (4) teaching that man is responsible to God as an individual.

Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete Line of College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

DO YOU KNOW—
that a SOFT COLLAR will last twice as long when steam laundered as when hand laundered? Well, it will! Ask
someone who has tried it. Let us do your SOFT COLLARS up once, and see if you are not 100
percent better satisfied.
THE CHARLOTTE LAUNDRY
A. S. POTTS, Agent
43 Chambers
Laundry collected every Thursday night

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO
The Service for the Discriminating Student

The Ben-Vonde Company
The South's Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. A. THAMES

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Students, Faculty
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
