The Gilmer-Moore Co. opening will be held here at an early date. Wait to see our line before you buy.
Have you seen our $2.50 Basketball and Tennis Shoe?

JOHNSON & POTTS
Representatives
No. 2 Rumple

“2-hour delivery”
Brown's
Something good to eat all the time
South Tryon

Good Coal
Reasonable Prices. Leave orders with cashier of Bank
C. L. GREY
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Steam Laundry
Oldest : Best
Laundry collected every Monday and delivered promptly. We will appreciate YOUR BUSINESS.
W. L. Douglas, Agent
7 Chambers

Quickest : Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Johnson & Potts, Agts
27 Chambers and 2 Rumple

Let Tobe Johnson Press Your Clothes
Oldest man on the job

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 7, 1917

Shoe Opening | Literary Societies | SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, February 10: “Resolved, That the commission form government should be established in towns with over 50,000 population.”
Eumenean—Affirmative: Price, J. G. Richards, Roddey, Shields. Negative: N. S. Richards, Solomons, Fraser.
Philanthropic—Affirmative: Peters, F. P. Hall, Siske, Williamson, Dawkins. Negative: Weber, Davis, R. H. Stone, L. G. Calhoun, Smith.

Declamations and Orations, Monday morning, February 12:
Eumenean—Declamations: Robson, G. M. Robson, Sullivan, E. A. Woods. Orations: Saunders, Thomas, J. B. Woods, J. R. Woods.
Philanthropic—Declamations: W. C. Worth, Andrews, Horner, Hamilton, L. L. McAlister, Faires, Currie, Spratt, Davenport. Oration: Campbell.

WEEKLY MEETINGS:
In the Philanthropic Society Saturday night the question, “Resolved, That the policy of non-resistance should be adopted by the United
States,” was discussed. The affirmative was upheld by Cumming, Foscue, and Worth; the negative by McDonald, Roberts, Fleming, and Boney.
The affirmative contended that non-resistance meant that the United States should not carry on aggressive warfare. In this way, they
would win the friendship of the other nations, and better maintain peace. The negative contended that non-resistance was a folly
at the present time, that resistance was necessary to our defense. The negative won the decision.

Owing to the cold weather, there was no meeting of the Phi society last Monday morning.

Saturday night in the Eumenean society the question, “Resolved, That a policy of non-resistance should be adopted by the United
States,” was upheld on the affirmative by McCloy, Allen, and McGirt; on the negative by Morton, Fraser, and Love. The
affirmative spent most of its time painting the horrors of war. One of the best points brought out by them,
however, was that in the word “policy” was meant that the United States would make it her rule not to
resist all petty disputes and insults and to go to war only as a last resort. The negative contended that
non-resistance is impracticable—being contrary to human nature; that it is morally wrong—causing other nations to infringe upon our rights and
making us submit to worse evils than war, and that it would cause our economic ruin. Both the society and
the judges decided in favor of the negative.

FIRE IN WATTS BUILDING SATURDAY NIGHT

At 7:30 Saturday night a large blaze was noticed in No. 1 Watts. Hurried investigation proved it to be the
beginning of what might have been a disastrous fire, had an alarm not been spread, which called a number of
students to the burning room. The regular occupants of the room were away at the time, but many of those
who assembled there brought with them vessels of water, with which they made quick work of the matter. The floor
in that part of the room was completely charred. The bureau, a trunk, and considerable clothing, probably including a suit,
were destroyed, and along with them a quantity of paper. The cause of the fire is not known.

Six suits for $1.00
L. B. PATTERSON, Representative

DR. D. H. ROLSTON ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.

Dr. D. H. Rolston, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the speaker at the Y. M. C.
A. meeting on last Thursday night, and his topic was “The Book of Hebrews.” The speaker began by giving a
short outline of the history of the book, its authorship, message, etc. He next devoted a few minutes...To a discussion
of the purpose of the book, stating that it was to serve to encourage and confirm the Christians who had
renounced Judaism for the new faith. He gave the “key word” as that admonition of the author to “hold fast,”
this expression being equivalent to “steadfast” and “patience.” The next point discussed was the application of the message of the
book to the Christian Church of today to hold fast to its calling and its faith in the face of
modern materialism and indifference. For a few minutes at the opening of the meeting, E. H. Hamilton briefly outlined the
history, scope, and purposes of the Pocket Testament League and announced the beginning of a canvass for pledges to the
league.

THE POCKET TESTAMENT CAMPAIGN

Last Sunday night a campaign was begun by the Ministerial Band to put the cause of the Pocket Testament League
before every student at Davidson. The men responded readily, and over a hundred have agreed to form the habit of
carrying a Testament and reading at least a chapter each day. A few of these men already belonged to the
league, but the majority are newly enlisted. The Pocket Testament League is a world-wide organization of those who agree to
read a portion of the Bible daily and carry a Testament or Bible about with them. The aim of the
league is to strengthen Christians and to win the unsaved to Christ. Many college and university men over the country
have, through the league, armed themselves with the sword of the Spirit. Any other Davidson men wishing to join the
Pocket Testament League can secure membership cards and pocket Testaments from E. H. Hamilton, 12 Rumple, or G. C. Bellingrath,
60 Chambers.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB HOLDS MEETING

The last meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club was held at the home of Mrs. C. L. Grey on last
Friday afternoon. The topic for the meeting was: “The Psychological Short Story.” The meeting was led by Mrs. Johnston, who
was assisted by Mrs. Arbuckle and Mrs. A. Currie. The stories read and discussed were: “They,” by Kipling; “Markheim,” by
Stevenson; and “A Piece of String,” by De Maupassant. All agreed that the afternoon had been very pleasantly and profitably
spent.

ANNUAL STAFF BUSY

The 1917 “Quips and Cranks” will be published as usual, with this exception—it will be out on time. The editor-in-chief
and his associates are working energetically, and this year’s Annual promises to be one of unusual merit. The artwork and
photographs are already in the hands of the engraver, and the staff is working hard to get the rest of
the material off at an early date. The staff is especially desirous of obtaining as many varied and novel ideas
as possible, and any suggestions will be greatly appreciated.

Dr. R. H. McLaughlin
DENTIST
413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

SHERIDAN’S TEACHERS’ AGENCY

Special service for North Carolina teachers and schools. Under management of experienced teachers. Personal attention, business methods, reasonable terms. For
Register and New Manual, address:
Sheridan's Teachers’ Agency
Charlotte, N.C.

THE BRADY PRINTING COMPANY

Does All Kinds of Printing for college men. Prompt delivery a Specialty.
Statesville, N.C.

Gilbert & Patterson

REAL CONTENTMENT

Is not to be had unless one knows he LOOKS as well as he FEELS. We do not sponsor “freak”
styles but we DO show the newest whims of exclusive tailoring which is always in good taste.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON Representatives

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina. You are cordially invited to inspect our premises.
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods.

FORD TRIP to CHARLOTTE, MOORESVILLE, ANYWHERE—ANYTIME.
CALL WHITE DRUG CO.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
John L. Douglas, Pres., S. W. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited.

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men.
