&

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 21, 1917

writer.
tion in American literature.

The volume, published by The Century Company, is neatly and handsomely arranged. It is indeed “A gift book for all
those interested in the best of American poetry.”

...Go to...

Armour Bro.’s & Thompson’s for Dr. Munsing’s Army Last Black Shoes

Dr. M. G. Fulton, Professor of English Language and Literature, at Davidson College. Co-editor of Manual of Exercises in English
Composition, 1905; author of Expository Writing, 1912; College Life—Its Conditions and Problems, 1914; co-editor of Questions on Readings in English
Literature, 1915; author of Southern Life in Southern Literature, 1916; co-editor of Christmas Night in the Quarters, 1917.

CHRISTMAS NIGHT IN THE QUARTERS

Dr. Fulton’s recent contribution to American Literature, “Christmas Night in the Quarters,” gets its title from a poem which the
volume contains. This is a collection of forty poems by Irvin Russell. Five poems of this collection have only appeared
in newspapers when they were written, hence unknown to literature; and three have never before been published. The volume is
prefaced by an introduction by Joel Chandler Harris. There are dispersed throughout the pages twenty-nine pen and pencil sketches by
E. W. Kemble.

The most unique feature of the book is a biographical sketch by Dr. Fulton, who, being a Mississippian, is not
interested in the poet of negro dialect because of his being from Mississippi, but rather because “his poems possess the
vitality of genius.”

Had the life of this poet of promise been lengthened, his recent editor says that “he might have made a
deeper mark on American literature, though he could not have made a more original impress than he had already done
through the deep poetic vision that saw pathos and humor and beauty in the humble life that others had condemned.”

Dr. Fulton’s sketch is marked by his fine scholarship and his research into the facts of his life. “To best
know and appreciate the works of a man it is necessary to know the formative influence and some of the
leading facts of the life. In this book, as in his courses, he makes the sketch interesting and not burdened
with details. It is comprehensive in that it gives just what you should know—the remainder is happily unsaid.

Many men of literary genius have pitifully had lives which were marred by sin and weaknesses. Russell was not immune.
Dr. Fulton is sympathetic and gives a psychological analysis of his defects in that of “his realization of the losing
struggle between his higher nature with its many attractive and lovable qualities and his lower nature which particularly manifested itself
in a craving for stimulants.”

The negro of whom we learned on our grandmother’s knee is almost extinct. There will never be such a devoted
and lovable set of negroes as those who loved our grandparents as they loved their own children. They must not
be forgotten. The old-time darkey will long be remembered through the thumbnail character sketches in Russell’s poems. The treatment of
this black creature is not to “enhance old Southern life,” but rather to present his character, which presentation is probably
not equaled by any other.

DENTAL SURGEON

Office over Bank Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

Z. K. JUSTICE

Southern Railway System

14 N. Tryon Street

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

224 S. TRYON ST.

The Bank of Davidson

DAVIDSON, N.C.

Does Commercial Business Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is solicited

John L. Douglas, Pres., W.H. Thompson, Cashier J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cashier

A. H. Fetting

Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Reaches QUICKLY and Conveniently, With Frequent and Splendidly Equipped Trains

All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST

All THROUGH TRAINS

Pullman Sleeping Cars and Dining Car Service On

Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points

Special Attention Given To Athletic Trips

For detailed information call on or write

S. E. BURGESS, Division Passenger Agent, Charlotte, N.C.

Presbyterian Theological Seminary Louisville, Kentucky

Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life
for students.

Write the President Charles R. Hemphill

Kodak Developing CUSHMAN’S STUDIO

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

L. C. BRAND. 77 Chambers

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

COOPER’S for QUALITY

WE extend a special invitation to the men and young men of Davidson, N.C. to visit our store while in
Charlotte.

We carry a complete line of Suits and Overcoats, in the latest styles and models, also conservative models.

Prices: $12.50, $15.00, $20.00 & $25.00

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

JACK TAR

IS MADE WITH THIS OVAL BUTTONHOLE

A NEW STYLE IN COLLARS

OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA UNITED SHIRT & COLLAR CO. TROY, N.Y.

If it’s FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want

Thies-Smith Realty Co., Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Thos. E. Wilson & Co.

Unconditionally guarantee all their sporting goods and athletic equipment to give the satisfactory service which you think they should give.
We leave the decision to you. Your own sense of fair play decides. Our dealers are authorized to abide by
your judgment, and to adjust any claim you make.

Official and Standard Athletic Equipment

Be sure you find the Wilson trademark on your

Football Equipment, Basketball equipment, Sweaters, Shoes, Indoor League Balls, Bats and Equipment, Golf Clubs, Golf Balls and Equipment, Tennis, Track
and Gymnasium Equipment, Fishing Tackle, etc.

MECKLENBURG and STONEWALL AT CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Rates: $1.00 and Up J. P. SAUNDERS, President
