2 The DAVIDSONIAN. April 4, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson... Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The Reporters for this issue are: T. Dunlap, Jr., T. E. Guy, M. A. Tremain, W. Love, T. C. Stone, N. Y. Pharr, R. T. Liston, W. C. Neel, C. Howell, N. V. Morton, H. T. Lilly, E. N. Booker, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. A. Campbell, L. G. Calhoun, F. P. Hall, J. F. McClerkin.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

Are you going home Easter? Hope you have a pleasant trip. Be sure and boost Davidson.

More things are wrought by system than college students dream of. It is a good plan to work it in your study—have a routine.

The Davidsonian was born on April 1st four years ago. But it was not an April Fool.

Jokes were once “cracked,” but now they seem to be almost universally “pulled.”

DEBATING.
The month of April brings a great deal of extra classroom activity. Fourteen baseball games are scheduled. The inter-collegiate debates with Roanoke and Emory colleges are ahead. Also, the Society contests are to be held. On April 9th the Freshmen and Sophomores meet in congressional and convention halls and say that the Federal Government should and should not own interstate railroads. On the 16th Juniors and Seniors take a trip to South America and discuss the Monroe Doctrine.

ITS PLACE.
College debating is a great intellectual sport. It has much of the same charm and absorbing interest as do the athletic contests. The men composing the two inter-collegiate teams should have as much support from the student body as it gives the athletic teams in facing their hardest competitors on the gridiron or on the diamond. These men have given weeks of preparation for a contest which will last only two hours. But the favorable results will mean for the college another group of laurels to add to her crown of oratorical trophies. It will greatly advertise the institution. Let's go with our teams to victory.

RESULTS.
Debating is a form of sport which is intensely a builder—a mind broadener. The student who enters these contests with the proper initiative and spirit is the one who gets a training that is invaluable. To be informed on the great questions of the day, though great is this accomplishment, is, perhaps, the least that is attained. One is given training in constructive thinking—he thinks accurately and then compresses these thoughts clearly and forcibly. He acquires a wonderful facility in the field of expression. It is often the stepping-stone to leadership. It is truly a contest—and brings out the best in a fellow.

All those who can are urged to enter these Society contests. Often the Junior or Senior is heard bewailing his fate because he did not enter the debate during his Fresh and Soph years. The experience of others is not always a good teacher. Freshmen especially should profit by this and begin the first year in literary society aright. One has said that to see college forensics at its best one must go to the small college, the home of virility and spirit. If you ever expect to take a part in this activity at its best, begin now.

NOTICE.
Several of our subscribers have reported to the Circulation Manager that they have failed to get certain issues of The Davidsonian. This is due to the fact that sometimes the machine used to address them fails to work. If you do not receive an issue of The Davidsonian, write a postal card to the Circulation Manager, O. C. Williamson, and you will be mailed a copy. This applies to those receiving complimentary issues as well as regular subscribers.

Y. M. C. A. PLANS AN EXCHANGE OF TEACHERS
The new Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has under discussiona plan to add interest to the mission Sunday schools. The plan is not yet fully worked out, but in its present form the proposal is that the teachers of classes of similar ages shall exchange places for one Sunday from time to time, the visiting teacher possibly making a talk in the school which he visits. The interval at which these visits shall take place has not been decided upon. It is hoped that this plan, if carried out, will provide a very interesting and helpful deviation from the regular routine.

BOOK LOVERS' CLUB MEETS WITH MRS. FULTON

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained last Friday by Mrs. M. G. Fulton. At this meeting, Prof. A. Currie gave a very interesting talk on “The Quality in Writing That Makes it Live,” illustrating with selections from Mark Twain and George Ade. This talk was very appropriate for the occasion and was an enjoyed addition to the interesting features of the afternoon. In the election of new officers, Mrs. M. G. Fulton was elected President; Mrs. C. L. Grey was elected Vice-President, and Miss Maude Vinson was elected Secretary. The subject for study during 1917-18, as decided upon, is “The Ottoman Empire.”

CAMPUSSISMS.

D. S. Epps, '19, left on Monday for Kingstree, S. C., to recuperate from his recent illness.
* * *
J. M. Cloud, ex-’16, of Hamlet, was among the visitors to the Saturday ball game.
* * *
R. U. Woods, ex-’19, is on the Hill.
* * *
T. H. Spence, ‘19, is confined to the Infirmary by sickness.
* * *
Walker Carter and Guy Hill, both of Mt. Airy, were on the Hill Saturday and Sunday. Walker Carter is the brother of R. C. Carter, ‘19.

This notice.

A Little Different

216 N. Tryon St. Phone 643

Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his office. We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to lend every effort possible to satisfy a customer absolutely. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Let us quote you prices on any printing that is ordinarily—or extraordinarily—used in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

W. H. NEAL
Davidson Representative

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

ARROW SMITH COLLARS
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

L. B. Patterson, Representative

Tate’s Barber Shop

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN-KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats :: Fruits and Candies :: BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES, FANCY GROCERIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STEEL CREEK PARTY VISITS DAVIDSON

At the invitation of the Steele Creek Club, a party of fourteen from Steele Creek came to Davidson last Saturday afternoon for the baseball game, and to give those who had not been here before an opportunity to become acquainted with the college. The boys brought a good supply of “eats” from home, which with a slight supplement, furnished a “feed” that would have satisfied the most fastidious epicure.

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Baseball. Get supplied at THE COMMISSARY.