2 The Davidsonian

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 14, 1917

Diploma as valuable as any other. And all these things will come, simply because they are fundamentally just.

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 29 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price..........- Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames....... Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Wood
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
W. C. Neel, C. P. Karriker, C. Hunter, O. C. Williamson, E. A. Woods, G. A. Byrd, Jr., C. Howell, E. G. Lilly, R. E. McClure, H. W. Summerville, C. W. Foreman, J. K. Hobson, R. D. Hall, and T. N. Morton.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
J. C. Paisley..... Circulation Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

PROPHECY.

The thoughts and views of humanity as a whole are gradually veering around to that which is basically practical and just. Nowhere is this better shown than in the evolution of the college. The antiquated college with its strict requirements of the classics and mathematics, though they developed the man, did not fit him for the needs of the world. The present-day college is striving to suit its products to their place in the world and is shaping its curriculum accordingly. New and practical subjects have been introduced. And the day is not far off when the graduate in mechanics will be considered as highly educated as the man that can recite Homer.

This is an age of justice and practicability. The aesthetic is minimized. Man is coming to see that he has to resort to the fundamental purpose and causes in decisions and policies, as much as he does to a common denominator in adding fractions. The day will come, we believe, when a science with several hours of laboratory will count more on the college curriculum than an easy subject without laboratory work. In other words, some day four hard “tickets” with several hours of laboratory work will go as far toward a diploma as six or seven “crips.” Why? Because it is fundamentally just that if as much time and effort is spent on one as the other, they should get the same amount of credit for it. In like manner, those graduating from Literary Societies will need one subject less for a college diploma than non-society students, for it is just that that work should receive recognition. Also, editors of publications, inter-collegiate debaters, and other officers in the student body will receive credit for their work in their college curriculum, because they get training in efficiency and responsibility as well as mental development, and that is the real purpose of a college education, no matter what the process.

This is no plea that the students with outside work should have their studies lightened. It is a plea for justice against those who take easy subjects and squeeze by the passing grade, and yet get a diploma as valuable as any other.

Y. M. C. A. HEARS STIRRING ADDRESS

On the interesting and timely subject of “My Religion and My Country,” the Rev. S. H. Hay, pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Mooresville, addressed the Y. M. C. A. on Thursday night. The speaker stated it as his belief that the United States had been raised up for some distinct purpose in the world, just as the Jewish race had produced the Messiah. The purpose in view for the United States, as it seems now, was to proclaim religious, civil, and personal liberty to mankind and to awaken, by her example, a spirit of national altruism in the nations of the world, as well as to give the Gospel of Jesus Christ to those whom it is possible for her to reach.

As illustrations of the working out of this purpose, the establishment of this country on principles of freedom, the examples that it has set for other nations intheir dealings with each other, and its work in spreading the Gospel among its immigrants, were all cited. In closing, Mr. Hay expressed the hope that in this time of crisis, when the civilization of the western hemisphere hangs practically by a thread, the people of the nation would approach their duty to God and country with thoughtfulness, confidence, spiritual patriotism, and prayer, in order that we may do only what is right and best for the nation, whatever that may be.

NEW PROFESSOR IS SECURED BY FACULTY

Graves Howard Cortledge, ‘11, A.B., M.A. (Davidson), Ph.D. (University of Chicago), is to be Associate Professor of Chemistry and Physics, according to a recent announcement by the Faculty. Dr. Cortledge was Acting Professor of Chemistry at Davidson during the year 1912-13. Since leaving Davidson, he has been a student at the University of Chicago, and then Professor of Chemistry and Physics in the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. Next year he will take charge of Physics I; Chemistry II (in part); Chemistry III; and such other work in Chemistry as will be decided on later.

DR. CLARK TO HOLD MEETING NEXT WEEK

Rev. Dr. J. M. Clark will hold a meeting here next week in the local Presbyterian church. Dr. Clark, who graduated at Davidson in 1886, has been for a number of years a minister and evangelist in Oklahoma, but has recently returned to this, his native State, and is now Evangelist and Superintendent of Home Missions in the Presbytery of Concord, making his home at Hickory. He is to preach at 2:20 in the afternoon and at 7:30 in the evening each day next week in the village church. It seems especially appropriate that these services should be held on the week beginning with the prayer for schools and colleges. It is hoped that the students and town people will all take a vital interest in these services and make this a season of real revival.

MATRICULATION FIGURES

Students matriculated at Davidson, from 1827 to 1917, which includes the class of 1920, 4,728. Of this latter group, 16 have died. The number matriculating during the ten-year period which closes with 1916-17 is 1,866.

Presbyterian Standard
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be the same as those who have—SATISFIED.

216 N. Tryon St. Phone 643
Co. “Every Job a Good One”

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants at

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. Patterson, Representative from the COMMISSARY

Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

The BERWICK
ARROW Form Fit COLLARS are curve cut to fit the shoulders perfectly. 15 cents each, 2 for 25 cents
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. Makers

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Holeproof Hosiery
“Red Ball” Overshoes :: General Merchandise
Schloss Clothing

BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips

L. B. LONG.
The Southern Serves the South
R. S. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.

Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
:: Fruits and Candies ::
FANCY GROCERIES

Quality Counts — That’s why we have stuck to our policy of making only the Best Athletic Supplies for all these years.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

Alex. Taylor & Co.
THE COMMISSARY
Philadelphia