THE DAVIDSONIAN
Vol. V.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 1, 1917.
No. 1

Some of Davidson’s Representatives at Oglethorpe, First Camp

Dr. T. W. Lingle Goes To France
Will Enter the Y.M.C.A. Work Among French Troops.

Dr. T. W. Lingle announced last week that he had decided to enter the Y.M.C.A. work among the French forces.
He has left his home in Montreat for New York, on his way to France. His decision coming at such
a time necessitates many changes, and for this reason, it is impossible to publish the schedule of recitations in this
issue as the management had hoped to do.

At a meeting of the executive committee of Davidson College on the 27th of this month, it was decided to
request Dr. C. R. Harding to teach the German. Prof. Macon Reed will therefore have charge of Greek I, II,
and III, if the present plans turn out as expected. This will not result in any loss of efficiency, but
many changes will have to be made in the schedule before it can be announced.

Dr. Lingle is well qualified for his work abroad. He has traveled extensively in several of the foreign countries, including
France and Germany. He received the degree of Ph.D. from the University of Leipsic. He speaks both French and German
fluently and understands the characteristics of the French people. We regret very much to lose Dr. Lingle from the faculty,
but wish him much success in his newly-chosen field of endeavor. His address will be Avenue Montaigne 31, Paris, France.
Mrs. Lingle has also offered her services and been accepted. She will either accompany Dr. Lingle or follow him in
the near future.

MISS MAY WILLIAMS.
Miss May Williams, for some time a dean of one of the hospitals in Charlotte, died on the 27th of
August in Davidson. She was a member of one of the oldest and most respected families of Davidson.

Alumni Gymnasium Nearing Completion
Contractor to Finish His Work This Week.

Mr. L. S. Bradshaw will complete his portion of the work by the first of September. The Gym will measure
up to the full expectation of the old men and will be a delight to both them and the new
men. The main floor, which is of maple scraped to a smooth surface, is large enough to accommodate two basketball
games at the same time. A wide balcony extends around three sides of the Gym, furnishing ample room for the
spectators.

On the main floor with the Gym are four rooms, which will be used as auxiliary gymnasium, director's office, and
physical examination rooms. On the top floor, there is a large room for classroom or instruction purposes and two dormitory
rooms for the use of the athletic director. In the basement, one finds a kitchenette, a storeroom, a janitor’s room,
a room for the visiting team and faculty, a Varsity team room, a rubbing room, a general shower room, a
room for washing uniforms, and a boiler room. The building is of the colonial type and is built of red
brick. The equipment is to be modern and up-to-date in every detail.

Davidson To Have Football Team
Schedule Of Games As Given

Dr. Martin Writes Letter To Students
Urges Them To Prepare Now ForTO THE NEW MEN.

You will be met at the train by committeemen of the Reception Committee of Y. M. C. A., who will
introduce you to Dr. Martin and the Registrar. For any desired information, ask the men with the badges.

J. B. Darrin, Chairman.

Responsibilities.

In spite of the fact that the University of Virginia and many other schools have cancelled all inter-collegiate athletic engagements,
Davidson is to have a football season. The authorities announce that in so far as the contestants do not cancel
the games, the following schedule of games will be played:

Sept. 29—Georgetown U., at Washington, D. C.
Oct. 5—A. and M., at Raleigh, N. C.
Oct. 13—Georgia Tech., at Atlanta, Ga.
Oct. 20—V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
Oct. 27—V. M. I., at Danville, Va.
Nov. 3—Furman U., at Greenville, S. C.
Nov. 10—University of N. C., at Winston-Salem, N. C.
Nov. 17—Wake Forest, at Greensboro, N. C.
Nov. 22—Wofford, at Davidson, N. C.
Nov. 29—Clemson, at Charlotte, N. C.

TRAIN SCHEDULE.

Several changes have been made in the schedule of trains passing through Davidson, so the present schedule is given in
a desire to aid you to reach here with the least possible inconvenience and delay.

Trains northbound leave Charlotte at 4:25 a.m., 7:50 a.m., and 6:10 p.m. Arrive at Davidson at 5:15 a.m., 8:44 a.m.,
and 7:03 p.m.
Trains southbound leave Winston-Salem at 6:15 a.m., arrive at Davidson at 8:44 a.m.
Trains southbound leave Statesville at 10:25 a.m. and 6:55 p.m. Arrive at Davidson at 11:19 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

You are either returning or coming for the first time to Davidson College under very unusual conditions prevailing in our
country and the world at large. In the name of the college, I give you all a most cordial welcome.
College will move on much as usual, but with, I hope, a much more serious undercurrent of devotion to duty
on the part of all connected with the institution.

Educated men will be at a premium during the next generation. Grave responsibilities will rest upon them. The times call
for every man who has the opportunity to get an education to seriously pursue the courses involved in his intellectual
training and prepare for the hard work of the future. Splendid physical manhood is called for. Everyone should go into
“training” of some proper sort. Moral and spiritual fibre of the finest sort must be woven through and through the
life of these future leaders if “Democracy is to be made safe for the world.”

Davidson offers you the best, it is for you to take advantage of it from the start. Let’s train ourselves
to meet every duty and every responsibility in the classroom and on campus in the light of these things and
“quit ourselves like men.”

Captain Lea, of Timmonsville, S. C., graduate of the Citadel, in Charleston, S. C., is to be in charge of
the gymnasium and military training. Drill will be required of Freshmen and Sophomores unless parents object, in which case equivalent
gymnasium work will be substituted. Captain Lea was captain of the cadets at the Citadel and comes highly recommended.

J. A. Thames, ’18, and R. C. Carter,

(Continued on page 4)
