The DAVIDSONIAN Vol. IV.

Fine Record Continues | Sophs and Juniors Tie | News and Happenings | In Varsity Basketball; In Opening Class Game

Red and Black Quint is now on a | Neither Team was able to Cross | Social and Personal Items
About Seven Day Trip

CHARLOTTE GAME.

The Davidson team made it three straight in their series with the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. when they defeated
that team at Charlotte Friday night by a score of 49 to 34. The game was much faster and more
exciting than the other two. Davidson was handicapped by having Childs and Wood out of this game, but Murray, who
played left forward, proved himself a good running mate for King, caging six baskets and playing all-round fast ball. George
King led the scoring with 18 points to his credit. Marsh was the particular star for Charlotte. The C. H.
S.-Horner teams played an exciting game before the big game and between halves, the final score being 20-12. The line-up
was as follows:

CHARLOTTE. POSITION. DAVIDSON.
Marsh (12) .......... King (18) Forwards.
Hunter (8) .......... Murray (12)
Howell (C) (8) ...... Hengeveld (C) (8) Center.
Crook (2) .......... Walker
Beadle (4) .......... Reese (11) Guards.

Fouls—Howell 6 out of 12; Reese 4 out of 5. Time of Halves: 20 minutes. Referee: Graham.

STETSON GAME.

The Davidson five registered another victory Wednesday night when they met the team representing Stetson University, of Florida, on the
local floor, the final score being 47 to 14. The game was fast and hard fought throughout, notwithstanding the one-sided
score. Fast field work and long and difficult shots, made usually by the local team, furnished many thrills to the
spectators, who were loud and impartial in their applause. This game was especially interesting to the students as it gave
them their last opportunity of seeing their team in action before leaving on their long trip through the State. For
Davidson, King was in his best form, making 18 of his team’s 47 points. Captain Hengeveld, Reese, and Murray, the
latter playing his first game on the home floor, each succeeded in adding materially to the score, pulling off many
difficult shots. Walker played his usual steady game at guard. Childs and Wood were both out of the game with
injuries. Childs, however, accompanied the team Monday and will probably be able to play at least a part of every
game. Wood will be able to join the team Friday and take part in the closing games of the trip.
For Stetson, Rutherford at center was the especial star, with Captain Bailey and Finley sharing honors. The line-up was as
follows:

DAVIDSON. POSITION. STETSON.
King .......... White
Murray .......... Miller Forwards.
Hengeveld (C) .......... Rutherford Center.
Reese .......... Bailey (C)
Walker .......... Caro Guards.

(Continued on page 4)

Goal in Saturday’s Contest

The inter-class football season opened Saturday, when the Junior and Sophomore teams battled to a scoreless tie. The game was
hard fought throughout, and proved interesting in many parts, although lack of practice handicapped both teams. Both teams threatened to
score at several stages, but neither developed enough punch to make the threat good. The Sophs showed up to better
advantage in advancing the ball and gained more ground, but the Junior line held at critical points. During much of
the time the ball see-sawed from 25-yard line to 25-yard line, and exchanges of punts were frequent. Both teams showed
unusually good class ball material, and should, with a week’s more practice, put up a much higher class exhibition in
the coming games. The Juniors furnished no particular luminaries, but showed better teamwork. “Bob” Jones was the chief offensive factor,
running his team well, while Captain Richardson and Clark were especially effective on the defense. For the Sophs, “Floss” White
was in a class by himself. He did about two-thirds of the defensive work of his team and proved a
good ground gainer also. Captain Johnson was the particular offensive star, pulling off many long runs. “Pat” Robson at quarter
ran his team well, in spite of the freely given and confident advice urged upon him by his generous teammates.
“McAskill showed up especially well at end. The line-up was as follows:

JUNIORS. POSITION. SOPHS.
Richardson .......... LE .......... Boswell
Finley .......... LT .......... Poole
Davis .......... LG .......... C. W. Worth
L. W. Clark .......... C .......... R. R. Clarke
Conoly .......... RG .......... W. T. Johnson
Fraser .......... RT .......... Knight
Thames .......... RE .......... McAskill
Patterson .......... LH .......... Alexander
Armstead .......... RH .......... I. M. Johnson
Therrell .......... FB .......... White
Jones .......... QB .......... Robson

Substitutions—Juniors: Mebane for Davis, Fowle for Therrell, Therrell for Fowle, Overton for Jones. Sophs: Currie for W. T. Johnson. Referee:
Sayad. Umpire: Keesler.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

Among the one hundred books received at the Library since Christmas, the following should prove especially interesting to the students:
Ten volumes of “Silliman’s Lectures,” presented by Yale University; twelve volumes “Every Man's Encyclopedia;” “Humorous Masterpieces from American Literature;” “Brazil,”
by Pierre Denis; “The Making of the Nations—South America,” by W. H. Koebel; “Selling Latin America,” by W. E. Aughinbaugh.
The Everyman’s Encyclopedia is a small encyclopedia handy for a student's bookshelf. The articles are concise, accurate andWell up-to-date, and
although written from the English standpoint, the work is general in scope, and a fair amount is given to American
subjects.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., JANUARY 31, 1917.

Of the Week in Town the Town People.

Miss Francis Worth has gone to Washington to visit her aunt and will not return for several weeks.

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Allison were guests of Miss Lizzie Young last week.

Dr. Edward McConnell of Gastonia is visiting his brothers in Davidson.

Mr. J. Lee Sloan has returned from Richmond, Va., where he was called to the bedside of his daughter, Mrs.
Currie.

Mrs. Bone has returned from Charlotte, where she underwent an operation for appendicitis.

The women of the Missionary Society of the Presbyterian Church held their annual praise meeting last Thursday night in the
rooms of the Civic League Hall. The feature of the meeting was an address by Miss Edmania Martin, of Pernambuco,
Brazil. Miss Martin remained through the weekend as the guest of Mrs. C. L. Grey.

The Camp Fire Girls are planning to give a play—"Anita’s Trial," on the 17th of February.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet next Friday afternoon. The meeting will be in charge of Mrs. Jackson and Mrs.
Nola Johnson. The topic is “Stories of Psychology,” and the following will be discussed: “They,” by Kipling; “Markheim,” by Stevenson;
“Piece of String,” by Maupassant.

MOTION PICTURE LECTURE SECURED BY COLLEGE.

The next in the series of college lectures and entertainments will be given in Shearer Hall Friday, February 2nd, at
6:45. This will consist of two films of motion pictures: “From Cloth to Suit,” and “Trails in the Canadian Rockies.”
These films are shown through the courtesy of the Bureau of Commercial Economics, of Washington. These pictures will be shown
here but once, and no doubt will be very interesting and instructive. No admission will be charged, and the public
is cordially invited. The time for presenting is from one-half to three-fourths of an hour, thus making it possible for
every man in the student body to see the pictures with the expenditure of a minimum of time. During the
rest of the season, there will be several other interesting productions sent here by this bureau.

At a meeting of the Polity Club last night, L. A. Chambliss gave an able review of “Social Progress and
the Darwinian Theory,” by Nasmythe. This book shows the fallacy of the argument set forth by certain propagandists that war
is an institution for the existence of society. The review was clear in style, so that all of the author’s
main contentions were clearly grasped.

No. 16 Seniors Defeat Fresh Monday on Muddy Field Successful Forward Pass Brings Home the Bacon

Last Monday afternoon in the second game of the class football series, the Seniors defeated the Fresh by the score
of 6 to 0. It was close and hotly contested during all stages, and it seemed as if neither side
would win until the last. The game was played on a muddy field, which kept both sides from doing their
best. It was in the last thirty seconds of the game when the Seniors recovered a fumble and W. P.
Keesler threw a forward pass to Mattison, who ran thirty yards for a touchdown. For the Seniors, Mattison, Miller, and
McMillan were the outstanding stars, while Sizer and Leyburn did exceedingly well for the Fresh. The following was the line-up:

SENIORS. POSITION. FRESH.
Ormand........ RE ........ Moore
McKinnon...... RT ........ Leyburn
Brown.......... RG ........ Fetzer
Miller.......... C ........ Inman
Mann........... LG ........ Morton
Hughes......... LT ........ McMaster
Mattison....... LE ........ D. Watt
McKeithen...... QB ........ Sizer (C)
W. P. Keesler (C) RH ....... McAskill
Ratchford...... LH ........ Harris
McMillan....... FB ........ Richards

Referee: Black. Umpire: Burns. Headlinesman: Shaw. Substitutions—Seniors: Craig for Ratchford, Fresh: Taylor for Harris.

PRELIMINARIES HELD FOR DEBATING TEAMS

The preliminary contests for the intercollegiate debating teams were held Monday night in the Philanthropic and Eumenean Society Halls. The
query discussed was “Resolved, That the employers and employees of public service corporations should be compelled to settle their disputes
by arbitration.” In the Philanthropic Society, those competing were: on the affirmative, Fowle, Thames, Karriker, and Neal; on the negative,
Ratchford, Webber, Rankin, and Cumming. In the Eumenean, the affirmative was composed of Cousar, Eikel, and Flynn; the negative, of
Patterson, Bellingrath, Woods, and Potts. A committee of three from the Faculty selected four men from each society, who will
compete in the finals on February 12th, when two teams of two men each will be selected from the eight
contestants. Those who won in the Phi Society were Neal, Ratchford, Thames, and Webber, with Fowle as alternate; in the
Eu, Bellingrath, Cousar, Eikel, and Patterson were selected, with Woods as alternate. The query that will be used in the
finals is “Resolved, That the United States should adopt a system of universal compulsory military service,” which subject will be
used in the debate with Roanoke College.

SENIOR SPEAKING “REPS.”
J. H. Eikel, E. H. Hamilton,
W. H. Neal, C. F. Rankin.
