The DAVIDSONIAN
November 28, 1917

Prepare for Senior Speaking
GET THAT SUIT DRY CLEANED
The Ben-Vonde Co.
CINCINNATI

MAN Jurd’s ball on own 20-yard line. Ellerbe failed around right end. Forward pass, Ellerbe to Keaton, cleared 5 yards.
Ellerbe punted 30 yards. Ball fumbled by D. C. Wofford recovers. Wofford's ball on Davidson's 45-yard line. Carmichael gained 1
yard over center. Attempted pass, Ellerbe to Burnett, intercepted by Shaw, who returned 8 yards. Time out for Wofford. Burns
hit center for 4 yards and Spann made it first down around right end. Spann failed to gain.

Dr. Tompkins, of Cincinnati, gave the address at the Y. M. C. A. on last Thursday night. He presented three
main lines of thought. In the first place, God's omnipotence—although God is omnipotent He can do nothing without man’s help.
This limitation must be placed upon God in order to see His real power. His power is proportional to the
limitation placed upon Him. As long as man sits with his hands folded God can accomplish nothing. Man must be
a co-worker with God. What is the force of God in the life of the average man? Some people consider
God as a very indefinite being, far remote from them and having no concern about them. The force of God
in a man’s life is just what the individual makes Him. Man with God’s help can do anything. The power
of God must be great when He has all the planets moving in such great harmony. Yet He fashions the
shape of every snowflake. So He certainly must feel an interest in man. A person who tries to guide his
life without God’s help is like a man who tries to run a train without first having taken lessons in
engineering. Man will be brought to account for all that is entrusted in his hands. It is his choice whether
to guide it in the right direction or to wreck it. Which are you doing?

Flowers made 3 yards around left end. Davidson penalized 10 yards. Burns could not gain around left end. L. McAlister
made 9 yards over tackle. Spann thrown for 5-yard loss by Earle. Flowers failed in an attempt for a field
goal. Wofford brought the ball out to her 20-yard line. Carmichael fumbled. Ellerbe punted 48 yards, Flowers received fair catch.
Davidson's ball on own 30-yard line. Flowers made 5 yards around left end. McAlister made first down around right end.
Flowers added 2 yards on an end run. Burns hit left tackle for first down. Forward pass, Spann to King,
incomplete. Wofford penalized 15 yards for holding. Burns made 2 yards through center. Spann cleared right end for 5 yards.
Forward pass, Spann to Richardson, incomplete. Pass, Spann to King, gave Davidson her fourth touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 34;
Wofford, 0.

Grey kicked off 58 yards to Keaton, who returned 25 yards. First half over. Davidson, 34; Wofford, 0.

THIRD QUARTER.
Wofford brought out Grey's kick-off over the goal line to her 20-yard line. Carmichael gained 2 yards, but Wofford called
back and penalized 15 yards for holding. Carmichael gained 7 yards around right end. Boyle added 2 more over left
guard. Carmichael failed to gain over left guard. Ellerbe punted 40 yards to G. Crouch, who was downed immediately.

DAVIDSON HOLDS (Continued from page 1)
Forward pass, Spann to King, made 16 yards. Burns hit left tackle for 1 yard. Forward pass, Spann to King,
gives Davidson first touchdown. Grey kicked goal. Grey kicked off over goal line. Wofford’s ball on own 20-yard line. Carmichael
gained 2 yards, but Wofford called back and penalized 15 yards for holding. Carmichael gained 7 yards around right end.
Boyle added 2 more over left guard. Carmichael failed to gain over left guard. Ellerbe punted 40 yards to G.
Crouch, who was downed immediately.

The South’s Largest Exclusive
BOOKS.-STATIONARY-NOVELTIES
224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Complete Line of College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at
GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY

The Hoover & Smith Co.
DRY CLEANING
Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
J. A. THAMES, Agent

If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It
Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
PRINTERSGrade Laundering Official Fraternity

Michael made 2 yards over right guard. Crouch hit right guard for 1 and repeated for 6 yards. Vaughn went
3 yards. J. McAlister tore off 35 yards through left guard for 1 yard. Carmichael around right end. L. McAlister
failed through right guard. D. C.'s ball on Wofford’s 29-yard line. Burns smashed through left guard for 8 yards. Flowers
skirted right end for 12. Burns went over right tackle for 2 yards. Burnett threw Crouch for a 2-yard loss.
Davidson's ball on Wofford’s 9-yard line. Pass, Spann to King, made touchdown. Grey kicked goal. L. McAllister substituted for G.
Crouch. Grey kicked 50 yards to Vaughn, who returned 20. Vaughn and Carmichael hammered left guard for two gains of
3 yards. G. Crouch carried the ball over the line for a touchdown. Grey punted out to Crouch. Wofford offside,
no kick. Grey punted out to J. McAlister.

Grey kicked goal. Davidson, 41; Wofford, 0. Keaton received Grey's kick-off to goal line and returned 22 yards. Keaton made
2 yards over left guard. McMaster broke through and threw Carmichael for a loss of 4 yards. Boyle gained 1
yard over tackle. J. McAlister returned Ellerbe's 30-yard punt 5 yards. Davidson’s ball on own 45-yard line. Massey gained 10
yards, but Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. Grey failed to gain. L. McAlister cleared left end and had a
clear field except for Ellerbe, who threw him after he had torn off 18 yards. Carmichael intercepted pass, but was
downed in his tracks. Carmichael failed to gain through center. Time out for Davidson. Keaton gained 2 yards over left
guard. Ellerbe made a first down around right end. Carmichael made 15 yards on a fake play over right tackle.
Boyle made 2 yards through center. Keaton failed through left tackle. D.C. penalized 5 yards, offside. Time out for Davidson.
Wofford’s ball on Davidson's 10-yard line. Carmichael hit right guard for 3 yards. Time up. Quarter over. Davidson, 41; Wofford,
0.

SECOND QUARTER.

Brady for McMaster. Burns smashed through center for an 8-yard gain. McAlister hit center for first down. Burns made another
yard through center. Flowers ran around left end for a touchdown. Flowers kicked out to Burns. Grey kicked goal. Davidson,
27; Wofford, 0. Grey kicked off over goal line. Wofford penalized 15 yards for holding. Grey failed to gain. L.
McAlister cleared left end and had a clear field except for Ellerbe, who threw him after he had torn off
18 yards. Carmichael intercepted pass, but was downed in his tracks. Carmichael failed to gain through center. Time out for
Davidson. Keaton gained 2 yards over left guard. Ellerbe made a first down around right end. Carmichael made 15 yards
on a fake play over right tackle. Boyle made 2 yards through center. Keaton failed through left tackle. D.C. penalized
5 yards, offside. Time out for Davidson. Wofford’s ball on Davidson's 10-yard line. Carmichael hit right guard for 3 yards.
Time up. Quarter over. Davidson, 41; Wofford, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER.

Carmichael failed twice through center. Pass, Ellerbe to Boyle, failed. Davidson brought the ball out to her 20-yard line. Spann
failed over right tackle. Forward pass, Spann to King, made 24 yards. Pass, Spann to McAlister, gained another 15 yards.
Pass repeated to King for 10 more yards. Flowers added 5 yards around left end. Burnett threw J. McAlister for
a loss. (Continued on page 6)
