Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 17, 1917

You need The Davidsonian and The Davidsonian needs you. There is not a more appreciative Alumni to be found than
those who revere their Alma Mater of Davidson. You have given us a Gym which is hard to equal and
one which is possessed by few colleges of this size. This shows your appreciation. You appreciate what we are doing
here to the extent that such a lovely gift should be given to the college you should want to know
what about Davidson today. The Davidsonian is getting out an especial appeal to you this week for your subscription. These
make the paper possible. The President of the Alumni Association feels that every member of the Alumni should be a
subscriber to this publication. The college recognizes that it is going into untrodden paths and bringing men to Davidson. The
college is growing—many things of interest are told through these columns. The Davidsonian also is growing—will you who are not
subscribing send in your subscription now? Here's for a bigger and better Davidson.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas
R. E. McClure
J. R. Woods
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. B. Woods

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
Assistant Managers:
D. Ha

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

In addition to the reporters’ staff, the following men reported for this issue: W. H. Harrell, W. F. Hall, W.
P. Cumming, C. L. Hall, W. M. McLeod, J. R. Boulware, Jr., M. F. Edwards, and C. K. Brown.

Subscription: $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

Several of the boarding houses on Monday made arrangements for a meatless day or a meatless meal each day. This
is the result of Dr. Martin’s appeal to the patriotism of the student body. If you want to see this
spirit as fine as it can be found at any place—come to Davidson. This is a fine spirit and shows
the willingness to make a little sacrifice. This scheme is endorsed and heartily commended to private families as well as
boarding houses.

This week’s columns contain a very interesting letter from Dr. Lingle, who is now in France. We have other letters
about the military life which will appear in following numbers.

Subscribe now.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial:
“A thing of beauty is a joy forever.” —Clough. Does our speech have a beautiful flow?

If ALL THE ALUMNI FELT THIS WAY:
In The Davidsonian P.O. box was found the other day a communication addressed to “The Commanding Officer of The Davidsonian,”
which read somewhat as follows: “Inclosed you will find a check, which, by the way, is not bogus. In return
for this check, you will please send me The Davidsonian for a period of nine...”

---months, beginning immediately. It is like grape-nuts to me—I can't live without it—There's a reason.”

“With best wishes for a most profitable and prosperous year to you all, I am

“Very truly yours,
(Signed) S.C. Harris.”

There would be no need of a circulation manager to dig up subscriptions—but ‘twould take half a dozen to record
the subscriptions, an equal number of business managers to sign the checks, and a wheelbarrow in which to carry the
“kale” to the bank. Have you done your part to bring about such a condition?
—O. J. T., JR.

“A man who is not faithful to his college duties this year is a slacker.”—Dr. Poteat, President Furman University.

“Lost is that man to tribe, to social usage, and homeless whoso, his people among, promoteth palsying discord.”
—Nestor, in The Iliad.

“Activity is man’s energy supply.”—Dr. Kepner.

“Men get enjoyment out of activity rather than passivity.”—Dr. Sentelle.

“Man's evolution is psychic, rather than a spatial or a material one; the moral, rather than the physical aspect.”
—Dr. Kepner.

It is good to look things and facts in the face, but there is a proper time, place and audience.

“PETE” SAUNDERS ARRIVED UNEXPECTEDLY LAST FRIDAY

The climate influences our architecture—for that matter, all architecture. Atmospheric conditions have considerably changed since Chambers Building was erected in
the fifties. The student body is greatly pleased to see A. P. Saunders, ‘18, again on the campus. The arrival
of “Pete” this week was somewhat earlier than had been expected, according to the information which had been previously received
in regard to his condition. “Pete” and his mother, Mrs. A. P. Saunders, are now with his aunt, Mrs. A.
B. Robeson. He will soon assume his college duties.

R. B. Peters, ‘18, came down in the same car with Pete.

“Boys you beat them if they did get the highest score!”—Atlanta street sentiment.

Going and coming Grey outpunted Tech. Tech vs. University of Pennsylvania—41 to 0. Tech vs. Davidson—32 to 0. We could
take it from Penn University.

At a meeting of the Athletic Association last week H. M. Grey was elected manager of the Track Team for
next spring. Look out V. P. I.! We are military too.

Charlotte, N. C.
Hats, Furnishings and Men’s Clothing, Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the French,
Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. At our Sanitary Fountain. We want to
serve you.

Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits. Special attention given to “FEEDS.”

L. A. Elliott

Something good to eat ALL the time.
