New Gym Building as Proposed. Contract to Be Let For New Gym This Week. Building Will Probably be Completed by Next Fall.

The contract for this long-needed and eagerly looked-for addition to our material equipment will be let before the middle of this week, and work will go forward as rapidly as possible. It is confidently expected that it will be ready for service, under the leadership of our new Gymnasium Director, Mr. Mackey, when college opens in the fall.

The building is to be of brick. The basement being above ground, it will be practically three stories high. Above the basement, where team rooms, shower rooms, and lockers will be found, is the main floor of the gymnasium room, 58 feet 2 inches by 90 feet 10 inches, with a balcony on three sides. The floor of this room is hard maple and the trusses overhead are of steel; the pitch is two stories.

In front of the gymnasium proper are two tiers of rooms. On the first floor to the left of the wide lobby is the auxiliary gymnasium, 26 feet by 30 feet 2 inches; on the right is the director's office and two rooms for physical examination. In the tier above are found living quarters for the director and a club room. The building is 91 by 95 feet 6 inches, outside dimensions, with a high pillared porch in front. The whole is colonial in character.

The swimming pool is designed to communicate with the basement of this building and to be in a separate enclosure on the south side. Funds for this, owing to the unexpected great advance in the cost of building, are not now on hand, but it is hoped to add it soon. Twenty-five thousand dollars is available, and every dollar will be expended to complete the work just as far as possible.

Miss Mary Jackson, of Gastonia, has been visiting her brother, Mr. F. L. Jackson.

News and Happenings of The Week in Town

Prof. Fulton Attends Important Gathering. Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Miss Askew, Dean of Queens College, has been the guest of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle for the weekend.

The Book Lovers’ Club will be entertained next Thursday afternoon at the home of Mrs. Fulton, at which time Professor Currie will deliver a lecture.

Mrs. Worth and her daughter, Miss Catherine Worth, will leave for Washington the last of this week.

Messrs. Douglas Brown, Lewis Johnson, and Lamont Fields are at home, after some months of service on the Mexican border. They report an interesting time, but are uncertain as to when they will be called to the colors again.

Miss Onie Steele spent the weekend at her home in Rock Hill, S. C.

Sarah Lingle is quite sick with typhoid fever at the home of her parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Rev. W. T. Walker, of Barium Springs, was in Davidson, Monday, attending the funeral of Mrs. Hobbs.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY.

From among the new books recently added to the Library, the following have been chosen as being especially interesting: “Classics of the Bar,” by Alvin V. Sellers, in four volumes; “Efficient Living,” by Purinton; “Society and Prison,” by Thos. Osborne; “The Tide of Immigration,” by F. L. Warne; “Poverty and Riches,” by Scott Nearing; “Chemistry in the Service of Man,” by Alexander Findley, and “Poland: Case for Independence.”

Association

Prof. M. G. Fulton returned last Thursday from Macon, Ga., where he attended the second Conference for Education and Industry. Plans were made for the permanent organization of this body and in the future, the Southern English teachers will meet annually. At this meeting, Professor Fulton read the main paper, the subject being “Southern Literature.”a subject in which Professor Fulton has been very much interested and he has been very active in stirring up the South to a realization of the value of her own literature. Recently he published a book, “Southern Life in Southern Literature,” which has received much favorable comment. In his paper before the conference, Professor Fulton urged that colleges make entrance requirements in English include a study of our own literature. He also called attention to the fact that the South has a most fertile field of literature and a development which makes the literature distinctive. Those who teach our literature should realize this and understand the spirit of the South for an intelligent interpretation of it. Professor Fulton was elected President of the organization for the ensuing year. The other officers elected were the Vice-Presidents, C. W. Steed, of Mercer University, Georgia; Dewitt Croissant, George Washington University, District of Columbia; O. B. Staples, Louisiana State University; J. M. Grainger, of Virginia State Normal College.

On last Saturday, March 24th, the annual reunion of District VII of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity was held on the Hill, the local Phi Alpha Chapter being in charge. Besides the District Chief, Mr. George H. Bruce, of Philadelphia, representatives from the University of Virginia and the University of North Carolina were also present.

Pres. Wilson Expresses Thanks for Message
Is Gratified for Support of Davidson College.

The following letter has been received by Dr. Martin from President Wilson in response to the resolutions of confidence recently sent him by the Faculty and student body of the college:

The White House,
Washington, D. C.,
March 20, 1917.

My Dear President Martin:

May I not thank you for your kind letters of the 9th of March and tell you how much pleasure it has afforded me to know that I have the sympathy and support of the men of old Davidson—faculty and student body? I am heartened and cheered by such reassuring messages, and I hope that you will express my deepest appreciation to everyone concerned.

Cordially and sincerely yours,
Woodrow Wilson.

President William J. Martin,
President Davidson College,
Davidson, N.C.

HONOR ROLL COMPLETED FOR FALL TERM WORK

Due to the illness of Professor Wood it was impossible to complete the grades of those making the Honor Roll until very recently. To have one’s name on this roll is a much coveted honor and the desire of every earnest student. The Juniors and Seniors seem to have the big end of the bargain, the former having four members upon it and the latter having five.

According to the usual custom, the names of those receiving honorable mention or making a grade from 95 to 95 are also given.

Seniors—S. T. Henderson, 98.67 (highest grade in college); H. A. Campbell, 97.20; F. M. Mitchell, 97.17; E. H. Hamilton, 96.12; A. R. Craig, 95.43.

Juniors—J. R. Woods, 98.33; J. W. Clark, 97; S. T. McCloy, 96.33; L. M. Thomas, 95.

Sophomores—E. B. Wright, 96.14.

Freshmen—D. M. Chalmers, 96.69.

Honorable mention (above 94) in order—Seniors: D. I. McKeithen, O. J. Thies, Jr. Juniors: H. T. Lilly, W. C. Cumming. Sophomores: C. H. Foreman, S. H. Askew, E. G. Lilly, Geo. Robson. Freshmen: Wm. Love, T. B. Mitchell, A. L. Foscue.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB ON FIRST SPRING TRIP

The Orchestra and Glee Club left last Monday on the first trip of the season. This trip is being made in Western North Carolina. Their schedule is as follows: At Lenoir on Monday evening, at Asheville High School on Tuesday afternoon, at Asheville Normal on Tuesday evening, and at Marion on Wednesday evening. They will return Thursday. Those making the trip are Childs, Clark, Foreman, Fairley, Coachman, Huneycutt, Freeman, Fowle, Shields, Cashion, Neal, King, Hollister, and Shaw. A second trip is being planned through South Carolina, which will be made in the first part of May.