The DAVIDSONIAN, October 31, 1917

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, November 2: Resolved, That the States of the American Union should adopt the initiative, referendum, and recall.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: Neel and Calhoun. Negative: Siske and Hunter. Extemporaneous: McClure and Alexander. Orations: Davis and F. P. Hall.

Eumenean—Affirmative: Liston, Good, and Thomas. Negative: Cunningham, J. R. Woods, and L. H. Smith. Declamations: Craig and McCutcheon.

The schedule for the Junior Philanthropic Society has not been posted in time for publication. Its schedule committee had best
get busy.

The schedule for the Freshman Eumenean Society for November 4: Affirmative: Miller and Collins. Negative: Boulware and Wilson. Declamations: C.
M. McCaskill, Newsome, Ormand, and Scott.

CAMPUSISMS.

D. R. Freeman, '20, made a business trip to Concord last week.

M. E. Edwards, '20, spent Sunday at his home near Charlotte.

Professor Overcash (in Biology class)—"Mr. Elliott, what is a mollusk?"
Mr. Elliott—"A young horse."

A. C. Fairley, '18, is visiting in Elmo, N.C.

Fricker (to an upper-classman at football game)—"Is this the first ending?"
Upper-classman—"No, it’s the first half."

Fresh Green was asked what the word enthusiasm meant. His answer: "Something dangerous to fool with."

J. M. Dunlap, '21; J. R. and J. B. Woods, '18, spent Sunday in Charlotte.

"Dutch" Hengeveld went to Charlotte Thursday to see the elephants.

Fresh Deaver found Saturday night to his dismay that a Freshman's door must be locked as well as his windows.

Dr. Sentelle (in Psychology class)—"Mr. Dunlap, what is your first concept of the word ‘date’?"
Dunlap—"An engagement."

Mr. S.—"I understand that you are giving your son a liberal education."
Mr. J.—"Yes, and he is giving me one in liberality."

W. W. Carter, '21, sustained a fall at the station last Thursday night which might have proved serious, as he
was unconscious until the next day. Fortunately, however, he was up and around on Friday, showing no bad effects of
his fall.

Lieut. J. B. Mallard, ex-'18, was on the Hill Sunday.

SUPPLIES FORWARDED BY LOCAL RED CROSS

The following is a list of articles that the ladies of the local Red Cross have made and shipped to
Charlotte: Handkerchiefs (substitutes), 18 dozen; wash cloths, 9 dozen and 9; hospital bed shirts, 3 dozen and 3; operating towels,
10 dozen and 7; sweaters, 3; mufflers, 5; wristlets, 3 pairs; socks, 4 pairs.

The ladies of the Civic League will give a bazaar this month. Watch for the announcement of the date.

Our Contemporaries

The Agonistic—The students of Agnes Scott College are looking forward with much pleasure to hearing Billy Sunday in Atlanta in
the near future. The girls are co-operating with the people of Atlanta to make the series of services the best
that has ever been held.

SCRUBS DEFEATED BY CAROLINA FRESH

In a game Saturday at Chapel Hill, the Davidson Scrubs were defeated by the Carolina Freshman team six to two.
The game was snappy and clean. Carolina scored in the first half when Scales caught a punt and ran with
the ball forty yards for a touchdown. Davidson’s score came when Scales, of Carolina, was tackled behind his goal line.

Line-up:

Old Gold and Black—The literary societies at Wake Forest have caught the patriotic fever in buying Liberty Bonds. One society
authorized the treasurer of its surplus funds to invest $1,000 in Liberty Loan Bonds. All hail to such a society.

POSITION, DAVIDSON.

Simms ................. Curry
Right End

Abernathy .......... Finley
Right Tackle

Stevens ............... Davenport
Right Guard

Shaw .................. Wileyis every indication that they will both be entirely successful.

Right Guard: Wright
Left Tackle: Mountcastle
Left End: Cochran
Quarterback: Robson, C. B.
Right Halfback: Sherred
Left Halfback: Vance
Fullback: Massey

Orange and Blue—Auburn students greatly enjoyed a series of six lectures given by Dr. Weatherford, the International Secretary of the
College Branch of the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Weatherford spoke on the work and need of the Army Y.M.C.A.
there and abroad.

Where Will a Little Go a Long Way?
$1.25 Invested in a subscription to The Davidsonian
If you don't believe it, try it. The proof of the pudding is the eating thereof. Let us serve you
a tempting portion every week throughout the college year. But how are we to know that you want us to
continue sending the Davidsonian unless you send us $1.25 now?

The Bible is the finest combination of common sense and eloquence, of logic and literature to be found anywhere.—Governor Bickett.

We are fighting the soul of war, we are fighting to send militarism to the scrap heap.—Governor Bickett.

The young man in college who fails to take advantage of every opportunity for larger service is a slacker.—Governor Bickett.

I want every boy in Davidson College to give one dollar to buy a Liberty Bond and give it to
endow your old Alma Mater.—Governor Bickett.

A hundred dollars have already been raised and two thousand is set as a standard toward which to work.

The Mississippian—Military drill at the University of Mississippi is progressing nicely. The squad drill has been discontinued and company drill
has been started. After drill one afternoon, the captains and other officers for each company were appointed. Each man knows
that he has the finest company and that his company will win the prize offered to the best-drilled company.

The Gamecocks—The first dance of the season given by the German Club was enjoyed recently by a large number of
couples at the Gym of the University of South Carolina. The music was fine and “until the last number at
1 o'clock” joy reigned supreme.

The Reveille—The cafeteria system of serving meals was instituted at the dining hall of the Louisiana State University at the
beginning of the present session. It has proved a great success, giving the cadets a pleasing, wholesome variety of food
at less cost than was possible under the former system.

The Tiger—Clemson College is one of the eligible colleges named in the War Department order in connection with the Third
Officers’ Training Camp to begin January 5. Graduates and undergraduates are encouraged to participate.

THE COMMISSARY
First Class Vaudeville
YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

In the Spalding line, you have equipment that is officially recognized, high grade as to workmanship, and durable in quality.
The SPALDING No. BASKETBALL is guaranteed perfect in every detail. Catalogue on request.

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes?
Complete line of High-Grade Men’s Footgear, at the lowest prices to be found on the Hill.
Gilmer Moore Co.
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.
Rutledge & Norton
Next door to Post Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING
Phone 69-J

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Williamson & McDonald, Agents

Power House
BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches, and Alarm Clocks
W. M. Torrence: The Jeweler

The Wallace-Brough Co. have their TRIMMED VELOUR HATS greatly reduced. Also, an attractive line of SHIRTWAISTS AND NECKWEAR.
