Vol. V. Annual Bible Study Rally Held Thursday Dr. D. Clay Lilly Makes Address. Classes Are Formed.

The annual Y. M. C. A. Bible Study rally meeting was conducted on Thursday night, September 27, by Dr. D.
Clay Lilly, of Winston-Salem. A large audience was out to hear him. Dr. Lilly spoke on the value of Bible
study, and chose his text from the Parable of the Sower, Matt. 13:23: “But he that received seed into the
good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it.” Dr. Lilly drew a contrast between this and the
eighteenth verse, where “One heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not.” The one heard and understood and
bore fruit exceedingly, whereas the other understood not and wastefulness resulted. The difference between the two lay in the key
word “understand.” So we are not only to read but to understand the Gospel, the Word of Life.

There are two methods of Bible reading. First, we may read it devotionally, and Dr. Lilly emphasized the great need
of this in every Christian's life. Second, it can be read from the standpoint of the student. As an example,
Dr. Lilly read the passage from Genesis describing Eve’s temptation. The reader who is no analyzer is apt to be
swept away by mere wonder at the incident. The analyzing reader, however, will observe on close study that Satan leads
the sinner to err by three steps: First, ridicules the restriction that binds him; second, denies the penalty; third, promises
rewards. Likewise, the close student will see in the nineteenth Psalm the glory of God’s firmament, the comprehensiveness of His
law, and lastly, feel his own frailty in comparison with such. Such a study, said Dr. Lilly, enables us to
recognize more fully the precious truths of the Scriptures whenever we turn to them. Hence, this study is to be
a supplement to our devotional reading. Such a study is the purpose of the Bible study classes this fall.

At the close of the meeting, the subjects and respective leaders for the various Bible Study classes were announced, and
everyone was asked to sign for one of these classes. About one hundred have signed. The courses and respective teachers
are:

Christianizing Community Life: R. H. Stone, J. W. Maddrey.
The Meaning of Prayer: W. C. Cumming, H. T. Lilly.
Mormonism: The Islam of America: G. C. Bellingrath, J. A. Thames.
The Words and Teachings of the Earlier Prophets: Dr. Arbuckle, J. R. Woods.
The American Indian on the New Trail: J. I. Fowle (class limited to Freshmen), R. W. Cousar.
The Social Principles of Jesus: H. M. Grey, J. B. Daffin.
The Bible as a Source of Modern Law: Prof. A. Currie.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 3, 1917.

Tennis Tournament Began on Monday

Red and Black Plays A. & E. in Raleigh First Game of State Championship Next Saturday.

Eight Teams in Doubles, Twenty-Seven Enter Singles.

Davidson meets her first contender for the state championship next Saturday when she plays A. & E. at Raleigh. It
is hard to form an exact estimate of the strength of the two teams early in the season. Each has
played only one game. Davidson held the Navy 27 to 0. A. & E. defeated Guilford 19 to 0. From
this comparative score, it would appear that Davidson has the edge on her contender. Coach Fetzer’s warriors are ready for
the fray, and after another week of practice, the Red and Black machine should be in shape to repeat the
feat of last year.

Forecasts from the A. & E. predict a good team for this year, the average weight being 165. Davidson, though
outweighed by her opponent, will have the edge in experience. A. & E. has five old men back, including Captain
Homewood. The rest of the team is made up in large part of new material. Davidson has four “D” men,
and six “D.C.” men. With these men as a nucleus, “Coach” is building up a strong team. Spann, Flowers, Burns,
and Kennedy in the backfield; King and Richardson at end, and Elliott, Robson, Crouch, Grey, and Shaw in the line,
are making the Red and Black machine take on its old-time form. There are a number of strong men to
fall back on as substitutes, McAlister showing up well in the backfield.

One interesting fact about the contest is that Jack Black's brother will be found playing.

At a meeting of the Tennis Club, W. Hall, ‘20, was elected manager for this year. He has charge of
arranging the annual tennis tournament. The schedule for the tournament has been made out and is printed below. The first
sets were played Monday afternoon, October 1. The finals will probably be played sometime next week.

Twenty-seven men have entered the singles and eight teams have entered the doubles. The games are as follows:

Doubles: J. B. Woods and J. R. Woods vs. Spence and W. F. Hall, Jr.; Woods and Kennedy vs. Cunningham
and Hawkins.

Singles: R. C. Garth vs. E. L. Woods; Manning vs. Gaither; J. R. Woods vs. C. W. Worth; Kornegay vs.
Shields; Spence vs. Miller; Hamilton vs. Flinn; Kennedy vs. A. L. Wilson; Hollister vs. E. G. Lilly; Barnett vs. J.
B. Woods; Cunningham vs. Forbes; Toy vs. Daffin; Mahad vs. Flawing; H. T. Lilly vs. Witmer.Left end for the A.
& E. [Wl oe) Hall fr. vs. W. M. L. Jones. This is his first year of collegiate football. Davidson
will probably use the same line-up as against the Navy. A. & E. will probably use the following line-up: Left
end, Black; left tackle, Homewood; left guard, Wagoner; center, Garrett; right guard, Floyd; right tackle, Wagner; right end, Brown; quarter,
McQuinn; left half, Gurley; right half, McMurray; full, Murray. The players have been practicing regularly since college opened and some
interesting matches will be played. The courts have been scraped off and leveled and are in excellent condition. The lovers
of tennis will be given a treat. The drawing for the tournaments are as follows: Double Entries — Kornegay and
Gaither vs. C. R. Robeson and C. W. Worth; Daftin and Mahuad vs. Jones and Mill.

SUNDAY SCHOOL TO BE HELD IN THE MORNING

At a meeting of the session last Sunday morning it was decided that the hour of Sunday School be changed
to 10 o’clock in the morning. This plan is to be tried out for six weeks. There are two reasons
for this: first, it is hoped that there will be a better Bible class among the men; secondly, the young
people of the church intend organizing a Christian Endeavor Society. Sunday School will start next Sunday, October 7, at 10
o'clock.

MILLINERY OPENING HELD LAST FRIDAY

The Wallace Brough millinery opening was held Friday night, September 28. This proved to be one of the most attractive
openings ever held at Davidson, not only because of the pretty display of hats, but also because of the artistic
manner in which the store was decorated. The color scheme was carried out in yellow and white, which made everything
very attractive.

NOTICE

The management of "The Davidsonian" regret that the last two issues have been delayed. This delay is due to the
unsettled conditions caused by the war. The camp at Charlotte overcrowds the present express facilities and delays the return of
the paper from Charlotte. We are attempting to solve the trouble and get the paper to the subscribers on the
usual date.

This is how Davidson’s opponents of the 1917 season came out last Saturday: V. M. I. 15; Hampden-Sydney, 7. A.
& E. 19; Guilford, 0. Georgia Tech. 27; Furman, 0. Georgia Tech. 34; Wake Forest, 0. (Double header). Clemson, 13;
Presbyterian College, 0.

The cheerful giver is always the one who gives much. — Ex.

No. 4 Navy Defeats Davidson In Opening Game

Flowers Makes 70-Yard Run for Davidson’s Touchdown.

In the opening game of the season, in which both teams showed lack of condition, Davidson was defeated by the
Navy eleven at Annapolis on Saturday by the score of 27 to 0. The game began promptly at 2:30. Navy
receiving the kickoff. They were held for downs, and punted. Davidson was also unable to gain, and an exchange of
punts followed, in which Grey clearly had the better of his opponent. In this quarter Davidson was mainly on the
defensive and near the end of the period the Navy registered three touchdowns. Davidson was forced to make several substitutions
on account of injuries. The second quarter was much faster, neither side scoring. The last half was featured by a
70-yard run around left end by Flowers, which resulted in Davidson’s only touchdown. This run, with the defensive work of
Burns and the punting of Grey, were the features of the game from the Davidson standpoint. Twenty-two men were taken
on the trip, all of whom were at some time in the game. The game was the source of much
valuable experience to the team. This will be of great help to the men during the coming season. The Washington
Herald contained the following account with the line-up:

“The Carolinians fought a dogged game all the way, but it easily became apparent that the Navy offensive was much
more powerful and the Middies registered three touchdowns in the first period of play. The Middies are being coached this
year by Gilmour Dobie, who made such a phenomenal success as the mentor of the University of Washington for a
number of years. The work of his charges in their initial game showed all earmarks that a fast and powerful
team will be the result of his efforts. The line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON POSITION NAVY
King L.E. Smith
Shaw L.T. Schilhaney
Grey L.G. Dulin
Crouch, Wm. C. Arthur
Robson R.G. Caldwell
Mite R.T. Scoffe
Richardson R.E. Spann
McAlister Q.B. Ingram
Crouch, Geo. L.H. Roberts
Burns R.H. Butts
Martin F.B. Morton

Referee: Mr. Pennage, of Dartmouth; Umpire: Mr. Tyler, of Princeton; Head Linesman: Mr. Williams, of University of Pennsylvania. Time of
periods: 12 minutes.

At a meeting of "The Davidsonian" Staff last week, W. M. Currie, '19, and H. C. Hamilton, '20, were elected
to the Reporters’ Staff to fill the vacancies caused by the failure of W. P. Johnson, Jr. and V. E.
Gus to return this fall.

The greatest painter of all, the Autumn, is about to spread a feast of color over all the landscape. —
Scientific American

THE UNIVERSAL OBJECT OF ENVY: A GRACEFUL SPEAKER
