The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly.........Managing Editor
E. A. Woods......Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames.........Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr......Business Manager
O. C. Williamson......Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone......Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters are D. L. Mahood, W. C. Knight, J. M. Gaston, Jr., J. M. Walton, V. D. Johnson, L.
M. Currie, W. H. Harrell, J. C. McCaskill.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

We know of no one of the official college personnel who wanted to resign because a Sophomore flag was floating
at half mast.

"It's nice to have money and the things money will buy, but I find it far more important to make
sure I haven't lost the things money can't buy."—Julius Rosenwald.

Last week we were incorrectly informed that the Freshman class did not buy a Liberty Bond. We are glad to
make the correction and state that they have bought one. Also, the post-graduate students purchased one. What a spirit! Every
class on the Hill aiding their government.

IN THE GLOAMING.

Realizing that there is a diversity of tastes among the student body we have added another feature this week which
we hope will prove interesting. Some students are interested largely in athletics. Some are chiefly concerned with the musical feature.
Others have definite literary tastes. This week goes back into the past and brings to light some facts about college
journalism. This shows the point from which The Davidsonian has evolved. A comparative analysis is interesting to those to whom
this phase of activity appeals.

Announcement is made in this number of Dr. Fulton’s new book, soon to appear among the Fall publications. This volume
of Irvin Russell's poems has features which have not appeared in other editions of the work of the Mississippi poet.
This volume will be welcomed by the student body and will be eagerly read by those who have been introduced
to the charm of Nebuchadnezzar and other poems by this master of the negro dialect.

That Charlotte High is a plucky set.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 7, 1917

When are those uniforms coming? Some have predicted that they would arrive in time for a new Spring suit.

The New York Times has an epitome of the books relating to the war which have been written since 1914.
The number totals 1,262—covering all phases. The theme about which clings the greatest number is “Germany.” Every magazine announces new
books about the struggle. What will the ultimate number be?

GRATITUDE TO ITALY.

Not only are we indebted to France and Lafayette, but also we are indebted to Italy. Now that she is
being pushed back by the Teutons, she is receiving aid. She has never aided us in our fights, it is
true, but English literature is indebted to no other nation as it is to Italy. Not only are we indebted
for the classics which were engendered in Italy, but also for the effect that the balm and peace of the
atmosphere which has so influenced Byron, Shelley and others who have gone there mad and found peace. Many masterpieces have
been written by almost formerly insane men who have been redeemed by the formative influence of that country. May the
diabolical Teutons never ruin the literary shrines and “grandeur that was Rome.”

COLLEGE HISTORIAN,

Nothing is the historian of the college as is this publication. Then it is our duty to record the change
of customs and idioms which come in and out from time to time as well as to give the current
events.

One delightful custom which we observe is the more intense seriousness. Some students are taking six tickets where only four
or five are needed. This has been commented upon by Dr. Sentelle, who observed this tendency during the matriculation of
the students. One thing which has delightfully made its exit is the excessive use of many slang terms. The term
“bull,” which first meant a tendency exemplified by DeQuincey—rigamaroling; and which later meant something akin to the Elizabethan conceit—putting your
speech in a highly decorated vehicle—is largely of the past. The term “horse” which was once on the tip of
every student's tongue (its meaning we never knew) is also going out. It is very seldom heard.

These items show that this year is being characterized by seriousness as has never been in a long time. College
men are realizing that college is indeed an efficiency training camp and that all are D. C. Reserves.

Senior Speaking is an institution of which the Seniors have had little practical experience. But they are seriously facing the
things now. The contact comes the week-end following Thanksgiving.

REV. DR. DOBYNS DOING HIS BIT

News comes that Dr. Dobyns, who lives long in the memory of every Senior and who has greatly endeared himself
to many of our alumni, has been chosen from among three thousand ministers to go to Camp Gordon, in Atlanta,
where he will have charge of the religious life of the camp. Fifty thousand men will give him a great
deal to do.

Davidson's last four opponents in the 1917 season are as follows, and also here is how they came out last
week:
Auburn, 68; Florida, 0.
Wake Forest, 0; V. P. I., 50.
Wofford, 16; Clemson,28. IN THE GLOAMING COLLEGE JOURNALISM AT DAVIDSON IN EMBRYONIC FORM

Papers Antedating to 1884 and 1895 Have Been Reviewed and Give Much Local Coloring of Past

Probably in the minds of most of us there is an idea that The Davidsonian is the first attempt at
college journalism at Davidson. This is an error. The Library contains college magazines going further back than the first paper
which is on record. The earliest college paper which we have on record is that of “The Davidson College Enterprise,”
Volume I, February, 1884. There is not a complete file of this and there is one number only.

“The Davidson College Enterprise” was edited by R. G. Sparrow. He lived in Davidson, and before he entered college he
edited this paper independently and it had no connection whatever with the student body as to its being representative of
it or being financially aided. Mr. Sparrow is thought by some to have one of the most brilliant minds of
any man who ever left Davidson. When he entered college the publication of this paper was suspended. It is said
that he would work geometric originals by the score at one time because they were interesting. He translated Latin and
Greek almost as fluently as we read English. This publication was a four-page, four-column, twelve-inch sheet. It is written in
good style. There are some recipes (fillers) and there is wit and humor to make it well balanced. It is
advertised as “one of the cheapest weeklies in the world”—being seventy-five cents per year. The idea of his is a
necessity of today that “every graduate of Davidson College should subscribe.”

Typical of his local column we reprint:
A gentleman who lives just across the river is happy over a recent addition to his family consisting of three
young persons.
The sunset Tuesday evening was one of exceptional beauty, continuing long after the sun had set.

As to the life of this paper we know that it existed until February, 1884. We can surmise that it
was continued at least throughout that year if no longer.

TIMELY TOPICS

The embryo of The Davidsonian came out June 7, 1895. This college journal is entitled “Timely Topics.” The Sophomore class
of 1897 were the editors, under the supervision of their English professor—Dr. W. S. Currell, now President of University of
South Carolina. We quote from the editorial of the professor:
Every member of the Sophomore class has an article in this paper, and no member of any other class has
written for its columns. While this may not be the way to secure an ideal paper, it is the only
way by which the class can be fairly represented. It is perhaps needless to add that articles upon topics of
the day, selected with reference to the tastes and special gifts of each member of the class, are likely to
be better conceived and better written than stilted compositions “upon the glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was
Rome.”

As editors often get in trouble about the product of their pen, we understand that this paper was not immune.
One headline article is “Awful Collision,” which is a graphic and vividly detailed account of a wreck (probably purely imaginary)
on the Southern Railroad, near Greensboro. In this fatality several people were killed. Because of its vividness and truthfulness to
the real, the company, we understand, threatened to sue the writer of this article. Transcribed at the foot of this
article with a pencil is “Hagan,” who is Mr. C. T. Hagan.

The articles appearing in this are largely didactic, better suited for the magazine. But it is the first attempt at
journalism at Davidson with a composite authorship and being representative of a body. It was printed at the Observer Printing
House, in Charlotte. “Timely Topics” is modeled upon the “Charlotte Observer.” If anything is amiss in it, readers are requested
to blame the model. In size it was about the size of its recognized prototype, though having only six pages.
There is reflected throughout a great deal of humor. There are lengthy discussions of state and national affairs: “Fusion of
the Two Democratic Factions in South Carolina,” and “The Outcome of the Fusion in North Carolina.” There are three poems
in this paper. It is a mirror of campus life of those days. There is a column headed “Davidson Doings,”
in which a timely excerpt appears:
Senior speaking was held April 12 and 13, in the old chapel. The stage was well decorated, with the class
colors of 1895 and with evergreens (by the Freshman class). The speaking was very good and only one or two
had to be prompted in their speeches. Messrs. Martin, Underwood and Wilson were chosen as representatives to speak at the
Commencement.

Another item of interest is about a member of our faculty:
The famous speaker [Dr.] A. Currie, delivered an oration at the Lyceum on Monday evening. At one time both orator
and audience were entirely overcome with emotion.

Another article reflecting the life and spirit of the campus is a program of the dramatization of the history of
the editing class.

LIFE DRAMA OF THE
Part I Fresh Year
Act I Scene: Old chapel, Sept. 28, 1893
Grand organization
Sophs, crow-bars and brick bats vs. Fresh and ballots.
Act II First examinations
The velocity of a falling body is independent of its mass.
Act III Scene: Gin-house—Midnight
Council of War
Pass word, “Self-defence.”

Part II Soph Year
Act I Fresh Reception
Refreshments: water, blacking and bumping.
Act II Jan. 25, 1895. Soph Banquet
Toastmaster Erin-go-braugh, Phonographic “My first Cigar.”
Act III “Timely Topics.”

In the language of this initiative professor, “Such a paper is a unique ex- (Continued on page 6)
