4 News and Happenings of The Week in Town Social and Personal Items The Town People

Miss Fannie McBryde has returned recently from her trip to Florida and is now at the home of Mrs. Worth.

Miss Virginia Atkins, of Boston, Va., was the guest of Miss Eloise Martin for the Junior Oratorical season.

Mr. Robert Smallwood, of New York, was a visitor on the Hill recently for a few days in the interest of the new gymnasium, of which he is the architect.

Mr. A. A. Vardell, of Dallas, Tex., spent the day with his sister, Mrs. W. J. Martin, last Saturday.

Mrs. Archibald Currie made a visit to Wilmington last week to see her aunt, Mrs. Fred Robinson, who had been sick for some time. Mrs. Robinson died last Saturday night, and the sympathy of all friends goes out to Mrs. Currie and to Dr. Martin in their bereavement.

Mr. E. M. Shepherd, of Winston-Salem, was on the Hill during Junior Speaking. Mr. Shepherd is working in the capacity of State Field Secretary of Christian Endeavor and spoke at the regular meeting on Sunday night.

As a result of the self-denial offering that has recently been taken in the interest of Foreign Missions by the ladies of the local church, $134 was contributed to the cause. This amount is over and above the regular work of the society.

The firm of Brown-Knox Mercantile Company began some days ago to renovate the grocery department of their store. The whole building used for this purpose is being remodeled for the better handling of the business of the coming months.

JUNIOR ORATORICAL EXERCISES PROVED AN ENJOYABLE OCCASION (Continued from page 1)

Daughtridge, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Miss Eleanor Berry, Washington, N. C.; Miss Ruth Ffird, Lexington, S. C.; Miss Sarah Pryor, Chester, S. C.; Miss Lucy Vance Darlington, Laurens, S. C.; Miss Margie Burns, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Johnsie Graves, Carthage, N. C.; Miss Sarah Wooten, Davidson, N. C.; Misses Agnes Cotten Timberlake, Elizabeth Riddick, Elizabeth Telfair, Raleigh, N. C.; Miss Ernestine Lott, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Misses Marion Willcox, Margaret Rucker, Evelyn Rucker, Bessie Chalmers, Charlotte, N. C.; Misses Bessie Ambler, Frances Hitchcock, Lee Cox, Mary Ingram and Mrs. Lester, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Louise McQueen, Clio, S. C.; Misses Berta Williford, Jessie Williford, Concord, N. C.; Miss Jennie Finley, Kentucky; Miss Lillian Brown, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Sarah Jones, Decatur, Ga.; Miss Mary Norman, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Ruth Barksdale, Greenwood, S. C.; Miss Elizabeth Law, Rock Hill, S. C.; Misses Anna Belle Dowd, Sarah Mellon, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Grace Bradley, Queens College; Miss Mary Price, Charlotte, N. C.

Quite a number of former students of Davidson were on the Hill during Junior Speaking, or for part of the occasion. Among these were: L. A. Fowle, ex-'18; J. D. Sprunt, ex-'18; B. McKee, ex-'18; C. A. Ansley, ex-'17; McAlister Carson, '13; W. M. Cosby, '15; Harvey Orr, ex-'18; J. M. Wearn, ex-'19; J. B. Belk, ex-'15; J. M. Rumple, ex-'14; W. P. Thomson, '16; S. R. Irving Henderson, ex-'16.

Other visitors here, not former students, were John D. Carroll, of Lexington, S. C.; E. M. Shepherd, of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Dr. Frederick, of Raleigh, N. C.; Mr. R. T. Stone, Stoneville, N. C.; Mr. C. B. Stone, Charlotte, N. C.

MAKING GOOD.

Some years ago, at a Northern university, it was discovered that a man who was considered a member of the Senior class had done no work there himself, but was receiving credit for the work which another man was doing by defraying the other man’s expenses. This emphasized the fact that the great difficulty today is not in obtaining an opportunity to get an education but in getting the education itself. The parents plus the college furnish the opportunity to the student to receive an education.No one but the student can use the opportunity, and the opportunity is worthless unless it is used. Are you making good use of your opportunity? The facts in the case show that 75 per cent of all mid-term grades were unsatisfactory, and it is pathetic to see students allowing their opportunities in life to do something to glide from their grasp. Here is a man who says that he is going to be a doctor. When his report comes in, he is down on this subject and down on that. It is an easy matter to see that he will never be a doctor although he may be a M. D. — Maule Driver. Here is another man who is planning to be a lawyer, but the omens indicate that he will work at a ground-saw-mill. Here is a prospective teacher, but the oracle is saying that he will never prepare his students for complete living, but they are going to take each other’s opinions before they will take his. Here is a man who expects to preach, but it would not take a prophet to predict that the sheep will look up and not be fed. These are not typical types of the whole student body, but the minority who prefer to drift just anywhere rather than row into the harbor of success. These are the men who are not making good. There is some excuse to be offered for these men, because, as stated before, it is not an easy thing to make good. Grinding out the same schedule each day, and taking in dry subject matter are frequently unattractive; but the difference in making good and not making good is so great that every sun which comes round ought to find you bucking the line no less easily than right well. — Ex.

A well-known judge went into a butcher shop one morning. After a brief talk, the butcher said: “Judge, will you give me a little legal advice? Suppose a dog should come into your shop and see a piece of meat, what would you do?”

“Sue the dog’s owner,” said the judge. “Was it a valuable piece of meat?”

“It was a fine roast, worth five dollars.”

“Well,” said the judge, “I should sue the owner, then, for five dollars.”

“Good!” said the butcher, with a grin; “it was your dog, judge.”

The judge smilingly paid the butcher and left.

Soon afterward, the butcher met the judge. “Judge,” he said, “I have here a bill from you for five dollars. What is that for?”

The judge smiled again. “That,” he said, “is for the legal advice I gave you about that dog.” — Ex.

HOTEL STONEWALL
HOTEL BUFFINE,
HOTEL YADKIN, - - Salisbury, N.C.
HOTEL LAFAYETTE, Fayetteville, N.C.
HOTEL MORGAN, - - - Danville, Va.
HOTEL LEELAND, - - Danville, Va.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Soda Fountain.
We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Society Brand Clothes
Knapp-Felt Hats
HANAN SHOES, FLORSHEIM SHOES, MANHATTAN SHIRTS: Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery
—Charlotte, N. C.—
—Greensboro, N. C.—

COLLEGE BASE BALL 1917
SPALDING Base Ball Record
Over 100 pages of pictures—records—reviews—college notes—dual series—names of managers, captains, and coaches—schedules—in fact, everything that a player or a fan wants to know, with all usual features concerning the professional side for which this remarkable book is noted.

J. P. SANDERS, President
United Motor Lines
Regular Lines Between
Including a picture of the DAVIDSON
Charlotte and Statesville
400 pages; 25 cents
We cater to special trips for
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
students
74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA.
L.B. Patterson, College Representative

The Commissary