2 The DAVIDSONIAN, December 5, 1917

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Base Hospital, Camp Jackson, S. C.
Editor Davidsonian:

Permit me to use your columns to congratulate the college and the members of the football team for their wonderful
season. All Davidson men in camp have followed the reports of the successive games with great enthusiasm and we wish
we could have been on hand to see the glorious finish. We are now anxious that each student engage earnestly
and seriously in the military training offered this year at Davidson. You will need it far more than you imagine.
Every single one of you who is able-bodied and without dependents will be in service some day and you may
as well begin your training right now and get accustomed to discipline. When I tell you that 80 per cent
of the medical officers here are over forty years old and almost all of them with dependent families, and that
we are out at daylight these mornings at drill, you will understand that the drill at college is mild. The
war will not be won by Liberty Bonds, Red Cross and Y. M. C. A. organizations, though they are necessary
adjuncts to an army, but it will be won with fighting men who are well trained. It is an inspiration
to see these fine young line officers here from Davidson and other similar institutions and nothing gives me such pleasure
as to have one hail me as they march by. I had three of them for patients today—no serious ailment—and
it was like old times to have them under my care. I heard from two more Davidson men “over there.”

R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

AGAIN—THAT SPEECH.
We wish that we could find the body of old Protagoras in a mummified form in one of the columns
in front of old Chambers. It would be nice to gouge beneath the flesh wrappings and extricate a piece of
his old Grecian flesh which is centuries old. Then to make this air tight in a nifty transparent, thin glass
case which could be worn as a watch charm. This done, we would like to give every student one and
everyone else (as far as they would last), who will not try to improve his speech. Then as you continually
looked at this we hope that you would get that distinct, clear note which this old rhetorician preached. The thing
ringing thru all the ages from Protagoras is the insistence for the correctness of speech. This might, as well as
being interestingly gruesome, serve as a gentle reminder to charm the thought when outward expression was being given to the
mind thru words. Wouldn’t this be a good pre-New Year resolution—insist that your lips give a pure expression of your
mind?

MANAGEMENT.
W. G. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
W. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. F. CASHION & SON
Does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat
Phone orders solicited
White’s Market Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

Assistant Managers
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

Reporters’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.
Additional Reporters are J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. S. Potts, W. J. Knox and B. W. Robefelt.

ATTENTION! JUNIORS.
Did you listen to all the Senior speeches? If you did, were you not impressed with the number of mere
chronicle-war speeches, or some other aspect which was of a wholly narrative character? No doubt some of you will be
thinking of your Junior speech during the holidays. In the name of Demosthenes please give some of your own ideas
and opinions and expressions—something that you have thought about, or something about which you can think consistently. It is for
your good that we hope that Dr. Currie will refuse them if they are narrative, rather than the product of
originality. SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR. This week they wanted to know when I was coming along and they also
wanted to know how military training was getting on at Davidson. All of them deplored that they had no opportunity
to have a course in military training while in college, for the training is so intensive now that even a
little previous knowledge is of great value. With all good wishes, I am cordially yours, John W. McConnell, Capt. M.
R. C.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

ETHICS OF THE SALUTE

Those of us who wear uniforms complete, or partially, including the hat, must adopt the forms of the salute. The
hat is never supposed to be lifted in the ordinary salute of respect. Instead, the hand salute is given, which
is just as respectful as is the civilian salute. Students have been saluting students. Two enlisted men do not salute.
You did not raise the hat to them. When you meet a professor you should simply give the hand salute
without making any pretension to lift the hat. He should consider this of just as great respect. This same salute
is used in greeting a lady. It may seem unnatural, but we should get the habit and soon it will
become a reflex. If the salute is to carry with it the military esteem we must stop saluting privates and
reserve it for ladies and superior officers—the professors.

Many of the students have contributed to the columns of this paper and many have served faithfully as reporters. We
are glad to have had the ladies on the Hill. We hope that they enjoyed their visit in proportion as
their presence added grace and charm to the campus. Dr. Thomas W. Lingle notifies us that only domestic postage rates
apply to all mail sent to him. He also states that his address has been changed to care Army and
Navy Y. M. C. A., Paris, France.

FELLOWS! Be Patriotic. Patronize the Home Industry.

OUR WISH

For every student, we hope that he will have the very best success during the examinations—that everything will conspire for
making hundreds on every ticket. We take this final privilege for wishing our many high school readers, friends, college men,
and alumni a Merry, Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. May every pleasure and success be with you.

Give your Shoe Work to the Davidson Shop. Work delivered within two days.

PIEDMONT THEATRE NORTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. SMITH, Agent Best Material, Best Work, Best Price Complete change of program
twice a week. Three Shows Daily First Class Vaudeville

Davidson, N. C., 1917-18.

Friday and Saturday: the best seller—Luden’s Cough Drops.

“SELF-CONTROL” IS TOPIC FOR JOINT MEETING

Gentlemen: If you are pleased, tell others. If not, tell me. M. E. Edwards, 22 Chambers Bldg. Davidson Manager for
Dick’s Laundry Co.

Victor Hugo once said, “Imitate Paris [formally], you will ruin yourself.”

“Self-control” was the topic discussed at the joint meeting of the Volunteer Band, the Ministerial Band, and the Christian Endeavor
Society last Sunday night. The leader, W. M. Currie, gave a good talk on self-control with several illustrations found in
history. As it was the regular time for the monthly consecration meeting, the secretary called the roll of the Christian
Endeavor Society and each member answered with a verse of Scripture. After making his talk the leader threw the meeting
open for discussion and an unusual number of good talks were given.

THE COMMISSARY

A. G. SPALDING & BROS., Inc. 74 N. Broad St. ATLANTA, GA

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.
