4 Regulations Adopted By the Audit Board

Plans for the annual deputation work Managers of Student Activities to Receive Salaries.

1. Monthly reports must be made by managers and treasurers of organizations included in the Blanket Fee plan. All reports
must be made on or before the fifth of each month showing the condition of the organizations for the past
month.

2. The audit board shall have power to call for an audit at any time and shall have access to
the books of the organizations. When a call for an audit is made, the following must be submitted: Cash journal,
individual ledger, bank pass book, and vouchers or other forms of receipt for all money expended.

3. Payment of fall term salaries will be made after the reports of December 1st have been received and the
books for the term verified and approved by the board. In the spring, the payments will be made when books
are surrendered and accounts verified and approved.

4. All records and funds are to be turned over to the treasurer of the college at the end of
the school year in May and kept by him to be turned over to the incoming managers and treasurers of
organizations.

5. Pass books are to be surrendered also and all bank balances to the credit of organizations are to be
held in the bank for the incoming officers.

6. All accounts are to be opened with the bank in the name of the organization for which the manager
or treasurer is acting and not in his name as manager or treasurer.

7. The audit board shall recommend to the student body the names of students who are to be voted on
for places on the coming year’s board, but this does not exclude nominations from the floor at the time of
election.

8. The audit board shall formulate rules necessary for the proper conduct of the finances of the student organizations under
its supervision.

9. At the conclusion of each college year, the audit board shall make a condensed report of the finances of
each of the organizations to the student body and publish the same in the college paper.

10. The following scale of salaries for those managers and treasurers who are responsible for the funds of the various
organizations is announced:
- Treasurer of Eumenean Literary Society, $25.00 (fixed by society).
- Treasurer of Philanthropic Literary Society, $30.00 (fixed by society).
- Business Manager Davidsonian, $50.
- Business Manager Magazine, $20.
- Treasurer Athletic Association, $75.
- Business Manager Quips and Cranks (Annual), $50.
- Treasurer Y.M.C.A., $10.

The audit board is able to report that the books of organizations have been well kept, on the whole, although
there was some confusion at first due to the fact that this is the first year of the new system,
and a number of details had to be arranged and adjusted. An itemized statement of finances for each organization will
be made at the close of the year.

AS HE EXPERIENCED IT.
“Describe water, Johnny,” said the teacher.
“Water,” explained Johnny, “is a white fluid that turns black when you put your hands in it.”—Ex.

I reach into the dark,
Feel what I cannot see, and still faith stands.
—Browning.

In this conference, he takes a part in the Association for Teachers of English. Not only is Dr. Fulton known
as a Professor of English and as an author of several books, but he is also connected with other associations
for the more systematic study of English.

ORCHESTRA AND GLEE CLUB
The same as the one taken last year. Leaving Davidson on Monday, the 26th, they go first to Lenoir, then
to Asheville, where two performances are scheduled, then to Marion. A date in Hickory is probable, but this has not
been definitely settled yet. They will arrive in Davidson on Thursday, the 29th of March.

You have done what you could. Some he

DAVIDSONIAN, March 21, 1917

CAMPUSSISMS.
Dr. R. O. McLaughlin

VOLUNTEERS BEGIN DEPUTATION WORK
Judging from the looks of the new grandstand being built on Sprunt Field, there will soon be no need to
stand up along the sidelines.

413 Realty Building
Charlotte, N. C.

* * *

The plans of the Volunteer Band have been completed. It has been the custom for a number of years for
various members of the Volunteer Band, who so desire, to visit churches in the vicinity of Davidson and speak in
the interest of missions. This year the plans included visits to nine churches by about a dozen members of the
band. Harmony and Bethany churches, near Statesville; Bethesda, Loray, Statesville First, Little Joe’s Church at Barium Springs, Prospect, Kannapolis, and
Mooresville First are among the number that will be visited. Most of the speeches were given on last Sunday, although
several will not go out until later in the year. Those going last Sunday report interest shown in the work
which they represented. The volunteers taking part in this work are: Brand, Cumming, Rankin, Knight, Hobson, Price, Hamilton, Roberts, Cousar,
and McClure. Plans may be made in the future that will include other members.

Spring must be here, for the shaved heads have begun to shine forth. Another sign on the campus of the
approach of spring is the playingof the very fascinating game of horseshoes.

* * *

Dr. Sentelle: Mr. Johnson, how many wise men were there?
Johnson: Forty.

* * *

A complete line of Spring and Summer woolens, Feather weights and Kool Kloths.
Storrs - Schaefer Company
GILBERT & PATTERSON
Representatives

* * *

J. F. George, '19, who has been very sick with fever, is again able to be out.

* * *

D. S. Epps, '19, is back on the Hill after a three weeks’ sickness.

* * *

During the past week L. L. Wilson, DRINA, Good, Sullivan, Chambliss, Guy, “Red” Smith I, “Red” Smith II and T.
N. Chero-Cola Morton have found it possible to leave the infirmary. The departure of these 5 men marks the total
evacuation of the infirmary by its inmates.

* * *

Made at the cleanest shop in North Carolina
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Chero-Cola Bottling Company
10 N. Church St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Geo. G. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Mooresville, N. C.
Pay us a visit and we will convince you of the quality of our goods

FORD TRIP
Mooresville
ANYWHERE—ANYTIME
CALL WHITE DRUG CO

* * *

PROF. FULTON TAKING PART IN CONFERENCE

Everyone is glad to see “Dutch” Hengeveld back on the Hill. He was called home three weeks ago on account
of the illness of his parents, both of whom are now much better. The baseball diamond, also, will be glad
to see this veteran twirler.

* * *

Dr. M. G. Fulton left Monday for Macon, Ga., to attend the Southern Conference for Education and Industry in the
formation of a Southern Association. L. H. Patterson was recently summoned to the bedside of his brother, who is very
ill.

* * *

SUGGESTIONS ON A LOST ART.

Automatic and efficient instruction in English. He is a member of the National Council of English Teachers, and is the
Southern Field Agent of the Simplified Spelling Board. Mrs. Fulton accompanied him to Macon.

* * *

HOW TO STUDY

1. Turn the picture of your girl face to the wall.
2. Hang your coat over all works.
3. Go to the movies first. You feel relaxed and can sleep much better then.
4. Practice concentration by thinking what you would do with a million.
5. Keep a calendar above your desk. One with the holidays in red letters.
6. Start out studying the easiest ones first. You won't quit as quick.
7. When writing up notes condense them as much as possible, so that the meaning is utterly intangible.
8. Never do at night what you can do in the daytime.
9. Postpone Physics and E. E. experiments until Sunday afternoon. This will relieve much of the tediousness.
10. Keep in condition by smoking between rounds.
11. Be sure and turn out the light before going to bed.—Penn. State Froth.

* * *

PLANS ARE ANNOUNCED

The Orchestra and Glee Club will start on their next trip on the 26th of March. This trip is practically
the

* * *

BIG LINE SPRING SHOES

New Styles—Old Prices

* * *

LOOKING FORWARD.

Finish every day and be done with it. Tomorrow is a new day. Begin it well and serenely, and with
too high a spirit to be cumbered with your old nonsense. This day is all that is good and fair.
It is too dear, with its hopes and invitations, to waste a moment on the yesterdays.—Emerson.

* * *

The following clipping from the Chattanooga News of March 13th will be read with interest here at Davidson:

“Among workers for the relief of flood sufferers during the past week who are receiving much praise for untiring effort
is young William Martin, of Davidson, N. C., a student at McCallie School. Many cases of suffering were alleviated and
many rescues accomplished by the aid of this young man, who, it is stated, worked day and night during the
greatest part of last week without stopping. William Martin is the son of the President of Davidson College.”

* * *

In addition to these officers, the following men were elected by the staff at its last meeting: E. G. Lilly,
Managing Editor; E. A. Woods, Assignment Editor; W. T. Johnson, J. T. Maddry and R. D. Hall, Assistant Managers. L.
M. Thomas and R. E. McClure were elected as new members of the staff.

* * *

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres.
W. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

* * *

When in Mooresville Visit
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

* * *

Dr. H. G. Cartledge spent a day on the campus last week making plans for his work here next year
as Associate Professor of Chemistry.
