4 The DAVIDSONIAN, September 26, 1917

ALUMNI NOTES

Andrew Brown has returned to Davidson for his M.A. degree.
A. R. Craig is teaching in Pendleton, S.C.
E. H. Hamilton, L. H. Eikel, and H. S. Morgan are at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
J. P. Laird, Jr., is with the Western Union Telegraph Company, headquarters at 195 Broadway, Room 1927, New York City.
D. I. McKeithen is principal of the high school at Ashboro, N. C.
J. W. Mann is teaching at Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.; R. L. Murray, at Elise High School, Hemp, N.
C.; and F. M. Mitchell, at Elizabeth City, N.C.
T. J. Mitchell is with the Bureau of Municipal Research, New York City.
J. R. Morton is in business in Savannah, Ga., with the Southern Cotton Oil Company.
P. B. Price is at the University of Virginia.
H. F. Mayfield, J. C. Paisley, and E. P. Nisbet are attending the second Officers' Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe.

The following received commissions as second lieutenants of infantry, U. S. R.:

Right Now

The College Christian Endeavor Society has a twofold purpose: first, to benefit the students in college; and secondly, to act
as a clearing house for the Christian Endeavor work in general. The students come from their hometowns and meet together
in the College Society, where the movement is studied thoroughly. Here they learn of the Christian Endeavor and new ideas
are exchanged. They return home where these ideas may be put into use in strengthening the home society or in
starting new ones.

The Christian Endeavor is needed more now than at any other time. Among the soldiers, the Y. M. C. A.
works extensively, but this cannot reach all, and here is where the Christian Endeavor is needed to strengthen the boys
in camp for all kinds of temptations. There are three requisites for the establishing of a worldwide movement: first, a
worldwide need; secondly, a worldwide power; and thirdly, a worldwide leadership. These three have been met by the Christian Endeavor.

So much for the greatness of the Christian Endeavor movement. It is interesting to know that the Christian Endeavor has
meant a great deal in colleges, there being in this State three college societies, at Elon, Guilford, and Davidson. A
banner will be awarded at the State Convention next year to the college society making the best record for this
year’s work. Guilford was the best last year, but Davidson has started with the determination to make this year far
outstrip its previous one. Davidson must win the banner this year.

We have very little chance to take part in the Y. M. C. A. meetings as there are very few,
comparatively speaking, who handle the work of the Y. M. C. A., but all have a chance to take part
in the Christian Endeavor. As Davidson has Volunteer and Ministerial Bands for those interested in missions and the ministry, every
man not con-

WHERE CLASS OF 5 PHS YEA

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky

Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life
for students. Write the President.

I Will Mend Your Shoes
All work done by hand and satisfaction guaranteed.
Remember my room number: 23 S. W. Chambers
W. C. SMITH

For---
EXPERT STENOGRAPHIC WORK
See---
J. A. Thames
72 Chambers

$50.00... At the first Officers’ Training Camp the past summer and are now stationed with the National Army: S. R.
Keesler, W. Mattison, and B. P. Roddey. W. P. Keesler and C. E. Rankin are second lieutenants of cavalry, U.S.
D. V. Hudson is teaching at Kashing, China. C. R. Jenkins is pursuing the medical course at Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore; A. B. Reese, Jr., is in the same department at Harvard, and W. Y. Sayad at Yale.

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
Something good to eat ALL the time.
See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

There is an opinion among some that the Christian Endeavor is only for “ministers and missionaries,” but this idea is
false, as it is for all interested in Christianity regardless of what their aim in life may be. The new
students are especially invited to attend the meetings, which are held at 6:10 every Sunday evening in Shearer Hall, and
to become members.

When You Buy Kuppenheimer
You are getting the best values possible to produce. Here can be seen the newest correct ideas in CLOTHES.
MECKLENBURG STONEWALL
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

N. White is in the Coast Artillery Corps, stationed at Fort Caswell, N. C. R. E. Hughes is in the
Medical Corps, Louisville, Ky. Reports have not been received as to the whereabouts of the other few members of the
class. Of those here for the M.A. degree last year, R. H. Bennett is a member of the U.S. Marines;
W. A. Johnson is teaching at Berry School, Mt. Berry, Ga.; H. W. Ormond is teaching at the Normal Training
School, Greensboro, N. C.; and W. P. Thomson is a second lieutenant of Infantry, U.S.R., and is stationed at Columbia,
S. C.

E. B. Hale, ex-’20, is in Knoxville Business College and cannot do without his Davinsonian. C. F. Monroe, ex-’18, is
doing his bit in the U.S. Naval Reserve Office, in Fernandina, Fla. He says, “I would like very much to
be back at D.C. this year.” The Davinsonian is the next best thing to being on the Hill.

R. T. Scott, ex-'18 (“Scott Did It”) is in Petersburg, Va. J. H. Mer is supply sergeant in the Third
Arkansas, at Camp Brough, Little Rock.

J. P. SAUNDERS, President
Wallace & Sons
BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
31-33 West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.

Senior—Have you gotten fixed up in a washing club yet?
Freshman (dropping his head)—That is right! You do have to buy a bowl and pitcher and things like that, don’t
you?

Brockmann’s
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, and Greensboro.
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
