2 22 - The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD.
P. B. Price........... Editor-in-Chief
J. A. Thames........Managing Editor
R. H. Stone....... Assignment Editor
T. J. Mitchell......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
R. H. Ratchford
J. R. Wood
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

The Reporters for this issue are:
R. E. McClure, J. B. Woods, O. C. Williamson, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., R. T. Liston, G. D. Sample, L.
P. Good, C. Howell, J. R. Boswell, W. B. Harwood, J. W. Clark, A. R. Craig, J. F. Webber, T.
C. Stone, J. F. McClerkin, D. M. Chalmers, L. H. Eikel, J. R. Morton, C. W. Foreman.

MANAGEMENT.
W. H. Neal........ Business Manager
G. F. Webber
O. J. Thies, Jr.
G. C. Bellingrath
Assistant Managers

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Subscription, $1 Per Year

REFLECTIONS ON JUNIOR SPEAKING.

Junior Speaking has gone. The ladies have departed. No longer do the long halls of Chambers reverberate the frightening yell
"Fire!" The Junior is glad that the one dreaded milestone of his college career is history. Now he smiles when
he meditates on that short cycle, through which he stood trembling, pale, and nervous, before the eager repository of his
oratory—his audience. He cares not whether his thought was of interest to all—just so that time has passed. For him,
he seems to enter upon a new life. He resolves to do better work—more work in literary society, attain a
greater proficiency in English composition. This new life brings a new purpose, a new intention. The prospect for him is
delightful—the walls of his room are studded with gems—reflecting rays of refulgence over his desk, at which he has “boned”
many a long, weary hour. The Greek gods of the wind are soon to dwell in the large shades overspreading
the curving walks. The main drive is paved with gold. All is glory. Then he stirs—thinks of the next day
of recitation in which he swings again into the same routine. Thoughts of the Senior speech grasp and cover his
mind as a sailboat is hidden and oppressed in a fog. The forehead wrinkles—the eyes grow large, once again the
student is on “his feet,” and after all hours of study are caging him in before the walls of the
great college know him no more, and which he must surmount before—with “dip” in hand he starts upon a journey
of hoped-for bliss and prosperity.

R. H. S., JR.

PROGRAM FOR NEXT Y. M. C. A. MEETING

Dr. W. R. Dobyns, of St. Joseph, Mo., one of the foremost ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will be
on the Hill Thursday and address the Y. M. C. A. Those who heard him two years ago, when he
led the Y. M. C. A. meetings here, know that he is a man of power and that whatever his
subject, he will deliver a message worth hearing. Dr. Dobyns has come East for the special purpose of conducting and
speaking at the Student Volunteer Convention at Greensboro. He will arrive at Davidson Thursday and will leave the following morning
with the delegates from Davidson for the convention, which will begin Friday.

JOINT MEETING HELD SUNDAY

The Ministerial Band, the Volunteer Band, and the Christian Endeavor Society held a joint meeting in Shearer Hall last Sunday
evening at 6:45. The meeting was conducted along modern Christian Endeavor lines. The subject was “Service,” and G. C. Bellingrath
was the leader. After the discussion, Mr. E. M. Shepherd, of Winston-Salem, gave a few remarks. He urged each one
to take a special interest in the extension work of Christian Endeavor in the South. Fowle, Coachman, Shields, and Tremain
then favored the society with some special music. The meeting wasclosed after E. H. Hamilton made an announcement about the
Volunteer Convention to be held in Greensboro on March 9-11. A number of the visiting young ladies were present with
their escorts.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS TO ATTEND CONVENTION

Those who are connected with the North Carolina Volunteer Union state that plans for the Volunteer Convention on Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday in Greensboro are now complete and that Davidson will be represented by thirty-four delegates. They will leave on
the noon train on Friday and will return Monday. At an open meeting during the convention, four Davidson men, J.
R. Woods, W. Y. Sayad, E. H. Hamilton, and D. V. Hudson, will make short addresses on phases of mission
work in which they are interested.

UNCLE HIRAM'S GRAVE SOON TO BE MARKED

The contributions of the students for “Uncle Hiram’s” tombstone have been raised as far as possible and have been placed
in the hands of Dr. Martin. Dr. Martin is going to select a suitable stone at Charlotte, probably a simple
slab with his name and other details. The stone was given by the students in token of their true sorrow
at the death of one who gave the best part of his life in the service of the college, and
one who held the affection and esteem of all the students.

TRAPPING IDEAS

Every year at least half a dozen men of national or international reputation come to Chapel Hill to speak primarily
to the student body. They are generally big men with broad minds which they have had focused for a long
time on some phase of literature, philosophy, science, or some other branch of human endeavor. They come bringing to us
fresh viewpoints, broader outlooks, new ideas. And yet at practically every lecture there is plenty of standing room in Gerrard
Hall, not to mention several empty seats. It may be true that all habits are bad, but if so, the
going-to-lectures habit is surely one of the least evil. It is certainly more profitable and, in both the short run
and the long run, more pleasant than the staying-from-lectures habit. —Ex.

And they bring us the fruits of their thinking. They have something to say and they know how to say
it.

“Every Job a Good One”

See W. H. NEAL
Our Davidson Agent

Standard Publishing Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING that Pleases Particular People

The fact that 75% of our business comes over the phone and by mail, without quotation, argues well of the
confidence placed in us by our patrons. The fact that we seldom lose a customer indicates that their confidence is
not misplaced. If you have not yet placed this confidence in us, we can assure you your experience will be
the same.

Boost the Athletic Association

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. S. Patterson, - - Representative

by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY
Best line of Tennis Goods, Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

TALBOT & ARROW are curve cut to fit the neck

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
R. H. DeBUTTS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Union Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

“FORD TRIP... see R. D. MOONEY”

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived: NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY

L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats :: Fruits and Candies :: FANCY GROCERIES

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Baseball
THE COMMISSARY
