t.) The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

EDITORIAL BOARD
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods....... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
R. E. McClure
J. R. Wood
L. M. Thomas
A. P. Saunders
H. B. Fraser

MANAGEMENT
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
J. T. Maddrey
W. T. Johnson Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

The reporters for this issue are:
C. Howell, W. H. Harrell, N. Y. Pharr, N. V. Morton, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. C. Neel, T. E.
Guy, G. A. Byrd, Jr., L. H. Eikel, H. T. Lilly, H. A. Campbell, T. C. Stone, S. T. McCloy,
W. J. Huneycutt, W. M. Currie, W. F. Beal, and W. T. Dunlap, Jr.

The Davidsonian will be glad to print all signed communications pertaining to matters of interest.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.
Subscription, $1 Per Year

OUR FEELING.
The precise analysis of our feeling in entering upon these editorial duties is a difficult one. It certainly is not
like that of the imaginative, glittering poet who sat before a piece of statuary and an “ebony bird” which was
saying “Nevermore, Nevermore.” But it approaches the seriousness and the responsibility of him who is guiding our nation through perils
and storms and divers kinds of fierce annoyances. We have a great feeling and appreciation for our college and those
things for which it stands, and for those “trained, devoted, and inspired alumni” who are glorying in their Alma Mater.

OUR DEBT.
We are richly endowed by former editorial staffs with a fund of principle in journalism which will be invaluable to
us in giving you the paper which you deserve. The staff is intensely grateful to those who have gone before
us, who have given us the system on which our paper is edited. And it is fitting to say that
we believe this system does not have its equal in the South. Again, we are indebted to those students who
work indefatigably for this publication. And to the alumni, we thank you for the interest which is accorded The Davidsonian.

OUR PURPOSE.
It is our purpose to maintain and increase the standard of The Davidsonian. In an attractively written form, we intend
to publish the news of the college. We intend to draw the alumni closer—to make friends better friends—and to co-operate
with those in concerted action to further Davidson’s interests. And we are going to defend and maintain high standards of
student honor and integrity. To do this we need the co-operation of the student body, faculty, and alumni. If you
appreciate the efforts made on the part of the staff, you are going to give us your support.

Your attention is directed to two articles appearing in this issue: one concerning the organization of the Rifle Club; the
other, an article in the Forum which is voicing the standard of democracy as against blatant militarism. This Rifle Club
movement is in vogue in several colleges of the South. At the University of North Carolina, there is a club
of one hundred who are doing drill work. They moved benches from their Memorial Hall to begin their drill. We
have space, too—the Commencement Hall. But what is the need of this? Many say “Preparedness”—the same thing you have heard
for several years. The Davidson man who does not volunteer at the first call is neither “cold-footed” nor (in football
vernacular) “yellow.” When our country is in imminent peril, then the true Davidson spirit will exert itself. During the Civil
War, the sons of Davidson went to the front and fought like men. They will do it again if necessary.
But is it right to infuse a lot of military tactics into the mind of the student—to keep him in
a high tension of war—at this stage of the game? Should this be done at the cost of scholastic neglect,
which inevitably results? Your country has not called you. Dr. J. M. McConnell says that he thinks it improbable that
if we go to war with Germany that we will have to furnish land forces. And they do not use
rifles of the calibre used here in submarines nor does our Navy attempt to puncture armor plate with a bullet
so minute.

BASEBALL.
Today swings us into a new cycle—baseball. The fight for the championship is on. Twenty games are scheduled—of this number
eight are to be played on Sprunt Field. The team is in fine form and the practice has been thorough.
And the same Red and Black spirit, which is characteristic of all of Davidson’s teams, goes out with them to
victory. Our team usually getsGood support. This season indications are that support will be better than in former years. The
principle of support is a psychological factor—the team is made to feel the importance of the game—“pep” is inculcated into
the team and the players are stimulated to victory. But there is a form of excess energy often seen on
athletic fields which is intended to help the team—but it is of the negative kind—a hindrance. This is guying and
“horsing” the opponents. At Davidson, this is not countenanced by the coach nor by other authorities. It has been relegated
to the relics of prep-schoolism. Probably in high school at one of your great games, after yapping at your opponents
in a shameful manner, you were approached by your “blue flower”—and she, smilingly, informed you that you had starred in
your enthusiasm. Forget this element of glory—it does not go at Davidson. We quote the National Collegiate Association: “Talking to
your opponents, if it falls short of being abusive or insulting, is not prohibited by the rules, partly because it
ought not to be necessary and partly because no rules can make a gentleman out of a mucker. No good
sportsman is ever guilty of cheap talk to his opponents.” This was intended for the players, but we give it
for those who might think that college ideals ran in lower levels. Dr. W. L. Dudley, of Vanderbilt, once President
of the S. I. A. A., says: “The athletic field is one of the greatest laboratories in an institution of
learning for developing personal honor, self-control, and courtesy.” Not for a moment would you think of going into the science
laboratories and materially detracting the focused attention of the student at his desk. You respect his purpose in view—the training
and knowledge he is getting. Then your team and their opponents are in the same lab. Why not in like
manner refrain from detracting from their development?

Just A Little Different

Did you ever stop to think of the direct advantages to be gained from printing that will catch the eye
and hold it long enough to create a favorable attitude on the part of the buying public? Printing of the
ordinary kind has become so weatherbeaten by unlimited usage that the impression formed in the mind of the business man
of today is one of continuous and depressing sameness—a tendency to cause a “look-around-more” disposition on the part of him
who wants something just a little different, if not entirely distinctive, when compared with the current stationery that reaches his
office. We invite a careful and studied analysis of the samples we always keep on hand for your inspection. It
is the aim and purpose of each unit that goes to make up the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. to tend
every effort possible to satisfy a customer absolutely. A thorough test will furnish any proof desired. Let us quote you
prices on any printing that is ordinarily—or extraordinarily—used in the modern commercial field.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. Tryon St.
Phone 643
W. H. NEAL
Davidson Representative

Boost the Athletic Association by purchasing your Athletic Goods and College Pennants from the COMMISSARY. Best line of Tennis Goods,
Football Clothes, Pennants, Etc.

FORM = ARROW formfit COLLARS are curve cut to fit the shoulders perfectly.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY
Special Attention Given to Athletic Trips
The Southern Serves the South
S. E. BURGESS, Div. Pas. Agt.
22 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
L. H. Patterson, - - Representative
33 South Tryon

The Astor Lunch
First Class Restaurant for Charlotte Ladies & Gentlemen

For that FORD TRIP.... see R. D. MOONEY

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Just Arrived:
L. B. LONG
Seed, Wheat, Rye & Oats
Fruits and Candies
NEW LINE OF SHIRTS
BROWN - KNOX MERCANTILE COMPANY
FANCY GROCERIES

Support the cheerleader. It is not the intention to suppress college spirit. But to idealize a manifestation of the larger
and finer spirit. This is needed for victory—for the championship.

NOTICE.
Several of our subscribers have reported to the Circulation Manager that they have failed to get certain issues of The
Davidsonian. This is due to the fact that sometimes the machine used to address them fails to work. If you
do not receive an issue of The Davidsonian, write a postal card to the Circulation Manager, O. C. Williamson, and
you will be mailed a copy. This notice applies to those receiving complimentary issues as well as regular subscribers.

In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of Baseball. Get supplied at THE COMMISSARY.
