The Davidsonian, May 2, 1917

Literary Societies SCHEDULE.

Debate Saturday night, May 5th:
Philanthropic—Affirmative: Currie, Foreman, Spratt, and Davenport. Negative: W. C. Worth, Campbell, Hamilton, and L. L. McAlister.

At the regular meeting of the Phi Society on last Saturday night, April 28th, the subject for debate was: "Resolved,
That the United States should permanently retain the Philippines." The men upholding the affirmative were: H. A. Campbell, W. T.
Dunlap, and R. Kornegay. Those on the negative were: D. I. McKeithan, J. A. Thames, and J. K. Fleming. Among
the chief points brought out by the affirmative were: (1) The islands would be a strategic naval base in time
of war; (2) it would be a loss economically to lose our hold on them; (3) the Philippines are not
yet ready and capable to govern themselves. The negative contended: (1) Loss of the islands would not necessarily mean loss
to American interests therein; (2) at the present they are a loss to us economically, and because of that, we
had better sell them, or (3) give them their independence, as they are able and ready for self-government. The judges
decided in favor of the negative. The debate was full of pep, but showed very little preparation on the part
of the men, the reason being that several were appointed on short notice.

The meeting of the Phi Society for Monday morning, April 30, was given up entirely to the election of officers
for next fall’s term. The following is the list of the officers elected with their respective positions: President, J. A.
Thames; Vice-President, W. M. Currie; Secretary, D. M. Chalmers; First and Second Supervisor, W. E. Hall and Foscue; First and
Second Critics, Fowle and C. W. Worth; Treasurer, Maddrey. W. M. Currie was also elected as a member of the
Debating Council for the next two years. The last meeting of the society is to be held next Saturday night,
May 5. The president also announced that there would be a called meeting of the society on May 14 for
the inauguration of the new officers.

In the Eumenean Society on Saturday night, April 28, the affirmative side of the debate was upheld by Brown, Patterson,
and McGirt. Those on the negative were Hudson, G. M. Robson, and Hamilton. The affirmative contended that we must retain
the islands to prevent Japan’s becoming too strong in the East. The negative advanced the argument that our national honor
was pledged that we would not indefinitely rule the Philippines. The judges decided in favor of the negative. The debate
as a whole was an excellent one.

On Monday morning, April 30, two speakers gave declamations; three gave orations. The declamations were by McGirt, “The Grandeur of
Man;” and by Potts, Roosevelt's “Admonition to the American People.” Orations were delivered by Hobson, speaking on “The Eumenean Society;”
Hudson, “Courtship of Andrew Brown;” and Brown, “New War Vessels.” This was the last regular meeting of the Eumenean Society
for the session 1916-17.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE IS HELD

The Junior and Senior representatives from the two literary societies matched their forensic skill in the annual inter-society debate Monday
night in the Phi Hall. The question discussed was, “Resolved, That an alliance of all American Nations should take the
place of the Monroe Doctrine.” The debate was spirited and interesting. Each speaker showed himself master of his material and
presented his arguments in a compelling way. The Eu. Society, represented by Messrs. Craig, Cousar, and J. K. Woods, defended
the affirmative side of the question. The negative was upheld by Messrs. Webber, Cumming, and Fowle, of the Phi Society.
The first speaker of the affirmative argued first that the Monroe Doctrine is vague and indefinite and untenable; second, that
it has aroused the hatred of South America, Central America, and Europe. The points of the second speaker on the
affirmative were...First, that the Monroe Doctrine is unjust, and second, that it is a hindrance to self-protection. The last gentleman
of the affirmative dwelt on the desirability and the practicability of an alliance. The first representative of the negative, after
defining the Monroe Doctrine, showed that this doctrine is needed today, and second, that an alliance is impractical. The second
speaker showed that the Monroe Doctrine, rightly interpreted, is acceptable to the American Nations. This speaker showed that the present
ill feeling is not against the principle of the doctrine but against non-essentials that can be remedied. The second speaker
also showed that an alliance is the natural outgrowth of the Monroe Doctrine. The last speaker of the evening showed,
first, that an alliance is undesirable, and second, that the Monroe Doctrine is better than an alliance. This speaker dwelt
on the difficulties involved in an alliance. The judges, Dr. Richards, Dr. Arbuckle, and Mr. Jenkins, decided in favor of
the Phi side. Mr. Cumming, of the Phi, and Mr. Cousar, of the Eu, were awarded the medals for the
best debates.

COLLEGE BAND CONCERT GIVEN LAST FRIDAY

Last Friday afternoon from 5:30 to 6:30 the College Band, which was recently organized under the leadership of E. P.
Childs, director of the orchestra, gave an open-air concert. The players were seated on a small platform arranged for the
occasion in front of the P. K. A. fraternity hall. The student body and many of the townspeople were present
to hear the music of the band. Beneath the shade of the large elms and oaks, the crowd was seated
on the beautiful lawn and listened attentively to the music. At length, the band struck up the tune of “Dixie,”
and with yells and cheering, the listeners suddenly sprang to their feet. The program was concluded with the rendering of
“The Star-Spangled Banner,” when the assembled company stood with bared heads.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB ADOPTS A PROGRAM

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained by Mrs. J. L. Currie at its meeting last Friday. Visitors present were Miss
Souther, of St. Louis; Mrs. White, of Statesville; and Miss Adams, of New York. A program for next year was
prepared. Miss Ellenwood prepared the program for the afternoon, which consisted of readings from Du Maupassant, Daudet, and Coppee.

“If a man can preach a better sermon, write a better book, or make a better mousetrap than his neighbor,
though he build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door,” provided he
advertises in The Davidsonian. TRY IT. $3.85 Per Inch for 31 Issues.

NOTICE

I will sell at public auction for cash on Saturday, May 5th, at 10:00 A.M. all stock of Groceries, Canned
Goods, Cigars, Tobacco, Confectioneries, Stationery, Fixtures, etc., belonging to S. C. Scofield, at Scofield’s Store, Davidson, N. C. L. B.
VREELAND, Assignee.

QUEENS COLLEGE FOR YOUNG WOMEN

Has a healthy location, in Myers Park, at Charlotte, N. C. Regular street car service connecting with the city. Has
a 50-acre campus. All building equipment new. Dormitories the best in the country. Private bath and toilet to each two
rooms. For particulars write to CAPT. WILLIAM ANDERSON, Treasurer, Charlotte, N. C., Myers Park.

American Trust Company Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee Capital and Undivided Profits $700,000

Patronize Our Advertiser FIRST. Tell him you saw it Advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN. If he hasn’t it, Try the Other
Fellow. Tell him that he has something that ought to be advertised in THE DAVIDSONIAN.
