bi) y THEDAVI. Vol. V.

Y. M. C. A. Campaign Closed Thursday Night
Deep Impression Made on Campus by Services.

Last Thursday night brought to a close the Y. M. C. A. fall campaign. From all points of view, this
campaign was on a par with those of past years, and from it, the whole student body has received great
benefit. The services began Monday night and lasted through Thursday, preaching in the morning at 12:30, and in the evening
at 7:15. The meeting was conducted by Dr. Wright, the Indian evangelist, assisted by his singer, Mr. Young. Mr. Wright
is a short, dark man, who speaks in a quick, alert manner. He is half Indian, his father being a
full-blood Choctaw, his mother Scotch-Irish. His early life was spent on the plains, and after he entered the ministry, much
of his work was done among his own people. From a life so full of varied and interesting experiences, he
could draw a wonderful fund of apt and striking illustrations.

“I love to be with men,” he said in his opening sermon, and these words strike the keynote of his
success as a minister. He is a man who loves to mingle with his fellow men, and by that mingling
to help them and to strengthen them. Nowhere did this trait find more expression than in his sermons. He spoke
directly and earnestly and simply; he spoke with dignity, and yet without formality, and with a familiarity that did not
breed contempt.

The topic of his first sermon was “Examine Your Heart.” Other themes were “Why I Believe the Bible to be
the Word of God,” “Excuses,” “What Is Faith,” “The Necessity of Confessing Christ.” His two sermons on “Why I Believe
the Bible” were particularly instructive, and everyone should have an outline of these two addresses. The first reason given by
Dr. Wright for believing the Bible is the statement of Jesus Himself. Jesus set His seal of approval on the
Canon of the Scriptures, and Jesus, Dr. Wright showed, was indeed the Son of God. His life was not a
fictitious life, nor was His life written by collusion. The life and works of Jesus, the resurrection of Jesus, and
His influence through the ages testify to the genuineness of the record.

The second reason is the unity of design. A book whose composition extended over fifteen hundred years and yet preserves
throughout the one central theme must have been planned by one Mind. The third reason is fulfilled prophecy. The life
of Christ Himself was fulfilled prophecy, the prophecies against Jerusalem and against the Jew himself have come true. Among numerous
other illustrations might be mentioned those against Tyre and Babylon. The fourth reason is the omnipotence of the Bible against
attack. In spite of the legion of writers who have attacked the Bible, it remains today without a single cardinal
doctrine destroyed, and the more we know about the world and science, the more we come to realize the truth
of the Bible. The influence of the Bible on the civilization of the world, and the power of the Bible
(Continued on page 6)

Red and Black Triumphs Over V. M. I. Cadets
Davidson Wins From Cadets by Decisive Score of 23 to 7, Outclassing Her Opponents in Every Way.

In spite of splendid advance notices of the game, only a small crowd turned out to see Davidson College defeat
Virginia Military Institute on Wearn Field, Saturday, by a score of 23-7. The teams were practically evenly matched as to
weight, but Coach Fetzer's Flying Squadron outclassed the Cadets at every phase of the game. The Red and Black machine
had the jump on its opponents from the start, but V. M. I. put up her accustomed plucky fight. In
every way, the Virginians upheld their record, shown up again by her Army game.

Though every man on both teams did his full duty (and perhaps more), the individual stars were Leech, Dixon, and
Engleby, for V. M. I., and Spann, McAlister, Flowers, and King, for Davidson. Burns was unfit for the game because
of a sprained ankle. The features of the game were end runs by McAlister, Flowers, and Engleby, a long run
by Leech and McAlister, and the handling of forward passes by Spann and King. The game by plays is as
follows:

FIRST QUARTER
Davidson wins toss. Receives at south end of field. Leech kicked off 35 yards to Elliott, who returned 5. McAlister
hit left end for a yard; Crouch made 4 yards over right tackle. D.C. penalized 15 yards, holding. Spann failed
to gain round right end; Flowers kicked to Leech, who returned to 15-yard line. V. M. I.'s ball. Dixon made
3 yards through center, repeated again for 2 yards. V. M. I. penalized 5 yards, offside. Leech kicked to Flowers
in midfield. Flowers downed in tracks. D.C.'s ball on her 40-yard line. Flowers hit left guard for 3 yards; McAlister
failed to gain through center. V. M. I. penalized 5 yards, offside. Flowers over guard, out of bounds. McAlister failed
to gain around left end. A pass by Spann to Richardson netted 10 yards. Crouch over right tackle made 7
yards.Spann failed to gain around left end, but went through center for first down. Flowers over tackle and McAlister over
guard made a yard apiece. Forward pass to King made 10 yards. Crouch and McAlister over guard made 2 yards.
Spann hit center for a touchdown. Flowers kicked out and kicked goal. D.C. 7: V.M.I. 0. Grey kicked off 55
yards to Leech, who fumbled. Dixon returned 20 yards. Dixon over right guard made 5 yards, repeated for 3, repeated
for first down. Dixon over left guard made 5 yards, repeated for 5 yards. Dixon thrown by Grey for 9-yard
loss. V.M.I. penalized 10 yards for blocking. Leech carried ball out of bounds for no gain. Smith failed at left
end. Leech kicked out of bounds. D.C.'s ball on own 45-yard line. McAlister and Spann failed to gain. Flowers made
3 around left end. Flowers punted 50 yards over goal line. V.M.I. scrimmage on own 20-yard line. Dixon and Leech
downed in SECOND QUARTER. Engleby over guard, Leech over tackle failed to gain. Leech punted 40 yards to Flowers, who
returned 15 yards, Davidson's ball on 50-yard line. McAlister tore off 13 yards around left end. V.M.I. penalized 10 yards.
McAlister went over right guard for 4 yards; Flowers around right end for 3 yards. V.M.I. penalized 5 yards. Flowers
made 5 yards around left end, repeated for 5 more. Crouch hammered guard for 3 yards, again for 2 yards.
Ball on V.M.I.’s 9-yard line. Time out for V.M.I. Flowers went over right tackle for a yard. Ball fumbled. Flowers
recovered on 7-yard line. Time out for Davidson. V.M.I.'s ball. Dixon gained 1 yard over left guard; Engleby went around
left end for 15 yards. Smith around right end made a yard. Engleby made 2 over right tackle. Leech hit
center for 4 yards. Engleby made 1 yard over left tackle. D.C.'s ball on V.M.I.'s 32-yard line. Marshall threw McAlister
for 3-yard loss. Forward pass to Richardson blocked. Pass from Flowers to King intercepted by Smith. Engleby made 1 yard
over left guard. Forward pass incomplete. Leech punted out of bounds. D.C.'s ball on own 5-yard line. Forward pass, Flowers
to King, netted 10 yards. Crouch downed in tracks. McAlister made 7 yards around right end, then 6 around left
end, then over left guard for 2 yards. Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. Grey punted out of bounds. V.M.I.'s
ball in midfield. McAlister intercepted forward pass and ran it back 20 yards. Forward pass blocked. D.C.'s ball, midfield. Half
over. Score: D.C. 7: V.M.I. 0. THIRD QUARTER. Grey kicked 55 yards to Leech; ball returned 20 yards. Engleby failed
over left tackle, but gained 1 yard over right tackle. Leech punted to McAlister. Davidson’s ball on own 25-yard line.
Time out for Davidson. McAlister tore off 8 yards over tackle. Flowers failed to gain over same place. Punted to
Leech on V.M.I.’s 37-yard line; no return. Anderson made a yard around right end. Engleby failed over left tackle, but
made first down around right end. Dixon failed to gain. D.C. penalized 5 yards, offside. Anderson failed at right end.
Leech lost 5 yards at left end. Forward pass incomplete. Leech punted 35 yards to Flowers, who returned 10 yards.
Davidson's ball on own 15-yard line. Grey made a clean run around left end for 25 yards, but D.C. penalized
5 yards for offside. Time out for Davidson. Grey punted 35 yards to Leech, who returned 5 yards. V.M.I.'s ball
on D.C.'s 40-yard line. Engleby over left tackle twice and Anderson over right tackle add up 4 yards. (Continued on
page 6)

DAVIDSONIAN DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 31, 1917. No. 8

Governor Bickett Thrills Audience Patriotic Address Is Feature of Davidson Day. Davidson Day exercises were held in Shearer Hall, Thursday
morning, October 25, the speaker of the occasion being Governor T.W. Bickett. Invocation was conducted by Dr. Martin, following which
Prof. A. Currie read a necrology of the alumni for the past year. Dr. J. Moore McConnell then read a
list of alumni upon whom honors had been conferred during the past year. Dr. McConnell stated that Davidson has from
her alumni two hundred and ninety-three ministers of the Gospel, twenty-six of whom are foreign missionaries and twenty-nine home missionaries.
Thirty of her alumni are college presidents, and eighty-three others are college professors. The oldest living alumnus with whom the
college is in communication is Mr. B.F. Wilson, Maysville, S.C., who is eighty-seven years of age. He is the grandfather
of P.B. Price, ‘17. Mr. J.W.A. Kerr, ex-’52, the second oldest alumnus, was present for the exercises. Mr. Kerr made
a few remarks to the audience concerning his college days here. Dr. Martin read a list of last year’s students
who have entered the Army service, also the Honor Roll for last year. Among those Davidson has contributed to the
cause of war have been Drs. J.W. McConnell and T.W. Lingle. Altogether, Davidson has contributed one hundred and sixty-five students
and alumni. Governor Bickett, the principal speaker, (Continued on page 6)
