Literary Societies SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, March 24th:
Eumenean — Affirmative: Crouch, Cunningham, Honeycutt, and Hudson. Negative: Harwood, Hobson, Hollandsworth, and Humphrey.
Philanthropic — Affirmative: Murray, R. W. Robinson, Morton, and Stogner. Negative: W. C. Neel, Thames, Sample, Wilson, and H. T. Lilly.

Declamations and Orations. Monday morning, March 26th:
Philanthropic — Orations: Paisley, Henderson, and Misenheimer. Declamations: Leyburn, Pharr, Chalmers, Tremain, and J. W. McAlister.
Eumenean — Orations: Johnson, Keesler, King, and F. M. Mitchell. Declamations: Harrell, Harris, Love, and N. S. Richards.

The query for the debate in the Phi Society last Saturday night was: “Resolved, That public service corporations should be owned by the municipal governments.” Those on the affirmative were: Maddrey, Nisbet, and Williamson. On the negative were: Fowle, Howell, and Carriker. The affirmative side contended that it would be best for the city governments to own the public service corporations because they could give cheaper and better service to the public. The negative contended that it would be undemocratic, that without competition the service would go down, and that there would be much graft in the city governments. The decision was in favor of the negative.

In the regular Monday morning meeting, the following orations were given: Clark spoke on “Unknown Southern Literature;” Grey talked about the situation with Germany, and Mann gave some of the “Laws Governing International Trade.” The declamations given were: Dunlap, “Military Glory;” Spence, “A Tribute to Southern Women;” R. D. Hall, “One Without a Home;” and Hamilton, “With Malice Toward None.”

The debate last Saturday night in the Eu Society, as a whole, was very good. Each side built its own air castle with great enthusiasm. The best point brought out on each side, however, was: The affirmative contended that the municipality system was the best, while the negative most emphatically insisted that it was not. The speakers were: Affirmative: A. R. Craig, R. R. Craig, Hamilton, and Potts. Negative: Carwile, Brown, Keesler, and T. J. Mitchell.

On Monday morning, Burgess gave a declamation: “Patrick Henry’s Appeal to Arms.” The three orations were: Frazer, “Naval Stars;” Frierson, “Why Sullivan Became a Minister;” and Hamilton, “Missionary Work and People in Africa.”

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST PRELIMINARIES

The preliminaries for the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest, which were to be held on Monday night, were postponed until last night. A good number from both societies entered, and on the whole, the speeches showed more variety and “pep” than usual. The judges selected from the Phi: W. M. Currie, R. D. Hall, J. T. Maddrey; while L. C. Brand, R. A. McGirt, and A. S. Potts won in the Eu. These six men will compete in the finals, which will be held in Shearer Hall on April 2nd, for the Declaimer’s Medal offered in each society.

The DAVIDSONIAN, March 21, 1917

TWO COLLEGE PRESIDENTS ENDORSE BLUE RIDGE

Dr. E. M. Poteat, President of Furman University, says: “Each year of my acquaintance with Blue Ridge I am more deeply impressed with the value of its work. This is the one new thing to say, namely, that it grows upon me. And when I see the growing complexity of college life in the South, I feel more keenly the need of comradeship with the finest spirits of our college communities on the highest levels. Blue Ridge supplies this, and there is no other enterprise in the South which does it anything like so well.”

Dr. W. A. Ganfield, President of Centre College, says: “It gives me great pleasure to try to tell you of my keen interest in and personal enthusiasm for Blue Ridge. The situation is ideal, the accommodations are complete in every way, and all the appointments and arrangements for personal comfort, recreation, and pleasure are superb. The program for the summer of 1916 was simply great. In all the country I could not find a place where I would rather spend ten days than at Blue Ridge. It would give me very great pleasure to be able to go every year. Just as soon as my son is old enough, I hope to send him every year until he gets through college. With all this personal enthusiasm and admiration for the place and the program and the college men who come, it is perfectly natural that I am anxious that Centre College might have a big delegation in 1917.

“I have no hesitancy in saying that ten days at Blue Ridge is the very best experience that can come to a college man during his entire course. The only experience better than that of the first summer at Blue Ridge would be a like visit the next summer. I am already looking forward with expectation to the pleasures, joys, and blessings of 1917.”

LAST Y. M. C. A. MEETING

The speaker at the weekly meeting of the Y. M. C. A. on Thursday night was Rev. J. H. Henderlite, of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, N.C. In a very striking and instructive way, Mr. Henderlite presented the subject of “The Variety and Unity of the Four Gospels,” saying in part that the purpose of their variety was to bring out their underlying unity, and to present four pictures of the varied nature of Christ as the Son of God, not simply as histories or biographies, but as stories. Matthew, writing to the Jews, gives his account a ceremonial stamp suited to their manner of thinking; Mark, writing for the Romans, showed the great power of Christ; Luke, writing to the Greeks, emphasized the humanity of Christ, while John was writing especially to the believers in Christ. Matthew pictures Him as the promised Messiah; Mark, as the mighty worker and the perfect servant; Luke, as the Son of Man; and John, as the Son of God. The speaker, in concluding, showed that Christ was the All-Powerful and All-Sufficient who could understand every want and satisfy every need.

1. No speaking can be successful which is not sincere.
2. One's effort, so far as there is conscious effort in it, should be towards simplicity of speech and without regard to beauty but solely aiming to accomplish the only legitimate aim of speaking, which is to carry conviction.
3. All reading, and particularly reading of the best nature,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In prose and poetry, does both aid in facility of expression, and ease and aptness of expression.—Secretary Baker.

With the Alumni

Rev. F. H. Wardlaw, ‘95, has removed from Charlotte, N. C., to Guthriesville, S.C.

Rev. H. S. Henderson, of Ackerman, Miss., spent the weekend with his brother, K. B. McCutcheon, ’20.

The class of ‘97 is planning to hold their twentieth annual reunion at Commencement. Professor Currie and Mr. Pierce Henderson, of Aiken, S. C., have charge of the plans for the reunion, and it is hoped that each matriculate of the class will attend, accompanied by his wife.

The sixth annual series of lectures on the James Sprunt Foundation at Union Theological Seminary began last week. The lecturer was Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, a graduate of Davidson College, formerly Professor of English in the University of North Carolina, now professor of the same department in the University of Virginia, and recently chosen by the United States Government as Professor of English in the Naval Academy at Annapolis. He gives nine lectures at the Seminary on the subject of “Keynote Studies in Keynote Books.”

A. B. Gibbs, ex-'16, is studying medicine at the University of Nebraska.

LYCEUM ENTERTAINMENT GIVEN LAST SATURDAY

The Doering Orchestral Quintette, composed of five ladies, gave a very delightful entertainment Saturday night in Shearer Hall, as the fourth of the local lyceum attractions for this year. A large and appreciative audience was present. While the program was largely instrumental, consisting of clarinet, cornet, cello, violin, and piano, there were interspersed throughout vocal solos, recitations, and other features which made the entertainment one of variety. The opening number was a march, “The Great Divide,” and from then until taps were sounded by the cornet as the conclusion of the program, each selection was received with favor and enjoyed by all. Violin solos by Mrs. Doering were especially good, and the recitations by Miss Burnside, of poems of James Whitcomb Riley and others, were cleverly rendered and well received. Among the pleasing selections by the entire company were “Barcarolle,” from Tales of Hoffman; “Norwegian Dance,” a medley of Southern songs, and some of the popular Hawaiian pieces.

ENTERTAINMENT GIVEN BY PROF. FULBRIGHT

On last Friday evening Professor Fulbright gave a delightful program of dramatic readings in Shearer Hall. The word “dramatic” might have deceived many; they were dramatic it is true, yet many a little tragedy which kept the audience holding their breath in sympathy, was brought to a climax which convulsed everyone in laughter. Professor Fulbright gave a number of comical selections in a most realistic manner. After an intermission, he read two poems, one by Rupert Brooke, entitled, “If I Should Die,” and another war poem by Kipling. Next followed an abridged form of the story “The Man Without a Country,” in which he graphically portrayed the horrors of being without a home. The entertainment was given in the interests of the Civic League, and the proceeds are to defray the expenses of laying out flowers and shrubbery across the railroad from the station.

LAST MONTH’S HONOR ROLL FOR LOCAL SCHOOL

The following students made the honor roll of the local school during the past month:

First Grade: Adelle Arbuckle, Margaret Brown, Virginia Brown, James Reed, Sarah Withers.

Second Grade: Mary Andrews, Mary G. Brown, Eva Forbis, Murray Fidler, William H. Jetton, Julia Thompson, Charlie Torrence, Pressly Morton, Jack Mooney.

Third Grade: Riggs McConnell, Lona Martin, Mary Hamilton.

Fourth Grade: Howard Arbuckle, Sara Barnette, Thomas Lathery, Anna Brown.

Fifth Grade: Sophie Richards, Thomas Hamilton, Hugh Cashion, Jean Martin, Eustace Lingle, Robert McMillan, Frank Justice, Owen Manning.

Sixth Grade: Mildred Hobbs, Eva Torrence, Johnsie Cashion.

Seventh Grade: Martha Hamilton, Anonie Lee Sigmon.

Eighth Grade: Annie Lois Barnette, Sarah Hamilton, Carl Ramsay, Wilburn Thompson.

Ninth Grade: Dowell Richards.

Tenth Grade: Madge Elliot, McElla Fisher, John Barnette.

The school is proud of the hedge which has recently been planted on the left side of the building. There has been much talk about a hedge, but it was not until the Civic League placed one there that this planning became a fact. The students and teachers are very grateful to the members of the League for this beautiful hedge.

IMPROVEMENTS BEING MADE AT STATION

Miss Rade, of the Southern Railway, has charge of all work that tends towards beautifying the ground around the station along the lines of the company. The improvements that she has made at Davidson are: Across from the railroad station, there is a hedge set out which surrounds a large plot that is filled with flowering plants and evergreens. After spring comes, and warm weather, the ground will look very much better on that side of the track. The Civic League, with the assistance of the college authorities, has ordered some Volga Poplars which are to be planted on this side of the station as a hedge. Eventually, there will be made a sidewalk on this side also, which will be a great improvement indeed. This last improvement is in addition to that which the Southern is making under the direction of Miss Rade. The time was when railroad stations were nothing but an eyesore, but now movements are being made all over the country to change that bad habit. Davidson's railroad station has long been in need of improvements, and they are now being made, which will make the station a very attractive place.

NEW Y. M.C. A. CABINET IS ANNOUNCED

The Y. M. C. A. cabinet for the coming year of the Association’s work is announced by J. L. Fowle, the new president, as follows: Attendance, G. C. Rellingrath; Bible Study, J. W. Clark; Christian Activities, R. W. Cousar; Devotional, J. R. Woods; Fresh Reception, J. B. Daffin; Mission Study, W. C. Cumming; Missionary Fund, L. M. Thomas; Personal Work, H. T. Lilly; Publications, A. P. Saunders. The customary joint meeting of the old and new cabinets was held on Sunday night at which time the work of each department was outlined for the benefit of the new men since they are to take charge on April 1st.