The DAVIDSONIAN
October 24, 1917

Y. M. C. A. CAMPAIGN OPENED MONDAY NIGHT

With a speaker of attractive personality and interesting delivery, the fall campaign of the Y. M. C. A. opened last
Monday night in a most promising manner. The speaker is the Rev. Mr. Wright, a Choctaw Indian, who for many
years has been a missionary in the West. He is a dark, active man who speaks in an earnest, convincing
manner. His talks are interspersed with anecdotes drawn from his experience on the plains and are full of interest and
especially appropriate. Mr. Wright is assisted in the meeting by his singer, Mr. Young, whose solos are a feature of
the services.

The campaign commenced Monday night, and will continue until Thursday. Two services a day are held, one at 12:30 to
take the place of chapel, and the other at 8 at night. Much interest seems manifest in the meetings, a
large per cent of the student body being out to hear Mr. Wright's initial address Monday night. In this address
Mr. Wright took as his subject: “Examine Your Heart.” He said that this was the way to know whether a
person was saved, and that once a person felt the power of Christ it would necessarily be shown in his
life. Christianity under a bushel is really no Christianity after all. He urged his hearers to look into their hearts
and see whether they truly felt saved, and whether they truly showed to the world their Christianity.

THE LIBERTY LOAN.

German propagandists in America have tried strenuously and with some measure of success to imbue the public with the idea
that we are simply finishing the other fellow’s fight. That America should have kept out of this quarrel. And that
we will pay out of all proportion for our participation in the war. None of these claims are true. The
State Department at Washington has shown conclusively that, even when she was protesting the warmest friendship for the United States,
Germany was plotting secretly to embroil us with Mexico, to interrupt our friendly relations with Japan, to estrange us from
Latin-America, and generally to make it so unpleasant for us at home that we would not dare resent any outrage
she might attempt upon our national rights and honor. And the President has explained very plainly, directly and convincingly why
he finally put aside all his immediate hopes of peace and went into the conflict.

The people of the allied European nations this year will contribute $15,000,000,000 to the support of the war. The American
public is asked to provide $20,000,000,000. On the face of it this appears to bear out the German claim. But
this represents for America not only the expense of supporting an army of 2,000,000 in the field but the initial
expense of raising and equipping that army. Moreover, in America 101,000,000 people have an annual income of $40,000,000,000. The annual
income of the 406,000,000 people of the allied European nations is only $20,000,000,000. Where the per capita income, the individual
income for every man, woman and child in the United States, is $387.

THE LIBERTY LOAN PRIMER.

Your Dollars Cannot Be Neutral.

You must be either for or against the soldier boys now marching to the trenches in France. You must be
either for or against your country. There is no half-way station, no betwixt or between. Your dollars cannot be neutral.

Uncle Sam needs your financial assistance. American success in this war depends upon our sending an army fully equipped, efficiently
trained, amply supplied with every requisite of the field. Every link in the military chain must be strong. We dare
not take chances. Germany's tremendous aggressiveness in this conflict has been made possible only by the highest efficiency in every
detail. The Germans were prepared at every point when they loosed the dogs of war and sent their armies hurlingThru
Belgium on the way to Paris. Let's not send to France the pride of America’s young manhood—the boys for whom
in any other emergency we would make any sacrifice, any whit less prepared. Take care of your loyalty to the
army and your loyalty to the country will take care of itself. There are numerous ways of serving the Kaiser.
And withholding your support from the boys we have sent, and will yet send to the front, the boys whom
the world at large is watching closely and expectantly, is by no means the least of these. You would bitterly
and instantly resent any other charge of disloyalty to your country. Probably you haven't considered this phase of the situation,
but calmly think it over for a moment and you will get the point. You cannot afford, even unconsciously, to
leave open this wee loophole for question. It will be far cheaper and more self-satisfying to buy a Liberty Bond.

SWEATERS TO BE SENT TO DAVIDSON VOLUNTEERS

The ladies of the Presbyterian Church met Monday afternoon for the purpose of formulating a plan for remembering the boys
at the various branches of the service with some kind of a present. Mrs. Brady was elected chairman, and it
was decided to send each man a woolen sweater as early as possible. As many of the fellows are in
camps without heating apparatus, these sweaters will no doubt serve on many a winter day as fitting reminders that those
at home are ever interested in the comfort and welfare of those in the camps. Nearer Christmas something else will
be sent to those from Davidson. It might be well to note that the following men of the local Presbyterian
church to whom these sweaters will be sent, are all volunteers, none of them waiting to be drafted: J. M.
Rumple, L. E. Johnston, E. R. Campbell, Harvey Helper, Harry Johnston, Lewis Johnston, Herbert Thompson, Douglas Brown, Houston Brown, Conrad
Shelton, Lewis Potts, Everett Booe, Fred Booe, Thornwell Smith, Dr. J. W. McConnell, Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, D. G. Worth,
Palmer Henderson, Harry Caldwell, Robert Harding, Fred Johnston, Robert D. Alexander.

This is how Davidson’s opponents that in England, Russia, France and Italy combined averages less than $75. The individual financial
burden in Europe is about four times what it will be in America. The hardship is immeasurably greater. Nor will
all of this $20,000,000,000 come from our annual income. Our savings account will supply most of it.

V. M. I., 14; Maryland Aggies, 1. Georgia Tech, 63; Washington and Lee, 0. Presbyterian College, 7; Wofford, 6. Furman,
20; Newberry College, 7. Navy, 61; Carlisle Indians, 0. Auburn, 7; Clemson, 0. A. and E., 19; Wake Forest, 6.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes.
Knapp Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
L. A. Elliott
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
Something good to eat ALL the time.
