The DAVIDSONIAN
February 27, 1918

BASEBALL TEAM HAS TRIP THRU GEORGIA

Manager Daffin hopes to be able to announce a complete baseball schedule next week. A Southern trip is being arranged and will be contracted for soon. Contracts have been closed for games in Atlanta with Georgia Tech on April 5 and 6. Games are expected with the University of Georgia, Clemson, University of South Carolina, Wofford, and Presbyterian College at Clinton. The University of Virginia game will be played in Charlotte and the A. & E. game will be there instead of at Gastonia, as previously announced. The team will meet Lenoir College in Hickory on Easter Monday. Lenoir will give us a return game here on the Hill. Trinity and V. P. I. also give us games here. The dates are, as yet, undecided. Other games may be arranged later. The manager is working hard to give the team the best schedule it has ever had. A Virginia trip had been planned and practically arranged, but several Virginia colleges cancelled and the trip had to be called off. The trip South is being arranged instead.

SCRUBS DEFEATED BY CLOSE SCORE

Huntersville High School defeated the Davidson “Scrubs” at Huntersville Friday night. The final score was 29-26. The Highs won the game in the first half, due to their good guarding and the work of Shields at center. In the last half, the “Scrubs” fought the Highs to a standstill but could not overcome a three-point lead. The floor work of Hall and the guarding of Schenck was high-class. McCachery in the last half managed to cage four field goals and did well on the defensive. Shields was the individual star for Huntersville. The line-up:

D. C. SCRUBS.       POSITION.       HUNTERSVILLE.
Potts (4)           Right Forward    Cochran (11)
R. D. Hall (8)      Left Forward     Monteith (4)
Crouch (2)          Center           Shields (12)
Schenck (2)         Right Guard      Ransom (2)
Chalmers (2)        Left Guard       Craven (0)

Substitutions: Potts for Chalmers, McCachern (8) for Potts. Referee, King.

VOLUNTEER CONVENTION WILL BE HELD AT ELON

The North Carolina Volunteer Union will hold its annual conference at Elon College, March 8-9-10. This union is an organization of all of the Volunteer Bands in the various colleges of the State. Each year a conference is held at some central point which is attended by representatives from the leading colleges of the State. A splendid program has been arranged, including such speakers as Dr. Ussher, of Turkey; Dr. Woods, from China; Mr. Murray, a secretary from New York, and many others. These conferences are inspirational and educational and every Christian should know more of the great work of missions for which our Saviour died. The Davidson delegation will leave Friday morning and will return Monday night. It is hoped that Davidson will have as many representatives as she has ever had. All those interested should see J. R. Woods at once so as to learn more about the conference and join those who are to have the privilege of attending the conference at Elon.

It will be of much interest for all to learn that Capt. J. W. MacConnell has been promoted to a Major.

SUCCESSFUL MEETING CONDUCTED BY DR. MILEY

(Continued from page 1)

Gripping and touching illustrations Dr. Miley showed that this gift should be especially valued by us because (1) of the Giver, (2) what it cost the Giver, including what it cost the Father and what it cost the Son. It cost the Father His Son and the Son His all; (3) Eternal life is especially dear because of its intrinsic value.

Sunday morning John 1:12-13 was chosen as a text: “As many as have received him to them gave He power to become the sons of God.” After we have received God according to the plan of redemption He justifies us and adopts us as sons of the great family. Comforting words were spoken concerning this family. It is a family which will have...a glorious reunion after which its ties will never be broken. The last meeting was held Sunday night, the text being I Peter 5:4: “When the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.” After explaining what a crown signifies, Dr. Miley spoke of four crowns that are promised the Christian who fights the good fight of faith: (1) A crown of victory, (2) a crown of righteousness, (3) a crown of eternal life, (4) a crown of glory. As a result of the meeting nine signified their acceptance of Christ as their Saviour. Two of these have already joined the local church. Four new members have been received on transfer and something over two hundred reconsecrated their lives anew. However, the results of the meeting cannot be measured by these numbers, for all who heard the discourses of Dr. Miley could not help feeling spiritually edified, with their faith increased, their hope strengthened and their determination to lead a better life made firmer.

PROGRAM ARRANGED FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING (Continued from page 1)
Years Ago and Now.” Changes in subjects are: F. A. Turner, “The Immigration Problem.” There will be no basketball game by the Varsity. However, efforts are being made to arrange a game between the Scrubs and some other team.

VOLUNTEER BAND LEADS JOINT MEETING
The regular joint meeting of the Christian Endeavor, Ministerial Band, and Volunteer Band, was led by H. T. Lilly, in Shearer Hall, last Sunday evening. The program was under the auspices of the Volunteer Band and the cause of missions was presented to a large audience of college men. The first speaker was G. A. Hudson, who developed the question, “Why Missions Appeal to Me as a Student.” He presented the following appeals: The need, the task, the partnership with God, the results, and the change wrought in a missionary’s character. The second speaker was C. W. Worth, who told of the missionary work along the three great lines: medical, educational and evangelistic. The last speaker was R. W. Cousar, whose subject was “The Common Sense of Missions.” He spoke very forcefully and clearly about the definite number of heathen whose salvation depends on each Christian. He showed the proportion of ministers and doctors in this country and in foreign fields, and powerfully deduced the argument why a man going into these professions should locate in the foreign fields. J. L. Fowle rendered a pleasing solo which was enjoyed by all.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St. - - Statesville, N. C.
When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.
17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES 17

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

Not “How cheap” but “How good” is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The old saying that “a man is judged by the candy he gives” holds good today same as always. Buy the best—don’t take the “just as good” kind. Nothing quite equals the famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively exclusive class to themselves. Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam does the rest.

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

WHO SAVES SERVES
BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
SPACE DONATED BY L. A. ELLIOTT