Red Cross News

On Monday night, March 11, there will be a moving picture entitled “How France Cares for Her Soldiers,” given in Shearer Hall. This will be preceded by a “Scene in a French Hospital,” produced by local talent. Proceeds go for the benefit of the Red Cross.

* * *

The report for the local chapter for the month of February is as follows: Attendance, 251; shipped to the headquarters in Charlotte the following: 190 scultetus bandages, 400 paper-back pads, 500 gauze dressings 18x12, 76 pillows, 5 sweaters, 6 pairs of socks, 10 comfort bags, 7 hot water bag covers, 50 pneumonia braces. (These for Camp Greene). The workroom was closed one week in February. This report shows much diligence and speed on the part of the workers, and it is an understood fact at headquarters that the work from the Davidson chapter is always first-grade.

* * *

DEMOCRACY OF THE RED CROSS.

Time was, though it was never true, when folks might say that the Red Cross represented only a certain class of the American public. That is, that it was representative of the bankers and moneyed interests and the so-called society types of our cities and towns. But what can be the attitude today, when twenty million of our American people have voluntarily enrolled under the banner of the American Red Cross? This great multitude of people represents more than 20 percent of our population. It represents the lawyer, the doctor, and all the other professions. It represents those in the business walks of life. Big business? Yes, and little business, too. It represents the mill workers, the clerk behind the counter, the fashionably dressed purchaser in sealskin furs. And now, with this great army of patriotic American citizens back of this greatest of all single movements in the world today, with a program rich in the variety of opportunities for service which it offers, the American Red Cross—your Red Cross, our Red Cross—will make advances absolutely inconceivable a short time ago. Let us bear in mind, there represents a tremendous responsibility. It is a responsibility of measuring up to the opportunity of playing a real part in this World’s War. While the Red Cross, through its vast number of volunteer workers in France and the countries of our Allies, is truly fighting the American fight, until our boys take their places in the trenches; while it is actually representing the Spirit of America until that time when our boys in khaki shall more clearly demonstrate the American Spirit, the great army of Red Cross members and workers at home must keep ever faithfully at it, in order to clearly demonstrate our ever willingness to support this great work. Membership is all right in its place, but service is more important still. Do something! There is a part for each to play! “Shun not the struggle. ’Tis God’s gift.” Face it.

LIBRARY NEWS.

The following books have just been received at the Library: “Short Speeches,” by Sulzer; “The Neighbor,” by Nathaniel S. Shaler; “Recollections,” by John Viscount Morley; “Persian Miniatures,” by Dwight; “A Short History of Science,” by Sedgwick-Tyler; “The Old Front Line,” by John Masefield.

* * *

FORCEFUL APPEAL MADE AT Y. M.C. A.

In an interesting and forceful appeal to Christians to live a powerful life in Christ’s service, Dr. W. W. Orr, pastor of the A. R. P. Tabernacle, Charlotte, addressed the regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday. His appeal was based, as he explained, on the fact that only the Holy Spirit that Christ promised to those who would await in the upper room was able to enable men to be truly great. Dr. Orr said that even though an individual might be fully equipped in matters of education, money, social standing, and the like, that he might never be powerful. He deplored the fact that theThe church is not taking advantage of this reserve power that is offered it, remarking that it seemed as if the statement that one could rout a thousand and two could put ten thousand to flight was literally backwards, for it took so many so-called Christians to catch one good live sinner. To gain real power from the Holy Spirit, Dr. Orr said that certain things were absolutely necessary. He pointed out the ignorance of so many concerning the Bible. Learn your Bible, he said, not about it but what it is and what is in it. Prayer was the next essential. Luther prayed, Calvin prayed, Billy Sunday prays, and so every man of power in God's service prays. Power is wrought through prayer. But power cannot flow through channels that are stopped up with sin and the next thing necessary was to rid ourselves of sin, thought sins, sins of imagination and desire. Fourth, we must make restitution. This is the hard thing to do but, said the speaker, it is an absolutely necessary thing. Zaccheus was converted, said Dr. Orr, between the limb and the ground. As evidence of this he cited the fact he was willing to make restitution to those he had wronged. Lastly, he said we must be willing to use the power that is given to us. Each one should pull his own load. Dr. Orr will long be remembered by those who heard him as an impressive speaker, full of his message of power.

RESULTS OF WAR IN TURKEY DISCUSSED

On account of Junior Speaking, there was no meeting of the Booklovers’ Club of the town last week. The meeting scheduled for that time was held last Tuesday at the residence of Mrs. J. S. Worth. The meeting was in charge of Mrs. W. W. Wood, and an interesting and instructive program was carried out. The subject for discussion was Changes Wrought in the Ottoman Empire During the War. Several speakers presented the many and vital changes that the “Sick Man of Europe” has undergone as a result of the world war, changes that will no doubt affect the future of the Turkish Empire to a considerable extent.

W.S.S.

Spalding Sweaters
Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors, and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
ATLANTA, GA,
74 N. BROAD ST.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

Don’t Forget to have that Suit DRY CLEANED for Junior Speaking
The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South's Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.

Clearance Sale
J. A. THAMES
All Men's and Boys’ Overcoats
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia
Oldest Largest Best.
A.S. Petts, College Agent, 26 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Co.

For Household Furnishings, etc., go to
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
We can supply your wants

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

Men Faculty Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place