2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
G. A. Byrd.......... Assignment Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr... Managing Editor

The Staff:
A. R. Craig
B. E. Shields
S. T. McCloy
F. G. Lilly
D. M. Chalmers
W. W. Dunlap, Jr.

Management:
T. C. Stone.......... Business Manager
T. R. Alexander and C. W. Foreman... Assistant Managers
E. A. Turner......... Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample......... Assistant Manager

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '19—R. C. Garth.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, A. B. Wilson, J. C. McCaskill.
Class of '21—W. P. Cumming, A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

THE THANKSGIVING GAME

In last week's issue of The Tiger, Clemson's weekly paper, appears the following:

“Davidson always put out a scrappy team and have gotten away with victories in the past two seasons; but before
this, however, it has been customary for the Tigers to down the N.C. Presbyterians. Davidson has defeated Washington and Lee
and the University of N. C. this season, which shows they have a good team. However, we also feel that
we have just a little better one, and on Thanksgiving the Tigers will give 'em a battle royal and we
feel sure come out victorious.”

We agree with The Tiger that there will be a battle royal tomorrow, but we do not agree with them
as to the result. We wish The Tiger to glance over the following scores and decide for itself whether “it
has been customary for the Tigers to down the N. C. Presbyterians” or not:

In the past twelve years Clemson has won two contests, Davidson four, and three have been tied. The scores for
the nine games are as follows:
1906—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1907—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 10.
1908—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 13.
1909—Clemson, 17; Davidson, 5.
1913—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 3.
1914—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 0.
1915—Clemson, 6; Davidson, 6.
1916—Clemson, 0; Davidson, 33.
1917—Clemson, 9; Davidson, 21.
1918—Clemson, ?; Davidson, ?.

A REMINDER

As The Davidsonian goes to press the campus has just been freed from the confinement. Whether the restrictions were to
be raised by tomorrow depended upon the conduct of the companies and the condition of the barracks. It’s up to
the battalion now to keep the campus straight, and that depends on each individual man.

For one man to receive punishment for his own delinquencies by undergoing confinement or doing detail work is one thing.
But for that man to bring down punishment on his squad, on his company, or on the whole battalion by
his lack of interest is quite another thing and just a little beyond the joking point. Digging a trench for
an afternoon, or being confined to the campus for several days is one thing. But having to stay on the
Hill and getting no Christmas furlough is something else. It’s time the battalion worked up some public opinion. Rap on
the man who carelessly throws a cigarette butt or scraps of paper on the campus. It spells ten, twenty, forty,
etc., days for you as well as for him. After such a shaking up as the battalion has received, any
man who so endangers the liberties of others is pretty low down and it’s a pity he can't “be dealt
with accordingly.” Think of others, if not for yourself.

MR. MOORE

If Mr. Moore hated to leave Davidson as much as Davidson hated to lose him—well, if it weren't for his
strong conviction that he is needed worse elsewhere, he would still be with us. He had so worked himself into
the hearts of Davidson men that it was with the sincerest feelings of regret that they heard of his intention
to leave. Davidson can feel herself fortunate to have kept him as long as she did. He might be called
an ideal Y. M. C. A. man, just the kind who can best gain the confidence of young men and
do them the most good. We hope that Davidson has made Mr. Moore's stay a pleasant one, and we wish
to express the gratitude to him for all he has done for us. The good will and best wishes of
the student body go with him, and he will be cordially welcomed back to the campus at any time he
may return to this part of the country. Let's give his successor the same support we've given him.

THE ANNUAL

Several of the twenty who “would be Seniors,” while talking over things in general, brought up the question of the
Annual. What about it this year? The very idea at first took their breath away. What about the heavy expense?
the lack of time? and other drawbacks? Now that the war's over it should be no more trouble to finance
it than in old times. It is true it is rather late to start such a task, but ofOf course,
it would be impossible to put out a book as large as is customary. But an annual only half normal
size, when published as a War Issue, with the knowledge that eighty percent of the class that put it out
have been in the service, will be of infinitely more honor to that class than the finest volume ever put
out by any peace-time class. There's no other one thing in college like an Annual to commemorate the doings, organizations,
and individuals of a student body. It would be a pity for the class of '19 to go out without
leaving such a volume as a record of its college career. Let's put out an Annual this year, if only
a small affair. Won't those who have had experience in such things help out where help is needed?

IN APPRECIATION.

To My Friends at Davidson:

I wish to take this opportunity to thank my friends at Davidson for the kind cooperation they have given me
in the two months I have been here as Army Y. M. C. A. secretary. From the officers and faculty
down to the last student, there has been nothing but the finest spirit shown to me and the work I
have been trying to do. It is with sincere regret that I leave Davidson. Seldom have I grown to love
a group of men as I have the ones here, and they will always hold a warm place in my
heart. The best I can wish for my successor is that he may have the same Christian spirit of cooperation
that has been shown to me. God grant that the Y. M. C. A. may prosper and be an effective
force in helping Davidson College mold Christian soldiers and citizens.

James A. G. Moore.
November 25, 1918.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
Hood Norton
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TAUGHT BY DR. CURRIE

It is needless to say that the student body is very glad to see Dr. Currie back on the campus
after seven weeks' absence. Dr. Currie was one of the crowd that had the "flu" and was very unfortunate to
have pneumonia set in afterward. Although Dr. Currie is still weak, he is able to be up and meet one
or two of his classes.

Last week the war department notified Davidson College that military law was dropped from the S. A. T. C. curriculum
at the opinion of the faculty. Dr. Currie, after consulting with some of the faculty, decided to drop his military
law and substitute international law, which will be more appropriate since the war has been stopped. The course will also
take up fully the present peace conference.

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

ORDER FOR MEN TO O. T. C. RESCINDED

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.

As the companies were seated for the usual Thursday morning lecture by Lieutenant Sullivan, we were interrupted by the call
from headquarters for all the men previously named for the Officers' Training Camps. They retired, cheered by the entire body
assembled. But when they reached headquarters, it was announced that the call had been canceled on account of the signing
of the armistice by Germany. The announcement came as a disappointment to some, and were it not for the fact
that peace has come, it would have been a distinct disappointment to all of them. The student body is most
fortunate to be allowed to retain such young men as have proved themselves worthy of the selection. And it practically
means the life of the football team to retain Spann, Crouch, and George Robson. Let's all give fifteen rahs for
the O. T. C. boys.

For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT

Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events.

ROOKIE ANSWERS TO A MILITARY QUIZ

Question: Explain Forward March.
Answer: Step off 30 inches with the right foot, then put the right foot forward 30 inches and continue in
this manner.

Question: Explain Halt.
Answer: You halt with one foot, bring up the other foot by the other foot, and step off with the
other foot first.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are
Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH CLASS SHOES?
A Complete Line of Military Shoes
Gilmer - Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Jetton Drug Co.
