6 The DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1918

DAVIDSON DEFEATED BY CLEMSON
(Continued from page 1)

Armstrong and Reams were their principal ground gainers. The game in detail follows:

FIRST QUARTER.
Davidson kicks to Clemson. Odell received, gaining 10 yards. Clemson fumbles on first play, McAllister recovering. Davidson fumbles, losing 20 yards. Davidson kicks to Clemson. Clemson held for downs, kicks to Davidson, Spann receives, running up 20 yards. Davidson held for downs, ball goes over, Clemson kicks to Spann, who fumbles, Clemson recovering. Davidson offside, penalized 10 yards. Clemson gains good on end runs, brings ball to Davidson's two-yard line, and fumbles (here is the unseen fumble, referee gives ball to Clemson). Clemson's ball, second down, two yards to go. Touchdown, Clemson kicks goal. Score: 7-0. Davidson kicks to Clemson. Clemson held for downs. Clemson kicks; Spann receives.

SECOND QUARTER.
Johnson makes right end good for 18 yards. Davidson held for downs. Clemson begins overhead attack, unsuccessful, held for downs. Clemson kicks to Davidson, Davidson kicks to Clemson. Clemson begins to shift play, gains little. Clemson kicks to Davidson. Davidson kicks out of territory.

THIRD QUARTER.
Davidson kicks to Clemson. Allison bucked center for short gains. Clemson kicks, Spann receives, Massey gains 10 yards, Johnson gains 11 yards. Davidson penalized 10 yards. Davidson kicks to Clemson. Clemson unable to gain, kicks to Spann, who runs back 15 yards. Davidson's forward pass unsuccessful. Spann and Johnson gain 10 yards on running pass play. Fake fails. Davidson carries ball to Clemson's five-yard line, held for downs, ball goes over. Clemson kicks out of danger. First and 10 yards to go, Spann gains 2 yards over center. Second and 8 yards to go, Massey 0. Third and 8 yards to go, pass didn't work. Fourth, Davidson kicks to Clemson.

FOURTH QUARTER.
Clemson fumbles on 20-yard line, Davidson recovering. Davidson held for downs, kicks to Clemson. Clemson unable to gain, kicks back. Spann receives, recovering 20 yards. Fake play fails. Held for downs, kicks to Clemson. Clemson’s ball, first and 10 to go. Clemson penalized holding. Second and 20 to go. Clemson kicks to Davidson. Johnson gains 15 through right tackle. Game over. Ball in Davidson's possession middle of field. Score: Clemson, 7; Davidson, 0.

Line-up:
“D” Position. “C”
White..........LE........Schenck
McMaster.......LT........Lightsey, Capt.
Brady..........LG........Geddis
Crouch, Capt....C.........Padget
Robson.........RG........McKown
Fischel........RT........Hanmett
Douglass.......RE........Sweetenberg
Spann..........QB........Frew
McAllister.....LHB.......Armstrong
Johnson........RHB.......Odell
Massey.........FB........Allison

Substitutes: Davidson, McFadden for McAllister; Miley for White. Clemson, Randal for McKown; Reams for Odell.

Question: What is the cadence of quick time? Of double time?
Answer: Cadence of quick time is 1, 2, 3, 4. Cadence of double time is twice as fast as quick time.

Question: What is meant by Trajectory?
Answer: Trajectory is when the bullet meanders from its course.

BOB MILES, EX-11, IS NEW “Y” SECRETARY
(Continued from page 1)

has finished the theological course a year ago last May. Soon afterwards Mr. Miles enlisted in the Army Y. M. C. A. work, and was stationed at Camp Jackson. Then he was sent across, and for seven months he was with the boys “over there.” He was returned to this country in the early fall. Mr. Miles, in describing the joy he felt when he heard he was to be sent back to Davidson, said, “I could hardly hold myself.” As he walked over the campus once more on Tuesday afternoon he remarked to one of the professors, “You know these eight years seem like yesterday now.” Davidson has thus received back a man of true Davidson mold, and once more the “Old College” prides herself on her alumni.

Mr. Miles has brought Mrs. Miles with him, and they will be “permanently” located here till commencement. The rooms in the gymnasium will continue to be used, and Mr. Miles requests that the students use him and the “Y” whenever desired. The one way in which Davidson students can express their appreciation of the Y. M. C. A. and Mr. Miles is through the hearty co-operation and backing of every man. Mr. Rutland, who cameto serve as acting secretary from Mr. Moore's departure in late November until a permanent secretary should be sent, has left to resume the theological course at Emory University. During the two weeks Mr. Rutland was with Davidson, he made a large number of friends, and the best wishes of all go with him as he leaves.

COLLEGE TO CONTINUE AS IN ANTE-BELLUM DAYS
(Continued from page 1)

...for a full fall term's work toward graduation and diploma if they stay and pass examinations. No tuition, dormitory fees, or any other charge whatsoever will be made by the college for the remainder of the fall term. Men will, of course, pay their board and have a few minor expenses. So why not, when mustered out, men, stay just two weeks longer and during those two weeks buckle down to conscientious study and pass this work and get credit? Look ahead; it will help you in the end. If other men who are in the country's service, when mustered out, desire to return or come to Davidson, they may have this fall term’s credit with the S. A. T. C. men, provided they enroll on or before next January 7th. Another splendid offer.

Recitations will continue until December 17th. Examinations will start Monday, the 16th, and continue until the afternoon of the 18th. They will be short, possibly two hours each, three or four a day. The holidays will be longer than ever before, lasting from the 18th to the 7th of January, exactly three weeks. Men will be allowed to keep their uniforms and shoes, just issued, for a period of four months. At the end of that time, they will be sent to the Depot Quartermaster. Tuesday morning, one of the shirts issued and the rifles were turned in; after which every man was examined physically, to ascertain whether any treatment for ailments received while in the service was necessary. At 1 o'clock, the men signed their discharge papers preparatory to being mustered out. As the Davidsonian is going to press, important papers, records, and certificates are rapidly being completed, and by the time the Davidsonian is read, the Davidson unit of the S. A. T. C. will most probably be a remembrance of the past.

Prof: With what does the “wiggler” breathe?
Bloody Mary: With its mouth.
Prof: No, the breathing tube is at the opposite end. What is it?

ALL IN ONE HOUR.
Prof. Clayberg: What is the first stage in the development of a fly?
General Hall: I know that. Let me recite.
Bloody Mary: It’s tail, sir.
Prof: All right, Mr. Hall, you may recite.
General: The first stage is the adolescence period.
Prof: What happens to the “wigglers” if fish are present in the pool with them?
Rifle Rest Clark: They would “get jet,” sir.

Germany Brown's Cafe Does Not Keep Us From Delivering THE BEST FRESH MEAT
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

STUDE
HE didn't sell out-
HE is right here with the best line of Military Goods
O. D. Wool Uniforms... ... $25 to $50
O. D. Moleskin Uniforms........ $15
O. D. Short Overcoats. ..$10 to $19.50
O. D. Long Overcoats. . .$27.50 to $50
Regulation Hats........ $2.50 to $6.00
Regulation Caps. .........$2 to $3.50
Leather Puttees....... $3.98 to $16.50
Regulation Officers’ Shoes... . . $10

L. A. ELLIOT
COLLEGE JEWELRY
WRIST WATCHES
ALARM CLOCKS
W. M. Torrence, Jeweler
FULL STOCK OF MILITARY ACCESSORIES

Belk Bros.
“SELL IT FOR LESS”
Address MAIL ORDER DEPT. DESK NO. 1
CHARLOTTE, - - - N.C.

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. . . Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. . . We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

Exclusive Agents for DUNLAP HATS and Hirsh Wickwire & Co.’s FINEST of Clothing
Ready-to-Wear Military Uniforms and Accessories
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street - - CHARLOTTE, N. C.