The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.........- Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
I. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional Reports for this issue:
C. K. Brown, D. L. Mahood, A. M. Mitchell, J. M. Walton, and R. R. Craig.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

THE LAZY COLLEGE MAN.
If the ultimate analysis were made, one would find that college men are in college for a heterogeneous number of reasons. Some for fun, some for athletics, literary development, some because “papa sends,” some for privileges of social development, and some for the broadening and training of the mind, together with those concomitants, physical, social, and other development. Some are content to carry all they can away from college. By this is meant that a college student may be content to drain the sources of knowledge and they themselves leave no stamp of their own upon their Alma Mater. Among this group are found men from all those who entered for various reasons. He who is here for fun will probably not try to increase the fun for his contemporary or his successor. His fun is all he is looking for. There are some of those who take a big part in athletics who play as an end per se—that part that is peculiar for himself—and not as a means of developing college spirit, ideals, and with no conception of constructive play for furthering the interest of the college. There are some from among the scholars who are satisfied to progress like the amoeba—by flowing out of himself into himself. He does not strive to enhance student honor nor student organizations. Such a person may be termed lazy. He is a parasite. He is almost a plant in that he conserves rather than distributes intellectual energy, if we may draw the analogy. This is a smooth, calm life—a life with difficulties hence without progress. ‘Men of words and not of deeds are like a garden full of weeds. Biologists, sociologists, and psychologists unite in saying that man is a community product—a creature of environment. Higher stages of evolution are attained by a betterment of the environment. These so-called lazy creatures do not try to better the environment. They are content to let men and things stay in the same old way. Dr. Sentelle beautifully illustrates selfishness in the flower, which grows and takes in the light without throwing off any fragrance and beauty. Such a flower is sordid and ugly. On the other hand, there is a little flower which, though growing in the mud, emits a sweet perfume and makes its environment attractive. Such a flower we love. Such a student the college world adores. A college student should never be content to glide through. He should take an active interest in those outside things in which he is most interested. He should do some constructive thinking and upon that phase or those phases in which he is interested he should leave his impress. The organization to which he is affiliated can be given a higher standard and can be made of more force and usefulness. Every student should turn something in his hands and leave an impact of his constructive ability upon it. College life could be made richer should it retain something indelible of the protagonist role from every student. A great educator has said, “The true measure of a man's greatness and culture is not the institutions from which he was graduated or the books which he has read, but the things which he has accomplished for the uplifting of humanity and the influence which the force and

THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 20, 1918

PREPARING FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Germany does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh MeatPower of his personality and character have exercised upon his fellowmen.” Seniors, see what you have done. Throw yourself in the retrospective frame of mind. Juniors, Sophs, and Fresh, keep this idea ahead of you.

THE WEEK OF PRAYER.

This is the week of prayer for schools and colleges. Indeed we are fortunate in having a series of services conducted by Dr. W. H. Miley. He is a big man of big dimensions in many ways. He is a big man at the head of a big department in a big church. To miss hearing him is to miss a treat. Everyone likes experiences and illustrations. Dr. Miley has such a wonderful storehouse of them that you wonder if it will ever give out. Profit yourself by attending every service.

Juniors! It isn’t far off. P. B. Price once editorially said: “Everybody likes a Freshman who speaks when he passes.”

A SUGGESTION.

Have you ever stopped to think what kind of an appearance our student body, taken as a whole, would make were we suddenly called together for a review or inspection by a person of note? I say person of note because I believe it will help impress upon us the seriousness of such a sudden review since student nature is so disposed to court the favor of persons of note. Davidson is a democratic college—in fact one of the most democratic institutions to be found. The student body's relationships are more like those of a large family; I dare say eighty per cent of us know and are so well known by each other—that is, known to such an extent that we would feel at liberty to call upon each other for an act of service as though we were related by consanguinity. This democratic spirit has a tendency to decrease self-pride, hence we have become careless in our dress as well as in our manner, feeling that since we know and are known so well by our confreres we need not take much thought of our personal appearance. One of our former professors—a man who had come into contact with the college and university student bodies of the South—made the statement last year that our student body made the poorest appearance of any he had seen. Are we going to permit such criticism to continue?

I have attributed our increased carelessness in dress this year to the introduction of such poor uniforms into our military drill. If my attribution is correct we are not altogether to blame for such carelessness (for these were forced upon us) but this does not relieve us of the responsibility of the use of will-power to improve our appearance in spite of such imposed opposition. We need not be a Beau Brummel or dress à l'Anglaise to improve the appearance of our student body. All we need is for each of us to take a deeper interest in his personal appearance and the whole appearance of the student body will gradually be improved.

J. B. D.

First Class Vaudeville!

YOUR VISITORS PRESENT AT BOOK CLUB MEETING

The Book Lovers’ Club met last week at the home of Miss Mamie Withers. Mrs. J. R. Withers and Miss Withers being the hostesses of the afternoon. Because of the illness of Mrs. Douglas, Miss Shaw read several descriptions of “Constantinople of Today.” Mrs. Price, of West Virginia, and Miss Louise Sloan, were visitors. A delicious salad course was served at the close of the hour.

When you pay a social debt with Wiar’s Chocolates you get large returns in appreciation. Do you owe someone a box now?

White Drug Co.

VALENTINE SUPPER GIVEN BY KAPPA ALPHAS

Spalding Sweaters

Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
ATLANTA, GA.

THE COMMISSARY

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

Last Thursday evening the members of the local chapter of the Kappa Alpha fraternity gave a Valentine supper in honor of a number of young ladies from Charlotte. The guests were Misses Elizabeth Dowd, Rogers Gibbon, Mildred Finlayson, Bessie Durham, Katherine Gilmer, and Bessie Alexander. Mrs. W. F. Dowd, Jr., chaperoned the party.

C. W. Robson, '21, who has been in a very critical condition for some weeks from pneumonia, is recovering rapidly. He will probably leave the hospital this week.