& The DAVIDSONIAN March 13, 1918

REVIEW OF PAST
(Continued from page 1)

a bewildering assortment of long shots and racked up 20 points. The floor work of King fitted well in with Hengeveld and the defensive work of the entire team gave the Wildcats their last game 37-22. Davidson has seen Hengeveld and King in their last 'Varsity game for the Red and Black. Diplomas will cost Davidson her two best. Though everyone is sorry to lose them, we are lucky in having such good men to fill their vacant berths. Hall and Davenport, Schenck, Alexander, and Romefelt all showed up well during the season, and practically all of them are sure of the much-coveted "D" next year. New material should be found in next year’s Freshman class, and with our remaining 'Varsity men and our reserves, Davidson is sure to have a team in 1919 worthy of the Red and Black colors.

BASEBALL TEAM IS
(Continued from page 1)

valuable to his successor at the initial sack. On the mound, Hengeveld will bear the brunt of the work. Miley, Mebane, and A. Currie are working out well. The receiving end of the battery is going to be a hard position to fill, but Sullivan, Burns, and Johnson are going good. R. R. Clark, McArn, and Sutton are all in the race for the first baseman’s job and the decision will be close. The positions at short and second will be filled from a list containing the names of King, Boswell, Joe Miller, Ratchford, and Sample, with a preference towards the first two. Bob Black is out for the position at third left vacant by his brother, Jack, but Cassell is also a strong contender. Out of a long list of men, a good outfield is assured. Flowers is to be counted upon, while Jones, Fetzer, Spann, and Richardson look like Ty Cobb in action. Captain Hengeveld, with a team picked from the material available, may be counted upon to give every team in the state a run for its money, and may surprise some of our college friends in Georgia.

EXCELLENT PROGRAM
(Continued from page 1)

the Allies were putting forth their most strenuous efforts, but never suspected that it was anything as violent as the efforts of our dancing friends. It has always seemed strange that Japan has not taken an active part in the war, and if she could only do as well as Salaman Samdoo, the Japanese wrestler, Japan would indeed be an excellent ally. It has been many years since as much dust has been raised in Shearer Hall as was raised by him. Mr. Angle in the role of the minister was good, especially in view of the fact that he was taking an unaccustomed part. Mr. Clark displayed great bravery in the face of overwhelming odds, and should be decorated with the O. G. E.—Order of the Goo-Goo Eyes. The singing of Melba was the feature of the evening, she deriving her name from the fact that she sang pell-mell, and caused all the audience to ejaculate Bah! Mr. Dishong featured with his heavenly smile that sometimes suffused his face with the ethereal glow of bliss. At other times he was an excellent representative of that fortunate profession in regard to whom it is said: the sun shines on their successes, and the earth hides their failures. Much credit should go to Monsieur Von Hindenburg Shaw for the capable manner in which he conducted the exercises. After seeing the Red Cross performance, an humble theory is offered as to why the war is lasting so long. And can they be blamed for it? Anyone would make it last longer if war is of the kind shown that night. All this stuff about the Russian situation is just camouflage.

If you are one of those mortals who didn’t spend your quarter, you have probably found by this time that this is about the Red Cross Benefit given in Shearer Hall on the Main Street of Davidson, N. C., on the night of March 11, in the year of Our Lord the 1918th, and in the year of the college the 82nd. If you were not there, you ought to have been. Following the performance of the above-described wonders came a motion picture showing the troops in France, and presenting in vivid fashion the work that the Red Cross is doing in caring for the wounded. But the success of the whole performance is due to the young ladies of the town, and to Misses Finleyson, Gibbons, Shelton, and Durham, of Charlotte. For the kindness of these young ladies intaking part in the program, the whole student body is grateful. Other young ladies who showed us that war has her beauties no less than peace, were: Misses Miley, Steele, Baskerville, and Worth.

CAMP LIFE DESCRIBED
(Continued from page 1)

day by having five boxing bouts in the forenoon and in the afternoon we had a memorable rabbit hunt. We let everybody go who wanted to and about three hundred of us wanted to. We knew there were rabbits by the dozens in a thicket in a low swampy marsh near here, so to this place we went. The men spread out, deploying at about one-yard intervals until the swamp was surrounded by men. At the signal from a whistle, we all started forward, each man going straight forward from his position. All of us were armed with sticks and clubs. The rabbits soon began to appear and the excitement began. Often the rabbits got away and some soldier got hit over the head by mistake but nobody was hurt and such little incidents only added to the excitement. One of the doctors made a dive (into a mud hole) that would make George Mackey green with envy, but he got the rabbit.

The 18th company came back in time for Retreat with seven rabbits to show for their afternoon. The Mess Sergeant said it was as hopeless to try to keep that bunch of men supplied with hot biscuits as to dig a canal from here to the ocean with a spoon. Life in camp isn't all made up of boxing and rabbit hunts by any means, however.

The men drill every day and there are schools for both commissioned officers and non-coms. We have to study every night. We have examinations to look forward to just as you fellows have except that you have the chance to take re-examinations when you flunk, and we rarely do. I think most officers and enlisted men find the Army life different and harder than they had expected to, but with true American adaptability, they have gotten interested in it and are putting might and main into the work with splendid results. Dr. Smith used to tell us in chapel, “If you want to make a success of your work get interested in it,” and the truth of his statement is proved to me over and over every day. The average American can do anything he is interested in, and if he will make himself get interested in the thing he has to do, his work can’t help being a great success. Those of us here followed the football and basketball seasons with the keenest interest and we expect to follow the baseball season with the same satisfaction. I am glad things are in as good shape as they seem to be and remember that there is no more loyal Alumnus anywhere than

Your friend,
James C. Harper.

11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St.
Statesville, N. C.

When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

Get It At

THE SLAU COED

SCHOL PHONES 441-2
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

THE FLORIST, Inc.
8 N. TRYON ST.

WHO SAVES SERVES
BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS

SPACE DONATED BY L. A. ELLIOTT