The Davidsonian, April 10, 1918

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE

Question for debate Saturday night, April 13: Resolved, "That the government should control the coal mines of the United States
for the duration of the war."

Philanthropic:
- Affirmative: Har and T. C. Stone
- Negative: L. L. Wilson and McKeithen
- Oration: J. W. McAlister
- Declamation: Morrison
- Extemporaneous—Negative: Pharr
- Affirmative: Q. N. Huneycutt

There will be no program in the Eumenean Society next Saturday night on account of the election of officers for
the fall term next year. The men appearing on the program for that date will come off on April 20.

MEETING SATURDAY, APRIL 6

In its regular meeting last Saturday night, the Philanthropic Society debated the question, "Resolved, That Japan should intervene in Siberia."
The affirmative was represented by Storey and F. L. Knight. They advanced many arguments to show that the present status
of international affairs makes it necessary that some nation should intervene in Siberia, and that Japan is the logical nation
to do this. The negative, on the other hand, which was represented by Worth and Neel, contended that such a
step was wrong in principle, not expedient, and would not accomplish the end for which it was intended. The judges
decided 2 to 1 in favor of the negative.

L. H. Spence gave some interesting facts on Fresh History in his declamation on Feudalism, while J. I. Fowle proclaimed
his membership in the Phi Society by speaking on "Why I am Proud of North Carolina." Even Synod did not
surpass in the effectiveness of its oratory, or the utter irrelevance of its logic, the debate that was given extemporaneously
on the subject, "Resolved, That Davidson should become a co-educational institution." Stogner dilated on the arguments of the affirmative, while
McClure presented the reason for the negative. The judges decided in favor of the negative.

The subject for debate last Saturday night in the Eu Society was, "Resolved, That Japan should intervene in Siberia." The
affirmative was upheld by Brand, Cumming, and Thomas, who advanced the following arguments: (1) Japan is the proper nation to
intervene; (2) it will be a great help to the cause of the allies; (3) the Germans are now in
charge of the towns along the Trans-Siberian railroad; and (4) it is necessary. J. B. Woods, Frierson, and L. A.
Woods, defending the negative, contended: (1) It is impracticable; (2) Russia has not asked for aid; (3) it is detrimental
to the cause of the allies; (4) it will conflict with Wilson's policy of non-intervention; (5) it will give Japan
a chance to "grab" part of Siberia; and (6) there is no danger of a German invasion. The judges decided
in favor of the affirmative; the house also decided in favor of the affirmative. The debate was full of pep
and very interesting, as three of the debaters were from oriental countries.

After the debate, Heiser and Harrell gave declamations. Heiser gave a selection from Webster's Bunker Hill Oration; Harrell gave a
selection from Garfield’s Arlington Oration. The society voted to have a service flag with a star for each man who
has been a member of the society for at least six months and is...Now in military service. There will be
no regular program next Saturday as it is the regular time for the election of officers. Those on the program
for next Saturday will come off on the following Saturday night.

Brockmann
MECKLENBURG
BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Armour Bros Co.
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Just received a new line of Panamas and Sailors. Also a new line of low-cut Regal Shoes.

V. Wallace & Sons
We carry a complete line of Men’s and Boys’ Clothing: Made in the best makes at prices to suit all.
We invite you to inspect the famous KUPPENHEIMER CLOTHES, known the world over. New showing of Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts,
and Interwoven Hose. Pay cash and save money.

V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, and Greensboro

White Drug

THE McCALLIE SCHOOL FOR BOYS
On Battlefield of Missionary Ridge, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Founded by REV. T. H. McCALLIE, D.D.

POINTS OF EMPHASIS
1. A Christian home with firm discipline.
2. Men teachers of ability and character.
3. Individual attention to pupils.
4. Average class not over ten.
5. Methods of study taught.
6. Prepares for best colleges.
7. Bible read and taught in the school.
8. Honor System works here.
9. Beautiful location among mountains.
10. Nearly 1,000 feet above sea.
11. Forty acres in country, with lake.
12. Careful protection against fire.
13. Use of tobacco not allowed.
14. Military Department.
15. Students in Headmaster’s home.
16. Excellent fare and good water.

FOR ATTRACTIVE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE APPLY
S. J. McCALLIE, M.A. Headmaster
J.P. McCALLIE, M.A., Ph.D., Univ. of Va.

Laundry! Shoe Repairing!
When Pleased Tell Others
When Dissatisfied Tell Me
M. E. Edwards, 22 Chambers

Presbyterian Theological Seminary
Louisville, Kentucky
Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life
for students.
Write the President
Charles R. Hemphill

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING
Phone 69-J

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

If it’s FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE, or BONDS that you want, see the Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200
Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See H. L. WASHAM

Z.K. JUSTICE
DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

The kind that imparts a distinctive appearance to business stationery. Let us do your printing, engraving, etc., and thereby do
our bit toward putting your Letter Heads, Bill Heads, Envelopes, Cards, etc., in condition to attract business.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina
“EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE”

O. J. Thies, Jr., Davidson Representative
