6 The DAVIDSONIAN March 27, 1918

DR. SHEARER ENJOYING FINE HEALTH
As Vice-President of College and Professor of Senior Bible he serves His Master.

The many friends of Dr. J. B. Shearer will be glad to know that he has enjoyed a fine year.
His health has been exceptionally good as compared with the preceding years. He is now vice-president of the college and
is professor of Senior Bible. His classroom is in his home, facing Shearer Hall, which stands as a monument to
the memory of Mrs. Shearer.

Dr. Shearer's position in the college world is unique. Before his agitation of the study of the Bible, courses in
Bible were given in practically no colleges. He introduced it at S. P. U. It was a success. Later he
came to Davidson. With his coming came the Bible courses which are so profitable today. Other colleges and universities became
attached to this idea and similar courses were introduced. As Poe standardized the short story, so did Dr. Shearer standardize
and popularize the study of Bible in the college curriculum. This great movement is attributable to our venerable professor. As
a theologian he is recognized as a safe and sane one. He has made a wonderful contribution in his Scriptural
interpretation.

Not only has Davidson College profited by these contributions, but it is he who laid the broad and liberal foundations
of the policy of the college which were assumed by President H. Louis Smith. His work in this regard was
broadening the college curriculum. All Dr. Smith had to do was to advertise the college and the student body was
greatly increased in numbers. Davidson College and the college world together with humanity has a great servant in Dr. Shearer.

DAVIDSON RESIDENCE DESTROYED BY FIRE

Great blazes! Holy smoke! Fire! After many “wolf” alarms the fire really came and found many complacently calling “Fire,” a
signal announcing the approach of lady visitors on the Hill, but a single look in the direction of the Graded
School dispelled this idea and caused a graver one. A short distance below the school, the home of Mr. Harvey
Gibson caught fire a few minutes after 6 o’clock in the afternoon, from a defective flue. So rapid was its
progress that scarcely anything was saved, in fact nothing, except a few articles of furniture. Friends kindly took care of
the family and are doing what they can to make them comfortable. The house was owned by Mr. J. Lee
Sloan, and it is understood that the loss was covered by insurance. The only thing that saved the neighboring houses
was the direction of the wind, and even then the sparks, threatening the houses across the street, required the faithful
efforts of the efficient bucket brigade and the Pyrene demonstrator, who happened to be on the scene, to save them.

FORUM

One of our contemporaries—the University “Tar-Heel”—states that the University is considering the organization of a Varsity Horseshoe Pitching Team. They
are thinking of challenging Davidson, U. of Virginia, Princeton, and Yale. As in every other form of athletics, Davidson can
be counted on to lead the way. Practice is pretty general all over the campus. The Chambers Champions (South Wing)
are ready to challenge the Gallant Gallopers from Georgia and the Winsome Winners from Watts. The Rumple Roustabouts have not
entered the league as yet. For a Varsity team we would pick the following men: Right front shoe, Kennedy; left
front shoe, I. C. McAskill; right rear shoe, H. W. Davenport; left rear shoe, Fawlkes; substitute, G. McDonald. Carolina would
find this team hard to beat.

A. BLACK-SMITH.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS (Continued on page 6)was able to cope with unfriendly aliens, making it unnecessary to intern four millions of
them. He said that as it was against international law to make aliens work against their country, it was productive
labor and put them where they could be of no service. After the rebuttal and before the decision, Dr. Martin
made a short talk, explaining that while Davidson is the Presbyterian college of this State, Lafayette is the same for
Pennsylvania. He wanted to adopt the policy of the Davidson debaters and “intern” the Pennsylvanians and keep them in the
South. The decision of the judges was four to in favor of Davidson.

Another feature of the debate, about which too much cannot be said, was the splendid work of the Davidson Orchestra.
The orchestra came in mighty handy and prevented what might have been an awkward delay because of the lateness of
the train on which the Lafayette speakers came. During the intermission, the audience was entertained by the orchestra with patriotic
music.

ANNUAL MATERIAL
(Continued from page 1)

A poem on “Camouflage” (we just had to write it); a page showing a few of the “college pleasures”; a
“Department of Advice” to some of our students; a poem on the “pleasures” of Chambers; also one on the “pleasures”
of drill, etc. Maybe you think they don't know that good joke on you, but you are mistaken, for it
will be in the Calendar if it is not in the remainder of the Annual. This year the man who
has no “honorable mention” should worry, because, verily, he is left out in the cold. If you want to see
yourself like others see you, be sure to get an Annual to have that opportunity.

One fact that gratifies the staff is the large number of students contributing drawings, literary material, and photographs to the
Annual, for besides showing student interest in the book, it makes it truly a book of the students themselves. The
Annual will probably be out by the first of May, and then you will see for yourself that what has
been said is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

Dr. W. J. Martin and Dr. C. M. Richards attended Synod in Greensboro on last Thursday and Friday. Dr. Martin
remained over to hear the debate between Davidson and Lafayette College.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St., Statesville, N. C.
When you want the best values, call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a
big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.
17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

The Crowell Clothing Co.
Will pay your railroad fare to Statesville and return on all purchases of $25.00.
Hart, Schaffner & Marx and Society Brand Clothes ARE BEST
Talk this over with J. B. DAFFIN
Everything to Wear
Men’s Novelty Wear
A Complete Line of Spring Haberdashery

FOR SALE
