4 NOTICE TO WRITERS OF DAVIDSONIAN ARTICLES

Below are given some of the most important instructions and suggestions for writing articles for The Davidsonian. It is hoped that these will be preserved by all reporters and others who are called upon from time to time to write special articles for the paper. By following these suggestions one can gain considerable experience in newspaper writing, and also relieve the editors of considerable unnecessary work.

1. Typewrite all articles, if possible.
2. Write legibly and leave a good space between each line.
3. Remember that one article on time is worth ten behind time.
4. Leave a wide margin at the top of the paper so that headlines may be put in by the managing editor. Don’t try to headline your article.

THINGS TO BE AVOIDED.

5. Don’t use “we” in an article. That is the editor’s privilege.
6. Don't fail to put an alumnus’ year of graduation when you mention one. Thus: A. B. Brown, ‘07. Or if he was not graduated with the class of which he was a member, thus: John Jones, ex-'11. Don’t use parentheses, only commas.
7. Don’t use long, involved sentences. In newspaper writing one short, concise clear sentence is worth three long ones.
8. Don’t forget to begin your article with the most important incident or the most important phase of the article that you are writing.
9. Don’t put a person’s initials after his name, but J. F. Jones, not Jones, J. F.
10. Don’t use abbreviations, but write out all words.
11. Don’t forget that you are a reporter, that this means business, and that you are expected to “have a nose” for news all of the time, and to turn in any items that you find to the Assignment Editor, so that he can have them covered.
12. Don't fail to read when you have a chance, some of the library books on journalism.
13. Don’t forget that good, punctual, earnest work will put you on The Davidsonian staff.

BOOKS ON NEWSPAPER WORK.

“Practical Journalism” — (1) The Plan of a News Story, pages 59-72; (2) A Chapter on Errors, pages 164-183.
“Making a Newspaper” — (1) How the Reporters Work, pages 153-188; (2) Writing a Newspaper Story, pages 189-218.
“Making a Journalist” — (1) “Get What You Are Sent For,” pages 26-38.
“Newspaper Writing and Editing” — (1) News and News Values, page 17; (2) Structure and Style in News Stories, page 60; (3) Speeches and Interviews, page 126; (4) Special News, page 161; (5) Editing Copy, page 255.

Hand in your article to the editor whose name is on your assignment sheet. If you cannot cover an article, let the assignment editor know at once, so another man may be put on it.

PROGRESS IS BEING MADE BY COMPANIES AT DRILL

General Foch, could he have taken a few hours from European affairs and visited the drill field here last week, would have seen a sight that would have interested and puzzled even him, seasoned strategist that he is. Squad after squad from the different companies of the S. A. T. C. solemnly lined up at one end of the football field and as solemnly walked off to the opposite end, walking with a glassy stare and mechanical step. But, no, gentle reader, they were not sleepwalkers, just soldiers pacing off the hundred yards to use as a standard for determining estimated distances. Then Lieut. Sullivan pointed out several objects and estimations were made. In some cases very good results were secured. The correct estimating of distance is a necessary quality in good shots and the fellows are urged to practice the habit of estimating and pacing distances.

In close order drilling the progress has been very good. In view of the fact that there has been but about three weeks of drill, the companies are showing up unusually well. All the squad movements and practically all the company movements are executed daily. The lack of guns has, of course, handicapped the bayonet drill, or killing, as it should be termed. Nevertheless, the company commanders have explained the principal movements and with the arrival of guns immediate action may be begun. So far there seems to be little to choose between the four companies. Company A, however, has the distinction of having in its ranks the highest-ranking officer, General Hall.

Not forgetful of the fact that Davidson is a training school for officers, each company commander has been giving two lectures weekly, based on Moss’ Military Manual and the Infantry Drill Regulations.

LT. EVERETT BOOE, '12, RETURNS FROM FRANCE

Lieut. Everett Booe, '12, after a short visit at his home here in Davidson, left the first of this week for Camp Gordon. Many of the townspeople and the students remember Everett Booe as the star athlete and captain of the football team. Lieutenant Booe received his commission as second lieutenant a year ago at Fort Oglethorpe, and went to France last May. He was in active service from May until the 1st of October, and received his first lieutenant’s commission the last of August. During his period of active service, Lieutenant Booe says that he fought in the open, and was not in the trenches at all. In spite of this, he escaped without a wound. During the last of September, Lieutenant Booe received ordersto report back to the United States, and started back the first of this month. He will be stationed at Camp Gordon as an instructor in trench mortars.

“Y” WORK IS OUTLINED IN CHAPEL ADDRESS

In a brief talk to the students last Friday morning, Mr. James A. G. Moore outlined the work that the Y. M. C. A. would do this year. In part, he said:

“When men enter army life, they come face to face with many new conditions and difficulties. The influences of the home, the church, and the Sunday School are largely done away with, and the soldier must face vital issues by himself. It is here that the Y. M. C. A. endeavors to help a man by keeping him in touch with his home, his church, and most of all, with God.”

The gymnasium is to be the “Y” building. The room to the right has been fitted up with a victrola, magazines, games, etc. There is also a good bit of athletic material which the fellows are urged to use. The religious work of the Y. M. C. A. will consist of a meeting every Sunday evening at 6:45 and the Sunday morning Bible classes, meeting at 10 o'clock. The book to be studied is one written for the soldiers by a man who is now in the army. It is “The Soldier Spirit,” by Geo. Stewart.

Remember that victory belongs to those who can hold out a quarter of an hour longer.

ANSWER TO CORRESPONDENTS

COMPANY FUNDS ARE TO BE ESTABLISHED HERE

“Can you state, in this department of your valued paper, some of the college traditions which a newcomer ought to know? TIMID FRESHMAN.”

* * *

Once upon a time, there were some college traditions, Timid; but they were all shot to pieces before you came on. You need have no fear of innocently breaking any of the ancient laws of the academic zone by saying “How do you do?” to the wrong person, or sitting on the wrong bench, or wearing the wrong kind of a hat. We aren’t giving a hang about such things, just now. Act like a he-man, and use your judgment; that’s all. The best account you can give of yourself is to keep smiling! If you are uncomfortable, grin! If the sergeant jolts your sensibilities, cheer! If the military proctor gets your goat, let him have it; there are more goats to be had. The college has gone to war—all of it—lock, stock, and barrel! Attend everything that looks like a patriotic meeting. Give your old duds to the Belgians. Save up your cash for the United War Work Campaign Fund. The college students led the country, last year, in donations to these movements—now combined for one big drive in November. Until we can get into the fight ourselves, let’s do our best to brace up the other fellows who are in it. Any student who finishes this academic year with money in his trousers has something wrong under his vest. We used to chaff the chap who was tighter’n an old tire on a rusty rim; now we despise him. “Raus mit him!” (He can understand that sentence, being part Boche). So, don’t be timid, Timid, about anything but grouchiness and stinginess. The only offenses you can possibly commit, this year, are soreness and tightness.

The question of establishing a post-exchange or canteen on the campus for the use of the local S. A. T. C. was deliberated upon for some time, but finally it was decided instead to use Elliott's, Jetton and White Drug Companies together as a post exchange. Each store has issued tickets which Lieutenant Dennard has allotted to those desiring them. The object of this is to give a student credit at these stores, his bills being subtracted from his pay at the end of the month. A commission will be granted by the stores on the products sold, which commission will go into a company fund, used as a council of three officers sees fit. The men will carry their cards about with them and they will be punched at the stores as they make their purchases. Up to Monday night, a large number of the cards had been issued to the students.

LITERARY NEWS.

Owing to the Students Army Training Corps at Davidson, most of the new books in the library are on military subjects. Some of the new ones are: “Non-Commissioned Officers Manual,” Moss; “Army and Navy Uniforms and Insignia,” Col. Dion Williams; “Peace and War Duties of Enlisted Men,” Moss; “A Dictionary of Military Terms,” Farrow; “Complete U. S. Infantry Guide,” from Government Publications; “Junior Plattsburg Manual,” Garey and Ellis; “Self-Helps for the Citizen Soldier,” Moss and Stewart. The following are not new books, but are on military subjects that may benefit those in the S. A. T. C.: “Field Service,” Moss; “Manual of Military Training,” Moss; “Private’s Manual,” Moss.

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.

Engraved Work a Specialty

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643)
NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative