The DAVIDSONIAN February 27, 1918

FORUM

A NEED.

The exercises and ceremonies held by the Davidson Battalion on Washington's Birthday, while very good, all things being considered, were lacking in one thing that would have greatly increased the impressiveness and spirit—and that is a band. A need for such an organization has been felt at Davidson in the past, and short-lived efforts have been made to have one, but for one reason or another they never materialized. But now that Davidson has military training, the need is felt more than ever, and a band would be an important and useful addition to our military organization. Of course, a band of many pieces could not be raised here with the limited number of students, but a small band could, or at least a bugle and drum corps. Cannot some of the musicians of Davidson “get their heads together” and perfect some such organization, so that on the next occasion the battalion makes a public appearance, and there will be other times this spring, an even better showing can be made?

Don’t Forget to have that Suit DRY CLEANED for Junior Speaking

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Red Cross News

In the New York Evening Post, Mr. William Allen White has published an article entitled “Why Doesn’t the Government Do It?” This, he says, is the question which most frequently meets a solicitor for Red Cross funds. Considering Red Cross in terms of socks, and sweaters, chloroform and sweet-faced nurses, it might be done. But this is a small part of the Red Cross work. Naturally, it would increase taxes, and put into politics something that is high and beautiful in life. But could the Government look after families of soldiers? Could it spend millions of dollars on canteens, where weary soldiers coming back from the trenches have lodging, bath and food, sympathy and kind words—could it? In less than a week after the Italian breakdown, the American Red Cross was distributing aid to thousands of dollars in cash, distributing emergency aid. The work of skilled engineers is helping to restore owners to their broken homes. Could this be done under Government rule? asks Mr. White. Well, hardly. The American Government simply couldn't do it. For these experts would not work for the salaries that this government could pay. Yet for nothing, for the sheer love of service, for the joy they feel in helping their fellow men, these experts are doing this work for the American Red Cross. These men and women feel that they are not tied up by Federal red tape. They feel that no party is taking credit for their work, to use that credit in winning elections. So, as free, unfettered American citizens, they are giving their whole lives and strength to this Red Cross work, working sometimes all day and all night in emergencies; and they know that there are no rewards, no promotions, no glory, no mention in the newspapers—nothing but joyous service and sacrifices and the exaltation that comes from seeing one’s work grow under one’s hand and bear fruit. Every man or woman who out of his own heart here at home gives to support the Red Cross is helping our cause from an angle of attack that is new in modern war. It is the angle of brotherhood. It stiffens the courage of the civilians. It puts heart into our soldier allies by the comforting knowledge that their home affairs are going well. And every dollar put into the Red Cross makes not only for victory in this war, but for everlasting peace between the great nations now fighting together in this war. We are in the business of summoning the resources of the greatest nation on earth in the purest mission that a nation ever espoused.become busy; our young men register; and our armies become trained, and we undertake our share in this conflict. Not to add a square inch to the territory of the United States; not to take from any man, woman, or child in the world a single thing which belongs to them; not even for the glory of successful arms; but in order to re-establish those principles of national justice without which national continuance and life cannot prevail, and to give to the stricken people of the world who have been fighting for the right, rest and respite to rehabilitate their almost destroyed civilization. — Newton Baker.

Three unpaid workers were going through Italy with thousands in building up destroyed villages and help. It could not hire the 18.

ALL-STAR BASEBALL TEAM.

I have been at Davidson, I made, or have not sufficient statistics of. My baseball selection is as follows:
L. “17, catcher, Chipley, Alford, F. Fla.
Hengeveld, F., ‘18, pitcher, Waycross, Ga.
Lawson, W. D., ‘18, pitcher, Yazoo, Miss.
Sanders, A. P., ‘18, first, Fredericksburg, Va.
Christenbury, L., ‘16, second, Davidson, N.C.
Wood, A. C., ‘18, shortstop, Asheville, N.C.
Black, J. M., ‘18, third, Harrisburg, N.C.
Brown, B. M., right, Cornelius, N.C.
McMillan, Z. V., '17, center, Red Springs, N.C.
Stough, F., ‘16, left, Cornelius, N.C.

Four of these men: Alford, Hengeveld, Christenbury, and Stough, have had teams, while three others had opportunities for offers from several big league minor league services. Since leaving college, three of the number have had professional experience.

The war is to be a supreme test. We are to test the fiber of our people; we are to test our ability to cooperate; we are to test our sense of nationalism; we are to test our loyalty to Democracy; we are to test to the ultimate the resources of our nation, the capacity of our mines and miners, of our farms and farmers, of our mills and mill hands. We are to test our own vision and the greatness of our own minds—whether we are worthy of a large future or wedded to a little life; we are to test our own conception of this country and its relation to the world. And we shall not fail. — Franklin K. Lane.

A start has been made towards beautifying the grounds around the church. A plan arranged by a landscape gardener is being followed, and the work is expected to be completed in a year or two. So far about a hundred shrubs have been planted, mostly barberry and various kinds of spirea.

In my selection of an All-Star football team last week, it was not understood by some that the selection was made from the teams of the past four years. I believe, however, that the team would be a fair representative for the past ten or twelve years with only a few changes to be made. It is not my purpose to select a team from those I have not seen in action.

Buy Now and Save Money
Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DRY CLEANING
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
The Charlotte Laundry
606 Chestnut St.
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night
By Backing The Commissary

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
Philadelphia

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

FOR Furnishings, Gents’ Furnishings, Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
M.H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

Faculty Students
We can supply your wants
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place