The DAVIDSONIAN April 24, 1918

LETTER FROM DR. LINGLE.

The following extract is from a letter of Dr. T. W. Lingle, who has been in the Y. M. C.
A. work in France for a number of months. The letter was to one of his student friends, and his
description of the artillery activities should be of deep interest to all of us. He writes:

“Well, beginning March 12, the Boches bombarded my corner of the country every day for a week with their long-range
guns, though no shell fell right in our camp. They came very near on three sides. When a big one
exploded anywhere within half a mile, it seemed to be right outside the barrack, and the screaming shrapnel seemed to
be coming through our quarters. One night they began at nine and continued for an hour. Night before last they
began promptly at eleven, just as I got into my cot. As sleeping was not good, I decided to count
the shells. Most of them went diagonally across a point to my front to a point on my right, screaming
as they went. I counted exactly 50, of which 10 failed to explode. Those that did explode caused the hills
to shake and re-echo for some time. At midnight they stopped. At dawn, I was wakened by the machine-gun fire
of a hostile aviator attacking a convoy on a nearby road, and then the anti-aircraft cannon that volleyed forth at
him. I hope the fellows with the machine guns may not have occasion to visit this camp at night.

“I have been in night bombardments by aviators, under the fire of machine guns, and under fire of the long-range
guns—all a number of times. I wonder if this is the popular conception of Y. M. C. A. work among
our folks at home? However, a kind Providence has protected me so far, and I hope I may long be
permitted to serve the men of France, who are fighting for us.

“This morning I was awakened by heavy artillery on my right. Not five seconds has it ceased during the day,
and up to this hour—11 p.m.—it is illuminating the heavens, rattling everything that is loose about my room, and making
night hideous. I doubt if there is much sleeping for me tonight.

“Last week I saw American troops for the first time in France—saw them by the tens of thousands. They looked
fine to me, and I am sure they will do their part.

“Give my regards to all my friends.

“Cordially yours,
“Thos. W. Lingle,
“Permanent address: Paris: Rue La- fayette 13.”

FRESH-SOPH MAGAZINE OUT.

The Fresh-Soph number of the Davidson College Magazine has at last come from the press, and as a whole, it
proves the ability of these two classes in literary work. Many new names occur in the list of those contributing
poetry. These men are to be commended for their entrance into this field, which is beyond doubt, the highest form
of literary composition. The material for the last number is now being collected, and will go to press about May
1. There is still room for a few more good selections, so those who are gifted along this line should
come forward and do their best for this, the last issue of the year. There will be a special collection
of student poetry. Every effort will be made to make this the best number of the year.

SIGMA UPSILON INITIATES.

The following men have recently been initiated into the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon: D. M. Chalmers, E. Flinn,
J. J. Love, Wm. Love, J. W. McAlister, and E. A. Woods.

FACULTY AND STUDENT COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS.

Dr. W. J. Martin will be one of the speakers at the Union Theological Seminary commencement. Prof. A. Currie will
deliver the commencement address at Marion City Schools on May 15. Dr. J. Moore McConnell will deliver the commencement address
at Mitchell College on May 14, and on May 15 will address the Trained Nurses’ graduating class of Chester Sanatorium.
W. C. Cumming, '18, will deliver the literaryAddress, and R. E. McClure, 49, will address the Y.M.C.A. at the Westminster
School commencement, May 12-14.

WILDCATS ARE SECOND
(Continued from page 1)

Crouch, Davidson, second; Rae, Tech, third. Time, :53 1-5.

Mile Run—Brand, Davidson, won; McCleskey, Tech, second; Parker, Tech, third. Time, 4:50.

Discus—Gray, Davidson, won; Champion, Tech, second; Rodgers, Sewanee, third. Distance, 110 feet.

Broad Jump—Holst, Tech, won; Hammond, Sewanee, second; McRae, Tech, third. Distance, 20.5 feet.

DAVIDSON WINS ITS SECOND DEBATE
(Continued from page 1)

...would conform with our existing Government, and the fear of a political machine being recruited from among the railway employees
was shown to be groundless. Men are efficient for two reasons, it was asserted: to hold their jobs, and from
a feeling of responsibility to the stockholders. Under Government ownership, both of these reasons would have weight, especially the second
reason, when in place of four thousand stockholders they would be responsible to one hundred million. It was granted that
the Government would lose twenty-five million dollars through general business inefficiency and then, to be liberal, this estimate was doubled.
It was estimated on good authority that some forty million dollars would be saved on salaries, standardization of equipment, etc.,
and then that as the Government can borrow money at a smaller rate of interest, the saving of one percent
interest on all railroad bonds alone would amount to ninety million dollars. Thus, a saving of one hundred and thirty
million dollars would be effected, and Bellingrath brought down the house by informing his opponents that the Government could cover
that fifty million dollar deficit and still have enough to give them eighty million dollars as pocket change.

Mr. Ovens, before announcing the decision of the judges, gave a cordial invitation to all to attend the giant Patriotic
Music Festival to be held in Charlotte the last night of April. He very ably kept the audience and debaters
in suspense as to the result until the last moment, when he awarded the decision to Davidson. Pandemonium broke loose
and cheers were quickly given for Roanoke and Davidson, individually and collectively.

The debate was late in starting owing to the failure of two judges to arrive, and at the last moment,
a third judge had to be selected from the audience to allow the debate to start. This delay was regrettable
but unavoidable, and the debate which followed proved to be well worth the few extra minutes spent in waiting and
discussing the cause of the trouble. Davidson has just cause to be proud of her second Intercollegiate Debating Team, composed
of R. W. Cousar and G. C. Bellingrath, who so well upheld all her former forensic reputations.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St.
Statesville, N.C.

When you want the best values, call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a
big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N.C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

RUTLEDGE NORTON
Up-to-Date Barbers

We carry a complete line of Men’s and Boys’ Clothing made in the best makes at prices to suit all.
We invite you to inspect the famous KUPPENHEIMER CLOTHES, known the world over. Pay cash and save money. New showing
of Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, and Interwoven Hose.

V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, and Greensboro
