The DAVIDSONIAN
March 13, 1918

Y. M. C. A. HEARS INTERESTING ADDRESS

Rev. A. A. McLean, '06, addressed the Y. M. C. A. Thursday night, basing his remarks on Mark 11:24: "Therefore
I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall
have them." Mr. McLean said that the "determining factor of Christ with the individual is faith." This fact is especially
shown by the familiar command with which Christ performed His miracles. "According to your faith be it unto you." This
fact is also for Christ always required some evidence of faith before he would command "Thy sins be forgiven thee."
It is a common error for people to hope for everything for which they pray. The promise, as quoted above
from Mark 11:24, seems to be unlimited in its literal interpretation. However, it has limitations: (1) There is the natural
limitation that the promise is not made to Christ’s enemies; (2) We cannot hope for God to answer prayers the
answers to which would work harm to us; (3) What man thinks best is not always best in the mind
of God. The lesson is that faith should have a warrant and the warrants for faith are found in the
Bible. In the Bible are promises of comfort to the worried, of strength to the tempted, and of assurance of
salvation to the doubter. In order to find the promises that meet our particular needs, we have to know our
Bible. Prayer is also a means of assurance and revelation. "Prayer implies communion and communion implies two persons." Once God
has revealed Himself He never changes that revelation and having revealed to us our particular duty He will not change
that revelation until that duty is discharged. "What more could we ask than that the promises be expressed in plain
words as in the Bible and that they be experienced as in prayer."

Red Cross News

Again our workroom has been called on to assist with a rush order for Camp Greene. Two hundred gauze dressings
are our portion, besides new abdominal bandages. This provides work of great variety—cutting, folding, basting, stitching. We shall need more
workers than have been in attendance for the past week. As the spring comes on, it will mean a greater
sacrifice to the workers to continue the Red Cross work, but we shall have to bear in mind that we
are preparing now against the needs of our own men. We cannot now let our hospital supplies run short. Not
while our own are "over there." One of our Red Cross workers in France says: "While the men here are
doing their part, we all realize that it is made possible by the people at home doing so much, and
without their help little could be done. It’s a wonderful help to feel we have all U. S. A. back
of us, working hard, giving their time, and money freely. That alone would make anyone do his best."

BATTLE RAGES IN GEORGIA

John L. Sullivan is dead, but his spirit keeps living on. No more striking evidence could be wished for than
the 47-round combat staged last Monday, when Harrell, the Heavyweight Holocaust of the Elysian Boulevard, and Liston, the Alert Aggravator
of Alabama, met for the Bull Slinging Championship of Mecklenburg County. Both of these pugilists have long been recognized as
the leaders in their art by all members on the campus, and when they met for the final combat betting
was about even as to the result. Both fighters have undergone severe training, as is evident from the vast amount
of "Zip" that has been consumed by them during the past months. The fight went on at a terrific pace,
and both fighters were exhausted when the referee brought the matter to an end. Liston, the Whirlwind Whaler, showed magnificent
footwork.and rushed his opponent with the same spirit he displays in debating before the Eumenean Society. But the Terrific Tornado,
Harrell, came back with wonderful force and put up an excellent defense as well as a vigorous attack. Both fighters
seemed to direct their attention to face blows, and especially aimed at the mouth. The object in this attack seemed
to disable the other's talking powers, for both realized that if he could stop his opponent from talking, he would
be sure to win the day. In fact, it would have been a fairer test if the two contestants had
been placed opposite and allowed to talk away until one or the other succumbed. This would have been pretty rough
on the audience, however, and in these days when the brutal parts of the prize ring have been banished, it
is probably well that the opponents confined themselves to fighting and let the talking contest alone. Liston announced that he
was fighting to make the world safe for democracy, while Harrell declared in favor of no annexations and no indemnities.
Both of the gentlemen were also in favor of peace without victory. A magnificent purse of $37.98, which was to
go to the winner, was generously donated to the War Work of the Society for the Promulgation of Promiscuous Pugnacity.

HOWARD QUINTET IS LAST LYCEUM ATTRACTION

The last Lyceum attraction of this season will be held in Shearer Hall Saturday night, March 30. The attraction will
be given by the Howard Quintet. This company will be comprised of two solo violinists, a cello and flute soloist,
piano soloist, and accompanist. Mr. John E. Howard is director of the Wisconsin State Normal School at River Falls, and
a prominent member of the St. Paul Symphony Orchestra. The program of the Howard Quintet will be one of the
best of the season. Each member of the quintet is an accomplished performer, and music for everyone will be furnished.

Miss Charlotte Cranford visited friends in Statesville last week.

Faculty Students

Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

Spalding Sweaters

Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors, and prices. Complete details in
our Catalogue, mailed on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS. ATLANTA, GA. 74 N. BROAD ST.

THE COMMISSARY

Dr. Wm. J. Martin spoke in Greensboro on Monday, March 11, in connection with the Stewardship Campaign.

The Charlotte Laundry

Significant of miracles of a spiritual nature.

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

DRY CLEANING

The Hoover & Smith Co.

High Grade Laundering Hats Cleaned & Reblocked Official Fraternity Jewelers Oldest Largest Best

A. S. Petts, College Agent, 20 Chambers Laundry collected every TUESDAY night 616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W. W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal

When in Mooresville Visit The Miller-White Drug Company FOR Gents’ Furnishings, Special Attention to Davidson Men Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc.,
go to Tobe Johnson

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE

17 Years at the Same Place

We can supply your wants

Shoes “pares” Walk-Overs Pair Be Quality Style Representative will be on the Hill in near future to take orders for
your Spring Shoes

C. McDonald

Let the Shu-Fixery Fix ’Em.

For Fresh Meats Call WHITE'S, 25-W Cornelius

CLEARANCE SALE

All Men’s and Boys’ Overcoats Buy Now and Save Money

Belk Brothers Charlotte
