|| Red Cross News

Who knows the story of the Giant Scissors? It is about a young Prince, whose father gave him a pair
of scissors instead of a sword and sent him out to win his fortune. By and by, the young Prince
found that by helping people in difficulties and distress, his scissors grew sharper and stronger, and were able to do
quite as much for him as a sword. But when he forgot or neglected to use his scissors and did
no unselfish and helpful deeds, his scissors grew dull and stiff. So, he learned to look for kind deeds to
do and he won for himself a host of friends and happiness, and his scissors grew to be “giant scissors.”

Right here in our town some little girls, a dozen of them, have been using their scissors to help provide
comfort for wounded soldiers. In the afternoons, Miss Vic Wither has had them gather at her home and there they
have patiently and painfully cut scraps to fill comfort pillows for the use of the wounded on the battlefields. Many
a little hand has been blistered, but very proudly borne for the sake of the Red Cross, which the little
girls wear on cap and apron. We hope their scissors will grow to be “giant scissors;” then, when these little
girls grow to be big girls and grown women, every place they go will be a better and happier place,
because of their helpful hands and unselfish thought of others.

Now, we have a plan for these little Junior girls—to gather whole lots of flowers and send bunches and bunches
to the hospital at Camp Greene for the soldiers and nurses. And little girls, will you please tell the grown-up
women in your family and neighborhood that their scissors can grow, too? Though they can't go out and fight the
enemy with a sword, they can use their scissors at home, and perhaps help many a man to live and
fight another day. You see, the grown-ups didn’t learn to do Red Cross work when they were little, and they
don’t seem to learn fast enough, so will you please help and just ask them all the time: “Are you
doing your bit for Red Cross?”

This letter is meant for the Junior members: Daisy Caldwell, Susie Jackson, Mary Hall, Jane L. Richards, Kittie Martin, Jean
Grey, Sara Withers, Mary Grace Brown, Adele Arbuckle, Jessamine Brown, Sophie Richards.

This little poem was written by one of the Junior Red Crossers, age 8 years, early one morning while she
was thinking of her work:

ARE YOU KNITTING?

A woman with knitting
And a little child, too,
The soldiers are wearing
The knitting you do.
As long as you're living
And knitting lots, too,
The soldiers are wearing
The knitting you do.
Is your mother knitting?
And your sister, too?
The soldiers are wearing
The knitting they do.

PHIS WIN DECISION IN FRESH-SOPH DEBATE

In Shearer Hall, last Monday night, the Fresh-Soph debating team of the Phi Society clearly proved to the judges that
woman suffrage should not be granted in the United States by an amendment to the Federal Constitution. This being the
first time that an inter-society debate has been held between the Fresh-Soph teams, much interest was shown by the student
body. The Eu team, composed of Love, Liston, and McGirt, upheld the affirmative, while Clontz, Knight, and Chalmers, of the
Phi Society, argued the negative.The Phi Society defended the negative. Love opened the debate for the affirmative, defined the amendment
that would be submitted, and outlined the issue of the debate. He argued that it is just that women should
have the ballot because they are a factor in the economic and intellectual world and in this way earn the
right to vote. Clontz, the first speaker of the negative, showed that the issue of woman suffrage is fundamentally wrong
because women do not want the ballot and it would be to the detriment of the home. He showed further
that the experiment in states where it has been in force for some time did not warrant its adoption by
all states. Liston, the next speaker on the affirmative, brought out numerous instances where better legislation has resulted from woman
suffrage. Knight, the second speaker for the negative, proved (1) that women do not have the physical power to back
their ballot; (2) that the ballot will not better their working conditions. McGirt closed the debate for the affirmative by
showing that a national amendment is the best way to obtain suffrage. Chalmers, who closed the debate for the negative,
showed that the adoption of a national amendment would be an open violation of states' rights. The rejoinders were especially
forceful and contained much "new" information. The judges, Messrs. Vreeland and Davis, of Charlotte, and Ariel, of Mooresville, decided unanimously
in favor of the negative. They also decided that the medal given by the Phi Society should go to D.
M. Chalmers, and that of the Eu Society should go to Wm. Love.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

S. M. GILBERT AT THE COMMISSARY
Is Our Representative at the College

SPALDING’S Club Special BASEBALL SHOE
RECOMMENDED for school and college players. Strongly made of selected leather, in sprinting style with flexible soles. See it in
our catalogue at A. G. Spalding & Bros. The Commissary

Special Attention to Davidson Men

DRY CLEANING
The Hoover & Smith Co.
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
Official Fraternity Jewelers
The Charlotte Laundry; Oldest, Largest, Best
A. S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers
616 Chestnut St, Philadelphia
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

In Many a Secluded Nook
A Good Pen will be a Welcome Companion
Waterman's Ideal Fountain Pen

Fellows! Drop in at the Quality Store

For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

When in Mooresville Visit
The Miller-White Drug Company

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

FOR Gents’ Furnishings, Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to M.H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
We can supply your wants

Jetton’s C. McDonald
Let the Shu-Fixery Fix ‘Em.

For Fresh Meats & Groceries
Get Your Easter Suit at Belk’s
Extra good values at $15.00, $18.50, $22.50, and $25. We sell Schloss and Hamberger hand-tailored Suits.
Styleplus Guaranteed Suits, $17.00, $21.00, and $25.00
Belk Brothers, Charlotte
