4

DR. W. T. LAPRADE MAKES OPENING U. W. W. ADDRESS

The United War Campaign was opened in the college by a talk given here Sunday night by Dr. W. T. Laprade. Dr. Laprade is a former professor of Trinity College, but is now engaged in the training of “Y” secretaries at Blue Ridge.

Dr. Laprade opened his talk by showing the opportunity and responsibility of the young man of today. “The greatest need for Christian service in the history of the world,” Dr. Laprade said, “is today. But in order to get something good out of the sacrifices that are being made on the battlefields of Europe and that have been made, things must be organized. For the next few years more money will be needed than when the fellows were fighting. Now that the real goal has been reached, the real danger arises for the boys ‘over there.’ More money and effort will be needed to keep up their morale. More will be required.

“The victory that the boys have won must be made good. The Y. M. C. A. plans to establish schools ‘over there’ to prepare the boys for work when they come back. The money required for this work will be only a small sum compared with the sums we have spent for guns. This money will go directly and wholly to our boys. Our boys are due it. The victory has been won at a very great cost. The only justification in God's sight will be to make the victory good. Each individual is in the army, has friends in the army, or is a citizen of the United States. The boys ‘over there’ must be made and kept the best of men, for they will form the next generation. So in giving to the United War Work Campaign one gives to a most fundamental cause. The share for Davidson College is four thousand.

After such an inspiring talk by Dr. Laprade in which he showed the sacrifices of the boys ‘over there’ and the ‘Y’ secretaries, Davidson College will go ‘over the top’ without a doubt and uphold her reputation.

FRATERNITY HOUSES ARE ALLOWED TO RE-OPEN

Monday was one big day! One of the interesting happenings of that day was the opening of the fraternities. The fraternities in all S. A. T. C. colleges were ordered closed by the government October 20. The order has now been rescinded and the houses are open again, much to the pleasure of the members. The commanding officer has the right to put any restrictions on them he sees fit, but he states that so long as they do not interfere with military work he will place no restrictions on them.

SOLDIERS HAD PAY DAY—CAUSES GREAT REJOICING

Among the many announcements of glad tidings on Monday was one concerning pay day. There have been many rumors concerning this subject, but that it would actually come on Tuesday was the first specific official announcement concerning the issuing of the pay for October. We all received our pay yesterday and now we are burdened with the responsibility of dispensing with it.

Private Blank, of Blank Company (showing his disregard for discipline)—“You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make him drink.”
Old Timer—“No, but they can stick old horse’s nose under the water and let him use his own judgment.”—Ex.

W. T. Smith, of Co. A, is now out of the infirmary, where he has been sick with pneumonia.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 15, November 13, 1918

RED CROSS CHAPTER IS NOW KNITTING SWEATERS

The regular work of the Davidson Red Cross Society has been somewhat neglected this fall on account of unavoidable interruptions. Who shall say, though, that the knitting of sweaters and the making of bandages is more important than the work which has been done? The first interruption came in the form of the influenza epidemic in the college. No one on the campus needs to be told of the importance of the work done by the members of the society in checking the disease here. Close on the heels of the college epidemic came a similar outbreak in the town. There, too, the Red Cross did invaluable work. In addition to the work done by its members, the society secured the services of Miss Hill, trained nurse and daughter of Mr. John Hill, for the sick town people. The backbone of the epidemic seems to have been broken now, but there is still danger from isolated cases. The society is trying to find another trained nurse to take the place of Miss Hill, who has been called to other important work.

Now that the influenza situation does not require the active work of many of the members, the society is getting down to usual work again. Wool for the knitting of sweaters has already been issued to the ladies. A number of Christmas boxes are to be filled soon. These will be mailed in the regular Red Cross cartons which have been ordered. A Home Service department is now being organized and this work is to be vigorously prosecuted in the future. The Junior Red Cross is also doing good work. Little girls from six to ten have learned to knit squares and are now meeting once a week to make these into quilts for our wounded soldiers.

LIBRARY NOTES. Wehave little time to spend these days reading novels. And what time we may have for reading fiction is generally spent with current magazines, either at the “Y” reading room or at the library. When we do sit down with a book, it is to learn something serious. So, naturally, the number of books dealing with science is increasing faster than those of all other books in the library, except military. The following group of books, dealing with science, is typical of what the library can afford on kindred subjects: “The Earth, Its Life and Death,” Berget; “Earthquakes,” Milne; “Earthquakes,” Hobbs; “The Earthquake,” Train; “Naturalist’s Voyage Around the World,” Darwin; “Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs,” Darwin; “Physico-Chemical Methods,” Troube, translated by W. L. Hardin; “Textbook of Botany,” Coulter, Barnes, Cowles. All but one or two of these books are new. The following are books on literary subjects: “The Cycle of Spring,” Tagore; “The Greatest of Literary Problems,” Baxter; “On the Art of Writing,” Quiller-Couch; “Shakespeare and the Founders of Liberty in America,” Gayley; “Representative Plays by American Dramatists,” Moses; “Letters of Richard Watson Gilder,” Gilder. Ignorance of the library hour has caused quite a little confusion and trouble on the campus. At present, the library is open from 2 to 4 p.m. and from 5 to 7:15 p.m. The reading room is open all day—from 9 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Those students not in the S. A. T. C. are asked to get their books from the library during the earlier hours, if convenient, so that there will not be a congestion from 5 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. D. C. Corriker, ex-’20, spent Saturday afternoon on the Hill.

COLLEGE FICTION.

Anybody can write a story about college life. If he has not attended a college, so much the better. His imagination is less trammeled. A few simple rules must be observed, however:
1. All heroes are named Jack, Stanley, or Dick.
2. All college men wear sweaters always, and smoke short, fat bowled pipes.
3. There is always a “Fatty,” who is a funny fellow.
4. Any four college men make up a quartet, which can sing “Mer-hi-lee-ee we ro-hull along” at any time.
5. All college men are wooing a girl named Betty or Dorothy, who is “sweet and pure as an angel.”
6. All college men address each other as “old hoss.”
7. College men never study, but spend their time tossing repartee back and forth.
8. All college rooms are adorned with pennants.
9. All college men call their fathers “Pater,” and speak of the “Honor of the dear old school” in a husky voice.

“JUST WHAT EDUCATION IS.”

In a composition upon “Education,” a boy once wrote: “Education is going to school, which is being marked every day and examined on paper and then promoted, and if you are a girl you graduate and have flowers, but if you are a boy you don’t have flowers; you only go to college.” A somewhat unique, comprehensive definition, deplorable but cheerful.

Cheerful One (to Rookies, on being asked what the trenches are like)—"If yer stands up yer gets sniped; if yer moves yer gets shelled; and if yer stands still yer gets court-martialed for frostbite.”

R. L. McLeod, '22, has left college because of bad health. He expects, however, to return after Christmas.

Sgt. O. C. Williamson, ‘18, witnessed the Washington and Lee-Davidson game on Sprunt Field Saturday afternoon. Williamson was returning from a trip to New York to Camp Jackson, where he is engaged in hospital office work.

S. C. Harris, '17, of the Naval Aviation Service, who is just over an attack of pneumonia, was on the Hill Saturday to witness the game.

GENERAL ORDERS AT THE MESS-TABLE

1. To take charge of this table and all the grub in view.
2. To eat my meal in a military manner, always keeping on the alert so that no one will get more grub than I do.
3. To repeat all calls for grub from persons more distant than me.
4. To report the mess-sergeant if we don’t get enough to eat.
5. To quit eating only when the grub is all gone.
6. To receive and eat all things the mess-sergeant or K. P.’s might give me and to ask for more if I am still hungry.
7. To talk to no one unless I want something passed.
8. In case the meal is not ready, to give the alarm.
9. To salute all pork-chops, pie, cake, sauce, or anything that is real good to eat.
10. At any time there not being everything on the table, to call for the mess-sergeant.
11. To challenge all persons who get more pork-chops than I do and to report all persons who take more than one piece of pie.

—A Private, in Ex.

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE? The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you. Engraved Work a Specialty.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643)
NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative