6 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1918

W. P. PARKER WRITES TO DAVIDSON STUDENT BODY

The following letter has been received from the missionary, William P. Parker. Mr. Parker is partially supported by funds collected at Davidson College in behalf of his work. He writes most encouragingly of his work. Every Davidson man should be deeply interested in his work and give it his hearty support.

Pyengyang, Korea, Sept. 17, 1918.

Dear Fellow Workers:

We returned from annual meeting the first part of July, and stayed here till August 1. At that time we went down to Sorai Beach, a missionary resort some ninety miles from here on the west coast of Korea, and spent the month of August there. We did not do much studying as we found we were both pretty well tired out, but spent most of the month in getting a rest. We are all three much benefited by our stay there, and feel much better fitted for our fall work. Mr. Whiting, of China, conducted a series of Bible studies at Sorai, and these were a great help in our spiritual life, and have been an inspiration for further study. We are so busy with other things that we do not get the time for Bible study that we ought to take, and we have resolved to do more of it in the future than in the past. With regular scheduled work it is impossible to find one time to suit all, so our study for the most part must be private.

Jess has grown a great deal, and is fat and well as can be, except for a slight cold, and her mother is in much better health than last year. God has certainly been good to us, and we feel His presence ever with us in our work here.

The Academy opened September 2, and the College opened the next day, so we have been very busy ever since our return. Besides, we have had to move. While at Sorai we received news that Dr. Baird was to be married, and that he would have to have his whole house again, so we made plans to move over to Mr. Bernheisel’s and do co-operative housekeeping with him. As you may know, Mrs. Bernheisel is at home at present with her little daughter, on account of the latter’s health. They hope to return next February, but even after their return we plan to keep on at Mr. B.'s till our furlough next June. Dr. Baird is expected back in a month or so. He was married in August. This move makes our sixth since we've been married, and we each moved three times when single, so we are getting used to the process. However, it does not improve with time, and we will be most happy when we can get a home of our own. Till that time we will probably have to move at least once a year, as now we get furloughed missionaries’ houses. Everybody has been very kind in letting us go into their houses, but we will appreciate getting settled all the same.

A few boys have dropped out from school, but the attendance is good, and some new students have entered at this time, though as a rule we only receive boys the first of the school year in April. Mr. Mowry’s return has been greeted with joy by all. He is a great favorite with the Koreans and has won his way into the hearts of them all. He will take some of the burden of the work off of some of the rest of us, though Mr. Bolling Reynolds’ removal to Kunsan has given Mr. Mowry the work Reynolds carried last year. Mr. Narahashi, our Japanese science teacher, is back also, and seems to be completely recovered. He could not do any work last spring. During the summer he lost his second son from tuberculosis, and this has been very hard on him. We hoped to obtain two more Japanese for teachers, but have not been able to obtain them yet. Our new president is doing some teaching also. And so we are all back into traces again, and we are all glad to be there.

I wanted to write you early in the month, but there has been much to do and time has gone.Very fast, so even now I will not try to write you more at length, but will have to let this outline of our work do instead of a long letter. We hope that all of you have had a good summer, and that God is blessing you in your work. Pray for us continually. We know that you do pray for us, and we do feel the effect of your prayers. Remember the revival that we are longing for throughout Korea, and pray that it may begin with us and spread throughout the church. Mr. Buchman is expected in Korea again this fall, and expects to visit Pyengyang then. Pray for the meetings he may conduct here and at other stations. With all best wishes, I am yours in the service, W. O. PARKER.

FRANCE TO BE STUDIED BY BOOK-LOVER'S CLUB

The Book-Lover's Club has for its subject the coming year “France.” The program in full is:

Nov. 8 at Mrs. W. R. Grey's: “France and Its Historical Connection With the United States (Friendly and Unfriendly Relations).” Paper by Miss Vinson.

Nov. 22 at Mrs. Fulton's: “Paris and Versailles.” Papers by Mrs. Arbuckle and Miss Thompson.

Dec. 6 at Mrs. Arbuckle’s: “Cities of War Zone.” Papers by Miss Withers and Mrs. McConnell.

Dec. 20 at Mrs. Johnston's: “French Life. (a) City Life; (b) Country Life.” Papers by Miss Douglas and Mrs. Currie.

Jan. 3 at Miss Johnston's: “French Educational System.” Papers by Mrs. C. I. Grey and Mrs. Jackson.

Jan. 17 at Mrs. McConnell’s: “Government.” Paper by Miss Ellinwood.

Jan. 31 at Mrs. Richards’: “Religious Awakening.” Paper by Mrs. Block.

Feb. 14 at Miss Thompson's: “War Leaders.” Paper by Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Feb. 28 at Miss Vinson’s: “French Designs and Fashions.” Paper by Mrs. Fulton.

March 13 at Mrs. Withers’: “French Scientists.” Paper by Mrs. Douglas.

March 28 at Miss Withers’: “Famous Women.” Papers by Mrs. Johnston and Mrs. Reed.

April 11 at Mrs. Block's: “Chateaux of France.” Paper by Mrs. Wood.

April 25 at Mrs. Woods’: “Literature.” Lecture.

May 9 at Miss Young's: “Present-day Conditions.” Paper by Miss Johnston.

The meeting for October 25 was postponed to October 29. It will be held with Mrs. J. M. Douglas, on the topic, “War of 1870 and Alsace-Lorraine.” A paper will be read by Mrs. Withers.

Hist. Prof—What do you know about the age of Elizabeth, Mr. M—?

Mr. M—(dreamily)—“She'll be eighteen her next birthday, doctor.”

Notice has been received of the safe arrival overseas of Sgt. Robt. U. Woods, ex-'19, Unit 2, Ft. Caswell S. A. R. D., via N.Y. A. E. F.

“How’s politics?”

“Looking up. Three gentlemen candidates are doing my reaping for me and a couple of lady candidates are helping mother put up preserves.” —Louisville Courier-Journal.

Dr. Moffett.

Brown's Cafe

THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe

AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Germany Does Not Keep Us From Delivering

THE BEST FRESH MEAT

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED

White’s Market

Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

BUILT Uniforms

Alteration---French Dry Cleaning

The MURRAY COMPANY

31 South Tryon St. Phone No. 429

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STUDENT

We didn’t sell out—We are right here

with the best line of Military Goods

O. D. Wool Uniforms..... $25 to $50

O. D. Moleskin Uniforms....... $15

O. D. Short Overcoats... $10 to $19.50

O. D. Long Overcoats.. $27.50 to $30

Regulation Caps.......... $2 to $3.50

Leather Puttees... $3.98 to $16.50

Regulation Officers’ Shoes... $10

REMEMBER

“SELL IT FOR LESS”

Convince You. Address MAIL ORDER DEPT.

27 S. Tryon Street

DENTIST

Office Over Bank

Over Postal Telegraph Office

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

W. M. Torrence, Jeweler

Belk Bros.

COLLEGE JEWELRY

STAPLE and FANCY GROCERIES

Fresh Meats At All Times

Confectioneries and Fruits

L. B. LONG

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery... Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

The Rexall Store

WHITE DRUG CO.

Fellows Smiley’s

See Me For Auto Trips

WHEN HUNGRY EAT AT