BOOKS IN THE LIBRARY RELATING TO THE WAR

Bang, J. P., Hurrah and Hallelujah; 234 p. The teaching of Germany’s poets, prophets, professors, and preachers. Dr. Bang is
Professor of Theology at the University of Copenhagen.

Barbusse, Henri, Under Fire; 366 p. A translation of Henri Barbusse’s “Le Feu,” awarded the Concourt Academie prize last year
and said to be the most unexpurgated account of trench life written since the war began.

Beck, James M., Evidence in the Case and War and Humanity. The content of the first book is shown by
its title, and the second is a discussion of the ethics of the war.

Beith, John Hay, First Hundred Thousand. Sketches of the adventures of a regiment of Kitchener's Army, showing how the humor
of the human race can lighten any situation.

Bryce, James, and others, The War of Democracy: The Allies’ Statement. A collection of articles, addresses, documents, etc., contributed by
Viscount Bryce, Lloyd George, Balfour, Asquith, and Sir George Murray, other distinguished Englishmen.

Cholmondeley, Alice, Christine; 250 p. Letters from a young musician giving with startling clearness her experience in Germany, just before
the outbreak of the war.

Cohen, Israel, Ruhleben Prison Camp. A record of nineteen months’ internment in the camp where all British civilians of military
age are concentrated.

Conner, Ralph, The Major. A well-told story showing the attitude of Canadians at the opening of the war.

Curtin, D. Thomas, The Land of the Deepening Shadow. “Taken all in all, this book on Germany and the Germans
at the third year of war covers more of the inner workings of the German Empire than any that has
come to hand.”

Dawson, Coningsby William, Carry On: Letters in War Time. Letters written from dugouts on the Somme battle front. “We've got
to win,” writes Lieutenant Dawson, “so that men may never again be tortured by the ingenious inquisition of modern warfare.”

Empey, Arthur Guy, Over the Top. The most popular war book we have had. There are now, after six months,
fifteen calls registered for it.

Gerard, James W., My Four Years in Germany. The volume is interestingly illustrated with photographic reproductions and facsimiles of documents,
among which is the letter cabled from the Kaiser to President Wilson soon after the beginning of the war.

German Author, J’Accuse; 445 p. Published anonymously in Switzerland, and attracted much attention because of the independent standpoint of the
writer.

German Rulers, Out of Their Own Mouths. Utterances of statesmen, publicists, journalists, party leaders, officials, and business men, in regard
to German aims and war methods.

Graves, A. Karl, The Secrets of the Hohenzollerns. The author's book “Secrets of the German War Office” has been the
target of much criticism.

Hall, James Norman, Kitchener's Mob; 200 p. Vivid pictures of the way in which recruits in Kitchener's volunteer army were
whipped into fighting form and put at the service of the British general headquarters.

Hankey, Donald W. A., A Student in Arms, and A Student in Arms, Second Series. The two books comprise thirty-five
sketches by a member of Kitchener’s mob, showing a soldier’s attitude toward life at the front, the officers, the Church,
etc. The last named has a sketch of the author's life and death by his sister.

Huard, Mme. Frances, My Home in the Field of Honor; 302 p. A vivid account of an American woman’s experiences.
She lived sixty miles northeast of Paris, where she stayed helping the refugees, till forced to leave.

Hueffer, Lord Madox, When Blood Is Their Argument; 343 p. An analysis of Prussian culture.

Masefield, John, Gallipoli; 245 p. The author considers the Dardanelles campaign, not as a tragedy, not a mistake, but as
a great human effort, which came, more than once, very near to triumph, achieved the impossible many times, and failed
in the end, as many great deeds of arms have failed, from something which had nothing to do with arms
nor with men who bore them.

Muir, Ramsay, Nationalism and Internationalism; 290 p.; and The Expansion of Europe, Paper. The two form a survey of the
development of the main political factors in...modern history. Northcliffe, Lord; 280 p.; Northcliffe’s War Book (Paper), is an enlarged edition
of “At the War,” with chapters on America at War. Parker, Gilbert, The World in the Crucible: 408 p. An
account of the origins and conduct of the great war. Powers, H. H., The Things Men Fight For. Written in
the second year of the war. Purinton, Edward Earl: 48 p.; The Prepared. It is an appeal something after the
order of “The Message to Garcia,” built around a brief recital of the Verdun assault and the wonderful defense of
General Petain. Seeger, Alan, Poems: 174 p. Collected poems of the American poet who died fighting in the French Foreign
Legion. Seeger, Allan, Letters and Diary; 218 p. “Interesting from a literary point of view and as a revelation of
a young, promising, intense nature responding to the demands of active work in the war and giving his life for
his faith in the cause.” Service, Robert William, Rhymes of a Red Cross Man. War poems, many of which depict
the horror and awfulness of war, and many its glory and honor. Some are in Irish and some in Scotch
dialect. Slayden, Douglas (and Maurice Low), The Real Truth About Germany; 282 p. A refutation from the English point of
view of the pamphlet “The Truth About Germany.” Ward, Mrs. Mary Augusta, England's Effort; 176 p. In a series of
letters, the author tries to prove to friends in America that England “has done all she could, has put forth
efforts worthy of her history and of her great traditions.” Wells, Herbert George, Mr. Britling Sees It Through; 443 p.
“This story is essentially the history of the opening and of the realization of the Great War as it happened
to one small group of people in Essex and more particularly as it happened to one human brain.” Wilson, Woodrow,
Why We Are At War; 79 p. Messages sent to Congress and the Senate by President Wilson on January 22,
February 3, February 26, and April 2. The President's proclamation of war April 6, 1917, and the message to the
American people, April 15, 1917.

LIBRARY PRESENTED WITH BRONZE MEDAL

Union Library has been presented with one of the bronze medals issued by the joint committee of the Lutheran Church
to commemorate the Quadri-Centennial of the Reformation, 1517-1917. One side of the medal bears a bust bas-relief of Martin Luther
with the inscription, “Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott.” The other side shows him nailing his Theses on the church
door, with an open Bible placed just above his head. The medal is three inches in diameter and is a
beautiful and tasteful bit of workmanship.

The Service for the Discriminating Student

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South's Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. A. THAMES, . . . Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s Complete Line of
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

College Men’s Suits, Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices
GILBERT & MADDREY
DRY CLEANING AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
Chestnut St. Philadelphia
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Petts, College Agent, 26 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
You are cordially invited to inspect our premises
Doing more Work
Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson shop in North Carolina

Students Faculty
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
17 Years at the Same Place
