The Davidsonian, November 13, 1918

HONOR ROLL.

Five new names came in Honor Roll this week:
- T. H. Caine, ex-’13. Bat. C, 1st Reg. F. A. R. D., Camp Jackson, S.C.
- H. G. Bedinger, ‘11, chaplain, France.
- J. D. Davis, ex-’17, corporal, 6th Anti Aircraft Battery, C. A. C.
- L. P. Smith, ex-’18, France.
- Lieut. D. L. Watson, ex-’13, France.

Registrations with American University Union (from September 18-October 17, 1918):
- Cpl. U.S. Alexander, 318 F. A.
- S. M. Crisp, Jr., ’16, Co. Chief Sig. Officer.
- Cpl. J. D. Davis, ex-’17, 6th Anti Aircraft Battery C. A. C.
- Maj. J. W. MacConnell, ‘07, Base Hospital 60, A. P. O. 731.
- Lieut. W. W. Morton, ‘09, Chaplain A. P. O. 791.
- J. W. Thompson, Jr. '10, 371st Inf. Secteur Postal 229.
- Sgt. A. W. White, ‘12, Base Hospital 41, A. P. O. 702.
- Capt. P. Williams, ‘93, Board of Contracts and Adj., A. P. O. 702.

DIRECTORY OF COLLEGE MEN IN CHAMBERS

The following list gives the names and room numbers of the non S. A. T. C. students:
- N. P. Baga, Power House.
- J. P. Banner, 41 Chambers.
- B. H. Boyd, 83 Chambers.
- C. K. Brown, 11 Chambers.
- W. P. Cumming, 20 Chambers.
- J. M. Dunlap, 1 Chambers.
- A. F. Fuscue, 69 Chambers.
- W. F. Hall, 54 Chambers.
- G. Harrington, Dr. Grey's.
- R. W. Holmes, 51 Chambers.
- J. M. Keith, 48 Chambers.
- C. M. McCaskill, 47 Chambers.
- J. A. McCrarey, 51 Chambers.
- J. M. McFadden, 68 Chambers.
- J. H. McKeithen, 48 Chambers.
- T. F. Martin, 84 Chambers.
- F. E. Miller, 49 Chambers.
- W. P. Nesbitt, 34 Chambers.
- J. L. Nisbett, 48 Chambers.
- R. Rankin, 83 Chambers.
- A. E. Rodgers, 46 Chambers.
- G. D. Sample, 49 Chambers.
- J. E. Sanders, 11 Chambers.
- S. L. Sanderson, 77 Chambers.
- G. A. Shaw, 50 Chambers.
- J. H. Spragins, 79 Chambers.
- S. D. Storey, 41 Chambers.

W. T. (“Monk”) Younger, ex-'19, is captain of the Base Hospital No. 41 (University of Virginia unit) football team. Week-end
games are being played in Paris with other units.

Rookie Sentinel (plainly nervous)—“Halt! Who goes there?”
Officer—“An officer of the Post.”
Rookie Sentinel—“Advance and be sterilized.”

MILITARY INSTRUCTION GIVEN BY NEW METHOD

Today is the day of the specialist. Everyone must learn some one thing well. So the drill here at Davidson
is following the plan of having each of the officers conduct a special phase of the military work.

Lieutenant Dwyer, the commander of Company A, has charge of the bayonet exercise and is putting the men through some
stiff drill in learning how to handle their rifles in bayonet combat. As the bayonets are without scabbards it was
deemed unwise to begin the instruction with unsheathed points. Lots of spirit is shown by the soldiers as they come
to the position of “Com, guard.” All are finding this class very interesting and are enjoying the diversion from close
order drill. Before long it is expected that the men will acquire the fighting attitude and learn to be skillful
with their points and parries.

Lieutenant Candler, “B's” company commander, is overseeing the close order drill, and under his supervision the companies are executing the
manual of arms in a snappy and precise manner. More and more are they becoming soldiers of military bearing with
regularity of pace and prompt obedience to commands.

Lieutenant Doverspike, the commander of Company C, is in charge of the setting-up exercise. By his instruction there are being
developed some fine specimens of physique. Muscles, long out of use, have been brought into play and are assuming the
appearance of real bumps of hard, pliable tissue. Some of the men still are unable to keep the cadence, but
their number is constantly decreasing.

The care and use of the rifle is being taught by Lieutenant Sullivan, the rifle instructor. If Davidsonian readers could
have a glimpse of the squads as they bump their bruised shoulders and wear out their arms in learning how
to handle their pieces in firing, what a treat they would have! Position and aiming drills are the program at
present. Much remains to be learned before good shooting is to be developed, however.

Lieutenant McCormick, the adjutant, has the command of Company D, and under him this group is attaining efficiency in their
close order drill. The companies follow a schedule each day and thus are given instruction for twenty-five minute periods by
each officer. The company commanders have reserved fifteen minutes besides in which to be with their respective companies for any
purpose they desire. Under this new method Davidson will rapidly become a military unit of considerable strength and efficiency.

News was recently received by Mr. Robert Mayfield that his son, Harry Mayfield, ex-’17, was gassed and is now in
a hospital in France. It was stated that his injuries were very slight.

GLEE CLUB CONCERT WAS A GREAT SUCCESS

The Glee Club concert last Saturday evening at 8 o'clock drew a large crowd to Shearer Hall, and, coming as
it did, after the football game, wasvery much a success. The program rendered was a delightful one and furnished much
entertainment for its hearers. The concert was started with “The Marseillaise” by the club, the audience standing while it was
being sung. Well appropriate it was at this time of great rejoicing and closer union among the Allies. This was
followed by a clarinet solo, “La Paloma,” by Thompson, with piano accompaniment by Tremain. Much applause was accorded. The quartet,
composed of Belk, first tenor; Morgan, second tenor; Shields, first bass; McGeachy, second bass, acquitted itself remarkably well and in
a way which marked the men as masters. “O Davidson,” a naval Davidson song rendered by the club, created much
applause, captivating the spirit of the audience. Mention must be made of the accompaniment of Shields and Tremain, alternately, at
the piano, for they handled themselves like veteran musicians. The entertainment was interspersed throughout by favorite snatches of army life,
and the “you got to get up, you got to get up, you got to get up this morning” elicited
smiles from even the commanding officer.

Perhaps the farce of Cathey, the comedian, was the hit of the evening. As “black as an ace of spades”
he was, and his coming on the stage with a dilapidated mandolin case from which he drew several bottles of
yellow medicine, a glass, and a spoon, created the thought that a darkey herb doctor was in our midst. But
not long did this surmise endure, for he immediately produced a harp, and placing half in his mouth, then, after
“getting the tune” and placing the other half in the glass, set forth on music bent. The resulting “tune” was
a pious hymn and a medley of darkey songs; after which he withdrew with a parting “jig” dance and a
shuffle of feet which would turn a minstrel so green with envy that one would think him a chameleon. But
not so fast, “Mr.” Cathey. The “darkey” was not to escape so easily. The applause was nearly deafening and the
instigator’s grace so bewitching as to ignite the risibles of the audience to high pitch. So after two faithful encores,
“Mr.” Cathey withdrew, never to return as a “jig” dancer, much to his hearers’ unfeigned disappointment.

The fame of “Mr.” Cathey as “darkey” was rivaled by a mock sermon by Shields. This farce and side-splitting monologue
was too indelibly impressed into the minds of those present to warrant repetition here. Suffice it to say, however, that
this delivery was noisily applauded and took well. The deviation from the ridiculous to the sober came with the rendering
of “Recessional” by the club. This beautiful song was sung with much devoutness and was received in awe and sublimity
from the first to the last note. There was also a mandolin and guitar trio by Shields, Inman, and McQueen,
which called for three encores, the last one being “Over There,” rendered vividly, and could Geo. M. Cohan have heard
it, he would have been glad that he was its writer. The club deserves much credit for this, their first
concert, and each member acquitted himself admirably. All in all, the audience was treated with a most enjoyable entertainment, well
worth the small admission fee.

The program was as follows:
Marseillaise Hymn (Rouget de Lisle) — Entire Club.
La Paloma (Clarinet Solo) — F. M. Thompson.
O Davidson (Shields) — Entire Club.
Where the Morning Glories Grow — Quartet: Belk, Morgan, Shields, McGeachy.
Send Me a Rose From Homeland (Solo) — F. N. Morgan.
Intermission.
Smiles (Mandolins and guitar) — Shields, Inman, McQueen.
Recessional — (Kipling).
Character Dancing — Cathey.
We'll Build a Rainbow in the Sky — Choate and Entire Chorus.
O Moon of the Summer Night — Quartet: Belk, Morgan, Shields, McGeachy.
Negro Sermon — B. F. Shields.
Belgian Rose — Quartet and Morgan and Entire Chorus.
Finale.

THE UNIFORMS!
Rumor has succeeded rumor to the effect that the uniforms had arrived. The majority of them were started by the
man who talks to the janitor on the cupola every night at midnight. These were furthered by Sam Brady with
the assistance of his associates in crime. These rumors have always received wide attention, being repeated many times, but with
all that there are no uniforms here yet. The Davidsonian does not print things merely on rumor, so one of
its reporters was sent to interview Lieutenant Dennard and find out, if possible, the whys and wherefores. The lieutenant announced
that the uniforms had been shipped ten days ago, but that so far he had not heard anything more of
them.

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH CLASS SHOES?
A Complete Line of Military Shoes
Gilmer - Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
Barnette, Assistant Cashier
