Vol. V. Food Raisers Are Not Exempt From Exams. Those Who Follow the Plow Will Not Leave Early. To those
who may have entertained hopes of leaving college early this spring DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 17, 1918. No.
27 Baseball News News and Happenings of the Week in Town Second Intercollegiate Debate Friday Night Social and Personal Items
About Roanoke College Is Antagonist-- the Town People. Held In Shearer Hall. Mr. Gregg Caldwell, of the Ordnance Department, returned
home last be held on Friday, April 19, in Shearer THE WOFFORD GAME. Davidson lost to Wofford on the latter’s
grounds Tuesday, April 9, by the rather heavy score of 8 to 1. The “Wildcats” outhit their opponents, but a
muddy field, as well as cold weather, caused the team to play one of the raggedest games of the year.
to farm, there is a disappointment in store. Dr. Martin in a recent letter to the Government asked their advice
concerning this matter. As yet he has received no reply. Consequently, this college, with the other colleges of the country,
will take no further action unless new conditions arise that would warrant such a course. Last year “The Farmer Boys”
were permitted to leave college to farm because our country had just declared war and was in a state of
turmoil and excitement, but now that conditions have become more normal and business has settled down to its usual routine,
the faculty does not deem it worth while to break into the college term by permitting a part of the
student body to go home before examinations. LAST CHANCE FOR WOULD-BE MAGAZINE CONTRIBUTORS Despite the fact that the Fresh-Soph issue
of the Magazine has not as yet come from the press, preparations are under way for the last, and what
the staff hopes will be the best issue. Some material has been left over from the preceding issue emanating from
the pens of ambitious Freshmen and Sophomores, and to this there are being added one or two articles of more
merit by the upper classmen. The editor is contemplating having a Collection of Student Poetry grace the last issue if
there is enough forthcoming, and hence it is to the poets, near-poets, and free verse writers that he would now
appeal. On the outskirts of one of our prosperous Southern towns (of about 5,000 population) there stands a store bearing
this inscription, “Your Last Chance.” Without encroaching on the trade-mark of this worthy mercantile enterprise, the editor would call to
the attention of those kind and well-meaning young gentlemen who all the year have “intended to work up something for
the Magazine,” that the next issue is their last chance. It will be necessary that all material be in by
May 1. DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM TO MEET SOUTHERN COLLEGES Manager Grey has just completed arrangements with Georgia Tech for a
track meet in Atlanta on Saturday, April 20. This is to be a grand meet of colleges and universities in
Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, a half dozen schools participating. That this will be a really big meet is evident from
the fact that track is a far more popular branch of athletics in these schools than in the Carolinas. The
team leaves on Friday night, and will be composed of Grey, Crouch, Finley, Brand, and McQueen. Here's hoping they bring
off the honors for old Presbyterians. Currie pitched good ball in spite of ragged support, for the first seven innings.
many runs, The hitting of Boswell and Hengeveld featured for Davidson. The score: R. H. E. Davidson .....000 001 000—1
9 9 Wofford .....020 000 132—8 8 3 Batteries: Currie and Burns; Purds and Rivers. DIAMOND DIPS. Verriers” when we
play them Sprunt field later in the season. things up. The first game on the Hill will be played Friday,
April 19. We are expecting a good game. have triumphed over the “Tigers” football and basketball. music!” Let's not forget
the biggest game of the season Saturday at Gastonia. “Farmers” C. yells. course, just as he did last year. We
hope, however, that the game will be close enough to stir up some excitement. What little dose we handed them
last year was too much like a walk-over. Rufus Clarke came out of the infirmary Monday and is back in
shape. tanburg on account of illness. The other sick and crippled members of the squad are entirely well again. Coach
will send either Clarke or Currie against Clemson Friday, as “the Dutchman” will more than likely be held in reserve
for A. & E. On to Gastonia!!! BATTING AVERAGES TO DATE, A HE FACT. Hengeveld .. 35 13 .371 Burns
... 30 8 .266 Currie 12 3 .250 Spann .. 35 8 .228 Clarke .. 24 5 .208 Flowers ..
31 6 .193 Miley .. 25 4 .160 Cassell .. 25 4 .160 King .. 6 0 .000 Sullivan... 2
0 .000 LOOKING BACKWARD. Charlotte Observer, April 4, 1908: Many people from out-of-town are expected to witness the A. &
M-Davidson baseball game this afternoon. The battle promisesto be a royal one. No less than nine errors were chalked against
them. In the eighth and ninth, however, he was found for five hits and as a result, we will get
another chance at those on. We ought to have little difficulty in evening the score. The “Wildcats” have quite a
ball club this year, and it behooves as many of us as can to go down and follow the leading
of “Amo” Love in some of those old D. “Dutch” will beat them, of course. He was forced to leave
the team in Spartanburg last week to recover from an automobile accident.

Miss Mary Young has recently returned from the wedding of her cousin, Burton Smith, in Richmond, Va. Mrs. W. F.
Martin was called to Fayetteville, N.C. last week by the illness of her mother, Mrs. Yardell. Mrs. J. M. McConnell
is in Charlottesville, Va. on a visit this week. Miss Peggie Woolsey, of New York City, is visiting at the
home of Mrs. Hall. Professor Reed left to spend the week-end in Columbia, S.C. Prof. H. B. Overcash spent the
weekend at his home in Statesville, N.C. Little Ernest Bohannon, who has been ill with pneumonia at the home of
his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Sloan, is thought to be very much better. President Martin made a brief
visit to Monroe last week and was accompanied home by Rev. Dr. Vardell, of Flora Macdonald College. Miss Neomi Fithian,
of Haddonfield, N.J., is visiting Professor and Mrs. A. Currie. Miss Frances C. Smith, of Farmville, Va., is the guest
of her aunt, Mrs. N. G. Smith. Dr. Richards preached in Maysville, S.C., on Sunday. Mrs. M. G. Filton has
returned from Kentucky. Dr. J. B. Woods, who has been on a visit to his sons in college, has returned
to Richmond, Va. The friends of Major and Mrs. McConnell were glad to see them in their home for a
few days. Mrs. McConnell will remain here a short time before joining the Major at Camp Jackson. Misses Mildred Johnson,
Mary Richards, and Kathryn Worth, after spending the Easter vacation with their parents, have returned to Converse College. Miss Ellinwood
gave a party in honor of her niece, Miss Woolsey, last Thursday night. Numerous games were played and a salad
course was served, which was enjoyed by all. Those present were Misses Grey, Miley, Kathryn and Frances Worth, and the
honoree, Miss Woolsey; Messrs. Fowle, Humphrey, Angle, Allen, L. M. Currie, Captain Lea, and Professor and Mrs. Woods.

The subject for debate is, "Resolved, That the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all interstate railways." The affirmative
will be upheld by R. W. Cousar and G. C. Bellingrath, the negative by Messrs. Plum and Painter, of Roanoke.
Our debaters have been faithfully working for five weeks. They have a wealth of eloquence and well-chosen material. Their forensic
skill has been gaining momentum and is now ready to burst forth into a flower of oratory. The hours of
unremitting toil spent in preparing this debate will be consummated next Friday evening when Davidson's representatives will nobly uphold the
worthy debating reputation gained in years past. Davidson's spacious and beautiful forum, Shearer Hall, will, no doubt, resound with wonderful
oratory and the rafters will re-echo with the clash of arguments. The question of the railroads is an old one,
and yet, because it has been brought to our attention very forcibly within recent months, we are vitally interested in
the railroads as a necessary part of our national life. Our well-being as a progressive nation, in peace and in
war, is to a very large extent dependent upon our common carriers. Our other debating team defeated Lafayette College in
Greensboro on March 22. With such a record, and with such an interesting question for discussion, it is hoped that
a very large attendance will be present to hear the debate.

UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS

The United States Government is in urgent need of thousands of typewriter operators and stenographers. It is the manifest duty
of citizens with this special training to use it at this time where it will be of most value to
the Government. Examinations are held every Tuesday in Charlotte and applications may be filled out at any time. For full
information address the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C.

EVENTS OF THE WEEK

Thursday, April 18
* Afternoon—Tennis Tournament.
* Night—Y. M. C. A. Speaker from Camp Greene.

Friday, April 19
* Afternoon—Tennis Tournament.
* Baseball: Clemson vs. Davidson, Sprunt Field; game called 3:30 p.m.
* Night—Debate: Davidson College vs. Roanoke College, 8:00 p.m., Shearer Hall.

Saturday, April 20
* Afternoon—Tennis Tournament.
* Baseball: N. C. State College vs. Davidson, Loray Park, Gastonia, N.C.; game called 3:30 p.m.
