THEDA DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 3, 1918. Vol. V.

Battalion Drill Hour Changed to Afternoon
Daylight Saving Causes Return to Old Regime.

Beginning Tuesday, April 2, drill was held in the afternoon instead of in the morning as was the custom for
the past month. This change was made necessary by the Daylight Saving Bill which went into effect at 2 o'clock
Sunday morning. The first call each afternoon is sounded at 5:10 p.m.; assembly at 5:15; recall will be sounded at
6:15. All those going out for baseball will be excused from drill during the baseball season. A list of these
names will be posted later. The supper hour has also been changed from 5:30 to 6:30 on Sundays, and from
6:30 to 7:00 during the week.

IMPROVEMENTS ON CAMPUS ABOUT GYM

While the subtle powers of nature are fitting the campus with the gay green coat of spring and other vesture
appropriate for the season, that part of the college ground which heretofore has been a sort of a backyard is
being beautified so as to correspond with and be a real part of the campus. The ground is now being
leveled and walks are being made. The matter of trees and shrubbery will be decided on later. The need of
such improvements was apparent as soon as the new gymnasium was finished, and plans were made to improve the grounds
to suit the building. The Senior class gift which will be placed on these grounds will also add to their
attractiveness. The gift is to be a flight of concrete steps descending from the terrace between Chambers building and the
new gymnasium, on each side of which there will be an electric light standard similar to those on the library
steps but somewhat larger. When all these improvements are made this hitherto uninviting region will be one of the most
attractive parts of the campus.

JOINT MEETING HELD ON LAST SUNDAY EVENING

The regular monthly joint meeting of the Christian Endeavor, Ministerial and Volunteer Bands was held in Shearer Hall at 7:20
o'clock last Sunday night. J. W. Clark led in the discussion of the subject, “Lessons from the Risen Christ’s Forty
Days.” He began with a warning to the church against any formal celebration of Easter. He said that we should
celebrate Easter every Sunday. This weekly celebration is important because the surety of the resurrection of Christ is the basis
of Christianity and constitutes the most fundamental difference between Christianity and other religions. The resurrection of Christ put the capstone
on the plan of salvation and places Christianity upon the basis of faith. A lack of response on the part
of the members was noticeable. Next Sunday is Consecration Sunday, and the subject is, “The Christian Duty and Privilege of
Bible Reading.”

Fresh-Soph Issue of Magazine Announced
Poems and Fiction by Fresh and Sophs to be Published.

The Fresh-Soph issue of the Davidson College Magazine has already gone to press and will be here within the next
few days. There is to be only one more number of the Magazine published this term, which will be sent
to press soon. The table of contents of the immediate issue is as follows:
- Of Travel, Wm. Love, '20.
- A Bit of Nerve (Story), H. C. Hamilton, '20.
- Is There a Fountain of Youth? D. R. Freeman, '20.
- The Riders, John Royals (Story), C. A. McGirt.
- Far Away and Long Ago (Story), G. A. Byrd, '20.
- Yaka (Story), W. C. Knight, '21.
- —?— (Poem), D. L. Mahood, '20.
- In Time of Peace (Poem), Wm. Love, '20.
- The Rising Moon (Poem), C. A. McGirt, '20.
- The Hun (Poem), H. C. Hamilton, '20.
- Proof (Poem), D. M. Chalmers, '20.
- In Armenia (Poem), D. W. Roberts, '20.
- Awake, Arise, My Fellow (Poem), D. W. Roberts, '20.
- Exchanges.
- Editorials.
- Odds and Ends.

FRANCE CHOSEN FOR STUDY BY BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB

The Book Lovers’ Club held its annual business meeting at Mrs. Ellenwood's on last Friday afternoon. The following are the
officers elected for the coming year: Mrs. Violet Currie, president; Mrs. Richards, vice-president, and Miss Julia Johnston, secretary. The program
for the coming year was also discussed. The subject chosen for study this year is France, its historical background and
its connections with the Allies. A special study is to be made of that part of it within the war
zone.

DAVIDSON-ROANOKE DEBATE ONLY TWO WEEKS OFF

On Friday night, April 19, in Shearer Hall, Davidson will debate with Roanoke College on the subject for debate: “Resolved,
That the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all interstate railroads.” Davidson has the affirmative side of this question,
and will be represented by G. C. Bellingrath and R. W. Cousar. The complete victory of our other team over
LaFayette College, at Greensboro, will be an added spur to Davidson representatives, and they may be expected to do credit
to themselves and the college.

“Guide left” came the order in clear tones. “Well, why don’t they go back and get him,” wondered Miss——.—Ex.

Mrs. P. B. Fetzer and Captain Fetzer spent Sunday in Concord.1. | played. Concert Company. The fifth and last entertainment
promoted by the Piedmont Lyceum Association took place last Saturday night. The Fridericks Concert Company will be remembered with pleasure
by all those who attended this number. Even those who were feeling blue, because they were not spending Easter at
home (and their name was legion) were cheered up by the performance. They forgot about “Her” new hat, which they
would not see, not to mention their new suit, which “She” would not see, from the moment the performers appeared.
Mr. Aage Fridericks, a masterful violinist, who has toured Denmark, Belgium, Austria, France, Russia, and England, held the audience spellbound
as he played. The rough-necks were hypnotized by his wizardry and those who know and appreciate music were fascinated by
his perfect artistry. Miss Spence's representation, given in costume, of an Indian Song Cycle, was enjoyed by all. It carried
a message and charm all its own. She sang, “Far Off I Hear the Lover's Flute,” “The Land of the
Sky-blue Water,” “The Lover's Flute Call,” and “The Moon Falls Low.” These were greatly enjoyed by the audience as was
proved by the continued applause. Appearing a second time she sang, “The Open Secret,” “The Little Irish Girl,” and “Love's
Old Sweet Song.” These also caused the college boys to send up an applause that made old Shearer Hall tremble.
Miss Ake, the accompanist, played “Rondo Capriccioso,” which was greatly enjoyed. Her work at the piano, from beginning to end,
was a success. Mr. Powell Hale, a perfect impersonator of old women and young boys, cannot be too highly praised
for his delightful performance. Among the selections given were, “The Pessimistic Aunt Nancy,” “If You Were a Dog Like Him,”
and “The Tramp's Story of Unwritten History.” This closes our Lyceum entertainments for this scholastic year. Let's give 15 Rahs
for our managers, Williamson and McDonald, for their good work for us this year.

DAVIDSON'S BANNER CLASS. Without making any real search to warrant the statement, it is to be assumed that the class
of 1869 is the banner class for scholarship. It was composed of twelve men, all A.B. men, and the average
for the class for the four years was 97.31. The lowest individual four-year average was 91.7. Among the living members
are: Rev. J. F. Cannon, D.D., St. Louis. Prof. A. R. Banks, of South Carolina. Rev. W. H. Davis, of
Pisgah Forest, N.C. Mr. F. B. McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. Mr. L. B. Hoffman, of Dallas, N.C. Rev. P. P. Winn,
of Florida.

SONIAN No. 25

Dr. J. B. Woods Talks At Y. M. C. A. Meeting Calls Attention to General Meaning of Word “Sport.” The
last meeting under the direction of the retiring Y. M. C. A. cabinet was held last Thursday evening. Dr. J.
B. Woods, who has been a medical missionary to Tsing-Kiang-Pu, China, since 1894, made an interesting talk on the subject,
“Being a Sport for Christ.” Opening his talk by calling attention to the general meaning of the word “sport,” Dr.
Woods called special attention to the meaning of the word in the popular sense such as is found in the
athletic world. He said a sport played the game according to the rules and put his heart into it. He
emphasized the fact that there was a need for every Christian to be a better Christian and for us all
to be “sports” for Christ. The retiring president, J. L. Fowle, introduced the newly elected president, G. Lilly, to the
association, and after speaking a few words of encouragement and wishing the incoming officers success, he closed the meeting with
prayer. The old and new cabinets met immediately after the meeting was dismissed.

CAMPUSISMS. C. M. Alexander, '21, is still in the infirmary. James Davis, a captain at Horner Military School, spent the
Easter holidays with his brother S. M. Davis, '18. John Hooker is out of the infirmary, where he has been
confined with grippe. W. P. Cumming has started a class in Jiu Jitsu which will last for six weeks. The
following men spent Easter off the Hill: H. Aiken, H. E. Apperson, I. A. Beatty, D. G. Caldwell, R. C.
Clontz, W. A. Cullum, A. C. Fairly, A. C. Finley, C. V. Garth, J. M. Gaston, C. L. Hall, S.
J. Hand, J. H. Hendricks, Q. W. and W. J. Huneycutt, A. M. Laman, G. Jones, W. B. Knox, E.
G. and A. V. Lilly, J. W. and I. B. McAllister, J. R. McKelden, I. B. McKeithan, L. Mackey, H.
H. Massey, C. Y. Matthews, R. P. Richardson, W. L. Roddey, J. B. Smith, P. C. Stone, J. A. Thames,
M. R. Wart, B. White, R. D. Hall, A. S. Potts, R. C. Garth.

T. H. Spence, '20, attended the Lyceum. R. T. L. Liston, '20, purchased a two-pound box of candy last Saturday
night. Miss Alice Hall, of Belmont, a sister of R. D. Hall, '19, visited the Hill Sunday afternoon. She was
accompanied by Misses Helen and Mary Fisher, of Concord, Miss Patton, of Concord, and Mr. George Fisher, of Concord.

Baseball News on Page 4
