The Davidsonian, January 23, 1918

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods..... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: J. R. Boulware, Jr., V. D. Johnson, W. C. Knight, J. C. Sanders, M. E. Edwards, and J. M. Gaston, Jr.

Subscription, $1.25 the Collegiate Year.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial

Are We Ultimately Patriotic?

To answer this question we must see what other allied powers are doing in an internal way. Then keep in mind what we have been called upon to do, and have we done it? Make the comparison between our sacrifice and that of England. Harry Lauder, a great and famous entertainer, says with his own pen that he has subscribed every single penny of his fortune, consisting of several million dollars, to the British War Loan. We have oversubscribed the two Liberty Loans and well that we did. It was patriotic. But who in America has made the sacrifice that Lauder made? It is true that it has not been necessary in the United States that one should go to such straits. But the great player has exhibited to the world the spirit of self-sacrifice, and he did it willingly. These little verses in lighter vein give a safe and sane interpretation of the devotion and sacrifice England is making:

“A Wail From England.”

My Tuesdays are meatless,
My Wednesdays are wheatless,
I'm getting more eatless each day.
My home it is heatless,
My bed it is sheetless,
They’re sent to the Y. M. C. A.
The barrooms are treatless,
The coffee is sweetless,
Each day I grow poorer and wiser,
My stockings are feetless,
My trousers are seatless,
My Soul! But I do hate the Kaiser!

Now in this regard how are we responding? Mr. Hoover, the National Food Administrator, has asked that we have a meatless day each week. Dr. Martin in a chapel talk has made this doubly impressive and positively urgent. It is true that we as students are not entirely responsible. The ladies of the homes in which we board vie with one another as to who can give the better board. They are going to give us meat before us every meal every day of the week. But we are continuing to eat our (H2S). If you go to some hotels on Tuesday morning for breakfast they will trot out December 25th turkey hash—and tell you that “This is meatless day here.” If it is imperative, which indeed it is, we should ask the managers of our respective houses to see that we adopt one meatless day each week, and one other day for wheat and sugarless occasions. This is a matter of grave import. If our government says do this, let’s do it. This is patriotic. Financially we have subscribed, and in many cases the sacrifice was appreciably nothing. It would not ultimately disrupt the sensuous nature to go without one of the concentrated foods one day during the week. Look into this matter.

The poet was evidently not considering a college campus like ours is in its present condition when he penned, “A thing of beauty is a joy forever.” The campus is besmirched with leaves which have long ago lost their luster and golden tinge. It needs the umbrella staff of Uncle Hiram, who went about gigging waste paper. Worst of all—it is being cut by little paths into little sectors—horribly ugly in their contour. If you were not at chapel Monday morning we will say that Dr. Martin has kindly requested that no one tread these paths.We do not say “Never walk on the campus.” But we urge that you do not walk in these newly-made paths. Also, let's keep our waste paper off the campus, soon to be so lovely and green.

COLLEGE TOPICS.

If you are interested in college life, its conditions and problems, we refer you to some current magazine articles. The first of these is Robert L. Kelly’s “The American College and the Great War,” appearing in the January Scribner's. This is a unique defense of the college, shown by the attitude college men are taking to hasten the vigorous prosecution of the war. It gives definite data in regard to the decrease of student bodies. This article is worth your while.

Another fine article is by a foreigner—M. E. Ravage, who has given American college men something to consider in “The Tired College Man,” in the January Century. He discusses the indigent lack of interest in the vital and stirring issues of the day and in the great movements of the past. This is spirited and arouses one to a fuller sense of duty and responsibility.

What is going to happen? There has been a change in chapel service. Patriotism is displacing conservatism in “My Country ‘Tis of Thee” takes the place of “Praise God From Whom All Blessings Flow.”

MRS. C. M. THOMPSON.

Many friends and students, especially among the older alumni, will learn with sorrow of the death on the afternoon of December 21, 1917, of Mrs. Carrie McGraw Thompson. Mrs. Thompson had lived in Davidson for 35 years, having moved here in November, 1882, from her home in Abbeville County, South Carolina. She was born in Holmes County, Mississippi, June 12, 1843, and after a few years in South Carolina moved to Davidson, where she has been respected by students and townspeople alike. She married Jno. N. Thompson, a prominent merchant here, who died January 21, 1892. Mrs. Thompson had not been very well for several days before her death, but on the night of December 20 she was taken by a sudden attack of bronchial pneumonia and died the next afternoon. She is survived by a son, Mr. W. N. Thompson, of Charlotte, and a daughter, Miss Hattie Thompson, of Davidson. Miss Hattie Thompson is well known to the students and townspeople. Her cousin, Miss Estelle Helper, of Nashville, Tenn., will make her home with her in Davidson.

Opening a fresh line of Groceries, Candies and Cigars in the Helper Building. Your Patronage Solicited.

J. F. CASHION & SON

Mr. Hugueley, of Danville, Ky., a brother of Mrs. M. G. Fulton, was seriously hurt by slipping on the ice a few days ago. Mrs. Fulton expects to go to him in a short time.

Miss Minnie Cranford is recuperating in Davidson after an operation at the Charlotte Sanatorium.

Germany does not keep us from delivering the best fresh meat. Phone orders solicited.

White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Go to Armour Bro.’s & Thompson's for Dr. Munsing’s Army Last Shoes. Either Black or Tan.

PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily. First Class Vaudeville. YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED.

FELLOWS! Be Patriotic. Patronize the Home Industry. Give your Shoe Work to the Davidson Shop. Work delivered within two days.

Say, Fellows! Buy your Furnishings at V. Wallace & Sons. They carry the best line in Charlotte.

SMITH, Agent
Best Material, Best Work, Best Price
Williamson & McDonald

K. JUSTICE
DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00.
Davidson, N. C., 1917-18.
2:00 to 4:00

Gentlemen: If you are pleased, tell others. If not, tell me.

Spalding Sweaters
Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. BROAD ST.
ATLANTA, GA.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

THE COMMISSARY