Vol. V. Close Scores Feature Games of Trip

THEDAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 6, 1918. No. 21

Junior Oratorical Exercises Prove Enjoyable Occasion

Baseball Schedule Is Announced

Won or Lost by Margin of Six Points in Every Case.

Excellent Weather Prevailed for First Time in Many Years—Clemson Defeated in Last Game of Season.

The Davidson basketball team was defeated in three out of its four games during the trip through eastern Carolina. In almost every case, the scores were close, and the games were only won in the last few minutes of play.

Greensboro—Spirit and fast work of both quints featured the contest in Greensboro on the 25th when Davidson lost the first game of the trip to Guilford by a score of 22 to 16. The big feature of the game was Guilford’s excellent teamwork. Hubbard and Ballenger starred for the Guilfordians, and King showed up well for the “Wildcats.” 

Line-up:
DAVIDSON. POSITION. GUILFORD.
H.W. Davenport. RF... Hubbard
King... LF... Jones
Romefelt... C... Groom
J. W. McAlister. RG... Newlin
P.C. McAskill. LG... Zachary

Substitutions: Ballenger for Hubbard; Hengeveld for Romefelt. Referee: Sharp, Greensboro Y. M. C. A.

Elon College—On Elon’s floor, the “Wildcats” took on their usual aggressiveness and defeated the home team to the tune of 29 to 23. The game was clean and interesting from start to finish and was hard-fought because of the balancing of the two teams.

Line-up:
DAVIDSON. POSITION. ELON.
Davenport... RF... Gray
King... LF... Martin
Hengeveld... C... Stephens
McAlister... RG... Tuck
McAskill... LG... Johnson

Substitutions: Preston for Martin.

Chapel Hill—In what is termed the most thrilling game played on the University floor this season, Davidson lost to the Carolina quint, 28 to 22. Davidson held the lead in the first half by her sure basket work. Carolina’s nervousness was overcome in the second half, and as she began to gain, Lynch starred for the University and won the game alone practically.

Line-up:
DAVIDSON. POSITION. U. N.C.
Davenport... LF... Carmichael
King... RF... Lynch
Hengeveld... C... Lippert
McAlister... LG... Cutherson
McAskill... RG... Tennett

Referee: Carrington.

Trinity—Davidson was forced to take the count in her last game on the trip when Trinity walked off with the big end of a 30 to 24 score. The game was a hard fight all the way through, and the score was repeatedly tied. Davidson led by the narrow margin of one goal five minutes before the last whistle, but the fast work of Cole and Starling enabled Trinity to register enough goals to win out.

Line-up:
DAVIDSON. POSITION. TRINITY.
King... RF... Cole
W.M. Hall... LF... Starling
Hengeveld... C... Douglas
L. C. McAskill... RG... Hathaway
J. W. McAlister... LG... Long

Substitutions: Saunders for Starling.

The Juniors winning “Reps” are:
PHI. EL.
W. M. Currie E. Flinn
R. B. Peters, Jr. A. S. Ports
Alternates: R. D. Hall P. B. Carwile

The Sleeping Giant can now go back to sleep. Womankind has departed from the campus, and there only remains the ideal ambition to camouflage through six tickets this spring.

Imperial Despotism has been treated with explosives, and the Problem of the City has been changed into the Problem of the Family. Junior Speaking has been spoken, and the spring oratorical conclave has passed into history. Junior Speaking began with Friendship and ended with Decisions, the principal decision being Never Again—until next year. Young Man, Go South, was indeed a good motto for the Juniors, and most of them did go south when it came to the oratorical exhibitions. They went south in a Pillar of Fire with the Originality of Omnipotence and backed all their declarations by the noble words of proof, W. S. S., which being translated, are “We Say So.”

“They Shall Not Pass” is a good motto in fighting Germans, but time and tide being of another breed, it was impossible even for the class of ‘19 to say of the days of Junior Speaking, “They Shall Not Pass.” Though it was impossible for them to prevent the passing of those days, it is a settled fact that they passed, and with the days have passed the many visitors who are now a scattered nation waiting for the call to hurry up to the next appearance of the Juniors as orators.

Not a stone was left unturned to provide the feast of eloquence, and Pebble, so famous already as the aid to Demosthenes, was much in evidence. Although he wore neither his Tuxedo nor his Prince Albert, and though he traveled neither by the modern aeronautical way of the Kite nor in the good old-fashioned way of the Brown Mule, yet he managed to put the Picnic Twist on his delivery. He gave us a Velvet oration, one mellowed by nature. He brought smiles on the face and gladness in the heart as he rapidly approached his climax, and when at last his supply of Bull Durham had run out, there was terrific applause.

After a careful consideration of the whole of Junior Speaking, we can but agree with the author of the War Beautiful. If war is beautiful, then there must be some good even in Junior Speaking.

CLEMSON DEFEATED.

Davidson wound up a very successful basketball season when she defeated the Clemson Tigers on the new Alumni Gym floor last Saturday, 37 to 22. The game was aFitting climax to a season which only unavoidable injuries and mishaps have kept from being a clean sweep, and was the most exciting part of the Junior Speaking program. Since it was Davidson scoring machine was a little off form, King not being able to cage the leather with his usual consistency, due no doubt to the presence of so many fair visitors in the gallery, but Hengeveld, the big blonde center, whom no feminine wiles can fluster, more than made up for the shortcomings of his teammates by tossing goals nonchalantly from all angles and positions. When he finally tired of making points, he had totaled 20 points, more than half Davidson's entire score. McAskill did good work at guard, breaking up several attempts at concerted assault on the basket by the Vipers. Clemson's passing proved a little troublesome to break up, but their aggressiveness got them nothing but the credit due to a scrappy loser. Hall played good ball on the floor, working the ball up to Hengeveld and King and adding a couple of markers himself. For the visitors, Colbert and Ford starred, Colbert's offense being about the only real basketball that the visitors showed. Bryant at center also played a good scoring game.

The season closed with this game, and Davidson hung up a record of seven won, four lost, out of eleven games, a record that the Wildcats can well be satisfied with, when the adverse circumstances under which the last trip was taken are considered. The line-up of Saturday's game:

DAVIDSON (37) POSITION CLEMSON (22)
King (11) .......... Schenk (2) Left Forward
Hall (4) .......... Watkins (5) Right Forward
Hengeveld (20) .......... Bryant (8) Center
McAlister (2) .......... Colbert (4) Right Guard
McAskill (0) .......... Robinson (0) Left Guard

Substitutions: Davenport (0) for Hall; Ford (3) for Watkins. Referee, Romefelt. Time, 20 minute halves.

CONCERT.

The Orchestra and Glee Club gave an excellent concert Saturday night before an unusually large and appreciative audience. The eighteen selections were well given, and brought forth much applause. The program began with “The Star Spangled Banner,” sung by the entire Glee Club, which was followed by “Over There,” played by the Orchestra. The quartet number “Camouflage,” was well rendered and called for several encores. Edgerton made his initial solo before a Davidson audience with “When the Great Red Dawn is Shining.” He gave as an encore “His Lullaby.” He was followed by the Mandolin Club, with an unlooked-for comedy number. J. L. Fowle sang “For You Alone” and “Wait Till the Cows Come Home,” both selections being greatly applauded. “It’s a Long Way to Berlin,” and “Your Flag and My Flag,” sung by the entire Glee Club, were especially enjoyed. This concert was made the occasion (Continued on page 6).

Davidson's baseball schedule this year will be comprehensive and complete. Thirteen games have been arranged by Manager Dafin and several others are pending. There will be at least four games on the Hill, with others in nearby cities. The schedule, at present, is as follows:

April 1—Lenoir College, at Hickory.
April 3—University of S. C., at Columbia (pending).
April 4—University of Ga., at Atlanta (pending).
April 5 and 6—Ga. Tech., at Atlanta.
April 8—Furman Uni., at Greenville.
April 9—Wofford, at Spartanburg.
April 10—Pres. College, at Clinton.
April 12—Uni. of Va., at Charlotte.
April 13—V. P. I., at Davidson (pending).
April 20—A. & E., at Charlotte.
April 22—Guilford, at Statesville or Davidson.
April 26—(pending).
April 27—University of S.C., at Davidson or Charlotte (pending).
April 30—Wofford, at Davidson.

A complete schedule will appear in the next Davidsonian.

FIELD PROBLEMS WORKED DURING DRILL HOUR.

The drill Tuesday and Wednesday, the 26th and 27th, was very interesting and quite a relief from the monotony of the regular close order drill. On Tuesday, Company “B” was the enemy who had entrenched themselves on the golf links. Company “A” sent out scouts, who located the enemy and brought the information back to headquarters. Captain Grey immediately set out to capture the enemy; but just as he was preparing to make the final charge, Captain Lea ordered assembly as he did not want any bloodshed. On Wednesday, things were reversed and Company “A” took up a position in a pine thicket behind trenches and barbed wire entanglements. It took the scouts of Company “B” some time to locate the enemy positions, but when they did, Captain Peters’ company came down on the enemy in good style. The scouts have not been able to do very effective work on account of the shortness of the time which necessitates haste; but everyone seemed to enter into the spirit of the affair and all went as if they were hunting Germans in No-Man's land. A signal squad of eight men has been practicing regularly for the past week and bids fair to soon be proficient enough for service in scouting work. Beginning today, the time of drill has been changed from the afternoon to the early morning. The first bell will ring at 6:15, allowing 15 minutes for dressing. The companies will fall in at 6:30 and drill till 7:30. This will allow 10 minutes for getting to chapel. By this plan, those trying out for baseball will have the whole afternoon in which to practice.