Ihe DAVIDSONIAN April 3, 1918

Red Cross News

FORUM

DRY CLEANING

The Hoover & Smith Co. High Grade Laundering

Editor of the Forum, The Davidsonian.

Hats Cleaned & Reblocked

Official Fraternity Jewelers

Dear Sir: In a late copy of your newspaper, I note an article on “That Horrid Bugle,” by a gentleman who calls himself “A Disciple of Morpheus.” In reply, I wish to say that while I have never objected to other people getting up and working, especially to get the men out to an early morning drill, I think it is impugning my loyalty and patriotism to say that I have ever instructed my disciples to deceive. Trusting that this explanation will relieve any unjust calumny, I am,

MORPHEUS HIMSELF.

The Charlotte Laundry

Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

BOOST THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION

RICHMOND, VA.

Fall Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies

For information, address:

The Miller-White Co. Drug Company

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

Fellows! Stand by The Flag.

The whole community contributed to a huge basket of flowers which was sent to the hospital at Camp Greene on Saturday to be distributed among the sick.

CASCO-2½ in. CLYDE-2½ in

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

A. S. Petts, College Agent, 20 Chambers

The call for help to complete our bandages, which was sent out last week, met with a ready response, and our goods were packed and delivered for shipment to headquarters on the 27th. The last week's work included the following: 30 scultettes; 50 abdominal bandages; 120 5-yard gauze rolled bandages; and a pair of socks. In order to speed up future work on bandages, two bandage rollers have been added to our equipment. The work room is to have two bulletin boards for the news.

At a recent meeting of representatives from all the Auxiliaries of the Charlotte Chapter, it was reported that our work room is the largest in the county; that it is doing a greater amount of work; and that it is the only work room doing surgical bandages. This should make us feel a burden of responsibility as well as pride in our work, and be a stimulus to greater effort.

The Commissary and the working force has had a holiday for several days. However, the work room will be opened again as soon as transportation difficulties are resolved.

W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
Union Theological Seminary

Brady Printing Co.
616 Chestnut St. Philadelphia

LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

Special Attention to Davidson Mensuch protest as he has done. Supplies are received. Watch the bul- have attached to my name by the action of Chapter, it was found that our branch —When in Mooresville Visit— In many a secluded dressings. Between Charlotte and Ashe- grateful that we can serve in this way. A BIG IMPROVEMENT Take keen soldiers on Easter morning. FOR SPRING Better Work dea And how it waves today. 17 Years at the Same Place In your land and my land. And, half a world away. Statesville, North Carolina Drop in at the College: Rose red and blood red. PRINTERS Quality Store The stripes forever gleam, Furnishings Snow white and soul white, If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it. Furniture Sky blue and true blue, Stars to gleam aright. AT THE COMMISSARY The gloried guidon of the day. Our Representatives at the College A shelter through the night. Your flag and my flag. Your land and my land, Sacred within its folds. Your heart and my heart, Beat quicker at the sight. Sun kissed and wind tossed, Red and Blue and White Let the Shu-Fixery Fix Em. C. McDonald A NEW STYLE FOR FALL AND WINTER 20c EACH 3 FOR 50c 12 FOR $2 Selected. Oldest Brand in America AMERICA IS AHEAD, UNITED SHIRT & COLLAR CO., TROY, N.Y. For Fresh Meats Call WHITE'S, NORTH CAROLINA America is ahead of England in her sales of War Savings Stamps, but North Carolina is not yet at the top of the list of the States. As a matter of fact, she has been at the bottom, but we believe when the next count is made, she will be occupying a more respectable seat. Special BASEBALL SHOE Spring Shirts and Neckwear Lion, Belk and Maryland Madras Shirts, 98c, $1.25, $1.50, made of selected leather. $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00. Silk Shirts, $6.00, $5.00, $3.95, $3.50 and $2.95. Stetson, No Name and Belk Hats, new shapes and colors, $2.50 to $6.00. Silk Neckwear, 25c, 50c, 75c and 98c. There's one man on the campus who’s wise—he carries an Ingersoll for the bell time and a watch for the correct time. Mention THE Davidsonian. —Ex. Patronize Our Advertisers. 74 N. Broad St., Atlanta, Ga. Belk Brothers Charlotte