The DAVIDSONIAN. March 20, 1918

SCHEDULE

Debate—Saturday, March 23: Resolved, That a constitutional amendment should be adopted giving Congress exclusive power to regulate marriage and divorce
in the United States.

Eumenean — Affirmative: McCloy, Potts, C. B. Robson. Negative: Allen, Thomas, E. A. Woods. Orations: Cousar, Bellingrath.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Fowle, W. C. Hodgin. Negative: E. G. Lilly, Clontz. Oration: Howell. Declamation: Freeman. Extemporaneous—Affirmative: Stogner. Negative: Roberts.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATERS HAVE BEEN CHOSEN

It is regretted that by some misfortune the account of the Fresh-Soph debating preliminaries was unintentionally omitted last week. The
subject debated was, “Resolved, That suffrage should be granted to women by an amendment to the United States Constitution.”

In the Eu Society, T. S. Burgess, A. M. Mitchell, J. C. McCaskill, Wm. Love, C. A. McGirt, C. J.
Matthews, and J. R. Boulware were on the affirmative, while R. T. Liston and R. A. McPheeters upheld the negative.
The judges selected R. T. Liston, Wm. Love, and C. A. McGirt as the Eu team, with C. J. Matthews
as alternate.

In the Phi Society, those defending the affirmative were F. L. Knight, D. M. Chalmers, and D. W. Roberts. Those
on the negative were R. C. Clontz, C. N. Morrison, M. F. Edwards, and T. H. Spence. The debaters chosen
were R. C. Clontz, F. L. Knight, and D. M. Chalmers. They will defend the negative side of this question
in the inter-society debate which will be held in Shearer Hall on March 23, the Eu team upholding the affirmative.

R. S. WITHERINGTON WINS COMMISSION

The following account from the Charleston Evening Post gives some interesting news concerning R. S. Witherington, an old Davidson man:

“Many of the football fans who attended the games played by the naval training camp, as well as all Davidson
College supporters, will be glad to learn that R. S. Witherington, the fast halfback who was sent to the camp
at the Navy Yard here after the football season started, and who played such a conspicuous part in the games
participated in by Coach Johnnie Weeks’ eleven, has won a commission as ensign in the Navy and is still on
duty in and about Charleston. He expects to leave here shortly, however.

“It was almost in the middle of the season when a young player with light hair trotted out on Hampton
Park with the naval training camp team in one of their games against the Navy Yard eleven. All saw at
once that the camp had gotten hold of a new man, but this was nothing startling, for new players were
being sent in every game, but this boy had the build of a football player and conducted himself like a
college man who has played the game before. It did not take long for the spectators to be assured that
Weeks had gotten hold of a star. He did all of the punting after that first game he took part
in, and sent the ball in long, high spirals consistently, getting the oval away safely. When he ran with the
ball he was like a streak of light and was hard to down. Another good part about his playing was
the fact that he was never taken out of a game on account of injuries or for any other reason
and proved to be the team's mainstay with Captain McKinnon of the backfield.

Witherington played with Davidson College team in 1914-1915-1916. During the past year, this Presbyterian college team in the mountains of
North Carolina went down to Atlanta and played the Georgia Tech Golden Tornado to a standstill and proved to be
theonly team in the country to be successful in scoring on the mighty Heismann machine. Many who saw the game
thought that something awful would have happened to the Georgia team had the North Carolinians been blessed with weight. That
was the kind of team Witherington played with before he left college to join Uncle Sam's Navy and do his
part with the other young men of the country. If he had not left his college studies, Witherington would have
played in the backfield with the phenom, Flowers, and his brilliant partner, Spann. He has many friends at the Charleston
Navy Yard who have congratulated him upon his success and wish him the best of luck.”

M. R. Bernhardt, ex-'20, was on the Hill Monday.

Laundry! Shoe Repairing!
When Pleased Tell Others
When Dissatisfied Tell Me
M. E. Edwards, 22 Chambers

A Christian home with firm discipline. Men teachers of ability and character. Individual attention to pupils. Average class not over
ten. Methods of study taught. Prepares for best colleges. Bible read and taught in the school. Honor System works here.

See Our Florsheim Dress Shoes
Also ARMY Shoes
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

THE McCALLIE SCHOOL FOR BOYS
On Battlefield of Missionary Ridge, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Founded by REV. T. H. McCALLIE, D.D.

POINTS OF EMPHASIS
FOR ATTRACTIVE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE APPLY
J. S. J. McCALLIE, M.A.
J. P. McCALLIE, M.A., Ph.D., Univ. of Va.

TO MY SON.
Presbyterian Theological Seminary Kentucky
Full staff of Professors. Curriculum modern and comprehensive, with practical training. Unusually good Library facilities. Comfortable dormitories and home life
for students. Write the President
Charles R. Hemphill

“Do you know that your soul is of my soul, such part
That you seem to be fiber and core of my heart?
None other can pain me as you, dear, can do;
None other can please me or praise as you.
Remember the world will be quick with its blame.
If shadow or stain ever darken your name;
‘Like mother, like son,’ is a saying so true,
The world will judge largely of mother by you.
Be yours then the task, if task it shall be,
To force the proud world to do homage to me;
Be sure it will say when its verdict you've won,
‘She reaped as she sowed,’ lo, this is her son.”
—Griffin.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING
Phone 69-J

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

If It's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want
Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See H. L. WASHAM

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

PRINTING
Beautiful location among mountains. Nearly 1,000 feet above sea. Forty acres in country, with lake. Careful protection against fire. Use
of tobacco not allowed. Military Department. Students in Headmaster's home. Excellent fare and good water.

The kind that imparts a distinctive appearance to business stationery. Let us do your printing, engraving, etc., and thereby do
our bit toward putting your Letter Heads, Bill Heads, Envelopes, Cards, etc., in condition to attract business.

Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina
“EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE”

O. J. Thies, Jr., Davidson Representative
