Red Cross News

Since our last report, the Red Cross workroom has been open six afternoons. There have been 134 workers present. Mrs.
Archie Brown and Mrs. Walter Sloan lead the honor roll for punctuality and attendance. The workers have all been remarkably
diligent and untiring in their efforts to fill an order for the Charlotte workroom, which is closed on account of
quarantine. There was a great deal of laborious cutting and stitching connected with the work. The following articles were finished
and shipped on Friday: seventy scultetus bandages, 50 pneumonia braces, 50 irrigation pads, 5 operating shirts, and 7 pairs of
bed socks. Some knitted articles turned in are reserved for a future shipment. A great many of the workers have
provided themselves with the regulation uniform, a large white apron, and a white “veil.” The directors of the workroom, Mrs.
Martin and Miss Frances Worth, wear the dark blue veils. Mrs. Archie Brown and Miss Madge Potts, assistant directors of
work, wear the gray veils.

There have been several valuable contributions to the workroom. Mr. Hill has provided a cutting table, which adds greatly to
the comfort of the cutters. Mr. George Hudson lent a large chiffonier. Mrs. Sloan, Sr., contributed a feather pillow. We
also thank a kind gentleman for having our bulletin boards framed. We hope next week to have occasion to thank
someone for providing us with a means of hanging coats and hats in the workroom. “Verbum sap.”

Our chapter is most fortunate in having Miss Frances Worth as superintendent of surgical dressings. Miss Worth won her certificate
in Washington, D. C., and without her “certified” assistance we would not be permitted to do the kind of work
we are engaged in.

“Ds” ARE AWARDED BY DR. J. M. McCONNELL

The following is a list of the “Ds” awarded in chapel last Monday by Dr. J. M. McConnell:

Baseball monograms:
S. R. Keesler, D and two stars.
A. P. Saunders, D and two stars.
F. W. Hengeveld, D and two stars.
T. M. Black, D and two stars.
W. D. Lawson, D and two stars.
A. C. Wood, D and two stars.
Z. V. McMillan, D and one star.
I. M. Johnston, D and one star.
J. R. Boswell, D (no stars).
A. R. Flowers, D (no stars).
J. B. Pharr, D (no stars).

Track monograms:
G. S. Crouch, D and two stars.
L. C. Brand, D and one star.
H. M. Grey, D and one star.
J. E. McQueen, D (no stars).
W. C. Worth, D (no stars).
A. C. Finley, D (no stars).
W. F. Mattison, D (no stars).
L. K. Boggs, D (no stars).

Basketball monograms:
A. B. Reese, D and three stars.
F. W. Hengeveld, D and two stars.
R. B. Walker, D and two stars.
G. M. King, D and one star.
A. C. Wood, D and one star.
E. P. Childs, D (no stars).

CAR OF COAL RECEIVED

The fond hopes that college would have to be closed on account of a lack of coal have been crushed.
One carload of coal has been received and another is expected any day. The efficiency of our business manager and
treasurer has been shown again in this way.

The DAVIDSONIAN
February 6, 1918

TWENTY-TWO MEN

A short time ago, three leading men spoke at the men’s meeting in Cleveland on the subject, “Things I Wish
I Had Known Before I Was Twenty-one.” G. Leonard Fels, the first speaker, gave answers sent in by twenty-two men.
Here they are. Every word is worth reading:

I wish I had known:
1. What I was going to do for a living—what my lifework would be.
2. That my health after thirty depended, in a large degree, on what I ate before I was twenty-one.
3. How to take care of my money.
4. The commercial asset of being neatly and sensibly dressed.
5. That a man’s habits are mighty hard to change after he is twenty-one.
6. That a harvest depends upon the seed sown—what produces wheat, thistles bring.forth cthistles, ragweeds will spoil a good pasture,
and wild oats once sown will surely produce all kinds of misery and unhappiness.

7. That things worth while require time, patience and work.
8. That you can't get something for nothing.
9. That the world would give me just about what I deserved.
10. That by the sweat of my brow would I earn my bread.
11. That a thorough education not only pays better wages than hard labor, but it brings the best of everything
else, namely, more enjoyable work, better food, more of the wholesome luxuries and pleasures of life, better folks to live
and deal with, and best of all, the genuine satisfaction that you are somebody worthy of respect, confidence, and the
priceless gift of friendship.
12. That honesty is the best policy, not only in dealing with my neighbors, but also in dealing with myself
and my God.
13. The value of absolute truthfulness in everything.
14. The folly of not taking other people's advice.
15. That everything which my mother wanted me to do was right.
16. That father wasn't so old-fogy after all; if I had done as he wished me to do, I would
be very much better off physically, mentally, and morally.
17. What it really meant to father and mother to raise their son.
18. What hardships and disappointments would be entailed by my leaving home against my parents’ wishes.
19. More of the helpful and inspiring parts of the Bible—particularly the four books dealing with the life of Christ.
20. The greatness of the opportunity and joy of serving a fellowman.
21. That Jesus Christ is with me as an elder brother and friend in every activity and relationship of life.
22. That God's relationship to me is just as helpful and delightful as that of a good shepherd toward his
sheep, or a father toward his son.

—Tennessee Christian.

BIOLOGY LAB. MOVED.

The biology laboratory has been moved from the infirmary to the old Y. M. C. A. Social Center, in Morrison
Memorial Hall. The new place is much better for the work than the old one. The director says that running
water will be installed in a few weeks and many improvements made over the old place. The change was made
in order to have room at the infirmary for the increase in patients caused by an invasion of “German” measles.

To say “I'll try” is good intent And maybe fills the bill, But he who makes the most in life
Is apt to say, “I will.”

Clearance Sale, All Men’s and Boys’ Overcoats Buy Now and Save Money Belk Bros. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DRY CLEANING High Grade Laundering Hats Cleaned & Reblocked The Charlotte Laundry 444 S. Church St. Oldest Largest Best The
Service for the Discriminating Student The Ben-Vonde Co. The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners 18, 20 and 22 W.
Fifth St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. S. A. THAMES, . . . Agent

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brady Printing Co. Statesville, North Carolina The College PRINTERS If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man
to Do it

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers Philadelphia A.S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address: W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. Principal

—When in Mooresville Visit— The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson Men

By Backing The Commissary Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

FOR Furnishings, Gents’ Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson

Faculty Students Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
