DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 13, 1918. No. 22

From the beginning of practice our basketball prospects looked good and results justified our expectations. Although Reese, Wood, Walker, and Childs, all stars of last year’s team, were lost to the team, with men like Hengeveld, King, and McAlister back, a good year was assured. McAskill stepped into the place left vacant by “Bob” Walker and played fine basketball through the entire season. “Dutch” Hengeveld, at center, was a sensation in most of the games. With King back at his old forward, the other forward was the only position left. The work in that corner was divided between Flowers, Davenport, and W. M. Hall, with Flowers “having an edge on the other two.”

The season opened with the trip through the Valley of Virginia. Preliminary games had been canceled so the first game of the season was in the Washington and Lee gym at Lexington. Davidson’s teamwork—particularly the work of Hengeveld—proved too much for the Generals, who were forced to take the count and Davidson hung up a 33-20 victory as a season starter. The Wildcats next met V. M. I. in Roanoke. The floor on which they played was too small for ten men to play at once, and this handicap and the work of Marshall and Leach for the Cadets cost Davidson a game. The Wildcats went wilder than ever when they met V. P. I. in Blacksburg. Captain King went worse than wild and caged up 15 field goals, while the whole Tech team could score but 20 points. Hengeveld scored heavily and the work of the guards was excellent. Roanoke and Winston-Salem “Y” fell before the drive of the Red and Black quint and the team returned to the Hill with four victories from five games.

After a week’s enforced rest, Guilford came to the Hill to try conclusions with the Wildcats. The spectators concluded that the game was too rough for real basketball and that good teamwork was noticeably absent; and Guilford concluded George King was entirely too fast for their aggregations. The final score was 37-24. Then followed another period of idleness and canceled games. About three weeks later the Carolina trip began. Hengeveld was crippled and the whole team in poor shape. Lack of ‘pep’ enabled Guilford to win out over us by six points. The old spirit revived and beat Elon, and then a slump and hard-luck game against Trinity and Carolina. The Carolina team was probably the best met during the season and their speed and aggressiveness earned their victory.

The season wound up like the football season—the victim in each case was Clemson. To give Clemson their just dues it must be said that their team lacked a night’s sleep and rest and so were not in good condition for a game. Nevertheless, they took a lead in the first few minutes of play, but were unable to maintain this lead. Hengeveld cut loose (Continued on page 6)

The above is a picture taken in February, 1911, of two among Davidson’s oldest alumni, Duncan A. and Daniel C. Buie, twins, born in 1833, and they have the distinction of being the oldest living Confederate twins. Since the war, Daniel C. Buie has been a farmer and justice of the peace, his brother following the same vocations and that of a surveyor as well. Not only were these men born on the same day, but they also have the distinction of being married on the same day, August 20, 1866. In 1916 both couples celebrated the golden anniversary of their wedding. The address of Mr. Duncan A. Buie is Red Springs, N.C., R. F. D. No. 6. The above picture has appeared in “The Confederate Veteran” and “Leslie’s Weekly” within recent years. Both Duncan A. and Daniel C. Buie matriculated at Davidson College in 1858, and remained here until the spring of their Junior year. In 1861, they left with many other of their college mates for the war, enlisting in the 40th North Carolina Heavy Artillery. They served throughout the war with distinction, both being promoted to the grade of sergeant.— Baseball Team is Rounding Into Shape

Prospects Are Good for Successful Season.

Baseball practice is now in full swing. About forty men in uniform are working down on Sprunt Field each afternoon. The diamond is being worked over and the field put in good condition. Captain Hengeveld, Flowers, "Pete" Saunders, and Boswell will be the nucleus of the team. "Pete" will, unfortunately, be unable to play, but his coaching and encouragement will be val (Continued on page 6)

Camp Life Described By Lieutenant Harper

Many Davidson Men Are at Camp Jackson Now.

The following is a letter from Lieut. Jas. C. Harper, '15, stationed at Camp Jackson, Columbia, S.C.:

Co. 18, 5th Tr. Bn. 156 Depot Brigade, Camp Jackson, S.C., Feb. 24, 1918.

The Alumni Editor, The Davidsonian, Davidson, N.C.

Dear Sir:

"Those of us now in camp are just as anxious to keep in touch with the things in progress on the campus there as you are with us, and the fact that we are busy all the time getting ready to lick the stuffing out of 'Old Fritz' doesn’t mean at all that we aren't interested in the things you fellows are doing back there in college and that we don't keep up with events up there as far as possible.

We have a regular little Davidson colony here in our part of the camp. Dr. J. W. MacConnell is a captain in the Base Hospital and G. W. Gignilliat, '15, is one of the Y.M.C.A. workers over there. Jim Carson is an instructor in the Officers’ Training Camp and I see him nearly every day. P.L. McWilliams is adjutant of the 6th Training Battalion, and J.L. McLean is assistant adjutant of the 5th. Ed. Currie is the chaplain of this brigade and Wardlaw Thompson and your humble servant are in the 29th and 18th companies respectively. Your Alumni register probably shows all this information, but it might be of interest to Davidsonian readers to know that so many old Davidson men are so close together and in touch with each other.

Our experiences here could hardly be called thrilling, but they have been intensely interesting and instructive to me at least and the very privilege of being in contact with so many men of so many different kinds is an education in itself. One thing I have learned is that if you make your estimate of a man when he first gets here even though you make every allowance and consideration, you are almost certain to underestimate him. Men come in here whom you are tempted to consider almost hopelessly green and ignorant. You say to yourself, 'that man is hopeless. He will never make a soldier.' The man is transferred to some other part of camp and you probably don't see him for a month or two. Some day he comes up to you and speaks to you and you don’t even recognize him, so much has he changed. His whole manner is different and his appearance has so changed you have to look at him twice to believe you have ever seen him before. Where he formerly looked slouchy and dejected he is now alert and neat as a pin. He practices the forms of military courtesy in a way he would not have even understood a few months earlier. It almost seems impossible that such a great change could have been wrought in such a short time. This is not confined to one or two examples, but is the general rule all over the camp.

Baseball and boxing are the chief interests of the men in our company just now and both sports are in full swing. We celebrated Washington's birth- (Continued on page 6)

(Continued on page 6)