The DAVIDSONIAN April 3, 1918

“PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS”

Some time ago this verse appeared in The Davidsonian:
“The college paper’s a wonderful invention.
The college gets all the fame,
The printer gets all the money;
But the staff gets all the blame.”

If there is any fame—if anything has been accomplished by our paper, we want the college to be the recipient of good results, and the blame—the staff is willing to bear that, and we are willing to give the money to the printer (for it is deserved). But what is the source of the money? It comes from the blanket fee and subscriptions, our natural source of income; one of our friends gave us $100; the student body co-operated with the paper by increasing the blanket fee portion for The Davidsonian 25 cents per man; our advertisers, by the end of the session, will have paid nearly $400, about one-third the cost of publication for the year!

Readers, we want you to have a paper that pleases you; we want the college to get the fame; the printer, the money; the staff, the blame; and our advertisers to get your patronage, for your sake, their sake, and The Davidsonian’s. Here is the complete list:

American Trust Co., Charlotte.
Armour Bros. & Thompson, Davidson.
Athletic Association, Davidson College.
G. C. Bellingrath, Davidson.
Brady Printing Co., Statesville.
Bank of Davidson, Davidson.
Belk Brothers, Charlotte.
Ben Vonde Co., Charlotte.
P. W. Booe, Davidson.
H. W. Brockman & Co., Davidson.
Brown-Knox Mercantile Co., Davidson.
J. T. Cashion & Sons, Davidson.
Charlotte Steam Laundry, Charlotte.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Troy, N. Y.
Commissary, Davidson.
Coopers, Charlotte.
W. C. Cummings, Davidson.
Davidson College, Davidson.
Davidson College Magazine, Davidson.
Davidson Pressing Club, Davidson.
M. E. Edwards, Davidson.
L. A. Elliott, Davidson.
Elliott & Childs, Davidson.
A. H. Fetting & Co., Baltimore, Md.
D. R. Freeman, Davidson.
General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
Gilmer-Moore Co., Charlotte.
M. H. Goodrum & Co., Davidson.
W. H. Harrell, Davidson.
Hoover & Smith, Philadelphia, Pa.
Jetton Drug Co., Davidson.
Tobe Johnson, Davidson.
Johnston-Belk Co., Statesville.
Z. K. Justice, Davidson.
McCallie High School, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Maddrey & Thames, Davidson.
W. N. Mebane, Davidson.
Miller-White Drug Co., Mooresville.
Milton Smith Clothes Shops, Charlotte.
R. E. McClure, Davidson.
Rutledge Morton, Davidson.
A. P. Ormand, Davidson.
Piedmont Theater, Charlotte.
T. B. Pratt, Charlotte.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., Charlotte.
Presbyterian Theological Seminary of Kentucky, Louisville, Ky.
A. S. Potts, Davidson.
Mrs. J. H. Reid, Davidson.
Sholtz, the Florist, Charlotte.
Shu-Fixery, Charlotte.
W. C. Smith, Davidson.
Southern Railway Co., Charlotte.
A. G. Spalding & Son, Atlanta, Ga.
Chas. M. Stieff, Charlotte.
R. H. Stone, Davidson.
Stonewall Hotel, Charlotte.
Storn-Schaffer Co., Charlotte.
Tate-Brown Co., Charlotte.
Thad L. Tate, Charlotte.
A. Thames, Davidson.
Thies-Smith Realty Co., Charlotte.
F. A. Thomas, Davidson.
W. M. Torrence, Davidson.
United Shirt & Collar Co., Troy, N. Y.
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Wallace Brough Co., Davidson.
V. Wallace & Sons, Charlotte.
H. L. Washam, Davidson.
White Drug Co., Davidson.
S. L. White, Cornelius, N. C.
O. C. Williamson, Davidson.
Thos. E. Wilson Co., Chicago, Ill.

VIRGINIA CLUB ENJOYS A BIENNIAL BANQUET

The Virginia Club held their bi-annual banquet last Thursday night at 9 o’clock at the residence of Mrs. N. L. Smith. A delightful five-course supper was served by Mrs. Smith, in which nothing of tastefulness was lacking. After the banquet, a jovial gathering of the Virginians was held in the parlor of her home, where the old Virginia spirit was manifested abundantly. The club was entertained by an address from Prof.W. W. Wood, who is a native of Charlottesville, Va., and Dr. J. B. Woods, who has recently returned from China and also claims Virginia as his home. A delightful address was given by J. R. Woods, and W. P. Cumming with M. B. Heizer brought up the rear with entertaining addresses on the appropriate subject, “Why I Love Virginia.” D. M. Orgain, who is president of the club, was toastmaster for the evening and made the occasion a very interesting one through his play on words. Jokes were told in abundance, the most appropriate was probably the one on the limping professor. The banquet was attended by sixteen members. It welcomed the two honored guests of the evening, Dr. Woods and Professor Wood. Also, it was fortunate in having a general in attendance—“General” Hall, of Georgia Dorm. The evening was ended with a vote of thanks to Mrs. Smith, who had so tastefully made the occasion a cheerful one, and to Mrs. Saunders, who so kindly decorated the place cards for the evening with red and black; and also to the committee on the banquet which made the occasion possible; after which the club retired to the parlor and officers were elected for the ensuing year, as follows: G. P. Scott, president; K. B. McCutcheon, vice-president; J. E. Cassell, secretary and treasurer, and P. B. Carwile, banquet manager.

THE PEOPLE ARE SAVING.

The English have not been considered a saving nation, and one of the most notable examples of the effect of patriotism on a whole people was the fact that during the year 1916, although purchasing billions of dollars of war bonds, the small savings banks depositors in England increased their deposits over $60,000,000. The patriotic appeal to the American people for war savings has met with a similar response. Statistics for the year 1917 are not yet available, but reports from various sections of the United States indicate that membership and assets in co-operative building, or savings and loan associations, increased at least 10 percent, the same rate of increase for the year 1916 and about the average rate of increase for the last ten years. The small savings bank accounts show a similar increase in numbers of depositors and amounts of deposits. Sales of War Savings Stamps also show a great growth of the habit of saving.

The Tate-Brown Company
111 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St.
Statesville, N. C.
When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.
17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See Our Line of Florsheim Dress Shoes
Also ARMY Shoes

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company
Everything to Wear
Let us pay your railroad fare to Statesville and return on all purchases of $25.00.
Hart, Schaffner & Marx and Society Brand Clothes ARE BEST
Talk this over with J. B. DAFFIN

The Growell Clothing Co.
Men’s Novelty Wear
A Complete Line of Spring Haberdashery