The DAVIDSONIAN April 24, 1918

DAVIDSON NOW MEMBER OF AMER. UNI UNION

The necessary money has been raised and Davidson has joined the American University Union at Paris. This union was organized
in Paris largely through Yale University to afford comforts and conveniences for the college men who are fighting in Europe.
Membership in this union is open to all American Universities and Colleges. Its constitution declares its object to be “to
provide at moderate cost a home with the privileges of a simple club for American college men and their friends
passing through Paris on furlough; the privilege to include information bureau, writing and newspaper room, library, dining room, bedrooms, baths,
social features, opportunities for physical recreation, entertainments, and medical advice.”

The making of the face masks which is being done in the work room at present, does not demand much
skill or accuracy. We should like to encourage everyone over twelve years of age to give some time to helping
fill our order for the month. A half hour or an hour is better than no time at all, and
we ask your earnest interest in this work. If you cannot come yourself, can you not send your daughter? Can
you not watch over your neighbor's children and let her come? If you think of it as your duty, can
you not devise some way by which you can show your interest and lend your aid? Would you be willing
that any one man who has gone across from this community should suffer for lack of what you, individually, have
failed to do? If you are praying for the end of this war, have a care that you show by
your works that you are in earnest.

The women of the Red Cross are planning to have weekly sales of ice cream, tea, and sandwiches, etc., in
the Scofield building which has been generously loaned for this purpose by Miss Sadie Scofield. It is hoped that some
funds to be used for local expenses can be raised this way.

A party of students were planning to take a trip to Mitchell College Monday. As far as could be learned,
as this goes to press, the party was to consist of C. Howell, N. P. Baba, W. P. Cumming, H.
M. Hill, and R. McClure.

TOWN ITEMS

Dr. and Mrs. Wolsey and their daughter, Miss Woolsey, who have been visiting Mrs. Ellenwood for a fortnight, have left
for Asheville, N.C.

Miss Fithian, of Haddonfield, N.J., who has been visiting Mrs. Currie, has left to visit relatives in Statesville.

Mr. W. J. Martin, Jr. is at home from Annapolis, where he has been studying for entrance into the Naval
Academy.

Mrs. Moore McConnell was called to Charlotte on account of the illness of relatives.

Dr. Martin is recovering after ten days’ illness.

Dr. Richard was in Mooresville last week.

Mrs. W. R. Grey, Mrs. A. Currie, Miss Maud Vinson, and Miss Lizzie Young will represent the Davidson Presbyterian Church
at the Presbyterial which meets in Hickory, April 23-25.

Mr. Shelton, who has been sick for some time, is recovering.

Mr. A. B. Hobbs, son-in-law of C. B. Webb, of Senator Simmons’ office, is visiting his daughter, Mildred Hobbs, at
Mr. Webb's. Mr. Hobbs lives at Davidson.

COMPANIES A AND B WILL HOLD COMPETITIVE DRILL

The annual field day will be held on Monday, April 29. The field sports will be held in the afternoon.
The competition drill will be held at this time also. It is hoped that it will be possible to have
the drill in the morning, thereby leaving the afternoon entirely free for the field sports.

In the competition drill held at this time, a banner will be awarded to the company having the best drill.
This banner will have placed on it the name of each man in that company.

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing The Commissary

Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies

LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

For information, address: W.W. Moore, D.D., LLD. Principal

When in Mooresville Visit The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

Tobe Johnson 17 Years at the Same Place

For Gents’ Furnishings, Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to M. H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE We can supply your wants

Call WHITE'S, 25-W Cornelius For Fresh Meats

Spring Shirts and Neckwear

Lion, Belk and Maryland Madras Shirts, 98c., $1.25, $1.50, $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00. Silk Shirts, $6.00, $5.00, $3.95, $3.50 and
$2.95. Stetson, No Name and Belk Hats, new shapes and colors, $2.50 to $6.00. Silk Neckwear, 25c., 50c., 75c. and
98c.

Belk Brothers : Charlotte
