THEDA VISIONIAN Vol. VI.

“Y” Recreation Room Is Very Popular
Movie Machine Expected Soon. Screen Is Ready.

At present, the room on the right in the new Gymnasium is being used as the “Y” recreation room. In
this room, Mr. Moore has placed a number of games, popular magazines, and a victrola machine. There is also a
table with writing material in this room which is at the disposal of all the men in the unit. The
small room adjoining this is being used as a storeroom for athletic goods. They consist of basketballs, volleyballs, indoor baseballs,
etc., and can be procured at any time during the day.

Within the next few days, Mr. Moore will convert the recreation room into a writing room exclusively and use the
large room on the left of the hall for entertainment. He is expecting a piano, also a number of chairs,
from Atlanta. Another phase of the “Y” program which is of great interest to all the fellows is the series
of moving picture shows which will begin very soon. The machine has been shipped, but owing to the congestion of
all railroads, it probably will be the last of the week before all the apparatus arrives. The screen is ready,
however, and benches are being made here on the campus. They will fill the main floor of the gym, and
before many days the regular program will be carried out each week, which will consist of approximately two features. The
Y. M. C. A. services and lectures of all descriptions will be held in this auditorium when the piano comes
and all the benches have been made. Until that time, the services will be held in the assembly room of
Shearer Hall.

The “Y” has been a great pleasure and stimulus to the men during the opening days, and everyone realizes that
he is fortunate in being able to enjoy the various phases of the “Y” work and to come in contact
with such a strong character as our secretary, Mr. Moore, who is already well-liked by every man on the campus.

GLEE CLUB CONCERT WILL BE GIVEN SATURDAY NIGHT

The Glee Club has been holding regular practice and is getting in good shape. Regular practices are being held, and
some good material has been discovered in the Freshman class, and prospects are much brighter than they were a few
weeks ago. Several trips are being planned, and it will be worthwhile if every man who can carry a tune
in a basket comes out and tries for a place on the club. A concert will be given in Shearer
Hall Saturday night at 8 o'clock. Several new and original stunts will be pulled off, and it will be worth
every man’s money to attend. It will help make the club a success. Admission, 35 cents.

Lieutenant Candler was confined to his room for a few days last week with a slight attack of influenza.

Co. “C” Takes Snappy Game From Co. “B”
Game Exciting Until Finish. Score 11 to 12.

The S. A. T. C. and student body were on last Saturday night treated with two of the best basketball
games of the season. The outburst of vocal adjuration and “pep” was not quite so marked as it was in
the games a week ago, but still, each company made their presence known and stood loyally behind their respective teams.

In the first contest, Company C, contrary to expectations, defeated Company B by the score of 12 to 11 in
a snappy and hard-fought game. Although Company C was the lighter and more inexperienced team, her team more than offset
this difference by its splendid defensive game. Company B drew first blood when Roberts, their star forward, caged a beautiful
field goal. From there on, it was anybody's game right up until the last minute of play. Chalmers, for Company
C, was in the fray at all times, and it was perhaps due to his splendid guarding that enabled his
team to emerge victorious. Ormand, playing left forward, played a good game and led his team in scoring. For Company
B, Roberts played his usual good game and was the prime factor in the totaling of points for his team.
“Billy” Crouch, at center, also showed up well.

Co. B. Position. Co. C.
Woods (1) .......... Breitenhirt (2) Left forward
Ormand (3) Right forward
Roberts (3) ........ Johnson Center
Crouch (1) ........ Left guard
Cornelson ........ Sprunt
White ............ Chalmers Right guard

Substitutions: Co. B: McKeithen; Co. C: Brice and Cochran; foul goals: Roberts, 1; Ormand, 2.

CO. A VERSUS CO. D.

The second contest was between Company A and Company D and was also full of interest and enthusiasm, as both
teams were out for revenge. They had met on two former occasions, and each team had won and lost a
game. Both teams were confident, but the Company A men, with four straight victories tucked safely behind them, were not
to be denied. Although Company D fought a good, hard game, their best efforts could not stop the “leaders” in
their drive to victory. The winners during the first half showed a superiority in every branch of the game, their
defensive work being especially good. During this period, the “Boy Scouts” could not negotiate a single goal, and it looked
like they had no more chance of winning than the famous celluloid dog had of catching the well-known asbestos cat
in a chase through purgatory. But in the second half, Company D showed a complete reversal of form and made
a desperate attempt at a comeback, outplaying their opponents. The goal shooting and floor work of Davenport kept pace with
them, however. Craig andOrmand played strong games at forward. For the Company D ag-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 6, 1918. No. 6

“Flu” Situation In Town Continues to Improve
Epidemic Has Run Its Course. Mills Resume Work.

That the influenza epidemic in the town has receded is evidenced in the fact that no new cases have been
reported the past week. Of the few victims at present, there are only two which have developed into pneumonia as
a result, neither of these being very serious. The crisis having been passed without any serious result, the outlook is
so bright that in a week, it is predicted, there will not be a single case.

In the factory districts, the situation is so much improved that the quarantine has been lifted and the factories are
running as smoothly as before, except being slightly handicapped owing to the few convalescent employees. While the school has not
been re-opened as yet, it is most likely it will be in a day or two. Also, with the negroes,
the danger is lessening, there being practically no cases with them at the present time, although at the outset of
the epidemic, due to their ignorance of modern sanitation and care of the body, the disease was most prevalent in
their section. And among these, our antitheses in color, are several who are very much opposed to being iconoclastic, resorting
to such methods as shaking a little sulphur into their shoes and other unique proceedings at the suspicions of a
cold, in the hope that the disease could be avoided by such beliefs.

While the situation shows such a marked improvement and the epidemic has almost run its course, it would be most
unwise to grow lax in the care and comfort of the body while there is even the faintest suspicion of
the disease. Profound appreciation and all due thankfulness should be accorded those who have, at their own personal risk of
contagion, watched over and nursed the victims and have cared for them with deft acumen and unerring skill.

Miss Eloise Martin spent Sunday with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin. S. C. Harris, '18, spent a
few hours on the Hill Sunday.

Denny, playing at forward, did the best work. The guarding of Price was also of high standard. Alexander made the
most spectacular shot of the game when he made a backhand throw on a dead run. After “Duke” Harwell had
shot his first and last goal and the whistle had blown, it was found that the final count showed Company
A leading 19 to 13.

Co. A Position Co. D
A. P. Ormand Alexander Left forward
A. R. Craig Harwell Right forward
Davenport Denny Center
Sowell Scott Left guard
Finley Price Right guard

Substitutes: Co. A: Blue and Monteat.

Friday Afternoon Co. “D” Will Not Get Them Yet. Only 240 Received.

Friday noon excitement ran high when Lieutenant Dennard announced that the rifles had come at last. He had not seen
them and could not give any definite details about them, but advised all to supply themselves with gasoline, three-in-one oil,
old toothbrushes, old rags, and be arrayed in old clothes. As soon as dinner was over, there was a mad
run for the stores to get the oil “before the other fellow.” The stores were flooded, and every bottle of
three-in-one was bought. Men came back lugging big bottles of gasoline. Toothbrushes were bought at 25 and 50 cents apiece
to be later dipped in the oil.

There were only 240 rifles in all, so Company D will have to go without, for a while at least.
However, the rifles being given out, the “Boy Scouts” had the laugh. Such a mixture of guns, grease, and bayonets
has never before been seen. The rifles were packed in cosmic oil, and cosmic oil, and more cosmic oil. All
appreciated that fact and agreed that the packers did a “good” job. From 4 until 6, Companies A, B, and
C could be seen over the campus, “squirting” gasoline, plying their rags and toothbrushes vigorously to get off that “infernal”
grease (we mean cosmic oil), and then shining the metal up with the three-in-one oil. By that time, a fairly
decent rifle was gotten out from the stick of cosmic oil. It proved to be a Russian rifle: a little
tall for the short end of the companies, but will suit our purpose fully. The Russian rifle is somewhat on
the order of the Springfield.

Work on the rifles continued up until taps, and all were ready for inspection Saturday morning. The companies presented a
martial appearance, though the way some of the men handled their pieces was not exactly as the I. D. R.
prescribes.

The uniforms for the S. A. T. C. have been ordered, but so far, that is all. No one knows
when they will get here. Through the promptness of Mr. Jackson, however, Company D is fully equipped. Everything is regular
army prescribed stuff, the suits being really officers’ uniforms, discarded because of being a shade too light. The “Boy Scouts”
are satisfied with them, though.

CHURCH SERVICES RESUMED.

Due to the influenza epidemic, the Church has had its doors closed for some time. Last Sunday morning, however, the
ringing of the bell announced that once more the church doors were to be opened and services resumed. The bugle
sounded immediately after the bell had rung and the companies were assembled and marched to the church. Dr. Richards chose
his text from the 13th verse of the 4th chapter of Philippians: “I can do all things through Christ which
strengtheneth me.” In his masterful way, he depicted the courage possessed by true Christians and the strength by which they
may withstand hardships and sufferings.
