+ SONIAN Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 30, 1918. No. 5

Mr. Moore Conducts Inspiring Meeting | Co. “A” Wins Close Game From Co. “B”

“Y” Meeting Held in Shearer Hall—Old-Time Pep is Shown—Competition Large Attendance.

The surety of an ideal Army Y. M. C. A. at Davidson was convincingly evidenced last Sunday night by the
intensity of the enthusiasm shown at the religious meeting held in Shearer Hall. The meeting began at 6:45 and ended
at 7:30. It began with a song service, which was followed by scripture reading. For the delectation of the audience,
Private Morgan sang a solo, after which Mr. Moore, the “Y” secretary, made a talk that was indeed assuring and
comforting to all. His talk was friendly and advisory, coming, as the men knew, from his experience and unforced intimacy
with soldiers. He spoke of the difference between the former college conditions at Davidson and the conditions brought on by
the establishment of the S. A. T. C. After picturing the two in comparison, he spoke about the consequential difficulty
that the men would encounter in accustoming themselves to army life. Mr. Moore admonished the men against the tendencies toward
profanity, shifting responsibility, and losing personal religious devotion; saying these were tendencies that were common to nearly every soldier, and
that every man ought to resist them. He said that soldiers divided themselves into two classes. In one class, the
men, being relieved of personal responsibility and deprived of freedom, just wandered along in a desultory manner without any cares
or ambitions. In the other class, the men were ambitious, vigorous, and desirous of a good name. From this class,
Mr. Moore said, the officers came, because the army cannot be better than the officers. He ended with a strong
and persuasive plea for perseverance, saying that it was perseverance that always won in the end. Mr. Moore spoke in
such a plain and friendly way that his message went home to every man present, and aroused in the hearts
of everyone a warm and true devotion for the man who has come here to be the center of a
mutual and unselfish friendship.

QUARANTINE LIFTED.

The idle gossipers (of whom we trust there are few) of Davidson campus are now in a blue state of
affairs. One of their principal topics of conversation has been rudely snatched from them. Likewise, the rumor originators—and their number
must be legion from the results obtained—must look elsewhere for ideas with which to start their imaginations working. As for
the rest of us, we wish to state with unstinted joy: “The quarantine is lifted.” Sunday at 1 p.m. the
great question was answered. At 1:05 p.m. the campus was deserted. No longer is the subject discussed in the future
tense, but in the past. While beyond the railroad and Cornelius are forbidden grounds, we are still thankful that we
can go to the post office, drug stores, and around in town. Church will, in all probability, be resumed next
Sunday.

Keen.

On Saturday night last, Company A defeated Company B, 15 to 11. From a gallery observer's standpoint, interest in basketball,
and especially company basketball, has increased. From beginning to end there was not a single dull moment during the game.
Company A’s team was a more experienced team as a whole, but they seemed to be very evenly matched. The
outstanding stars for Company A were: Johnson, guard, and Davenport, forward. It was Johnson's splendid guarding that probably saved the
game for Company A. Finley, as center, also put up a mighty good game. For Company B, Roberts and White
showed up well. Cornelson, a new man, played a very good game at forward. The S. A. T. C. and
student body look forward with interest as to the outcome of next Saturday night’s game, when these two teams clash
again. No doubt it will be a thriller. The line-up for the companies was as follows:

Company A. Company B.
Craig McKeithan Right forward
Davenport Cornelson Left forward
Finley Roberts Center
Johnson Crouch Right Guard
Schenck White Left guard

Substitutions: Company B, Neal for McKeithan, McKeithan for Neal.

CO. C VERSUS CO. D.

In the game which followed between Company C and Company D, the same pep was displayed as in the first
contest, although the decision was never in as much doubt. Rumple “came into her own” on that night, for Company
C, as well as Company A, was victorious, and the score of 24 to 14 was chalked up against the
gentlemen from Watts. This set-to was featured by the playing of Foster for the “eighteen-year-old” and of Harwell for the
“Boy Scouts.” The line-up was as follows:

Company C. Company D.
Chalmers Alexander Right forward
Breitenhirt Price Left forward
Foster Denney Center
Brice Harwell Right guard
Gilchrist Scott Left forward

Subs: Company C, Johnson, Sprunt, Ormand, Cochran. Company D, Robson.

The company instructor had spent much time in explaining the general orders of the sentinel and had directed that they
must be learned by heart. An hour later, Private (name omitted through kindness of heart) was caught systematically learning by
heart every order tacked on the bulletin board. That's no lie.

Wofford Here Saturday.

Situation in Town First Game of Season Is Now Much Improved

Capt. Burns’ Absence Keenly Felt. Good Scrap Expected.

Saturday will see a good old-time grid-Iron scrap on Sprunt Field that would warm the heart of every Davidson man.
The Black and Gold eleven from Wofford will make an invasion on the campus, and it’s a cinch they will
be black and blue by the time Coach's little sausage machine grinds them up. Last Saturday night isn’t a circumstance
to the pep the student body will let loose, and Coach Bill's little army will know for certain that it
has 350 students or soldiers (whichever you want to call them) behind it. Wofford reports a good team this year
and promises to put up a more interesting game than she did last year. On the other hand, our team
is working fine, with a month's training and practice behind it, and a splendid, though brief, season in front of
it. With only four letter men back this fall, the team is now a clockwork machine, with a strong, though
as usual, light line, and a fast backfield. Uncle Sam said he wanted Captain “Buck” Burns more than we did,
which is saying a lot, and carried him off to the army, much to the dismay of local football fans.
Every effort was made to obtain a permit for Burns to remain in the S. A. T. C., but having
registered prior to September 12, the draft claimed him and he is now stationed at Camp Jackson. “Buck” leaves a
position hard to fill in the backfield and his loss will be seriously felt. The student body wishes him good
luck as he goes to camp. Henry Massey’s line bucking has featured lately, and he promises ably to fill “Buck's”
place. Spann, at quarter, and Johnson and Lacy McAllister, at halves, will rip things up behind the line. Bill Crouch
and George Miley are holding down the ends; “Big Mac” cheerfully tears things up in the line, with “Pigiron” and
Cornelson at the other tackle. George Robson and Brady are right there at guards, and Robins at center. It remains
to be seen how Coach will line them up Saturday, but look out Wofford! Fellows, shake things up Saturday and
raise sand in general. Lock up every fellow in the guard house who doesn’t go to the game. Show him
he has no business showing his face on the campus. Turn over the old pepper pot and back the team
to the last touchdown.

CHANGE IS MADE IN DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Due to his heavy duties as first sergeant of Company C, D. M. Chalmers has been forced to resign his
position as managing editor of The Davidsonian. J. R. Boulware, Jr., will succeed him in this position, and we feel
sure that he will successfully hold down this, the hardest job on the whole staff.

HORSE TRADER.

Clerk—“Yes, this pony will do half your work in Latin.”
Freshie—“Gimme two, quick!”—Ex.

Red Cross Chapter Secured Nurses—Miss Hill in Charge.

The influenza situation in the town is improving rapidly. The quarantine has not yet been lifted, as all danger has
not passed. However, there are very few cases, only two being reported Friday. Among those who are sick are two
cases of pneumonia, one of which was reported as serious Sunday. All the other patients are doing well and should
be out in a few days. Neither the school nor factories have opened yet, as those in charge do not
think it wise to start work while there is a possibility of contagion. In all, there have been over one
hundred and fifty cases since the nurses took charge. There were quite a number of cases of which no record
was kept, therefore no exact figures can be given. The “flu” did its worst work among the negroes, where ignorance
of care and protection caused its widespread. There were three deaths among the negroes. Miss Hill has had charge of
the work, beginning in the town as soon as she could be spared from the campus. She was assisted in
this work by Miss McDade, Miss Worth, and several of the town ladies. The condition was so much improved Saturday
that Miss Hill left for the University of Indiana to help in an influenza epidemic there. Miss McDade is in
charge now, but expects to leave in the near future.

LOCAL RED CROSS AIDS IN “FLU” EPIDEMIC IN TOWN

No sooner had the Spanish influenza scourge been driven from the college campus than it selected the town of Davidson
as its new field of activity. Within the past two weeks, the epidemic increased with great rapidity, until it was
found necessary to call upon the local Red Cross for assistance. The Red Cross responded immediately, securing two trained nurses,
who were put at the disposal of the town council. Miss Hill, employed to take charge, made a survey of
the village, not only taking in the mill district, but all surrounding localities, going as far as Sherrytown. Under her
able supervision, medicine, food, and nurses were supplied to the needy. The mills saw the need of nurses and secured
another nurse, Miss McDade. The Red Cross handled approximately between 75 and 100 cases of sickness. With the same self-sacrifice
and devotion that was shown in their work during the college epidemic, they took hold of the town situation, and
not one single death occurred after their taking control, although several cases of pneumonia developed. There were five deaths resulting
from pneumonia following influenza before the Red Cross took charge, most of these being among the negroes. The crisis in
the town has passed, and all are on the road to recovery. Only two families still have much sickness. The
mills, however, will not open yet.
