Vol. V. Lieutenant Harper Initiates Novel Plan - Buys Liberty Bond for College Publication.

Dr. Martin has received the following letter which explains itself:

Co. 18, 5th Tr. Bn. 156 Depot Brigade.
Camp Jackson, S. C., April 4, 1918.

Dr. W. J. Martin,
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Dr. Martin:

You have in the blanket fee for the college publications, athletic association, etc., what I consider a very good idea, and I want to add a little variation to it. We in the service never know where we will be or what will become of us a year or so from now, of course. If I knew I would be in my home town then I would be planning to use a good part of my spare time there in talking the good qualities of Davidson to prospective students. Since it is uncertain whether I will be able to carry out that idea or not, I want to do the next best thing. I am sending you a check for one hundred dollars ($100.00) which you will invest in a $50 bond of the Third Liberty Loan. The income from this bond is to be a blanket fee from the Lenoir High School. It will not include the Athletic Association, but will be divided between The Davidsonian, the Davidson College Magazine, and Quips and Cranks, in such proportion as the president of the college may from time to time decide to be just, provided that the Lenoir High School shall henceforth and forever receive the three publications above named. The business manager of the college will see personally at least once each year that the High School above named is receiving the three publications and that no mistakes of address, mailing, etc., have been made. They shall be sent to the following address:

Lenoir High School, care of Senior Class, Lenoir, N. C.

I hope that in time the same thing can be spread to other High Schools and Preparatory Schools so that prospective students may keep in touch with Davidson and the quality of the work done there. In accepting the enclosed check you will, of course, agree to the above conditions.

With best wishes to all connected with the college, I remain,

Yours cordially,
(Signed) James C. Harper,
1st. Lt. Inf. N. A.

SPLENDID SPEAKERS FOR COMMENCEMENT

Despite reports that Davidson’s commencement would be a small affair—a kind of “God bless you—may I never see you again” performance, it is to be noted that the usual ceremonies will be observed. The college has been very fortunate in securing good speakers for commencement this year. The following is a list of the speakers which have been secured:

Annual Literary Address, Congressman (Continued on page 2)

Team Defeats University of Georgia and Oglethorpe.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 10, 1918.

Wild Cats’ Southern Trip Brings Many Victories
Breaks Even With University of S. C. and Georgia Techs:

The Davidson baseball team had a very successful trip through South Carolina and Georgia last week. A large percentage of the games were won by the “Wildcats” and in the two games that were lost, their opponents had close games, and hard fights, before coming out on top. In Atlanta especially were the Presbyterians hailed as a real ball team by the fans. The Atlanta Journal says: “The Davidson team is about the niftiest college team in these parts,” which shows that our team made a very good impression in the metropolis of the South. Captain Hengeveld was the leader of the team and showed good control, pitching air-tight ball. The L.S. of S. edged out a winner by the score of 2 to 1. Waring pitched a beautiful game for the Gamecocks. He fanned 14 men while Hengeveld, on the other hand, yielded one less hit than his opponent and struck out seven men. Not only did the big Dutchman general the team in a first-class style, but his individual efforts, whether pitching or playing some other position, came near to being phenomenal. He batted for an average of about .450 and was an iron man when it came to pitching. This is shown by the fact that he pitched three full games in four days, including both games of Friday's doubleheader with Georgia Tech, and relieving Currie in the second Carolina game in addition. Errors caused his defeat in two of the prettiest pitched games on the trip. The team, as a whole, played a high grade of baseball. The outfield, composed of Flowers, Spann, Miley, and Hengeveld, showed up especially well. Spann, the speed artist of the squad, fielded like a veteran and ran wild on the bases. Flowers’ bad knee, which was hurt in the Lenoir game, slowed him down considerably.him up slightly, but kept him out of only one game. Although the infield, which with one exception, is made up of new men this year, played fast ball at all times. There were times, though, when it showed a tendency to wobble at critical moments. However, the inner field showed up as game 5 to 3. Sumter Clarke “Clamecack’s” captain and brother of “Railroad,” brought home Seahorn, who had singled, with an infield out. The winning run was scored in the fifth on an error. Hengeveld made three hits. The score:

Davidson .....000 100 000—1 6 3
U.S.C... ......000 110 00x—2 5 6

Batteries: Hengeveld and Burns. Waring and Seahorn. Time, 1:20. Umpire, Clark.

SECOND U. S. C. GAME.

Davidson evened up the count with the “Gamecocks” by winning the second game. Carolina went into the ninth inning with the big end of a 4 to 2 score. With Wolfe going like a house afire, and Davidson's weak end up, the outlook was bright for the South Carolinians. Things soon happened, however, that put a different face on matters. The “Gamecocks’” followers say their team slumped—others say it was merely a demonstration of “persevering to the end” on the part of the Presbyterians. Whatever cause we decide upon, the result was three runs and the old ball game. The pitching of Currie and the batting of Hengeveld and Cassell featured for Davidson. Seahorn and S. Clarke were the stars for Carolina. The score:

CAROLINA AB R H PO A E
Bowen, rf........5 0 0 1 0 0
Evans, 3b........4 0 1 2 0 0
Seahorn, c.......4 1 2 8 0 0
S. Clarke, ss.....4 1 3 2 5 0
Conrad, cf.......4 0 2 0 0 0
Baker, lf.........3 0 1 0 0 0
Kohn, 2b.........3 0 1 3 3 2
Parker, 1b.......3 0 4 12 0 1
Wolfe, p..........4 0 0 0 0 0
*Beall.............1 0 0 0 0 0
**Wessinger.....0 0 0 0 0 0
***Waring........1 0 0 0 0 0
Total............36 3 12 27 13 3

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A E
Spann, cf.........5 0 1 1 0 0
King, ss..........4 0 0 2 3 1

(Continued on page 5)

No. 26

Dr. Vance Outlines Moral Aims of War
Says America Must Put Her All In This War.

Tuesday night Dr. James I. Vance, D.D., made a stirring address in Shearer Hall on the “Moral Aims of the War.” Dr. Vance is a prominent minister of Nashville, Tenn., being pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of that city. He is also chairman of the executive committee of the Federal Council of Churches, and also chairman of the National War Work Council of the Southern Presbyterian Church. His intensely interesting address was enjoyed by all present.

Dr. Vance said that America is in this war backed by a great moral purpose and that as this is true she must not hesitate to lay on the altar of her faith all that she is and has and hopes for herself and for other nations. To win the war, since this war has great moral aims, it is necessary, the speaker said, to know what they are. America is fighting for a safe world. Only remember the things that the Hun has done—only think of Belgium, of neutral shipping and lives destroyed, of the Lusitania when medals commemorating the event were struck off in Germany, and the conflict proves to be a farce between two irreconcilable theories of government, autocracy and democracy.

The war is based on the Christian doctrine of the rights of the individual and the value of the common man. Men shall not be cogs in a governmental machine controlled by a tyrannical emperor but the world shall be a place where “a man’s a man for a’ that.” He shall not go back into the dungeon of feudalism and serfdom. He shall be free. America fights for morality, a morality that preserves our character as a nation and as citizens, a morality that insists that principle and not expediency shall be the controlling feature. America’s aims demand a standard of morals which says that what is right for man as an individual is right for men as a nation. The Hun and all who worship the Hun's god must be given to understand that the future world will not tolerate double standards of morals.

Our nation fights for a league of nations to make all this possible so that war will never more jeopardize the world’s aims and ideals. World peace and the establishment of a recognized tribunal to settle international disputes must be the outcome of this war. In closing Dr. Vance said that if there was ever a time when we could hang our flag in our churches and let its folds drape the cross, it is now, when America is fighting “the good fight of faith.” Let the flag summon us to undying patriotism in the name of the God of battles.

Dr. Vance is touring the South on his mission of spreading enthusiasm and interest in this national enterprise. Davidson was very fortunate to have him here as a result of a cancelled date at another one of his appointments.

F. Flinn, W. B. and G. S. Crouch attended the Davidson games in Atlanta last week.