Red Cross News

Tho a bit late, this is our first opportunity to thank publicly all those who helped to make the Red Cross entertainment on Monday, the 11th, a success. The generous assistance of the students in preparation and performance is most highly appreciated. If any member of the "troupe" has so far escaped being thanked personally, we hope that this may meet his eye and assure him that these expressions of gratitude are for him, individually.

To Mr. J. A. Shaw a special vote of thanks is due, for thru his persuasive and commanding personality the talent exhibited was collected and presented. Mr. Shaw's contribution was practically the "whole show," and our thanks are proportionate. Surely much of our success was due to the original and striking advertisements, so generously contributed by some of the boys. Perhaps many a young man in the audience felt that it wouldn't be so bad "over there," if a slight injury would command the attention of such charming nurses and entertainers as were acting the part in the show. No wonder the boys "don't want to get well!"

Next week we have a story to tell about the Junior workers, and it will contain the names of 12 little girls, real little ones, and what they have done and are doing for the Work Room.

FORUM

THAT HORRID BUGLE.

There has come the request that something be said about the infernal machine which goes off in the morning after 6:15. The lights go off at 11:15, which necessitates that we go to bed with the chickens, but there is no reason for our getting up with them. If everyone took drill, this "Can't get 'em up, Can't get 'em up in the morning" delight would be different. But there are about one hundred men who do not drill. Many of them cannot sleep after the bell rings when followed by the bugle. Before there was only one rising bell for chapel—there was no bugle. This is no military school. If a student can get up for chapel by a bell, why can't he get up for drill by a bell? This thing of bringing the tin horn around and raising the dead is unnecessary. Why not stop this useless thing? The bell is sufficient and the Hendrixton postlude exceeds the point of satiety. We are not Edisons and do not want to be, for we enjoy our extra hour in the arms of Morpheus.

A DISCIPLE OF MORPHEUS, '18.

A MODEST SUGGESTION.

In some law college up in New York, so one of our exchanges informs us, there is a girl with the true spirit—she has offered, in case the national amendment for woman suffrage is adopted, to kiss every man in her class. She has set a good example, and one worthy to be followed. The student body of the State Normal at Greensboro has unanimously petitioned for the passage of the amendment. To them we would suggest the above-mentioned example and quote as our text: "Go thou and do likewise." We would further suggest that it would be well for our Freshmen and Sophomores who are debating this question of woman suffrage to look into this matter and see what arrangements can be made.

A. RUSH, '20.

Every time you buy a War SavingsStamp you weaken the Hindenburg line

The DAVIDSONIAN March 20, 1918

W. S. S. NEWS.

The post offices of North Carolina during the months of December, January, and February, sold $780,875 of Thrift and War Savings Stamps, according to a report from the Treasury Department of Washington to State Headquarters for War Savings Stamps here, which report was compiled from the figures of the Post Office Department. This amount of sales by the post offices figures out that the per capita sale of Thrift and War Savings Stamps in the State is about 35 cents, and while the banks have sold probably a similar amount, the per capita sale remains far from what is required of each individual if the State’s quota of $50,000,000 is to be reached this year.

From the Treasury report, the post offices of Forsyth County lead the State with the sale of $60,513.13. Cabarrus is second with a sale of $54,992.35. Other counties making good sales are: Rockingham, $42,783.31; Halifax, $37,581.36; Buncombe, $26,622.00; Union, $25,629.62; and Granville, $23,610.61.

One of the slogans of the War Savings Campaign is: “A dollar hoarded is a slacker; a dollar wasted is a traitor; but a dollar saved and invested is a patriot.”

Mrs. Vaughn, of Greensboro, spent the weekend with Mrs. Worth.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina

The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

S. M. GILBERT
AT THE COMMISSARY
is Our Representative at the College

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Faculty Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

SPALDING’S
Club Special
BASE BALL SHOE
RECOMMENDED for school and college players, Strongly made of selected leather, Fine sprinting style, flexible soles
See in our catalogue or at
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
The Commissary

DRY CLEANING
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
The Charlotte Laundry
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Potts, College Agent, 20 Chambers
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
616 Chestnut St.
Philadelphia

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
By Backing The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies
LOW PRICES OUR MOTTO

—When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson

M.H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
17 Years at the Same Place
We can supply your wants

FOR Gents’ Furnishings, Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to

Quality Shoes
Let Your Next Pair Be
Style Service
Representative will be on the Hill in near future to take orders for your Spring Shoes
A. THAMES, Agent

Let the Shu-Fixery Fix Em.
C. McDonald

For Fresh Meats & Groceries

CLEARANCE SALE
All Men’s and Boys’ Overcoats
Buy Now and Save Money
Belk Brothers
Charlotte