The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie........ Athletic Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Other reporters for this issue are V. D. Johnson, A. M. Mitchell, G. A. Byrd, Jr., D. L. Mahood, J. R. Boulware, and W. P. Cumming.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

DAVID REID POOLE,
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends, except it be for his country. In lamenting the passing of our loved friend and college mate we realize that he has fulfilled the requirements of this yet greater love. He has died for his country just as much as he who finds an unknown grave in No Man’s Land. He gave his services and his life to our great country and they were sacrificed upon the altar in the camp.

Poole was a man who could do things. He was filled with earnestness while at Davidson. As a student he was a plugger. He was filled with a greater spirit of service. He had dedicated his life and service to His Master’s cause. It was his purpose to enter the ministry, and he so conducted himself that one was impressed with the intense consecration which characterized him. Poole spent some of his college vacations in mountain mission work. This required great sacrifice. He was characterized again by his unselfishness. Sunday afternoon would be spent in conducting Sunday Schools and doing his Master's service. As a friend he was loved by all who knew him. It is a pleasure to have known and been associated with him.

So far as is known he is the first Davidson man whose life has been demanded. It came as a blow to the student body. Our country and patriotism mean more to us because of this death. The roll of honor of Davidson’s dead will doubtless be headed by David Reid Poole.

SENIORS, ATTENTION!
The complaint, approved by us, comes that the editorials are not sufficiently suggestive for constructive reform and betterment of college conditions and tradition. In response we appeal to the members of the Senior Class that if you write an article, with name or initials signed, and send it to the editorial department. Not only this, but we appeal to you to keep your eye open for new thoughts and suggestions. Our policy is to reflect campus sentiment and history and to labor indefatigably for the betterment of Davidson's interests. Seniors! Help!

“Let us go forward unto perfection,” was Dr. Richards’ theme in his sermon of January 6. Is this not a good motto for everyone to adopt? As Dr. Richards said, this means one must progress: All progress comes through difficulties, and these we must meet. There must be sacrifice after sacrifice. One must think more of scholarly attainments than a pleasurable evening downtown. One must keep himself fit, which is a patriotic work. One must think more of making friends. There are a great many things with which the college man can identify himself which will carry him on unto perfection. These things are all around us—too numerous to mention.

REID POOLE GIVES LIFE
(Continued from page 1)
He was elected vice-president of the band for this year. He took great interest in Sunday School work, and contributed much to the school at Shearer chapel. He also spent last summer in the mountains of eastern Kentucky doing mission work, and it is said by those working with him there that his energy and keen understanding of the mountain people gave him a warm welcome and hearty hearing. He was drafted into the Army on the 10th of September, making no claims for exemption.Reid told his fellows he had high hopes of returning after the war and continuing his preparation for his calling. He showed his aggressiveness and capacity as a Christian worker in organizing a Sunday School class among his fellows in the Army at Camp Jackson. Poole’s was the first Davidson life given in the great fight for democracy. His death has come to us as a startling blow, and it is with sadness that we record it. But it is also with a touch of pride that we publish it, for his was a noble contribution to our cause and an honor reflected upon the college. We here express our sympathy to the bereaved parents. We know that they, as well as our college, esteem it a great honor to have been able to give so noble a life for their country’s service.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY FORWARDS IMPROVEMENT MEDAL

The Freshman Improvement Medal in the Eumenean Freshman Society has been awarded to J. R. Boulware. At a meeting held shortly before Christmas the judges decided on Boulware, not, however, until after much deliberation. On account of repairs on the hall and other matters the full quota of meetings was not held, and hence it was hard to determine exactly the progress made by the members. All, however, have shown an earnest spirit, and their addition to the regular society will bring in some good debaters and declaimers. The initiation will take place at the regular meeting of the society next Saturday night.

Mrs. Worth and her daughters, Miss Frances and Miss Katharine, spent the holidays in Chattanooga, Tenn., where you have any suggestion which is helpful.

HON. M. R. PATTERSON (Continued from page 1)

People, and Mr. Horton, Patterson: “Ex-Governor Patterson is one of the best known and most eloquent speakers for the cause of prohibition in this country. He was twice elected Governor of Tennessee, and during those terms was one of prohibition’s bitterest foes. In his speeches at that time he characterized prohibition as the prolific cause of almost every ill which had befallen his State and party, and as an infringement on personal liberty and property rights.

“He became converted to the new viewpoint that the general welfare of society is of more importance than individual liberty, whose strong advocate he had always been. From this new attitude he studied the liquor problem and came to the conclusion that prohibition is the only remedy for its evils.

“He gave up his law practice to devote his whole time to the cause of prohibition and his eloquence and evident sincerity have brought him enthusiastic listeners. He made a declaration of his change of conviction at the National Convention of the Anti-Saloon League in Columbus, O., in November 1913, where he was invited to speak. He said ‘I acknowledge the wrong I did when I once advocated policies which would have made legal a trade which I have come to look upon as having no rightful place in the scheme and economy of Christian civilization. I favor prohibition in any form that will either reduce or destroy the liquor traffic. I favor it person-wide, town-wide, state-wide, nation-wide, world-wide.’”

Hear him at the Presbyterian Church, Davidson, Friday night, January 18.

Z. K. JUSTICE DENTAL SURGEON

Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

A. G. SPALDING & BROS, Inc.
74 N. Broad St.
ATLANTA, GA.

ALL in the Spalding line you have equipment that is right officially, high grade in workmanship, and durable in quality.

SPALDING

Lieut. David Worth, ex-’18, was in THE COMMISSARY camp. He comes from the State of Washington and is one of the men that helped to “clean up” the Pacific Coast. The Detroit Tribune has the following to say of Governor:

Opening a fresh line of Groceries, Candies, and Cigars in the Helper Building. Your Patronage Solicited.

J. F. CASHION & SON

Germany does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat. Phone orders solicited.

White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily. First Class Vaudeville.

YOUR PATRONAGE FELLOWS!

Be Patriotic. Patronize the Home Industry. Give your Shoe Work to the Davidson Shop. Work delivered within two days.

SMITH, Agent
Best Material, Best Work, Best Price

Davidson, N. C., 1917-18.

Gentlemen: If you are pleased, tell others. If not, tell me.

M. E. Edwards, 22 Chambers Bldg.
Davidson Manager for Dick's Laundry Co.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.