The DAVIDSONIAN, February 13, 1918

JUNIORS HAVE CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

Q. N. Hunneycutt, Locust, N. C.: A Pillar of Fire.
W. J. Hunneycutt, Locust, N. C.: James McNeill and His Poetry.
Coyte Hunter, Charlotte, N. C.: Under a Cloud.

SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 2, 10
Music.
Invocation.
Music.
D. E. Hipp, Charlotte, N. C.: Get Fit.
E. G. Lilly, Winston-Salem, N. C.: The Supreme Principle.
J. J. Love, Quincy, Fla.: The Last of the Hohenzollerns.
L. C. McAskill, Jackson Springs, N. C.: Womankind.
J. W. McAlister, Greensboro, N. C.: Who Is Greatest?
R. E. McClure, Wilmington, N. C.: "W. S. S."
L. B. McKeithen, Cameron, N. C.: Young Man, Go South.
Music.
J. H. Miller, Rock Hill, S. C.: Is It Wise?
K. F. Mountcastle, Lexington, N. C.: Military Highways.
W. C. Neel, Charlotte, N. C.: The Spirit of '17.
R. B. Peters, Tarboro, N. C.: Supermania.

SATURDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 2, 2:30
Music.
Invocation.
Music.
A. S. Potts, Little Rock, Ark.: Camofleurs.
N. Y. Pharr, Charlotte, N. C.: Imperial Despotism.
A. M. Robson, Davidson, N. C.: The Coming Power.
G. P. Scott, Brookneal, Va.: Alsace-Lorraine.
W. A. Siske, Troy, N. C.: The Call.
T. C. Stone, Stoneville, N. C.: The Tobacco Industry.
Music.
E. A. Turner, Winnsboro, S. C.: The Aeronautical Renaissance.
J. D. Watt, Reidsville, N. C.: The War Beautiful.
L. L. Wilson, Mount Olive, N. C.: Hurry Up.
E. A. Woods, Tsing Kiang, China: Decisions.

DEBATING TEAMS WERE
(Continued from page 1)

W. M. Currie, speaking for the negative, advanced the following arguments: (1) government ownership and operation is un-American; (2) it
is impractical; (1) a representative government cannot manage the business efficiently; (2) government ownership would be hampered by politics. G.
C. Bellingrath closed the debate for the affirmative. His points were: first, that private ownership is a failure, because it
is a burden to national development; second, government ownership will succeed (1) because it will give monopoly control of a
natural monopoly; (2) it will obtain capital necessary for efficient development. The debate closed with the speech of J. L.
Fowle. The argument was concluded with the following points: Government ownership will increase the national debt. It will increase citizens’
taxes by 50 percent; government cannot operate the roads as efficiently as private concerns; government ownership is an infringement on
private rights; the present railroad system is the most efficient in the world. Mr. Fowle stated that two-thirds of the
railroads of the world are owned and operated by private individuals. The speeches were clear, concise, and forceful. The arguments
were well developed and delivered in a compelling way.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOORA second debate ensued among the judges in their endeavor to select the winners. Their final
decision was that Messrs. Thames, Cousar, Bellingrath, Woods, and Fowle should compose the two intercollegiate teams, with Messrs. Cumming and
Knight as alternates. It was decided that the team to debate LaFayette in Greensboro will be composed of J. A.
Thames, J. I. Fowle, and J. R. Woods. C. G. Bellingrath and R. W. Cousar will debate Roanoke College at
Davidson on April 7th. The LaFayette debate will be held in the State Normal auditorium on March 22.

FOR SALE
NG CANDIES
WES at Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.

OLD QUERY RESIDENCE ON FIRE SATURDAY

The monotony of mid-winter Davidson life was broken about 12 o'clock last Saturday morning by the genuine shouts of “Fire.”
Almost the whole student body was on the scene of action, which happened to be the old Query residence, situated
immediately south of the town cemetery, and now occupied by the family of Mr. Robert Hager. The fire started from
a lamp that the children, contrary to orders in the home, had lighted in their playroom. Some overhanging towels or
pieces of cloth became ignited, and with the blaze ever enlarging, the fire threatened to gain such headway as to
be beyond control. The students, with several town men, soon put it out, however, by pulling off the shingles at
the rear of the house and administering freely the water which was handed to them from below. The pulling off
of the roof and tearing off of some of the sheeting constituted practically all of the damage. Mrs. Hager, who
has been ill for some time, suffered a violent shock from the excitement and fright. Were it not for the
college boys, the house would without doubt have been destroyed. The house was owned by Mr. M. H. Caldwell, of
Concord.

OUR WAR AIMS.

“An evident principle runs through the whole program I have outlined. It is the principle of justice to all peoples
and nationalities, and their right to live on equal terms of liberty and safety with one another, whether they be
strong or weak. Unless this principle be made its foundation, no part of the structure of international justice can stand.
The people of the United States could act upon no other principle; and to the vindication of this principle, they
are ready to devote their lives, their honor, and everything that they possess. The moral climax of this, the culminating
and final war for human liberty, has come, and they are ready to put their own strength, their own highest
purpose, their own integrity and devotion to the test.”—From President Wilson's Address, January 8, 1918.

Within five minutes
American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

“How Much?” but “how good” is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The old saying that “a
man is judged by the candy he gives” holds good today same as always. Buy the best—don’t take the “just
as good” kind. Nothing quite equals famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively exclusive class to themselves. Orders
receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam does the rest.

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST
PHONES 441-2
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY

WHO SAVES SERVES
BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
SPACE DONATED BY L. A. ELLIOTT
