w The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
E. A. Woods............. Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers........ Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts........ Assignment Editor
R. E. McClure........ Alumni Editor

The Staff:
E. G. Lilly
Emory Flinn
W. M. Currie
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
William Love

Management:
M. A. Siske........ Business Manager
G. D. Sample........ Circulation Manager
C. J. Matthews... Assistant Managers
A. D. McArn

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of ’19—Q. N. Huneycutt.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, G. A. Byrd, H. C. Hamilton, A. L. Wilson.
Class of ’21—W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., B. W. Romefelt, A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck.

Additional reporters for this issue are: M. F. Edwards, D. L. Mahood, W. C. Frierson, J. F. Sanders, T. H. Spence, and L. C. McAskill.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

The booming of the big guns over at Kings Mountain brings the war closer home to us. Have you bought a U. S. Liberty Bond?

Defeating everyone on the Southern trip last week makes the State championship look promising.

It’s the same old game. Item from The Davidson Monthly, April, 1888: “Pitching horse-shoes is quite the rage now with the boys.”

CONCENTRATION.

As an illustration of a student's lack of concentration, do you know anyone who answers to the following description? He comes to college with the best of intentions for hard work and a thorough education, yet his methods of study are such that on the whole he does poor work and injures himself mentally and physically. Trace briefly his day of work and this will be evident.

A short while after dinner he sits down in his room to “study.” It is not long before something outside his window attracts his attention. His mind begins to wander from his book and he passively allows it to roam about from place to place, recalling this and that. This happens frequently during the afternoon, while his book lies open before him the whole time, and he wonders by supper time why he has covered so little and why he knows so little about what he has covered. He takes little or no exercise, so that by evening when he attempts to get back to work again, he is restless, his nerves are high-strung, and his mind groggy, due to the close confinement to his room all afternoon and no exercise. At this time also he uses no effort to keep his mind on his work. His restlessness induces him to loaf about and engage in conversation with his fellow students, and the light has “winked” before he has well prepared his tickets. In the morning he spends his empty periods in the same way, and becomes discouraged when he repeatedly gets “shot” on class after “working” so hard. It is not long before he begins to feel a little out of sorts and to be troubled with headaches. He realizes the cause and goes to the other extreme: takes violent exercise and turns in at night at nine-thirty or ten. As soon, however, as he feels better, he immediately returns to his old ways—lack of exercise, sleep, and concentration. If he only knew what injury he was doing himself, he might think twice over it. He is aware himself that he is getting in bad condition and is physically run down, and it would seem that the knowledge of a probable breakdown in health in the near future would be a warning to him. The more he practices inattention and mind wandering, the harder it will be for him to concentrate in after life; and inability to concentrate has been called the most pitiful affliction a man may have in any profession. Concentration cannot be taught; it can only be acquired by continually keeping a check on the mind and by driving it the whole time. Nor can the best concentration be obtained unless the body and mind are in the best condition—a result of regular exercise and plenty of sleep, along with other conditions which enter in. It is possibly out of place to be handing out “medical advice” from these columns; yet in these times of preparedness a man owes it to his country if not to himself to keep his body in the best possible shape, thus holding it ready for any service the authorities may require of it. With proper concentration such a student can do the same work in half the time; he can do it more thoroughly and accurately; and then will have all the time he needs for other activities—even for loafing. Try it and see if it’s not so.

ORGANIZED TENNIS.

Tennis so far at Davidson has been considered a second-rate form of athletics. However, steps are now on foot to have a certain amount of the blanket fee apportioned to tennis, financing the tournaments and any intercollegiate matches which may be scheduled. As it is now, the expenses of such a match must be defrayed from heavy individual entrance fees, which make a man think twice before signing up.For the tournament. With the financial backing of the student body, this sport would perceptibly increase in importance and interest. This naturally brings us to the consideration of our home equipment, and here it may be said with truth that there are but two, or possibly three, courts on the Hill that are fit to play tennis on and get fun out of it. Two years ago, ground was leveled and wired off for twelve courts behind the outdoor gym. Yet no one seems to have charge of them, and now they are in such condition that they might be used for playing “round cat” or pitching horseshoes. It is very evident that the college is unable to help in any way, as the war has reduced everything to the strictest economy to make ends meet. Consequently, it rests with the tennis players among the students to do something with regard to this. The following is a suggestion, which, if carried out, should not entail any great expenses and which should put these twelve courts into first-rate playing condition. 

Let all those interested in tennis and expecting to use these courts organize into an association having regularly elected officers. Let the president appoint a committee to look over the courts and estimate the time, work, and expense of properly draining them, clearing them off, and rolling them into good shape, moving the backstops five or ten feet back, and finally of keeping them up. Then let the members do this themselves, every man being expected to participate equally in the work. Or should this not be practicable or agreeable, let each man be assessed enough so that the total will cover the expenses, and pay several students to carry this out; or should no one desire to make some pocket money in this way, let a gang of negroes be hired to work on the courts. We have no idea as to what this would cost, but surely it is worth while to consider it and make available to the students twelve splendid courts, so that no one need get “ducks” on a court and have to wait half the afternoon for an opportunity to play. We hope some thought and action will be taken with regard to this by those interested in tennis, as more students take part in this activity than in any other sport on the campus.

Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.

STIEFF
219 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

THE FORUM.

The Forum department has certainly not been overworked this past year and yet we feel sure that this does not mean that there are no ideas and suggestions for the improvement of the college in the minds of students and alumni. Therefore, we earnestly request the students to contribute to the Forum column any criticism, either constructive or destructive, for by putting up to the public a problem, someone may be led to think over it and possibly arrive at some conclusion; also any ideas and suggestions as to improvements on the campus, the management of any collegiate activity, the policies of the student body, or any subject which may be of interest to anyone. The alumni are also urged to keep the college in mind and any advice they may send us we will be glad to print if they so desire. All such communications to the Forum must, of course, bear the signature of the author, though it will not be published if he so requests.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

The town of Davidson has a remarkable record in that it has now only two men of draft age not in service. One of these is an invalid and the other the station agent, already in one form of government service.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville
YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

SEE US FOR YOUR “FEEDS”
We Have the BEST Things to Eat
Also Handle Country Produce and Seed Potatoes
CASHION & SON

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
Phones 441-2
8 North Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

SPLENDID SPEAKERS
(Continued from page 1)
E. Y. Webb; Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. Charles F. Myers, pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro; and the sermon for the Young Men’s Christian Association, Rev. A. D. P. Gilmour, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S. C.

Congressman Webb has made a reputation for himself in Congress and is a speaker both forceful and interesting. Dr. Myers is well known to Davidson audiences as a man of strong personality and well-developed gifts, and all will be glad to hear his address. Dr. Gilmour, who speaks to the Y. M. C. A., is also a divine who always brings a message, and it will be a privilege to listen to him.