The DAVIDSONIAN March 20, 1918

DAVIDSON BATTALION IS DIGGING TRENCHES

The drilling of the Davidson battalion is improving each day. The engineering being completed, the companies have begun to dig
trenches in the mornings before breakfast, instead of drilling. This does not seem to be very inviting work, although the
Davidson men are anxious to learn military tactics, because they feel that it is their duty, and that they can
make a success of it also. About the 10th of May, several officers from Camp Greene are expected to come
to Davidson for the purpose of selecting the best company in military tactics. This company will be awarded a banner
with the name of the company and its respective members upon it.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS

Les membres du fameux "Cercle Francais" ont étudié assidûment la question: Que faut-il faire pour apprendre le français? Ils semblent
tous ne pas avoir beaucoup de difficulté à répondre à cette question, et s'ils pratiquaient toujours ce qu'ils prêchent à
cet égard, tout irait bien. Mais, hélas! Cependant écoutez ce qu'ils disent.

"Premièrement je crois qu'il faut avoir un bon professeur. Je préférerais pour moi-même un fort vieil homme, qui ne soit
jamais allé en Europe. Si vous ne pouvez pas empêcher que votre professeur ne voyage en Europe, employez toute votre
habileté pour le tromper, et peut-être vous y réussirez.

"Travaillez beaucoup au commencement de l'année scolaire, et faites de cette façon qu'il pense que vous sachiez quelque chose. Acquérez
une bonne réputation. Il n'y a plus à faire. Le professeur vous regardera de temps en temps, et voyant dans
vos yeux plusieurs rayons d'intelligence il sera convaincu, sans vous demander rien, que vous savez mille choses que vous ne
savez point."

"Il faut d'abord que l'étudiant désire réellement apprendre le français. Il devrait avoir une aptitude pour les langues, et il
faut absolument qu'il veuille bien travailler. Ensuite une durée suffisante de temps lui est nécessaire. Pour le grand progrès il
dévouera presque tout le temps à l'étude du français. Il vaut mieux, peut-être, que le professeur lui-même soit français, mais
si le professeur français ne connaît parfaitement la langue anglaise, il ne pourra pas instruire d'une manière satisfaisante les étudiants
anglais. Pour la prononciation le travail lent et laborieux, la pratique, et l'attention dans la classe sont indispensables. Les livres
n'y valent pas beaucoup, mais l'ambition et la bonne volonté sont les choses importantes. En dernier lieu, il est bien
désirable d'avoir des cerveaux."

CAMPUSISMS

Andrew Brown, '17, is now at Ripley, Miss.
C. W. Foreman, ex-'19, is in Charlotte again at his work.
G. A. Hudson, ex-'19, left Saturday night for Greenville. Yesterday he entered the service and expects to be with a
company which goes over in a short time.
W. W. Carter, ex-'21, has dropped out of college.
"Nick" Carter, ex-'19, spent the weekend on the Hill.
J. W. Clark, '18, left Monday for Fort McPherson, Ga., to stand the physical examination for entrance to West Point.
W. T. Rankin, ex-'20; H. F. Coffey, ex-'20, and T. H. Belk, ex-'20, were on the Hill Monday.

TOWN ITEMS

Mrs. H. M. Sloan, of Black Mountain, spent Monday with Mrs. L. R. Smith.
Miss Orrie Steele spent the weekend in Rock Hill.
Mrs. C. A. Little, because of a nervous breakdown, has given up her boarding house and gone to Norfolk, Va.
Dr. and Mrs. Martin spent Sunday in Salisbury.
N. S. Richards, ex-'20, spent the weekend on the Hill.
Miss Frances Worth has been confined for several days with the mumps.
Last Friday evening Mrs. McMillan gave a St. Patrick’s Day entertainment to her boarders.
The Book Lovers’ Club met last week with Mrs. J. M. McConnell. Miss May Ellenwood had charge of the program.and
read a very interesting paper on “The Social and Industrial Revolution in England Caused by the War.” Refreshments were served
and the meeting was enjoyed by all.

MAJ. J. W. MacCONNELL.

(Continued from page 1)

well, and plenty in the fighting line and doing equally well there. I wish I could speak freely and tell
you about the work some of them are doing. It is a wonderful experience to serve here and I am
glad I am here and I have heard many of them say the same thing. Lieutenant Brownlee was talking to
me yesterday and said he had gone to school more since he had been in the army and done more
real hard studying than he ever did at college, and many more of us say the same. You never find
anyone here wishing he was elsewhere; there is more a feeling of pity for the man who is missing it
all. To have a part in this stupendous struggle makes all else we have ever been in seem insignificant. Every
day we hear from men from all the allied countries, for we have them with us and we get firsthand
information that makes everything realistic. Frankly, I do not see how a young man can stay at home and miss
it all, especially when he has that wonderful spice of youth, for I would rather be a private at 20
than my present rank at 50, and take a part in the struggle of civilization against the Hun. Some of
us will never come back to Davidson—we know that—but we will not want to come back unless we have freedom
from the rule of Prussianism and that is exactly what it means—we are out to win and won’t come home
until it’s over, over there.

All Davidson news is eagerly read by the alumni in camp and I always pass my copy along to someone
who has not received one, and I hope you will follow me with it from time to time as my
address changes. I am going over to the wards to see two Davidson men now, and I know they will
want the news from the “Hill” for it is a very dear place to all of us, and we want
you to give us all the news possible in “The Davidsonian,” especially news from the alumni. I would like to
tell you about the wonderful work the Red Cross is doing—I marvel at it every day—it is one of the
most efficient organizations imaginable, so you need never refuse to contribute to its fund—the money goes right to the spot
where it is needed.

With every good wish to the paper and all college activities, I am

Your comrade,
John W. MacConnell
Major M. R. C.

11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes. Manhattan and Star Shirts. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Hanan, Florsheim and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St.
Statesville, N.C.

When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a
big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Charlotte, N. C.
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance

Make Every Minute Count in your studies

A Great Time Saver
Simply raise and lower lever and the pen is filled. $2.50 and up

SCHOOL PHONES 441-2

Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,000

Get It At

THE FLORIST, CHARLOTTE, N.C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
Inc. 8 N. TRYON ST.

The BEST Things to EAT
CASHION & SON
