2 The DAVIDSONIAN, October 9, 1918

ers handle a broom gingerly, we cannot help but say “hats off” to the profs. No man now confined to
the campus will soon forget the work of our sincere friends, the residents of Davidson, and the spirit which prompts
them. —M. E.

The Davidsonian
Published Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

CORRECTION,
Lieut. Harry C. Dovespike is an alumnus of the University of Pittsburgh, instead of Penn. State, as previously announced.

The Staff:
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers... .. Managing Editor
G. A. Byrd........ Assignment Editor

THE HOME FRONT.
The battle front in Europe is not the only American front. There is a home front, and our people at
home should be as patriotic as our men in uniform in foreign lands. Every American soldier who has fallen in
France, every American sailor who has died for his country’s cause has given his life for his people. Surely we,
their people, can lend our money to our Nation, their country.

The Fourth Liberty Loan is the fighting loan. Its great success will bring comfort and encouragement and a deep sense
of pride to our Army and our Navy, and to our Allies; it will bring discouragement to our enemies. Its
success means American victory, Prussian defeat. The fourth loan is the fighting loan, the soldiers’ loan.

Management:
T. C. Stone........Business Manager
E. A. Turner..... Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample...... Assistant Manager

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Wilson.
Class of '21—W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

THINK IT OVER.
With the inauguration of the Student Army Training Corps at Davidson, many changes have taken place. We were glad to
see some of the changes and had been hoping that they be brought about. However, there is one change which
we regret to see. This is that the blessing or grace is no longer said before meals. It is not
prescribed, so far as is known, but it is often done at army mess shacks. Shall we Davidson students neglect
this matter while soldiers in the regular army do not? Let us hope that it will not be necessary to
mention this matter again, for we are sure that everyone will be willing to comply with this suggestion. —B. D.

Ever since we turned over our money to Mr. Jackson and our time to Uncle Sam, The Davidsonian has been
“up against it.” With only four staff men back on the job and a depleted reporters’ staff, the first issue
was attempted. However, with the aid of post-graduates and several new men, the first issue came from the press on
time. Before we could recover our breath, the “flu” (Spanish variety) struck the campus in force. When the roll was
called we found our editor-in-chief, business and circulation managers and six staff men occupying cots in the South Wing. The
obstacles overcome in presenting this issue to the public should, therefore, commend it to its readers. —M. E.

Lieut. Ervin D. Shaw, ex-’15, was an aviator of no mean ability. He had received his training in the air
service at camps in Ohio and later had worked at Oxford and in parts of Scotland. When flying with the
British airmen over the front line he had already brought down two enemy planes and gave promise of doing more
good work in the future. Lieutenant Shaw was the eldest son of Mr. D. C. Shaw, of Sumter, S. C.
He was a member of the football squad at Davidson and was noted for his drive.ing in a little Ford.
He was popularly known as “Molly” during his college career. Lieutenant Shaw went out on July 9 with an observer
on a single machine reconnaissance. He was downed by three enemy scouts after a long, hard struggle. His major wrote
that he was one of the bravest and coolest in the squadron and that he was always cheery and stout-hearted,
no matter what work was wanted. It was with much regret that we learned of Lieutenant Shaw's death, and Davidson
College has reason to be thankful for the friendly ties that exist between the students and the townspeople. Under ordinary
circumstances, some of us fail to realize how close to the heart of the town the college really is, but
who has not been stirred by the splendid response of the community to the present needs of the college? The
ladies of the town are giving the sick boys care that only a mother can equal. The Red Cross has
donated sheets, pajamas, handkerchiefs, face masks, and other necessities. There is being operated a kitchen and dietary from which are
issued such delicious dishes that convalescents are loathe to get well. How can one help but be proud of the
work the faculty is now doing? Every professor is doing all in his power to help in this situation. Even
though some make rather awkward waiters and others confined to the infirmary with Spanish influenza, are out now and getting
along nicely.

Emery Flinn, ex-’19, stopped off on the Hill for a few hours Wednesday, on his way to Camp Hancock, Ga.

Maynard Fountain, '18, was a visitor on the campus Thursday.

Lieutenant Dwyer is still in the infirmary with the influenza but is expected to be out soon.

Paul H. Brown has returned to his home in Chadburne, N.C.

Mrs. Girsh, of Winston-Salem, N.C., was on the Hill Sunday visiting her ward, John H. Hendricks, who has been ill
for the past week.

Dr. B. O. Clark, pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Salisbury, was in Davidson Sunday.

D. L. Mahood, ex-’21, has left college and matriculated at Johns Hopkins University in the academic department as a pre-medical
student.

Reported from Defiance, Ohio. “Going to France?” asked a traveling man at the station of a negro soldier. “No, sah!
I’se not going to France,” replied the dusky soldier. “T’se goin’ to Berlin, but I may stop in France for
a short time on de way.”—The York Telegram.

Frye & Gibson Gentlemen! Tonsorial Work. Our sympathy is extended to his family. Next to Post Office. Exclusive Agents for
DUNLAP HATS and Hirsh Wickwire & Co.’s FINEST of Clothing Ready-to-Wear Military Uniforms and Accessories CLAUDE BROWN, Inc. 34 South
Tryon Street - - CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NEWS ITEMS. Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special Designs and Estimates Furnished
on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Now! Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place.

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens, Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes TRY US.

MARLEY 2 IN. DEVON 2 1/4 IN. COLLARS CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS.

When in Need of Give Us a Trial. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co. Hood Norton DAVIDSON, N.C.
