With the Alumni

DEANE M. ORGAIN, '18, SUCCUMBS TO PNEUMONIA

News was received last week of the death of Deane M. Orgain, '18, which occurred Sunday, October 27, in the
base hospital at Norfolk, Va. Orgain had joined the navy late in July and had been stationed at the Naval
Training School at Norfolk. Some time ago he was affected with Spanish influenza, which developed into pneumonia from which he
died. His home was in Danville, Va.

Deane came to Davidson as a Sophomore in 1914, having spent the previous year at Hampton-Sidney College. He returned to
Davidson for his Junior and Senior years, and graduated last May with the A.B. degree, proving himself a good student
in his work. During his last two years, Orgain was monitor for the Freshmen, and distinguished himself by making the
Punctuality Roll. As a member of the Eumenean Society, he took an active part in its work and was one
of the star contributors to The Davidsonian last year.

During his three years on the Davidson campus, Deane’s earnestness, reliability, and high Christian spirit won him many warm friends.
One who knew him intimately has said that he possessed all the gentleness and purity in mind and speech of
a woman, and was in all his habits a consecrated Christian. He took a leading part in the Ministerial Band
and religious work on the campus and in country Sunday Schools. When he graduated in May, Deane had the intention
of entering Union Seminary this fall, but later, feeling it his duty, enlisted in the navy. The news of his
death comes as a shock to all. War has again claimed one of Davidson's sons. But even in Deane’s death,
his friendship and ideals will remain an inspiration to all who have known him well. He was a worthy alumnus,
and The Davidsonian feels proud to pay tribute to his memory.

Lieut. W. A. (Bo) Elliott, '00, formerly of Winnsboro, S.C., is now a full-fledged aviator, having graduated from a Texas
aviation school. He is now stationed at Washington, D.C. “Bo” will be remembered as one of the greatest quarterbacks the
Red and Black has ever produced.

Dr. Dart Webb, '00, of Statesville, N.C., has moved his family to Washington, D.C., where he will open a high-class
dental office in the Woodward building. Dart graduated in dentistry a few years after leaving Davidson and has been practicing
his profession at his home.

Frank H. Baker, ex-'17, is doing chemical work with the American Expeditionary Forces in France. His address is Mobile Field
Laboratory, 86th Division, A.E.F., France.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1918

Lieut. J. A. Thames, '18, who recently got his commission from the O.T.C., is stationed at Camp Gordon.

Norman P. Farrior, '16, graduated November 13 from the Naval Material School at Hampton Roads, with a commission.

Lieut. Frank B. Thompson, ex-'08, of Raleigh, N.C., was killed in action in France during the month of October according
to the casualty list published by the Washington Times. “Bull,” as the boys at college called him, was one of
the best athletes ever turned out by Davidson. He only attended Davidson one year, but he made the letter “D”
for baseball and football during that time. He later served as athletic coach at A. and M. College.

Sgt. Leslie H. Patterson, ex-'18, is stationed with the American forces.Worgret Camp, Wareham, Dorset, England. M.A. Stowe, '16, has received
the appointment of second lieutenant in the Field Artillery, having completed a course of instruction at the Central Officers’ Training
Camp at Camp Zachary Taylor, Kentucky.

HONOR ROLL

The following names have been added to the Honor Roll during the past week:
A.C. Burns, '19.
H.W. Bachman, '03, Camp Mills, N.J.
H.B. Overcash, '15.
C.A. Cornelson, Jr., Chemical Warfare Service, Second Lieut.
L.G. Beall, '13.
M.G. Boswell, '15, France.

S. BACHMAN, '18

News came recently of the death of J.S. Bachman, Jr., '18, who died of pneumonia in Norfolk, October 17. Joe
was one of those who graduated in last year's class, and this fall joined the navy. He was stationed at
the Naval Training School at Norfolk, where his death occurred after a very short illness. His remains were carried to
Bristol, Tenn., for burial. Funeral services were conducted at the home of his parents by Dr. C. Carson, assisted by
Rev. Robert L. Bachman, a relative of the deceased. Before burial, his remains were covered by the flag for which
he died. Joe is remembered by his friends for his sunny disposition and loyalty. Joe had a way of making
everyone know that he was a friend. He was a good student and faithful in his duties. In his death,
all have lost a true friend, and the college a loyal alumnus.

DR. ARBUCKLE SPEAKER AT SECOND "Y" SERVICE

The second of the "Y" meetings that are to be held regularly on Sunday nights was held last Sunday night
with pleasing success. The meeting began with a song service, in which everyone took part with much enthusiasm. The quartet
sang a very suitable and beautiful selection. Dr. Arbuckle was then introduced by Mr. Moore as the speaker. He spoke
of character, manhood, and leadership, and made clear their close relation. He drew beautiful pictures of real, genuine, and admirable
manhood, and named characters that fitted his descriptions. Dr. Arbuckle, as he has never failed to win the highest esteem
and greatest veneration from every man at Davidson, so he did not fail to secure the undivided attention from everyone
present last Sunday night; and in his candid way of speaking, he implanted a lesson of truth in the hearts
of many that will be productive of profitable consequences.

Attention!

To Our Young Men Who Are Preparing to Go "Over There"

We can supply you with the best quality of Regulation Canvas Leggings, Socks, Army Shoes, Leather Puttees, Guns, Regulation Army
Shirts, etc.; Stetson Army Hats. Mail orders will receive our prompt attention.

Mellon's
8-10 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St.,
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

Military Outfitters

Kuppenheimer Uniforms—the Best Known,
Stetson Army Hats,
Barnistee Puttees,
Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices.
Also complete line of Men’s and Young Men’s SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc.
"WE SAVE YOU MONEY"

V. WALLACE & SONS
31-33 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro

SPALDING’S

For Shoes, Caps, Belts, Football Equipment, Sweaters, Jerseys, And the implements for every athletic game, of course.

A.G. SPALDING & Bros.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

CLUEETT, PEABODY & Co., INC. MAKERS
