The DAVIDSONIAN, March 6, 1918

SCHEDULE.
Debate, Saturday night, March 9:
Resolved, That the party candidate for President of the United States should be nominated by direct primary rather than by national convention.
Philanthropic — Affirmative: Chalmers and Alexander. Negative: W.C. Cumming and C. G. Brown. Extemporaneous: Affirmative, Boney; negative, W. P. Davenport. Oration, Davis. Declamation, Calhoun.
Eumenean — Affirmative: Dendy, Flinn and Good. Negative: Wm. Love, Liston and Orgain. Declamations: Mahood and W. P. Cumming.

STUDENT MARRIED IN MOORESVILLE

In a simple home wedding last Saturday evening at 7 o'clock, C. F. Allen, '19, and Miss Sarah L. Stiles, of Mooresville, were quietly married. The bride’s father is superintendent of one of the cotton mills of Mooresville and as the family had previously lived in Davidson, the bride was well known by many here. Rev. W. A. Jenkins officiated, using the impressive ring ceremony. Only a few of the friends of the couple were present. The bride’s brother, Dale Stiles, acted as best man, while a friend, Miss Mary Cornelius, of Mooresville, was the bridesmaid. The bride has been teaching near Mooresville during the past winter and the groom attending college. It is understood that Mr. and Mrs. Allen will continue their present occupations for the present at least. Congratulations from a host of friends are extended to them.

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE AT ELON, MARCH 8-10

The annual conference of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union will be held at Elon College, the 8th to 10th of March. Last year there were over a hundred delegates at the Greensboro Conference and a large number is expected this year. Davidson had thirty-five delegates at the conference last year. Such speakers as Dr. C. S. Ussher, of Van, Turkey, which is an ancient Armenian city; Dr. J. B. Woods, of China; Mr. J. E. McMurray, of New York, and others, will be on the program. Among these will be two of our own students, R. Woods, the President of the local band, and G. A. Hudson. Mr. Murray is Educational Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement and Drs. Ussher and Woods have been medical missionaries for a number of years.
A treat is in store for all those who find that they can attend this conference and all expecting to do so are urged to notify either McClure or J. R. Woods as soon as possible. There are nearly 200 students in North Carolina who are looking forward to a life of service on the foreign field. It is expected that many of these as well as many other students will assemble at Elon to enjoy the conference.

MOORESVILLE HIGHS WIN FROM SCRUBS

Last week the Mooresville High School nosed out a victory over the D. C. “Scrubs” by the narrow margin of one field goal. Kenneth, for Mooresville, was the star of the game, while Alexander starred for the Scrubs. Final score: D. C. Scrubs, 30, Highs, 32.
Mooresville High — Johnson (2), r. f.; W. McPherson (6), l. f.; Gennett (8), c.; E. McPherson, r. g.; Murdock, l. g.
D. C. Scrubs — R. D. Hall (4), r. f.; Alexander (6), l. f.; Potts (5), c.; Apperson, r. g.; Chalmers, l. g.