THEDAVIDSONIAN  
Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1918. No. 10

S. A. T. C. Mustered Out This Week

Davidson Defeated by Clemson In Gruelling Contest on Muddy Field  
Tigers Gained Single Touchdown in First Quarter.

The last game of the season, with old man S. O. L. hanging around, was played at Clemson Thanksgiving in a beautiful little lake. It is true that we had something to be thankful for, if we did lose; that is, that none of our men were drowned. As things were, Davidson played rings around the Tigers, playing on the defensive only once, in the first quarter. Davidson kicked to Clemson, who brought the ball to mid-field where it stayed for quite a while, when Clemson, by full strength, pushed it down to Davidson's two-yard line. There they fumbled, Crouch recovering. Clemson then started on the defensive, while Davidson was about to run a punt formation, when the referee's whistle blew, the result being that he did not see the fumble, and therefore had to give the ball to Clemson, who skidded over the goal line, the touchdown being made in 11 minutes.

By this time the Wildcats realized that they had to stand on their feet. From that minute on, Clemson played on the defensive, being unable to get the ball in Davidson's territory, or near it. Being unable to hold the ball, Spann could not launch any of his overhead attacks, though he showed his usual good judgment when he did not try as many as the Tigers threw away. For Davidson, Massey and Douglass did defensive work that made many a spectator gasp, while Spann and Johnson proved to be the speed demons and ground gainers of the game. Crouch came up to his usual standard, and the line played well though they were heavily outweighed by the Tigers. Frew and Sweetenburg were the defensive men for Clemson, while Allison,

(Continued on page 6)

In the meeting of the upper classes, held Wednesday afternoon, a temporary Student Council was elected. These will serve until January 15, when a permanent Council will be elected. This will be done so as to give a chance for the men who are now elsewhere in the service, and who expect to return to Davidson after Christmas. Election was as follows: President of student body, E. A. Woods; two vice-presidents, L. L. McAlister and D. M. Chalmers. President of senior class, C. B. Robson; student-councilmen, J. L. Boswell, G. M. Robson, P. G. Sutton, E. G. Lilly, and H. B. Dendy. President of junior class, A. L. Wilson; student-councilmen, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Fosque, and R. T. Allison. President of sophomore class, L. B. Schenck; student-councilmen, W. P. Cummings and J. R. Boulware, Jr.

College to Continue as in Ante-Bellum Days; Prospects Look Promising

Examination Schedule  
8:00 to 9:50  
Biology Monday  
Economics December 16  
Law Tuesday  
French December 17  
German Wednesday  
Latin December 18  
War Aims

R.O.T.C. to Be Established in January  
Requires Four Hours Drill A Week. Credit as One Ticket.

On Saturday, November 30, the announcement was made by Dr. Martin in chapel, that Davidson would become a reserve officers’ training corps if the students desired it. A vote was taken among those present who expected to return after Christmas and 120 hands were raised in favor of the plan. As the government requires a minimum of only 100 it is practically certain that Davidson will be organized into an R. O. T. C. after the holidays.

From statements concerning this organization as it existed last year we infer that it will be conducted this year somewhat as follows: Each man will be issued a uniform and rifles with additional articles probably, such as an overcoat, extra breeches, and barracks caps, though this has not been definitely stated. There will be about four hours a week drill and one hour of theoretical instruction. Credit for these hours will be given, so that they will count as a ticket, and will take the place of the gymnasium class in the case of freshmen and sophomores. The commandant will be an officer who has had five years’ training at least, and perhaps may be a West Point graduate.

The discipline will be enforced by the college and there will be very few restrictions as there are at present. Enlistment in the R. O. T. C. will be optional, but will be most advisable for freshmen and sophomores. Some talk has been heard about juniors and seniors receiving $9.00 a month from the government, provided they have had a year’s military experience and are willing to attend a summer camp of six weeks whichis arranged for all R.O.T.C. organizations. Of course, this is merely a presumption from the plan of last year and cannot be taken as a positive fact. On the whole, the establishment of an R.O.T.C. will be a fine thing for the students, and all seem to be anxious to enlist.

1:30 to 3:30 — 10:10 to 12:00
Accounting, Bible
Physics
Hygiene
Mathematics
Chemistry
Psychology
Greek
English
Mech. Draw...
Surveying

Bob Miles, Ex. ’11 Is New “Y” Secretary
Davidson Welcomes an Old Son. Mr. Rutland Leaves.

Along with a joyful report that all would be mustered out on the morrow came the gladsome news on Tuesday afternoon that a new “Y” man from overseas had been seen on the Davidson campus and was to be located here permanently despite the disbanding of the S.A.T.C. units. This seemed too good to be true. It has been said, “It never rains but it pours.” Certainly, this has been Davidson's good luck, for, as fortune would have it, the “Old College” has gotten back one of her own sons and a beloved alumnus, Mr. Robt. W. Miles, ex-’11, of Richmond, Va.

Mr. Miles came to Davidson in 1907, and during his four years within the walls of the college worked himself into the intimacy of everyone, professors and students. His warm disposition caused him to become a universal favorite on the campus, and he is still remembered as “Bob” Miles. “Bob” was hailed as an all-round fellow when here, a good student, a lover of athletics, and ready to take his part in the literary society, or any other student activity. In the winter of his senior year, and only a short while before graduation, he suffered a broken hip in a class football game and had to be taken to Johns Hopkins Hospital for several months’ treatment. This prevented his graduation, and he went on to Union Seminary where he (Continued on page 6)

EXTRA

Dr. Martin announces at chapel services that all men in the S.A.T.C. might leave for home immediately on being mustered out of the services. Various reasons were put before Dr. Martin by the committee of six delegates to interview him on this matter, and after an investigation, the petition was granted by the faculty.

A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR

Large Number Expect to Return For Spring Term.

One never knows what is going to happen on the morrow. Just as the battalion was reconciling itself to a stay in the army until next June, the unexpected happened. The S.A.T.C. was to be mustered out on the fourth. Last Wednesday, Lieutenant Deanard called an assembly of the entire battalion for 1 o'clock. Instantly, each man felt that something concerning him was about to be foretold. This premonition was well-founded, for earlier in the forenoon the lieutenant told Company "D" it would be unwise for them to spend any more money on uniforms or military accessories, and one who was unable to see that disbanding was very probable was hopelessly dull. The news spread like wildfire and imbued everyone with a tense but subdued excitement. Some thought mustering out would begin before night, but these thoughts were soon dispelled when the Lieutenant in very few words informed them that mustering out of this unit would begin on Wednesday, the fourth, and be rushed to a satisfactory end as quickly as possible. He then cautioned the companies not to grow lax or get the “don't care” spirit in the few remaining days, pointing out the great influence of an “excellent” service record as well as the tremendous advantages.

The reason for the week’s notice was apparent. Some of the men were anxious, now that the war is over, to get back to their position in civilian life, where they are doubtless needed. The notice gives them time to make their plans. But the advantages of just two more weeks of stay at college until the term ends is also well worth considering. Men in the S.A.T.C. will be given credit (Continued on page 6)

Every day letters are being received from Davidson boys who are in the service, but who expect to return to college after Christmas. Others have written to get in touch with the college and to learn the conditions necessary for entrance and to inquire what credit will be given for the spring term work. The following expect to be back:
L. C. McCaskill,
John D. Watt, '19.
J. E. Cassell, '20.
M. A. Thompson, '20.
F. I. Knight, '20.
K. B. McCutcheon,
C. W. Worth, '19.
A. S. Potts, '19.
W. C. Smith, '20.
J. J. Leave, '19.
J. R. McKeldin, '20.