The DAVIDSONIAN. December 4, 1918

§ Mellon’s Clothes for Young Men are designed and tailored for us by experts. Mellon quality is the same now as before the war. Knox and Stetson Hats. Exclusive Haberdashery, Etc. Mail orders have our prompt attention. 8-10 West Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

|| MR. RUTLAND CONDUCTS REGULAR “Y” SERVICE

Mr. Rutland, our temporary “Y” secretary, spoke at the regular Y. M. C. A. meeting last Sunday night. Mr. Rutland came here last Monday to fill the place of Mr. Moore. He has already made many friends, and is filling Mr. Moore's place very capably. The service Sunday night was well attended, and Mr. Rutland held everyone’s attention by his graphic experiences as a “Y” secretary.

He took as his text John 12:22; "Sir, We Would See Jesus.” The opportunity for the “Y” comes as soon as a man enters camp—when he finds himself among strange surroundings and strange people. It is at this point that a man says to himself, “I don't give a ‘rip.’ I'm in the army now,” and takes the downward path. And then it is that the “Y” comes in. The comfortable huts, and the inspiring talks by “Y” men have both saved many a man. Then Mr. Rutland told of some of his experiences. He kept the whole audience laughing over his boxing match with the 210-pound Tennessean, who was willing to be knocked out that it might add to the “show.” And then he told about the aviator who took him up in his machine. It is men like that aviator, Mr. Rutland said, that the “Y” needs to touch most. After this war, they will be leaders in their professions. “They have learned a business thoroughly, and they have learned to obey and be obeyed. It is the ‘Y’ that is keeping these men from evil and showing Jesus and Christianity to them.”

|| With the Alumni

Mr. Duncan C. Buie, ex-'62, the second of the noted Buie twins, whose picture appeared in the Davidsonian last spring, died at his home near Lumberton, N. C., on November 30. His brother, Duncan Alexander Buie, died October 3. The twins were born November 12, 1833. They entered Davidson College in 1858, but withdrew in the spring of ’61 to enlist in the army. Throughout the Civil War both brothers served in the company known as the Scotch Grays. After the war, both settled near Lumberton, N. C. They were known as Davidson's oldest twin alumni. They were very loyal to their Alma Mater.

It is interesting to note that the sermon of Dr. Walter W. Moore, ’78, President of Union Seminary, on “The Value of the Church,” which was published by the National War Work Council, has reached its 150th thousand. This sermon, which is being given such widespread circulation in pamphlet form, is regarded as one of the finest pulpit efforts of modern times.

|| ST. CECILIA DANCE A GREAT SUCCESS

The St. Cecilia Club of Davidson College gave their annual Thanksgiving dance on last Thursday evening at the Manufacturers’ Club. In spite of the inclement weather and the short time required to plan the dance, it proved a great success. The music wasfurnished by _ “Now, Bertie, if you're very good I'll give you a penny."

"I'm afraid I can’t afford to be good for less'n two cents, gran’ma—not the way prices is today.”—Life.

Shuemaker's Orchestra of Columbia, S. C., consisting of five pieces. Through the instrumentality of C. L. Hall and J. E. McQueen, the music rendered was excellent and full of “pep.” The members of the club were all in khaki while the ladies wore dresses of varied colors and styles, which presented a gay looking throng on the dance floor.

The evening passed hurriedly and as the notes of “Home Sweet Home” were sounded in the early morning hours, one of the most enjoyable dances ever given by the club ended.

Among the attractive visitors were Misses Mildred Patterson, Gladys Palmer, Juliett Bristol, Dorothy Gill, Ruth Gill, Elizabeth Bolles, Margaret Spratt, Louise McQueen, Francis Mederis, Rogers Gibbon, Minerva Arrington, Helen Parker, Elsie Palmer, Mamie White, and Mrs. J. L. Gill, of Statesville, and Miss Lucy Oats, of Charlotte, chaperoned.

Are You Ready for the Season and Glories of High-Class Shoes? Kuppenheimer Uniforms—the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. Barnistee Puttees. Everything in the Military Line at Reasonable Prices. Also complete line of Men’s and Young Men's SUITS and OVERCOATS, etc.

"WE SAVE YOU MONEY"

V. WALLACE & SONS
31-33 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro

With the demobilization of the S. A. T. C., there comes the question of what will be done concerning insurance and Liberty bonds. Nearly every man in the Davidson S. A. T. C. has been carrying $10,000 government war risk insurance, which has cost him $6.40 a month. If he allows his insurance to drop now, he will simply have lost about $12.80. Lieutenant Dennard advises every man to continue to carry this insurance, as it is cheaper than any other life insurance. It can be carried under the same terms for five years, after which it can be converted into regular government insurance.

Liberty bonds, too, have been bought on the allotment plan, paying $5 a month for each $50 bond. These can probably be transferred to a bank and the payment continued. However, the better way is to pay up the balance due on them and receive the bonds. Then later, if some cash is needed, they can be cashed in at some bank.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, A. Lee Steen, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier.

SPALDING’S
For Shoes, Caps, Belts, Foot Ball Equipment, Sweaters, Jerseys, and the implements for every athletic game, of course.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

MARLEY 2½ IN. DEVON 2¼ IN.
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., MAKERS