[With the Alumni]

Rev. R. D. Dodge, '09, has moved from Clearwater, Fla., to 9 West Ellis Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Rev. W. W. Pharr, '08, is now a chaplain in the service, having completed the course at the Chaplain Training
School in Kentucky.

Rev. W. A. Murray, '96, Griffin, Ga., and a trustee of the college, has accepted a call to the church
at Shelby, N.C.

Rev. R. K. Timmons, '04, is president of Stillman Institute, Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Chaplain R. C. Long, '13, was married recently to Miss Fannie Belle Martin, of Central, S.C.

Henry Allan Scott, '16, is to be married to Miss Margaret Annie Kennedy, of Bessemer City, on November 7.

Dr. Edgar Dawson, '95, is professor of History and Political Science in Hunter College, New York City. Dr. Dawson writes
under date of October 25: “I wish I could visit Davidson, and I intend to do so before long. Four
of the best years of my life were spent there and many of my most precious associations are connected with
those years.”

C. W. Angle, '18, was on the Hill Monday afternoon. Charlie enlisted in the Navy at the first of the
summer, but has been transferred to the Merchant Marine. He expects to report back to New York after his short
furlough.

Capt. James H. Carson, '16, who entered the service at the opening of the war, was back for a brief
visit to the old campus last Wednesday.

S. T. Henderson, '17, who is in the aviation service, has completed the ground school course at Boston Tech and
has gone to Key West, where he will learn to fly.

ON THE CAMPUS

Bellamy Smith, ex-'21, was a visitor to the campus for a short while Monday.

Mr. Roy Inman, brother of A. M. Inman, '19, and Mr. Ferguson, motored from York, S.C., Sunday.

The attendance at Glee Club practice Friday night was very encouraging. Even more men are urged to come out to
practice. Please be prompt, the time is limited for practice.

Johnson is showing up mighty well on the Varsity squad, and ought to make good in the coming games.

Richard Spencer, '22, has returned from a visit to his parents in York, S.C.

All members of the various companies who play basketball at all should be out in uniform and help back up
their respective teams.

The snake dance on the gym floor and the spirit shown Saturday night at the basketball game remind us of
the old Davidson spirit. Keep it up, it’s a good sign.

Lieut. Sam Keesler, ex-'17, had a very narrow escape on September 15. The tail of his plane was shot off,
but he landed safely behind the French lines.

The DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1918

R. DOUBLES WRITES OF ARMY HOSPITAL LIFE

Sgt. M. R. Doubles, Company C, who had an operation for appendicitis recently in the Base Hospital at Camp Greene,
writes very cheerfully of his life in the ward. His letter follows:

Those who are familiar with the surroundings and the atmosphere of a private hospital would be surprised at the contrast
between a private and an Army hospital. This article is taken from experiences in a ward where there are nothing
but operative cases, so the reader will please not get a misconception of the Base Hospital as a whole. Patients
shift for themselves, as far as possible, and this necessitates only two nurses and two orderlies for a ward of
about fifty. In this ward, there are about thirty, and there are only four who are confined to their beds.
In another week there...will be none. The patients are responsible for the cleanliness of the ward and each one, who
is able physically, has a certain work to do. Each patient has a bed, table, and chair. He gets up
at Reveille, makes his bed, and arranges his table and chair for inspection. After breakfast, the ward is swept and
other general obstacles are arranged for inspection. At 9 o'clock, the major and O.D. inspect the ward and patients. After
this, the captain, who is in charge of the ward, dresses the wound of every patient. The “mess” hours are
the same as those of the rest: breakfast at 6:15 a.m.; dinner at 11:30 a.m.; supper at 4:30 p.m. Now,
of course, those hours would never do for us, so we stack up from the canteen and have another meal
about 8 p.m. Regular army rations make up our “menu.” We get potatoes, beans, peas, bread, beef, rice, and oatmeal
mostly. Coffee and cocoa to drink. The spirit of the men in the hospital is wonderful. You can’t find a
kicker in the whole ward. We have all classes represented right in this ward. White and colored, all realize that
Uncle Sam is with us and doing his best by us. Among our number is one from “Sunny” Italy, one
from Poland, a ranchman from Oklahoma, several college men, one aviator, a big 200-pound “Darkie” who has been in several
coal strikes, and says this is the first job he has had that he couldn't strike on. Every time a
new fellow comes in, we joke him about being cut up, and what a nice box of cold meat he
will make. Everyone is called a “cold-brick.” A “cold-brick” is one who is loafing on the government and drawing his
30 per and doing nothing. Everyone gets a nickname the first day in. Following are some fair examples: “Big Boy,
Kaiki, Sidno, Alligator, Irish, Buddie, Rep, and Crutches.” The time doesn’t hang as heavily as one might think. We have
a Victrola and it runs from Inspection until Taps. Everyone has an idea that he is a grand opera singer,
judging from some of the hollering that is made in this ward. When there is nothing else to do, we
all lend a hand and make bandages. The writer hears the K.P. bringing supper, so he will have to “cold-brick”
on this article now.

SGT. M. RAY DOUBLES, Company “C.”

OH, WHAT?

A funny thing came down the line,
In black and purple checks;
It wore a wristwatch and a cane
And heavy shell-rimmed specks;
Upon its lip there grew so neat,
A little row of fuzz;
A poodle dog was leading it,
I don’t know what it wuzz.—Ex.

To Our Young Men Who Are Preparing to Go “Over There”

We can supply you with the best quality of Regulation Army Shoes, Leather Puttees, Canvas Leggings, Regulation Army Shirts, Ties,
Socks, etc.; Stetson Army Hats. Mail orders will receive our prompt attention.

8-10 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Alumni and Friends

Are you interested in the happenings at Davidson College? If so, subscribe to The Davidsonian. If you want all the
news worth printing, send $1.25 at once to

E. A. Turner, Circulation Manager.

Fresh Line of GROCERIES At All Times

Also a Complete Line of Hardware, Military Goods, Undertakers’ Supplies

R. S. JOHNSTON & CO.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

“Military Outfitters”

Kuppenheimer Uniforms—the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. Barnistee Puttees. Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices. Also complete line
of Men’s and Young Men’s SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc.

“WE SAVE YOU MONEY”

V. WALLACE & SONS
31-33 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro
