THEDAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

New Uniforms Caused Many Ludicrous Sights

Amusing Situations When Soldiers First Donned Their Uniforms.

“Ye who listen with credulity to the whispers of fancy, and pursue with eagerness the phantoms of hope: who expect
that age will perform the promises of youth, and that the deficiencies of the present day will be supplied by
the morrow:..... ‘hearken unto this’: the uniforms have come.”

On Tuesday, the 19th, Davidson experienced another phase of her epochal era in that her soldier-students underwent the change which
marked the end of their civilian life for the present time: civilian clothes were laid aside and stored away with
moth balls to be sent home and—the army uniform was donned.

About 9 o'clock a detail was selected to bring from the freight office several boxes. “There was but one thought:
that the uniforms were here at last. Day by day they were looked for, and on the preceding day when
two boxes were brought up, it was thought they had come; but it proved to be mattress covers and barracks
bags. When the detail returned and numerous boxes were placed on the ground outside Headquarters, a few curious and unbelieving
ones stopped on the way to classes, and had it been an “off hour” guards would have had to have
been established to handle the crowd.

At drill formation that afternoon, Lieutenant Candler had the men form in line in the order they were measured, and
the issuing began. After the issuing, which lasted all the afternoon, each man scampered jauntily to barracks to “put it
on.” The first assembly in the new regalia was a most propitious one, and yet the array was quite a
ludicrous affair. The uniforms were “on,” but “how?” Who knew whether or not the hooks on the leggings should be
in the rear, and who of the erstwhile rookies knew the hat brim should be worn parallel to terra firma,
who, even of the wise ones, knew the blouse was to be worn to mess? For once all ex-Plattsburgers were
in glory. They were here, there and everywhere, and by words of condescending endearment and stentorian tones of admonition and
even meaningless supercilious commands, we were told specifically how to wear the different articles of khaki apparel. Yet, “if we
could see ourselves as others see us.” It is wondered how many mirrors were utilized this past week. The Boy
Scouts think us a veritable farce and they say: “It is to laugh.” Company D is at last “coming into
its own” in watching us in our efforts at soldierly appearance: they, to their minds, are enjoying a huge joke,
such as was enjoyed by us when we witnessed their first appearance in uniforms.

With the night and “call to quarters” came the mounting up again of man’s instinctive desire to dress. Every room
was patronized by brothers in arms. Each man wanted to “swap” some article. “Who wants a number four blouse for
a number five?” “I'll give (Continued on page 4)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 27, 1918. No. 9

Oh, it’s nice to get up in the morning — But it’s nicer to lie in bed,

Mr. Moore Transferred To Rochester Univ.

Changes Are Made In S. A. T. C. Schedule

“Y” Secretary Leaves For Larger Field—New Secretary Here.

Rev. James A. G. Moore, our “Y” secretary, who has been with the Davidson S. A. T. C. since October
1, has accepted what he considers the calling to greater need than ours, and left us Sunday night to take
up the “Y” work at the University of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y.

Especially since the S. A. T. C. work began there has been the need of some organization on the campus
of the University of Rochester to take hold of a spiritual work there that none other than the Army Y.
M. C. A. could do. In looking out for a man who has in himself the high qualifications to assume
as “Y” secretary, the eyes of the committee fell upon our man, Mr. Moore, who is an alumnus of that
university. Mr. Moore gives the opportunities of a greater field of service as his sole reason for leaving us.

Although he has been at Davidson College only a short time, every man on the Hill has come to admire
him, to make him his close friend and confidante. It is with deep regret to all that we see him
leave us after the formation of such close friendship. And as he goes to assume his new duties the earnest
best wishes of every Davidson student and professor go with Mr. Moore, and we feel sure that with his strong
personality he will come out on top in his new work.Permanent “Y” secretary will be sent to take Mr. Moore's
place. Davidson students have come to love the Army Y. M. C. A. and appreciate its value; and we are
glad that Mr. Moore's splendid work may be kept up, we hope always. At present, the appointee to this position
has not been selected. For the few weeks interim, until December 15, Davidson has Mr. Rutland, a “Y” secretary of
sixteen months’ experience in Camps Gordon (Continued on page 4).

Christmas Vacation. From now on, the military schedule has been so changed that drill will be held only on Mondays,
Tuesdays, and Thursdays; and military instruction periods will be changed from two to one hour a week. It is the
beginning of a gradual change in the S. A. T. C. to meet peace conditions. Credit will be given to
all men for their S. A. T. C. work, and after Christmas, men will be allowed to select subjects they
want. The academic phase will return to pre-war college conditions, though the military phase will continue.

Announcement has been made that every S. A. T. C. man will be given a five-day furlough for Christmas; half
a company from December 21 to 26, and the other half from December 24 to 29. It looks awfully short,
but the most will be made of that short week. The method of dividing the companies will be by the
individual men’s preference as far as possible.

DAVIDSON-CLEMSON GAME TO BE PLAYED AT CLEMSON

Much disappointment is felt on the campus on account of the Clemson game being played at Clemson College instead of
Charlotte. This has always been the Turkey-day feature for the Davidson men and will be seriously missed this year. However,
the whole spirit of the student body goes with our team into South Carolina, and believing that we will come
out with the big end of the score, as has been our custom for the last few years. Clemson has
a good team this year, and it will not be easy work for Davidson to win, but with the fight,
fight, fight our team puts up, we feel confident that it will acquit itself admirably.

Davidson Held Heavy Remounters to 0 and 0 Game Featured by Defensive Playing of Davidson.

The Davidson Wildcats, on last Saturday, held the heavy Remount team from Camp Greene to a scoreless tie. The day
was perfect for football and a large crowd of service men turned out to witness the struggle. The Wildcats, so
far, had been unbeaten, and at first, the odds seemed to be in the Collegians’ favor, but soon the superior
weight began to tell, and by a series of line plunges and end runs, the Remount team seemed to show
good form. Davidson relied on forward passes and buck plays, that were, as a rule, ably executed, and proved that
the team had been well coached. Both goal lines were frequently in danger, but the final push needed to put
the ball across seemed to be lacking. Once, in the final moments of the game, the Remounters had the ball
three yards from Davidson's goal, but here the Red and Black machine showed their gameness and with two mighty onslaughts
repulsed the Remounters.

In the first period, Nicely kicked off for Davidson, the Remounters returning to the 20-yard line. The Sammies were stopped,
however, after reaching Davidson's 9-yard line. The Wildcats regained most of this ground, however, only to lose it again by
fumbles. During the second quarter, the ball seesawed back and forth, the half leaving the ball in the center of
the field. During the third and fourth periods, the edge seemed to be toward Davidson, with the exception of the
latter part of the last quarter, when the Remounters came near putting the pigskin across, and would have succeeded had
it not been for the splendid defensive work of the Wildcats. The game ended with the ball in mid-field in
Davidson's possession.

The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON (0) POSITION REMOUNT (0)
White..................LE...........Plasnig
McMaster...........LT...........McClelland
Brady..................LG...........Miller
Crouch................C.............Coyner
Robson................RG...........Scott
Fischel.................RT...........Baker
Douglas...............RE...........Griffith
Spann..................QB...........Raney
McAllister...........LHB.........Lan
Johnson................RHB.........Cowgill
Miley....................FB...........Blaine

JACK PAISLEY’S PICTURE PRESENTED TO COLLEGE

Mr. Paisley, of Gibsonville, N.C., recently presented an almost life-size picture of his son, Lt. J. C. Paisley, '17, who
was killed in action over there last summer. The photograph is of head and shoulders and is a very good
likeness. It will be hung upstairs in the Library along with other photographs and remembrances of Davidson men who died
in the service.

Last Saturday, Company C was again vaccinated for smallpox, as the first vaccinations did not prove successful. Hard luck, Company
C.

LOOK OUT, CLEMSON!
