a oa MCALISTER, Ex-’19. Ww J. W. McALISTER, EX-'19, MARRIES MISS VAUGHN

Davidson students and alumni will be interested to hear of the marriage of John W. McAlister, ex-'19, and Miss Mary Watson Vaughn, at Greensboro, on Monday afternoon, November 18. The beautiful ceremony was performed by Dr. Charles F. Myers, in the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. G. Vaughn.

The groom is well known in Davidson circles, having attended the college for three years, played on the Varsity football, baseball, and basketball teams, and stood prominently on the campus. He was class president in his Freshman year, vice-president of the student body and Athletic Association last year, and was last spring elected student body president for this fall. During the summer, however, John enlisted in the Marines and has for the past several months been stationed at Paris Island, S.C. It is reported that his corps will sail in a few days for France.

The bride was a student of Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C., and is a graduate of the Castle-on-the-Hudson. She possesses among her many attainments rare ability in music. The heartiest congratulations and best wishes of their many friends go with this prominent young couple as they begin their married life.

Davidson guests present at the marriage were: Corp. Lacy L. McAlister, '19; the groom's brother and best man; Sgt. Henry Spann, '19; President Henry Louis Smith and Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, distinguished Davidson graduates; and Miss Frances Worth, of the town.

GLEE CLUB TRIPS ARE BEING PLANNED

The Glee Club this year, though working under difficulties, has shaped up some good material. It has some good singers; and besides these, it embraces the Mandolin Club. At the concert given on the night of the Washington and Lee-Davidson game, the Mandolin Club scored a tremendous hit. Many are the resources of the Glee Club, among the most notable of which are a “nigger preacher” and a “nigger” mouth-harp expert. These men, Shields and Cathey, are truly artists in their line; and they have, and undoubtedly will continue to draw down their full share of laughter and applause.

If practice makes perfect, the Glee Club ought to make “a howling success.” Most any time, if you happen to be passing Shearer Hall, you can hear them singing—“For every hour of sorrow you've had—” “Nor the socks of sister’s that raise the bloomin’ blisters—” and other popular hits.

It is uncertain now when and where the club will make its trips. However, one to Gastonia on November 30 is being planned. After this, the club expects to take a trip to Statesville, December 7. There are also the possibilities of a big trip to Winthrop and other colleges.

C. F. Allen, ex-’19, who is attending Columbia Seminary, was on the Hill Sunday. He reports that much progress has been made at the seminary since the resumption of work after the “flu” quarantine.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1918

With the Alumni

The following lines are from a letter from Lt. Chas. D. Montgomery, ‘09, who is “over there” with the American forces:

“If you could see some of the more tangible evidences of what this war is and the work of our army over here you would be inspired by some things, touched by others. You would be proud of the long, long columns of troops, the numberless wagon and auto truck trains, the great dumps of ammunition, the hospitals and ambulances, all the aerial service, and all the other things.”that go to make up a modern army. You would gloat over the long columns of gray-clad prisoners to be seen moving along the roads to the rear. And you would be touched to see people returning to homes they had not seen for years, and to hear church bells ringing that have been silent since 1914."

Capt. J. W. Moore, '12, has been returned from France to Camp Meade, Md. Captain Moore entered the army in the fall of 1917 without previous military training. He is one of the Davidson men who have risen to high positions in the army through sterling worth.

A Davidson College Alumni Association has just been formed in China, according to a letter from Frank W. Price, '16. It will be of interest to his many friends and fellow alumni to know that Frank is on his way over to America.

Dr. J. S. Guy, '05, recently head of the department of chemistry in the University of Arkansas, is now with Emory University. Emory will be removed in the near future from Oxford, Ga., to Atlanta, where a complete plant is under construction. The chemical laboratory, of which Professor Guy will have charge, will be, when completed, a magnificent building, excellently equipped, costing $80,000.

BOOK LOVERS DISCUSS PARIS AND VERSAILLES

The Book Lovers’ Club held its regular meeting on last Friday afternoon with Mrs. W. R. Grey. The topic was “Paris and Versailles.” Miss Hattie Thompson read a very interesting paper on “Paris.” This was followed by a paper on “Versailles” by Mrs. Arbuckle. This was especially interesting because of the great peace conference which is being held at Versailles today. The visitors were Mesdames Ormond, Miley, and Mrs. Murray Grey. After the literary program was completed delightful refreshments were served.

FOR THE LAND’S SAKE!

Two Tommies went into a restaurant over on the eastern front and said to the waiter: “We want Turkey with Greece.” The waiter replied: “Sorry, sirs, but we can’t Servia.” “Well, then, get the Bosphorus (boss for us).” The boss came in, heard their order, and then said: “I don't want to Russia, but you can't Rumania.” So the two Tommies went away Hungary. (Phew!)

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Business
Runs a Savings’ Department
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

Mellon’s Clothes for Young Men are designed and tailored for us by experts. Mellon quality is the same now as before the war. Knox and Stetson Hats. Exclusive Haberdashery, Etc. Mail orders have our prompt attention.
8-10 West Trade St.
Mellon’s Charlotte, N. C.

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

“Military Outfitters”
Kuppenheimer Uniforms---the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. Barnistee Puttees. Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices. Also complete line of Men’s and Young Men’s SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc.
“WE SAVE YOU MONEY”
V. WALLACE & SONS
31-33 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro

SPALDING’S
For Shoes, Caps, Belts, Foot Ball Equipment, Sweaters, Jerseys, and the implements for every athletic game, of course.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

“MARLEY 2½ IN. DEVON 2½ IN. COLLARS
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS