Vol. V.

Excellent Program Rendered at Lyceum
Each Performer Makes Good Impression on Audience.

The Winona Entertainment Company was the lyceum attraction last Saturday night, and a large and appreciative audience was present to enjoy one of the best entertainments ever given here by a lyceum company. The program, consisting of readings, solos, and impersonations in make-up, closing with a brilliant little sketch, was one that kept the audience pleased and entertained from beginning to end. Miss Greilick, appearing in piano monologues, action songs, and in the sketch “The Talkative Husband and the Deserted Wife,” with Mr. Caldwell, had a pleasing personality and displayed excellent ability in the histrionic art. Her “Songs of the Pyrenees” were also good. Miss Chaney was a favorite with her violin and received numerous encores. Mr. Caldwell, a young gentleman of good humor and pleasing manner, was excellent in his impersonations. His work was of the highest order, showing talent and ability, which should commend him before any audience.

W. S. S.

In an interview with Postmaster Cranford relative to the sale of Thrift and War Savings Stamps through the Davidson office, he says: “Much interest is manifested by the people of the town and college. Many of the students are buying systematically each day with their savings. R. F. D. carriers have been very active and find a ready response. One carrier has sold more than $400 worth. The total sales from the Davidson office aggregate more than $3,000, which means an average of more than $1.50 for each man, woman, and child receiving mail from this office.” This is a fine way for everyone to help shorten and win the war and also is a fine avenue of approach in learning the importance of saving. The American people have responded to the call of duty to economize and save. They have not only purchased nearly $6,000,000,000 of Liberty Loan Bonds and War Savings Stamps, but in addition, they have increased their savings as above shown. Patriotism and saving are synonymous now, and economy is a duty, and many millions of American citizens are doing their duty in this particular.

This parody, which might be of interest to the Senior English class, ought to make Shakespeare squirm worse than the Bacon controversy:

“To wed or not to wed:
That is the question:
Whether ‘tis better
To remain single
And disappoint a few women
For a time,
Or marry
And disappoint one woman
For life!”
—Ex.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 30, 1918.

Basketball Team Makes Splendid Showing on Virginia Trip
V. M. I. Game is Only Defeat, While Wildcats Triumph Over W. & L., V. P. I., Roanoke.

In her initial game of the season, Davidson defeated the Washington and Lee quint by the decisive score of 33 to 20. Washington and Lee exhibited a splendid type of basketball but the strong defensive work of the entire Wildcat team coupled with the goal shooting of King and Hengeveld was too much for the “Generals.” Davidson took the lead from the first and at the end of the first half was holding down the big end of a 17-10 score. She continued to hold down the big end through the rest of the game without much trouble.

The teams lined up:
W. AND L. POSITION. DAVIDSON
McCain.........RF....... King
Cunningham..... LF...... Flowers
Hengeveld
Fain... .....C. ....... W. McAlister
Atkins. ......... RG..... L.C. McAskill
Referee: Goodwin. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

V. M. I. GAME
Roanoke, Va.—On the floor of the Central Y. M. C. A. here, the Cadets from Virginia Military Institute defeated the Wildcats from Davidson, 29 to 12. V. M. I. easily excelled in goal shooting and to this fact alone is due her victory, for in every other branch of the game Davidson readily held her own. The work of Marshall and Leach, V. M. I., was spectacular and was in a large measure responsible for V. M. I.’s victory. Davidson was handicapped by the smallness of the floor and was unable to get the range of the baskets. The work of McAlister, at guard, featured for Davidson.

Summary:
V. M. I. POSITION. DAVIDSON
Gary, Lee....... RF..... King
Marshall........ LF... Flowers
Backarach........ C. Hengeveld
Leech... ...... RG. W. McAlister
Engleby....... .. LG. L.C. McAskill
Referee: Lieutenant Brunet. Time of halves, 20 minutes.

V. P. I. GAME
Blacksburg, Va.—In what promised to be one of the season’s best games, Davidson defeated her old antagonist, V. P. I., to the tune of 49-20. The D. C. machine was running well, so the tune was very musical. In this game, the Wildcats really struck their stride and displayed a type of basketball seldom seen. Too much cannot be said of the work of Captain King. His goal work was spectacular almost to the point of monotony, the total number of baskets he caged adding up to fifteen. Hengeveld and Flowers also scored heavily. McAlister and McAskill played splendid defensive and passing games. The Techs never stopped fighting, with the old V. P. I. spirit, but even that and the good work of Wrenn and Wharton, particularly, could not change the result.

V. P. I. POSITION. DAVIDSON
Walker, Peyton..LF . Flowers
Wrenn..........RF........ King
Wharton.........C. Hengeveld
Crisp... ..LG..... McAskill
Brooks..........RG..... McAlisterPolity Club Has Been Reorganized Students From Two Upper Classes and Winston “Y.” Invited to Join.

ROANOKE COLLEGE GAME

Salem, Va.—Though fighting hard, the Roanoke College quint, on their home floor, could not stop the victorious Davidson team in their drive to victory. Davidson showed superiority in every branch of the game. The floor work and passing of Hengeveld was the best seen in Salem for several seasons. Flowers also ran up a good score. The defensive work of the Davidson quint allowed it an early lead which they maintained until the final whistle. The final count showed Davidson leading 43-17.

At a meeting of the Polity Club, held last week, it was decided to increase the membership of the club by the addition of a number of men from the Senior and Junior classes who are interested in the work that the club is doing. The International Polity Club was organized at Davidson year before last, and has for its aims the study of international relations and problems. It is the local branch of the Federation of International Polity Clubs, a national organization, and similar clubs are to be found at many of the leading universities and colleges of the United States. The organization is in no way associated with any pacifist movement, being endowed by the Carnegie Foundation, and its aim is to encourage and help thoughtful college men to study and think about the problems and relations of nation with nation, to look upon such questions in an intelligent and broad manner, to cultivate what is commonly known as “the international mind,” especially important at this time when the world is in upheaval. With this end in view, the Federation presents books on international questions and other literature to the clubs, sends them speakers of note, and holds conferences on international relations each year, to which one or two members of each club are invited. It has achieved much in its field, and the club at Davidson has derived considerable profit from the movement. The Polity Club here would be glad to receive the names of any members of the Senior and Junior classes interested in such matters who would like to become members of the club, and they are asked to hand in their names either to J. A. Thames, president, or W. C. Cumming, secretary, and they will be placed before the club for consideration. The club has recently received a number of the latest books on the war and international questions, and a study will be made of these during the spring term.

ROANOKE COL. POSITION DAVIDSON
Brown.......... LF....... Flowers
Painter.......... RF........ King
Romen........... C..... + Hengeveld
Rhyne........... LG . ~ McAskill
Atkinson........ RG. | McAlister

Referee: Lieutenant Burnett. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

WINSTON-SALEM GAME

Winston-Salem, N. C.—In the final game on her first trip, Davidson easily defeated the Winston-Salem “Y” quint on the latter's floor, Thursday evening, 24th. D. C., using her reserves in the first half, piled up a score of 36-16 against her opponents. Captain King alone added twenty points to Davidson's score. Hall and Schenck showed up well. Kimball, for “Winston Y,” led his team in scoring. The Davidson Varsity played the last half. Hengeveld shot seven goals in this last period. Final score: D.C. 55; Winston Y. M. C. A., 33.

DAVIDSON POSITION WINSTON Y.
Alexander....... LF...... Kimball
King........... RF....... Ripley
McAskill....... C........ Cash
Hall........... LG........ Dean
Schenck........ RG....... Crute

Substitutions: Flowers for Alexander, McAskill for Hall, Hengeveld for McAskill, McAlister for Schenck. Referee: Sebring. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

P.Ct. 800 Won. Lost. Davidson ......... 4 1

DATE OF JUNIOR GUILFORD GAME FRIDAY SPEAKING IS CHANGED

Davidson rooters will have their first chance to see their basketball team in action, when it plays Guilford College, Friday night. This game will be fought out on the new floor, where there is plenty of room for the crowd and for enthusiasm. There are three of last year's players on the Guilford team, and it has been playing good ball, beating Atlantic Christian College by a big score. The game here promises to be a close one and will call for some real Davidson “pep.” A second game will be played with Guilford on Saturday night in Statesville.

With Junior Speaking just three weeks off, the members of the Junior class are hard at work on their orations. Already the arrangements committee, composed of J. J. Love, chairman; R. D. Hall and W. M. Currie, has ordered the invitations which should be here within the next ten days. About fifty Juniors have handed in their subjects which indicates that 19's speaking will be up to the usual standard both in quality and quantity. Although the catalog says that Junior Speaking was to be held on March 1 and 2, the faculty committee has decided that the date should be February 22 and 23.

The Old Gold and Black—Wofford was represented at the quadrennial meeting of the Student Volunteers of North America, which was held at East Northfield, Mass., January 3-6. Her representative, who is president of the South Carolina Volunteer Union, described his trip and experiences very interestingly.

A college paper's a great invention. The college gets all the fame, The printer gets all the money; But the staff gets all the blame.
—Ex.