HEDAVI Vol. VI. - War Work Campaign Will Start Today Davidson’s Last-Year Quota is Doubled | Generals Outweigh Wildcats, But Are Not Able to Handle Them—Johnson ~—$4,000 to Be Raised.

The United War Campaign, a stupendous appeal, which should be answered by the “giving till it hurts” of every loyal American, is now sweeping over the country. All colleges have been asked to double their subscriptions of last winter, so that Davidson's quota this year is $4,000. This will require sacrifices on the part of every man on the campus, but it is confidently believed by the committee that not only will the quota be reached, but it will be oversubscribed. Every man in the student body has had the opportunity to become acquainted with every phase of the appeal and it remains for him to ask himself what he ought to give, and then double his answer. It is not necessary in this article to show why every man should give. That has been done fully since Sunday. The campaign has been pushed to the utmost at Davidson, and a successful canvass is expected this afternoon.

The campaign committee for the college is composed of Dr. Arbuckle, chairman; Mr. Jackson, treasurer; Dr. McConnell, representing the faculty; Mr. Moore, the Army Y. M. C. A. secretary, for the S. A. T. C.; Lieutenant Candler, representing the officers; E.G. Lilly, president of the College Y. M. C. A.; S. T. P. McCloy, F. A. Woods, D. M. Chalmers, and C. W. Foreman, representing respectively A, B, C, and D companies; and C. M. McCaskill, representing the college students. Teams have been picked who will canvass the barracks this afternoon for subscriptions immediately after the meeting held in Shearer Hall. Every man is requested to be decided as to his gift so that the canvassers will not lose time. The result will be announced shortly after the completion of the canvass, also the amount raised by each company. The floors should work up competitions as well as the companies, and it is believed that Davidson will show her spirit in this as in everything else. When the fellows come back from France, can everyone look them in the eye and tell them he has treated them square?

“It is hard to die at all times,
But it’s harder still to live,
A slacker to your country
If she calls on you to give.
Give the little that is in you,
Give your all, then give some more,
If you want to hold your head up,
When our boys have won the war.”

NOTICE TO THE HOME PEOPLE

Hereafter, by order of the commanding officer, letters to the men in the Davidson S. A. T. C. will be addressed as follows: Pvt. (or whatever rank the man may hold) John Jones, S. A. T. C., Co. — Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Davidson Defeats Washington and Lee

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1918.

20 to 0 in First Game of the Season | First Group to Leave Immediately for O. T. C. and Massey Show Up Well.

In one of the prettiest games of several seasons, Davidson defeated Washington and Lee Saturday 20 to 0. From the first kick-off to the last sound of the whistle, Davidson's goal was in danger only once, and that in the third quarter, when by successive line plunges the ball was carried to within Davidson's goal. A pass to Johnson failed, but a run of 20 yards by Spann around left end saved the day. Davidson was outweighed ten or more pounds to the man, but she played true to tradition and decisively defeated her heavier antagonists. The game was the first for Davidson, but it showed up the difference in coaching that the two teams have had. If Coach “Bill” Fetzer would have had the team that Washington and Lee put on the field, there's no telling what Coach would do with them.

In Johnson, Davidson's new halfback, Coach has found and developed a man that reminds the sideline spectator of a mixture of the good qualities of Flowers and King, Davidson's two all-Southern men of last year. His sidestepping is phenomenal, his ability to pick holes in a line wonderful, and his receiving of passes uncanny. He caught several passes in which he made 20 to 25 yards every time. The prettiest run of the day was when he circled left end for 65 yards and a touchdown, bringing the ball directly behind the goal post. McFadden, a new man, showed up well in the backfield. Although weighing only 140 pounds, he made several beautiful tackles. The defensive work of three yards of him earned him a place on the squad. His tackling was hard and sure. But after all, the credit of the game belongs mostly to Spann, one of the finest and best quarterbacks Davidson has ever produced. His steady generalship and accurate passing were, as usual, a feature of the game. When Henry fills his shoes, he is one of the finest players, our “sergeant major.” The redeeming feature of Washington and Lee was the playing of Silver.Stine and Spencer. “These two were undoubtedly the best of the era.” Silverstine was the star of his team and did practically all of the ground gaining for them. The line-up was as follows:

DAVIDSON — POSITION — WEST
White .................. Darn
Fox .................... McMaster
Brady .................. Patterson
Crouch ................ Davison
Robson ................ Barrow
Fischel ............... Steeh
Douglass ............. Johnson
Spann ................ Bock
Johnson .............. Asbrogas
McFadden ........... Raine
Massie ............... Silverstine

The game by quarters was as follows:

FIRST QUARTER
W. and L. kicked off and Davidson returned 25 yards. Fumbled, Johnson recovers. Davidson's ball on W. and L.'s 40-yard line. Pass broken up. Pass complete, but lost 1 yard. Pass failed. Ball goes over. Silverstine gains 6 yards over right guard. Rains gains 3 yards over right tackle. Abrogast gains 2 yards over left tackle. Ball goes over. Spann lost 1 yard around right end. McFadden gained 4 yards over right tackle. Johnson gained 20 yards around right end. Spann gains 5 yards over tackle. Davidson's ball on W. and L.'s 10-yard line. McFadden gains 1 yard through center. Spann 3 yards over center. Johnson lost 2 yards around left end. Pass to Douglass fails, pass going over goal line. Johnson carries ball to 5-yard line. Pass broke up. Ball goes over. Silverstine gains 20 yards. Abrogast 2 yards over center. Silverstine 5 yards over right guard. First down. Silverstine gains 1 yard through center. Abrogast gains 4 yards over right guard. Silverstine 2 yards over right guard. Silverstine 1 yard over left tackle. First down. Rains failed to gain twice over tackle and right guard. Pass failed. Davidson catching ball. End first quarter, Score: 9-0, Davidson.

SECOND QUARTER
Davidson's ball on own 30-yard line. Johnson gains 5 yards over right tackle. Massie gains 15 yards through center. Massie gains 5 yards. Johnson failed to (Continued on page 6)

Fischel, one of last year's Scrubs, assures the main leaves it will be a hard job to find a man to follow on the campus, and at the same time one of our very best football players. It will be hard for us to give up men like these.

23 Men Go to Machine Gun, Infantry, and Aviation Camps.
Even the most pessimistic will have to admit that the Davidson S.A.T.C. is on the government war map, for twenty-three of her sons have been called to go to officers’ training camps. Lieutenant Dennard announced this on Monday as soon as the signing of the armistice was made known. In making this announcement he had a twofold motive: First, that the men could prepare to leave, and second, that the other men would realize that it was not all over. When interviewed by the reporter, Lieutenant Dennard stated that he believed all members of the S.A.T.C. would have a chance to see foreign service. The “sailing” date for the men who go for aviation has not been announced, but the men for the infantry leave Thursday, and those for the machine gun camp leave Friday. The men going into the aviation section go from here to Atlanta for examination, then return here until they are notified of their acceptance or rejection. The men who leave are: For machine gun service at Camp Hancock, Augusta, Ga.: L.B. Schenck, A.I. Wilson, A.P. Ormond, J.C. McCaskill, and George Robson. For infantry service at Camp Gordon, Atlanta, Ga.: A.J. Robins, T.H. Wilson, H.G. Lally, W.G. McKeldin, Maylon Blue, T.H. Prichard, F.M. Spann, F.S. DesChamps, J.A. McQueen, and J.M. Barnhart. For aviation: G.W. Marvin, A.M. Erman, A.B. Brodham, T. Mackey, W.E. Crouch, W.E. Harrell, A.G. Robinson, and J.R. Boswell.

BAYONET COURSE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
If the war is over, does it necessarily mean that the S.A.T.C. work is over? Does it mean the officers will be slack in the military training which they are giving us? No, the military training and discipline shall continue just the same. Last Friday afternoon Company B began its training in trench digging. On the old tennis courts which are on the north side of Concord Street, just across the street from Lieutenant Dennard’s home, is located the bayonet court. The first line trench is at the west end of the court. Between the first and second line trench there is a line of dummies, some standing and some lying down. As the boys go “over the top” of the first trench, they strike with their bayonets each dummy that they come to. There is also a second line of dummies just in front of the third trench, which must also be struck. It might be said that this third trench will be six feet wide and will contain about two feet of water. It will be up to the boys to either do a good job of jumping this trench or they will be soaked. While the boys over there have stopped sticking their bayonets through Fritz, the boys over here have just begun.

C.A. McGiet '99 has been called home by his draft board.