The DAVIDSONIAN, January 30, 1918

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, February 2: Resolved, That the successful promotion of the war demands that all citizens of Germany, Austria,
Bulgaria, and Turkey, residing in the United States, be interned for the period of the war.

Philanthropic — Affirmative: Knox, Stone, and Stogner. Negative: Thames, Davenport, and Grey. Orations: L. L. McAlister, Worth, and Hunter. Extemporaneous
debate: Calhoun and Dunlap.

Eumenean — Affirmative: Honeycutt, Boulware, and Good. Negative: Frierson, Heizer, and Mahood. Declamations: W. P. Cumming and J. C. McCaskill.

Phi Junior — Affirmative: Morrison and Witherspoon. Negative: W. C. Knight and Long. Declamations: Kiser and W. C. Hodgin.

The meeting of the Eumenean Society Saturday night was devoted largely to the election of third-term officers. Several grand bursts
of oratory were given in the nominating speeches, interspersed with voluminous cheering. When the votes were counted, it was found
that J. R. Woods had been elected president; R. B. Cunningham, vice-president; G. A. Byrd, secretary; R. W. Cousar, reviewer;
R. W. Cousar, valedictorian; Emory Flinn, respondent; and “Tubby” McPheeters, grand ruler of the universe. One Freshman and two old
men were received into the society. The Freshman made a short but eloquent speech, while the two old men enlightened
the society on the question, “Resolved, That I am a better man than you are.”

The Philanthropic Society held its regular meeting on last Saturday night. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That the proposed
Peace League should be adopted at the close of the war.” The affirmative was upheld by G. McDonald, the negative
by L. L. Wilson. McDonald contended that peace was attained only through cooperation, while Wilson contended that the proposed Peace
League would be contrary to the customs of the United States and that it does not go far enough. The
judges decided in favor of the negative. The society then enjoyed interesting orations on “Our Progress in the Air,” by
Peters; “Our Duty,” by McClure; and “Our Calamity,” by Hart. Following this was a spirited extemporaneous debate on “Resolved, That
Intercollegiate Athletics are injurious to the student body as a whole.” J. W. Clark supported the affirmative and W. C.
Neel the negative. Clark also gave some timely hints regarding needed reforms in the society. The judges decided unanimously in
favor of the affirmative.

DEBATING “REPS” AWARDED MONDAY NIGHT

Last Monday night in the Eumenean Society there were six members who entered into competition for the “reps” for the
debating team. The competitors were at liberty to make their own selections of the side they would uphold, which resulted
in one man selecting the affirmative, and five the negative. Cousar was the unassisted contender, and Bellingrath, J. R. Woods,
Wm. Love, Flinn, and Potts made up the side that took the opposition. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, That
the successful prosecution of the war requires that all the citizens of Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, and Turkey, now residing in
this country, should be interned during the period of the war.” Cousar, representing the affirmative, contended that, first, enemy aliens
are impeding the prosecution of the war; second, internment will put an end to propaganda and destruction of property; third,
they are destroying property by fire, and in that way are rendering great damage to the nation, and creating a
great impediment to...

J. A. Thames, W. C. Cumming, W. M. Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

The Vanderbilt Hustler — A movement has been started at Vanderbilt to procure two service flags for the university. A
memorial of some kind was desired for all those who have entered the Army from Vanderbilt. A dime from each
professor and student will make possible these service flags, fitting remembrances of those who have gone from Vanderbilt to their
country's call.the successful prosecution of the war. The other five men, upholding the negative side of the question, put forth
these arguments: Such a course would not be in accordance with international law; it would be an unnecessary addition to
our legislation; it would not be practicable; it would be an economic mistake; sufficient precaution has already been taken; Turks
and Bulgarians could not be included; it is not necessary for the successful prosecution of the war. The debates were
all well gotten up, and were written and delivered in a convincing way, strengthened with verifying statistics and good authority.
The winners of the "reps" were R. W. Cousar, A. S. Potts, Win. Love, and J. R. Woods, with C.
G. Bellingrath as alternate. In the Phi Society, the affirmative was upheld by Messrs. McClure and Thames, who showed that
the spy system had not yet been met successfully and that the proposed plan would accomplish this. The negative, defended
by Messrs. Chalmers, Howell, Cumming, Currie, Edwards, and F. L. Knight, proved that the spy was too sharp to be
caught by this clumsy method and that the harm done to American labor would be very great. It was also
brought out that the cost of internment would be excessive. After rather spirited rejoinders, the three judges, Drs. Arbuckle, Harding,
and Richards, decided in favor of Messrs. Currie and F. L. Knight. The finals are to be held in two
weeks. The mistakes of love are better than the perfections of selfishness.—Ev.

See Our Line of Florsheim Dress Shoes Also ARMY Shoes

THE SOUTHERN SERVES THE SOUTH

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See H. L. WAS.AAN

Hello, Fellows! We wish to announce to the Faculty and Student Body of Davidson College that the Crowell Clothing Co.,
of Statesville, N. C., will give a Tailoring Display with your Mr. John B. Daffin in a very short time,
for Spring suits. We will also make several displays on "The Hill" during the month of March, showing a WONDERFUL
line of Haberdashery, including Hart, Schaffner & Marx, SOCIETY BRAND, Bloch & Kirschbaum Clothes of Philadelphia, in Ready-Made Suits. A
large assortment of Earl & Wilson Shirts, including many "Nifty" patterns and shades in Silks. Kaiser Neckwear and several other
makes. Men's Sox in fancy stripes and solid colors; linen and silk soft collars, white and "Silk Stripes." Talk it
over with Daffin and find out just what we are going to do. Let us make your TAILORED SUIT for
Spring.

CROWELL CLOTHING CO. WITH JOHN B. DAFFIN

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to
be found on the Hill.

Gilmer Moore Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. South Tryon St. Rutledge Norton Next door to Post
Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-J Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson
Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N.C.

L. C. BRAND, 77 Chambers A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.
