THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 27, 1918. Vol. V.

Davidson Debaters Defeat LaFayette
Wins Four to One Decision Over Pennsylvanians.

Last Friday evening, in the auditorium of the State Normal, at Greensboro, Davidson College won a high honor when her
debating team met the Lafayette team and came off victorious. It was a clean victory from a worthy opponent, and
one of which Davidson is justly proud.

The subject for debate was, “Resolved, That the successful prosecution of the war requires that all citizens of Germany, Austria,
Bulgaria, and Turkey, now residing in this country, be interned until peace is secured.” Messrs. J. R. Woods, J. I.
Fowle, and J. A. Thames represented Davidson, and debated the affirmative side of the question. The Lafayette team was composed
of Messrs. R. W. Chase, C. F. Fryling, and C. D. Smeltzer. This team had just come from Washington, where
they triumphed over George Washington University, debating the same side of the same question; but they were powerless before the
facts, oratory, and teamwork of our men.

The first speaker of the evening was Mr. J. R. Woods. He contended that one of the most serious problems
that the war has brought to the United States is that of the enemy alien, and he sought to prove
that it was entirely practical for our government to effectively intern our enemy aliens. He then outlined the arguments of
the affirmative.

Mr. Chase opened the argument for the negative by saying that it would violate the promises of our government to
intern the aliens and that such a course would mean the taking into custody of many harmless men in order
to get one harmful man. He predicted that many aliens, though friendly before internment, would seek revenge when liberated.

Mr. Fowle, in a fine speech, continued the debate for Davidson. He showed the great amount of damage that has
been done by aliens to property in this country, and the danger that arises from enemy propaganda, making it necessary
that the aliens be interned.

Mr. Fryling’s argument was that it would be very detrimental to our industries to intern the aliens. He showed the
great number of foreigners in our industries and quoted authority for the statement that without foreign labor the Bethlehem Steel
Works and the coal mines would have to close.

The last speaker for Davidson, Mr. Thames, argued that internment is just; that the United States government has the power
to pass any law necessary for the successful prosecution of the war; that the use of alien labor was very
detrimental to our industries, and that the proposed plan was a remedy for the existing conditions. He closed with a
summary of the affirmative speeches.

Mr. Smeltzer argued very forcefully that the animosity towards aliens was due to the hysteria of the times and that
they were often blamed for damage done by other nationalities, or which comes in the natural course of events. He
contended that the secret service department (Continued on page 6)

Camp Greene Team Defeats Wildcats
Fine Pitching Holds Davidson’s Score Down.

Davidson College opened her 1918 baseball season on Wearn Field in Charlotte Saturday, losing to the Seventh Infantry team from
Camp Greene by a 7 to 1 score. The soldiers played mid-season ball, their teamwork being almost perfect. The Davidson
team played good ball, but their batting was weak and the fast fielding of the soldiers cut down the number
of hits to a minimum. Only a fair-sized crowd was out to see the game. A return game is scheduled
in Charlotte for March 27.

If the twirlers for the Seventh get to France and throw bombs and hand grenades like they throw baseballs, it's
all up with the Germans. Yorke's pitching was a good exhibition of perfect control and the Red and Black team
failed to locate his offerings. Martin, for the Seventh, got three hits out of five times up, one a homer
over the fence. Gallinger ran the team well and caught good ball. The work of Hengeveld in the box for
Davidson featured for seven innings. He was then replaced by Currie, who pitched the rest of the game. Hengeveld, in
the outfield, made a pretty catch in the eighth, pulling down a long drive after a hard run and a
nab. Errors by the Davidson team gave the Seventh several of their runs, but more practice will do away with
so many errors.

Davidson lined up as follows: Spann, lf; Boswell, ss; Flowers, cf; Hengeveld, p; Clark, 1b; Burns, c; Richards, rf; King,
3b; Ratchford, 2b. The battery for the Seventh was Baker, Yorke, Tillman, and Gallinger.

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson ....000 000 001—1 6 7
Seventh Inf. 220 101 02x—7 7 4

FRESH, SOPH.
Thursday 9
Friday 10
Saturday 11
Monday 13
Tuesday 14
Wednesday 15
Thursday 16
History
Biology
Friday 17
English
Bible
Saturday 18
Greek
French
German
Greek
Monday 20
Chemistry
English
Tuesday 21
Latin
Latin
Wednesday 22
Physics
Physics
Thursday 23
Bible
Chemistry
Friday 24
French
German
Saturday 25
Math
MathMay Examinations

SONIAN No. 24

Track Team Prospects | Annual Material Appear to be Good

State Meet Scheduled for May 4 — Five Varsity Men Back.

The men who are trying out for the track team have gone to work in earnest. Five of last year’s
Varsity — Grey, G. Crouch, Brand, McQueen, and Finley — are back in better shape than ever and are working
hard every afternoon. In addition to these old men, quite a number of new men are out and on the
job. Davidson's prospects in the pole vault, shot put, and distance runs are excellent, but good men are very much
needed in the dashes, particularly in the hundred yard. More men and pep will help out in these. Manager Grey
is anxious for all men who can possibly do so to come out and help to make this year’s team
the best in the Carolinas. The State Meet is only five weeks off, being scheduled for May 4. Efforts are
being made to arrange for a meet on the 11th before that time. With the time so brief, everyone will
have to do his best between now and the middle of April. Come out and do your part!

NEW SPARE MEN AND EDITORS ELECTED

The new members to The Davidsonian Staff that were elected at the last meeting are: Managing Editor, D. M. Chalmers;
Assignment Editor, D. W. Roberts; Staff Men, Emory Linn, W. M. Currie, W. C. P. Dunlap, J. W. Love. The
following men were elected to the Reporters’ Staff: Class of '19, Q. N. Huneycutt; Class of '20, E. G. Calhoun,
G. A. Byrd, H. C. Hamilton, A. L. Wilson; Class of '21, W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, E. W.
Romelfanger, A. M. Mitchell, I. B. Schenck.

SENIOR

Bible education
Math 4
Astronomy
Physics
Church History
Spanish
History
Chemistry 4
Law
English 3 and 4
Greek 6
Chemistry 5
Chemistry 6
Political Science
French
German
Applied Math 2
Chemistry 7
Greek 4 and 5
Philosophy 2
Latin 3 and 4

JUNIOR

Economics
Philosophy
Biology 2
Applied Math
Geology
Chemistry 3
Physics
History
French
German
Public Speaking

Math Has Gone to Press

Its Appearance Is Eagerly Awaited By the Students.

Haste, thee, nymph, and bring with thee Quips and Cranks. So said John Milton several hundred years ago. If the
grim old Puritan then greatly desired Quips and Cranks, how now must his heart rejoice when he hears that the
1918 Annual has gone to press. Actually gone, and there but remains the touch of the printer's art, and the
yearbook of Davidson will appear, to spread a smile on the face and glad news in the heart.

The Annual this year promises several new and interesting features, both in the pictures and in the material. The Senior
pictures are mounted with a new style of insert and have characteristic snapshots of all Seniors, and the Juniors do
not appear in the same mounting as last year. This feature of different mounting is also to be seen in
the football pictures, which are gotten out in a pleasing style. Germany has caused the appearance of the Davidson Battalion,
which shines forth with all the resplendent glory of their grey shirts and wrinkled puttees. Not only is there an
abundance of the photographer's art, but the zinc etchings used are more numerous and more clever. Cartoons are present showing
college life, and the calendar is illustrated with drawings.

But it is in the literary department that excellence shows itself. In the line of mere literature, the Annual presents
two or three poems of high literary merit. It also presents some of the best humor that has come out
in the last fifteen years. Both in quality and quantity will this humor appeal to the reader. No pains have
been spared to make this Annual reflect student life and student activities, even if sometimes it reflects on both. The
members of the Staff have furnished the Quips, and the student body has furnished the Cranks. Take the instance of
the Senior write-ups — well, they are not on the cut and dried style of “Behold the paragon of perfection.”
If it is true that a hit student howls, the Annual will be a howling success.

Much attention has been given to the drawings. With their pencils, the artists of the Annual have portrayed the features
of college life in a manner both clever and laughable. They have converted the sine of Grougha into the tangent
of “Pee Hee.” “Laugh and grow fat,” says the old motto, and the artists of the Annual, probably realizing that
in these meatless and wheatless days, the body grows lean and lank, have furnished us with humor in the hope
that it will maintain our corpulency.

Some of the features of the Annual are: A novel and graphic write-up of the famous Davidson-Auburn game; a few
drawings in brush work; the section given over to military features; a “Hall of Fame,” where you may or may
not have the honor of being placed; the history and writings of the charter chapter of the “Aqua Club;” a
page depicting the Senior Speaking orators in action; (Continued on page 6)

Have You Contributed to the American University Union?
