2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year, by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers..... Managing Editor
G. A. Byrd........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF.
E. G. Lilly
A. R. Craig
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
S. T. McCloy

MANAGEMENT.
T. C. Stone... Business Manager
E. A. Turner..... Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample...... Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of ’20—L. G. Calhoun, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Wilson.
Class of ’21—W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

TO SUBSCRIBERS:
If your paper is not received regularly, please send your name and address in full to the circulation manager, who
will give it his prompt attention. If your address is changed during the year, please notify us.

EDITORIAL

IN MEMORIAM.
On the 5th of October, on the aviation field at Fort Worth, Tex., Lieut. Frank H. Smith, '16, was killed
in an aeroplane accident. Graduating at the age of eighteen, Frank Smith was one of the finest and smartest men
that has attended Davidson College. Dignified of appearance, sterling of character, brilliant intellect, generous of heart, a splendid orator, a
popular, all-round man—those who knew him in college remember him, and with the deepest of respect. There was many an
exclamation of heartfelt regret that such a splendid life should be snuffed out just as its time of usefulness to
the world had arrived.

When the influenza and pneumonia epidemic had swept over the campus it left behind it one sad spot in the
college life—the death of Daniel Currie. He was bright and cheerful, and already well liked in his short stay of
not much over two weeks on the campus. It is hard to understand why a young life with such a
brilliant future should be so pitifully cut off, and yet the ways of Providence are guided by more than human
wisdom. The deepest sympathy of the entire student body goes out to his home folks in their great trial.

Lacking just one day of completing her training course in the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, Miss Rose Stevenson, of Loray,
succumbed to pneumonia contracted while bravely nursing men back to health and strength here on the campus. Davidson men appreciate
this noble sacrifice more than they can express. Miss Stevenson’s brother, R. M. Stevenson, was a graduate of Davidson, and
this fact no doubt drew the trained nurse to come here to help.

A telegram received Sunday from the Hampton Roads Naval Training Station stated that J. S. Bachman, '18, died on last
Thursday night of pneumonia, after a single day’s illness. Up to the time when the paper went to the press
no further particulars had arrived. The news came as a distinct shock to those who knew him while in college,
and his classmates will hear of Joe’s death with sorrow. Quiet and unassuming, Joe was popular with all, his position
on the Student Council attesting to his high type of character. We all feel his loss deeply.

EXPLANATION.
The fact that no Davidsonian was published last week and that every issue so far has been only four pages
is due to the influenza epidemic which continually kept the staff and reporters’ staff short-handed and confined everyone strictly to
the campus. We hope our readers understand the situation. From now on, however, we hope to put out a live,
full sheet and make up for the deficiencies of the last three weeks.

WANTED—CARTOONS.
To make The Davidsonian what it should be, there should be more cartoons or caricatures dealing with the everyday life
on the campus. Nothing gives life and color to a paper more than cuts of such a nature. There should
surely be a number of artists among so large a gathering of young fellows, and the staff would be greatly
indebted to any who would turn their talent in this direction and draw for The Davidsonian cartoons dealing with any
phase of life on the campus—athletics, drill, barrack life, etc. Help us make the paper an interesting organ.

THE LIBRARY.
There seems to be a misunderstanding among many of the new men as to what the Library is for. Some
as yet are not sure whether they can go into the reading room or not, and have no idea what
the second floor is used for. Men, the reading room is open to all. The newspapers and periodicals were placed
there for you to read. You are urged to take books out to read for instruction and recreation. Miss Shaw
will gladly furnish any information as to reading matter which you may want. Use the Library freely and you won't
regret it.

COMPANY RIVALRY.
Anything that stimulates rivalry in work or play is of inestimable value in arousing interest and purpose in the contestants.
Company basketball has taken the place of class ball this year, and it should not only furnish recreation,but should arouse
a company spirit which cannot help but extend into the regular activities of the day, such as drill and the
maintenance of the general standard of each company. It remains to be seen which will prove to be the best
all-round company, but the sooner a company spirit or rivalry is formed, the sooner will the general efficiency of all
the companies increase. Every company has material for a good basketball team and there should be a close and interesting
series. And may the best and best-backed team win out.

NOTICE.
All men, especially the new men, who wish to report for The Davidsonian are requested to hand in their names
to G. A. Byrd, on the first floor of Georgia, before Saturday night. No talent or experience is necessary, only
a willingness to work. A competition will be held during the fall for election to the reporters’ staff in the
spring.

“Subscribe for a bond and allot five dollars” has for the past week been the slogan given by Lieut. Candler,
and has brought its results. The bonds subscribed by the students have aggregated $13,050. Lieut. Candler addressed the S. A.
T. C. men on this matter and brought out reasons for every soldier here getting a bond at this time.
The fellows have practically to a man subscribed, and furthermore will willingly give themselves and everything else when the proper
time comes to “drive a tack in the Kaiser's coffin.”

Exclusive Agents for DUNLAP HATS and Hirsh Wickwire & Co.’s FINEST of Clothing Ready-to-Wear Military Uniforms and Accessories CLAUDE BROWN,
Inc. 34 South Tryon Street

MISS ROSE STEVENSON.
Miss Rose Stevenson, who is remembered by a number of men at Davidson, died Monday, October 14, with pneumonia. She
came from Charlotte when volunteers were called for to treat the influenza patients. Miss Stevenson was an excellent nurse, and
worked diligently in her unselfish endeavor to bring relief to her patients. She was regarded with the greatest respect and
highest esteem by all who knew her, and it was deeply regretted when she contracted the illness that she was
treating, necessitating her return to Charlotte. Shortly after her return she contracted a case of pneumonia, which proved fatal. Miss
Stevenson had just finished her training at the Presbyterian Hospital, and was at the point of graduation when death robbed
her of the honor. She will be long remembered by those who knew her at Davidson. Her service will be
remembered and appreciated, and the honor will be bestowed upon her that she deserved.

In behalf of the staff officers of the local S. A. T. C., I wish to express our deepest appreciation
for the splendid services rendered by all those who took part in combating the recent epidemic of Spanish influenza on
the campus. We want to take this opportunity to thank the professors of the college and the ladies of the
town for their sacrifices in ministering to the student soldiers; also the physicians, who in addition to their already heavy
practices, gave much of their time to this work. We wish especially to express our appreciation to the trained nurses,
several of whom volunteered for this work and came from other towns to help out in the emergency, laboring day
and night, at the risk of contracting the disease themselves. The fact that there were so few serious cases in
proportion to the total number and that the recoveries were so rapid, speaks well for the promptness and thoroughness with
which the situation was taken under control. We deeply regret the death of Miss Stevenson, who contracted the disease while
at Davidson, and would express our heartfelt appreciation for her sacrifice and sympathy for her people at home.

First Lt. R. G. Dennaro, Commandant.

LIEUT. SULLIVAN TO ACT AS RIFLE INSTRUCTOR
We are glad to welcome Lieutenant Sullivan, who is to act as rifle instructor for the college. He comes to
Davidson from Camp Perry, Ohio, where he received his training. At present Lieutenant Sullivan is acting commander for Company “D.”

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled.

For the immediate future an indoor range is to be used for rifle practice, but it is planned to establish
a regular outdoor range later. The guns from the government have not yet arrived, though they are expected to arrive
in the near future.

Andrew Brown, '17, who recently was called into the service, is at Camp Pike, Ark., 162d Depot Brigade.

Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.
