Vol. V.

Juniors Have Chosen Subjects for Orations

Junior Speaking Drawing Near Rapidly. Have you written your speech? What is your subject? These and similar questions are now the familiar terms of greeting between Juniors. With Junior Speaking only a little more than two weeks off and coming nearer every day, it is no wonder that all of the Juniors are somewhat excited, for Junior Speaking is one of those memorable events which come but once in a lifetime. For several weeks past, the all-absorbing question in the mind of every Junior has been, “What Am I Going to Talk About?” But at last, the question has been settled. Some have decided to speak on the war in some of its interesting and varied aspects. Others have decided that it was their duty to add variety to the program, and they have decided admirably. Literature, arts, and sciences all come in for their share. So wide is the selection that anyone, regardless of his particular interests, would be sure to find something to his liking in each section. The following list, rich with promise of a feast of reason, gives the results of these late labors:

FRIDAY AFTERNOON, MCH. 1, 3 O'CLOCK

Music. Invocation. Music.

T. R. Alexander, Matthews, N. C.: Friendship.
C. T. Allen, Atlanta, Ga.: The Problem of the City.
J. R. Boswell, Penfield, Ga.: Scattered Nation.
L. C. Brand, Staunton, Va.: Spirit of Childhood.
P. B. Carwile: Originality. Music.
R. R. Clark, Estill, S. C.: The Power of the Movies.
R. B. Cunningham, Ga.: The Monster Sin.
W. M. Currie, Carthage, N. C.: The Coming Change.
H. W. Davenport, Mount Holly, N. C.: Imagination.
H. B. Dendy, Hartwell, Ga.: Get The Fit.
W. T. Dunlap, Charlotte, N. C.: Explosives.

FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 1, 7:30

Music. Invocation. Music.

Emery Flinn, Atlanta, Ga.: Camouflage.
R. C. Garth, Hickory, N. C.: Mexico—Enemy or Ally.
S. M. Gilbert, Dalton, Ga.: Our Flag.
L. P. Good, York, S. S.: Ambition.
R. D. Hall, Belmont, N. C.: The Sleeping Giant.
W. A. Hall, Suffolk, Va.: The Secrets of the Hohenzollerns. Music.
O. P. Hart, Mooresville, N. C.: “They Shall Not Pass.”
Clewell Howell, Wilmington, N. C.: Omnipotence.

(Continued on page 6)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 13, 1918.

Game With Eastern Thursday Night

Clemson Contest Postponed One Week—V. P. I. Game Cancelled.

Eastern College invades the lair of the Wildcats for a basketball game Thursday night. So far they have been having a good season, but the victorious Davidson quintet intend to take their measure in short order. The Davidson quintet will, in all probability, use several of their second string men, since Hengeveld and King are somewhat out of condition. The student body should turn out in full force to see our second game on the Hill. Clemson will play us here on the 19th, Tuesday. It is probable that the Scrubs will play Bailey Military Institute, of Greenville, S. C., some night this week.

"D" CLUB HOLDS ELECTION AND INITIATION

The Wearers of the "D" Club held an interesting meeting last Wednesday evening in the "D" room at the new gymnasium. At this time, the new football, track, and baseball letter men of last year were duly initiated. The old members of the club who were present, consisting of Coach Fetzer, Hengeveld, King, Grey, Saunders, G. S. Crouch, Burns, and Brand, enjoyed the occasion from beginning to end. The new men whose names were published in last week's Davidsonian also enjoyed the occasion after the initiation when an enjoyable "feed" was consumed. Plans were made for the suitable furnishing of the "D" room and it was decided that regular meetings will be held from now on and a permanent working organization effected. The club would appreciate any banners, pennants, old and new, Davidson athletic pictures, that the students would care to loan or donate. The following officers were elected: A. P. Saunders, president; F. W. Hengeveld, vice-president; G. M. King, secretary and treasurer. The men initiated were J. R. Boswell, A. G. Finley, R. P. Richardson, McMaster, Spann, G. D. Elliott, J. W. McAlister, McQueen, and W. B. Crouch. A. R. Flowers and J. W. Clark will be initiated in the near future.

NO CLASS FOOTBALL GAMES THIS YEAR

Since the regular season for class football was spoiled by the bad weather, it has been definitely decided to leave out this feature of athletics this year. This year the prospects seemed to be especially good, and no doubt the season would have been very interesting had the weather permitted. This decision was made because it is now too late to begin the season and finish all the games before time to begin baseball.

SOPH BANQUET ON HILL

At a meeting of the Soph Class Monday morning, it was voted to hold the Soph Banquet on the Hill. W. T. Hall, Jr., was elected manager. The exact date has not been decided upon.

Debating Teams Were Chosen Monday Night

Teams Chosen for La Fayette and Roanoke Contests

Davidson's debating talent was displayed Monday night in a discussion over the question, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all interstate railroads of theUnited States.” Pen ambitious aspirants for positions on the intercollegiate debating teams threshed the question out to a finish. Messrs. Cousar, Thames, J. R. Woods, Wm. Love, and Bellingrath composed the team favoring government ownership and operation of the railroads. Messrs. Potts, Cumming, Knight, Currie, and Fowle made up the opposing side.

R. W. Cousar was the first speaker of the night. After introducing the subject, giving the origin of the question, and tracing its history, Cousar stated the clash of opinion of the two teams and drew therefrom the main issues of the debate. He then advanced two arguments for the affirmative side of the question: First, private ownership is essentially wrong in both theory and practice; second, government ownership and control offer (1) unification in operation, (2) economy in management, (3) a fair adjustment of freight rates.

A. S. Potts opened the debate for the negative. His argument was under first, can the government administer the railroads honestly? second, can the government regulate the railroads satisfactorily and adequately? third, can the government operate the railroads as efficiently as private corporations? After answering these questions in the negative, Mr. Potts showed that government regulation will solve the problem.

J. A. Thames then spoke on behalf of the affirmative. He proved first that private ownership is inadequate, defective, and unsatisfactory to the shipper, employees, and owners, (1) financially, (2) in rates, (3) in service, (4) in regulation; second, government ownership will correct these defects and provide a system that is (1) economically wise, and (2) financially sound.

Continuing the argument for the negative, W. C. Cumming asked the question, will the railroads under government ownership and control pay? After proving that this question demands a negative answer, Mr. Cumming showed that the proposed plan of the affirmative is (1) unwise, and (2) impracticable.

J. R. Woods followed with the argument that government ownership and control is expedient: (1) it will remove the waste of competition; (2) it will remove incentives to financial mismanagement; (3) it will prevent strikes. Government ownership is also expedient because it will guarantee future prosperity by (1) economical service, and (2) by enabling transportation to expand with growing industry.

The next speaker on the negative was F. S. Knight. He sought to prove (1) that change is unnecessary because the railroads are efficient under private own-

(Continued on page 6)

pital in Charlotte. His condition is reported to be unchanged.

SONIAN: No. 18

Illustrated Lecture On Negro Problem

Rev. John Little, of Louisville, Tells of His Work.

On last Tuesday night, Rev. John Little, of Louisville, Ky., gave a very interesting stereopticon lecture on “The Negro Problem.” Mr. Little is well qualified to speak on this subject, for he has given his life to work among the negroes in Louisville. While in the seminary at Louisville, Mr. Little, together with several other students, decided to organize a Sunday school among the negroes. At first, a small building was rented for this purpose. Later on, enough money was raised to erect a building. Not only were classes held on Sunday, but also during the week. Because of the great interest shown, an industrial department was organized. In this department, the boys are taught carpentry and other useful trades, while the girls are taught basketry, cooking, and sewing. Mr. Little now has two good buildings for his work. From Louisville, the work among the negroes has spread throughout the South. People are beginning to realize the vast importance of the negro problem. A campaign is now being made to get all Southern college men to take up a study of the negro problem. Mr. Little is making a tour of the colleges in the South speaking in the interest of this campaign. After the lecture Tuesday night, a canvass of the student body was made and seventy new men signed up for a study of the negro problem. There are twenty-five who have already been making a study of this subject.

ANNAPOLIS APPOINTMENTS RECEIVED BY STUDENTS

Several Davidson students have recently received appointments to the United States Naval Academy from this Congressional District. A competitive examination was held by Congressman Webb, at Shelby, in January, for the purpose of filling four vacancies at Annapolis, and out of nine men taking the examination, Pat Robson, ‘19, received the highest grade and was given the first appointment, a signal distinction. F. P. Hall, Jr. of the same class, and W. J. Martin, Jr., ‘20, also received appointments. R. D. Hall, ‘19, was nominated but was disqualified on account of his being over the age limit. The entrance examinations will be held April 16, and those passing will enter the naval school in June.

INFIRMARY INMATES

The following men have been confined to the Infirmary during the past week: R. W. Wilkes, S. M. Gilbert, W. I. Knox, C. N. Morrison, H. C. Hamilton, W. A. Hall, A. R. Flowers, R. R. Deaver, Jr., I. D. Newsome, J. S. Hooker, S. M. Davis, M. R. Watt, and R. H. Stone. C. W. Robinson, who is critically ill with pneumonia, was removed to a hospital in Charlotte. His condition is reported to be unchanged.