Vol. VI. Davidson Takes State Championship | Football from Carolina; Score 14-7 In Fast Game, Featured by Long Passes, Wildcats Out-play Tarheels.

Before a comparatively small crowd, Davidson defeated Carolina, Saturday, 14-7 in a game that will rival any of the preceding games in fight, cleanness of game, and beauty. Those of us who were lucky enough to get to Winston will never forget that memorable occasion. For the last eight years, year after year, with the exception of last year, when the University did not put out a team, Carolina has taken away the bacon. In 1910, you will remember, Davidson defeated Carolina 6-0 when Richardson recovered a fumble and dashed 60 yards for a touchdown. Won on a fluke, you say? Well, perhaps so, but that game Saturday certainly was not. It was a clean-cut defeat, marked by the tenacity and teamwork of the Wildcats.

In the first quarter, Carolina started off with a rush, and it looked for a while that Carolina would have a walk-away. Her quick get-off and driving plays soon placed the ball one foot from D. C.’s goal line. Carolina had three downs to put it across. Then came in some of the prettiest exhibitions of defensive football seen on Prince Albert field in many a year. Every time the ball was snapped, Massey, Fischel, and Crouch were right in front of the play, and there it stopped. After three line plunges, the ball went over. No doubt but that if Carolina had tried an end run she could have made the necessary foot, but at line plunges she was stalled. Spann easily passed the ball out of danger.

The other feature of the game was the long run around end by Johnson. This boy received a short pass from Spann and ran 80 yards with the ball, running out of bounds on the 10-yard line. After another pass had failed, Johnson went around end for a touchdown. Carolina's team showed up well at first, in fact, clearly outclassed Davidson in the first few minutes of play, but she soon wore out. However, coming back strong at the beginning of the second half, by a series of passes and line plunges by Ferrington and Lowe, carried the ball over, but at no other time during the game was D. C.'s goal in danger.

The game by quarters was as follows:

Davidson kicks off to Carolina, McNeely returning 25 yards. McNeely fails to gain. Ferrington gains 8 yards through center. Pharr gains 3 yards through center. First down. Pharr gains 3 yards over left guard. McNeely gains 1 yard through center. Lowe gains 18 yards over right tackle. McNeely gains 2 yards over left tackle. Pharr fails to gain around right end. Ferrington fails to gain. McNeely fails to gain. Pass broken up by White. Ball goes over. Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 35-yard line. Johnson punts to Carolina, Pharr returning 2 yards. Ferrington gains 4 yards through center. Pharr gains 4 yards over right tackle. Ferrington gains 2 yards over center. First down. McNeely fails to gain. Carolina penalized 10 yards for holding. Pharr gained 1 yard through center. Ferrington punts 40 yards to Spann, who returns 25 yards. Johnson gains 6 yards over center. Spann gains 1 yard over center. Massie gains 10 yards over right tackle. First down. Brown intercepts pass. Carolina's ball on Davidson's 50-yard line. Ferrington gains 15 yards through line. Lowe gains 1 yard over tackle. Ferrington gains 5 yards through center. Pharr gains 4 yards over center. First down. Ferrington gains 4 yards through center. Pharr gains 5 yards over left tackle. Ferrington gains 2 yards. First down. Lowe gains 2 yards. Lowe lost 1 yard. Ferrington failed to gain. Ball goes over. Davidson's ball on own 15-yard line. Spann gains 5 yards around left end. Time out for Davidson. Johnson gains 1 yard over right guard. Johnson punted 40 yards and Pharr returns 10. Ferrington failed to gain over center. Lowe gains 1 yard through center. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Lowe gains 1 yard. Pharr gets 1 yard over right tackle. Quarter up. Score: 0-0.

SECOND QUARTER.

Carolina's ball on Davidson's 25-yard line. Pharr gains 2...vards; Pharr gains 3 yards; Lowe failed to gain; Pharr gains 1 yard over left guard; Pharr gains 1 yard over center; Ferrington failed to gain. Ball goes over. (Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1918. No. 8

Davidson Leads All Colleges Per Capita In Recent United War Work Campaign

Co. “D” Walked Over Co. “C” In Football

Winston-Salem wasn't the only place where football was played Saturday. While the Varsity was in action on foreign, but neutral ground, there was a “civil war” at home—Companies C and D were locked in a desperate football match.

At the beginning of the game, the team of Company D, the heavier, showed better form and gave the impression that even if they couldn't beat C in basketball, they could win from them in football; and the victory which they did win satiated their desire for revenge. The game was devoid of any sensational plays, but, forgetting the looseness of play and lack of teamwork on both sides, it was a very delightful affair. Every man fought hard and evinced at times the “do or die” spirit, so it would be difficult to eulogize each man separately.

However, the line plunging of Price and the end run of Alexander for a touchdown for Company D should deserve mention, while the work of Company C's backfield, light though it was, quite redeemed their lost chances of scoring. D's second and last touchdown came in the third quarter when Ratchford received a pass on the 20-yard line and carried the ball around the right end for a touchdown; Denny kicked the goal. Final score: Company D 13, Company C 0.

The line-up was as follows:
“C” Position “D”
Bryce, S. D. LE O. O. Moore
Byrd LT Summers
Graham LG Johnson
McPheeters C Dupree
Massie, C. F. RG Humphries
Kiver RT Brice, R. M.
Cochran RE Ratchford
W. S. Walker QB Denny
Ratchford LHB Alexander
Ormand RHB Price
Vance FB Scott

Substitutes: Knight for Johnson.
Referee: Phillips; Linemen: Garth and Harrell; Time: Twelve-minute quarters.

DANCE SCHEDULED FOR EIGHTH DAY OF NEXT WEEK

On the eighth day of next week, Companies A, B, C, and D will gaily participate in a dance held in the gym. The fair sex will be well represented from the surrounding metropoli and there will be no chaperone present. The gym floor will be waxed to perfection, and old Davidson will see one of the finest dances in its history. Spence and R. T. B. L. E. Liston will have charge of all arrangements, and it is confidently believed that the whole affair will be a complete success. Owing to unavoidable interruptions, no such ceremonies could be fit into the rigid schedule up to the present, but the campus will undergo a round of festivities between now and Christmas.

Whirlwind Campaign Lasted One Hour. $7,179.50 Raised.

Davidson went “over the top” in her United War Work Campaign. Last spring in the Red Cross Campaign, the college was assigned $2,000. This amount was more than raised. This fall Davidson was called on for twice this amount, $5,000. When this allotment was at first made known, it met doubts on the part of a few. The amount seemed an enormous sum for so many college students to give. But whatever doubts may have found existence on the campus vanished when the spirit of the givers and their donations were called forth last Wednesday night, November 13. The sum raised was not $5,000, but $7,179.50.

The United War Work Campaign here had its beginning Monday night, November 11, when the leaders and the canvassing groups came together to unite and discuss plans. Dr. Arbuckle, chairman of the college campaign, presented forcefully the tremendous importance of the activities to which the money was to be given. Then Mr. Moore laid out the plans he had made for the campaign. The committees caught their spirit and entered active discussion. It was suggested that the committeemen sign their pledges before adjourning in order to set the campaign on foot. This was done, and the 50 members of these committees pledged $1,200.

The general canvass was set for Wednesday night. All four companies and non-S. A. T. C. men gathered in Shearer Hall to hear the objects of the campaign discussed. The news of Davidson's allotment and of the amount already subscribed by her committees had already spread to every man. Brilliant reports had been coming in from other colleges. All had seen the lighted blackboard and chart in front of Watts’ dormitory and knew that events of tremendous importance were presaged to take place within the next few hours.

Dr. Arbuckle arose and addressed the meeting, announcing Davidson's allotment and presenting the importance of the present campaign. "It is true,” he declared, “that peace is in sight, but our soldiers will need these war work activities all the greater.” The summary of his talk was that this campaign is “the greatest of them all.” He ended by saying, “Why limit it to $5,000?”

Mr. Moore was called upon to outline and explain the plans by which this money was to be raised. The plan which was then brought forward was one of company competition. The companies and non-S. A. T. C. men were to represent the great Allied Powers. Companies A, B, C, and D were to represent France, Italy, Great Britain, and America, respectively. The non-S. A. T. C. men were to represent the American home forces. Leaders McCloy, Woods, Chalmers, and Foreman were to represent the military leaders of these respective nations, and Leader McCas- (Continued on page 6)