6 The DAVIDSONIAN January 30, 1918

THE WAR AND SOUTHERN PROBLEMS

Perhaps few college men realize the tremendous changes which the war is bringing about in the South. Almost every phase of life is feeling this influence. In no place is this change more marked than in the supply of labor. The war has opened a great new industry for making munitions. Thousands of men and women have been crowded into these plants. The places of manual labor vacated by these white workers have been filled by colored people. Hence nearly half a million negroes have gone north during the last eighteen months or two years. This means that thousands of acres of land in the South are now lying idle because there are no laborers to plant and cultivate the crops. This is costing the South millions each month. Dr. Branson, of the University of North Carolina, said last summer in an address delivered at the Blue Ridge Association, that we were a quarter of a billion dollars poorer in crop values in 1917 because of the negro migration.

This large migration of farm laborers means higher wages on account of scarcity of supply. Rise in farm wages means rise in labor powers in mills, factories and all other industries, which in turn means increase in cost of production and hence increase in living expense for every last man. But higher wages is not the only reason why negroes are going North. If you read negro papers or hear negroes speak you will find the trouble goes deeper: Listen to this indictment published in a negro paper as an open letter from a Georgian negro to Governor Brown, speaking of the labor agencies who have lured the negro North. He says:

“First, mob violence and the lynchers; second, injustice in the courts; third, paying first-class railroad fare for fourth-class service; fourth, insults to their women and themselves on railroads and street cars; fifth, insults in public places, elevators and on the streets; sixth, the right to vote and bear arms in defense of their State denied; seventh, poor pay for their labor on the farms and public works, while convicts are often used to do the work free labor should be doing; eighth, poor schools for their children; ninth, no agricultural schools for their children, while they are taxed to pay for such schools for the children of their white friends; tenth, taxation without representation in the management of the government; eleventh, no representation on the juries; twelfth, in some cities and towns, no parks, playgrounds or swimming pools for their children, yet they are taxed to provide such for the children of their white friends; thirteenth, segregation into the sickly parts of the cities where the streets are poorly kept and often neglected; fourteenth, poor encouragement for their efforts to do right; fifteenth, the white church and its Christianity in the State, so far as I have been able to learn, except in few cases of sporadic nature in the Southern Methodist, Southern Presbyterian and the Episcopal Churches, is silent and passive on these wrongs. These, Mr. Brown, are a few of the labor agents who are taking our colored people away from Georgia and the South. Down deep in your heart, do you blame them? Can you blame them?”

We college men ought to be the first to understand these conditions. We cannot afford to miss our chance to help our Southland in this hour of great need. Every man of us should study first hand what this migration of negro labor means and should do our best to meet the situation. The call of the hour is for clear-cut knowledge. Get some books and read on the problem. Ask some man to speak in your college. Start a study group led by some professor. Get busy if you want to help your nation in an hour of need.

FRESH-SOPH NUMBER IS NEXT ISSUE OF MAGAZINE

Although the second issue of the Magazine has not returned from the press, plans are already on foot for the editing of the third number. This next issue will be anAttempt at a Fresh-Soph number, and the success of such a trial is now up to the members of these two classes. If anyone should question the object of this plan, here are a few reasons for it: It is hoped that it will be a means of stimulating more interest along literary lines among the Freshman and Sophomore classes; by so doing, there is the possibility of discovering special literary ability among these men, of making some “finds,” so to speak; and finally, it is a war entrenchment policy on the part of the Magazine. So many of the older men who are interested in writing are being or soon will be called away, and new material must be secured in their stead. As yet, enough of the younger undergraduates have not responded to offset this loss, but it is hoped that the Fresh-Soph number will be a means of recruiting several new men to this line of college work. All of you to whom this article applies, take notice! No doubt many of you have never even attempted to write a story, or poem, etc., because you possibly underestimated your ability. The success of the next issue of the Magazine is going to depend on you, though, so shoulder your part of the responsibility. This Fresh-Soph number will go to press about February 15. Get busy now and hand in your article to some member of the staff. They will only be too glad to criticize it and possibly use it.

GOOD ATTENDANCE AT JOINT MEETING

The Christian Endeavor, Ministerial Band, and Volunteer Band held a joint meeting Sunday night, January 27. The subject of the meeting was “C. E. Goals and How to Teach Them.” J. A. Thames, as chairman of the attendance committee, made a plea for better attendance at the meetings. In the open discussion, Roberts, Matthews, and J. R. Woods were among those making short talks. W. C. Cumming, as leader, summed up the subject in his talk, which was very interesting. He mentioned as two goals which should be before every Christian: growth in the individual spiritual life, and the desire to reach as many as possible with the Gospel message.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB NEWS

The following is the list of books which are being read by the Book Lovers’ Club this winter: “Triflers;” “I, Mary McLane;” “The Mischiefmaker;” “A Student in Arms;” “Rem. of Lady Randolph Churchill;” “My Home in the Field of Honor;” “Hill-top on the Marne;” “Light in the Clearing;” “One Year of Pierrot;” “The Family;” “Mistress Anne;” “My Home in the Field of Mercy;” “The Red Planet;” “Letters of R. W. Gilder;” “A Little World Apart;” “The Worn Doorstep;” “The Man of Athens;” “Leatherface;” “Bullets and Billets;” “Red Rugs of Tarsus;” “Secrets of the Hohenzollerns,” and “Dwelling Place of Light.”

The following students have registered for the spring term who were not here before Christmas:
Former students: D. S. Epps, J. B. Morton, C. J. Matthews.
New: R. L. Black, Davidson, N. C.; J. B. Smith, Elkton, N. C.; W. J. Martin, Jr., Davidson; J. S. Brown, Hendersonville, N. C.; C. G. Long, Matthews, N. C.

11 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR at WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses
The Rexall Store
WELL EQUIPPED LABORATORIES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
202 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.