The DAVIDSONIAN, February 13, 1918

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE.

Debate, Saturday night, February 16: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should control the distribution and consumption of all food and
foodstuffs produced in the United States, for the period of the war.”

Eumenean Society—Debate—Affirmative: C. B. Robson, Smith, Thomas. Negative: G. M. Robson, Sullivan, Turner. Orations: E. A. Woods, J. B. Woods.

Philanthropic Society—The same class that was to have performed last Saturday will perform this week.

Junior Phi Society—Affirmative: Deaver, Beall. Negative: Story, Fricker. Declamations: Poteat, Edwards.

In one of the best meetings since Christmas, if not for the whole year, the Eumenean Society last Saturday night
held a spirited debate on the subject, “Resolved, That Congress should create a Minister of Munitions and a War Council.”
All the debaters showed that they had worked on the subject, and the number of good points brought out revealed
this work. The affirmative was represented by Matthews, Mitchell, and Liston; the negative by Flinn, C. B. Robson, and Orgain.
The affirmative contended that the present plan was not as efficient as it ought to be, that the proposed plan
was better, that it would aid the President, that it would centralize the management of the war, and that it
had proven a success in England. Considering what a poor side the affirmative had to start with, all the debaters
did pretty well. The negative contended that our present plan is not a failure, that the proposed plan will only
complicate matters, that it would decentralize authority, that it is contrary to the Constitution, and that the very men the
affirmative quotes for authority have acknowledged that the War Department has been twice as efficient in putting soldiers in France
as was expected. The judges decided in favor of the negative. Several gentlemen followed the Congressional plan of rising to
explain this, that, and the other, much to the amusement of the House. The debate proved one thing: that if
you want to have a debate interesting, have an interesting subject. When we get back to discussing some old worn-out
subject like “capital punishment” I will want to throw up my job.

McGirt gave a declamation on “Civilization’s Debt to Athens.”

PHI SOCIETY

At the meeting of the Phi Society Saturday night, the regular exercises were suspended and officers were elected for the
next term. The result of the election was: J. W. Clark, president; C. W. Worth, vice-president; A. L. Fosene, secretary;
F. L. Knight, first supervisor; D. R. Freeman, second supervisor; J. A. Thames, first critic; R. B. Peters, second critic.
It was decided to initiate the members of the Junior Society into the Senior Society at the meeting at which
the new officers are to be installed.

THE NEAREST STAR.

In the American Magazine John Brashear says: “If you could ride from the earth to Alpha Centauri on a train
going at the rate of a mile a minute, you would reach your destination in forty-eight million years. At the
rate sound travels, if a song were to be sung on Alpha Centauri, it would be three million eight hundred
thousand years before we could hear it. This neighbor of ours is thirty-five trillion miles away. A spider's thread fromA
cocoon reaching to it would weigh five hundred tons. Not Metered.

“Maxie,” queried the teacher of the juvenile class, “what is the difference between electricity and lightning?”

“You don't have to pay nothing for lightning,” answered Maxie—Chicago News.

“Our earth in its revolutions on its own axis and its trip around the sun and outward into space makes
a journey of nine hundred and eighty-four million miles a year; but the old clock never varies; there is never
a jar or tremor, and we are back again on the hundredth of a second. Do you know it would
have cost me one billion five hundred million dollars if I had had to pay my way so far at
the rate of two cents a mile during my journey of seventy-five years?”

To ride from the earth to Alpha Centauri would cost seven hundred billion dollars.

If it’s FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE, or BONDS that you want, see the Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200
Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Straight & Wray’s Leggins See Thomas, 18 Rumple.

See Our Line of Florsheim Dress Shoes Also ARMY Shoes Brown-Knox Mercantile Company.

Have Your Typewriting Done by ORMOND, 16 R. Junior Speeches a Specialty.

Eat, Smoke and Be Merry AT CASHION’S.

HABERDASHERY OPENING GET RIGHT FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING

We will give our Haberdashery Opening in No. 1 Watts during the week of the 20th (Feb.) Our buyer is
in New York and will be down with a full line of haberdashery, including Hart, Schaffner & Marx, SOCIETY BRAND,
Bloch & Kirschbaum Clothes of Philadelphia, in Ready-Made Suits. A large assortment of Earl & Wilson Shirts, including many “Nifty”
patterns and shades in Silks. Kaiser Neckwear and several other makes. Men’s Sox in fancy stripes and solid colors; linen
and silk soft collars, white and “Silk Stripes.” Talk it over with Daffin and find out just what we are
going to do. Let us make your TAILORED SUIT for Spring.

CROWELL CLOTHING CO. WITH JOHN B. DAFFIN

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to
be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. South Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. Rutledge Norton Next door to Post Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-1 Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson
Men.

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House.

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Kodak Developing CUSHMAN’S STUDIO CHARLOTTE, N. C.

L. C. BRAND, 77 Chambers.

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See H. L. WASHAM.

Z.K. JUSTICE DENTAL SURGEON Office over Bank Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00.
