Alumni Notes
The DAVIDSONIAN, April 17, 1918

DAVIDSON SERVICE FLAG.
DAVIDSON'S HONOR ROLL.

Smoak Clandins Melvin, ex-’19, private in the Infantry.
Cranford Oran Steadman, '13, private in the Ordnance Corps.

Previously reported .......... 388
This week .................... 2
Total ......................... 390

Sergeant Harry Delos Williamson, ex-’19, has been promoted to Second Lieutenant, and is with Yanks stationed somewhere in Pennsylvania.

Private S. M. Crisp, '16, present address is 15th Co. K, 4th Tr. Bu. 156 Depot, Camp Jackson, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. Samuel W. Moore, Bluefield, W. Va., has recently served as a Y. M. C. A. secretary at Camp Gordon, Atlanta, Ga. He was graduated from Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., 1893, and from Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J.

VOLUNTEER BAND DEPUTATIONS

The Davidson Volunteer Band has sent out a number of deputation speakers this spring. Those representing the band are Brand, Cousar, W. C. and W. P. Cumming, McClure, and J. R. Woods. Cornelius, Bethel, Prospect, Center, First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, Mitchell College, and a number of Sunday Schools have already been visited. Speakers will go to Belmont and Gastonia the last Sunday in April, and will go to several other places, if arrangements can be made.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR IS LED BY D. M. ORGAIN

The Christian Endeavor Society meeting was led last Sunday night by D. M. Orgain, on the subject, “How We May Enjoy the Sabbath.” Orgain gave a short talk, first tracing the history of the Sabbath, showing that “Sabbath” means “cessation”—a rest from the labors of the week; then showing that we may enjoy the Sabbath by being active for Christ on that day. Discussion by members of the society brought out other thoughts on this subject. Not as many were in attendance as is usual, probably owing to the change in time, but it is hoped that the attendance will improve in the near future. It was announced that Norman Johnson, '15, would address the joint meeting on April 28.

The mother of G. W. Brown was on the Hill visiting him for a short while last week.

CAMPUSISMS.

Edward Lilly, '17, attended the Y. M. C. A. Conference at Blue Ridge.

Sergeants Colburn and Forbes, of the Allied Armies, were visitors on the Hill recently. Both these men have been in the trenches and are now stationed at Camp Greene, training our boys in trench warfare. They were accompanied by Corporal Inglebrett, also of Camp Greene. These soldiers were all pleased with the drilling of the Davidson Battalion and passed many compliments upon it.

A LIBERTY BOND.

“What good will a $50 bond do the government?” is asked. The government reports its own answer to that question.

A $50 bond will buy 14 rifle grenades.
It will buy 23 hand grenades.
It will provide trench knives for a rifle company.
It will furnish 160 first aid packages to dress wounds.
It will buy 10 cases of surgical instruments for officers’ belts.
It will buy 27 cases of surgical instruments for enlisted men’s belts.

And a $100 bond will buy five rifles.
It will clothe a soldier.
It will provide 30 rifle grenades.
It will buy 45 hand grenades.
It will buy 2,000 surgical needles.
It will feed a soldier for eight months.

Do you think it's worth while to buy a little bond? If you do, you may be interested to know that a $500 bond will supply bicycles for the headquarters of an infantry regiment. A $1,000 bond will buy an X-ray apparatus outfit or the pistols for a rifle company. And a $1,500 bond will buy an automobile ambulance. A $5,000 bond will buy a Liberty truck, or seven Lewis machine guns. And a $10,000 bond will equip three field hospitals containing 50 beds each. And a $50,000 bond will maintain a submarine for more than a year. These are a few things the bonds,large and small, will buy. So that when the solicitors approach you for a subscription you may know something of the value.

Mrs. Arbuckle entertained on Monday night in honor of Miss Fithian and Miss Woolsey. A delightful “advertising game" was played to the enjoyment of all. Those attending were Misses Fithian, Woolsey, Miley, Frances Worth, and Messrs. Richardson, Aiken, Grey, and Captain Lea.

SUMMER WORK FOR STUDENTS

For those who want to work next summer, there may be an opening in a navy yard. Col. T. E. Bland states that it is possible for Davidson men to go to some navy yard in a group. He has written to the Washington authorities about the matter and will let the students know what has been decided as soon as he hears.

Concord Presbytery convenes Tuesday night, and Mr. W. T. Thompson was appointed delegate, with Dr. H. B. Arbuckle as alternate. Mr. Thompson will be unable to go, so Dr. Arbuckle expects to leave Wednesday morning in his stead. Dr. Arbuckle will be able to attend only two days of the session.

INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE

Out of an annual correspondence of more than 50,000 letters, reports, and other pieces of mail matter received by the State Board of Health, there frequently come some interesting and unusual letters. For instance, in reply to the inquiry as to the cause of a death which information was needed to complete a death certificate, the advice given was, “Don't know. Died without the aid of a doctor.”

A few days ago, in the same mail came a letter from India complimenting the Health Bulletin, and asking for other popular health literature, an inquiry in regard to whether the hard winter had injured the Chinaberry crop and if they made a good medicine, and the following parody on Mary Had a Little Lamb:

“Mary had a cold one day,
It started in her head;
And everywhere that Mary went
That cold was sure to spread.

“It went with her to school one day,
It seldom is the rule
For happy children, bright and gay
To fear a cold at school.

“So the teacher came up close
Took Mary on her knees
Right then and there she got her dose,
And soon began to sneeze.

“So hack and sneeze became the rule
In that fair countryside,
The doctor made his many tens,
And new born babies died.

“Never, never, blame the Lord:
But learn this simple rule,
To keep your ‘bad colds’ to yourself
And cease to act the ‘fool.’”

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent.

Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres.,
W. H. Thompson, Csh.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.,
C. A. Potts, Asst. Csh.

Have a Premo Camera No. 1
Large sole leather carrying case; and metal tripod, which I will sell at a very reasonable price. All are in excellent condition.
R. B. PETERS
24 Georgia

The Wallace-Brough Co.
Have just received a new line of Trimmings, Flowers, Quills, and Neckwear.

Fry & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix ’Em Shoes
TRY US

Faculty Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

The Service for the Discriminating Student
The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
J. A. THAMES, Agent

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats, Fish, and Oysters
TELEPHONE 79-4

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH-CLASS SHOES?
Complete line of High-Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill
Gilmer-Moore Company
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.