i) The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. C. Williamson Circulation Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: A. M. Mitchell, B. W. Romefelt, J. E. Sanders, J. R. Boulware, Jr., and L. B. Schenck.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

“Perish the man whose mind is backward now,” saith Shakespeare. So get your college education.

Debating—a fine indoor sport—is not disturbed because of Quips and Cranks’ weather statistics: “Nineteen rainy days out of every twenty.”

If the Phi's have a Service Flag isn't there a great deal more argument for the student body's getting one?

Wonder if the manufacturers of baby walkers wouldn't like to bribe the makers of military uniforms not to be so sparing with trouser fabrics.

SERVICE FLAG NEEDED.

The Philanthropic Society has taken the initiative in the matter of getting a Service Flag for its alumni. A flag with a star for every Phi man “with the colors” will ornament the walls of their hall. This shows a fine spirit of enthusiasm and appreciation for those who have gone. In this action there is a good hint for the student body. We are just as proud of our alumni as the Phi Society is of hers. Wouldn't the auditorium look a great deal better and intensely more patriotic and wouldn't it mean a great deal more to you if on its walls hung a large flag with more than three hundred stars on it? We understand that this can be done for about ten or fifteen cents per student. We owe this to our enthusiasm and to the spirit through which we revere those whose stars we are going to get. Let’s have a student body meeting and get this without delay.

Many thanks to Miss Annie Walker, who, after many nurses had refused, went to nurse C. W. Foreman. We know of nothing which can excel this heroism. Our hope is that she may bring her patient to a perfect recovery and that this noble woman may not contract his disease.

The DAVIDSONIAN, January 30, 1918

OUR STATESVILLE ADVERTISERS.

The field of our advertising area is widening. This issue contains some fine ads from Statesville. Recently we called up these gentlemen—Johnston-Belk Company, and Crowell Clothing Company, and they gave us some business—just trying us out. It is up to you to make their ads pay. You will be glad to know these gentlemen personally. Give them your business and tell them why.

CLASS ATHLETICS.

The would-be football heroes will be glad to know that the afternoon drills will not interfere with class football; but that practice will begin as soon as the weather permits. There will also be regular class baseball and the Varsity. Davidson will maintain her athletics despite the war and drills.

INFIRMARY INMATES FOR PAST WEEK

The following men have been confined to the Infirmary for the past week: W. L. Roddey, Wm. Love, J. A. Shaw, W. C. Hodgins, S. T. McCloy, L. W. Fischel, I. N. Borker, O. C. Williamson, C. W. Robinson, S. D. Bryce, G. A. Byrd, Jr., E. M. Alexander, J. M. Gaston, Jr., T. H. Spence, A. C. Fairley, R. F. L. Liston, W. D. Dodenhoff, H. P. Murrey, D. E. Hipp.

Davidson College, in November, oversubscribed her allotted share of $2,000 for the Y. M. C. A. War Fund, most of the subscriptions being in the form of pledges. These pledges were due by January 1, 1918. Collection of these pledges has been only partially successful; $1,600 has been collected to date. The greater percent of the remaining $400 is due from those men who have left college. An attempt to collect this will be made in the next few days by the treasurer.

RED CROSS IS HARD AT WORK LOCAL

In the beginning of the New Year, the Red Cross workers found it would be necessary...to have a larger workroom in order to do the work assigned them by the head chapter in Charlotte. The Civic League very generously gave the use of their hall, and it was fitted for use as a workroom and opened on January 14. It was found practical to work only in the afternoon from 2:45 to 5 o'clock, and the workroom has been opened eight afternoons with the following results: One hundred and eleven present; they have made 150 paper back pads, 70 scultetis bandages, 53 rest pillows, 6 pairs of bed socks, 5 bed shirts (made out), 3 pairs of socks knitted, 25 bath cloths, many “scraps” cut for pillows and brought in. Contributed: One sweater, one muffler, one bundle of old sheets, one set of storage shelves from Mr. Blue. Honor Roll: Mrs. Archie Brown and Miss Frances Worth present on time every day; Miss Madge Potts and Miss Evelyn Potts only one absence; Mrs. Walter Sloan and Miss Archie Sloan, second honor. The Red Cross needs the hearty cooperation of the whole community. There is a part for every willing person, man, woman, and child. All can do something, and this volunteer work is something that cannot be bought.

PRESIDENT'S DEFINITION OF GERMANISM

Innumerable articles and many books have been written to define “Germanism” and show to the world what it means. In his message to Congress, December 4, President Wilson defines it as follows: “This intolerable thing of which the masters of Germany have shown us the ugly face, this menace of combined intrigue and force which we now see so clearly as the German power, a thing without conscience or honor or capacity for covenanted peace.” This thing must be crushed, and if not truly brought to an end, at least shut out from the friendly intercourse of the nations, says the President, and it is only defeated that the time can come when we can discuss peace with the German people.

STEELE CREEK PASTOR ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.

Rev. J. W. Orr, of Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, took for his subject at the Y. M. C. A. last Thursday evening, “Jesus has put His Kingdom in the hands of man.” Mr. Orr pointed out that all men that have named the name of Christ should always have an open heart for the Divine call, and having received it should gladly follow the call. He showed how Isaiah, when he saw Christ lifted up, said he was ready to go where he was needed. Also how Hosea, Jeremiah, Saul, and many others, were called, and, obeying, they were made great men and did a great work for God and men. He said that the possibilities of the courageous, ambitious, and God-fearing young man are unlimited, and that his chance to become a great factor in reconstructing the church after the war would be great, as there is going to be a great call for constructive lives and religious leaders when this great conflict is over. “God's call is to strong, sturdy, and courageous men, and may we all be able to say with Paul at the end of our lives, ‘I have fought a good fight. I have run the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of glory,’” was Mr. Orr's closing remarks. Do not let a Thursday evening go by without attending the Y. M. C. A.

Rev. D. A. McNeill, ’11, who has been a Religious Secretary at Camp Jackson, has been transferred to Camp Wheeler, Macon, Ga.

...Go to...

Armour Bro.’s & Thompson's for Dr. Munsing’s Army Last Shoes

Say, Fellows! Buy your Furnishings at V. Wallace & Sons. They carry the best line in Charlotte. Then bring your tickets to us and we will refund 5 percent on your purchase. Be sure to save your tickets.

Williamson & McDonald

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00

Spalding Sweaters
Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors, and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
ATLANTA, GA.

Either Black or Tan
74 1/2 BROAD ST.

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

THE COMMISSARY