The DAVIDSONIAN, February 20, 1918

LITTLE ANNIE JACKSON DIES IN CHARLOTTE

The whole faculty and student body were filled with grief to hear last Tuesday morning of the untimely death of Annie, daughter of Mr. F. L. Jackson. The death occurred in Charlotte, where the little girl had been taken for treatment. For some time she had been suffering with tonsillitis. This disease ran on into rheumatism, and then into rheumatism of the heart. Despite the efforts of physicians, the disease proved fatal. All who know them join in sympathy for Mr. Jackson and his family in their bereavement.

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, February 23: “Resolved, That the city manager plan of government should be adopted by cities having a population of over 10,000.”

Eumenean Society—Debate—Affirmative: Mitchell, Burgess, Craig. Negative: McCaskill, Boulware, Matthews. Orations: McElroy, Frierson.

Philanthropic Society—Initiation of new members and installation of officers.

The men in the Eumenean Society seem to be taking more interest in society work, as was shown last Saturday night. Every man on the program was present with something to say on the subject: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should control the distribution and consumption of all food and foodstuffs in the United States, for the period of the war.” The affirmative, upheld by C. B. Robson, Smith, and Thomas, contended (1) that it is necessary for the successful waging of the war, in that we are called upon to feed a great part of the world; (2) that the Federal Government can control this better than by any other means; (3) it is just. The negative, upheld by G. M. Robson, Orgain, and Turner, contended (1) that it would be impracticable; (2) it would be contrary to the democratic form of government; (3) another plan would be better. J. B. Woods gave an oration on “The part that the American College has taken in the War.” E. A. Woods spoke on the negative side of the question, “Should Japan adopt a policy similar to the Monroe Doctrine.”

At the meeting of the Philanthropic Society Saturday night, an unusually interesting program was rendered. The question debated was government control of foodstuffs during the war. The affirmative was upheld by Siske, Caldwell, and Freeman, who contended that government control prevented extravagance and waste and assured plenty of food for the Allies. The negative was defended by Morton, Peters, and T. C. Stone, whose chief argument was that government control was undemocratic and tended toward socialism. The decision was given to the affirmative. W. M. Currie gave an oration on “Germany's School System and its effect upon the German People,” while the subject of Mountcastle’s oration was “Military Highways.” The subject for extemporary debate was, “Resolved, That the college should require six hours of drill each week.” W. F. Hall contended that the drill should be increased because of physical benefits and military experience gained. Chalmers successfully defended the negative, arguing that better exercise can be taken and that present students should prepare themselves for after the war. The president announced that the service flag for the society had been ordered.ORR ME s- - - Bwesee. [pire rrr errr rrr] oom to oom hence The Mr. John Daffins—wonder line of nifty, men’s wearables.

McARN LEADS AT CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR

The Christian Endeavor Society held its regular meeting Sunday night, February 17, in Shearer Hall. The meeting was led by A. D. McArn, who gave a short talk on the subject, “What Our Church is Doing.” He cited the fact that the church’s work is divided into four parts: the local field, the home mission, the foreign mission, and the war work. In the general discussion, more interest than usual was manifested, with quite a few of the members giving thoughts and suggestions on the topic. It was announced that next Sunday there would be a joint meeting of the Christian Endeavor Society, the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands.

time. me. Will write you

Leather, Spiral and Regulation Puttees
F. A. THOMAS, 18 Rumple

BEST Things to EAT
CASHION & SON

Returning from New York. Mr. Crowell will give his haberdashery opening in No. 1 Watts between the 20th and 25th. Buy your clothes for Junior Speaking.
CROWELL CLOTHING CO.
WITH JOHN B. DAFFIN

great bereavement, in the loss of their youngest child, a child that had already endeared herself to all who knew her. She was an affectionate and lovable girl, one who brought joy wherever she went. Those who knew her remember the many incidents that showed her beautiful and affectionate nature. Sincere and heartfelt is the expression of grief from the wide circle of friends, for their sorrow is ours.

Lieut. Wm. A. Huey, ex-'15, was married on February 11, to Miss Olga Crosland, of Bennettsville, S.C.

See Our Line of Florsheim Dress Shoes
Also ARMY Shoes
Brown-Knox Mercantile Company

Have Your Typewriting Done by ORMOND, 16 R. Junior Speeches a Specialty

DAY LETTER
The Western Union Telegraph Co.
Philadelphia, 2/12/18

Found an up-to-date young Think all the boys will fall in love when they see same. Rest assured that I will see you in due You may soon when to expect
G. L. CROWELL.

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill.
Gilmer Moore Co.
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.
Rutledge Norton
Next door to Post Office.

LET THE DO YOUR PRESSING
Phone 69-J
Tafe’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Williamson & McDonald, Agents
Power House

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

If It's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE or BONDS that you want see the Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.
224 S. TRYON ST.

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See
H. L. WASHAM

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTAL SURGEON
Office over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00