2 The DAVIDSONIAN, March 6, 1918

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year at Davidson College by the Students

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: V. D. Johnson, M. E. Edwards, A. M. Mitchell, A. S. Potts, J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. L. Wilson.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

“Fifteen” for the Juniors! Camouflage in oratory and song, but the most enjoyed was the camouflage in reality at the concert and reception. Spring and warm weather have not proved that “Fire” is not attractive. “Attractions often prove distractions,” philosophizes one of our Staff. Mumps and measles like molasses and physics, it and not them, if you please. Rain for Junior Speaking has been inevitable. Many thanks for the delay. “Shall they who lack the skill to form their speech have skill to form the state?” inquires Euripides.

WHISPERS.
The text from which we wish to briefly speak to you is from the Agamemnon by Aeschylus: “And yet a people's whisper hath great might.” This saying, though spoken by a pagan thousands of years ago, is of great significance to us today. This week has seen a number of our college men leave for Training Camp. These men were drafted. These men were candidates for the ministry. Though they may be blood-thirsty, yet they have this higher vision before them. They went willingly. They realized that in the future, should they enter the ministry, they would have to deal with men, many of them, who had seen active service. If they had not gone and had managed to get out, they would have been confronted with the fact that their influence and power of leadership was hampered. People would say you are yellow, cold-footed, and without (the football term)—you would not go with us to France and you have nothing that can interest us. Here is just where the whisper of the people hath great might. Other candidates who were not drafted have volunteered because they realized the potency of the maxim of the old Greek. To say what attitude a ministerial student should take, we cannot. Professors are divided in their opinions as to this. One faction says, “Get out if you can,” while the other says, “It is not right to try to get out, for it will cripple the cause.” Both are downright dogmatic. The student is between the devil and the deep blue sea. If he could “get out” and wanted to get out, there should be something to overcome this “whisper.” The Government says stay in college. Yet “the whisper of a people hath great might.” To the virile college man above the age of enlistment, it should be shown that it is a patriotic duty to remain in college, that is if the Government really thinks so. Keep up the college, we must. To keep them to a standard approaching anything like the normal attendance, there must be something to overcome this idea of being branded a slacker if a student remains in college. A man with as much backbone as the lowest vertebrate—the amphioxus—is going to shun doing the thing which generates whispers.

INDIVIDUALISM.
Old Bill Shakespeare made a touchdown, knocked a home run, threw a dozen goals, delivered a Junior Speech, and preached a sermon in saying, “If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness: if thou beest a devil, take ’t asthou list.” This is just individualism, which is merely throwing all your powers into whatever you do, think, or say. President Wilson once said to his class at Princeton that if you want to be the meanest man in the world, be natural. There is a great lack of this in college life. If we must be concrete, the Literary Society program is usually positive proof. Many debates are just like the values of Taussig’s Principles of Economics—you can prove most anything you want by them. Some debaters weave in a beautiful way what so many supposed-to-be authorities have to say, and give little logic and reason. We have heard of a reviewer or critic who tried to inhibit the tendency in a student for giving his own opinions. This does not seem just. In a debate, one should argue and give his own opinions without making it purple with ego. One should be more like old Ibsen and Bernard Shaw, whose lives are individualism incarnate. There is no need of passively submitting to everything if you do not like it. There is no need of accepting some theory because someone has said so if you do not believe it. Stand on your own bottom whatever the world says or does, but stand with discretion.

Thru the courtesy of one of our reporters, we are publishing a poem written by the boys in the trenches. We understand that this has never before been published. We are glad to get some real trench sentiment.

ME AND MY TWO THIN BLANKETS.

I'm here with my army blankets,
As thin as a slice of ham.
A German spy, I think, was the guy
Who made ’em for Uncle Sam.

How do I sleep? Don’t kid me—
My bed tick is filled with straw,
And lumps and bumps and big fat bumps,
That punch me till I’m raw.

Me and my two thin blankets,
As thin as the last thin dime—
As thin, I guess, as a chorus girl’s dress.
Well, I have one heck of a time,

I pull ’em up from the bottom
(My nighties, my B. V. D.’s)
A couple of yanks to cover my shanks,
And then my tootsies freeze.

You could use ’em for porous plasters,
Or maybe, to strain the soup;
My pillow’s my shoes when I try to snooze,
And I've chilblains and cough and croup.

Me and my two thin blankets,
Bundled up under my chin.
Yes, a German spy, I think, was the guy,
And, gosh, but he made ’em thin.

Dedicated to his majesty (?) “The Kaiser,” with the hope that he will very soon sleep without even this much cover.

O. C. Williamson, '18, Coyte Hunter, '19, and W. P. Davenport, ’20, have left college, going to their homes, there to await the order to report to camp.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Germany does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat
Phone orders solicited
White’s Market
Phone 25-W

CULTURE AND THE COLLEGE.
Cornelius, N. C.

In the February number of the Book News Monthly, there is an article “Culture and the College,” which should be read by every wide-awake college man. It gives a picture of the college man and his room in the past and today. It gives the methods of the English professor of yesterday and today. This is short and entertainingly written. If you ever expect to teach English, by all means read it.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of Program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville

BULWER-LYTTON.

What do you know about him? If you want to read a good sketch of his career, you are referred to an article by Edwin W. Bowen, of Ashland, Va., appearing in the Sewanee Review. This article is a review of a book started by Bulwer-Lytton, added to by his son, and completed by his grandson. His life is an interesting one and is indicative of one more than a conqueror.

Your PATRONAGE SOLICITED