4 "Y" SERVICE ATTENDANCE WAS RECORD BREAKING

The sorrow of the student body at losing Mr. Moore, the "Y" secretary, was shown by the record-breaking attendance at
Shearer Hall last Sunday night. During the two months that Mr. Moore has been at Davidson, he has won the
admiration and respect of the boys completely. His sympathy with those in trouble, his fairness as a referee, and his
Christian spirit all combined to make him a man among men. It is indeed with sorrow that the college sees
him leave, for a man of his calibre is not often found.

After the preliminary song service and reading, Mr. Moore made his final talk to the student body. He took as
his subject the advice of Paul to the Corinthians: "Watch, stand firm in the faith, play the man, be strong."
Watchfulness, said Mr. Moore, is one of the most important duties of a soldier. Lack of watchfulness while on the
post of duty is punished by the supreme penalty—death. The fate of his comrade, the decision of a whole battle,
may rest on the watchfulness of the sentinel. And so it is in the spiritual fight. Unless we keep watchful,
the enemy is likely to steal in on us, unaware and overpower us.

"To stand fast in the faith is an injunction especially needed now by men in colleges, when there are so
many tendencies to draw away from the simple faith of Christ. Materialism, the 'I should worry' philosophy, and many others
are striving to undermine Christianity. But Paul does not by this mean one to be a religious fanatic. He tells
us to play the man, to be a man four square, and not a freak. Don’t play the fool, but
play the game fairly and squarely, whether it is easy or not. All the advices of Paul are summed up
in his final command—'be strong.' He means by this, mental strength, not physical. Paul was a weak man physically, burdened
with infirmities, but he was mentally one of the most powerful characters of his age."

Mr. Moore closed with the hope that those present would remember these four commands of Paul, and endeavor to carry
them out.

DEATH OF MRS. McMILLAN SADDENS STUDENT BODY

The Davidson townspeople and old students were saddened on Tuesday, November 19, by news of the death of Mrs. Sallie
Thornburg McMillan. Mrs. McMillan had been in bad health since last winter. Last June she moved to Charlotte, but continued
in ill health. Recently her condition became worse, and she entered the Presbyterian Hospital for treatment, where she remained until
the end.

Mrs. McMillan came to Davidson in the fall of 1915. During her stay here she won many friends because of
her splendid Christian character. During the last two years of her stay here she kept Dr. Shearer’s house, and won
the esteem of all by the care and faithfulness with which she attended him. While here she kept a boarding
house, and became very popular among the students. She was always willing to help in any way possible to give
the boys a good time. Many banquets and socials owed their success to Mrs. McMillan’s work, much of which was
done at an inconvenience to herself.

Besides her husband, Mrs. McMillan is survived by four children and two sisters: Miss Jean McMillan, Alexander, Robert, Harold, Mrs.
T. N. Smith of Davidson, and Mrs. Wright of Winston.

Pvt. William Love's (ex-'20) address is Co. A, 13th Regt., U. S. Marine Corps, A. E. F., France.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1918

NEW UNIFORMS CAUSED (Continued from page 1)

COMPANIES SWAP MESS HOUSES

On Monday last the companies changed mess houses. Company A was shifted from Mrs. McNeil’s to Mrs. Shumaker’s; Company B
from Mrs. Shumaker’s to Mrs. Brady's, and Company C from Mrs. Brady’s to Mrs. McNeil's. It is in the wind
that such changes will be made every month or even every two weeks.

As each man folded his "latest cut in suits" and silk shirts in his trunk, he felt no intense regret,
just that indescribable emotion accompanying the launching of one’s self into a new era.

CIVIC LEAGUE BAZAAR ON DECEMBER THIRDCivic League will hold its annual bazaar on Tuesday afternoon, December 3. It will be
held in the Civic League club room. The bazaar promises to be a good one. Mrs. A. Brown is chairman,
with several other ladies helping. All kinds of Christmas presents will be on hand.

Germany Does Not Keep Us From Delivering

Numerous clocks “went off” next morning just before “Reveille.” “We might not hear Bitzer's bugle.” This fear, coupled with the
knowledge that an inspection would possibly be made at Reveille for flaws in dressing, was the inspiration prompting the setting
of the clocks. But by the extensive practice of the night before, the extra time was not needed, despite the
fact that some fingers were “all thumbs” and a complex pile of strings, canvas, and khaki by the bunks.

After the Saturday's inspection was accounted for and the week ended, Sunday afternoon gave promise of numerous cameras and kodaks
carrying out once more their functions. How many mothers and “cousins” will get snapshots shortly? A few really had themselves
snapped at “port arms” and “right shoulder arms,” but most were taken “without” rifles. How vain is man! By the
time this is read, the novelty will have worn off and the men will be brilliantly arrayed in all the
glamour of a Sammie’s uniform, and, though not as gorgeous as some soldier of the far Orient, will present a
striking appearance of uniformity.

A word of description would not be amiss: This lot, the first issued, is a cotton affair of two shirts,
a blouse, and one pair of breeches, besides three pairs of woolen socks, two suits of woolen underwear, one pair
of canvas leggings (the kind known best as “rabbit hunting”) and one hat and belt. Strange to say, every man
drew a fit in the belt. The shoes are expected shortly, as are the overcoats, hat cords, insignia, and woolen
uniforms. It is true we have been soldiers since the first of October, and the fact that the uniforms were
so late in getting here is generally well understood. The inability of factories to put out their regular amount of
work as well as other unavoidable delays naturally resulting in such a time of stress. But now that at last
we have “them,” it should be the final exhortation to a soldier’s duties, for besides branding a man as “E.
Pluribus Unum” it should be a source of pride to him.

MR. MOORE TRANSFERRED
(Continued from page 1)

and Green, coming to us from the latter place. Mr. Rutland is a graduate of Auburn, and was, when the
war broke out, pursuing a theological course in the University of Emory. We are glad to have Mr. Rutland, and
shall endeavor to co-operate with him in all ways possible.

PAY ROLL SIGNED.

Monday and Tuesday were days of more anticipated joy. The men again signed the pay roll for their thirty per
for the month of November. The actual cash will be handed out any time between now and Christmas. Anticipation, however,
is the best part of an acquisition anyway—I don’t think.

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

STUDENT

He didn’t sell out—
Military Goods
O. D. Wool Uniforms........ $25 to $50
O. D. Moleskin Uniforms....... $15
O. D. Short Overcoats.... $10 to $19.50
O. D. Long Overcoats.... $27.50 to $50
Regulation Hats........ $2.50 to $6.00
Regulation Caps........ $2 to $3.50
Leather Puttees....... $3.98 to $16.50
Regulation Officers’ Shoes........ $10
FULL STOCK OF MILITARY ACCESSORIES
Belk Bros.
“SELL IT FOR LESS”
Address
MAIL ORDER DEPT.
DESK NO. 1
CHARLOTTE, - - - N. C.

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US
N. C.

E is right here with the best line of
CANDIES
FRUITS
and Other Eats in Town

L. A. ELLIOT
COLLEGE JEWELRY
WRIST WATCHES
ALARM CLOCKS
W. M. Torrence, Jeweler

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.

Exclusive Agents for
DUNLAP HATS and Hirsh Wickwire & Co.’s
FINEST of Clothing
Ready-to-Wear Military Uniforms and Accessories
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street - - CHARLOTTE, N. C.
