Vol. V. Maj. J. W. MacConnell Pleased With Work Hospital Is Furnished With All Conveniences. Base Hospital, Camp Jackson, S. C. March 11, 1918.

Editor Davidsonian:

Your recent request that those of us in service give you some idea of our experiences in camp is cheerfully complied with, but one is embarrassed by a richness of experiences and a censorship on the recital of the same, so you will be more or less disappointed in this note which must deal with personals mostly.

I have been stationed at this hospital since September 1 and have counted myself fortunate, for a camp could not be better situated, since we are on a high dry sandy ridge seven miles from Columbia. We have had no mud, though the winter was hard even here, and at first we did not have the heating plant in good shape, for the buildings went up so rapidly that the plumbers could not keep up with the carpenters. We have now 1,000 beds, and an additional 1,800 being built, and we have at present 110 nurses, 500 enlisted men and about 75 surgeons, so you may be assured that the patients are well cared for in every way. In fact, there has never been a time when men were so well cared for as in this mobilization. We have everything you have at home, good clothes, good food, steam heat, hot and cold water, good baths, plenty of amusements and sports, all of which sounds as if I was writing an ad for a summer resort. It is all for the business of war and things are stirring at daylight every morning, and as I write I can hear the rattle of machine gun fire and also the artillery thundering on the range.

I have a well-equipped ear, nose and throat service and my building is as well furnished as any private hospital and there is plenty of work to do. The old Davidson days would be as a kindergarten compared to the surgical work I do here, but my associates are of the finest and the work moves smoothly. I see a great many old Davidson men and have operated on quite a number of them from time to time. I can give no information in regard to the same. Ed Currie and W. W. Morton are around often—they are chaplains with the rank of first lieutenants and are doing good work. A number of Davidson men are in the Y. M. C. A. work and are doing (Continued on page 6)

American University Union In Paris Time to Help.

By all means she should join, must join! The Davidson boys, when they visit Paris, would never understand it if they were denied admission to and the privileges of this College Men's Club. This University Union has been organized in Paris largely through the influence of Yale University for the convenience and comfort of American college men who are fighting in France. Its constitution declares that its object is “To provide at moderate cost a home with the privileges of a simple club for American college men and friends passing thru Paris or on furlough; the privileges to include information bureau, writing and physical recreation, entertainments, medical advice, etc.” Membership in this union is open to representative American Colleges and Technical Schools. Davidson College has been urged to join, and will join as soon as the required hundred dollar fee is available. The object of this statement is to afford the students, the alumni, the faculty and the friends of Davidson the opportunity of helping to raise this small but most important sum for the sake of our boys “over there.” Let's everybody give a little bit, and raise the college colors over the door of the club in Paris. Contributions from a quarter up will be gladly received and devoted to this cause by Dr. J. M. MacConnell or by Prof. A. Currie. It has been delayed too long already. The following subscriptions were received last Monday morning: Coach W. M. Fetzer, $5; H. K. Aiken, Mrs. A. Currie, and W. H. Wilson, $1 each; C. K. Brown, 50c.

FRATERNITY INITIATIONS.

The annual initiation of the new men into fraternities took place last Monday night, the 18th. In accordance with the rule passed by the faculty and Pan Hellenic Council, no man can be initiated until after the first Monday after the man has successfully passed three-fifths of his work and the mid-term reports of the second semester have gone out. All men given below are Freshmen.

The men initiated by Sigma Alpha Epsilon were: J. R. Walker, L. E. Thompson, C. H. Hall, D. S. Forgery, L. B. Schenck. Pledged: K. A. Alexander.

By Pi Kappa Alpha: W. C. Gaither, C. M. McCaskill, P. H. Brown, L. H. Hendricks, H. E. Apperson.

By Kappa Sigma: H. P. Murrey, C. R. Vance. Pledged: G. D. Green.

By Kappa Alpha: J. E. Cassel, S. K. Harwell, A. L. Currie, J. H. Sample, T. H. Wilson, W. W. Carter.

By Beta Theta Pi: W. L. Roddey, G. O. Jones, J. R. McKeldin, H. H. Massey, J. R. Boulware, Jr., R. A. McPheeters. Pledged: L. Mackey.

By the Bachelors’ Club: J. M. Gaston, W. H. Miley, D. L. Mahood. Pledged: S. J. Hand, W. A. Foil.room, library, dining room, bedrooms, baths, social features, opportunities for Let them have your contribution as soon as possible as the matter DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 20, 1918. First Intercollegiate Greensboro. question. who speak in order named. W.C. Cumming is alternate for the Davidson team, and manager of the debate. For judges, there have been secured the following gentlemen: State Senator A. M. Scales, Prof. W. C. Smith, A. W. Cooke, postmaster; F. P. Hobgood, Jr., lawyer, and C. C. Paylor, president Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company. It is not likely there will be a large attendance on the part of the student body, although several men have made preparations to go, and with many others it is a case where the spirit is willing, though the pocketbook may be weak. Miss Dorothy Phelps announces the following marshals who will serve for the occasion: Misses Nell Robertson, Margaret George, Laura Linn Wiley, Sue Ramsey Johnson, Mabel Smith, Margaret McIver, Mary Wooten, Katherine Phillips, Anette Hathaway, and Edith Russell. Lafayette is a Presbyterian college at Easton, Pa., and has about the same number of students as Davidson. This is their first appearance in Southern territory, and all look forward with interest to the result of their contest with the Red and Black debaters. The men on Davidson’s team have done faithful work and are prepared to make a strong bid for victory.

DIXIE ENDEAVOR DAY OBSERVED AT DAVIDSON

The Christian Endeavor meeting was led very appropriately last Sunday by the president, J. G. Lilly, on the subject, “Why I believe in Christian Endeavor.” The day had been appointed as Dixie Endeavor Day. Some of the points brought out in the meeting for believing in Christian Endeavor were because it places young people in active Christian work, it is a training school for the church, it has a wholesome social side, it is inter-denominational, and because it has succeeded. It was announced that the Expert class will meet next Friday night in Dr. McConnell’s classroom. The subject for next Sunday is, “Remedies for Intemperance.” Better to sacrifice luxuries and non-essentials than sacrifice lives. Buy War Savings Stamps.

Debate Friday Night Forensic Clash With Lafayette

On next Friday night, March 22, at 8 o'clock, in the Normal College auditorium at Greensboro, Davidson will debate Lafayette College of Easton, Pa. The subject for the debate is, “Resolved, That the successful prosecution of the war requires that all citizens of Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, and Turkey, now residing within the United States, shall be interned until peace is secured.” Davidson has the affirmative side of the question. Her representatives are J. R. Woods, J. L. Fowle, and J. M. Thames. Lafayette is represented by R. W. Chase, Charles H. Fryling, and Charles D. Smeltzer. An interesting part of the program will be music by the Davidson Orchestra.

No. 23 Baseball Team Soon Ready For Season Four Games Arranged to be Played on the Hill

With the opening of the season less than two weeks away, Coach Fetzer’s baseball squad is being drilled into shape. The diamond is in excellent condition and the open weather is helping Davidson all it can. The “Davidson machine” has plenty of “gas” well-mixed and the tires are all right, but just at present it's “battery” trouble that's troubling Coach Bill. Currie looks good as a partner for Dutch Hengeveld, but a pick for a catcher is hard to make. Johnson and Burns are showing up best. Joe Miller is out of the running because of a sprained ankle. Cassell, King, Boswell, and McArn or Clark are working out like a “$100,000 Infield.” Spann and Flowers are taking in everything that comes to their gardens. Ratchford, Sample, and Black are getting better every day. The games scheduled with V.P.I. and Virginia have been cancelled by these teams on account of financial conditions. The date left open by the cancelling of the latter game may be filled either by Carolina or Wake Forest. The management had hoped to play V.P.I. on the Hill. Games with South Carolina, Wofford, Elon, and possibly Clemson will be played here. The schedule at present is as follows:

April 1—Lenoir College, at Hickory, N.C.
April 2 and 3—University of S.C., at Columbia, S.C.
April 4—University of Ga., at Athens, Ga.
April 5 and 6—Georgia Tech., at Atlanta, Ga.
April 8—Furman University, at Greenville, S.C.
April 9—Wofford College, at Spartanburg, S.C.
April 15—Wake Forest or University of N.C., at Charlotte, N.C.
April 18—(Pending) Trinity, at Statesville, N.C.
April 19—(Pending) Clemson, at Davidson, N.C.
April 20—N.C. State A. & E., at Gastonia, N.C.
April 25—(Pending) Elon College, at Davidson, N.C.
April 26—(Pending) Elon College, at Statesville, N.C.
April 27—University of S.C., at Davidson, N.C.
April 30—Wofford, at Davidson, N.C.

At a student body meeting last Monday morning, the following editors and managers of "The Davidsonian" were elected for the next year: J. G. Lilly, editor-in-chief; M. A. Siske, business manager; T. C. Stone, circulation manager. C. G. Brown, ex-’20, and Coyte Hunter, ex-’19, who recently entered the service, are at Camp Jackson, 22nd Co., Tr. Bn., 156 Depot Brigade. If our soldiers can give their lives, we can surely lend our dollars.