The DAVIDSONIAN, February 13, 1918

In spite of most disagreeable weather, the workroom had an attendance of 112 in the five working afternoons since our
last report. Mrs. Archie Brown, Miss Madge Potts, Mrs. Joc Glasgow, and Miss Archie Sloan have the honors this week
for unbroken attendance. The ladies have all proved wonderfully expert in cutting and folding the compresses which were allotted to
us by the Charlotte chapter for this week's work. Five hundred are finished and ready for shipment. In addition to
this, two bolts of outing have been made into scultetis bandages, and the paper-back pads were made continuously by some
workers. We have every reason to be much gratified by the diligence of the workers and the excellence of the
work turned out. We should be proud to show the work to visitors. The junior members help most faithfully and
acceptably. The four-year-old Mildred Fortner, in full Red Cross costume, is on hand every day and acts as a page
between workers. Miss Archie Sloan is wonderfully helpful in her untiring cutting and preparing of the papers for the pads
being made. On Friday afternoon, Mrs. Martin and Miss Frances Worth both being absent, Mrs. A. Brown and Miss Madge
Potts very capably conducted affairs in the workroom. One sweater and a few comfort bags have been contributed this week.
Much of the knitted work has been turned in. To Miss Gordon Baskerville is due thanks for making our splendid
Red Cross banner. (There has been no rush of volunteers to make a place to hang coats). We have the
lumber.

LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL

Red Cross News: We are saving now not alone for selfish reasons, we are saving now from patriotism, saving not
alone for ourselves but for our country. The combination of patriotism and thrift is indeed going to make the War
Savings campaign an epoch in our national life. It is not only going to be a thing of tremendous benefit
to millions of citizens, it is going to be a thing of tremendous advantage to the nation as a whole,
and affect our whole national life. It marks the beginning of a new era in American life, an era of
economy, good sense, and patriotism.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

The Florida Alligator—At a recent student body meeting, much interest was shown over the prospects for the Seminole, the college
Annual. The Junior and Sophomore classes have pledged their support to the Seniors, and the staff reported that the outlook
was bright for a fine Annual.

Orange and Blue—Final arrangements have been made for the annual debate between Auburn and Mississippi A. & M. on April
12. The contest will be held at Auburn, and she will uphold the negative of the query: “Resolved, ‘That the
Western nations should prohibit Japan from further extending her sovereignty over the East.’”

The Furman Hornet—A lengthy write-up of the records of last fall’s football teams covers the pages of the paper from
Furman University. The coach contributes an article, and there are individual write-ups for each member of the team.

The Brackety-Ack—Mr. A. D. Wright, a member of the Virginia State Educational Board, will speak soon at Roanoke College on
the Race and Social Problem in the South. Mr. Wright will visit every college and university in Virginia and will
speak at Roanoke College under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A.

HAS NEW PRINCIPAL

Rev. W. A. Jenkins, pastor of the local Methodist church, has accepted and entered upon his duties as principal of
the local high school. The former principal, Mr. R. H. Walker, who has been drafted, left during the latter part
of last week for Shipman, Va. During the time that he has been connected with it, the school has prospered,
and his many friends in Davidson will be sorry to have Mr. Walker leave. The new principal is a graduate
of...the University of North Carolina and later of the Yale Divinity School. He has been active in the ministry for
several years. These qualifications, together with his popularity locally, predict a most successful season from now until the closing of
the school for the summer holidays.

WAR SAVINGS.

“War Savings Stamps mark an epoch in our national life.”—Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo.

Many a successful business man has said that the saving of his first dollar was the most important single act
of his life: that it marked the beginning of a habit and a course of conduct to which he attributed
his success. Something very analogous to this, it is believed, is going to be the effect on the American Nation
of the War Savings campaign. Not only are millions of individual citizens going to begin to save, but this habit
of economy and saving is going to be a collective movement, a movement not of individuals alone but of the
nation. The habit of saving formed now has a deeper incentive than ordinary.

We The Weekly Bulletin—Arrangements have been completed at Emory and Henry College for debates this spring with Hampden-Sidney and Maryville
Colleges. Interest is running very high as both the colleges to be debated have a very high standing in the
forensic department of college life.

The Guilfordian—Dr. Madison Swadener, of Indianapolis, representing the Anti-Saloon League of America in its campaign for National Prohibition, spoke recently
at Guilford College. The speaker impressed his audience as much by his earnestness as by the context of his message,
and they were fortunate who heard him.

The Vanderbilt Hustler—News has been received at Vanderbilt that the Vanderbilt Hospital Unit which recently sailed from an American port
has arrived safely “Somewhere in France.” The news has caused general rejoicing because of the fact that so many Nashville
men are in the unit. It is understood that the unit will go into active service at once.

The Ring-tum Phi—The long anticipated festivities of the mid-term were recently inaugurated at Washington & Lee University. The Junior Prom
was held immediately after the basketball game with William and Mary. The fancy dress ball was staged the following night.
There was a curtailment of unnecessary expense as a measure of war economy, but the occasion was a great success
as the essentials, “the girls and the music,” were up to the usual standard.

Clearance Sale
All Men’s and Boys’ Overcoats
Buy Now and Save Money
Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DRY CLEANING
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
The Charlotte Laundry
1614 Chestnut St.
Oldest Largest Best
The Service for the Discriminating Student

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina
The College PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do it

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Official Fraternity Jewelers
Philadelphia
A. S. Petts, College Agent, 26 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

Onion Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., Principal

When in Mooresville Visit—
The Miller-White Drug Company
Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
I. I. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson

Gents’ Furnishings, Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to Faculty. Students

Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers
