THE DAVIDSONIAN  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., APRIL 24, 1918

Davidson Wins Its Second Debate  
Vol. V.

Wildcats Are Second In Quadrangular Meet  
Georgia Tech Wins First Place With Fifteen Men.

Georgia Tech won the big quadrangular meet held in Atlanta last Saturday. Davidson came in strong for second place, doubling the score of Sewanee, which took third. Davidson showed up better than any of the other teams in proportion to the number of contestants. Tech had fifteen men on her team and Sewanee had nine, while Davidson had only five and Mississippi A. & M. had one. Tech won first place in seven events, five of which were taken by Strupper, the individual star of the meet. Davidson took first place in five events, and Mississippi got first place in the pole vault, while Sewanee was found lacking in first place wins. Tech is confident that she will triumph in the Birmingham meet since she considers Davidson as her strongest opponent of the season.

The whole Davidson team showed up well in the events which they entered. Gray proved that it takes something more than talk to win the heavy weights, and plucked the laurels from the alleged Southern champion by taking first with the discus and shot put. McQueen took first place in the high jump in his accustomed way. Though Crouch was not well at the time of the meet, and had to contend with our strongest opponent, he added four points to the score for the Tigers. Brand and Finley had no trouble in shutting out the opponents in the distance runs. Brand took first place in the mile, in good time, while Finley and Brand captured first and second places in the half mile.

The events and the results were as follows:

100-Yard Dash — Strupper, Tech, won; Rae, Tech, second; Hammond, Sewanee, third. Time, :10 2-5.  
880-Yard Run — Finley, Davidson, won; Brand, Davidson, second; Ker, Tech, third. Time, 2:08.  
High Jump — McQueen, Davidson, won; Pollard, Tech; Blackwell, Tech; and Hammond, Sewanee, tied for second. Height, 5 feet 8 1-2 inches.  
High Hurdles — Strupper, Tech, won; Hammond, Sewanee, second; McClellan, Tech, third. Time, 16 seconds.  
220-Yard Dash — Strupper, Tech, won; Holst, Tech, second; Crouch, Davidson, third. Time, 22 2-5.  
Javelin Throw — McRae, Tech, won; Hammond, Sewanee, second; Strupper, Tech, third. Distance, 129 feet 4 inches.  
Pole Vault — Worthington, Mississippi, won; McRae, Tech, second; Estes, Sewanee, and McQueen, Davidson, tied for third. Height, 10 feet 6 inches. After winning at this mark, Worthington had the bar raised to 11 feet 2 inches, which he cleared handily.  
Shot Put — Gray, Davidson, won; Ellam, Sewanee, second; Hammond, Sewanee, third. Distance, 37 feet 3 inches.  
Low Hurdles — Strupper, Tech, won; Holst, Tech, second; McClellan, Tech, third. Time, 26 seconds.  
440-Yard Dash — Battle, Tech, won; (Continued on page 6)

Davidson, By Defeating Roanoke College Debating Team Wipes Out Defeat Administered by Roanoke Last Year -- Wins a Two to One Decision.

The second Intercollegiate Debate held in Shearer Hall, Friday evening, April 19, was won by Davidson from Roanoke College of Salem, Va. Prof. A. Currie presided over the debate, and Mr. J. A. McRae, Mr. David Ovens, and Rev. W. A. Jenkins served as judges. In opening the exercises, Professor Currie welcomed the Roanoke debaters and wished the audience a pleasant and profitable evening. Dr. M. E. Sentelle pronounced the invocation. The judges’ decision was two for Davidson and one for Roanoke.

The question debated was: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all interstate railroads in the United States.” Davidson upheld the affirmative and Roanoke the negative. The Davidson speakers were R. W. Cousar and G. C. Bellingrath. Speaking for Roanoke were B. D. Painter and H. J. Pflum.

R. W. Cousar opened the argument. He showed that private ownership with Government regulation has failed because it is fundamentally wrong in principle and it lacks uniformity. He painted a gloomy picture for the railroads under private ownership and argued that there was no hope for the future because of competition and anti-pooling laws. He stated that the railroads were natural monopolies analogous to the circulatory system and argued that greater savings would be effected under Government monopolistic ownership.

Mr. Painter, the first speaker for the negative, argued that it would be unsound policy politically to adopt permanent Government ownership. He stated that the number of railroad employees would hold the balance of power and thus create the temptation to curry favor with them. “What business firm,” he cried, “has over five hundred men on its board of directors, but that is what we would have under Government ownership with Congress in direct control of the railroads?” In this vein, he argued that permanent Government ownership would be an unsound policy from a business standpoint. In closing, he showed very forcibly that Government ownership had failed in other countries where tried, and reached the conclusion that therefore it would fail in the United States.

The rejoinders were spirited and to the point. The negative attacked Government ownership as an untried ideal theory and asserted that facts should be considered. They quoted ex-President Taft, Mr. McAdoo, and President Wilson himself as being opposed to permanent Government ownership. The affirmative attacked the argument as undemocratic, showing how it (Continued on page 6)Control, * Mr. Painter in opening for the nega- EVENTS OF THE WEEK. tive argued that permanent Government | - ‘ ownership and operation of interstate Thursday, April 25. railways is dangerous in principle as ithe Afternoon — Baseball: Davidson would tend to make our Government! - vs. Elon (pending), Sprunt autocratic and absolute and would — Field; game called 3:30 p.m. be against all the democratic traditions of Night—Y. M. C. A. Speaker, our country. Our country has the most Norman Johnson, '15, from miles of the finest railroads in the world, L.T.S. he declared, in showing that our present Friday, April 26. system of private ownership and opera- Afternoon — Baseball: Elon vs. tion of the railroads has been and is suc- Davidson (pending), States cessful. To substantiate this statement ville, N.C. further he showed by concrete instances Night—Fresh-Soph Declamation that on the average freight and passenger Contest. Eumenean Society; rates were cheaper in the United States time, 8:00 o'clock. than in any other country. He then ar- Saturday, April 27. gued that our present system of Federal Afternoon— Baseball: University regulation is able to cope with the rail- of S. C. vs. Davidson, Sprunt way problem by describing the powers of Field; game called 3:30. the Interstate Commerce Commission Night—Society; Important meet- and showing that in at least two in- ing of the Book Lovers’ Club. stances it had over-ruled the decisions of Sunday, April 28. State regulation boards. Morning—Sunday School and Mission Closing for Davidson, Bellingrath ar- Study Class, 10 o'clock. gued that general efficiency could be Night — Christian Endeavor, brought about under Government own- Ministerial, and Volunteer Bands. ership by routing traffic with reference Joint meeting addressed by solely to the needs. This would do away Norman Johnson, '15. with unnecessary passenger traffic, would Monday, April 29. save freight cars and would tend to keep Morning—Battalion Dress Pa- an open track by eliminating competi- rade (competition for banner). tion with other railroads and with mer- Afternoon—Field Day Exercises. chant ships. He then very ably discussed Night—Junior-Senior Debate. the financial conditions of the railroads, Tuesday, April 30. showing that they were absolutely un- Afternoon—Baseball: Davidson able to obtain the capital to supply the vs. Wofford, Sprunt Field; needed equipment, and that Government time, 3:30 o'clock. ownership alone would supply this need. SONIAN No. 28 Captain Allen Talks to the Student Body Speaks Vividly of Trench Life--- Says We Must Sacrifice. “This game of war is the greatest game of all,” was explained by Captain Allen, in the auditorium, Friday morn- ing, during the third period. The speak- er was a captain in the famous Princess Pat Regiment, of Canada, which saw service in an earlier part of the fright- ful drama. Captain Allen is one of the few survivors of his decimated company. Being wounded and unfit for service, he is drilling the students at Carolina. The game was vividly portrayed by personal reminiscences. The fright when first going into the trench was something fearful, so great that one thinks that he is never coming out. The speaker ex- plained a gas mask which he put on. The gas attacks and preventions used were discussed in their horror. To the audience he also explained the method of shell gas and the liquid fiery darts of the wicked. Speaking of the good conditions of the Germans he then said that the crucial point of the war has been in the last few weeks. He was in a position to know of the movements for the lay of the country and position of the cities seemed perfectly familiar to him. The man power situation was aptly discussed. Out of eight million popula- tion Canada has eight hundred thousand under arms. He spoke of the way in which England was meeting this de- mand. "The Germans will never be overcome until we are willing to make a greater sacrifice.” In trench life there is always something new. You do not become exhausted with one phase of serv- ice. He made a strong and urgent plea for better drill in college. There were unique descriptions and characterization of barrage fire, of trench equipment, excess baggage, casualties, British treatment of prisoners, of tank procedure, how men go “over the top,” pill boxes, how Germans get in trenches and get information, and of how nobody likes the bayonet. This was the most accurate and vivid presentation of war in action that Da- vidson students and townspeople have had the pleasure of hearing this year. It was a source of regret that Captain Al- len could not have given more details of his truly colored experiences “over there.” DEATH OF MRS. ROBESON. The sympathy of the entire student body is extended to our beloved libra- rian, Miss Cornelia Shaw, and her sis- ter, Miss Sarah Shaw, in the death of their oldest sister, Mrs. Mary Shaw Robeson. Word was received of her sudden death in Greensboro, where she had made her home, and Miss Cornelia Shaw left Davidson, Friday morning, to attend the funeral. Mrs. Robeson was the widow of W. Q. Robeson, and was beloved by her many friends in Greens- boro. She is survived by five children and several brothers and sisters, among whom two live in Davidson. Mrs. Robeson was a sister of Mrs. Page, wife of former Congressman R. N. Page.