The Forum

A CAMPUS FALLACY DISPROVED

By Henry Louis Smith
President of Washington and Lee University.

The proverbs or maxims of a people generally represent the wisdom of long experience. They are sign-boards on life’s great
highway erected by former generations, and most travelers accept their guidance without question. As a false sign on a crowded
roadway may lead multitudes astray, so an untrue maxim, especially when circulating among the young and inexperienced, may turn countless
lives into dangerous or fatal paths. “Every young man must sow his wild oats,” “All's fair in love and war,”
“Every man has his price,” are examples of such lying proverbs. Our boys and girls, inexperienced travelers on a new
road, eager to be in the fashion, untaught as yet by hard experience, are easily misled by current fallacies and
false traditions, especially if the falsehood is sugar-coated with a little truth and its acceptance furnishes a ready excuse for
laziness or misconduct.

To this doubly dangerous class belongs the oft-repeated and widely-believed statement that the boy who leads his class in school
is generally a failure in after life. Here is the lying tradition sweetened with a little truth and flavored with
counterfeit logic: “To attain success in the fierce warfare of modern business demands pluck, self-confidence, red-blooded vitality, and a knowledge
of men and things, rather than ‘book-learning’ and abstract scholarship. In fact, the students who make the very highest grades
are not so apt to win promotion and success in later life as their wiser comrades who refuse to spend
more time in study than is necessary to make reasonably fair grades, and are thereby enabled to participate more vigorously
in the social and athletic activities of the playground and campus.”

To the lazy and self-indulgent, to social dudes and tin-horn sports and overgrown children, to all who long to study
less and play more, this theory is as fascinating as poisoned candy in a kindergarten. It not only excuses neglect
of duty but crowns the loafer as a man of far-seeing wisdom. It is a timely opiate when conscience stirs
within, a trusty armor when parents and teachers assail from without. What wonder that in many student circles it is
the most unquestioned part of the college creed and campus opinion looks down with mingled pity and contempt on “studes,”
“digs,” “grinds,” and “scholarship cranks.”

The truth is that those who outstrip their indolent or brainless competitors in school or college continue to do so
when school days are over, and to win high scholarship honors in a first-class college is almost a guarantee of
success in life. To prove this let us take only one of many impartial investigations. In 1911, Dr. Paul Van
Dyke made a careful study of the scholarship records and future history of nearly 9,000 graduates of five typical colleges
to see how many of them had attained such prominence as to be placed in the “Who's Who” list of
distinguished Americans, published every other year by Marquis and Company, of Chicago. Other similar studies had shown that of the
two million Americans who never attended school, none attained the “Who's Who” list; of those with a common-school education, it
took 9,000 to furnish one distinguished man; of those with high-school training, one in 400 reached eminence; of all college
students, one in 90; of all college graduates, one in 15.

Dr. Van Dyke's study of the Harvard records covered 13 successive senior classes, numbering 2,229 men, of whom only 75
won the very highest scholarship honors. Of these 75, 59 were living in 1911, and 27 of them were listed
in “Who's Who” of that year, about 1 in 2. At Yale, 20 senior classes numbered 2,132, with 102 first-honor
men, of whom 80 living in 1911 furnished 31 to the “Who's Who” list. Princeton's seniors for 20 years, numbering
1,687, furnished 100 honor-men. Of these 76 were living in 1911, with 29 in “Who's Who.” Amherst College in 17
years furnished 1,153 Seniors and 106 honor-men. Of the 80 living in 1911, 25 had reached distinction. Brown University in
15 years had 778 Seniors, of whom 60 won first-honor. Of these there were 53 living in 1911, and 19
were listed in “Who's Who.”

Thus among 7,979 men, having all the advantages of modern college training, representing five institutions and 85 graduating classes, 348
(4 percent) were differentiated from the rest solely by their very high grades. While this group were still below middle
age, and 79 of them too young to have had a fair...Chance to win distinction, 131 (1 in every 2.2-3)
had already won a place on the “Who’s Who” list of distinguished men, which contains only 1.55 of 1 per
cent of the total population. Omitting the 79, one-half of the remainder were already on the “Who’s Who” list in
1911. To sum it up from another point of view: The man who graduates with high scholastic honors, instead of
being unfitted for success by his extra “book-learning,” is about seven times as likely to become a distinguished man as
the “all-round men” taking their diplomas with him. As compared with the average college student, his chances are 20 to
1; compared with the average high-school student, 200 to 1; and with those having only a common-school education, 5,000 to
1. In this Age of Mind, as never before, Knowledge is Power, and the man who knows is the man
who leads. The next time, therefore, the silly falsehood that star students generally fail in business threatens to become epidemic
on your campus, kindly inoculate the “easy marks” with the above facts and arrest the spread of the contagion.

In past years, Davidson has been noted for the spirit of democracy and fellowship which has existed among her students.
Wherever two or more Davidson men met, there was a friendly greeting; name made no difference, for they were bound
together by a band of college spirit. Conditions this year are different. As far as the majority of the fellows
are concerned, there is little time for the college activities which formerly bound the students together. The result is that
the old spirit of unity has given way in a large measure to a spirit of factionalism. Now the men
no longer greet each other when they meet on the campus unless they happen to be friends. There is more
call for friendship among the men now than ever. All the men are facing problems that they have never had
to face before. Furthermore, only by a spirit of cooperation can the best be gotten out of the S. A.
T. C. here. It takes very little effort to say “Gentlemen” or some such greeting as you meet the fellows
on the campus or downtown, and it helps all to pull together for the benefit of themselves and the college—S.
O. L. has been paid the college this fall by the Government.

The two literary societies will meet at 7:15 on Saturday night to discuss plans for beginning active work immediately on
the resumption of college after Christmas. Several medals for oratory, debating, and literary ability are offered by each society in
the spring term. These should be keenly contested. Then, it is expected that the societies will arrange two intercollegiate debates,
according to old custom. All five members of last year’s teams being of the class of ‘18, the reputation of
the college must this year be defended by younger men of the societies. It will hence devolve upon the societies
to begin active work as early as possible after Christmas—Mc.

COLLEGE EXPENSES OF THE SPRING TERM.

The regular college expenses for the spring term will be as prescribed by the catalog. The fees at the opening
of the term will range from $79.00 to $66.00. This variation is due to the choice in dormitories made by
the boarding houses this week. The board will be $16 a month and up to $22. Mr. Jackson has a
plan which will give a more uniform laundry expense, considering conditions. There will be a certain amount needed for incidentals,
but the fellows must remember that the Government will cease paying board and $30 a month, and govern themselves accordingly.

The other day I got to talking with a fellow, a big, rough, loud private he was—or rather he had
been. You see, he was just back from France and he had only one leg left to stand on. He
left the other one near a little French place they call Chateau Thierry, but he didn’t seem to mind it
much. Anyway, we got to talking about the war and some other things; one of them was the relative size
of transport boats; and I said, “They tell me this big boat, the Leviathan, has carried more soldiers over than
any other boat.” He looked at me a minute and grinned a funny kind of grin. Then he said, “Naw,
buddy, you’re all wrong: The Lusitania carried most of them.” It took me a full minute to get this and
then I started wondering if I had enough money to buy another Thrift Stamp. —Ex.

The father and sisters of J. E. McQueen were on the hill during the past week. Mrs. W. H. Wooten
spent Thanksgiving Day at Wilmington.

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both.
The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you. Engraved Work a
Specialty.

CHARLOTTE PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. (Phone 643) T. C. STONE, Representative NORTH CAROLINA
