The DAVIDSONIAN, February 27, 1918

LITERARY SOCIETIES

The subject in the Eu Society last Saturday was, “Resolved, That the City Manager Plan of Government should be adopted by cities having a population of over 10,000." Mahood, C. B. Robson, and Flinn, upholding the affirmative side, dwelt convincingly on the inefficiency of the present system of government, and the amelioration that would follow the system proposed for the substitution of the present system. The negative, composed of C. M. McCaskill, Boulware, and Love, showed the plan of the affirmative to be undesirable. They contended that the proposed system would not remedy evils, and it would not be democratic. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative. The house decided in favor of the negative. Immediately after the debate, McCloy and Frierson gave very interesting and instructive orations, completing the program. There will be no meeting next Saturday on account of Junior Speaking.

At the meeting of the Phi Society last Saturday night, no regular program was carried out. The new officers were installed and twelve men were initiated into the society. Several of the new men showed their ability as orators and readers by rendering a splendid extemporaneous program to the society. After this, some important business matters were taken up and discussed. There will be no meeting of the society Saturday night.

AMERICAN UNIVERSITY CLUB OF CHINA HAS 300 MEMBERS

The American University Club of China is composed of nearly three hundred graduates and former students of American universities, who are now living in China. The membership is about equally divided between Chinese graduates of American universities who have returned home to China, and Americans who are engaged in the various business, educational, medical, and missionary enterprises that Americans are conducting in the Republic of China. The club was organized in 1903 and the membership has grown steadily. The purpose of the club is to stimulate a closer feeling of fellowship on the part of American college men who are living in China and also stimulate a closer fellowship among Americans and Chinese, which is so necessary to the future peace and well-being of the Pacific.

Approximately 1,200 Chinese graduates and former students of American and European universities have now returned to China. More than half of this number have been educated in America and their records since returning to China show that their education has not been in vain. In practically every line of endeavor in China—engineering, railroad management, manufacturing, education, medicine, business, and governmental service—they are to be found in positions of trust and responsibility. There are now about 7,000 Americans living in China and the last few years have seen a great stimulus in the growth of American business and other interests in China. Since China is now being rapidly modernized along Western or American lines, the American University Club desires to emphasize the importance of a closer study of questions dealing with the Far East on the part of American colleges and universities. It also desires to call the attention of American young men and women to the possibility of becoming of service to America through a closer study of world-wide affairs and questions, especially those dealing with the Far East. American college students or professors desiring special information on subjects dealing with China and the Orient are urged to communicate with the American University Club, Shanghai, China.

OUR CONTEMPORARIES

Old Gold and Black—The Literary Societies at Wake Forest are so pleased with the success of the Interscholastic Declamatory Contest inaugurated last year that they have established an essay contest for the secondary schools of the State. The essays must be written on the subject, “Why I Should Enter College.”Next Session,’ and must be submitted on or before April 20. He * * The Trinity Chronicle—The Senior Class at Trinity College has decided to discontinue the College Annual, the Chanticleer, this year, and to donate the Liberty Bonds recently bought, to the Gymnasium. To fill the vacancy caused by the Annual, it is planned to convert the May issue of the Archive, the Senior Class literary magazine, into a yearbook, so as to contain Senior pictures and probably pictures of the other classes and organizations.

* * The Reveille—The team has been chosen to represent the Louisiana State University in its debate with the University of Georgia, at Baton Rouge, sometime in April. The question is, “Resolved, That all corporations engaged in interstate commerce should be required to take out a Federal charter, constitutionality conceded.” L. S. U. is to defend the affirmative side.

* * The Agonistic—The classes in education at Agnes Scott College heard a lecture delivered by the head of the Latin Department on the subject, “Why Study Latin.” The principal argument used was that the study of Latin is of inestimable value in the understanding and use of English.

* * The Technique—Colonel Hubbard, the commandant at Georgia Tech, took about sixty students to Camp Gordon. The object was to see the trenches, artillery, and other features. At division headquarters, they were met by two officers of the French Army, who took the party all over the trenches and explained every feature of the trench system. Rain overhead and mud underfoot added a vivid touch of reality and only the hiss of shells and enemy aeroplanes were lacking to make the picture complete.

* * The Vanderbilt Hustler—The co-eds have decided to organize the war work they are doing at Vanderbilt University. At a meeting recently held, it was proposed to organize under the name of the Vanderbilt Unit of the Girls’ Patriotic League. Fifty co-eds were present and it is felt that the organization will be quite worthwhile.

U.S. Government Thrift Stamps May Be Purchased Here 25c. starts your Thrift Savings Card. Buy 25c. Thrift Stamps as often as you can. When you have 16 stamps, add a few cents and exchange them for a War Savings Certificate. ASK ABOUT THEM SPACE DONATED BY M. E. EDWARDS

See Our Line of Florsheim Dress Shoes Brown-Knox Mercantile Company The BEST Things to EAT CASHION & SON Also ARMY Shoes

ARE YOU READY For the Season With High-Class Shoes? Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill. Gilmer Moore Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen! When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial. Rutledge Norton Next door to Post Office.

LET THE Davidson Pressing Club DO YOUR PRESSING Phone 69-J Tate’s Barber Shop CHARLOTTE, N. C. Special Attention to Davidson Men

Save your Shoe Repair Work for the SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C. Williamson & McDonald, Agents Power House

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES Brockmann’s 224 S. TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

If it's FARM LANDS, CITY PROPERTY, BUILDING, RENTS, INSURANCE, or BONDS that you want Thies-Smith Realty Co., 200 Commercial Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing See H. L. WASHAM

Z. K. JUSTICE DENTAL SURGEON Office over Bank Hours: 9:00 to 12:00, 2:00 to 4:00