THEDAVIDSONIAN Vol. V. January 23, 1918. No. 14

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON BATTALION—Companies “A,” “B” and “C”

Gilbert Morrison Writes of Experiences In France Learning Acrobatic Stunts in the Air.

The following extracts from a letter of Gilbert Morrison's, '16, will be read with interest by his many friends and comrades here:

“More than a week ago I went up in an altitude test, but I can’t say that I enjoyed it. I didn’t leave the ground until after 4 o'clock and the officer in charge told me to come down before it got dark and I could finish it the next day. It took me about 20 minutes to gain my altitude, 12,000 feet, and when I got there it was beginning to get dark, but I decided to stick out the required 15 minutes, even though I had to land in the dark. It was horribly cold at that height, but I had on lots of heavy clothes and also fleece-lined snow shoes, so didn’t notice it much. When my 15 minutes had expired I nosed the machine over with a little power on and came to the ground like a bullet, as it was getting very dark, and I wanted to get down as soon as possible. When I got about halfway down my ears began to ache horribly, due to the sudden pressure of the lower atmosphere, and I don’t remember when I have experienced such pain. I succeeded in making a safe landing but couldn’t hear a thing for quite a while. You may be sure the next time I go so high I shall come down more slowly.

“Tuesday, 27th, four of us had to get up at 4:30 in the morning and drive over to in an automobile to fly back four machines. It was snowing when we left here but it didn’t last long. We arrived at about 9 o'clock, but the weather was too bad to fly back, so we had to stay there until Friday afternoon, which was a treat to us, as is a good town and we could stay in a good hotel and eat good food. Every day we would go out to the flying field, get out our machines and fly around a little, but didn’t try to come here, as the clouds were too low. * * *

“Friday the clouds were still low, but we knew that if we did not get back to camp that day we would be a month late in getting our pay, as we were to sign the payroll that day, so we started back. The clouds were only about 600 feet from the ground, so I decided to go above them and fly part of the way and take a chance on finding my position on the map when I came down. It was mighty pretty above them, looked almost like the sea. Then I was in the sunlight while the ground under me was covered with black clouds. When I (Continued on page 6)

Dr. Bradley Tells of Work in China Mission Study Classes Have Been Organized.

The 100 students who attended the first Y. M. C. A. meeting for 1918 were well repaid for their time in hearing Dr. J. W. Bradley, a medical missionary from Sutsien, China. Dr. Bradley addressed the students at this time at the request of the Missionary Committee of the Association as this was the rally in the interest of mission study.

The opening remarks of the speaker were forceful and timely. They vividly pictured the condition of the world at the present time as it is now wrapped in war, yet the speaker would not allow his audience to forget that while this great physical war was waging there was the greater spiritual conflict also in progress. He urged that every man stand for what was right and that if anyone thought that his duty called him into the service of his country that he was perfectly right in doing that thing. Furthermore, he said that he would not say one word to mislead one, for he thought the great war that our nation had entered was right and that we were on the right side. He said, however, that as great and as important as this present war is, that Jesus Christ was the leader in the spiritual conflict and that if a decision must be made in regard to volunteering, that it was the duty of ministerial students to be loyal to their Maker. Dr. Bradley added that he thought the life of one absolutely consecrated minister of the Gospel was doing more materially to hasten the coming of our Lord than all the armed forces in Europe. Closing this part of his speech with an account of the great work of Dr. DuBose in driving opium out of China after 50 years of consecrated and earnest labors, Dr. Bradley made an appeal for the lives of some of those present to do great things for the cause of Christ not only in China but in all parts of the world.

After this, the speaker gave a few impressions of his work inChina. He spoke of having gone to his work 18 years ago and started his medical practice in a long, narrow, low-ceiled building with a brick floor. His outfit consisted of a chest of medicines and a few instruments, he said, and his operating table was a wooden door resting on temporary supports. Patients who had to remain in the hospital for any length of time were put in several out-rooms or beds made of a wooden support covered with corn-stalks and a few Chinese quilts. Today, (Continued on page 6)

Large Audience Hears Ex-Gov. Patterson

Davidson Wins From Washington and Lee

“The Mind of a Nation” is Strong | Generals Are Defeated On Our Own Plea for Prohibition.

Last Friday evening the citizens of Davidson and the students of the college had the pleasure of hearing a lecture by ex-Gov. M. R. Patterson, of Tennessee. Mr. Patterson gave an address brimful of “pep” and patriotism on the great national interests of the day. The subject of his address was, “The Mind of the Nation.” Briefly, his speech was as follows:

At the outbreak of the war, we were a pleasure-loving people whose main ambitions were to make money and have a good time. We had developed wonderfully in a material way at the expense of ideals and manhood, and our country was on the verge of national decadence. As soon as we entered the war, we were able to supply seven billion dollars for the carrying on of the war, but were unable to put one man on the firing line. For this reason, America has had the humiliating experience of having to go to school to France and England in order to learn the art of fighting. When war was declared against Germany, our sense of national patriotism was almost dead, but under the stress of the times, co-operation is developing efficiency.

The chief cause of our national decadence was the liquor traffic. This heinous business had taught us lack of self-restraint and had even corrupted government and justice. Then because prevention is better than a cure, the first real step to a national conscience is to close every brewery and distillery and saloon in this nation. It is a big proposition to wipe out such a mighty evil, but such things have been done. In our own country, our mind has changed on many things and some great evils have been abolished. One of them was dueling, another the Louisiana Lottery, still another was slavery, and the next will be the saloon.

The saloon must go because it is wasteful and unpatriotic. In this country last year, there were 60,729,509 barrels of beer brewed. This required 7,530,395 tons of coal and 68,400,000 bushels of grain, which was capable of being used for food. In this time when churches, schools, and business houses are closing for days and weeks in order to conserve the coal supply, not a single saloon or brewery has closed its doors. In this time when there is such urgent need for all possible transportation facilities, the breweries have used miles of cars to carry their products and have (Continued on page 6)

Davidson opened her 1918 basketball season by winning from Washington and Lee on their home floor Friday night. The final score was, Davidson, 33; W. & L., 20. The Generals were expecting a rather easy time, but the “Wild Cats,” led by Hengeveld and King, proved too much for them. For such a defeat on her home floor, Washington and Lee has no alibi to offer—the visitors just outplayed them. No news was received from the V. M. I. and B. P. I. games in time for publication, but we're expecting the team to “keep up the good work.”

RE-EXAM SCHEDULE.

Re-examinations schedule follows:

Monday, January 28, 2:10 p.m.—Professors J. M. Douglas, Fulton, Currie, Cartledge, and Overcash.

Monday, February 4, 2:10 p.m.—Professors Harding, Sentelle, J. M. McConnell.

Monday, February 11, 2:10 p.m.—Professors Grey, J. L. Douglas, Wood, Reed.

In case any examinations are not provided for, students will consult the professors concerned. The attention of students is directed to the special fee of $2.00 which must be paid to Mr. Jackson before they are allowed to stand examinations. Receipt for this should be handed to the professor concerned several days before the appointed day, in order that examination questions may be prepared.

MINISTERIAL BAND MEETS.

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting last Sunday evening as usual. The following question was discussed: “The relation of the minister to activities exclusive of the weekly preparation and delivery of sermons.” W. C. Frierson, D. W. Roberts, and W. C. Cumming led in the discussion, emphasizing the necessity of the minister undertaking outside activities of some kind. They in turn pointed out the following outside activities which might well engage the attention of the minister: the organization of Bible classes, the writing for newspapers and periodicals, and the visiting of the sick and the inmates of prison. Then the discussion was thrown open and it was unanimously decided that the minister, to be truly successful, must engage in some outside activities similar to those mentioned.