6 The DAVIDSONIAN April 17, 1918

DAVIDSONIAN OFFICE FORCE ENJOYS ANNUAL FEED

Friday evening at 9 o’clock the new gymnasium presented an attractive scene for those who had been assisting in the
circulation department of this publication. About twenty-five guests were present to partake of the delicious eats covering a long table,
attractively burdened with bananas, apples, cheese sandwiches, pickles, olives, candy, and cakes of three kinds. The entire center of the
table was covered with peanuts. These things together with some lovely flowers created an appearance that would have made Pluto
happy. Dopes, cigarettes, cigars, and gums were passed around. Every guest was presented with an interesting souvenir in the form
of an attractively designed folder announcing the occasion, and containing a statement of the position of The Davidsonian. Other features
of the folder were the names of the outgoing and incoming staffs and the menu. Red and black ribbon formed
the binding of the folders.

There were yells and jokes in abundance. The joke most enjoyed was that told by Captain Lea on Cullum. Those
present were M. A. Siske, toast-master; T. C. Stone, circulation manager; Captain Lea, honorary guest; R. H. Stone, editor-in-chief; W.
C. Neel, C. N. Morrison, M. E. Edwards, J. B. Caldwell, N. A. Bradshaw, D. R. Freeman, T. R. Alexander,
B. W. Romefelt, C. D. Ewing, W. H. Harrel, C. A. McGirt, G. D. Sample, C. J. Matthews, Welcome Cullum,
E. A. Turner, R. D. Hall, L. P. Good, L. W. Fishel, and W. M. Jones. After one hour and
a half of feasting, merriment, and levity a great big yell was given for “Davidsonian.” Many went away to dream
dreams of eating and frolicking, while those who had smoked their first cigar went to beds of unrest.

SERENITY OF DAVIDSON IS RUDELY DISTURBED

A most interesting debate was staged last Saturday night about 11 o'clock in the Bushwhacker Society of North Main street,
when the subject for discussion was, “Resolved, That the prohibition laws are agin’ reason.” The affirmative was represented by several
gentlemen of more or less thirsty temperament, while the negative was supported by the entire police force of Davidson, assisted
by a division of soldiers delegated from Camp Greene for the especial purpose. The affirmative brought the following arguments, to-wit,
buckshot, pokers, skillets, and other instruments of domestic life. The negative replied with a few rounds of 32-calibre pistol fire.
The police force of Davidson did valiant work, but had it not been for the support of the army that
is fighting to make the world safe for Democracy the decision might have been against the forces of law and
order. As it was the fates seem to have decided in favor of these said forces, that is to say,
a judge will have a chance to say a few things on the matter. More medals were presented than even
in a Fresh-Soph debate. Several gentlemen were awarded metal, how many the judges, or rather the doctors, have not yet
decided.

It is pointed out that Oliver Goldsmith in his description of the wilds of the South, gave us credit for
many wonderful animals that do not exist in our fair climes. But no longer can they criticize old Oliver on
one point: he was right when he said there were tigers in this fair land, which goes to prove that
poets are pretty intelligent folks after all.

Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forest of the night.
What a funny, funny plight
Is a tiger without sight!

MAJ. McCONNELL SPEAKS ON ARMY Y. M. C. A.

At the last regular meeting of the Y. M. C. A., Maj. J. W. McConnell, a former member of the
Davidson College faculty and now major in the hospital corps at Camp Jackson, gave a very interesting address on the
Y. M. C. A. work in army camps. He showed how the camp Y. M. C. A.’s have grown from
the ugly, ill-equipped buildings of two years ago to the splendid, well-equipped buildings now erected in each cantonment. He declared
that the Y. M. C. A. and the Red Cross approach one hundred percent efficiency, and that no money given
them is wasted. He described the work of Y. M. C. A. men, and paida high tribute to their Christianity
and helpfulness.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE.

The inter-society debate between the Junior-Senior debating teams of the two literary societies will be held on Monday, April 29.
The subject for debate is: "Resolved, That Congress should enact legislation for the compulsory arbitration of disputes between organized labor
and corporations, constitutionality waived." The Phi team, composed of Neel, McClure, and Currie, will uphold the affirmative, while the negative
will be defended by Orgain, Thomas, and Potts, of the Eu Society. The inter-society debating cup, which has been won
by the Phi Society for the past two years, will be the award to the winner, and a hotly contested
debate is expected.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS.

Critiques sur les Professeurs de Davidson.

Les jeunes membres du "Cercle Francais" ont passé l'heure de conférence samedi dernier à parler en des termes plus ou
moins enthousiastes de leurs chers professeurs. Voici quelques extraits de leurs discours: Un de nos professeurs lève les sourcils quand
il chante, mais il chante néanmoins assez bien. Quelques-uns de nos professeurs jouent souvent (et très bien) le victrola, et
les autres se vantent d'autres connaissances et arts d'agrément. Les professeurs aiment à dire de petites histoires pour rire plus
ou moins factices et embellies, pour nous aider à obtenir tous les faits. Les élèves appellent un des professeurs "Le
Long Garçon," un autre "Machine à Vapeur," un autre "Pêche." De ces messieurs nécessaires dérive son nom d'une variété célèbre
de café. Les professeurs de Davidson sont les plus méchants du monde, surtout le professeur de—, le professeur de—, et
le professeur de—. Le premier préfère que nous étudiions tout le temps, et ne veut jamais nous laisser le temps
de nous amuser; le second pense—évidemment qu'il n'y a rien au monde excepté le système et la méthode, et la
nécessité de préciser toujours. Selon lui, ce ne sont que les faits spécifiques qui vaillent. Le professeur de—s'est absenté trop
souvent après les vacances de Noël. Il aurait dû se souvenir que nous avons payé notre éducation, et que nous
tenons à ce que nous l'obtenions.

The friends of Dr. J. M. McConnell will be glad to hear that another honor has been conferred upon him.
He has been appointed by Governor T. W. Bickett as a delegate to the 27th annual meeting of the American
Academy of Political and Social Science. The conference meets in Philadelphia, April 26-27, 1918.

G. A. Byrd, '20, left the Hill Saturday to accept a position with the Redpath Chautauqua, but expects to return
to college next year.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St. - - - - Statesville, N. C.

When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a
big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES 17

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

RUTLEDGE & NORTON
Up-to-Date Barbers

V. Wallace & Sons

We carry a complete line of Men’s and Boys’ Clothing made in the best makes at prices to suit all.
We invite you to inspect the famous KUPPENHEIMER CLOTHES, known the world over. Pay cash and save money. New showing
of Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, and Interwoven Hose.

V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, and Greensboro
