The Davidsonian, March 6, 1918

TOWN ITEMS.

The Misses Lafferty, after spending the winter with their nephew in Charlotte, have returned to their home on North Main
Street.

Prof. H. B. Overcash spent the weekend at his old home in Statesville.

Miss Mary Jackson has returned to her home.

Miss Mary Young has returned from visits to Charlotte and Gastonia.

Dr. H. S. Monroe, '99, of Columbus, Ga., was in town Saturday night.

Prof. M. G. Fulton spent the weekend in Asheville.

R. D. Singleton, ex-’20, was on the Hill a few days last week.

Dr. M. E. Sentelle spent the weekend with his parents in Greenville, Tenn.

Prof. Macon Reed spent the weekend with his family in Columbia, S. C.

Dr. J. M. McConnell and sons visited his father in McConnellsville the past week.

Miss Helen Spence, of near Concord, has been spending a few days with Miss Ellen Black.

Prof. G. H. Cartledge made a very important business trip to Brevard the past weekend.

JUNIOR ORATORICAL (Continued from page 1)

for awarding the Ds to those men who won basketball letters this spring. Dr. Harding awarded the letters, making many
humorous comments that rendered the occasion quite enjoyable. Those receiving letters were: Hengeveld, “D” and three stars; (Captain) King, “D”
and two stars; Flowers, “D”; J. W. McAlister, “D”; L. C. McCaskill, “D”; and Angle, Manager’s “D”. The following men
received “D Cs”: T. R. Alexander, W. M. Hall, Romefelt, Schenck, and H. W. Davenport.

This war has brought on a good many things, and not the least of these is the gentle art of
camouflage. We have already been told something about this by our obliging Juniors, but it remained for others to put
the gentle art in practice. There was a conspicuous addition to the Fair Sex at the Concert and Reception, due
to the apt employment of the art of camouflage. Camouflage has long been recognized as one of the chief means
of power among the female sex, and one in which they have all obtained high proficiency. But it remained for
a staid Ministerial Candidate and others to widen the art in its application to include specimens of masculinity. They succeeded
perfectly. Three young gentlemen whose mothers had confidently looked forward to the day when they would be President were suddenly
transformed into one of that class of beings who, because they have to be assisted down the street, and into
theaters and out of automobiles, have earned the title of the weaker sex. In the twinkling of an eye, they
became as good a member of the said class as if they had spent their whole life on friendly terms
with Resinal Soap and Pompeian Vanishing Cream. They possessed one of those “Skins You Love to Touch.” Their motto was
“Deeds, Not Words.” Several ladies believed that it was just awful to carry on like that in public. But as
for me and my house, here’s three good hearty cheers for the Camouflage Company, Limited. Rah! Rah! Rah!

FACULTY RECEPTION.

One of the most attractive features of Junior Speaking was the reception given on Saturday evening by the members of
the Faculty in honor of the Junior class, who had as their guests the Senior class, the Orchestra and Glee
Club, and their friends. Immediately following the concert in Shearer Hall, the guests proceeded to the new gymnasium building where
they were received by the members of the Faculty and their wives. A most noticeable feature of the occasion was
the first display of the college service flag containing 340 stars, which hung from the beams overhead in the center
of the room. At both ends of the spacious hall, punch and cake were served by the Misses Vinson, Steele,
Baskerville, and Grey. The reception was attended by one of the largest crowds ever present at an oratorical reception atDavidson.
Afterwards the fraternity halls were open to visitors.

VISITORS.

Visitors on the Hill for Junior Speaking were: Misses Nancy Shelton, Mildred Patterson, and Louise Heath, of Charlotte, N. C.;
Miss Dolly Hyman, of New Bern, N. C.; Miss Frances Worth, of Davidson, N. C.; Miss Mary Councill, of Salisbury,
N. C.; Miss Martha Miley, of Davidson, N. C.; Misses Gertrude Merryman, Josephine Vaughn, and Mary Watson Vaughan, of Greensboro,
N. C.; Miss Elizabeth Dowd and Miss Dorothy Parker, of Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Mary Shepherd, of Winston-Salem, N. C.;
Miss Clarie Parrott, of Bishopville, S. C.; Misses Elsie Moses and Margaret Stockton, of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Mary Johnston,
of Mooresville, N. C.; Miss Rogers Gibbon, of Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Margaret Tate, of Norfolk, Va.; Miss Mary Pollard,
of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Anna Whitner and Miss Maud Barron, of Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Orie Steele, of
Davidson, N. C.; Miss Dewey Hart, of Cuthbert, Ga.; Miss Helen Fisher and Miss Mary Fisher, of Concord, N. C.;
Miss Lelia Graham Marsh, of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Mildred Brown, of Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Annie McKeithen, of Cameron,
N. C.; Miss Harry and Miss Bradford, of Charlotte, N. C.; Misses Louise Evans and Louise McQueen, of Clio, S.
C.; Miss Louise Moore, of Dillon, S. C.; Miss Louise Boswell, of Greensboro; Miss Eleanor Smith, of Winston-Salem, N. C.;
Miss Margaret Overton, of Salisbury, N. C.; Miss Hattie Dudley, of Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Kennedy, of Dalton, Ga.; Miss
Eugenia Woodberry, of Quincy, Fla.; Miss Miriam Smith, of Greenville, Miss.; Miss Adelle Lowry, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; Miss Catherine Walker,
of Morristown, Tenn.; Miss Bowmer, of Alexandria, Va.

The following girls came as visitors from Steele Creek, N. C.: Misses Hannah McGinn, Margaret Wilson, Irene Freeman, Eunah Collins.
Miss Evelyn Saddler, of Statesville College, was also on the Hill. Among other girls present were Miss Aphrodite Ascolophus Bellerophon,
of Sirenia, visiting 19 Rumple; Miss Charybdis Clamintine, of Calydonia, visiting 26 Rumple, and Miss Bonie Longnecker Iphigenia, a prize
beauty from Pamphylia. A cruel howl was made over the last mentioned.

Other visitors were: Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Dunlap, of Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. A. D. McClure, of Wilmington, N.
C.; D. I. McKeithen, ’17; J. C. Paisley, ’17; S. T. Henderson, ’17; J. P. Laird, ’17; Bingham McKee, ex-’18;
W. C. Berryhill, ex-’19; F. H. Belk, ex-’20; P. B. Rankin, ex-’20; F. N. McKeller, ex-’20; Everett Booe, ex-’11.

211 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the
French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

Johnston-Belk Company
DEPARTMENT STORE
212 South Center St.
Statesville, N. C.

When you want the best values call at the store that sells for CASH and for LESS. We carry a
big line of Clothing, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Gents’ Furnishings, etc.

17 BIG DEPARTMENT STORES

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

3% Paid on Savings Accounts

"How Much?" is not the question, but "how good" is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The
old saying that "a man is judged by the candy he gives" holds good today same as always. Buy the
best—don’t take the "just as good" kind. Nothing quite equals JETTON’S famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively
exclusive class to themselves. Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam
does the rest.

THE FLORIST, Inc.
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONES 441-2

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

WHO SAVES SERVES, BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS

SPACE DONATED BY L. A. ELLIOTT
