2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Editorial Board:
H. A. Woods........... Editor-in-Chief
G. A. Byrd............. Assignment Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr..... Managing Editor

The Staff:
H. G. Lilly
A. R. Craig
D. M. Chalmers
R. B. Shields
W. T. Rankin, Jr.
S. W. McCloy

Management:
R. C. Stone........... Business Manager
R. A. Turner.......... Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Wilson
Class of '21—W. L. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. J. M. Mitchell, I. B. Schenck

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

THE DANGER OF GOOD NEWS.

Each day’s war news makes it seem more and more certain that we will not see much fighting over there, that it will all be over before we become trained. But if we are not careful, this is liable to be a great menace. Just as German propaganda tried its best to defeat the Fourth Liberty Loan drive, so will it try to halt the training of our armies on this side. There is a danger here on the campus that the fellows will lose interest in their work and give up hope of getting into it at all. Whether the war ends tomorrow or runs on for two years longer, every man here should go about his training as if he expected without a doubt to be shipped to France in the near future. Such a letting up in effort is a danger which our far-seeing national leaders are trying to prevent with concern. The war is not won yet, and every man should keep driving his hardest till it is won.

We hear many a fellow declaring loudly that he is “raring” to get across and in the front line trenches, with that “let me at 'em" spirit bristling all over him. Well, to be perfectly frank, he’s a cheerful liar, as everyone knows. No man in his right senses wants to go into the trenches. But this is just what constitutes bravery in the war. What would be brave in spiking a Boche on your bayonet—or risking the opposite—if you enjoyed the whole proceeding? Patriotism and loud talk on this side are two different things. Nine times out of ten the silent man over here will make the best fighter over there.

DEAN M. ORGAIN

The class of 1918 will learn with deep sorrow of a second death in their class, that of D. M. Orgain. He had been engaged in work at Camp Lee, Va. during the summer, and enlisted in the navy in the early part of September. He had been in the service hardly a month when he fell victim to pneumonia following Spanish influenza and succumbed to it after a short illness. We remember well Orgain’s quiet, straightforward manner: a man of strong character, consecrated to the ministry. The world, as well as his class and the others of us who knew him, has sustained a great loss in his death. He was an all-round man and popular with his fellows, and the sympathy of his class and the whole present student body goes out to his people in their grief.

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1918

CIVILIANS AND RETREAT.

It has been noticed and remarked upon several times that the civilian students do not observe the ceremony of retreat with due respect. The other day we noticed one of them sauntering across the campus and he did not pretend to stop, much less uncover, when retreat began to sound. Another day two fellows calmly continued playing tennis during the whole ceremony. This is due no doubt to lack of information as to what they are supposed to do. When retreat begins to sound, the civilian is supposed to rise if seated (out of doors), come to attention facing the flag, and hold his hat over his heart with the right hand. If already uncovered, stand at attention facing the flag. At the last note of the bugle, he may resume whatever occupation he may have been pursuing. Fellows, the flag is just as much yours as it is the soldiers’, so why shouldn't you honor it as much as they do? We trust every civilian student will gladly comply with the demands of this patriotic ceremony.

The other day someone remarked on the fact that the students do not seem to call on the faculty members and their wives as they used to. Up to the present, the tension has been very evident. The flu had everyone docked in till last Sunday, when call to quarters was observed as on weeknights. Sunday evening is the only night of the week when it would be possible for the college boys...to pay such social calls, and no doubt, arrangements can be made whereby the evening may be free till tattoo is sounded. 

The new men evidently do not know of this pleasant and profitable custom which students have observed on the campus for some years. Fellows, the members of the faculty and their wives are glad to have you call on them, and are anxious to become acquainted with you. This phase of the campus and community life is one of Davidson's greatest assets. The wholesome, homelike cordiality accorded the students in the faculty homes is invaluable to a young man away from home influences. 

The services of the faculty and town ladies in the recent flu epidemic cannot easily be repaid by the student body, and its appreciation cannot better be shown than by such visits. Association with such people as live in Davidson cannot help but be of value to any young man.

L. E. DENNARD REQUESTS COURTESY TO THE FLAG

Lieutenant Dennard requests that while "To the Colors" is being played at retreat, all civilians around the barracks or on the campus pay their proper respects to the Flag in accordance with the national custom. Men take off their hats and stand; ladies stand.

WEEKEND PASSES ARE MUCH SOUGHT AFTER

"Say, Sarge, when can I get a pass?" These words are being heard so often that they are becoming a form of salutation. Everybody who lives in the vicinity of Davidson or wants to go to Charlotte is on the rampage for a pass. The purpose of this writing is to give some information on this important and very popular subject.

There will be about twenty percent of each company permitted to leave the post every Saturday for a period of absence extending from noon Saturday to 9:45 p.m. Sunday. It will be discretionary with the company commanders as to the method of selection. If the men are chosen alphabetically, those who do not wish to leave will be checked off and the full quota obtained by going on down the list. No one will be allowed to give his leave to another who has already had a pass for that particular round of selections. As to an exchange of position in the list, there has been no definite statement.

The platoon sergeant will decide whether men have too many delinquencies to justify their being given passes. Moreover, applying for a pass when you don't want one won't erase your black marks for the next time when you are so anxious to go. 

So take a brace, and stand or march at attention when required, and devote a little more time to utilizing the broom. For you will be blue as indigo, or happy as a chipmunk, according as you do so.

BUSINESS MANAGER'S SONG

Our Business Manager asked us to print the following. We do so without comment.

How dear to the heart is the cash of subscription,
When the generous subscriber presents it to view;
But the one who doesn't pay I refrain from description,
For perhaps, dear reader, that one may be you.

The past due subscription,
The overdue subscription,
Of the deadhead subscriber,
That hangs in the book.

That past due subscription I hail as a treasure;
For oft on the first when presented with bills,
I find it a source of an exquisite pleasure;
The receipt of all bills, the cure of all ills.

Ex.

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH CLASS SHOES?
A Complete Line of Military Shoes
Gilmer-Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
Hood & Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N.C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholis, the Florist.
The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

A. CORE
Are Unexcelled
Special service given to your prescriptions,
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.