2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reports for this issue are: M. E. Edward, J. R. Boulivare, Jr., A. L. Wilson, and A. M. Mitchell.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

Our Fifth Anniversary Number.

Sunday's sentiment—Wanted: A fireman.

Here’s to our debaters—the best in several States. Watch Cousar and Bellingrath tack another star in Davidson's crown.

The Orchestra “made a hit” at the Normal. Something else happened at Greensboro. Someone at Synod proposed to make Davidson
a co-ed college. Was it satire, or did the gentleman think Davidson would agree? Fifteen for President Martin, who opposed
it.

Red and Black for the Phi’s, On to Atlanta! The Southern colleges will think our team worse than Sherman's army.
They will make a clean SWOOP.

We have been living through some dark days in the history of civilization. But watch the Allies win!

RETROSPECT.

The time for our exit as a Staff in a unit has come. As we look back over thirty issues
we see that mistakes have been made and we see where, with more funds, your publication could have been more
attractive. But it is with pride that we look through the file and see that we have had the privilege
of heralding the big year in our history. Many of the things held as our policy have seen fruition. But
these things have been accomplished only through the co-ordination of interests entering into The Davidsonian.

INDEBTEDNESS.

To the faculty for their liberality in allowing free press, and for their untiring aid in helping to finance the
paper, we are thankful. Without the unanimous support of the student body we would have been crippled. We are indebted
to you for the many encouragements you have given and for your loyal co-operation whenever called upon. You have manifested
a fine spirit comparable to none, of which we shall never forget. For the subscriptions and letters of interest for
publication from the Alumni and friends, we acknowledge deep gratitude. To the men outside the Staff who have composed a
large part of the press matter, we are indebted. Equally are we obliged to those aiding in the circulation department.
Finally, in an unspeakable way, we owe deep gratitude to our advertisers who so nobly backed us—hence supported you—and for
this we trust you will patronize them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

The Davidsonian is recognized as one of the potent factors in uniting college, alumni, and prospective students. It is a
channel of dynamic for the home of Red and Black. It holds a unique position among the forces on the
campus. It is a mirror of campus life, reflecting a spirit comparable to none in the South. Its function is
to serve the college first, last, and all the time, and not to cast a slur on anything that would
deter (as some gentlemen have wrongly inferred) the best interest of the college.

Davidson men everywhere are more or less zealously blowing Davidson’s horn. Many of them do not get the sheet which
gets them in closer touch with first-hand college conditions. A standard should be to have three-fourths of the alumni as
paid subscribers on the circulation lists. This field has not been worked as it should.When you put a Davidsonian in
the hands of an alumnus, you are giving him a powerful element for the maintenance of activity.

INTRODUCTION.
Before we bid you farewell, it is our privilege to introduce to you one who has served with the publication
since his entry into college. We congratulate him for the large audience to which he is to speak and for
the large number of readers for whom he is to direct the policy. We congratulate you upon having such a
one to head his corps of able assistants who will interest you with Davidson's future laurels. We take pleasure in
presenting to you Mr. F. A. Wands, Editor-in-chief.

MANY CONTRIBUTE TO UNIVERSITY UNION
The contributions for the American University Union, in Paris, are: W. M. Fetzer, $5; H. K. Aiken, $1; Mrs. A.
Currie, $1; T. H. Wilson, $1; C. K. Brown, 50¢; L. M. Currie, 25¢; L. Calhoun, 25¢; W. M. Fountain,
$1; R. H. Stone, $1; J. W. McAllister, $1; A. C. Fairley, $1; R. R. Clarke, $1; G. S. Crouch,
$1; F. B. Moore, $1; N. Y. Pharr, $1; F. L. Knight, 25¢; George King, $1; A. M. Lanman, $1;
and L. L. Edgerton, $1. Total, $20.25. Others wishing to contribute may give their donations to Dr. T. M. McConnell
or Professor A. Currie.

MANY BOOKS COLLECTED IN CANVASS FRIDAY
A house-to-house canvass for books for the soldiers was made during the past week. Everyone readily responded. The total number
collected was about one hundred and fifty. Most of these books are practically new and in good condition. They will
be held here until the local committee is directed where to send them.

The name of L. B. Schenck should have been among the Kappa Sigma initiates in last week’s issue of The
Davidsonian. G. D. Green has been initiated in the same fraternity. The Bachelor’s Club has initiated W. A. Foil and
S. J. Hand.

The Davidsonian was born April 1, 1914. This is the fifth anniversary of The Davidsonian. It is evident that it
has not proved an April Fool. When the idea was agitated, there was opposition. Opposition from several angles. Opposition on
the ground that there would not be sufficient news to fill four pages. These men said, “Not so!” and said
it with a zest. They knew the possibility of a college paper at Davidson. If asked why, we would say
that this plate answers the question. The staff composing the first Davidsonian labored indefatigably—worked in season and out of season.
They formulated some principles which are embodied in the policy of the paper today. It is to these men—the leaders
of thought and action in college activities in their day—that we do obeisance. We adore their contribution to college activities.
Their policies have proved an inspiration to the present staff. We trust that all succeeding editorial boards may drink from
their Promethean springs and may glow with journalistic zeal fired by the ardor of those fathers of The Davidsonian. Despite
all pessimism, these men have succeeded.

NOTICE.
The Davidsonian wishes to publicly recognize the faithful services of the men who have labored in the office to get
the paper to subscribers. They are not known to many, and the staff wishes to express its gratitude for their
efficient aid. Their names are as follows: Matthews, G. D. Sample, McGirt, Ewing, Romefelt, Bradshaw, Neel, Edwards, G. W. Black,
Harold, Fishel, T. R. Alexander, Freeman, Turner, Good, W. M. Jones, Cullum, Witherspoon, Hand, S. R. Burgess.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

BOOKS, STATIONERY, NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily. First Class Vaudeville.
YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED
Mention The Davidsonian. Patronize Our Advertisers.
