6 The DAVIDSONIAN February 20, 1918

News and Happenings of the Week in Town
Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

Misses Ruth and Dorothy Gill, of Statesville, spent the weekend with their cousin, Mrs. Paisley.

Mrs. Worth left Friday afternoon for Wilmington, where she will visit friends.

Rev. W. A. Jenkins, pastor of the Methodist Church, gave a very interesting illustrated lecture on the mission work of the Methodist Church in China, Sunday night.

Mrs. Thames, the mother of J. A. Thames, ‘18, and her little daughter, Mary Louise, spent two days in town on her way to Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Wilson MacConnell and her little son went to Chester, S. C., to spend the weekend with Maj. J. W. MacConnell.

Rev. and Mrs. J. W. Grier, of Huntersville, were in town for the afternoon services on Monday.

Rev. Dugald Monroe, of Red Springs, spent Tuesday at the home of Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas, the latter being his niece.

Mrs. Briggs, who has had an apartment at the home of Dr. J. W. MacConnell, has moved with her children to Chester, S. C.

Privates Houston Brown and Lewis Potts, from Camp Sevier, spent Sunday with their parents in town.

Miss Winifred Potts, of Queens, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. W. A. Potts.

Miss Frances Worth has returned from a week's visit at Greensboro.

Rev. F. A. Brown, of Mooresville, was in town Monday afternoon attending the revival services.

Dr. Henry Dodson, of Greensboro, spent Sunday with his uncle, Dr. E. H. Harding. Dr. Harding has been sick for some time, but is very much better this week.

SERVICE FLAGS ARE INCREASING IN NUMBER

A number of college organizations have shown their patriotism by getting service flags. These flags have a star for every former member of that organization who is now in service. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity has a flag which has twenty-four stars in it. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity has one which contains thirty stars. The Philanthropic Society at a recent meeting voted to get a service flag. It will contain fifty stars. More stars will probably be added later, as the investigation of the records has not been entirely completed. The flag will be made of the best material obtainable. The student body has also ordered a service flag. It is uncertain how many stars it will contain, as new names come in every week. When it is ordered it will have at least three hundred and thirty-six stars.

Because of added information, the name of J. R. Boulware, '21, has been placed on the honor roll with a grade of 95.1.

REVIEW OF SECOND ISSUE OF “MAGAZINE”

The second attempt of the “Davidson College Magazine,” which appeared last week, contained some very interesting material. This issue is especially full of fiction, there being only one essay in the whole table of contents, and that under the rather philosophical title of “The Vindication of Selfishness,” makes a strong plea for the Honor Roll Man. Of its poems we have two patriotic poems and a well-written ballad of the “time of de war.” In the cold winter time, a young man’s fancy turns lightly to thoughts of summer, and two of the poems bear evidence of that fact. In fiction, there is Idealized Romance of the Queen of the Spinning Room, Humor in On the Road to Florida, Sentiment in The Drama of the Ages, Philosophy in Rose Bushes and Worms, Stirring Adventure under foreign skies in A Tale of Old Japan, Psychology, Pathology, and Physiology in The Man With the Fuse. Cumming’s story is a tale that has held spellbound generations of Japanese.Children, and the tale loses none of its charm by his telling. On the whole, this issue of the “Magazine” is up to the standard both in quantity and quality. It shows that more students are taking an interest in its publications, and it shows that these students do not have to be those with whom we usually associate the word “literary” in order to turn out work both interesting and excellent. The “Magazine” has received many favorable comments from its exchanges. The Emery Phoenix gives it an especially favorable write-up, while all the reviewers find more to praise than to blame. Stone’s article on the Modern Drama, and Harrell’s story, “In the Past Tense,” seem to be drawing the most favorable comments.

Preparations for the Fresh-Soph issue are well under way, and it is hoped to put out a “Magazine” up to the standard. But contributions have not been as prolific as might be hoped, and if you see the lines of care furrowing the brows of the editor, it is not because he has been sitting up too late reading contributions. It is rather otherwise. Remember the good old motto, “It is never too late to write a story,” and see if you cannot expose your literary ability to the public in our Fresh-Soph issue. Contributions must be in by March 1.

LIEUT. W. W. MORTON ON CAMPUS LAST WEEK

Accompanied by his mother and sister, First Lieut. W. W. Morton, ’09, who is chaplain in the 322d Regiment at Camp Jackson, was on the Hill last Thursday visiting his brother, T. N. Morton, '18. Lieutenant Morton reported that he was pleasantly situated in his work and liked the chaplaincy exceedingly well. He spoke of the great opportunity that the chaplain had in being an actual member of the body of soldiers. He also expressed himself in hoping that Congress would immediately pass a bill providing for three chaplains to a regiment as the regiments were three times the ordinary size. He spoke of his work as being divided into four heads. He has one regular service a week required of him and can speak as often as he wishes at other services. He also spoke of hospital visitation, classes for uneducated men in the ranks, and personal work as falling under his care. There was a time, he said, when he was the only Protestant chaplain at Camp Jackson, but that now he has some company. He mentioned W. P. McElroy, ex-’11, and G. W. Gignilliat, Jr., ‘15, as being connected with the Y. M. C. A. in the camp and doing good work. Lieutenant Morton returned to his work after a short leave of absence on Friday.

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes. Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

RING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7000,000

But “how good” is the question that everyone should ask in buying candy. The old saying that “a man is judged by the candy he gives” holds good today same as always. Buy the best—don't take the “just as good” kind. Nothing quite equals

JETTON’S
famous Bon-Bons and Chocolates. They are in a distinctively exclusive class to themselves. Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Just give us the name and address and Uncle Sam does the rest.

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2
8 N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

WHO SAVES SERVES
BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
SPACE DONATED BY L. A. ELLIOTT