6

DAVIDSON CLASHES N. C. AT WINSTON-SALEM

Davidson did not meet a team from the University of North Carolina last year; there was no such team. This
year, however, representatives of these institutions will again clash on the gridiron. Davidson's team this year is an unusually strong
one. In spite of all difficulties and disappointments, Davidson has a team of which she has good reason to feel
proud. The heavy Washington and Lee team came down quite confident; yet only once did that team show any real
strength. Davidson's team was clearly master of the situation. Coach Fetzer is usually remarkably reticent. But even before he had
seen it win so handily over the Generals, he was willing to say that this year’s team was the most
promising that he had ever seen on Sprunt Field. It is of course true that the organization of the team
will be somewhat set back by the fact that this week we lose Spann, our veteran quarterback, and Captain Crouch.
And J. M. Barnhart, who was showing up well as sub fullback, leaves at the same time. The team and
the whole college will sorely miss these men. But Coach has several good men to fill these vacancies. For quarterback
he may use either Douglass or Robeson, or he could shift McFadden or McAllister from halfback. And there are several
men who can take the center, particularly Brady, who though now at guard, has a good deal of experience at
center. Davidson still has a good team.

At Carolina, Coach Ritch has assembled a team which quite easily beat Camp Greene Remount last Saturday, but its real
strength is quite problematical. The Carolina team is almost entirely yet to make, with a coach who is clearly at
a disadvantage against Coach Fetzer, who has been coaching Davidson teams successfully for years. Although the entire student body is
behind the team, and would be glad to be in Winston-Salem and support the team next Saturday, on account of
the fact that a trip could not be arranged without cutting out inspection, Lieutenant Dennard says that he cannot give
any leave except the regular weekend passes.

TOWN ITEMS.

Mr. C. L. Grey and family left on Monday to make their home in Hendersonville. Mr. Grey has made Davidson
his home for a number of years and has been one of the town's most prosperous and influential citizens. Their
many friends regret to see Mr. and Mrs. Grey leave our community.

Miss Mildred Johnson, who has been at home during the influenza situation, returned last Saturday to Shelby to resume her
duties as teacher of biology in the Shelby High School.

Mr. John Hill, superintendent of the grounds, is out again after a week's illness. Mr. Hill is beloved by all
the students, who are glad to see him well again.

G. D. Green, ‘21, who has been ill with pneumonia since October 1, has gone home on a furlough. He
was accompanied by his mother, who has been here during his illness.

The Book Lovers’ Club met on last Friday with Miss Julia Johnson. The topic for special study was: “Friendly and
Unfriendly Relations Between the United States and France.” Miss Maud Vinson read a lengthy paper she had prepared on the
subject. Refreshments were afterwards served and the meeting was thrown into its social functions.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON DEFEATS W. & L. (Continued from page 1)

Johnson gains 7 yards through center; Massie 4 yards over right guard; McFadden 3 yards through center. Massie failed to
gain. Johnson gains 8 yards around right end. Johnson goes over for touchdown. Spann misses goal. Cato substituted for Steele.
Davidson kicks off to W. and L. Silverstine returning the ball 15 yards. Silverstine loses 1 yard. Silverstine fails to
gain. Raines gains 5 yards over right guard. Silverstine gains 1 yard over right guard. Ball goes over. Davidson's ball
on W. and L.'s 9-yard line. Spann gains 15 yards over right tackle and first down. Massie gains 2 over
center. McFadden gains 3 yards over left tackle. Spencer goes in for Abrogast. Spann gains 1 yard through center. W.
& L. penalized 5 yards, offside. End of half. Score: Davidson 6, W. and L. 0.

THIRD QUARTER.

Davidson kicks to W. and L. Rains gained 5 yards. Boch gains 1 yard through center. Spann gains 5 yards
over left tackle. Boch lost 3 yards on a run.around left end. Silverstein gains 15 yards over left guard. First
down, Silverstein fails to gain. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Silverstein gains 10 yards, Rains gains 5 yards over center.
Silverstein gains 5 yards over left tackle. Spencer gains 3 yards over left guard, Silverstein gains 4 yards. Abrogast gains
2 yards over center. Spencer fails to gain. Ball goes over. Davidson's ball on own 5-yard line. Pass failed. Spann
goes 2 yards around left end. Pass to Johnson gets 20 more. Davidson penalized 10 yards for holding. Davidson's ball
on own 30-yard line. Spann gains 5 yards around left end. Johnson goes around left end for 65 yards and
touchdown. Spann kicks goal. Score: Davidson 13, W. and L. 0. Davidson kicks off to W. and L. Rains gains
1 yard over center. Silverstein gains 6 yards over left guard. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Spencer failed to gain.
Silverstein gains 4 yards over right tackle. Quarter up. Score: Davidson 13, W. and L. 0.

FOURTH QUARTER

W. and L.'s ball on own 45-yard line. Silverstein lost 2 yards on end run. W. and L. punts to
Spann, who returns 20 yards. McFadden gains 3 yards over left tackle. Pass to Douglass failed. Pass to Massie gains
10 yards. Johnson gains 6 yards through center. Spencer gains 1 yard over center. First down. McFadden failed to gain.
McAllister goes in for McFadden. McAllister gains 5 yards over right tackle. Spann gains 4 yards. First down. McAllister gains
8 yards over center. Pass failed. Spann failed to gain around right end. Ball goes over. W. and L.'s ball
on own 20-yard line. Pass failed. Spencer gains 2 yards over right tackle. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Pass by
W. and L. interfered and caught by LeFar. Massie goes around right end for touchdown. Spann kicks goal. Score: 20
to 0. Abrogast goes in for Silverstein. Davidson kicks off to W. and L. Spencer returns 10 yards. Pass completed.
Spencer failed to gain. Pass to Johnson gains 10 yards. Game over. Final score: Davidson 20, W. and L. 0.

Substitutions—W. and L.: Spencer for Abrogast, Cato for Steele, Abrogast for Silverstein. Davidson: McAllister for McFadden, LeFar for Robson. Lieutenant
Dwyn, referee; Mr. Moore, umpire; Reid (W. and L.) head linesman.

Philip O. Hart, ’19, who has been in the hospital in Charlotte with pneumonia, is reported to be improving.

LeFar goes in.

November 13, 1918

PROGRESSIVE IRELAND

An Irishman and a Scot were arguing as to the merits of their respective countries. “Ah, weel,” said Sandy, “they
tore down an auld castle in Scotland and found many wires under it, which shows that the telegraph was known
there hundreds o’ years ago.” “Well,” said Pat, “they tore down an ould castle in Ireland, and there were no
wires found under it, which shows that they knew all about wireless telegraphy in Ireland hundreds of years ago.”—Pittsburg Chronicle
Telegraph.

The students are glad to see Professor Currie out again after his severe attack of pneumonia. It is hoped that
he will be able to assume his class work again soon.

Germany Does Not Keep Us From Delivering THE BEST FRESH MEAT

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED

White's Market Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

STUDENT

Brown's Cafe THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

We didn’t sell out— We are right here

Military Goods in the best line of O. D. Moleskin Uniforms........ $15 O. D. Short Overcoats. ..$10 to $19.50 O.
D. Long Overcoats.. .$27.50 to $50 Regulation Hats........ $2.50 to $6.00 Regulation Caps.......... $2 to $3.50 Leather Puttees....... $3.98 to
$16.50 FULL STOCK OF MILITARY ACCESSORIES

Belk Bros. “SELL IT FOR LESS” Address MAIL ORDER DEPT.

CANDIES FRUITS and Other Eats in Town

L. A. ELLIOT COLLEGE JEWELRY WRIST WATCHES AND ALARM CLOCKS

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

W. M. Torrence, Jeweler

Z. K. JUSTICE DENTIST Office Over Bank Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Frye & Gibson Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes TRY US

Booe’s Market Fresh Meats At All Times

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. . . Fountain. . . “The Rexall
Store”

Exclusive Agents for DUNLAP HATS and Hirsh Wickwire & Co.’s FINEST of Clothing Ready-to-Wear Military Uniforms and Accessories

CLAUDE BROWN, Inc. 34 South Tryon Street

Drink at our Sanitary Fountain We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
