The DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1918

With the Alumni

JOHN M. WEARN.

A letter from France, received November 6, announced the death of J. M. Wearn, ex-'19, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Wearn, of Charlotte. Wearn lost his life as a result of pneumonia following Spanish influenza. He had dropped out
of college during his Sophomore year and was living in Charlotte up to the time of his enlistment. He had
been eager to enlist ever since war was declared. His father dissuaded him, holding that he was too young, but
one day last May he made up his mind to enlist, and did. He was attached to the Fifth Coast
Artillery, at Fort Caswell, near Wilmington. After being in the army less than a month he went over, and his
death occurred the latter part of October in a Red Cross hospital in France. Donald Wearn was one of the
most promising members of his class and his withdrawal from college was greatly regretted. Quiet and pleasant, he was soon
well liked on the campus. His classmates and others who knew him will hear of his death with sorrow. Davidson's
sympathy is extended to the parents for the loss of their second son.

FIRST PAY DAY WAS RED LETTER DAY HERE

Tuesday, November the twelfth, nineteen hundred and eighteen! Mark it in red ink on your calendar. On that day the
members of the Davidson College S. A. T. C. received their first remuneration for working for Uncle Sam at the
rate of a dollar a day. Never in the history of the college has there been so much “coin” turned
loose on the campus at one time. The storekeepers wish the men had a pay day every day, for the
memory of man runneth not to the contrary that laborers always celebrate pay day. Some celebrated in one way, some
in another; some stayed in the rooms to celebrate and some went to town. “Red” Smith had a big celebration—smoked
a cigar. While the “Boy Scouts” were digging trenches, Companies A, B, and C were lined up in alphabetical order
and marched into the headquarters, where they were paid their just dues. Some got as much as $30, while one
man got only $1. It made no visible difference how much they got—every man came out with a smile on
his face, for the majority of the men were prouder of that money than any they have ever made. Some
even talked of keeping it intact as a souvenir.

“Take back your heart!! The bitter words She said with lips a-quiver— “Take back your heart, base butcher man: You
know I ordered liver!"—Ex.

RED CROSS CHAPTER MAKING CHRISTMAS BOXES

The War and Post Office Departments and the American Red Cross have made an arrangement by which every man in
the army overseas may receive a Christmas parcel from his family or friends. The following is a list of the
principal classes of articles which are unmailable:

1. All spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented or other intoxicating liquors.
2. All kinds of poison and all articles and compositions containing poison.
3. Explosives of all kinds.
4. Inflammable materials, including friction matches.
5. Infernal machines and mechanical, chemical or other devices of compositions which may ignite or explode.

Note—Under this classification...would come Cigarette lighters, etc. 6. Liquids or liquefiable articles, fragile articles, and other admissible matter when not
packed in accordance with the requirements of the Postal Laws and Regulations. 3. All other articles which may kill, or
in any wise hurt, harm, or injure another, or damage or deface or otherwise injure the mails or other property.

The following are instructions for sending Christmas Boxes to our soldiers overseas. The War and Post Office Departments and the
American Red Cross have made an arrangement by which every man in the army overseas may receive a Christmas Parcel
from his family or friends. The amount of shipping space which can be set aside for the transportation of these
parcels will permit the sending of but one parcel to each man.

The local Red Cross in Davidson has already packed twenty boxes for those boys in France who have no parents
nor homes. They will be glad to have any contributions for this purpose either in money or in boxes from
any who feel inclined to give. Chances for contributions to this cause will be open until November 30.

TOWN ITEMS.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young have been spending several days in Concord.

Dr. J. M. McConnell and his three sons spent the weekend in McConnells ville with the father of Dr. McConnell.

Mr. Chas. Grey and family left Monday morning for their new home at Hendersonville, N.C.

The friends of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ex-president of Davidson and now president of Washington and Lee University, were glad
to have him on the campus on November 15. It is to be regretted that his visit was so brief.

The friends of Miss Grace James are glad to welcome her to this town. She is here on a visit
to her uncle, Dr. John Douglas.

Mrs. Woods, the mother of Prof. W. W. Woods, is here from Charlottesville, on a visit.

Miss Eloise Martin was at home last week spending the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Wm. J. Martin.

“This afternoon,” announced the presiding officer at a conference of ministers, “Elder Jones will read a paper on ‘The Devil.’
Please be prompt in attendance, for Brother Jones has spent much time on the paper, and is full of his
subject.”—Ex.

Mellon’s Clothes for Young Men are designed and tailored for us by experts. Mellon quality is the same now as
before the war. Knox and Stetson Hats. Exclusive Haberdashery, Etc. Mail orders have our prompt attention. Trades. Mellon’s Charlotte, Trade
St. N.C.

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts In North Carolina BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N.C. Mail Orders a Specialty

“Military Outfitters” Kuppenheimer Uniforms—the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. —Barnistee Puttees Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices Also
complete line of Men’s and Young Men’s SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc. “WE SAVE YOU MONEY” V. WALLACE & SONS 31-33
West Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro

Foot Ball Equipment Sweaters MARLEY 2 1/4 IN. DEVON 2 1/2 IN. Jerseys And the implements for every athletic game,
of course. A. G. SPALDING & Bros. 74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

COLLARS CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS
