The DAVIDSONIAN, January 23, 1918

LITERARY SOCIETIES SCHEDULE

Debate, Saturday night, January 26:
Resolved, That the proposed Peace League should be adopted at the conclusion of the war.

Eumenean—Affirmative: Allen, Byrd, and Dendy. Negative: Burgess, Carlisle, and Cunningham.
Declamations: Craig and Harrell.

Philanthropic—Affirmative: McDonald, Spense, and J. W. McAlister. Negative: Alexander, Sample, and L. L. Wilson.
Orations: Boney, R. D. Hall, and Mountcastle.
Extemporaneous: Neel and Kornegay.

Phi Junior program for January 28—
Affirmative: Morrison and Witherspoon. Negative: W. C. Knight and Hodgin.
Declamations: Booker and P. C. Garth.

The initiation exercise of the Freshmen into the Eumenean Society took place last Saturday night when seven of the new men lined up with the regular society. Yet it was not only the promising graduates of the Fresh Society that made their debut into the upper society but also some of the great orators of antiquity. Spartacus of Gladiator fame was there and told the exact truth about his address to the fighters at Capua. Cicero was there and told what all he would do if he were alive and in the Senate today. He showed a marvelous acquaintance with the version of his oration against Cataline as described by Messrs. Noble and Noble. Demosthenes appeared and acknowledged that his success in oratory is due to the famous pebbles, and as evidence produced some of the pebbles. Up to a late hour last night, the committee of investigation had not been able to decide whether it was really a pebble or a piece of chewing gum. Mr. W. J. Bryan came forth in regalia which undoubtedly showed the effects of grape juice. Patrick Henry showed the only correct way to utter the famous words “Give me liberty or give me death.” J. R. Woods and Liston also spoke.

Not only was the society graced by the presence of the famous orators of the world, but it also settled for the last time one of the puzzling questions that have vexed the wise men of the earth from the time that the memory of man runneth not to the contrary. The subject that the debaters of the Fresh Society held up for consideration was, “Resolved, that the hen that lays the egg rather than the hen that hatches it, is the mother of the chicken.” The affirmative maintained that as the hen went through such a sacrifice in laying the egg it was only just that she be given credit for the performance. The negative, on the other hand, contended that the setting hen is compelled to make a greater sacrifice, is compelled to deny herself the pleasures of the world in order to bring forth the chicken. The negative contended that while the hen that laid the egg produced the egg, it was the hen that hatched it that produced the chicken. The negative drew an awe-inspiring picture of the efforts of a hen to protect her young, and cited as authority aWonderful tale of a hen pursuing a man until he was compelled to take refuge on the roof of a barn. The audience listened attentively to the affirmative, and so decided in favor of the negative. Several speeches were made welcoming the Freshmen into the society and offering them encouragement.

PHI SOCIETY.

The first regular meeting of the Philanthropic Society, since the holidays, was held Saturday night, January 19. The subject for debate was: Resolved, that the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all Interstate Railroad Systems. The affirmative was supported by J. W. Clark, Foscu, and C. Howell. The negative by W. C. Cumming and Davis. Several of the debaters showed a lack of preparation. Both Clark and Cumming brought out several good points. The majority of the judges voted in favor of the negative side. Because of the coldness of the hall, the remainder of the program was dispensed with. Lott Warren, in list, should have been Warren C. Lott.

For Sale AT A REDUCTION

One New Webster’s International DICTIONARY
Buckram binding, indexed, 400,000 words, 6,000 illustrations, 2,700 pages.
J. A. THAMES

Musical Homes Are Happy Homes

Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.

STIEFF
219 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Booe’s Market

Southern Railway System

ARE YOU READY

Reaches QUICKLY and CONVENIENTLY, With Frequent and Splendidly Equipped Trains All Points NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST Pullman Sleeping Cars and Dining Car Service On ALL THROUGH TRAINS Low Summer and Winter Excursion Fares On Sale To Resort Points Special Attention Given To Athletic Trips For detailed information call on or write S. E. BURGESS, Division Passenger Agent, Charlotte, N. C.

With High-Class Shoes?

Complete line of High Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest prices to be found on the Hill.

Gilmer Moore Co.
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Gentlemen!

When in need of TONSORIAL Work, give us a trial.

Rutledge Norton
Next door to Post Office.

LET THE DAVIDSON PRESSING CLUB DO YOUR PRESSING

For Painting, Calcimining, and Varnishing Phone 69-J

Tate’s Barber Shop
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Special Attention to Davidson Men

Kodak Developing

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

L. C. BRAND,
Fresh Meats, Fish and Oysters
TELEPHONE 70-4

MANHATTAN SHIRT SALE

BUY THE BEST

We are showing a complete assortment of patterns. Kuppenheimer Overcoats reduced 25 to 33 1-2 per cent.

V. Wallace & Sons
31-33 West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury and Greensboro

Save your SHOES

SHU-FIXERY of CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Williamson & McDonald, Agents
Power House

BOOKS.-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES

Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A Nice Line of Pennants College Jewelry, Ingersoll Watches and Alarm Clocks

W. M. Torrence : The Jeweler

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.