The DAVIDSONIAN. November 20, 1918

Since the last issue of The Davidsonian, the names of the following Davidson men have come in for the Honor Roll:

Harry Bartley Elliott, '18, Company K, 3rd Prov. Reg., 156th Depot Brigade, Camp Sevier, Greenville, S.C.
Arnold London Currie, ex-'20, R.O.T.C., California.
William Simpson Overton, '18, U.S.N.
Milton Antony Candler, '14.
John Anderson Carriker, '15, Camp Polk, Raleigh, N.C.

The following poem was written in memory of Frank Hollingsworth Smith, aged 21, who fell to instant death in an aeroplane accident on Taliaferro Field, Fort Worth, Tex., Oct. 5, 1918. He was operating a camera gun in his last flight before “going over.” The poem may apply also to our other aviator who lost his life in France, Ervin D. Shaw.

The call of country and of all humanity
Was in his ears;
And in his heart leapt up a flame,
Pure flame, which in its burning
Is a crucible,
Transforming youth to manhood.
He chose the hardest way
To serve.
The land and sea
Have arduous tasks,
But over land and sea
Man has long claimed mastery;
The air, scarce conquered still,
Demands the clearest brain, the surest hand.
He gave his gift of brain and hand and more,
His gift of life.
Ah! life is sweet to youth;
Unmeasured possibilities lie in its grasp.
Richness of vision, joy in the very breath;
So much to do,
Such consciousness of power!
All this is youth,
And this is what he gave,
Now is it lost? that life,
So short but full of gain;
So rich in promise for the time-to-be;
So ready, yet cut off
Before one blow was struck to cleave the way
For Peace, the Universal.
No; the fine brain no longer guides the hand,
The hand no more directs the winged ship;
But that pure flame which burned within his breast
Nothing can stay.
It leaps out, even now:
The story is not told of one so young,
So resolute, so brave,—
Who gave his all—
But other hearts will burn,
And other hands will reach out
To take the task which he was called to leave;
The inspiration of his life, his death,
Is limitless.
—Lila Riney.

FRANK SMITH'S FUNERAL CONDUCTED WITH DIGNITY

The funeral was held October 9, 10 a.m., from the broad piazza of the spacious old family residence, under whose roof he was welcomed twenty-one years ago, into the life of a devoted circle. The services were impressive, appropriate, and beautiful. “Not half was ever told”—which was his favorite lullaby as a child and loved always—was sung by male voices. Reading and appropriate remarks by Rev. S. W. DuBose, a tribute by Lt. J. H. Martin, a young aviator friend who was the loving escort from Fort Worth. A platoon of soldiers from Camp Sevier attended to do him honor. When the body had been reverently placed in the vault, the military salute was fired over the grave, a bugler sounded “taps,” to which another responded softly and tenderly as a last farewell to the young soldier who was borne to his last resting place beneath the nation’s flag. The great number, rare loveliness, and significant designs of the floral tributes testified the wide and great affection in which Frank Smith was held, as did the vast throng of friends of every walk and station from the community and many from a distance, who came to manifest the respect and love they felt for him.

THE FLU.

I've got the flu!
Have you?
Yes; I’ve had it quite a spell,
And it makes me feel like—well,
I'm a lady, but I've got the flu.
When the sun was shining bright,
I got the flu;
And I felt all hot and tight,
With the flu.
I would sneeze and then I'd cough
Till my head would near come off;
Then I'd madly spit and froth
With the flu.
But I’m feeling almost well now
From the flu;
Yet they say, “Just stay in bed, child,
With the flu.
It's not time yet to disperse,
And you might get so much worse.”
Sure I think it is a curse—
This here flu!

If you want to be contented,
Cultivate the “Golden Rule.”
Don't imagine you're the only:
There are others on the roll,
Who must have a little “sayso”
In the way that things are run.
Stop and think for just a minute,
Is my advice to every one.

A LETTER FROM FRANCE.

Dear Children:

Under date of September 22, wrote your mother as follows:

We must have been marching now it seems the whole month all night long and staggering with men and horses into camp at dawn—then feed and water for horses and rub down, and breakfast and sleep from 9 to 12, and same treatment for horses and then sleep till 5, then tremendous feed for men and same for horses and all night long again on these beautiful French roads, for we are due hundred miles away to participate in another drive. This is the story. Distances are not far in France, but seven-ton guns are heavy, and nothing but beautiful moonlit stone roads with shade trees on each side make these night marches.possible, and marching by day is forbidden for many reasons. Our horses! poor artillery horses! why should they suffer for the folly of man? Lame, and they follow on three legs; thirsty, and they famish; hungry, and they hunger, but kindness, caresses, and all we have, they get. Each horse has a man who goes hungry and shivers for the welfare of that horse, for that horse is moving us to Berlin. After a week we arrive and the guns, but in that last mile! The major dismounts, as all his officers have done, and Leo, bucking and charging, unused to harness, is hitched in. The major's charger in draft completes the last broken-down team that puts the last gun in place ready for shells, when we would have sworn our horses could not do it. If the Allies win this war, then give the praise to the artillery horse. No men or body of men deserve the credit, for his suffering is done silently, uncomplainingly, with no hope of gain, personal glory, or revenge. When men suffer, they cry out and the advance ceases, but when a horse groans, the men curse and drive on. This is why we hate militarism which spares neither man nor horse. On this hike, I saw one crippled giant draft horse succor not less than twenty walking cannoneers. After an hour of riding, the rider would be pulled off and succeeded by another, who would put his head on the noble neck and sleep while the animal plodded on behind the gun carriage to which he was tied. No wonder we love our animals and wish to be motorized, to save them for pursuits more suited to their kindly natures. Now we are placed again, and the Boche in retreat, and surely ere this reaches you, we will reclaim Alsace-Lorraine. Is this not worth any amount of sacrifice? Or rather, could anything that man could do for such an end be considered sacrifice? We will call it duty! Received letters at my old place and rode for several days and now resting. Have not had time to read them until today. Have had them seven days. How is that for hard work? Haven't had but two hours leave for six weeks. Am entitled to seven days after four months, which is about up. Now, listen, from now on, I am going to write when convenient. Letters written under pressure as this has been are very unsatisfactory. I shall wait until at leisure, which comes when we are opposed to the enemy. The fight is easy as compared to the preparation. Do you know there is no more pleasant life than a hard life, when you can stagger to a bed of rocks and put your hat over your eyes, and thank God that it is not raining on your own downy bed; when you can crush hard tack by soaking it in greenishly black coffee, and swear that nothing is better, and abuse the cooks because your coffee gives out after your first quart. When you have had four hours of this sleep and all the coffee available, you are fit for twenty hours more of hard going, every one of which makes a similar bed and the same bitter coffee sweeter and more delightful in retrospect and anticipation, and the hope for more gives strength to failing limbs and encouragement to sleepy brains. We will hardly participate in fighting this winter. What war lacks of being hell the weather is, and we might whip the Boche by exposing him to the weather this winter. Everything is so wildly optimistic. Our successes are so easy that they are disappointing. Letters from home and friends are encouraging. You ask for details. This letter is full. Am very strong. No weather or exposure or fatigue bothers me. We are all fit. Open air and exercise in it prevents every sickness. The French women exemplify this. The sun is out, a miserable water-logged camp has been transformed into a veritable sunlit garden, and the men are happy again. The horses are drying and it is pleasant again. So it will be with the whole world, and after the war, and even now the duty of victory is being welcomed by friend and foes and nothing else matters. Love to all, and hope to see you soon. There is much to laugh at and you know our sense of humor is self-sustaining. Your affectionate son, LeRoy.

Rifle Instructor: (after a fifteen-minute lecture about the rifle) — "Where is the balance of your piece?"
Rookie: — "Sir, this is all of me."

When Kaiser Bill Receives.
"What is the first thing General Pershing will say when he gets in Berlin?"
"Bill, we are here." — Portland Press.

For the Season
HIGH CLASS SHOES
A Complete Line of Military Shoes
Gilmer - Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres.,
W. J. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier