2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone........ Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames...... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie......... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
R. F. McClure
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Woods, Jr.
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are A. M. Mitchell, C. K. Brown, J. M. Walton, W. P. Cumming, and M. I. Edwards.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

DO PROFESSORS GET JUSTICE?

How did you feel when you got your last mid-term if it had a good many “Excellents” and every professor had marked you “Punctual,” of “Clean Habits,” and those other complimentary things? How did you feel when during a little conference with a professor he told you that you were doing good work in his department and that you were making marked improvement? You were elated and were glad that he told you that. You were encouraged and felt that you would do better work.

How many professors did you ever go to at the end of a term’s work and tell them that you enjoyed their course and that you had gotten inestimable good from them? We feel that most of us are not guilty. It is a piece of gross carelessness on our part. The professor is not a mechanism which rotates from class to class in the same stolid manner. He is human just as we. Just as you felt encouraged so will he feel that his course is appreciated (if you tell him so) and hence he will find great satisfaction in this, for in this course or courses his soul is entwined. This expression of appreciation is due him if you really like his course. It is nothing but justice.

This policy of making the professor feel that his work is appreciated has not generally been in vogue here. An analysis shows this is due largely to two reasons: first, neglectfulness; and secondly, the idea is conceived that the professor will think that the student is trying to get a “pull,” or that he is trying to “sew up a pass.” This second reason is probably wholly an unsound one. If you were to be conditioned, you are going to be conditioned (something of predestination) whatever you may say to the professor. From first-hand authority we say that it is sustaining to a teacher to hear favorable comments on his courses. Then the only obstacle to overcome is the first one—that of neglect and thoughtlessness—the bane of a person’s progress and complete rounding out of a higher development.

This Spring, after examinations are over, if you have enjoyed and have gotten great good from a course—tell the professor so. It is your duty, it is due to the instructor, and he will appreciate it.

Visitors—Welcome to our campus.

To every Junior on the program we wish the very best of luck with that speech.

The universal springtime sport—throwing horseshoes—has revived.

IMPROVEMENTS MADE ON THE CAMPUS

During the last two weeks a squad of men has been busy on the campus, raking up leaves, moving trees, and improving the campus in general. The grounds will be in splendid condition by the time Junior Speaking comes around. Since the use of various paths across the campus has been discontinued a noticeable difference in the appearance of the grounds has been noticed. For a short time it seemed that the lawn in front of Rumple and Watts was to be hopelessly marred, due to the onslaught of many ambitious young ball players. However, it was decided to give the students the use of the plot near the water tanks and in front of Georgia building for the purpose of athletic pursuits. Accordingly, the young trees on this tract were moved to the space in front of Rumple and Watts, and appear to be thriving. The lawn in front of the dormitories is a prominent spot and it is well that it should remain beautiful.

TOWN ITEMS.

Mrs. C. I. Herrick, of Florida, is visiting her parents, Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford.

Privates Louis Johnston and Conrad Shelton, of Camp Sevier, spent a few days in town with their parents.

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Allison and Mrs. P. B. Fetzer, of Concord, spent Saturday in town.

Miss Bonnie Shelton, who is teaching in the eastern part of the State, and her brother, Mr. Robert Shelton, spent the week-end in town with their parents.Many friends of Mrs. V. W. Currie will be sorry to hear that she is ill at the home of her son, Professor A. Currie. Mrs. J. S. Worth returned Saturday from a short visit in the eastern part of the State.

* * *

Misses Myrtle Williamson and Grace Bradley, both from Queens College, spent the weekend in Davidson, visiting their brother and cousin, O. C. Williamson, '18.

DO YOU THINK SO, TOO?

Dear Sir: Send me The Davidsonian each week this spring. Although I am not at D. C. this spring, I am always glad to get any kind of news from there, and I think The Davidsonian the best and the only way to get the real “College News.”

Sincerely yours,
D. C. Corritter.
Landis, N. C.

By the rotation of events and the irresistible logic of righteousness which summons every brave arm to the right side of the cause, the United States has entered this war. And it will never turn back until it has given the world peace: not merely a cessation of conflict, but a peace based on righteousness.—Newton Baker.

POLITY CLUB LEARNS OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

The Polity Club was fortunate in having Dr. Ussher for an address last Thursday evening. Because of his intimate knowledge of the subject, Dr. Ussher was able to give many new ideas concerning the political relations in the Near East. The meeting was an open meeting, and many were in attendance in addition to the members of the club.

The first part of Dr. Ussher's address was a discussion of the foreknowledge that the Turks had of the approach of the European war. In 1898, the time of Emperor Wilhelm’s visit to Constantinople, the Turkish army became a part of the German military machine and joined with the Germans in planning for an empire from the North Sea to the Indian Ocean.

In 1915, the Turkish government decided to massacre all Christians—native and American. The United States government requested Russia to undertake the protection of our interests in Turkey, and the Russian government immediately planned for any eventualities.

Dr. Ussher then talked of the attitude of the Germans to the Armenian massacres. He said that the outrages committed by the Turks were known and ordered by the Imperial government. The Armenians were a progressive, industrious people and although they have not had self-government for six hundred years, they were devoted to their country and will not give up their language. The German government ordered the intellectual leaders among the Armenians to be killed and the remainder deported along the Berlin-Bagdad railway.

Dr. Ussher said that he believes that the Turks hate the Germans worse than any other nation on earth. Constantinople is a German city. It is under German police, but the citizens feel that if the police were removed, the German residents would be killed.

In answer to a question as to the advisability of the United States declaring war on Turkey, he said that we could gain nothing by such a course. He said that a declaration of war on Turkey at present would simply mean the utter destruction, by the Germans, of all American property in Turkey.

Dr. Ussher was able to throw a new light on the character and possibilities of the Russians. They are a good, kind-hearted people who hate no one—not even the Germans. He declared that the only hope for Russia was for Germany to demand so much and advance so far into Russia that the whole nation will become thoroughly aroused and strike back.

Germany does not keep us from delivering The Best Fresh Meat
Phone orders solicited
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Complete change of program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville
YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

When you pay a social debt with Wieers Chocolates you get large returns in appreciation. Do you owe someone a box now?
White Drug Co.

LIBRARY NEWS.

The following books have just been received at the Library: “America Among the Nations,” by Powers; “The Citizen,” by Shaler; “Foreign Policy of Woodrow Wilson,” by Robinson and West; “Social Problems,” by Towne; “Principles of American Diplomacy,” by Moore; and “Modern City and Its Problems,” by Howe.

Spalding Sweaters
Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS,
74 N. BROAD ST.
ATLANTA, GA.

THE COMMISSARY
Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.

The ladies of the Missionary Society of the Presbyterian Church had a series of meetings this past week, and the self-denial offering amounted to approximately $150.00.