The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Editorial Board:
R. H. Stone................. Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly.................... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods.............. Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames............. Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie............... Athletic Editor

The Staff:
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
J. B. Woods, Jr.
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Wood

Management:
O. J. Thies, Jr............. Business Manager
M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone................. Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: A. M. Mitchell, F. M. Walton, D. L. Mahood, I. C. McCaskill, M. F. Edwards, and W. C. Knight.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

When it comes to the Sophs making the Honor Roll they are where Moses was when the light went out—in the dark. But we pay our compliments to the one who made the highest mark in college. He finds time for Davidsonian and Magazine work, debating, and other college activities. We wish that he might have some classmates with him.

Was it the Devil or his devilish sprite—the Kaiser—who put the germ in German?

USEFUL INFORMATION TO SENIORS AND ALUMNI

Doubtless many of our readers know something of the United States Employment Service, that branch of our National Government operating some eighty-five public (free) employment offices throughout the United States. We believe, however, that very few know that at one of these offices, that at Chicago, IL, a section has been set apart for the sole benefit of professional men and women, known as the Teachers and Professional Service Division. Through this division, the Government endeavors to find suitable positions for teachers and professional engineers (draftsmen, civil, mechanical, electrical engineers, chemists, metallurgists, etc.), and suitable persons for school officers and employers needing such help. In a few words, this division is a Teachers’ and Engineering Agency, operated by the United States Government.

Dr. P. B. Prentis, Acting Director of Employment for Illinois, under whose jurisdiction this division is operated, reports that during the past year it has been found impossible to find enough teachers to supply the need, and many attractive positions throughout the United States have been unfilled for this reason. It has frequently happened, however, that immediately after a position had been reported filled through other sources, a suitable candidate would effect registration. Of course, it was then too late to nominate the teacher for that particular position. Dr. Prentis earnestly hopes that such occasions may be quite infrequent during the 1918-19 appointment season. This can only be accomplished by every available teacher being registered in the division before the opening of the appointment season. We therefore suggest that if you expect to be available for a new position for the next year that you write Dr. Prentis immediately for a registration blank. Then, when the appointment season opens in April or May, your record will be complete and the division may be able to nominate you for the first suitable position reported. Registration in the Teachers’ and Professional Service Division will also benefit you in other ways for, should you learn of a position for which you would like to apply through any other source, the division will, if asked, send copies of your confidential record to the school officer to whom application is made.

What has been said above in regard to teachers applies with equal force to the other professions cared for by this division. Although this phase of the work was not commenced until October, 1917, the demand for mechanical engineers, designers, draftsmen, chemists, and metallurgists has been far greater than the supply. To our Seniors we say, “If you are preparing for any branch of the engineering profession, register with the division as soon as possible.” To our alumni we say, “If you are dissatisfied with your present position, write to Dr. Prentis at once for a registration blank. The division has some very attractive positions listed, and it may be possible for you to secure one of these.”

Any communications intended for this division should be addressed: Teachers’ and Professional Service Division, U.S. Employment Service, 845 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, IL. Applicants for registration should indicate the kind of work desired so that the proper blank may be sent. It will be a convenience to the division if you will enclose with your letter a self-addressed legal size (4x9½) envelope with a three-cent stamp affixed.

SOLDIER AND SAILOR INSURANCE

In a short time, a million checks a month will be issued from the Bureau of War-Risk Insurance to the families of the men constituting...America’s fighting force. There had been up to January 18, 1918, 473,116 applications for total insurance of $4,011,391,000. The average amount applied for still keeps near the maximum of $10,000. A steady effort is being made to make our fighting forces “100 per cent insured,” and there are many military units in which every member is insured and in some of them every man insured for the maximum of $10,000. The automatic insurance granted by the law ceases on February 12, but by that time it is hoped that our whole military and naval forces will be “100 per cent insured,” with the result that the family or dependents of everyone having a family or anyone dependent on him will be provided with a monthly allowance, and insurance in case of his death. The member himself, if disabled, will receive a monthly allowance, and if totally disabled, will receive in addition rehabilitation and special education and training to fit him for some work. The efforts of the Treasury Department to have every member of the military and naval forces insured under this law can be greatly assisted by the people at home of the soldiers and sailors if they will join in urging them to take out the insurance offered.

LOCAL PASTOR ADDRESSES MINISTERIAL BAND

Last Sunday the Ministerial Band was addressed by Rev. Mr. Jenkins, pastor of the Methodist Church of Davidson. He spoke on the subject, “The Minister and His Wife.” The speaker urged that every ministerial student should marry by all means when he should complete his education. Every minister should be particular in choosing a helpmeet with a good heart, soul, and mind. A minister’s wife should be physically strong, well trained, well educated, and above all endowed with common sense and a willingness to work. The speaker stated that the minister's wife should not accompany him in making calls, because the people want to talk over their troubles with the minister, and the wife would prevent them from doing so. He further stated that the wife should take an active part in all church work, but that she should not take a leading position. The minister should dress his wife just as well as himself or as any of his members. He also called to the attention of the band that if a pastor cared for his people, they would care for him, and that in proportion to the number of prominent young men of our country, the largest percent has come from the minister's home.

SOME ADVANTAGES OF THE SMALL COLLEGE

While admitting the place of the large technical and professional schools and the universities, those who have had experience with both large and small colleges feel strongly the advantages of the small college in town or country over the large city colleges. The following are among the advantages which will appeal directly to a student who contemplates a college course as a basis for professional or technical studies:

First, as to the matter of expense, since this is the question that presents itself first to many students as a condition of college education. The expense of a college education at a small college is less by a third (we are assured by some, by a half) than the expense of such an education in the city colleges.

Secondly, the small college has for the serious student this great advantage—an easy access to the professor both in his own home and at college. At the large colleges, the classes are large and the professors live often miles away, so that, as those who have attended the large colleges know well enough, the personal relation between professor and student is at the minimum. What easy access to the professor means in the way of stimulus and actual help, those who have experienced it can well appreciate.

Thirdly, in the small college in town or country the distractions, social and other, are less, and a student can give himself more easily and steadily to his work.

Fourthly, the student who goes as a stranger to college will establish himself much more quickly in the friendship and activities of the small college than he could in those of the large cities.

—The Missionary Survey.

Spalding Sweaters
Made throughout in Spalding sanitary factories of the best quality worsted, in all styles, colors, and prices. Complete details in our Catalogue, mailed on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. BROAD ST.
ATLANTA, GA.

THE COMMISSARY

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

Germany does not keep us from delivering
The Best Fresh Meat
Phone orders solicited
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

The PIEDMONT THEATRE
NORTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Complete change of program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville
YOUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED

...Go to...
Armour Bro.’s & Thompson’s
for Dr. Munsing’s Army Last Shoes
Either Black or Tan

Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.