The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
E. F. A. Woods ... Editor-in-Chief
G. A. Byrd ... Assignment Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr. ... Managing Editor

The Staff:
A. R. Craig
D. M. Chalmers
B. B. Shields
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
S. T. McCloy

Management:
T. C. Stone ... Business Manager
P. R. Alexander and C. W. Foreman ... Assistant Managers
K. A. Parker ... Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample ... Assistant Manager

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of '19 — R. C. Garth
Class of '20 — L. G. Calhoun, A. L. Wilson, J. C. McCaskill
Class of '21 — W. P. Cumming, A. M. Mitchell, I. B. Schenck, C. G. Lilly

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

JOHN MACDONALD WEARN

J. M. Wearn, ex-'19, will be remembered by only a few men now on the campus, the Seniors and some of the Juniors, as he dropped out of college during his second year. But those of us who knew him will hear with regret of his death, the fourth Davidson man, of whom we have record, to give up his life in France, and the fourth Davidson man in service to succumb to pneumonia following Spanish influenza. Tho below draft age, he felt it his duty to volunteer, and last spring joined the Coast Artillery. Wearn's courteous and pleasant disposition gained him many warm friends while on the campus and his characteristic steadiness promised to put him well ahead of the average, when he should have gone out into the world for himself. His death is a loss to the world as well as to his people. The sympathy of his class and all who knew him go out to his loved ones in their grief.

EXPLANATION

Putting out a paper such as The Davidsonian may seem a simple matter to some. But working under the conditions to which the staff has been subjected this year, it is emphatically not a simple matter. The general uncertainty of everything for the last two months has made the editing of college papers no easy affair. But what we wish to say frankly is this: All material for the paper must be sent to Charlotte by Monday night for Wednesday's issue. In the last month things have happened in days, which before took months to develop. Peace was expected, but there was so much uncertainty in the air, that it came with a rather startling effect. So if matters should so change between Monday and Wednesday that what news we print is stale or false, don't blame it on us. It’s the fault of the times. If the S. A. T. C. should disband on a Tuesday and there should be none on the campus Wednesday to read in The Davidsonian that the S. A. T. C. will continue to run throughout the year, don't blame us. It's rather exasperating, after all material has gone to press, to watch events reverse news which is to come out the next day. The staff is doing its best to put out a live, newsy paper, but we'll need your comprehension and consideration to make it a success. Any suggestions or criticism will be appreciated.

THE STATE CHAMPIONSHIP

At last Davidson can claim a well-earned State Football Championship. After losing it by one game for the last two years, no one can object to our claim to that title this fall. In 1916 we lost the honor to Carolina by a 10 to 6 score, and last year to A. and E. by a 6 to 4 score, but this year the tables are turned and our gridiron warriors have brought home the trophy. Carolina's defeat Saturday by a 19 to 7 count, tho our only game with colleges in the State, clinched firmly the championship in our favor. The only other State colleges in were A. and E. and Wake Forest. Georgia Tech's overwhelming defeat of A. and E. to the tune of 128 to 0, and V. P. I.'s victory over the same institution 25 to 0, conclusively eliminate her from the race. Wake Forest's defeat at the hands of Carolina (13 to 7) two weeks ago killed her chances also. We are looking forward with the deepest interest to our biggest game of the season, that with our Thanksgiving rival, Clemson. From reports, Clemson has a strong team this year, defeating Citadel last Saturday 7 to 0. Coach Fetzer’s followers are not overconfident as to the result next week, but realize that they have a good, old-time scrap ahead, so that a close, snappy game can be expected in Charlotte next week. The friendly tho spirited athletic rivalry which has been going on for the last few years between Clemson and Davidson has drawn the two institutions closer together, and Davidson is proud to carry on athletic relations with such an institution as Clemson. May they never depart from their present cordial relations!

CHEER UP

Lots of things have gone wrong lately to our intense disappointment. First comes peace, with the realization of never getting across, then comes the rescinding of the order for men to report to an O. T. C., and last comes the uncertainty as to the fate of the S. A. T. C. itself. A number of men say now that they are anxious to get out of the whole thing, but if it were actually disbanded, whether they would feel the same about it no one knows. It's a foregone conclusion that if the S. A. T. C. is abolished, the colleges will stare ruin in the face, as three-fourths of the student bodywould have to leave college and yet work, unless supported entirely by their people. Looking at it from some sides, we're 8. O. L., but growling won't help anyone out. Every man walked into it with his eyes open, so that now it’s up to him to grin and bear it. It's the best thing in the world for a lot of us, both in training, and, no less important, in the realm of finances. It's not often that a man has his way paid through a college year with a “salary” besides, and it's the wise man who lies low and hopes against hope that Uncle Sam will continue to carry him on the government payroll—unless that man is still living off his folks. Let's take what's coming as a matter of course. If we're stuck Saturday morning and have to wash windows or dig trenches, or if we're confined to the campus for five, ten, fifteen, etc., days—well, if we can't force a sickly grin, at least don’t be a grouch and make everyone else share our troubles. Growling is disagreeable to everyone else and gives no one any satisfaction. Joking is the best way to let off steam anyway. We are confident that it has never been “money” that has kept any coach or player at Davidson. It has been that indescribable thing known as “Davidson loyalty.” May it ever be so, as long as Davidson is “Davidson!”

Many a war aims student has wished that old Bismarck could be in Europe now and see—and suffer from—the effects of all his plans. The goodwill and support of every college in the South will go with Georgia Tech as she tackles Pittsburgh, Saturday. Wonder of wonders! Just think! The Charlotte Observer actually gave us three inches of headlines and one inch of write-up on the Carolina game! Someone should paint “19 to 7” by the faded “6 to 0” on the fence at the athletic field.

MR. MOORE LEADS THE SUNDAY “Y” SERVICE

The “Y” service last Sunday night was attended by a good-sized crowd of students in spite of the fact that the weather was bad. The meeting is now being held at 6:30 instead of 6:45. This change of hour was made so that the meeting might not interfere with the regular church service at 7:30. The meeting was opened with the usual twenty-minute song service. Mr. Moore then announced that he is looking for his moving picture machine to come on any train now, as it is already overdue. A piano and a number of chairs have also been shipped to him from Atlanta. As soon as these arrive the Y. M. C. A. amusement room will be moved across the hall of the gymnasium into a larger room. After making these announcements Mr. Moore gave an interesting and highly practical talk, taking as his text John 15:15. “Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth, but I have called you friends.” Speaking of friendship, he said that it is one of the most sacred relations in the world, and that the most pitiful thing in the world is a man with no friends. He showed that Jesus Christ is the greatest man and the finest friend that ever lived and urged everyone to take Him as their friend for three reasons: First, because of the effect on the man who takes him; second, because of its effect on others; and third, because of its effect on his country. Nevertheless, no one can expect to have such a friend without making some sacrifices for him. Mr. Moore pointed out some of the sins which beset all college students, and closed with a plea that we give up these sins as a sacrifice for our friend.

STUDENTS ARE PLEASED WITH TICKET PLAN

The local S. A. T. C. is finding the new plan of getting tickets for their use at Jetton and White Drug Companies and Elliott's a very good one. This plan makes it possible for a man who has no cash available to secure a ticket from Lieutenant Dennard and purchase the things which he needs. The tickets issued are each good for a dollar's worth of trade; so that the tickets are not large enough to use all of a soldier's pay unless he draws too large a number. The student soldiers in purchasing these tickets are not only benefiting themselves by being able to have money available, but are also benefiting themselves by the percentage commission which will be secured through the different stores in establishing the company fund. This cannot be appropriated by any one man; a committee will have charge of the dispersion of the funds. These funds may be used for athletic goods or amusements or anything else the committee decides is needed. It seems that the company fund and arrangement of tickets will prove a beneficial plan for the S. A. T. C.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
Hood Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W.W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.