**The Davidsonian, November 20, 1918**

The above chart is self-explanatory. The names on the left were those of the men on the canvassing teams with
their respective team and company leaders. The whole scheme was Mr. Moore's, our Army Y. M. C. A. secretary, and
the resulting success is well shown by the amounts raised by each company and by the college. The results are
shown to the extreme right, the grand total exceeding $7,000. As returns were brought to headquarters each space was checked
off on the chart. It can well be seen that the estimates were far exceeded, running over into the last
columns. The chart is rather untidy, but it is interesting to note just how results were tabulated during the intense
rivalry last Wednesday night. The makers of the chart were rather flabbergasted as the results began to run all out
of bounds.

"PEACE, PEACE"—WHEN THERE IS NO PEACE

Monday before last, while the S. A. T. C. (soldiers at the college) men were waiting for Bitzer, the bugler,
to sound his imperative notes for assembly, the news of peace was heard. Everybody thought it a "uniform story" until
Private Britt corroborated the report by holding up a Charlotte Observer, across which was printed in letters as big as
our Boy Scouts feel, the word "Peace." Of course, everybody was disappointed because they were deprived of a chance of
putting into practice their training in "bayonet killing," or of seeing how close they could get to a German shell
without getting hit, but when they thought of playing leap-frog over the German trenches they forgot their disappointment and exulted
so vociferously that the exquisitely produced notes from Bitzer’s bugle were hardly audible. Everybody was so anxious to get details
from Private Britt that it was almost impossible for anyone to stand at attention during reveille. Having found out that
the world had peace, nobody here could be at peace for hollering peace. Cleaning up for room inspection wasso subordinated
that had not the inspector been a most considerate human being of the most indulgent nature, the with surprising generosity.
After breakfast (mess) the men began to think over a fit celebration, and rapidly concluded that a holiday was the
most fit, because it fitted the desires better than any other possible celebration. The method used for obtaining the holiday
was a rather infantile procedure. We hollered for it. Nobody gets what they holler for except the baby, and we
are the baby in Uncle Sam’s army, so we got it. Promises of uniforms or real guns to play with
couldn't appease, so they said anything to please the baby. Someone has ascribed the fortune to the yells given in
front of Ruample, and if that be the efficacy, the would-be-Sophs will not be offended by the indignity committed upon
their reputation by such unseemly yells. The first class had already begun when Bitzer sounded a behest to assemble, and
the professors were soon atone, and relieved of the burden of securing the attention of the class. Lieutenant Dennard hurried
with his announcement so that the auditors would proceed to breathe, and when he said that it was to be
a holiday, there was such an ebullition of joy that Liston woke up, Charlie Hall made a rush for cough
drops, Red Smith was animated and grew frantic, the Pre-Med. students deemed it wise to repair to the woods to
escape harmful effects on the ear drums, the bug class tried to head off the fleeing, frightened grasshoppers, and General
Hall was moved to flights of oratory. But it all culminated in a beautiful spirit. About 10 o'clock the companies
marched down to the church for a thanksgiving service. It was a simple service, and everybody in perfect submission gave
thanks and ascribed the glory to the Heavenly Father. It was a spirit that evinced the truest American patriotism, and
brotherhood, and that marks a Christian nation.

RUMORS CONCERNING THE END OF S. A. T. C.

“O boy! we are leaving here soon, Charlotte Observer says S. A. T. C. will be mustered out immediately.” Such
are the exclamations frequently heard on the campus. However, from the present indications these rumors are without foundation. Despite the
fact that the United States is at peace with the world, the S. A. T. C. will in all probability
continue. The government has a contract with the college, lasting until June 21, 1919, and at present shows no intention
of breaking this contract. A communication to the college from the government stated that the courses would be changed some,
but that the course in War Aims would be continued.

Cheer up, fellows, and get some “pep” into your work. You are still working for your country and your country
needs you, or she would let you go. Be loyal in times of peace as well as in times of
war.

Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both.
The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.

Engraved Work a Specialty

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. (Phone 643)

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA Representative
