Vol. V.

Changes Made In Military Training

Battalion Drills Before Breakfast--- New Appointments.

At a meeting of the student body last Monday morning, a motion was passed to have drill before chapel in
the morning instead of in the afternoon. This motion will become effective March 1, and will make it possible to
have baseball practice in the afternoon. Reveille will sound at 6:25 a.m. and drill will begin at 6:45 and continue
until 7:40. Five minutes before supper, the battalion will again assemble and go through the ceremony of retreat, as the
flag is being lowered.

Owing to the decrease in the number of men attending drill, due to withdrawals from college and other circumstances, it
has been deemed wise to reorganize the division of companies. An order has been issued by Captain Lea to the
effect that hereafter there will be only two companies, “A” and “B.” Company “C” under the original organization will become
Company “B,” and Company “B” of the original organization will be equally divided between Companies “A” and “B.” The assignment
of privates is to be announced on the bulletin boards, while below is a list of officers assigned to each
company:

“A” Company— Captain, H. M. Grey; 1st Lieutenant, C. W. Worth; 2nd Lieutenant, G. P. Scott; 1st Sergeant, C. B.
Robson; Sergeants: C. H. Wilson, M. R. Watt, F. G. Lilly, J. W. Bachman, Jr.; Corporals: A. R. Flowers, H.
H. Massey, R. T. Allison, T. W. Clark, S. W. Murphy, A. D. McArn, W. C. Neel, J. C. Cassell,
G. D. Green.

“B” Company—Captain, R. B. Peters; 1st Lieutenant, J. W. McAlister; 2nd Lieutenant, J. H. Miller; 1st Sergeant, G. W. Brown;
Sergeants: R. B. Cunningham, Jr., C. M. Hodgin, H. M. Spann, J. B. Daffin; Corporals: G. S. Crouch, L. B.
Schenck, L. L. McAlister, W. F. Hall, W. L. Roddey, W. T. Allen, B. W. Romefelt, S. J. Fetzer, N.
Y. Pharr.

STUDENT BODY VOTES FOR SERVICE FLAG

Following an action of the student body, every man has been assessed 15 cents for the purchase of a service
flag. This flag, which has been ordered and will arrive sometime within the next week or so, is for the
purpose of honoring the Davidson men who have given themselves to the service of their country in the various branches
of the Army and Navy. The flag is nine by fifteen feet and is made up of a border of
red, with blue stars on a white field. There will be about 340 stars on the flag, representing the 340
men who have gone into the war. All the colleges over the country are thus honoring their men in the
war service in this manner, and it is especially appropriate that Davidson should do so. The flag will probably be
displayed on some conspicuous part of the campus, and when not in use, be kept in the Library.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 20, 1918. No. 19

Baseball Schedule Is Being Made Out

Athletic Council Decides in Favor of Short Season.

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, it was decided to continue baseball but to cut the season short
on account of financial conditions. Manager Daffin had about completed a seven-day trip into Virginia, having already signed several contracts,
which he was forced to give up. He is now working on short trips in this State and South Carolina.
At present, the only definite dates are:

April 12—University of Virginia, at Charlotte,
April 13—V. P. I. at Davidson,
April 20—A. and E., at Gastonia (or Charlotte),
April 24—A. and E., at Raleigh.

It is expected that contracts for games with Trinity, Clemson, North Carolina, and Wake Forest will be signed soon. The
present indications are that we will have a strong team as usual. As a nucleus for the infield, Boswell, McArn,
and R. R. Clarke have returned; King seems the most likely candidate for a receiving position. Hengeveld, one of the
South's best pitchers for the past two seasons, should have splendid assistance on the mound in A. L. Currie, Fowle,
and W. H. Miley, Jr. The outfield in all probability will be selected from Flowers, Fetzer, and several new men
who seem to be good prospects. You can count on “Coach Bill” to produce a winner from this material. Informal
practice began last week, and regular practice will start as soon as the weather permits.

Special Services Being Held in Church

Dr. W. H. Miley is Preaching Twice a Day.

The evangelistic services at the Presbyterian Church, which began on Sunday, will continue both afternoon and night through Friday. Rev.
C. E. Bailey, of Edgefield, S.C., who was to have conducted these services, was prevented from coming by death in
his family. The church has been peculiarly fortunate in securing Dr. W. H. Miley, Superintendent of Evangelism in the Southern
Presbyterian Church, who intended spending this week with his family in Davidson, to fill this post. Dr. Miley is an
entertaining and consecrated evangelist, and great results are anticipated from his meeting.

As the text for his sermon on Sunday morning, Dr. Miley chose II Kings 22:8: “I have found the book
of the law in the house of the Lord.” Dr. Miley drew an analogy between the decadent conditions that prevailed
in Judah and those that exist at present in our own land. The causes for both are these: (1) the
lost altar; (2) the lost Book; (3) the lost closet.

His evening sermon was on Matt. 22, the parable of the laborers and the vineyard. The hours in the parable,
the speaker said, represent the stages in life. The children are called at the first hour. Dr. Miley drew a
large number of apt illustrations, showing vividly the importance of the call and the work to be done.

Professor Currie emphasized in opening his speech that “students of modern law do not study the Bible enough, for it
is the source of modern law.” All of his speech proved this main contention. Professor Currie stated on introducing his
subject that modern law was ordinarily divided into two divisions, criminal and civil. Criminal law he distinguished as that which
called for action of the state or national authorities in prosecution, and civil law he divided into torts and contracts.
He showed how all of these various laws were given in the Bible and, in doing this, he defended the
alleged cruelty of the laws of the Israelites, calling attention to the fact that in their laws only seventeen crimes
were punishable by death, while not so many years ago in England there were one hundred and seventy-eight. During his
discussion of torts, the lights went out and interfered somewhat with the attention of the audience. They listened attentively, however,
to Professor Currie in his explanation of unilateral and bilateral contracts. He showed how the plan of Salvation is simply
a contract, the making of which depends only on the attitude of the individual in believing on Jesus Christ.

PRIZE WINNING BOOK RECEIVED AT LIBRARY

“Brave Belgians,” by Baron C. Buffin, is one of the latest war books to be added to the library. The
author was awarded the Audiffred Prize of the French Academy of Moral and Political Science. The book is an account
of the achievements and sufferings of the Belgian army from the heroic resistance at Liege down through the victorious defense
of the Yser.

The Library is responding to requests from a goodly number of colleges and high schools for aid in debating material
during what might be called the debating season of the year. Its clipping department serves a good purpose in supplying
material which is up-to-date and easy to be mailed.

SENIOR CLASS GIFT HAS BEEN CHOSEN

Manager Angle has, as yet, no new games to announce. Owing to unsettled railroad conditions and to affairs in various
college athletic associations, games are very hard to get. Eastern College cancelled and Clemson was forced to cancel. The Clemson
game may be played later in the season. The team leaves on its Carolina trip next Monday. There is a
game between the Scrubs and the Winston-Salem High here Thursday night, the 21st.

The class gift of the Seniors to the college will consist of two large light standards placed in front of
the new gymnasium. The college will soon begin the work of grading and terracing the slope about the gym. When
this is completed, the Seniors will have placed in front of the gym a flight of concrete steps, with side
bases for the lighting posts. These two posts with their clusters of lights will resemble somewhat those on the “white
way” in cities. The Seniors hope to see their gift erected before the first of May.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB MET WEDNESDAY NIGHT

The Blue Pencil Club met last Wednesday night and discussed the life and works of Victor Hugo. Several of his
books were taken up and considered in detail. Announcement was made of the Sigma Upsilon Prose Fiction Contest. The meeting
was well attended and enjoyed by all present. It was decided to study the works of Ibsen for the next
meeting.

DR. USSHER TO SPEAK HERE

Dr. Ussher, a medical missionary to Persia, will address the student body Thursday morning at 11 o'clock. Dr. Ussher has
been through a good part of the Armenian persecutions in Turkey and will doubtless throw a most interesting light on
the life of those much persecuted people.
