TEDAVL. Vol. VI. Lieut. R.G. Dennard Commands S. A. T. C. Five Army Officers Here to Direct Davidson’s Student Soldiers.

As Davidson College enters a new era of her life, she feels especially fortunate in having Lieut. R.G. Dennard assigned
to her as the S.A.T.C. commandant. Lieutenant Dennard is an officer of wide experience and is already universally well-liked by
every man in the unit. He is originally from Atlanta, GA, and was a student at Georgia Tech. He enlisted
there two and a half years ago in the National Guard, 5th Infantry, but was later transferred to the 2nd
Infantry. With his regiment, he was ordered to the Mexican border in the fall of '16, and from then until
the following summer took part in the campaign of that region. Lieutenant Dennard is the winner of five medals, one
for high shooting and one for being the best drilled man of his regiment.

About a year ago, he was commissioned, and since then it might be interesting to note, he has been transferred
to stations anywhere from Florida to Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas. Among these were one with the 2nd Regiment, Major
General Pershing, and one at the A&M College of Stillwater, OK, where for two and a half months he served
as personnel officer and adjutant. Aiding Lieutenant Dennard are four second lieutenants: Lieut. Chas M. Vander, from U. of California;
Lieut. Alex N. McCormick, from N.C. State; Lieut. Harry C. Doverspike, from Penn State; and Lieut. Peter G. Dwyer, from
Syracuse. The people of Davidson are glad to welcome these officers to their midst.

REID CRANFORD.

Reid Cranford, ex-'19, of the Marine Corps, was severely wounded in action in France, July 19, a telegram received by
his parents, Postmaster and Mrs. W. M. Cranford, of Davidson, stated. Cranford attended Davidson College for two years and was
popular with all. When he enlisted in the Marines, he was working for the American Trust Company. Since the first
notice of his serious condition, he has not been heard from, but all hope that news of his recovery will
arrive any time.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 2, 1918.

Freshman Reception

LIEUT. PRESSLY R. BROWN.

Lieut. Pressly R. Brown, '07, of the Medical Corps, was the first officer from Mecklenburg County to give his life
for the Allied cause in France. He was 34 years of age, having been born in Sharon Township, this county,
in 1884. He is a son of Mrs. J. G. Brown, of Sharon. His wife, who was Miss Donnie Cobb,
is now living in Morganton. Lieutenant Brown practiced medicine for two years at Jackson Springs, and later at Graham, after
attending Davidson College. He entered the service last December and sailed from Camp Merritt, N.J., where he had been stationed,
about January 1 for France.

LECTURES PREPARE STUDENTS FOR SOLDIERS

When Davidson opened her fall term on September 18, to shortly become an Army post, she had not been notified
by the Government what courses would be pursued by the S.A.T.C. students who are in training here. In pursuance of
her new program to effectively prepare men for leadership in the army, the college arranged for the ten days prior
to October 1 a series of lectures by members of the faculty on useful subjects. Dr. McConnell has given in
his several lectures an account of the strategy and battles of the great war. Lieutenant Dennard made several talks on
military subjects. Professor Currie has spoken several times on “Law,” sketching the various branches of law, and showing how they
are portrayed in English and American patriotic literature, and emphasizing particularly the courage displayed by youth. Dr. Harding gave in
two lectures the modern value of Homer's “Iliad” and “Odyssey.” Dr. Sentelle brought out in a lecture a few points
on the psychology of “How to Study.” And, since...French is now invaluable to the soldier who is to go across.
Several periods were given to Professor Garnand for lectures on “Conversational French.”

PREACHERS REORGANIZE.
There was no regular program at the Ministerial Band meeting Sunday evening. The hour was given over to the reorganization
of the band, the fall term officers being elected and matters concerning the meetings discussed. The following officers were elected:
President, A. R. Craig; Vice-President, D. M. Chalmers (elected last spring); Secretary, L. G. Calhoun. The Band will hold its
meeting immediately following supper on Sunday evenings. All men who hope some day to enter the ministry are urged to
attend these meetings.

No. 1 Y. M. C. A.
New Men Are Welcomed and Initiated Into the Davidson Spirit.
The annual Y. M. C. A. reception for the Freshmen was held last Thursday night despite the unusual condition existing
at this time. It is the purpose of this getting together to reawaken the “pep” of the old men and
create college spirit in the new men. A rally was held in Shearer Hall, at which time several short talks
were made in regard to the different phases of college life. The meeting opened with some college yells, led by
D. M. Chalmers, '20, after which Coach Fetzer gave an outline of the prospects of athletics at Davidson for the
coming year. He impressed upon all present the fact that a Davidson team played fair and above board at all
times. He made it very plain that defeat was no disgrace, but that underhand playing was.

Next, the work of the College Y. M. C. A. was outlined for the benefit of the new students so
that they might understand the nature of the work being done by this organization. All new men were urged to
attend the Sunday Bible classes and regular meetings of the “Y.” He also made the announcement that a Hut would
probably be established by the Army “Y” later on.

S. T. McCloy spoke upon the importance of the literary societies and extended an invitation to both old and new
men to join one of the societies. E. A. Woods, '19, spoke on the work of The Davidsonian, and urged
all the new men to endeavor to make the Reporters’ Staff. The last speaker of the evening was Dr. H.
B. Arbuckle, who gave the invitation to the new men to come to see him or any other member of
the faculty about any personal problems they might have. He told the Freshmen that he knew the Sophomore class was
a fine bunch of fellows who would take “a fatherly interest in them.” All those present then adjourned to the
gymnasium, where refreshments were served and all enjoyed an informal hour together, meeting some of the faculty and their wives
and other townspeople.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI PATRONIZE A. U. U.
The American University Union, in Paris, London, and Rome, has been well patronized this past year by Davidson men. Registrations
to June 28, 1918, were as follows: Lt. W. T. Bitzer, '14, 320 F. A. (N. A.), A. P. O.
711, A. E. F.; C. C. Davis, '14, Bat. F., 3rd Art., C. A. C., A. E. F.; Lt. C.
F. Harris, Chief Ordnance Officer, Air Service, A. E. F.; J. N. Hillhouse, '14, Photographic Section, Signal Corps, A. P.
O. 702, A. E. F.; 1st Lt. E. L. Hughes, 118th Inf., A. E. F.; R. W. Miles, '11, Y.
M. C. A., 12 rue d’Aguesseau, Paris; 1st Lt. J. S. Moore, Co. B., 5th N. G. Bn., A. E.
F.; 1st Lt. L. A. Mullen, '16, A. S. S. R. C., A. P. O. 724, A. E. F.; T.
S. Reid, '16, Section 513 U. S. A. A. S., A. E. F.; Sgt. R. B. Walker, ex-’18, Section 513
U. S. A. A. S., A. E. F.

FELLOWS --- Patronize Our ADVERTISERS --- They Make THE DAVIDSONIAN Possible.
