2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
A. Woods, Editor-in-Chief
L. G. A. Byrd, Assignment Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr., Managing Editor
T. Starr, K. G. Lathrop, M. Chalmers, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. R. Alexander, and C. W. Foreman, Assistant Managers
A. L. Turner, Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample, Reporters’ Staff

Class of '19:
R. C. Garth

Class of '20:
E. G. Calhoun, A. I. Wilson, J. C. McCaskill

Class of '21:
W. L. P. Cumming, A. M. Mitchell, I. B. Schenck

Additional reporters for the past two weeks:
W. K. Sullivan, P. Price, J. W. Harrison, H. C. Hamilton, B. S. Hanrahan, W. R. Booth, E. G. Calhoun,
R. R. Methane, M. L. O. Dugger, J. C. Wool, C. G. Lang, R. R. Craig, McDowell Richards

Assistant Managers:
A. L. Turner, Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

Going to count much when men are picked for an officers’ training camp. Drill and P.T. is all you need
bother with. The military training will naturally count most, but the government also lays stress on the academic phase. A
man is tried out in the S.A.T.C. If he shows he can't master the subjects here, it is naturally inferred
that he won't be able to do the heavy studying required of him as an O.T.C. Fellows, we've been warned
by the military authorities and by the faculty that lessons will count, so if any of us are turned down
for an O.T.C., we'll know the reason why. It's true, there have been cases where men, who were poor students,
have easily received their commissions; and also where men, who habitually knock down grades close to the hundred mark, have
been repeatedly turned down; yet that doesn't mean everyone can do the same. It’s neither the “shark” nor the loafer
who gets anywhere; it's the common-sense man who makes the average marks and participates equally in other phases of campus
life. Four men to a room with the schedule as it is, makes it hard to study, but a little
work now and then means a lot in the end.

GOOD LUCK, FELLOWS.

It is with mingled feelings of honest jealousy and good will that we bid our twenty-three prospective officers goodbye. Such
a representative bunch of men cannot well be improved upon, and we will be proud to call them every one
Davidson men, when they have won their bars. Of those of us who are left, some will get O.T.C. appointments;
some will not. But whatever our prospects seem, or however disappointed we may have been after the announcement Monday, it
is no place for anyone to get discouraged. Our time will come. The whole student body joins with us in
wishing every one of you twenty-three men the best of luck; and here's to you.

WATCH YOUR STEP.

Many a fellow says: “What's the use in studying anyway? Lessons aren't going to count much when men are picked
for an officers’ training camp.” Fellows, we know you can do it.

A. R. Gray, B. L. Shield, S. T. McCloy

MANAGEMENT.

V. L. C. Stone, Business Manager

AND YET THE MAIL FOR VANDALS.

The present mail delivery system for the campus is a splendid thing. It is not only convenient, but keeps the
fellows from running down to the post office at the whistle of every train. The box with lettered pigeonholes at
the entrance of Georgia is open to all, and therefore at the mercy of anyone desiring to ransack its contents.
No letters have been missed, but newspapers and periodicals are continually being removed by non-owners. If a man is not
on the spot when the mail is put up, his Observer vanishes, and no one knows a thing about it.
One fellow subscribing to this paper hasn't been able to get his copy for a week. Of course, these papers
and periodicals are not “stolen” in that sense ofthe word, but are removed through thoughtlessness and not returned to the
box. Remember, fellows, in the eyes of the law it is a serious offense, the penalty a fine up in
four figures or a rather uncomfortable penitentiary term. So in addition to considering the fact that a man who subscribes
to a paper would like to see it himself once in a while, let's think of ourselves and take only
our own mail from the box, unless we intend taking it to the owner.

ON TO WINSTON,

Are we going to get passes to Winston Saturday? That remains to be seen. However, we have only two alternatives:
if we get passes, every man in the Davidson S.A.T.C., who is not financially defunct, should be at that field
in Winston and show Carolina a scrap that she won't forget. If we don't get passes, we should give the
team the kind of send-off it used to get two and three years ago, wire encouragement during the game, and
have a rip-roaring shirt tail parade when the good news comes in.

Everyone would greatly appreciate a little more quiet in the barracks during the time when windows and doors must be
kept wide open. "Touch me not" has been the favorite expression since Saturday. Typhoid and small-pox vaccinations, one on each
arm—'nuf said."

The DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1918

WAR IS OVER

It ought not to be necessary to tell some fellows that it is a most serious offense to point a
rifle at anyone. Among the thousand and one rumors roaming about the campus these days, seeing alone is believing. It’s
lack of etiquette not to write on both sides of Y.M.C.A. stationery these days. Some fellows persist in holding up
their hands in class. You're at college now, not a prep school. The United War Work Campaign—are you doing the
square thing by it? S.A.T.C. still stands for some of us: "Stick Around The Campus." Maybe our uniforms will be
Uncle Sam's Christmas presents to us.

No, Generals, it can't be "did." We're soldiers too, now.

"Whoever invests $1,000 in War Savings Stamps helps to win the war to the extent that he sustains a soldier
a year and five months, or he provides full personal equipment for nearly four soldiers, or he transports eight men
to France, or he meets the expenses of over two men in the army for a year. Whoever buys $1,000
in War Savings Stamps provides overseas clothing equipment for ten men or fighting equipment such as rifles, bayonets, cartridges, etc.,
for fifteen men. Whoever invests $1,000 in War Savings Stamps buys eight automatic rifles—small Browning machine guns, or 20,000 rifle
cartridges, or 2,000 hand grenades, or five cavalry horses, one field kitchen, one loaded sixteen-inch shell, eighty three-inch high explosive
shells, one small wireless outfit, or maintain the whole war cost of the country for just two seconds."

Private Buck declares himself a permanent bankrupt. He had but $15 coming to him in October, out of which $32.60
was deducted.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial Hood Norton Next to Post Office DAVIDSON, N.C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D. President

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special Designs and Estimates Furnished
on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson 17
Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.
