THEDAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MAY 1, 1918. Vol. V.

Students Organizing a War Savings Unit, Much Interest Manifested in War Savings Stamps

Dr. Raynall, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Statesville, delivered an interesting address to the student body at the
last period on Thursday. Dr. Raynall was introduced by Dr. Harding, who explained that Dr. Raynall was given his D.D.
by Davidson College, and ended with a pun on Dr. Raynall’s name. The main thought of Dr. Raynall’s lecture was
that this is a time of actions, not of words. His purpose was to organize a War Savings Unit at
Davidson College. Dr. Raynall said that after the war, those who will get the jobs and the girls will be
those with the brass buttons; and if we who are not in actual fighting want to “hold a hand,” we
must show our receipts for money loaned to the Government. He urged the students to give up some of their
summer luxuries and buy War Savings Stamps and to appoint themselves committees to urge others to buy the stamps and
bonds. The Committee of the War Savings Unit of Davidson College was organized as follows: F. I. Fowle, chairman; H.
V. Lally and W. F. Clark, members in Watts; M. A. Siske and G. Lally, members in Georgia; B. W.
Carr and J. R. Woods, members in Rumple; J. W. McAlister and J. A. Vhanies, collectors in North Wing Chambers;
C. W. Worth and I. M. Thomas, collectors in South Wing Chambers; Rob. McClure, member to interview the Faculty. The
committee reported over 230 subscriptions the first night and is anxious to secure a subscription from every student in college.

A REAL SACRIFICE

If only men and women would make the sacrifices to buy War Savings Stamps that children make, our State would
soon go “over the top.” We have been informed that in a school in one of the eastern counties the
boys sell their lunches to make money to buy stamps. When one remembers that a boy has been defined as
an “appetite with pants on,” he appreciates the real sacrifice the boy is making.

“You clever guys,
Who think you're wise,
Young fellows and old fogies,
Be loyal folks,
Cut out the smokes,
Buy Stamps instead of stogies.”
—A. M. Rouse.

FICTION CONTEST CLOSES

Interest has been shown this year in the “Fiction Contest,” which closed last Saturday night. Many and varied have been
the subjects for stories handed in to the committee, so all look forward with interest to the results. The committee
was very fortunate in securing Dr. W. T. Myers, Professor of English at Converse College, to act as judge, and
his decision should be handed in within the next week.

Davidson Wins From N.C. in Eleventh

Pitcher’s Battle is Terminated by King’s Three-Bagger

Davidson won a hard-fought pitchers’ battle between Hengeveld and Waring when George King, star all-round athlete of the Wildcats, slapped
a long three-bagger to right field in the eleventh and scored on Rohn’s wild heave over third in an effort
to head him off. The game was full of thrills and well played, despite errors on the part of both
Gamecocks and Wildcats, which were responsible for most of the scoring. Hengeveld, twirling for the Presbyterians, had everything, and after
the second inning pitched 10 innings with but one hit being made off him. He opened badly in the first,
when Evans struck a clean single to right field to open the inning. Waring sacrificed him to second, Clarke grounded
out Hengeveld to Sutton, and Seaborn’s double and Beall’s single scored Carolina's only runs. Another single was made by Parker
in the second inning, when Hengeveld failed to cover first on an infield tap, and Evans made another single to
right in the fifth, but the necessary pinch blows were not forthcoming to advance the men, and the big pitcher
was safe. Hengeveld struck out nine men and added a double himself. Waring, for the Gamecocks, was hard to find,
but when the Wildcat hits were garnered, they appeared in flocks, and bunched with errors, sewed up the game. Davidson
fought hard to overcome the initial lead of the visitors, but it was not until the third that a run
was made. Burns fouled out to Seaborn to open the inning. Ratchford, playing his first varsity game, drove a sharp
single to right and a moment later stole second standing. Boswell flew out to Evans. Ratchford scored when Clarke bungled
Spann’s grounder to short. Spann stole second but was tagged out when he overran the sack. Davidson's second marker came
in the fifth. After Sutton had struck out, Richards, another varsity man, doubled to deep right center. Burns struck out.
Ratchford was safe when Parker dropped the ball at first, Richards scoring, but Seaborn threw out Ratchford stealing. Spann opened
the eleventh by grounding out, Seaborn to Parker, the catcher taking his grounder in front of the plate. King, who
had gone hitless all day, picked out a fast one and dropped deep along the right field line for a
triple, and on the play in, Rohn presented the game to the locals by heaving the ball over Evans’ head
to the fence, King scoring standing. Both Hengeveld and Waring pitched airtight ball.Big Dutchman having a trifle the better of
the argument after the first frame. The outstanding stars for the visitors were Clarke, who despite a couple of bad
bobbles at short, accepted some mighty hard chances cleanly, and played a hard, scrappy game; Evans and Seaborn were the
leading hitters for Carolina, Evans also accepting seven chances faultlessly. For the Wildcats, the leading luminaries were several new men
who were making their first ap- (Continued on page 6)

Hen his alma mater for several days last week, Miss Bessie Chalmers was on the Seniors Win First Place in
Class Meet Brand Scores Highest Number of Points---Crouch is Second

Miss Dortha Gill, of Statesville, came down for the game Saturday. The Book Lovers’ Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs.
P.B. Currie. Professor Fulton read the paper of the afternoon on “Development in Russia.” Miss Vinson, Mrs. Johnston, Mrs. W.R.
Grew, Miss Elizabeth Cres, Miss Martha Miley, Miss Mary Young, Mrs. J.W. MacConnell, Mr. and Mrs. V.O. Carne, Mr. Stewart,
Captain Lea, and Professor Overcash attended the music festival in Charlotte Saturday. Mrs. F.L. Sloop and children, of Crossmore, spent
the weekend with her brother, Mr. Martin. Mr. and Mrs. John Hill have gone to Philadelphia for a two weeks’
visit to their son, who has recently been drafted into the National Army. W.O. Rankin, Jr. was on the Hill
for a few hours last Sunday. L.P. Hall, Jr., who has been at Annapolis studying for the Naval Academy, has
entered college to await the results of his examinations. J.O. Cobb, ‘12, of Winston-Salem, with R.O. Crawford, Jr. and Forest
Wright, two prospective students from the Twin City, visited the Hill last week. Andrew Brown, ‘17, was a visitor at
Hill for a few hours Saturday. A.L. Edwards, ex-‘21, has left college to become a member of the National Army.

THE STUDENT CONFERENCE

The Southern Student Conference at Blue Ridge will open June 14 and continue for ten days. It is hoped that
Davidson will be well represented at this conference, because it will probably be the best in the history of Blue
Ridge. Two thousand seven hundred and thirty persons took the training at Blue Ridge last year and every one was
well pleased. Among the forty leaders there this summer will be Dr. O. F. Brown, of Vanderbilt University; Dr. W.
M. Poteat, of Furman University; Dr. H. H. Horne, of the University of New York; and Mr. Robert E. Speer,
of New York City.

“Fanny” Hall says he is going to try the plan of betting a girl he can kiss her without touching
her, as outlined in the Magazine. But he says he'll only bet “two-bits,” for it isn’t worth a dollar!

No. 29

News and Happenings of the Week in Town Social and Personal Items About the Town People.

The annual field day exercises were held on Sprunt Field last Monday morning. Great interest in the events was manifested
by the entire student body, each class being represented in practically every event. A total of forty-three men entered the
meet and many hitherto unknown “stars” were discovered. The Senior class scored the highest number of points, thus winning the
meet. The Juniors came next with 45 points, the Fresh took third place, scoring 42 points, and the Sophs brought
up the rear with 10 points. The only record broken was the shot put. Grey broke his former record of
38 feet by hurling the 16-pound ball a distance of 39.02 feet. Brand easily captured first place in the distance
runs and also made the highest individual score, which was 21 points, thus winning the medal. G.S. Crouch had the
second highest score with 18 points. This is the first time in four years that Crouch has failed to make
the highest score. McQueen, for the Sophomores, set the pace in the high jump and pole vault, taking first place
in both events. With a few more like him, the Sophomores would have made a better showing. Prizes were secured
by faculty members and Davidson firms for the winners of first and second places in each event. The events and
the results were as follows:

100 Yard Dash—Thompson (Fresh), first; Crouch (Seniors), second; Grey (Seniors), third. Time, 10 2-5 seconds.
880-yard Run—Brand (Juniors), first; Finley (Seniors), second; Knight (Fresh), third. Time, 2:10.0-5.
High Jump—McQueen (Soph), first; Alexander (Juniors), second; Jones (Juniors), third. Height, 5 feet, 4 inches.
220 Yard Dash—Crouch (Seniors), first; Brice (Fresh), second; Finley (Seniors), third. Time, 24 4-5.
Mile Run—Brand (Juniors), first; Knight (Fresh), second; Clark (Seniors), third. Time, 5:34.35.
Broad Jump—Murray (Fresh), first; Alexander (Junior), second; Grey (Senior), third. Distance, 19.5 feet.
440-Yard Dash—Crouch (Seniors), first; Brand (Juniors), second; Finley (Seniors), third. Time, 55.3-5.
Discus—Grey (Seniors), first; Finley (Seniors), second; Beall (Fresh), third. Distance, 114.3-10 feet.
High Hurdles—Finley (Seniors), first; McAskill (Juniors), second; Brown (Fresh), third. Time, 19 3-5.
Two-Mile Run—Brand (Juniors), first; Knight (Fresh), second; Stone (Juniors), third. Time, 12:16.
Low Hurdles—Crouch (Seniors), first; Brand (Juniors), second; Brown (Fresh), third. Time, 28 1-5.
Shot Put—Grey (Seniors), first; Cox (Fresh), second; Romefelt (Fresh), third. Distance, 39.02 feet.
Pole Vault—McQueen (Sophs), first; Dodenhoff (Fresh), second; Tis- (Continued on page 6)
