Vol. VI.

Hut To Be Located In the Gymnasium
Mr. James Moore Is to Have Charge. Many Plans Made.

Mr. James A. G. Moore, who is to have charge of Y. M. C. A. activities on the campus, has
arrived and is making plans for his work. The paper and envelopes for the writing room have come and a
moving picture machine is expected in a few weeks. A series of entertainments has been planned for this winter, but
exactly what it is to consist of has not been announced yet. The large room to the left as you
enter the gymnasium is to be used as a recreation room. Whenever the men are on duty they can find
something there to interest them. The secretary plans to stay in the building so that he will be easily accessible
at all hours to discuss any problems that may come before the men. Portable benches will be used for the
Y. M. C. A. meetings every Sunday night as well as for the concerts and shows. Bible classes will be
held Sunday mornings as heretofore and every man on the campus is urged to join one of them. No definite
plans have been made in regard to the country Sunday School work, but if possible they will be continued.

Davidson is very fortunate in getting Mr. Moore, as he has had a wide experience in this work and has
put his whole soul into it. He went into the Y. M. C. A. work soon after the declaration of
war and has been in it ever since, coming to us from Camp Wadsworth. He is acquainted with all the
problems of camp life and ready to help any of the men in any way he may be able. Having
received his preparatory training at Trinity College, Connecticut, Mr. Moore entered Brown's University for his theological training, which he completed
only a short time before he received his appointment as Y. M. C. A. secretary. He states that he does
not wish to be regarded as an officer but as a friend to the soldiers.

“A” Com Leading In Basketball League
Much Interest Shown In Inter-Company Contests.

During the past two weeks the Davidson S. A. T. C. has been thrilled by a series of basketball contests
which almost exceeded in magnitude the gladiatorial games of ancient Rome. From each company, a quintet of stars has bravely
fought to uphold the honor of its company. After the dust of battle had subsided it was found that Company
A was leading the procession with a record of three games won and only one lost. Companies B and D
each have lost one game and won another, while Company C has lost the only two it played. The actual
scores are as follows:

Company A 14 Company C 12
Company A 16 Company D 26
Company A 25 Company B 12
Company A 22 Company D 16
Company C 7 Company B 18

The lineup for Company A is as follows:
Right forward .......... Craig (C)
Left forward .......... Finley, A. G.
Center .................. Johnston
Right guard .......... Blue
Left guard .......... Heizer
Substitutes: Monteith, Ormond, A. P., Black, Miller, Knight, W. C.

For Company B there were:
Right forward .......... Roberts (C)
Left forward .......... McKeithan, L. B.
Center .................. Corneilson
Right guard .......... Crouch, W. B.
Left guard .......... White, J. F.
Substitutes: Stone, T. C., Freeman, Hyland, Choate.

Company C:
Right forward .......... Montgomery
Left forward .......... Caddell
Center .................. Johnson
Right guard .......... Gilchrist (M)
Left guard .......... Chalmers
Substitutes: Ramseur, McPheeters, Garth, Cochran, Ormand.

Company D:
Right forward .......... Dugger
Left forward .......... Robson
Center .................. Scott
Right guard .......... Moore
Left guard .......... Johnston
Substitutes: Robson, Scott, Moore.

LT. J. M. DOUGLASS DIES OF PNEUMONIA

News has been received of the recent death of Lieut. James McCants Douglass, '10, at El Paso, Tex. Lieutenant Douglass
spent four years at Davidson, 1906-10. His death was caused by pneumonia following influenza, and occurred October 13. Lieutenant Douglass
was born in Winnsboro, July 14, 1889. He was a member of the law firm of Douglass & Douglass, at
Winnsboro, until he entered the first Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe. He was commissioned as lieutenant and stationed at
Camp Jackson until July 1, when he was ordered to Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Since September he had been attached to
the Sixty-third Regiment, Field Artillery, at El Paso, Texas.

With reference to the article appearing in the editorial columns of The Davidsonian in the last issue regarding the asking
of blessing at mess, the commandant wishes it to be announced that the saying grace or asking a blessing is
not only allowed in the army but is encouraged. He hopes that every one of the mess halls will continue
to observe this devotion.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.
Nov. 2—Washington and Lee (Pending).
Nov. 9—University of S. C.
Nov. 16—University of N. C., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Thanksgiving Day — Clemson, Charlotte, N. C.

W. C. Neel, ’19, is now across. His address is: Headquarters Detachment, 306 Engineers, American Expeditionary Forces, France.W. 1. DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 23, 1918.

“Flu” Has Vanished From Davidson Campus
More Than Hundred Cases In Town. Mills Shut Down.

The Spanish “flu” epidemic, which for almost three weeks has been raging on the campus, is now practically over, and
the few remaining cases are rapidly recovering in the infirmary. In all, there were something over 200 cases of the
“flu,” of whom not more than a score developed into pneumonia. The one sad and regrettable outcome of the epidemic
was the death of Dan Currie, the only fatality resulting from pneumonia, and the whole student body joins with his
people in mourning his loss.

To meet the emergency, South Wing Chambers was rapidly converted into an impromptu infirmary. Fortunately, several nurses could be secured,
who with the aid of the local Red Cross, the faculty members, and the ladies of the town, ably and
successfully handled the situation. The town of Davidson certainly showed its worth during this crisis in the college, and now
that the community is so hard hit with the disease, it is time the college should show its appreciation by
helping out in any way possible.

The nurses had their hands full while combating the disease among the students, and it was due to the splendid
support rendered by the faculty members and town ladies that so few of the cases proved to be serious. Every
man in the student body realizes the sacrifices and dangers undergone by these good people and sincerely appreciates them every
one. And it is right that the folks back home should know that they, at the risk of contracting the
disease themselves, averted many a case of pneumonia and without doubt saved many a life. They are too many to
be mentioned individually, but everyone knows who they are, and the appreciation and respect of the entire student body is
accorded everyone. Every Davidson man realizes that he has the opportunity of living in as fine a college community and
with as fine a faculty as any in the country, and he is proud of it.

Through Sunday, over 100 cases had been reported in the town, with a number of pneumonia cases. It was a
serious question combating the disease in town, as patients could not be brought to a central hospital, but had to
be treated in their separate homes. Last Wednesday evening in the Civic League hall, a citizens’ meeting was held, presided
over by Mayor Sloan, in which the epidemic situation was reviewed and several committees were appointed with which the Red
Cross should co-operate in an effort to see that there should be no neglect of the sick who are unable
to have proper nursing, either for financial or other reasons, more especially because they are unable to find a nurse
where most of the family is down with the disease.

Both of the cotton mills were silent for several days as the electric power was not being furnished, but the
Linden had to shut down the day before on account of the absence of sick operatives.

Rev. W. H. Dubose, '04, of San Antonio, Tex., has taken up work in Tucson, Arizona.

Hon. W. J. Bryan Visits Davidson Campus
Forceful Address Made Before S. A. T. C. and Townspeople.

Great excitement was caused in the companies on Saturday morning, October 12, as the news spread about that Hon. William
Jennings Bryan was expected on the campus any moment. The companies were in the act of forming for the regular
Saturday morning inspection when a Packard rolled slowly around the semicircle past Chambers and drew up in front of the
Library. Mr. Bryan, accompanied by Colonel Macomb, commanding officer of Camp Greene, and Mayor McNinch, of Charlotte, alighted and looked
around the campus for a short time.

About 9:30 the companies were assembled and marched to the flagpole, where they formed in a semicircle. Dr. Martin spoke
briefly, congratulating the student soldiers in having such distinguished guests on the campus, and with words appropriate introduced Mr. Bryan.
The well-known statesman then spoke for ten or fifteen minutes to the men. He said that he had always wanted
to make a visit to Davidson, having heard a good deal about her reputation. He had always been interested in
young people and especially in young men, as he had worked a good deal among them and understood them better.
He also stated that he watched the progress of educational institutions, especially Christian colleges, with the deepest of interest. He
then proceeded to give the student soldiers much valuable advice, showing them what in the end were the things in
life which most counted. Toward the end of his talk, he made the striking statement that most men sink into
unknown graves while some few forget themselves into immortality. Mr. Bryan concluded his address by making the promise that sometime
he would return to Davidson when he had longer to stay. He was loudly applauded, having made a deep impression
on the men of the college.

Colonel Macomb then spoke a few words, expressing his interest in the progress the local S. A. T. C. was
making here at Davidson. Mayor McNinch cordially offered the support of Charlotte.

(Continued on page 6)
