PARTS OF ANNUAL SENT TO PUBLISHERS

The work on the Annual is being rapidly rounded into form. All of the zinc plates, a good proportion of the literary work, and some of the halftones have already been sent off to the hands of the engraver and printer, and the remainder will be sent as soon as it is available. The staff wishes to announce that a large proportion of the students have handed in drawings, snapshots, and literary material, and the aim shall be to make it as representative as possible of the entire student body. The staff assures all that the Annual will arrive on time. The endeavor has been to make the Annual unique and distinctive this year, and any suggestion by any of the students will be greatly appreciated. Considerable work has been put on the athletic, fraternity, and humorous sections of the book, and it is hoped that these sections will be well received. The staff wishes to take this opportunity to thank those who have spent time and trouble in getting in the material, and hopes that all will continue to support their publication as they have in the past. Because of strained conditions this year in all of our colleges, this support is particularly needed and appreciated.

AMERICAN COLLEGE MEN AND THE WAR

“I am not sorry, but proud that 90 per cent of Harvard University has gone into the war.” President Lowell expressed this feeling last night in speaking of Harvard’s depleted fall registration. His sentiment is no doubt shared by many other college presidents all over the country. The loss of over half of the two upper classes at Yale, Princeton, and Harvard is duplicated in many colleges. The professional and graduate schools other than engineering show even heavier losses. The Harvard Law School and Graduate School of Business Administration register only 32 per cent and 34 per cent respectively of their normal numbers. On the other hand, there is a larger attendance at many military, engineering, and medical schools, as illustrated in an increase of 8 per cent in the Harvard Medical School.

The large number of Freshmen entering the colleges of all sections shows the willingness of men under 21 to be drafted to go to college in accordance with President Wilson’s expressed wish in his letter of July 20th to the Secretary of the Interior. The often repeated criticism that college men have little sense of responsibility has been given the lie in the facts shown by the present war. Of the 62,000 men in the officers’ training camps held this summer, a large percentage was composed of college men. Of the men at Fort Benjamin Harrison training to become officers, 80 per cent were from the colleges. At Williams College, 95 per cent of the student body was in military training within two weeks after war was declared. At one State University, 1,950 men out of 3,600 left for service before commencement, at another 1,000 out of 1,800 left, and in yet another only 100 men remained out of 580.

The colleges have also given the best brains of the faculty to the use of the nation. President Garfield, of Williams, heads the new Department of Fuel Administration, while hundreds of professors are engaged in the work of various boards which are conserving our national resources. Much physical equipment of many institutions is taken over by Uncle Sam. Wofford College turned over its dormitories to 200 Plattsburg officers pending completion of the Spartanburg camp. Harvard has given to 1,500 naval radio students the exclusive use of six buildings, including the gymnasium and the largest dining hall, and is soon to start another government school—this time for ensigns. The War Department ordered 550 picked men from the officers’ training camps of the country to report to Cambridge to be instructed by the French officers whom Harvard brought over last spring to teach its own students. This “Iron Battalion” went from Harvard to pass on to others the methods of French warfare learned at Cambridge. The important “ground school” for aviators

The DAVIDSONIAN February 6, 1918At Princeton, several buildings and Brockow athletic field have been taken possession of. Athletics of American colleges have been made subservient to athletics of the American army and navy. Driver, the former star halfback at the University of Virginia, is Director of Sports at Camp Jackson, South Carolina. Football Coach Bender, of the University of Tennessee, is making physically fit the soldiers at Greenville, S.C. Walter Camp, Jr. of Yale, directs athletics at Camp Hancock, Ga. Eddie Mahan, captain of Harvard’s champion football team of 1915, is in charge of sports for the sailors at Philadelphia. It was at Princeton that former coaches gathered last month at the meeting of Directors of Camp and Cantonment Athletics of the country. Every athlete who had won his letter at Columbia has enlisted in some form of government service. In Canada and in many colleges of the States, intercollegiate competition has given way to interclass and interdepartment contests. This allowed the vast amount of energy and money formerly devoted to the “big” games, such as attracted 82,000 spectators last fall to the Yale Bowl, to be directed to many forms of war activities. It also enables many more individuals than formerly to develop themselves as athletes and helps make “the real contribution to the national defense” which President Wilson says will justify sports in wartime. Hundreds of college men have gone into the Army Y.M.C.A., ambulance, and Red Cross work. Cornell's ambulance corps of 32 men were the first Americans to get into active service in France after we entered the war. The Intercollegiate Intelligence Bureau at Washington is a voluntary organization of college men which utilizes the information secured through the recent census taken by 200 different colleges. This plan enables various government departments to know who are the available picked college men of the country who are trained for various kinds of special service. Already 2,500 men have been located for government work through the agency of this Bureau. There are 41 Southern colleges actively cooperating with the Bureau. The service of college men of the United States promises to be worthy of the example set by the great universities of England, Canada, and France. The world will see that American college men are ready to make the supreme sacrifice, and that those who are to do their bit at home will be mindful of their obligation to those who have gone. The words of Henry W. Grady at the University of Virginia in 1889 are today invested with new meaning. This prophet of the New South spoke for the nation when he said, “The university is the training camp of the future; the scholar the champion of the coming years. Waterloo was won at Oxford. Sedan at Berlin. Napoleon overran Europe with drum tap and bivouac. The next Napoleon shall form his battalions at the tap of the schoolhouse bell and his captains shall come with cap and gown.” The performance of a duty is never a useless office, though we may not see the consequences, or they may be quite different from what we expected or calculated on.

E. E. Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.
Young Men’s Clothing, Hats, Furnishings, and Shoes.
Knapp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts.
Hanan, Florsheim, and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

CANDIES — “OUR LIPS OVER” at The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG Co.

American Trust Company
Charlotte, N.C.
ALL FORMS OF BANKING
Fire, Health, and Accidental Insurance
Acts as Executor, Guardian, and Trustee
Capital and Undivided Profits $7,000,000

See us for your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candies, Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, The Florist. Have you tried our drinks? Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
PHONES 441-2 203
702 S. N. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents

Good, Fresh Candies, Cakes, Crackers, Fruits
Special attention given to “FEEDS.”
L. A. Elliott
Something good to eat ALL the time.