2 The DAVIDSONIAN, March 13, 1918

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS.

every student with all the potent college spirit that he possesses. Some of this potential should be transformed into kinetic.
If a student does not have a good reason other than “studying” he should be branded as a “stick” and
is

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

Les jeunes membres du Cercle Francais se montrent aussi fideles qu’ambitieux. Seulement le professeur regrette qu’ils ont profite vendredi de
l'infame loi des cinq minutes pour se sauver au moment ou il paraissait pour leur offrir le privilege d’apprendre la
belle langue dont ils ont parle avec une telle enthousiasme. Cette loi (comme egalement celle du spectacle du chemise de
nuit) n’est pas adaptee aux sentiments et aux besoins de notre temps, et devrait etre abandonnee, avec les autres reliques
d'une civilisation depuis longtemps passee. Mais comment changer le monde? Les etudiants, sacrifieront-ils jamais leur droit sacre de “hazing” les
professeurs? Voici quelques faits importants et interessants dont on a fait mention pendant la derniere reunion du Cercle:

EDITORIAL BOARD.
R. H. Stone.......... Editor-in-Chief
E. G. Lilly......... Managing Editor
E. A. Woods...... Assignment Editor
J. A. Thames......... Alumni Editor
L. M. Currie.......-. Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
L. M. Thomas, Jr.
R. E. McClure
A. P. Saunders
J. B. Woods, Jr.
J. B. Daffin
J. R. Woods

MANAGEMENT.
O. J. Thies, Jr...... Business Manager
O. M. A. Siske
T. C. Stone....... Assistant Managers
R. D. Hall

Statesville, North Carolina
The College

When “Amo” gets a good program for a college spirit meeting and sends someone to get you from White’s and
Jetton’s you ought to come with a zest and help to make this the most wonderful baseball season that Davidson
has yet seen. Why not make it Best P. P.?

WAR’S EFFECT ON LITERATURE.

No one in this age ever saw such an output of books. If a Rip Van Winkle could awake from
a lethargy and look at the book reviews and announcements he would know that war had something to do with
the change, even though he knew nothing of shell-torn Europe. Should he read these books he would find resumes of
trench warfare and of marvelous mobilizations and conditions, but he would not find a change in thought. So then we
can say that the war has greatly changed the output, but the real impress is not generally perceptible. The article
in the March Book News Monthly, by Thomas Tiplady, “After Winter—Spring,” presents a condiment of war. This is really a
change of thinking, but this is an extraordinary case. The New York Times Book Review says: A change in literature
is the reflection of a change in national thought, an intellectual or social development that brings us into new relationships
with the outside world. It is not a matter of theme, but of spirit, of treatment. Literatures, or even

PRINTERS
If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY
AT THE COMMISSARY
Are Our Representatives at the College

Reporters’ STAFF.
Class of '18—S. T. McCloy, D. M. Orgain.
Class of '19—W. T. Dunlap, Jr., W. M. Currie.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, D. W. Roberts, D. M. Chalmers, Wm. Love, G. A. Byrd, Jr., H. C. Hamilton.

Additional reporters for this issue are: D. L. Mahood, A. L. Wilson, J. M. Walton, J. R. Boulware, Jr., and
B. W. Romefelt.

M. Burgess: La France a presque la meme superficie que l’Allemagne. Elle est un peu plus grande que l’Espagne, et
se vante d’une superficie deux fois celle des Iles Britanniques. Elle est une nation colonisatrice, et administre un empire colonial
vingt fois plus grand qu’elle-meme. Apres l’Angleterre, La France est la plus importante nation colonisatrice.

M. Dishongh: La Langue Anglaise contient beaucoup de mots empruntes au francais. Cela s’explique en partie par le fait que
les Normands conquirent l’Angleterre en 1066, et plus specialement par le fait que la France exerça une grande influence sur
toute l’Europe au Moyen Age.

M. Elliott: Depuis beaucoup de siecles la langue francaise a ete tres

BOOKS. STATIONARY. NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE. N. C.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice, Davidson, N.C.

usitee dans la plupart des nations civilisees du monde. Pourtant la langue n’est pas, a proprement parler, un produit francais,
mais elle est une des charmantes filles de la langue latine. Pendant 400 ans apres les campagnes de Jules Cesar
la France etait une province romaine. Les sons harmonieux et liquides de la langue des francais charment les yeux. (“Yeux”
signifie “eyes.” On peut demander a M. Elliott quel est l'effet sur les oreilles). Il est regrettable, pourtant, que les
francais d’aujourd’hui se montrentsi extravagants en réclamant pour leur langue une importance prépondérante dans le monde. Nous admettons volontiers que,
comme langue, il n'y en a pas de meilleure, et que peut-être il n'y en a pas d'autre qui soit
si claire, si belle, et si harmonieuse. Mais nous pensons que les Français devraient se souvenir que la société humaine
a fait beaucoup de progrès depuis le 17ème siècle, et que les positions relatives des grandes langues du monde peuvent
être affectées par les conditions changeantes. Mais l’espace nous manque pour discuter ces choses d’une manière suffisante. Les changements dans
les littératures ne se font pas en un jour, à peine en une génération. Cette impression est sûre de venir
et quand elle le fera, elle reflétera inévitablement une Amérique aux intérêts plus larges, aux sympathies plus profondes, que nous
n'avons jamais connues. Non seulement la production a été affectée et il y a eu un présage du véritable progrès,
mais elle a ajouté de nombreux nouveaux mots à notre vocabulaire. Chaque journal et surtout les journaux scientifiques utilisent des
mots que nous n'avions jamais entendus il y a cinq ans. Le style d'écriture a également été affecté. Il y
a un nouveau livre de critique shakespearienne dont le premier chapitre commence dans un style intensément “sang et tonnerre”. Mais
avec tous ces changements, la littérature n'interprète pas la nature humaine différemment de l'interprétation d'il y a une décennie. Mais
quand ce changement viendra, nous aurons une veine beaucoup plus riche comme source de notre littérature tant aimée.

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
J. A. THAMES, . . . Agent

What has become of the idea of having a Camp Greene leader to teach us war songs?

Pp. PLP, This caption stands for Poor Presbyterian Pep. What has become of the once famous yet famous old line
spirit? Something has happened to it. Surely it is just dormant and awaiting a most wonderful baseball season in which
we are to carry off the laurels. But this old spirit helps to put these trophies around the forehead of
the team and Coach Bill. Coach Fetzer says the Davidson student body never could yell, and Coach is next to
infallible. We know that this is so, but let’s change the old regime and show that we can yell and
manifest as much pep as anyone ever heard from a student body ten times our size. This will take a
good deal more of cooperation than Cheer Leader Love got last Fall. Were you at the rally meeting just before
the Clemson game? Didn't Love tell the slackers something? No, not the slackers, for they were not there, but he
said it about them. They were called “Dormant drones and fossils.” There is not even the pep that was manifested
when the present Seniors were called “Fresh.” When a meeting was called three-fourths of the student body would be there
in a hilarious mood. Old Shearer Hall resounded with pep. The Orchestra would be there with the goods. Some of
the faculty were present. Yells, songs, pep, everything was there in shining array which was a requisite for an ideal
meeting. It is somewhat distressing to those of us who know the past. But this can be restored. We should
soon begin these rallies and they should be attended by everyone.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

CHANGE IN SENIOR ENGLISH.
There has come about a very profitable change in the regular course planned for Senior English. Dr. Fulton is going
to study with his class “Political Idealism in English Literature,” which is the phrase by which he expresses the new
addition. First, Moore's Utopia will be studied, followed by Shelly’s Prometheus Unbound, and probably other immortals presaging ideal states and
voicing the cause of democracy. The class was delighted when Dr. Fulton announced this subject of study, which will begin
immediately.

HONOR ROLL OF THE LOCAL GRADED SCHOOL
The: PIEDMONT : THEATRE : NORTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
The local graded school has finished another month of work and announces the names of sixteen honor roll pupils.
Second Grade—Jane Leighton Richards.
Third Grade—Mary Grace Brown, Charles Torrence and William Howard Jetton.
Fifth Grade—Richard Grey, Sarah Barnette and Thomas Lothery.
Sixth Grade—Sophie Richards, Jean Martin.
Seventh Grade—Lera Hobbs, Loreta Mooney, Nancy Grey.
Ninth Grade—Anne Lois Barnette.
Tenth Grade—Grace James, Winnie Campbell and Madge Elliott.

Complete change of program twice a week.
Three Shows Daily
First Class Vaudeville

Dr. T. J. Withers wishes to make acknowledgment of and to express his great appreciation of the marked courtesies and
kindnesses shown him and his family in the recent sickness and death of his wife. Friends of Dr. and Mrs.
J. M. Douglas will doubtless be glad to know that their little son has had his tonsils successfully removed and
is rapidly recovering.

OUR PATRONAGE SOLICITED
Patronize Our Advertisers. Mention The Davidsonian.
