2 The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
F. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
J. R. Boulware, Jr... Managing Editor
G. A. Byrd........ Assignment Editor

THE STAFF.
E. G. Lilly
A. R. Craig
D. M. Chalmers
B. E. Shields
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
S. T. McCloy

MANAGEMENT.
Business Manager
Circulation Manager
T. C. Stone
E. A. Turner
T. R. Alexander... Assistant Manager
J. K. Price....... Assistant Manager
G. D. Sample...... Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
R. C. Garth, A. L. Wilson, J. C. McCaskill, W. P. Cumming, L. B. Schenck, A. M. Mitchell, L. G.
Calhoun, J. W. Harrison, Extra Reporters for This Issue: O. M. Dugger, Jr., S. P. Price, R. McIlwaine, W. R.
Booth, C. G. Long, McDowell Richards, J. K. Price.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL
Owing to various reasons this will be the last issue of the Davidsonian till after Christmas. The staff would gladly
get out another issue, provided they were excused from exams; but the faculty fails to look at it from the
same point of view, so being human, we will have to undergo the ordeal also. The staff wishes the best
of luck to every man during the exams week after next, and hopes everyone will get through safely. We also
wish a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to every one of our readers. May you have the
happiest vacation ever.

It's hard to lose a game, especially a Thanksgiving game, but we believe Davidson can take a defeat with as
good a spirit as the next one. Our abbreviated season of four games has done credit to the institution, as
the following scores show:
Davidson, 20; W. and L., 0.
Davidson, 14; Carolina, 7.
Davidson, 0; Remounters, 0.
Davidson, 0; Clemson, 7.
Totals: Davidson, 34; Opponents, 14.

Prospects are always uncertain, so far ahead, but we are confident that the fall of 1919 will prove to be
one of Davidson's best. We take this opportunity to express the greetings of the student body to “Bob” Miles, our
new “Y” secretary. We're behind you, Mr. Miles, and hope your stay will be a pleasant one.

A REGULAR BUSINESS COURSE.
Outsiders have inquired as to whether Davidson has any elementary business course, such as bookkeeping or accounting, and have commented
upon the fact that such a course is invaluable to a young fellow on leaving college. The present wartime accounting
course has proved to be as popular as any on the Hill, and is a subject which every young man
should have some knowledge of. We strongly advocate that such a course should be inserted into the regular college curriculum.
It is a question whether it is wise to leave all such practical subjects to the business schools, as the
average college man never attends such institutions. An elementary course in accounting will not necessarily make Davidson less a literary
college, and the advantages obtained from such a valuable subject more than offset the departure from the general run of
literary subjects. Parents have wanted such a course taught as well as the students. If a man is taught how
to take care of his property, he has been taught something worthwhile. We believe the whole student body joins with
us in requesting this, and we hope the authorities will consider seriously the continuing of accounting in the regular curriculum.

THE NEAR FUTURE.
It seems to be a custom in the army never to know what may turn up in the immediate future.
That has certainly been our fix for the past two months. But through all the uncertainty no one can deny
that the S. A. T. C. has on the whole been of immense value not only to the students, but
to the college itself. During these last days and those immediately following the mustering out, there will be a natural
tendency toward demoralization and reaction, which will prove a menace to every college in the country unless the old men
take some definite stand for law and order. Wednesday the proposition was put squarely before the upper classes, and it
rests primarily with them as to what will be the moral status of the student body this spring.

A man is his own keeper, to a certain extent, physically, mentally, and morally, but when he flies off at
a tangent at the raising of every restriction, he shows a pitiful lack of common sense, which cannot help but
result in regrets. Fellows, for the love you have for old Davidson, look at the situation in an open state
of mind and give it your honest thought. We know if this is done that nothing will go wrong in
the student body this year.

As to returning to college in the spring, all we ask is that every man look at it in a
common-sense point of view. We don't appeal to anyone to come to college so as to be a leader of
men. A college education may help a man to be such, but will not necessarily make him one, as many
of the qualities of leadership are inborn. This old world would be in a bad way if it had to
depend on some college graduates for leadership. But we appeal to your common sense. Just a lookwill show that any
man in any profession today without a college education is severely handicapped. As someone has said, a greater premium is
placed upon education now than at any time in the country’s history. We possibly can't realize it now, but have
you ever thought why it is that fathers without much education will work themselves to death to send their boys
to college? We wish every man would read the article appearing in the Forum by Dr. Smith of W. and
L. Fellows, it's worth your while to think this all over carefully.

NOTICE.
Your subscriptions to the United War Work Fund will be received by Mr. Jackson in his office during the specified
hour. Do your best.

A Yankee paper gets this one off on the Goober State: “A soldier from the ‘Cracker’ section of Georgia, after
seeing the first movie in a Y. M. C. A. hut, remarked to a friend, ‘Mighty fine picture; but I
was so blamed far back I couldn't hear a word they said!’”—Ex.

A certain British soldier's letter runs thus: “I am sorry I cannot tell you where I am, because I am
not allowed to say. But I venture to state that I am not where I was, but where I was
before I left here to go where I have just come from.”—Punch.

OF DR. RICHARDS.
On Thanksgiving evening a very pleasant, informal reception was given in the Library building by the Davidson congregation, in honor
of Dr. Richards’ tenth anniversary with the Davidson church and in recognition of his useful service to the community in
this ten years’ interim. Preparations for the reception were carried out in secrecy, and the whole occasion was made a
pleasant surprise for Dr. Richards. A purse of $200 in gold, with an increase in salary, was presented to him
late Thanksgiving afternoon. At the same time the news of the reception was “broken” to him. The reception was marked
by a large attendance. The Library had been beautifully decorated within by Miss Shaw with the national colors and cut
flowers, beautiful chrysanthemums, roses, and narcissus. Upon entering one passed down the receiving line of members of the Church Session
and their wives. After greetings were passed by all, Dr. Martin, master of ceremonies, took charge. An interesting program of
talks, lasting over an hour, followed. Dr. Martin first read a letter from Dr. Shearer, who was unable to be
present. Mr. Knox, senior member of the Session, gave a prolonged narration of Dr. Richards’ work as pastor of the
Davidson Church. He was followed by Dr. Harding, who told of Dr. Richards’ successful preaching. Dr. Grey then read a
number of statistics, describing the marked increase in contributions and additions to the church under Dr. Richards’ pastorate. “There have
been 296 additions, through letter and profession, in this period of ten years; but, owing to Davidson's unstable population, the
present membership does not show this great increase. In the contributions also there has been a like rise. Last on
the program of the evening was a talk by Mr. Jackson on the growth of the Sunday school. After the
speeches the reception assumed the form of a social. Refreshments of ice cream and cake made by the good ladies
of the congregation were served. The occasion was greatly enjoyed by all present, and has afforded a new stimulus to
the congregation.

A LETTER FROM CAPT. J. C. HARPER.
Washington and Lee University, Students Army Training Corps, Lexington, Va., Dec. 22, 1918.

Editor of the Davidsonian, Davidson, N.C.

Dear Sir:
In the latest number of the Davidsonian just received, I notice on page three a few lines entitled ‘When Kaiser
Bill Receives,’ the subject matter of which is to the effect that when General Pershing gets to Berlin, his first
remark will be, ‘Bill, we are here.’ We up here have a different opinion. Our idea is that he will
say, ‘Now we are here, present your Bill.’

Best wishes and good luck to all at Davidson and our heartiest congratulations on this year's football record. I would
have deserted the army and gone to Winston to have seen the game. I never missed a single Davidson-Carolina football
game from the time I was a freshman until the war took such a claim on my time, that my
little excursions were limited.

Loyally yours,
James C. Harper, ‘15.

CIVIC CLUB BAZAAR IS POSTPONED
The committee thought it wise to hold the Bazaar on the 10th, instead of on the 3rd, as formerly noted.
Everybody come.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
Hood Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary...
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

HAVE YOU PAID YOUR U. W. W. FUND SUBSCRIPTION?
