2 No The Davidsonian Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers...... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts....... Assignment Editor
R. E. McClure....... Alumni Editor
L. C. McAskill....... Athletic Editor

THE STAFF.
E. G. Lilly
Emory Flinn
W. M. Currie
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
William Love

MANAGEMENT.
M. A. Siske......... Business Manager
T. C. Stone......... Circulation Manager
G. D. Sample
C. J. Matthews...... Assistant Managers
A. D. McArn

REPORTERS’ STAFF.
Class of ’19—Q. N. Huneycutt.
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, G. A. Byrd, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Wilson.
Class of ’21—W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., B. W. Romefelt, A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck.

Additional reporters for this issue are: D. L. Mahood, J. R. Walker, R. L. Liston, D. M. Orgain, C. Howell,
J. A. Thames, J. W. Clark, J. E. Sanders, and E. N. Booker.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

MOTHER'S DAY.
Next Sunday, May 12, is Mother's Day. Roses—white and red—will be available in the parlor of the Library after 10
o'clock. Be sure and come early so as to get a good flower before church. The following poem was written
by a member of the class of '17, and may apply to everyone:

I wear a rose on Mother’s Day,
And she seems near, tho far away.
For in its spotlessness I see
My mother’s matchless purity.
And all its fragrance, soft and rare,
My mother’s sweetness doth declare.
The rose’s beauty then unfold,
And half my mother’s is not told.
I wear the rose above my heart,
For mother owns of me that part.

SUMMER WORK.
The opportunities for landing jobs are probably as good this year as they have been for a long time. The
question is, what kind of work to do? Are we going to look for work that will be for our
own interests alone, or are we going to realize that the country is up against the biggest job she has
ever faced, and that she needs help—and needs it bad. The papers have been blazing with advertisements for men, to
work in shipyards, cantonment construction and other camps, and on the farms. Ships, arms, food and men cannot be received
too fast in France, and it’s up to every able-bodied citizen to do all in his power to help. The
soldier hasn’t the only job to lick the Kaiser. The farm is the essential source of national endurance, and is
in critical need of men to work it. Good money is offered workers in shipyard and camps, a man thus
being able to please his country and pocketbook at the same time. It should not only be the privilege but
the duty of every college man to do some kind of work this summer that will help the Allies toward
victory.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 8, 1918

STAY FOR COMMENCEMENT.
Commencement this year, in reaction from the slim and much-talked-of occasion of last year, promises to be record-breaking, both in
number of visitors and variety of attractions. Patriotism does not require a short, quiet and meagre affair. The many visitors
will be cordially invited and heartily welcomed to the campus, and it’s up to more of the students to stay
over. The underclassmen owe it to the Senior class and to themselves. The Juniors should stay and find out how
to do it next year, as many of them have never seen a college commencement. Everyone will enjoy it, and
the more students that stay over, the better will be the occasion. Help make this year’s commencement a big success.

408 STARS.
According to confirmed statistics in the office, Davidson now has 408 men in direct military service. And we can well
be proud of it. A small army in itself, thirty-five percent again larger than the current student body, and twenty
percent of the living Davidson men. Reports show a little over four hundred, but our men in the camps claim
that 450 is not exceeding a safe estimate. This brings home the fact that all names of Davidson men in
service have not been sent in. For the sake of preserving the history of Davidson and Davidson men, everyone is
urged, whether alumni, students, or any who have an interest for the college, to send in to the college authorities
or THE DAVIDSONIAN any names of men they may know to be in the service, but not recorded on the
Honor Roll. Help us keep the service flag on page five up to date. The big flag hanging in front
of Chambers is sadly behind in the number of stars. The correct number will fill this lag—and then some. It
is sobering to think about it, but one blue star now on the flag should be replaced by a gold
one; and if only we could feel assured that no others will have to be changed to gold! Steps should
betaken before the year is up by the proper persons to bring the flag up to date, and to see
to the purchasing of another flag (if necessary) to supplement this one.

SENIOR'S CREDITS.

Several things this year with regard to certain Seniors’ journey toward their diplomas call for adjustment. A man, hoping to
win his degree on May 29, 1918, finds to his dismay in the middle of April that he still has
some entrance requirements to work off, or that he lacks a ticket necessary for graduation. He hurriedly tries to arrange
matters, finally “jacking” off the missing work in two or three weeks, or less, consequently getting nothing out of it
whatever. Of course, it is true that every man should keep track of his work during all four years, and
should catch up, if behind; however, forgetfulness is a prime characteristic of a student, and a little jogging of memory
now and then never comes amiss. It has been suggested and discussed by a number of Seniors that the college
authorities send to each man at the end of his Junior year a statement of his credits, and also requirements
for the completion of his college course. If this is done, a man may know just what he has done,
what tickets he must elect the following year, and what back work he must make up, in order comfortably to
win a coveted diploma.

DEBATING AT DAVIDSON.

A few statistics concerning the history of intercollegiate debating at Davidson might be of interest. For ten years now Davidson
has been in the forensic arena, from which she emerges this spring with a total of twelve victories and six
defeats. Subjects have covered widely varying topics: municipal, national and international; political and economic. The first intercollegiate debate was held
in 1909 and to the present date either one or two have been held each year. Davidson has defeated Wake
Forest three times, losing to them twice. Wofford has been defeated twice, and South Carolina once, two having been lost
to the latter. In a series with Emory, Davidson last year won the third and last contest. Davidson has split
even with Roanoke; and has defeated once, Clemson, Erskine, and Lafayette. A percentage of .666 is pretty fine, and considering
the records Davidson debaters have made, there is a bright prospect of our getting into a Debating League, which will
ensure two and maybe three good debates every year. Intercollegiate debating at Davidson has a bright future indeed.

TILL WE MEET.

As this will be the last issue for the collegiate year, The Davidsonian wishes to take this opportunity to wish
“bon voyage” to everyone for the summer. To you Davidson men in the Army and Navy, we wish a great
summer; and before college opens next fall many of us now in the student body will be with you; possibly
all—who can tell what the next few months will bring forth? A “bon voyage” will be a reality to many,
and remember: if it means anything to you, we're watching you and looking to you to do things now for
more than Davidson. Our student body is gradually thinning out, but not because of any decline in the college itself.
As in 1861, so now, the boys are leaving “to fight for what they know to be right;” and as
after the Civil War, Davidson made great forward strides, so after this present struggle is all over, our college will
have a brilliant future. To the students we would wish the best of luck in their exams looming ahead, and
the pleasantest of summers. And to the Seniors, who are beginning to realize what it is to leave the college
they have learned to care for in the past four years, we would say good-bye, and here’s to you, as
you go out into your life’s work.

SEE US FOR YOUR “FEEDS”

We Have the BEST Things to Eat
Also Handle Country Produce and Seed Potatoes
CASHION & SON

Fry & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix ’Em Shoes
TRY US

ROW COLLARS FOR SPRING
CASCO-2⅜ in.
CLYDE-2¼ in.

Thos. E. Wilson & Co. unconditionally guarantee all their sporting goods and athletic equipment to give the satisfactory service which
you think they should give. We leave the decision to you. Your own sense of fair play decides. Our dealers
are authorized to abide by your judgment, and to adjust any claim you make.

Official and Standard Athletic Equipment

Be sure you find the Wilson trade mark on your Football Equipment, Basketball equipment, Sweaters, Shoes, Indoor League Balls, Bats
and Equipment, Golf Clubs, Golf Balls and Equipment, Tennis, Track and Gymnasium Equipment, Fishing Tackle, etc.

FOR SALE

Underwood Typewriter
In Good Condition
$25.00 CASH
J. A. THAMES
72 Chambers

You Have a Complete Record Of Davidson’s Activities Abroad and on the Campus for 1917-1918 in Athletics, Debating, in the
Army, etc., if you have a complete file of THE DAVIDSONIAN for this session. If you haven't, THE DAVIDSONIAN has
just 15 sets left, for sale at $1.00 each. First come, first served.
See O. J. THIES
32 Ga.
