T HEDAVIDSONIAN. Vol. V.

Reid Poole Gives His Life for Country
Was Candidate for the Ministry. Died at Camp Jackson.

An announcement in chapel by Dr. Martin on the morning of December 19 brought to us the first real impressiveness of the war. This was the news that Davidson had given one son to the cause of war, that “the war had actually begun.” We partially realized that the war was on last spring when so many of our fellow students left for the training camps; but that solemnness which must soon strike home to thousands in America fell upon the Davidson student body for the first time when the death of David Reid Poole, ex-'19, was announced.

Reid was taken sick with spinal meningitis on Friday, December 13. He had been in perfect health, and his sickness fell upon him suddenly. He contracted the disease, it is thought, from nursing a fellow soldier who had this deadly disease. Death came on Sunday, December 15, after only two days’ illness. His body was carried to Mocksville, N. C., where it was interred the following Wednesday.

To the Juniors, his fellow classmates, and to his other fellow students there is the familiar mental picture of the great brawny student with cheerfulness and determination written on his face. For two years he roomed on South Wing Chambers, and there made himself a favorite. He was a diligent and faithful student, and tried to make full use of his opportunities at college. Reid’s wonderful physique gave him a sure bid, all thought, of making the football team. He was really fond of athletics, and in his high school days had made a creditable showing in baseball. But coming to college he found little time to indulge in the sports. He played guard on his class football team, and showed considerable ability in putting the shot and discus. But the seriousness with which he took his studies bade him neglect athletics.

Reid was a candidate for the ministry, and one of the most zealous members of the Ministerial Band last spring. (Continued on page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 16, 1918.

Service
Many Alumni and Students Have Entered Some Branch of Active Service for Their Country.

This list is neither complete nor correct. We hear of new names nearly every day and the men are shifted so frequently that it is impossible to have a correct statement of their location. Most of these addresses were compiled in December, 1917. It is a showing in which Davidson College feels a deep pride, but it is proud also of the hundreds of men who are serving their country by doing their own work well in their various spheres, and of the young men now on the campus who are preparing themselves for whatever needs the future may bring. In many cases this is infinitely harder than to enlist.

To the Davidson men who have enlisted in war service:

My dear Fellows:

In preparing the list of the students, past and current, who have entered service in the world war—which list appears in this copy of The Davidsonian—we are mindful of the fact that it is almost impossible to get a complete roster, and doubtless there are mistakes and many omissions. We sent out a bulletin to all the Alumni asking that they give us the names of all who have entered, but I fear a great many have never been reported. Wherever this list comes under the eye of any Davidson man, or friend of the college, let him look it over and if there is any error in his own record, or that of any man contained in the list, or if there is any omission which he can supply, it will be a great favor to us if he will very promptly send as detailed information as possible. We are keeping a war catalog of Davidson men and we want to make it as accurate as possible. It is even now helpful to us and will be of considerable importance in later years, and may be a matter of great interest to every man who has gone into the service. A copy of this Davidsonian is being mailed to every man in the service whose address we have and we hope it will reach all of you. Later, we may get out another one which will be more complete and if the men will be interested enough to send in all possible names and addresses we shall be glad to send each one a copy when we publish the new list.

Our Nation enters this war with noblest aim and purpose. The college realizes that you men have undertaken a very serious business in responding to the country’s call. While there is something of adventure to every young man in an undertaking like this, the college would urge every one of you to keep in mind the true motives as set forth by our great President which compelled us to go into this war, for, unless you...do, the business becomes one of savage destruction only, and must be brutalizing in its effects on the participants. It is our earnest hope and prayer for you all that after you have rendered your full share of service, acquitting yourselves as men (as we confidently know you will), you will come back to the homeland safe in life and limb, and sound in morals and spiritual being. One of your number, young David R. Poole, of the class of 1916, is, so far as we know, the first of the Davidson men to give his life in the cause. He died December 15, 1917, in Camp Jackson, of pneumonia. If others of you are called to lay down your life in this noble cause, I pray that you may be ready to meet Him who is the Judge of all the earth, and find in Christ the Saviour of your immortal souls. I believe it was General Leonard Wood who so admirably said that “it matters not so much when we go as how we go,” and I heartily commend this sentiment to every one of you. May God bless and keep you all. (Signed) Wm. J. Martin, President.

Second Lieut. Minor Adams, ‘16.
Private Robert D. Alexander, ex-'17, Piedmont Art. Co., Camp Sevier, S.C.
Second Lieut. E. L. Alford, ex ‘17, Quartermaster’s Corps Division Supply Train, Camp Gordon, Ga.
Capt. James Allan, ‘12, Field Art., Camp Jackson, Columbia, S.C.
Second Lieut. Louis ‘18, Camp Jackson, Columbia, S.C.
Corps. Vincent W. Archer, ‘19, Camp Jackson, S.C.
Nath. L. Armistead, Section, American Exp. Forces, via New York.
Second Lieut. John B. Arrowood, ex ‘16, Seventh Student Co., Camp Joseph Johnson, Fla.
Clarence B. Bailey, '19, Army Med. School, Washington, D.C.
Second Lieut. Cecil B. Barksdale, ‘15.
Second Lieut. John R. Barron, "11, U.S. R. CALC. P. E. F., France.
Sergt. John C. Barry, ‘12, Recruiting Dept., Camp Hosp., El Paso, Tex.
Sec. Lieut. John B. Belk, ex-’15, N. C. C. A. C., Fort Caswell, N.C.
Private Robert H. Bennett, '16, Post Library, Paris Island, S.C.
Sec. Lieut. Will T. Bitzer, ‘14, Field Art., 320 Regt. F. A., Camp Gordon, Ga.
Sec. Lieut. Arthur F. Black, ex ‘10, El Paso, Tex.
Sec. Lieut. John M. Black, ex-'18, Camp Jackson, S.C., 316th Reg. F. A.
Sec. Lieut. Robert S. Blake, ex-’16, Camp Jackson, S.C.
Sec. Lieut. William K. Blake, Jr., ex '16, Camp Jackson, S.C.
Sec. Lieut. Everett L. Booe, ex-'11, Camp Greene, N.C., Reg. 38, Infantry.
James L. Boyd, '12, Hdqrs. Batt. F., 320th, F. A., N. A., Camp Gordon, Ga.
Donald E. Brown, '13, Camp Sevier, Greenville, S.C., 116th Inf.
Sec. Lieut. Robert F. Brownlee, ‘14, 321 Inf. Camp Jackson, S.C.
Stiles M. Brunson, ex-’15, Ambulance Corps, France.
Private Eddie B. Burns, ex-'19, Camp Jackson, S.C.
Harry Caldwell, ex-’14, Unit O, Fort McPherson, Ga.
(Continued on page 4)

Hospital H. Anderson.
Samuel W. Anderson, '11, Coast Art.
‘18 Aviation No. 14

Names of Former Davidson Students Known to Hon. M. R. Patterson Speaks Friday Night

National Prohibition is Theme of Speakers.

The Anti-Saloon League of North Carolina has announced that the campaign which is being conducted throughout the State includes more than three hundred speeches. The Anti-Saloon League is now in the midst of its campaign in North Carolina in behalf of national prohibition and for law enforcement. Superintendent Davis says that in this State-wide campaign by National speakers, who will make more than 400 speeches, it is the purpose to give to our people full information as to national prohibition and how we can help to accomplish it, as well as what will be necessary to get this State to ratify. Thirty-six States, through their General Assembly, must ratify the amendment before national prohibition can become effective and although it will not be a very difficult thing to get 25 or even 30 States, it will be quite difficult to get the 36. The liquor traffic EX-GOVERNOR PATTERSON will do their utmost to hold at least one State and if in the seven years allotted for the ratification of this amendment they should be successful in holding 13 of the 48 States, national prohibition will not be accomplished at this time. Therefore the urgent necessity of activity on the part of prohibitionists. It is hoped that this campaign will help to wake our people and officers up on the necessity of law enforcement. Mr. Davis says, information recently put out by Collector of Internal Revenue Bailey that the revenue officers in the State, in the last two months, captured over 600 blockade stills and that in his opinion there are more than 4,000 such stills operating in the State, proves that the Anti-Saloon League is not beating the air when we are urging law enforcement and proves further that some of the State officers are derelict in their duty.

Davidson has been very fortunate in the allotment of speakers that the Anti-Saloon League has made for us. Ex-Governor Patterson, of Tennessee, also former member of Congress, is too well known to need any introduction to our (Continued on page 2)