2 The DAVIDSONIAN. May 1, 1918

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson

Editorial Board:
E. A. Woods
R. E. McClure
L. C. McAskill

The Staff:
G. W. M. Currie
William Love

Management:
A. Siske
M. T. G. D. Sample
C. J. A. D. McArn

Reporters’ Staff:
Class of ’19—Q. N. Huneycutt
Class of '20—L. G. Calhoun, G. A. Byrd, W. F. Hall, Jr., A. I. Wilson
Class of ’21—W. P. Cumming, J. R. Boulware, Jr., B. W. Romefelt, A. M. Mitchell, L. B. Schenck

Additional reporters for this issue are: R. Drum, J. R. Walker, R. R. Craig, R. L. Liston, D. L. Mahood, E. N. Booker, T. H. Spence, and R. H. Stone.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL

CONVICTION

During the next two weeks, student body and class officers will be elected for the coming year. The general character and conduct of the student body of next year will be determined by these men, just as the character of the student body this year has been in the hands of the present able corps of officers. The result is very evident—one of the most successful years, with regard to student government, Davidson has enjoyed for some time. The faculty, the alumni, and all interested in the college will be looking on with the deepest interest and concern. Student government is not a complete success. This fact must be honestly faced. Yet it is certainly better than faculty rule, and those who instituted it here at Davidson firmly cherish the hope that the students will fully realize the responsibility placed upon them and will rise to it. A man is not elected to an office for the honor alone, but to act with judgment and decision. A week is not too long for every man to be considering thoughtfully who are the best men for each office. The student councilmen’s oath may well be applied: “that each man will vote neither from envy, hatred, or malice, nor for fear, favor, affection, reward, or hope of reward, so help me God.” Our next year's student body won't regret it.

A COLLEGE COURSE

“The man is well on his road to knowledge, when, during his four years of college, he has learned the following five things: Accuracy; Concentration; Love of Learning, not that blind infatuation which keeps a man with his nose in a book the whole time, but that quiet, thoughtful and common-sense desire to know more; Deep thinking, that art which is almost lost in these days; and last and possibly greatest, Humility, that which tells us that we have a few things yet to learn in this world, notwithstanding the fact that we have had a college education.”

Editor-in-Chief:
D. M. Chalmers

Managing Editor:
W. Roberts

Assignment Editor:
E. Alumni Editor
Athletic Editor:
Emory Flinn
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.

Business Manager:
Stone

Circulation Manager:
Matthews

Assistant Managers:
LUNA YY *1861-

YOUR OPINION

There has been something wrong with the Literary Societies for the last two or three years. The rolls are distinctly shorter than they used to be, and there is a significant decline in interest and pep. A number of would-be campus prophets have allowed the societies two alternatives; first, that they will collapse and pass out of existence; and second, that they will have a great revival and regain their waning campus. But we can’t believe that the first will happen. Such a thing would be a disastrous calamity for the college, and surely something can be done to avert it. And yet the societies need a regeneration badly. The object of this article is to urge any of the students, especially the Seniors, whether society members or non-society members, especially the latter, to tell us frankly what's wrong with these organizations. Why is it you did not join? Why is it you dropped out? What causes the peplessness? What can be done to put more life into them and to put them in the place of service and influence they deserve on the campus? Think, talk, and write about it. This column will gladly welcome your opinion on this question.

LOOKING AHEAD

Next year seems a long way off, and it's a lot pleasanter to think about the summer than another term's work; yet planning ahead never comes amiss. You Sophs and Juniors, who have elective courses next year, have you chosen your course? Do you choose your tickets with any plan for the work you expect to do after leaving college? Do you choose a bunch of tickets because they are “crips?” It's the same old tale that’s preached to all students, that, if you “ride through college on cinches,” you will regret it ten years from now. Ask any thoughtful business man if it's not so.Do you try to get what is called a general education, or do you specialize in just a few studies? Talk to the professor you like best and ask him to advise you. Do you choose a ticket because you have to, or because you want the course? A man gets about half the benefit from a study when he hates it and continually kicks himself for electing it, rather than at least trying to develop some interest for it. It seems a little thing electing five tickets, and yet we can't realize how important our decision has been until we have completed the course. After it's all over, possibly we will wish we had used a little more thought and had asked for some seasoned advice.

THE CAMPUS. The campus is abused in two ways; one way being injurious and the other causing waste of labor. Look down from the cupola, and well-worn and defined paths can be seen running across the grass. There are three in particular; one running from Chambers to Shearer Hall, another from Chambers to Elliot’s, and the third from Rumple to Phi Hall. They resemble long scars ruthlessly scored across a campus which should be unrivaled in beauty. Fellows, with the hundreds of feet of thick grass to each side, must we pick this poor, one-foot wide line, with grass almost stamped out, to walk on? It's not necessary to keep off the grass entirely, yet surely we can keep off these worn places and give them a chance to recuperate.

The other abuse is the fact that many of the students consider the campus a common waste-basket. Is it easier to throw a crumpled piece of paper out of the window than on the floor or in a basket? It not only disfigures the grass but takes a large part of one man’s time to collect it all up. Mr. Jackson has offered to keep the tennis courts behind Chambers marked off if the students will refrain from throwing trash out of the windows, thus freeing a man to do some other work. That's a fair offer. Let's take him up on it.

Official and Standard Athletic Equipment. Be sure you find the Wilson trade mark on your Football Equipment, Basketball equipment, Sweaters, Shoes, Indoor League Balls, Bats and Equipment, Golf Clubs, Golf Balls and Equipment, Tennis, Track and Gymnasium Equipment, Fishing Tackle, etc.

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special designs and estimates furnished on medals, rings, for athletic meets, etc.

BLUE RIDGE. Blue Ridge grows upon me, and I say this after yearly experience of the place since it was first opened. I spent two weeks there in the War Work School for Y. M. C. A. Secretaries in March and April of this year, and saw the mountains in undress. The billowy foliage of the opulent summer time had, of course, not come, and the everlasting hills were bare down to the ground, the trails which I had never seen before from a distance were plainly marked, and Lee Hall looked whiter than ever in the dark gray frame of the winter woods. Perhaps this general exterior aspect added to the coziness of the big lobby, and certainly the log fires in the cottages gave one a new feeling of hominess. But it was the schedule of the War Work School which gave me a new sense of the importance of Blue Ridge, for is there another place in the whole South that could have afforded just the opportunity for such a school? Or could have assembled it or could have made so direct a contribution to the winning of the war? Men went away from that school into camps throughout this country and overseas carrying with them undying recollections of Blue Ridge. The young men who go up from the colleges to the student conference in June will pass into this atmosphere of higher consecration to the service of the country and of the world, and they must be stolid natures indeed who fail to thrill to the opportunities which Blue Ridge throws open to the student population of the South.

E. M. POTEAT.

Thos. E. Wilson & Co. Unconditionally guarantee all their sporting goods and athletic equipment to give the satisfactory service which you think they should give. We leave the decision to you. Your own sense of fair play decides. Our dealers are authorized to abide by your judgment, and to adjust any claim you make.

1918

THE PIEDMONT THEATRE NORTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Complete change of program twice a week. Three Shows Daily First Class Vaudeville

SEE US FOR YOUR “FEEDS” We Have the BEST Things to Eat Also Handle Country Produce and Seed Potatoes CASHION & SON