Vol. V.

Successful Meeting Conducted by Dr. Miley
Meeting Closed on Sunday Night—Was Well Attended.

The people of Davidson were peculiarly fortunate last week in having the opportunity of hearing Dr. W. H. Miley, Superintendent
of Evangelism of the Southern Presbyterian Church. With the exception of Saturday, Dr. Miley preached two sermons a day for
eight days, beginning Sunday morning, February 17. The text of the first sermon was II Kings 22:8: “I have found
the book of the law in the house of the Lord.” Dr. Miley showed that the decadent condition of Israel
and the present tendency toward deterioration are due to three causes: (1) the lost altar, (2) the lost Book, (3)
the lost closet. Beginning with this strong sermon on the duty of Christians to remedy existing conditions, Dr. Miley in
each of his subsequent sermons struck mighty blows at prevalent sins and exhorted the followers of Christ to higher living.
Monday night, Dr. Miley preached on the text, Heb. 11:4: “He being dead, yet speaketh.” The fact that what man
does lives after him was brought out. “We will all speak after we are dead, but what will we say?
True Christians will speak kind words and do noble deeds that will never die.”

On Tuesday afternoon Dr. Miley spoke on the evils derived from supposition. He said that much of the ill feeling
between members of the church and much of the suffering of the innocent is due to mere suppositions which are
absolutely baseless. The sermon Wednesday night was in the minds of many the most powerful discourse delivered during the series
of meetings. The text was Rom. 6:23: “The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal
life through Jesus Christ our Lord.” Various words of the text were first contrasted, wages with gift, sin with God,
death with life. The wages of sin is death not only physical but spiritual and eternal. The gift of God,
however, is life everlasting.

(Continued on page 6)

Program Arranged for Junior Speaking
Left Last Monday
Speaking Begins Friday Afternoon
Plays Guilford, Elon, Trinity and Other Events.

Friday, March 1, 3:00 p.m.—Speaking.
Friday, March 1, 7:30 p.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, March 2, 10:00 a.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, March 2, 2:30 p.m.—Speaking.
Saturday, March 2, 8:00 p.m.—Concert by Glee Club.
Saturday, March 2, 9:00 p.m.—Faculty Reception.
Saturday, March 2, 10:00 p.m.—Fraternity Reception.

The proud oratorical Junior and the timid, stage-frightened Junior alike await the inevitable hour, and that hour is fast drawing
nigh. In a few days the vast labors and the mighty struggles to search out truths from volumes of bygone
days that these Juniors have undergone will be brought to light, and their oratorical abilities will be exposed to the
public gaze. For the past weeks the Library has been haunted by grim-visaged young gentlemen, who have delved deep into
the recesses of knowledge, and turned the pages of the Reader's Guide to Periodicals with a feverish glance. They have
covered reams of paper with the results of these researches, and in the deep stillness of the night have committed
to memory the great thoughts to which they will soon give utterance.

One noticeable fact about the subjects chosen for Junior speaking is the prominence of topics of more or less abstractness.
Possibly they are to be congratulated on this, for to some listeners anything is better than the war. Some of
them are going to speak on the war, however, and many of these war-orators will be worth hearing. “Friendship,” “Originality,”
“Imagination,” “Ambition,” “Omnipotence,” “Womankind,” “Decisions,” these are some of the philosophical topics that will be discussed. New subjects are: C.
B. Robson, “Democracy at War;” C. M. Hodgin, “Socialism;” W. A. Cullum, “South America;” D. A. Hipp, “Germany Four” (Continued
on page 6)

Carolina on Trip.

The Davidson Varsity basketball team left the Hill Monday morning on their Carolina trip. Monday night they played Guilford and
took on Elon Tuesday night; Carolina, Wednesday, and Trinity Thursday following. The team is badly crippled through the loss of
“Dutch” Hengeveld, but can be counted upon to do itself justice. The trip will be a hard one all around
but with anything like an even break in luck, Davidson will come out all to the good. Carolina, by a
long line of reasoning and comparative scores, figures that Davidson will prove easy money. But dope has been upset before
by Davidson teams. We'll see how good dope on comparative scores really is. Elon beat the strong V. M. I.
quint and played Carolina a close game. Davidson is sure of a good game with them. Trinity has defeated W.&
L., Elon, Guilford and divided two games with A.& E. Though Guilford lost to D. C. on the latter's floor,
with Hengeveld out of the Red and Black line-up, a close game is assured. Carolina has divided games with Guilford
and beat Elon, but lost to the Lynchburg Athletic Club. King, McAlister, Davenport, McAskill, Schenck, Romefelt, W. M. Hall, and
Hengeveld made the trip.

POOLE’S PICTURE PLACED IN LIBRARY

In the reading room of the Library has been placed a picture of David Reid Poole, the first known instance
of a Davidson man who has given his life for the cause of America in the World War. The portrait
has been placed there by the college in token of its honor of this man, who has made the supreme
sacrifice and as a tribute to the first name on the highest Honor Roll. Underneath the portrait is an account
of Poole’s record in college, and the manner of his death.

"We entered this war as the evangels of peace; we are mobilizing the industries and resources of the United States
in order that they may secure peace for the world." —Newton D. Baker.

THE PAST.

Washington and Lee, 20; Davidson, 33.
Virginia Military Institute, 29; Davidson, 12.
Roanoke College, 17; Davidson, 43.
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 20; Davidson, 49.
Winston-Salem “Y”, 33; Davidson, 55.
Guilford College, 24; Davidson, 37.
Winston-Salem “Y”, February 26—Elon College.

Guilford College (Cancelled).
Eastern College (Cancelled).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute (Cancelled).
Clemson College (Cancelled).
Huntersville Highs, 29; D. C. “Scrubs.”

THE FUTURE.

February 25—Guilford College, at Guilford, N. C.
February 26—at Elon, N. C.
February 27—University of N. C., at Chapel Hill, N. C.
February 28—Trinity College, at Durham, N.C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 27, 1918.
Basketball Team No. 20

Armenian Sufferings Described in Lecture
Dr. Ussher Tells of Experiences and Conditions There.

Dr. C. S. Ussher, medical missionary to Turkey, and now at home on furlough, gave a very interesting lecture before
the student body Thursday morning upon Turkish atrocities during this war. He began his talk with a picture of Christianity
on trial. He had been invited, with other Americans and Englishmen of note, to a banquet given by the Governor
General. The Governor General at length turned the occasion into an attempt to deride Christianity. Dr. Ussher told of the
answers he made to the Governor General. He then went on to show how Christianity is on trial in Turkey
today, and the answers to criticism it is giving.

Dr. Ussher told how Turkey mobilized thirty-two regiments at his own city of Van in 1911, anticipating a world war;
but affairs between France and Germany having subsided, these were disbanded. Turkey again mobilized her troops in March, 1914, and
was followed shortly by Austria. Since the great war began, Americans have been the only Christians left in Turkey, and
the Germans have done what they could to get these out, and thus destroy all foreign influence except their own
there. Americans have forty million dollars invested in Turkey, much of it in colleges and hospitals. The Americans in Turkey
have worked loyally at their posts since the war opened and have been of invaluable service to that stranded nation.

He described how the Turks had turned against the Armenians because they are Christians and had murdered hundreds of thousands.
Whole sections of Armenia have been depopulated, the inhabitants sometimes being massacred, sometimes stripped of clothing and marched for days
in the burning sun until all were in a state worse than death. All that country along which Germany intends
to build the Bagdadbahn has been depopulated, that Germany might colonize it after the war. Thus Dr. Ussher attributed the
cause of Armenian suffering to Germany. Unwonted violence has been used by Turkey in also closing schools taught by young
Armenian women, and forcing the teachers to enter the harems, or, refusing, as most of them do, to flee into
the face of probable death. A ban has been placed by the Turkish government upon all who attempt to render
assistance to these refugees. Moreover, famine is everywhere in the land, especially since Turkey has called to her colors all
men between the ages of eighteen and sixty and only the women are left to cultivate the fields.

Most interesting was the account given by the speaker of the siege of his own city of Van by the
Turkish army in 1915. After weeks of suffering, the Armenians were relieved by the Russian army. For the noble services
he rendered during this terrible siege, Dr. Ussher was later thanked by the Czar of Russia in person and given
the honor and title of General.
