The DAVIDSONIAN, October 9, 1918

In Memoriam
J. C. Paisley, '17.
P. R. Brown, ex-'07.
D. C. Shaw, ex-’15.
Frank H. Smith, '16.

DAVIDSON MAN PROMOTED.
From the “Charlotte Observer” it is learned that a special cablegram has been received by J. L. Scott, Jr., stating
that his son, Maj. Don E. Scott, has been promoted to lieutenant colonel. He has sent home a cap taken
from the first Hun killed by his battalion. He is a graduate of Davidson College. It is gratifying to know
that Davidson men are making good wherever they are.

OUR YOUNG PETER.
Only a few months ago I saw him—young Peter, the shipping clerk in our concern, a stalwart lad of twenty-four,
eager to get into the great war. He came over to my desk to say goodbye to me, no longer
in the dirty little apron he wore when he worked out in the shipping room, but clean and well set
up in his khaki, a lieutenant now in the army of the United States of America. How good it was
to see him, after his training camp life, the fire of patriotism in his eyes, a flame in his heart,
and something undreamed of before in his soul! And to think that our young Peter was going away to fight
for us—one of the millions to serve Freedom! How strange life is, since this boy who had known only shipping
receipts, tags, figures, and horse-play was now going forth with a musket in his hand instead of a pen! And
to France! It seemed incredible. I shall never forget how proud we were of our Peter as he marched out
of the office. Some of the girls cried as they watched his broad back and his manly, fearless stride. I
confess that I choked, and perhaps I preferred just then to turn and look out of the window.

That was only three months ago. And today a letter has come from him—in No Man’s Land. Our Peter, our
young Peter! He is in that country of barbed wire and bombshells. He is in the trenches. And he has
not had his boots off, he writes, sometimes for a whole week; and when he sleeps the rats race over
him. But he is not afraid. He will give the Boche a run for his money! He will help to
make this world a better place to live in. He will do his bit for democracy and truth. Oh, so
modestly he writes down the words! There is seemingly no comprehension on his part of the big work he is
doing. He merely alludes to it because he knows how interested we are in him—our Peter. Now and then there
is a simple French word. Think of our Peter speaking—and writing—French! Peter, who hardly got through the grammar school, and
read only the baseball reports, and loved Briggs and Goldberg, and went to the movies with his best girl or
his mother of an evening! I think of modest Peter so often now. And yesterday, whenI went out to my
comfortable luncheon, in good company, and the tea dripped into the saucer so that I complained to the head waiter.
I suddenly had a vision of him—in No Man’s Land, with the rats racing over him while he lay worn
out after days and nights in the foul trenches. And I was ashamed of myself, and wondered if I could
ever complain again. For what matters anything in these desperate days to me—save our young Peter out in No Man’s
Land! —Charles Hanson Towne, in The Outlook.

A man left his umbrella in a rack with a card attached, reading as follows: “The owner of this umbrella
weighs 240 pounds and strikes a blow like a sledgehammer.” Another man took the umbrella, leaving the card, after having
written on the reverse side: “The man who took this umbrella can run a mile in four minutes and he
is not coming back.”

“Are you related to the bride or groom-elect?” asked the busy usher.
“No.”
“Then what interest have you in the ceremony?”
“I’m the defeated candidate.” —Ex.

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH CLASS SHOES?
A Complete Line of Military Shoes
Gilmer - Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both.
The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done.
Quality and Service
Engraved Work a Specialty
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE [Phone 643] NORTH CAROLINA

Let us convince you

To Our Young Men Who Are Preparing to Go “Over There”
We can supply you with the best quality of Regulation Army Shoes, Leather Puttees, Canvas Leggings, Regulation Army Shirts, Ties,
Socks, etc.; Stetson Army Hats. Mail orders will receive our prompt attention.
8-10 West Trade St.
Mellon’s
Charlotte, N. C.

War Time Prices Haven’t affected THE DAVIDSONIAN'S advertising rates. This year, more than ever, will it be an EFFECTIVE BUT
INEXPENSIVE ADVERTISING MEDIUM. Your advertisement in an attractive paper before 1,500 interested readers will be a paying proposition for you.
Former Advertiser: Have you renewed your advertising contract?
Prospective Advertiser: Have you sent in your advertising order yet? DON’T WAIT, but write for advertising rates AT ONCE.
T.C. Stone, Business Mgr.

Fresh Line of GROCERIES At All Times
Also a Complete Line of Hardware, Military Goods, Undertakers’ Supplies
R. S. JOHNSTON & CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.
PHONE 85

“Military Outfitters”
Kuppenheimer Uniforms—the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. Barnistee Puttees. Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices. Also complete line
of Men’s and Young Men’s SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc.
“WE SAVE YOU MONEY”
V. WALLACE & SONS
31-33 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro
