Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

With the Alumni LT. S. R. KEESLER, JR. '17, IS REPORTED MISSING

News has come that Lieut. Samuel R. Keesler, Jr., '17, of Greenwood, Miss., who is in the aviation service, has
been missing since October 10. Lieutenant Keesler is well known, not only in Davidson circles, but throughout the South as
one of the South's best quarterbacks. He was one of the leaders at Davidson in every phase of college activity,
being president of the student body, president of the Eumenean Society, member of The Davidsonian, Magazine, and Annual staffs, member
of Y. M. C. A. cabinet, quarterback on the Davidson football team for three years, and member of the baseball
team two years. The opposing football team always felt an uneasiness when Sam was generaling his team’s tactics. Sam also
distinguished himself as a student, specializing in the literary studies.

Shortly after war was declared in April 1917, the call of Oglethorpe Training Camp came home to many of Davidson's
athletes and other leaders. Sam was one of those who volunteered, afterwards graduating as second lieutenant. But the infantry could
not retain his daring athletic nature when the opportunity to enlist in the aviation was afforded. Accordingly, he was transferred,
and this spring was sent abroad as one of Uncle Sam's young eagles. Of his work in France, rest assured
that the quarterback who wrought such confusion to the Wake Forest, A. & M., and Carolina football teams has not
been a dove of peace as he has flown over the German lines.

The announcement that Lieutenant Keesler is missing does not necessarily assure us of his death. It is quite possible that
news may shortly come of his safety. The hearts of all friends will hope for his safety and eagerly await
news of such.

Davidson safety and Dr. John Bonar White, '10, of the Medical Corps, United States Army, was married on Monday, November
4, to Miss Marguerite Brickman, of Baltimore, Md. Chaplain Henry Graybill Bedinger, '11, was married to Miss Alice Sturdivant, of
Florence, S. C., on September 10. Chaplain Bedinger has since been sent to France. Capt. Conrad J. Shelton, ex-'11, of
Davidson, N. C., who has been with the heavy artillery "over there," has recently been wounded. We understand that Corporal
Shelton's wound is not severe and his many friends here will anxiously await the news of his complete recovery.

The name of S. C. Hart, '12, of Met Ula, N. C., has recently appeared in the Charlotte Observer casualty
list as killed in action. Hart came to Davidson in 1909, and during the four years he spent here established
the reputation of an earnest, hard-working student. He took little interest in athletics, but played on his class football team
two years, doing good work. He had a host of friends, and news of his death will come as a
blow to all.

The DAVIDSONIAN, OF ALUMNI DEATH CLAIMS ONE OF DAVIDSON'S OLDEST

In one of its issues last spring, The Davidsonian ran a "cut" of Davidson's two oldest twin alumni, who went
forth from her college walls to fight in the Civil War. News has come to the paper of the death
of Duncan Alexander Buie Robeson, one of these brothers. In his death, Davidson lost a loyal and beloved alumnus. After
a short illness, he passed quietly away on October 4, 1918, lacking one month of rounding out his 85th year.
At the beginning of the War Between the States, Mr. Buie and his twin brother, Daniel Buie, were juniors at
Davidson College. They enlisted in Capt. Malcolm McNair’s company, and within a very short time, less than a week, were
in service. Duncan, the subject of this sketch,was sent to Wilmington and appointed quartermaster sergeant of the 70th N.C. Regiment
of Heavy Artillery. He remained at Baldhead Island until the fall of Fort Fisher. Marched through Wilmington the day it
was evacuated, to Kinston, N.C. and was in the battle there on March 9. He went from there to Bentonville
and surrendered with General Johnston, April 27, 1865. He reached home in May of the same year. He was beloved
by all who knew him, for his kindheartedness and helpfulness. He was one in whose spirit there was no guile.
He was one of the very few men that I have ever known, concerning whom I have never heard an
unkind word spoken. Perhaps his life was an illustration of the Scripture truth: “Whatsoever ye sow that shall ye also
reap.” He was beautiful and lovely in his home life and one could not fail to be touched to see
the devotion existing between the two old souls who had lived so happily together for more than a half-century. He
leaves for his beloved companion, and two daughters and a large circle of relatives and friends, that greatest of all
legacies—a good name.

Y.M.C.A. NOTES.

The “Y” moving picture machine will soon be here. It has been on its way now for several days. Mr.
Moore has arranged the programs so that they shall be both instructive and entertaining. As there shall be two shows
every week, the one on Tuesday nights and the other on Saturday nights. The features for Tuesdays shall be of
a composite nature, the pictures having such stars as Douglas Fairbanks, Charlie Chaplin, and Mary Pickford may be seen, while
those of Saturday nights shall be the very best in the movie line. The carpenters have been busy for the
last week making the benches. These are now on the floor. The screen is here, and now, with a little
patience on our part, the machine shall soon be here. Mr. Moore hopes to have things running by Saturday night.

THAT ARMY SLOGAN NOW IS “CAREFUL OF”

“Wow! Don't touch that arm. My, but she’s sore.” Such are the exclamations heard everywhere on the campus. For the
Davidson boys have been under fire and, strange to say, each has been shot in the arm. There are no
serious wounds, however, as the “bullets” were needles, loaded with typhoid and smallpox serums. Companies “A” and “C” were “shot
at sunset” Friday; Company “B” was “shot at sunrise” Saturday. Company “D” has so far escaped capture, but the greatest
fear is entertained for them.

November 13, 1918

Attention! To Our Young Men Who Are Preparing to Go “Over There”

We can supply you with the best quality of Regulation Canvas Leggings, Regulation Army Shoes, Leather Puttees, Socks, Army Shirts,
etc.; Stetson Army Hats. Mail orders will receive our prompt attention.

8-10 West Trade St.

We feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery and Gifts In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S 210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N.C. Mail Orders a Specialty

“Military Outfitters” Kuppenheimer Uniforms---the Best Known. Stetson Army Hats. Barnistee Puttees Everything in the Military Line At Reasonable Prices Also
complete line of Men’s and Young Men's SUITS and OVERCOATS, Etc. “WE SAVE YOU MONEY” V. WALLACE & SONS 31-33
West Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. Stores at Charlotte, Salisbury, Greensboro

SPALDING’S For Shoes Caps, Belts Foot Ball Equipment Sweaters Jerseys And the implements for every athletic game, of course.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros. 74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

CLUEETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. MAKERS
