The DAVIDSONIAN February 20, 1918

FORUM

Red Cross News

The Red Cross workers are proud of a shipment to the Charlotte headquarters this week, consisting of 780 pieces. Some
finished work, many knitted articles, and almost 100 rest pillows are on hand still. The packing and shipping present a
very difficult problem to the ladies. One box waited almost a week for shipment because no woman present was man
enough to get planks for the top, saw and nail them on. After much combined effort it was done, but
it seems to us an auxiliary among the men of the town who are also members of the Red Cross
could greatly relieve the difficulty by volunteering to help in this part of the work. Most assuredly, the Red Cross
is everyone’s work, as it is everyone’s investment. The work of the Red Cross here is just one way in
which the money you have given is being used. Everyone may have a “say” in it, and interest in the
work will prove a stimulus to the workers.

Private Peat, a Canadian, writes: “The soldiers who have been there do not think of the Red Cross as an
organization. To us, it is but a

Don’t Forget

AN ALL-STAR TEAM.

Davidson College has always enjoyed the reputation of producing good athletes, and of maintaining clean athletics. I had heard of
Davidson's reputation before entering college, but nothing that I heard is to be compared with the reputation she has gained
during the past four years. I think we owe it to those men, who have won such fame in athletics
for their Alma Mater, to make mention of them in an all-selection of teams from our three major sports: football,
baseball, and basketball. In my selection this week I am picking—without showing partiality to any man—a football team which I
believe is the best that can be selected from the “D” men in this department for the past four years.
Three of these men—Flowers, Grey, and King—have been mentioned as All-American material by several noted sport writers, while a good
number—four I believe—were mentioned on All-Southern teams. It is certain that we have always had more than our share picked
for All-State teams. The selection is as follows:

King, G. M., '18—R. E.; Bristol, Tenn.; height, 5 feet 10 inches; weight, 155 pounds; (Captain, 1917).
Walker, R. B., '18—L. E.; Columbia, S. C.; height, 5 feet 11 inches; weight, 160 pounds; (Captain-elect, 1917).
Anderson, L. H., '15—R. T.; Anderson, S. C.; height, 6 feet 2 inches; weight, 174 pounds.
Howell, G. E., '15—L. T.; Rockingham, N. C.; height, 5 feet 11 inches; weight, 166 pounds; (Captain, 1915).
Sayad, W. Y., '17—R. G.; Urumia, Persia; height, 5 feet 5 inches; weight, 175 pounds.
Grey, H. M., '18—L. G.; Davidson, N. C.; height, 5 feet 8 inches; weight, 185 pounds.
White, B. N., '17—C.; Danielsville, Ga.; height, 6 feet 1 inch; weight, 178 pounds; (Captain, 1916).
Keesler, S. R., '17—Q. B.; Greenwood, Miss.; height, 5 feet 5 inches; weight, 135 pounds.
McKinnon, W. B., '16—F. B.; Brunswick, Ga.; height, 5 feet 11 inches; weight, 190 pounds; (Captain-elect, 1916).

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
J. A. THAMES, . . . Agent

Clearance Sale
All Men’s and Boys Overcoats
Buy Now and Save

BOOKS.-STATIONARY. NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, North Carolina

The College PRINTERS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DRY CLEANING
High Grade Laundering
Hats Cleaned & Reblocked
The Charlotte Laundry
Oldest Largest Best
A.S. Petts, College Agent, 26 Chambers

BOOST the ATHLETIC Association By Backing
Laundry collected every TUESDAY night

The Commissary
Full Line of Athletic Goods, Felt Goods, and other College Supplies

Onion Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address:
W.W. Moore,D.D., LLD. a Pring y|Gents’ Furnishings, principal "branch of the Army.” “If the Red Cross workers who handle surgical
dressings could realize even to half the extent, the importance, the vital importance of their work, there would be three
women to each job where there is one now.” ‘You may save the life of your own son, husband, brother
or sweetheart by commencing to work for Red Cross in the next hour.” So speaks one who has been saved
on the field by the Red Cross.

On account of the church services every afternoon in the week from the 18th to 24th it will be necessary
to close the work room, but it is hoped that every worker will be in her place on Monday afternoon,
the 25th, with a new store of energy and enthusiasm.

If you want Good Printing and Quick Service—BRADY is the Man to Do It

GILBERT & MADDREY AT THE COMMISSARY Are Our Representatives at the College

The Hoover & Smith Co. Official Fraternity Jewelers

DR. LINGLE TRANSFERRED TO WORK AMONG FRENCH

Extract from a letter from Dr. T. W. Lingle, written on January 20, from Paris, Rue Lafayette 13, as mailing
address:

On November 23 I was transferred to work in the French army, and I am now stationed in a camp
in the forest to which men come back from the batteries and trenches to rest while forwarding munitions to their
comrades. At present a good many men from one of France's most famous artillery regiments are in camp—a fine bunch
of men. I am the only American in these parts and at present there seems to be no foreigners of
any kind in this sector, not even French Colonial troops who were so numerous until six weeks ago. The men
I see these days make me think they will hold their part of the line against all comers, just as
they did when the terrible smash was undertaken before. A great German offensive in the near future may budge the
line for a day or two or three till the French and British are able to get their men and
supplies to the point in question, but I feel very confident that the Allies will hold fast, just as they
have always done since the Marne. I can’t believe the Germans believe they have any opportunity at all after the
coming June. It is now or never with them.

1915). Black, J. M., '18—R. H. B.; Harrisburg, N. C.; height, 5 feet 10 inches; weight, 170 pounds. Flowers, A.
R. '20—L. H. B.; Sumter, S. C.; height, 5 feet 7.5 inches; weight, 150 pounds. The baseball selection will follow
next week.

DR. JUSTICE ADDRESSES AESCULAPIAN CLUB

A meeting of the Aesculapian Club was held in the Eumenean Hall Tuesday night, February 5. The club adopted for
its colors Purple and Old Gold. After the business had been transacted the following men were initiated: C. M. McCaskill,
B. O. Clark, R. C. Bernan, A. D. Mason, Jr., and Hooker. An informal but enjoyable feed was then given
in honor of the new men.

On Wednesday night, February 13, Dr. Z. K. Justice addressed the club in Shearer Hall. His address dealt mainly with
the sources of infection; the defining of commonly misunderstood medical terms; and quarantine as a means of public safety. The
club is exercising every effort to get a meningitis specialist to make an address before the student body. The club
has on hand some literature on cerebrospinal meningitis, and will be glad to lend it to anyone interested in it.

Furniture, Household Furnishings, etc., go to

—When in Mooresville Visit—

The Miller-White Drug Company Special Attention to Davidson Men

A BIG IMPROVEMENT

(V. H. GOODRUM & CO.’S STORE)

Doing more Work and Better Work

The New Steam Press at the Old Stand

F. D. Hall, '19, left last Monday for Annapolis, where he will remain for two months. After taking his final
examination for entrance to Annapolis, he will return and finish his work here until called.

Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done? See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

Tobe Johnson 17 Years at the Same Place
