THEDAVIDSONIAN
Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 9, 1918. No. 2
Photo by the Moores, Charlotte, N. C.
STUDENTS’ ARMY TRAINING CORPS, DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

“Flu” Epidemic Takes Heavy Toll at Davidson
Situation Much Improved, Is Well Under Control Now.

Davidson College has had a severe visitation of Spanish influenza, and everyone on the campus, at least, ought to be
thankful that it is not a dangerous disease. Shortly after the first case appeared, the regular college infirmary was fully
occupied. The first floor of the south wing of Chambers was then resorted to and a nurse was secured to
take charge. It soon became necessary to use the second and third floors, and nurses were secured to take charge
of each floor. At one time, there were over a hundred and fifty men in the infirmary suffering from this
ailment. Such conditions as this were new at Davidson, and the problem arising was altogether a new one. But it
was not beyond the management of the four trained nurses and the Davidson ladies of the Red Cross, by whose
kind help and succor the suffering has been wonderfully alleviated.

To provide for the necessary cooking, two kitchens were improvised in the building, and utensils and supplies were bought in
Charlotte. A large supply of pillowcases, sheets, and towels was necessary and was secured in Charlotte. All the needs of
the patients have been supplied and the epidemic is pretty well under control. The Spanish influenza has reached its climax
at Davidson and will soon make its departure. Convalescing quarters are already necessary. The west side of Rumple is being
used for this purpose. Too much praise cannot be given to the ladies of the Davidson Red Cross Chapter who
have worked unceasingly to provide for and attend to the sick. The professors also have rendered much aid and have
organized themselves into shifts which change at regular hours. All classes have been suspended for the present and the campus
is in strict quarantine, with no one being allowed to leave the campus without the written permission of an officer.
Everything possible under the present circumstances has been done for the comfort and convenience of the patients. Mention should also
be made of the work of Dr. Withers, who has been called upon very frequently to attend to new cases.

The situation is now well under control and very few new cases are developing. Dr. Clayburg and his corps of
assistants...

Memorable Ceremony Is Held at Formal Inauguration of S. A. T. C. at Davidson
Messages From the President, Secretary of War, and Others are Read.

A most impressive gathering was held at noon on the first day of October. It was indeed a historic ceremony
and one that will long be remembered by its participants and those from the town who were present. It marked
the formal inauguration of the Students’ Army Training Corps at Davidson College. The battalion was formed in the shape of
a square around the foot of the flagpole and messages from the President and many other prominent men were read
by the officers present. The ceremony was begun with a prayer by Dr. C. M. Richards. Lieut. R. G. Dennard
stated that at that very hour over one hundred and fifty thousand students in more than five hundred colleges were
standing at attention in a ceremony similar to that one. Messages from President Woodrow Wilson, Secretary of War Newton D.
Baker, Col. R. I. Rees, and others were read by Lieutenants Candler, Dwyer, and Doverspike. The following message from the
President was read:

“The step you have taken is a most significant one. By it, you have ceased to be merely individuals, each
seeking to perfect himself to win his own place in the world, and have become comrades in the common cause
of making the world a better place to live in. You have joined yourselves with the entire manhood of the
country and pledged, as did your forefathers, ‘your lives, your fortunes, and your sacred honor,’ to the freedom of humanity.

“The enterprise upon which you have embarked is a hazardous and difficult one. This is not a war of words;
this is not a scholastic struggle. It is a war of ideals, yet fought with all the devices of science
and with all the power of machines. To succeed, you must not only be inspired by the ideals for which
this country stands but you must also be masters of the technique with which the battle is fought. You must
not only be thrilled with zeal for the common welfare, but you must also...be masters of the weapons of today.
"There can be no doubt of the issue. The spirit that is revealed and the manner in which America has
responded to the call is indomitable. I have no doubt that you too will use your utmost strength to maintain
that spirit and to carry it forward to the final victory that will certainly be ours. "Woodrow Wilson."

The flag was raised and the oath of allegiance was taken by the members of the S. A. T. C.
Dr. Martin spoke on behalf of the college and stirred all present. The picture shown on page 1 was then
made.

LT. FRANK H. SMITH KILLED IN ACCIDENT

It is with great sorrow that all Davidson men learn of the death of Lt. Frank H. Smith, '16. Smith
graduated at Davidson in '16 with first honors. He taught at McCallie the next year and enlisted in the Aviation
Corps about a year ago. After special training at Georgia Tech, he was sent to Taliaferro Field, Fort Worth, Tex.,
where he has been flying for four months. In an airplane collision about noon, October 5, he was fatally wounded.
His body has been sent to his home in Easley, S. C., where it will be interred Monday or Tuesday.
Everyone who knew Lieutenant Smith admired him and recognized him as a great leader. The heartfelt sympathy of every Davidson
man is extended to the mother and relatives of our beloved alumnus.

ALL MUSICIANS URGED TO JOIN ORCHESTRA

The prospects for an Orchestra and Glee Club are not so encouraging this year, but the manager of the Glee
Club hopes that both can be worked into good shape. Everybody that can play any kind of instrument or sing
at all is urged to come out to the practices and make this club a success. The old members who
have returned are M. A. Tremain, F. M. Thompson, and A. M. Spann, in the Orchestra; and G. D. Green,
C. R. Vance, and B. E. Shields, in the Glee Club. All the old members of the Guitar and Mandolin
Club are back, and everybody that can play either of these instruments is urged to join them.

Football Prospects Seem to be Good

Davidson will have a football team this year and will carry out part of her schedule. This is the good
news that greeted every Davidson man and every Davidson admirer when college opened. The government has installed a Student Army
Training Corps at Davidson, but we are glad that Uncle Sam realizes the importance of athletic training for his soldiers
and has made provision for football in the course of training. Our college athletes in France have demonstrated their ability
and have entered the fight fine specimens physically and with the same spirit and determination displayed on the gridiron. The
United States realizes the true value of athletics and we are more than glad that she has provided for football
this year in her Student Army Training Corps.

It thrills the heart of every true sportsman and fills the heart of every Davidson man with pride to recall
the brilliant success of Davidson’s team last season. And yet, when we remember that at the beginning of last season
Coach Fetzer had only the same number of old men back as this year around which to build his team,
it makes us hopeful. The success of last year’s team was due in many ways to Coach Fetzer, and with
"Coach" back this year we are confident of another successful season. Captain A. C. Burns, W. B. Crouch, Spann, and
McMasters are the "D" men back who will form the nucleus of this year’s team. With this quartet of the
"old squad" back, Davidson will more than live up to her former records. Many of last year's reserves are back
in the game and among them L. L. McAlister, S. M. Brady, C. B. Robson, P. G. Sutton, Miley, L.
W. Fischel, Thompson, and F. L. White. A large number of new men are out and from the present prospects
this material will be a valuable asset to the team. Johnson, a former Fishburne man, is showing up well in
the backfield.

Mr. and Mrs. Wright, of Winston-Salem, the parents of Forest Wright, motored to Davidson last Monday. They were accompanied by
Mrs. D. C. Lilly, the mother of E. G. Lilly, '19.

M. Chalmers, '20, Mrs. J. T. Chalmers, mother of D., spent Friday in Davidson.

FELLOWS -- Patronize Our ADVERTISERS -- They Make THE DAVIDSONIAN Possible
