= The DAVIDSONIAN, April 24, 1918

Alumni Notes

DAVIDSON SERVICE FLAG. DAVIDSON'S HONOR ROLL.

J. L. Fountain, Jr., ex-'19, Navy, U. S. S. Maine. Address: via New York.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, Jr., '05, Religious Work Director, Y. M. C. A., Camp Greene, Charlotte, N.C.

H. W. Whitlock, '11.

W. A. K. Crowell, ex-'19, Cavalry, 13 Ret. Co., 4th Platoon, 1st Squad, Fort Thomas, Ky.

T. J. Hutcheson, '09, Chaplain.

H. A. Campbell, '17, 22 Co., 156 Depot Brigade, Camp Jackson, Columbia, S.C.

Previously reported 340
This week ............ 6
Total .............. 396

Word has been received that W. L. Law, N. L. Armstead, A. R. McNeil, I. A. Mullen, are in the same company in France. They are all cadets in Aviation Service.

According to the invitation to commencement exercises at Union Theological Seminary, the following Davidson men will receive diplomas next month: J. A. Boyd, P. P. Johnston, Jr., C. L. King, L. B. Lyerly, S. McElroy, D. McLean McGeachy, R. L. McKinnon, W. A. Nicholson, E. B. Thompson, W. C. Williams.

A. C. Wood, ex-'18, has been transferred to Battery "I," 319th Field Artillery, Camp Gordon, Ga.

C. A. Potts, ex-'10, is stationed with 30th Co., 156 Depot Brigade, Camp Jackson, S.C.

The most accurate information available states that the rumor of the death of J. K. Morrison, ex-'16, is false. He is in Aviation service in France.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, Jr., '05, was called to the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. He has been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Knoxville, Tenn. He gave up this work to become Religious Work Director of the Y. M. C. A. at Camp Greene, and will take up his new duties immediately.

Dr. C. A. Cornelson, '09, has been transferred from Washington (State) University to the English Department at Wabash, Indiana.

Rev. I. S. McElroy, ex-'12, is engaged to be married to Miss Alice Wilson, of Baltimore. Miss Wilson is the niece of President Wilson, and the groom will graduate from Union next month.

ATHLETIC NOTES

"It never rains, but it pours." No truer example of this old proverb was ever brought to our attention than Saturday’s "liquid" weather propounded to those of us who were going to Gastonia to see the "Wildcat" and "Farmer" fray. All Friday night the rain came down and when Saturday morning brought more rain—and necessarily plenty of mud—Coach decided that the safest (at any rate the driest) plan would be to forego his plans of journeying to Gastonia. To say the fellows were disappointed would be putting it mildly; and when we consider the number of men who decided not to prepare for Saturday's recitations as they were going to be "off the Hill" the thing amounts almost to a disaster. Plans are on foot to arrange another game with A. & E. in Gastonia on May 4, and here’s hoping they materialize. We must have a chance to even up for a certain football game we have in mind.

Clemson was forced to cancel last week; so the team had to be real patriotic and have a "gameless" week. Elon comes over for two games this week and the gossips say that she has a dangerous bunch. South CarolinaAlso comes up this week to settle up that series which now stands “one-all.” Ralph Flowers has left school. His eyes have been troubling him all the term and he was forced to take the doctor's advice and give them a rest. This will sound odd to some of the pitchers he has faced this year, and likewise to some of the football teams of last fall. His eyes seemed good enough then to pick out a hole in the line where, to the outside observer, there wasn't any hole. Some of the colleges in Virginia will probably also remember instances when “Buck” dropped several nice ones through the basketball goals in their gyms. In losing Flowers we have lost our best athlete. However, our loss is only temporary. He is expecting to return next year and we lose him only for the few remaining baseball games. This, however, is a decided loss, and it is a problem as to Coach's choice for the left field position for the remaining games. We will hazard the guess that Georgia Tech and the rest of those big Southern colleges have decided that the Presbyterian “Wildcats” can do something besides play football. We have recently sent both baseball and track teams down there that have demanded attention. “Georgia Tech 62—first place; Davidson 32—second place.” Not so bad for a track meet, and when you consider the fact that Georgia Tech entered seventeen men and Davidson only five it sounds “mighty good!”

BOOKS-STATIONERY-NOVELTIES
Brockmann’s
224 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Wallace-Brough Co.
Have just received a new line of Trimmings, Flowers, Quills and Neckwear

Musical Homes Are Happy Homes
Refinement and culture naturally go with the love of music. Joy and brightness and laughter are found where there is the STIEFF PIANO. Ask about our Easy Payment Factory-to-Home Plan.
STIEFF
219 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Booe’s Market & DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., C. A. Potts, Asst. Cash.

Fry & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix ’Em Shoes
TRY US

Faculty Students
Have You Any Typewriting to Be Done?
See Bellingrath, 69 Chambers

The Bank of Davidson
The Service for the Discriminating Student

The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South's Largest Exclusive Dyers and Cleaners
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. A. THAMES,
Fresh Meats, Fish and Oysters
TELEPHONE 790-4
Phones 441-2
8 North

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, Agents
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH-CLASS SHOES?
Complete line of High-Grade Men’s Footgear, at lowest Prices to be found on the Hill
Gilmer-Moore Company

We have opened up a line of General Merchandise Especially Groceries And we extend to you a CORDIAL INVITATION to come to see us
R. S. Johnston Co.

SCHOLTZ THE FLORIST, Inc.
Tryon St., Charlotte, N. C.