4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

On to Charlotte

DEFEATED by Washington & Lee, Georgia Tech, we now face perhaps the most interesting game of the state. On Saturday, November 8, Davidson will meet State College on Wearn Field, Charlotte. The Davidson College band, battalion, and student body will be there 100 per cent. Our spirit is the fighting spirit—it has been that all along. The teams that have won from us have realized after the game that they played a man’s sized game and had fought for every inch they won.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
By comparative scores, the above-named colleges have won. Outweighed many pounds to the man, our warriors have played gamely. The student body is proud of you. We are behind you one thousand per cent. The season is not over, in fact, the climax has not been reached. Are we downhearted? No. Fellows, with all the pep, enthusiasm, and vivacity, let’s go to Charlotte and take the game Saturday; then the 15th on to Winston and victory from the University. Are we going to win? I'll say we are.

Per copy: $1.25

THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chief
J. E. CASSELL, '20

Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr.

Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK

Sporting Editor
H. C. CALHOUN

Alumni Editor
C. J. MAHOOD

Literary Editor
J. M. GILMER

Official Photographer
B. H. McILWAINE

REPORTERS’ CLUB
N. BOOKER
W. P. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. HARD
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Additional reporters: E. A. King, W. A. Gamble, J. P. Booth, W. C. Smith, J. Brady, G. W. Davidson, C. F. Cathoua, H. H. Morris.

Business Manager
A. M. MITCHELL

Assistant Manager
A. P. Ormond

Circulation Manager
J. C. Bailey

Assistant Managers
R. F. Davis, A. P. Fricker, W. H. Hacrel

OPEN FORUM
(Editor’s Note—Anyone wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

The Importance of a Class Ring

College men may be picked from any crowd by watching their actions and manners; most college men, especially those of Davidson, are polite and gentlemanly in company either with ladies or gentlemen. They wear an educated appearance and are pointed out by all men as college graduates. Davidson men are especially known by these characteristics. Every college man should wear the insignia of his college, so that men will know where he spent the best four years of his life seeking a liberal knowledge of learning. This insignia should be either on a ring or a pin. Davidson men have no ring. Each class should have a standard ring. This precedent has not been set in the past. Why not let the present Senior class adopt a ring that will be a credit to the college and one that everybody will take pleasure in wearing? Why should we have a college ring? Most colleges do have a class ring. The ring helps to advertise the college. It would help to draw men closer to their alma mater after they left college. Every time a fellow looked at his ring he would think about old D. C. There is not a doubt but that Davidson needs a standard ring. Why not give the present Senior class the privilege of making a good selection of such a ring to be used in the succeeding years by all D. C. men?

A. P. Ormond, A. C. Ormond, J. C. Bailey, Russell, R. F. Davis, A. P. Fricker, W. H. Hacrel.

EDITORIAL
“On to Charlotte” the 8th. Keep saving and be in Winston on the 15th. There was one hundred per cent down to see the team off last Friday night. Let’s be there and go with them Saturday. Would it not have been appropriate for the band to have played “Marching Thru Georgia” at the basketball game Friday night?

Things That Should Make Every Davidson Man Feel Proud

“The visitors fought cleanly and gamely, going down in defeat without a stain and upholding the best traditions of the institution whose reputation for sportsmanship is unexcelled in the South.”—Atlanta Journal.

“The plucky preachers were outweighed and outplayed but they fought furiously all the way—I have yet to see a Davidson team that didn’t.”—Sunday American.

Long before I ever entered Davidson I had heard of the Davidson spirit. I did not grasp the full meaning of this until I became a student. During my undergraduate days and since I have left college I have learned to understand that the spirit at Davidson is envied by students and alumni of other colleges and universities. They will confess to you that they are not as loyal to their college as Davidson men are; they will tell you that somehow or other their alumni and students will not co-operate as Davidson men do; and I have heard many times this remark from alumni of other schools: “My goodness, if we just had the pep and fight that Davidson teams have we would be world beaters.” Davidson teams in the past have always possessed this fighting spirit. I have seen it in evidence many times on the football field when they have lined up against a team representing a school of a thousand students, outweighed ten or fifteen pounds to the man, and come out of the game victorious, much to the surprise of all outsiders, but not to the surprise of all Davidson men who knew that when a Davidson team takes the field they are accompanied by the Davidson spirit. It hurts me to say that for the first time since I can remember this spirit is not universally in evidence. I wouldn't believe things that I have heard lately. Davidson men are found everywhere. They have the same spirit, the spirit that wins games.—Chas. Taylor, ‘09.

It’s Up to You

SENIORS, heretofore Senior speaking has not been up to par with Junior speaking. We all admit that it has not. Where does the trouble lie? With us of the Senior class. In other things the class has led. She is above the ordinary class in many ways, why shouldn’t we go down in the annals of Davidson's history as standing for the best in everything—to be satisfied with nothing less. We can do it. One of the many ways by which we may accomplish the above end is to make our speaking the best. First, choose a good subject; second, spend some time in writing it, and above all learn it. Fellow-members of '20, it’s up to us to give the present student body a really good speaking.

Speak

It has been a long-established custom on the Davidson campus to greet everyone with a cheery “Hello.” The importance of this simple custom cannot be overestimated. From it is derived much of that fine quality—the Davidson spirit. Yet quite a number of instances have been noted that freshmen—yes, even upperclassmen,Pass along the campus without showing the slightest recognition of other Davidson men. Freshmen, don’t you feel good when someone greets you with a cordial and hearty “Hello?” Then the least you can do is to return this greeting. Do you find it difficult to say “Hello” to your fellow students? If so, resolve today to force yourself to speak to everyone. You will be surprised at the rapidity with which the mere words change into expressions of genuine feeling and interest.

You of the upper classes, have you done your share to promote this time-honored spirit of friendliness? When a freshman has murmured a half-audible greeting, have you passed him by in silence, leaving him too discouraged to try again? Remember this always, the freshmen follow the example of their upperclassmen, be it for good or for evil. We are all friends on the campus, and to harbor such a spirit as this; I think that the sooner these men leave Davidson the better off the college will be.

The biggest games of the season to Davidson men are yet to be played, the State College and Carolina games. Let's get busy and win those games. Let every man who ever kicked a football don his football togs and go out and say: “I am going out on the field to help. I may not make the team, but I can help give some other fellow practice who needs it and who is on the team and who will help win these games for us." I believe that if forty men who had never been on the field before would do this, some star would be discovered or maybe several stars who would help win these games for us. I remember one man who came out in the middle of the season at Davidson and who had never played a football game before in his life. Nobody thought that his appearance would help any, but the call went out for some new men and he answered the call. He played in the last two games and won the biggest game of the season by catching a fumbled ball and side-stepping half the other team, racing some forty yards for a touchdown. Was his coming out worthwhile? Did he have the Davidson spirit? I leave this for you fellows to decide.

Yours for Davidson,
Alumnus, 1913.

Should the Band Receive Any Credit?

“Every man should be rewarded according to his labor.” How about our band? Are they to be compensated for their work, or is Davidson to take all their work, time, trouble, and perseverance and merely say “Thank you?" The old college now has a band to be proud of. In a few weeks, it has been trained and drilled until it can put up a creditable showing before anyone. The writer heard the State College band at the State College and Carolina game and is glad to say that our band would compare very favorably with theirs.

Did you ever stop to think just how much a band means to a college in keeping up the old pep? When was there ever so much college spirit displayed here as on Friday night when the team left? The yells, the shouts, and the band. Well, it all was literally inspiring and the cause of it all—the band. We have sent teams off before, yes, to play Ga. Tech, but we never had this kind of pep before, unless we consider the A. and B. game of basketball in the S. A. T. C. Now why not give these men the same credit toward graduation that the other members of the R. O. T. C. get? Why not remunerate them for their toils? Surely they do as much work as those drilling, and immeasurably more for the college. Take for example the band leader. He gives at least ten hours of work per week, besides his energy and talent. Shall this perseverance and self-sacrifice go unrewarded?

The band makes its first official appearance—its debut—Saturday. Let's all watch it, and stand behind it. “Long Live the Band.”

Typo, '20.

A Warning

Someone with a poetical imagination has said that “Music hath charms to soothe the savage,” and no one doubts the aesthetical value of music; but as the wise old Solomon has said: “There is a time for all things.” We are grateful for the apparent possibilities of a real brass band this year—a new feature in college life at Davidson—but we do not need solos from its aspiring members in the dormitories between the hours of 8 and 12 p.m. “A hint to the wise is sufficient.”

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor's Note: ‘The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

RUTGERS COLLEGE.
The swimming pool has been opened up and indications are that Rutgers will have the strongest team in the coming tank contests. Plans are underway to turn out a water-polo team which will be a new feature—The Targum.

EMORY AND HENRY.
Dr. John C. Orr is the new college chaplain. He is a native of Lee County, Virginia, and is a product of Vanderbilt University. Dr. Orr is to teach Bible at both Emory and Henry and Martha Washington.—The Weekly Bulletin.

UNIVERSITY OF S. CAROLINA.
Intelligence tests similar to those given by the United States government in examining men for the army are now being given to the freshmen at the University of South Carolina. This is given to properly classify the students.—The Gamecock.

FURMAN UNIVERSITY.
The students at Furman are debating the question of having their mail delivered to their rooms. For a small sum, letter containers could be put upon every door in the dormitories, and then some college student could be secured to sort and deliver the entire amount of mail—The Furman Hornet.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
After two days’ grace granted the freshmen to learn their songs, they feel confident of surviving the song test. The vigilance committee will award either a green card, certifying that the exam has been passed, or the customary dose of iodine will be put on their hands in case of failure—Columbia Spectator.

UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE.
The university string orchestra is to be organized soon and will only include ten members. This is to be united with the glee club in giving concerts.—Orange and White.

UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI.
The “Co-Eds” are to be congratulated on being able to form a literary society this year—The Mississippian.

WOMAN'S COLLEGE OF ALA.
A holiday announcement at W. C. A. creates more excitement in the dining room now than ice cream, according to Wo-Co-Ala. News.

WINTHROP COLLEGE.
Recently the students challenged the faculty for a game of hockey. However, the student team met its match and the score still stands 2 to 2—Winthrop Weekly News.

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (TEXAS)
The students at Baylor have to pay poll tax in order to be able to represent the university in any athletic event, according to the constitution of the Student Self-Government Association.—The Lariat.