THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

Davidson Wins.

Shepherd........ FB........ Allan

Score by quarters:
Davidson ............... 000 7—7
Carolina ............... 0000—0

Davidson's possession on Carolina’s 45-yard line. Time of quarters: 12, 13, 12, 13.

Third Quarter.

Spann kicked 43 yards to Goodman, who returned 5. Allen hit center for 3 yards. B. Smith gained 3 off
left tackle. Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 45-yard line. McAlister made 5 around left end. Spann added another thru center. McAlister
made first down with 2 yards thru center.

Davidson's ball on Carolina's 35-yard line. Black made 2 yards off right tackle. Shepherd hit the same spot for 3
yards. Black then tore thru Carolina's line for 7 yards and first down. Spann made a yard around right end.
Shepherd went over left guard for a yard. McAlister made 3 around left end. Time out for Carolina. Black lost
a yard.

Carolina's ball on her own 20-yard line. Timmons failed to gain thru center. Goodman punted 38 yards to Black, who
returned 8. Davidson's ball on 50-yard line. Black made 5 yards around right end. Cassell substituted for Black. Spann failed
to gain around left end. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. McAlister failed to gain off right tackle. Cassell punted 30
yards to Allen, who was downed in his tracks.

Carolina's ball on her own 20-yard line. B. Smith made 3 yards around right end. Goodman punted 35 yards to
Spann. Davidson's ball on her own 42-yard line. Spann went thru center for 10 yards, but Davidson was penalized 15
yards for holding. Spann was unable to gain around right end. McAlister failed to gain around left end. Spann was
again unable to gain around right end.

Fourth Quarter.

Davidson's ball on her own 27-yard line.

(Continued from Page 1)

“And the nights shall be filled with howling,
And the wasps that infest the day
Shall unflop their wings like the jaybirds
For they've come, and come to stay.”

The poet never sang. But had he been present at a melee which was pulled off in Georgia just as
October 15 croaked and the next day (October 16) was born, he would have audited (Latin men please interpret) a
distressing scene. Heard is right; for the lights had gone out, to goodness known where. Liston! and a wasp had
hand-to-stings combat and no one was left to tell the tale except Liston—and the wasp. That’s all that happened.

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Everybody looks pleased when you've enjoyed the Peanut Parcher—this Fall.

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.

Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.

Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.

Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

The more you applaud at a Lyceum the more you get for your money. The more you boost the Peanut
Parcher—go on and finish it for yourself.

There's no limit—everything you fancy in the cut or style, color or decoration of your clothes. We have some decided
innovations you'll like to look at, and to wear. Fall overcoats, too, with style of their own that you can
own for $25.

Attention, College Boys! A new line of Stetson, No-Name, Vanity and Belk Hats at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00 and $7.00. College
boys’ skirt model suits, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50.

Dr. Douglas: “Mr. McKachern, you had better wake up.”
Mr. McEachern (arousing from slumber on physics class): “I don't believe I know, Doctor.”

The Scrub team sure has the pep. Two of its members struggled with each other for over a minute, over
the ball, each thinking the other was a varsity man.Kindergarten Klass organized in line. Fourth down and 15 to go.
Last week, Meachum and Morris matched. Timmons fell on the ball on Carolina's 30-yard line. Belk Brothers are pleased to
announce Silk Half-Hose in all colors at 59c, 85c, and 90c. Black is substituted for McAlister. Allen made a yard
through center. A. P. Ormand entertained the Law class at its second meeting last week with a very thrilling discourse
on watermelon stealing. Another prominent member of the student body will probably be called on to elucidate on pear picking
at an early date. For neatness and durability, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services
of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. Brockington. We are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and
designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more
colors.

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents

Black took 2 yards over right tackle but failed to gain the next time. On the next play, however, Black
tore through right tackle for 6 yards. Shepherd then hit right tackle for 8 yards and first down. Davidson's ball
on their own 36-yard line. Black made 3 yards off right tackle. Cassell added 2 over left tackle and 3
over right tackle. Black then ripped a hole in Carolina’s line, and with several men hanging on to him, went
for 20 yards before he was stopped. Time out for Carolina—Timmons, ball on Carolina’s 16-yard line. Black made 8 over
left tackle. Davidson penalized 5 yards, offside. Shepherd made 3 yards over left tackle and Black added 8 over left
tackle. T. McMillan substituted for Lightsey. Spann circled right end for 22 yards and a touchdown. Cassell kicked goal. Worth
substituted for Miley. Cassell kicked off 35 yards to B. Smith, who returned 10 yards. Timmons made 3 through center.
Goodman failed to gain through center. Game ended with the ball in Carolina’s possession on her own 38-yard line. Score:
Davidson, 7; Carolina, 0.

Davidson. Position. Carolina.
Miley........... LE . . .Quattlebaum
Hammett... LT..... Goodman
Romefelt........ LG...... Thomas
Bray............. C...... E. Smith
Davis........... RG..... Lightsey
McMaster...... RT ..M. McMillan
Douglas........ RE.... Brockington
Spann.......... QB...... Timmons
Black........... LH...... Skinner

Bill Roberts, explaining a Chemistry experiment: “Well, zinc, you see zinc’s oxidation...” Big Miller’s Fresh brother recently arrived with the
College Bread. We never realized how good the singing talent attempting to reproduce in the halls of Georgia. J. Rooker,
the political science major, announces that in England a man must own a corn-crib, garage, smoke-house, and chicken-coop in order
to vote. Jim Boulware informed Dr. Douglas that in pulling a grade, the wheels of a locomotive revolve. This astounding
revelation caused a great sensation on the campus. Brice the Elder’s “Hey, Good-looking” bush is showing the marks of age
and suffering. Students are circulating a petition to quash it.

Justus on Public Speaking: “Genius is the air of fame.” Also note the following sentence which Coyte Hunter displayed on
the board at the same recitation: “He loved.”

AT THE COMMISSARY
Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
Value guaranteed. If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643
ORDERS SOLICITED
Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
