2 The DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1919

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
K. A. Woods... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts... Assignment Editor
The Staff:
B. I. Shield
S. W. McCoy
Laverty Flynn
W. M. Currie
E. G. Bills
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. P. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Craig

MANAGEMENT.
T. C. Stone... Business Manager
K. A. Turner... Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander... Assistant Manager
C. J. Matthews... Assistant Manager
J. P. Price... Assistant Manager

Reporters for this issue are:
A. R. Craig, B. B. Breitenhirst, A. R. Doubles, O. M. Pflugger, Jr., W. R. Booth, R. R. McIlwaine, I. G. Calhoun, I. B. Schenck, W. P. Cumming, C. I. Cunningham, W. W. Moore, V. H. Spence, G. L. Watson, Jr., T. F. Martin, and J. W. Phillips.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

LEST WE FORGET.

The greatest war the world has ever experienced is over. The leading statesmen of the victorious powers are now gathered at Versailles to discuss the most far-reaching and momentous peace terms in the history of civilization. The peoples of the world are relaxing their military and economic muscles; and, though still breathing hard from the recent struggle, have descended from the plane of unified ideals and intense purpose caused by the terrible strain of war. As the dust of battle settles, there stands out more clearly the supreme sacrifice of those of our fighting forces who laid down their lives for the cause. Let not the statesman in his ardor for national glory forget the Wounded and the Dead in settling the questions before him. God have mercy on the Politician, who causes the blood of the Soldier to have been shed in vain, by bringing about, through his selfishness and greed, a situation on the earth which would be apart from universal Justice and Righteousness. And the American heart may well glow with pride in that it has a representative in this Council of Nations who has not forgotten the Cause of Justice for which American boys have died.

Those of us who did not go feel a natural delicacy in speaking of our comrades who went, and fell. But it makes us all the more desirous of doing honor to them, and in so doing this issue of The Davidsonian, with the sincerest of esteem for the Fallen and the deepest of heartfelt sympathy for the loved ones left behind, is humbly dedicated as a memorial to the seventeen Davidson men who have died for God and country. We know that as a memorial it is not worthy, but in the end the real memorial is in the hearts of every man in the Davidson student body, and in the hearts of every Davidson alumnus in the world. Davidson is intensely proud of these men and will before long, we hope, show this esteem and honor by setting up a concrete memorial on the campus to their name.

Death came upon them in different ways, but we like to think of them all as lying peacefully on some green hill under a beautiful evening sky. We like to think of every living Davidson man standing on the hillside in reverent silence, with head uncovered. We like to think of a brief but beautiful service being conducted, followed by the military salute fired over the graves; and as the sun slowly sinks below the horizon and the red glow of evening fades away, and while the soldiers in the gathering stand at the salute, and the civilians with their hats covering their hearts, we like to think of taps being blown, and echoed softly in the distance by a second bugle. "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet."

Home From France

Participated in Three of the Big American Drives.

Lieut. Everett L. Booe, '12, has returned to his home here after about sixteen months’ service in the army. Entering the Second Officers’ Training Camp on August 27, 1917, he was sent across early in the spring of 1918, arriving at Brest, France, on April 6, 1918. He was in active service at the front for about four months, taking part in the Second Battle of the Marne, the St. Mihiel drive, and serving in the Argonne Forest. When asked if he had any narrow escapes, he replied that there was nothing but narrow escapes over there. Lieutenant Booe was in Paris for a short time but did not have any time for “sight-seeing.” After his four months' service at the front, he was sent back to this country as an instructor. He arrived over here October 13, 1918, and was sent to Camp Gordon.

Everett will long be remembered as one of Davidson's finest athletes. During his college course, he made the “D” with three stars in football, “D” and two stars in baseball, and a “D” in both basketball and track. After leaving here, he played baseball with the following teams: Petersburg (Virginia League), Wheeling, W. Va. (Central League), St. Paul (American Association), Indianapolis (Federal League), and with Pittsburgh in the National League.us vet, Lest we forget—lest we forget.”

THE ALL-ROUND MAN.

“Bob” Miles has not only proven himself a great stimulus as a Y leader on the campus, but he has been one of the greatest factors to encourage and assist in athletics. Why? Because his record as a graduate of Davidson in '14 shows that he took a leading part in athletics of every description. In those days when the spirit in class athletics was almost at its zenith, our secretary was a member of the baseball nine for two years. Nor did he stop here, for he played scrub football one year and class football another. In both these phases of college sport, he gave a good account of himself, but every athlete has his “hobby.” During the three years Mr. Miles was a student here, he was a member of the Varsity basketball quintet. This was his choice and in this, he starred. All those who participated in or witnessed the class games this season would infer this after seeing the pep and knowledge of the game which he displayed as a referee. As captain of the team in his Senior year, he showed his worth as a leader and the accounts of the contests of that season show what a remarkable record the “five” made. And although eight years have elapsed since the end of his college days at D.C., Bob Miles has convinced the students that he hasn't lost one ounce of pep and enthusiasm.

The Forum

MEMORIAL GATES SUGGESTED.

A suitable memorial to the Davidson men who have given their lives in the service of our country has been suggested by many on and off the campus. In every State in the Union, similar monuments are being erected in the honor of our noble dead, and we feel that those of our number who have offered up the supreme sacrifice should be remembered by the very best monument we can secure.

In making his suggestion, the writer would like to call your attention to Mr. John Nolan's plan for Greater Davidson. In this plan, Mr. Nolan left a place for two gates situated just west of the Eu Hall and facing Main Street. This place offers an opportunity for beautifying the campus that should not be overlooked while plans are being made to erect a monument. It would also be conspicuous not only to the students of Davidson but also to the town people and persons traveling between Charlotte and Statesville.

The monument could be in the form of two gates with a semicircular seat between the two inner posts and extending to the rear about eight feet. At the rear of this seat could be located a tablet of suitable size with the names of the men to whose honor the memorial had been erected. These gates should be the beginning of a long wall, which would extend the whole length of the front campus. Of course, this could not be all accomplished at once, but it could be added to each year until the wall and gates were completed. And then Davidson would have a monument that she could be justly proud of, and that would be worthy of the men for whom it was erected.

DAVIDSON WAR WORK MONEY NOW BEING COLLECTED

The results of the war work campaign, which was held in November 1918, were very favorable. They showed that the people all over the country were taking an interest in those organizations that were striving to make our soldiers comfortable and happy. Every person and organization was given a chance to show their interest in the War Work Campaign by subscribing to its upkeep. Davidson College stood at third place in the list of Southern colleges, with $7,200 pledged, which is an average of $27 per capita. Up to today, there has been paid in to Mr. Jackson, who is the collector for this college, $1,889. While these pledges are partly being paid every day, we shall have to hurry if all are paid in full by the specified time, which is March 10, 1919.

Rembrandt Studio
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WILL CONVINCE YOU,
275 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office
O. J. RADER, Proprietor

TYPEWRITING
A. P. ORMOND

We Knock the Spots Out
The Charlotte Steam Laundry
KEY and McCASKILL, Agts.
We'll get 'em on Monday Nights

For information, address
W.W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholis, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.