O. P. Hart opines that the December issue of the Davidson College Magazine will be out about December first.

* * *

Major de Rohan, U. S. A., P. M. G. and T., at P. C. accompanied the football squad to Davidson.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A. G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts,

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D., President

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
No. 30 and 26 Chambers

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown’s Cafe.
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27

Devotional News.
How to Prove Reality of God Discussed by Dr. Harding

Sunday School at Cowan's in Flourishing Condition.

Among the thriving Sunday schools conducted by the students in the nearby schoolhouses is one conducted at Cowan’s. This center
of learning is about three miles down the Concord road, midway between Shearers Chapel and New Hope Baptist Church. Five
days in the week the boys and girls of the community gather in the schoolhouse for knowledge and on the
Sabbath they congregate for instruction in righteousness. The instructors who go out are C. N. Morrison, superintendent, and T. A.
Lacy, T. A. Freeman, and F. L. Brown, teachers. Despite the fact that Cowan’s is so near the other two
religious centers and that no services are held in the summer, the attendance has been good this fall and much
interest has been shown, both by the pupils and those who go out as teachers. C. N. Morrison is superintendent
of this school.

Talk an Impressive One—Many Helpful Suggestions Thrown Out

At the “Y” service last Sunday night Dr. Harding endeavored to show the students how to convince themselves of the
reality of God. He first pointed out fallacies in many common modes of reasoning, showing that a firm conviction could
not be based on mere commonly accepted doctrines, or the existence of a church, or reports of supernatural occurrences. He
also showed that mere reasoning is dangerous because it does not reckon with the infinite. He next said that God
could be approached either through the Bible or through everyday experiences. The Biblical proofs rest largely on historical evidence, fulfillment
of prophecy, and the writings of Paul. Then there are so many evidences of God in nature and everyday life
that every observant person is repeatedly confronted by the extreme probability of a God. “And moral certainty,” says the doctor,
“arises from balanced and cumulative probability.” He cautioned the students, however, that they should make their tests in an open-minded
manner and that they should not allow the presence of difficulties to stop them in their search. He closed with
the striking statement that a man has everything to gain and nothing to lose by belief in God, for if
there were a God they would thus gain all, whereas if there were not they would be no worse off
than the skeptics. The doctor certainly made a strong case of it, building up a very interesting and convincing chain
of argument which should be very valuable to anyone who will follow his advice.

Bible Classes.

That’s the stuff! Every dormitory on the hill showed an increase in the number at the Bible classes Sunday morning.
There are only three more Sundays before the holidays, so this good record should be continued. There’s plenty of room
for the rest of the fellows who were not there Sunday. The attendance was as follows:

Rumple: 25
West Side: 24
Watts:
First Floor: 13
Second Floor: 20
Third Floor: 16
Georgia:
First Floor: 12
Second Floor: 7
Third Floor: 7
Chambers: 60
North Wing: 33
South Wing: 41

Ministerial Band Holds Book Review.

On last Sunday afternoon the Ministerial band held a very interesting meeting. Three members of| Louisiana - - - -
- 10 48 the band had been appointed to give 71 brief reviews of helpful books. The Total - -
- - - - 208 books chosen were ones which were considered very good by those giving the reviews. Harrell
chose as his book “Victory Through Surrender,” by B. F. Mills. In giving the message of this book he said:
A full life comes only through a full and definite surrender of that life to God. Once this surrender is
made, have the faith to count this result accomplished, and it will be accomplished. Your faith will be tried, but
wait on God, and the victory will come. As an added attraction he showed that this was a short book,
and urged that every member present read it.

W. P. Cumming gave a review of “The Meaning of Faith,” by Fosdick. Of it he said: “This book brings
one a new and live faith in God. Every one of us ought to read it.” L. G. Calhoun selected
Churchill’s “The Inside of the Cup.” After telling parts of the story of this interesting book, he recommended it to
all present.

The meeting hour of the band was Sunday Schools. The fine weather Sunday afternoon boosted the attendance at the country
Sunday schools. However, Cowan's showed a very noticeable falling off. There were only four present, two teachers and two pupils.
The attendance at the different schools was as follows:

| Teachers | Total |
|-----------|-------|
| Shearer Chapel | 10 | 58 |
| Brawley’s | 4 | 58 |
| Mill | 4 | 54 |
| Caldwell | 6 | 62 |
| Oak Grove | 10 | 28 |
| Cowan’s | 2 | 4 |
| Cornelius | 5 | 41 |
| Total | 41 | 305 |

Mr. S. C. Farrior, ’12, and his charming wife, who was Miss Kitty McMullen, of China, are on a furlough;
they spent a few days in Davidson last week as the guests of Dr. J. Moore McConnell.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S. sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY
and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should
have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

W. J. RODDEY & COMPANY, Gen’l Agents Rock Hill, S. C.

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for
and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training
School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life
and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.”
We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and
then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a
result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS
That you can buy at the DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and Fixtures.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary
and at your service. He wants your business.

KEEP FIT
Sport is the royal road to health. We have everything essential for Football, Soccer, Basketball, Hockey, Skating and the Gym.

ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
Athletic Outfitters.
26 East 42d St. New York City
Write for our new catalog.
