6 Do You Attend the World Forum? Try it Once. Interesting Discussion On the Christian Welfare of Our Nation.

The World Forum meeting last Thursday evening was very enjoyable. Mr. Miles’ interpretation and remarks on the lesson were well worth the time of the thirty-five men present. The subject of the evening was a continuation of the subject, “The Call for a Christian Internationalism,” discussed in a previous meeting.

The first line of thought was that “We must Christianize all our International Contracts.” Our business with the outside world is unchristianized for it has been conducted on the principles of close bargain. This has been shown in the selling contracts for opium, rum, rubber, and the like. We must not only Christianize our business with the outside world but we must reform our press, for by it, people are influenced more than by any other thing. The Christian nations must try to mold their character as a Christian so as to make it count for the best in this world. The press is the best means of showing this character. We have no finer vehicle of friendliness towards other nations than the press. People judge nations by the individuals with which they come in contact. “You cannot make much headway for the Kingdom of God in the world unless you make corresponding gains here.”

The second line of discussion was that “We Must Actively Spread the Christian Message Throughout the World.” It is only the wide dissemination and acceptance of the Christian message that will render safe the various contracts of which we have been speaking. Unless the Christian message is carried throughout the world, peace among the nations will not become secure. For the message of Christ is characteristically a message of peace. The spreading of the Christian message tends to maintain peace because of its effect upon those who propagate it. The disseminating of the Christian doctrine and spirit throughout the world is necessary for the further reason that only then can our denials of Christ be offset.

Another line of thought that was advanced was the “Negro Condition in the South.” How to approach the question and by whom it is to be approached. Put yourself in the negro’s place. They resent the very word “negro,” and wherever he goes he has it thrust upon him that he is a negro. How would you feel? Negroes do not want social equality, but instead, they want to work out their own social problem. Before we can help them we shall have to change our attitude toward them. If the negroes were good enough to go to France to fight, they need some consideration.

These meetings are very instructive and it is sincerely hoped that every man on the hill will accept the public invitation to meet with them.

MOVIES FOR R. O. T. C. MEMBERS BEING SHOWN.

The R. O. T. C. has taken on a new feature. Moving picture films have been sent here by the government. The films are the different reels of “The Making of a Soldier,” gotten out by military authorities at Washington. Each reel pictures some different phase of the soldiers’ training, equipment, etc. Last Monday night three of these installments were shown down at the gym: “The Soldier's Pack,” “The Rifle Grenade,” and “The Browning Gun.” They are very instructive and interesting. It is expected that some more of this series will be shown in the near future.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 16, 1919

MINISTERIAL BAND TO HOLD

Diamond Dust Live Baseball News Here.

The supply of college pitchers this season seems to be unlimited. Joyner of North Carolina pitched a no-hit game against V. M. I. Taylor of Virginia held Carolina to two safeties. Philpot of Georgia has not been scored on in the four or five games he has pitched this season, and we have reason to believe that A. & E. and Elon are also well supplied in that department. By striking out fifteen men in Monday's game, Railroad Clark has shown he’s as good as the next one. Oglethorpe is also developing a star twirler in Turk who recently pitched four games on a five-game trip, winning three and striking out fifty-six men.Marlette, the Elon Witherspoon sang first base and coached pitcher in Monday’s game. We've finally succeeded in breaking the one-hit game spell, but still, a few more would come in handy. The Phillies touched Walter Johnson for more hits and more bases in the inning than they averaged on either Currie or Clark. After Virginia disposes of Carolina and Georgia, we'll have some idea where we stand after taking their measure. If Taylor pitches for Virginia and Philpot for Georgia, the fielders will have a holiday. Cap Johnson's timely double prevented the old whitewash from being applied, and Cassell’s triple broke the one-hit spell, so even though the final score wasn't exactly satisfactory, these hits weren’t wasted. We hope “Lazarus” Montgomery will read The Davidsonian for an account of the first game with Elon. “General Hall” and “Politician” Wiley were also prevented from giving their undivided attention. The argument always used in favor of class baseball is that it now and then develops a hidden genius as a dark horse. This amiable steed is evidently suffering from rheumatism and will arrive a little late.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Price, of Louisburg, W. Va., who for the past two months has been the guest of her daughter, Mrs. Wood, returned home yesterday.

Mrs. Calhoun, of New York, is visiting her sister, Miss Ellinwood, on North Main Street.

Col. and Mrs. Mueller have been called to Denver, Col., on account of the serious illness of Mrs. Mueller’s mother.

Lieut. Malcolm Rumple spent the weekend with his mother, Mrs. Martin.

Miss Essie Jetton, who has been ill for several weeks at the Charlotte Sanatorium, is gaining slowly.

Mr. and Mrs. John Hill are visiting a daughter at Bloomington, Ind.

A cable from Major J. W. MacConnell received by Prof. MacConnell on Saturday stated that he is now with Base Hospital No. 69 and has had no tidings from home in two months.

Retrospective

Grandmother—How well I remember the Old Virginia Reel we used to enjoy so much when I was a girl.
Incredulous Grandchild—Aw, g'wan grandma, they didn’t have movies when you was a girl.

ELECTIONS.

The regular officers for the first term of next year’s work are to be elected by the next meeting of the Ministerial Band. Every man on the hill who has any idea of such a lifework is urged to join in the fellowship of the band! It certainly won't turn you against your calling. You may rest assured that no attempt will be made to over-persuade you or to arbitrarily force you to take closer fellowship with those who have like feelings and their encouragement to “carry on” whatever you finally undertake. A joint meeting with the Volunteer Band is planned for the near future. The negro problem is to be studied this spring as a side light on the question of how to spend a college vacation. Every member was disappointed that Dr. Whaling did not arrive in time to address the band.

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

——-EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR----- 
ED. MELLON CO.

BOYS! Now that hot weather is here, keep cool by wearing Szoors-Schaefer Kool Kloths made especially for you, from the very latest patterns. We guarantee satisfaction on every deal.

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES No. 13 CHAMBERS

Passenger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte commencing Tuesday, April 1, 1919, on the following schedule, daily except Sunday:

Leave Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store 1:40 P.M. 6:00 P.M.
Leave Davidson, White Drug Co. 2:00 6:20
Leave Huntersville, Post Office 2:30 6:50
Arrive Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 3:30 7:30
Leave Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 4:00 P.M. 11:00 P.M.
Leave Huntersville, Post Office 5:00 12:00
Leave Davidson, White Drug Co. 5:30 12:30 A.M.
Arrive Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store 5:50 12:50

This gives the people along this route the opportunity to attend the shows and other amusements in Charlotte and return home that night. Your patronage solicited.

Respectfully,
Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com. Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.