The Davidsonian, May 7, 1919

ALUMNI NOTES

Major W. G. Summerville, ex-'16, will be on the Hill Thursday and Friday of this week. Major Summerville was one
of the most popular men in college during his four years here and was president of the Y. M. C.
A. during his last year. He left Davidson during his senior year and accepted an important banking position, but leaving
this position soon, he entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Virginia. Upon America’s entrance into the war, he answered the
call of his country and left the seminary. After his discharge, Major Summerville re-entered the seminary and is now in
his second year there. While here he will be glad to discuss any matters with ministerial students or any others
interested. An effort will be made to have Major Summerville address the ministerial band.

The following Davidson men are in the senior class at Union Seminary, Richmond, Virginia: K. F. M. Bain, F. F.
Baker, M. A. Boggs, J. E. Cousar, A. R. Howland, Norman Johnson, W. A. McIlwaine, D. M. Monroe, W. C.
Rourk, H. A. Scott, J. O. Williams, and D. C. Young. This makes a total of twelve Davidson men out
of a class of eighteen. In a student body of one hundred and five, including post-graduates, forty-two are from Davidson
College.

* * *

The senior class at Columbia Seminary contains the following Davidson men: B. K. Martin, F. J. Hay, and J. R.
McGregor. Out of a student body of forty-five, fourteen are from Davidson.

* * *

J. K. Fleming, ex-'20, who has been in service in France, was on the campus on Friday, accompanied by his
sisters. He will re-enter college in September.

* * *

J. T. Maddrey, ex-'19, was on the hill Monday afternoon. He expects to re-enter Davidson next September.

* * *

Dr. Porter Vinson, '09, will be married on the fourteenth of this month to Miss Lenore Dunlap, of Washington, Penn.

Rev. Arthur L. Forgartie, ex-'11, has been called as assistant pastor of the Government Street Church in Mobile, Ala.

* * *

John A. Scott, '11, who served as a first lieutenant in France from February 18, 1918, until the signing of
the armistice, has resumed the practice of law at Statesville, N.C. He is a brother of G. P. Scott, '19.

* * *

Ed. M. White, ex-'14, has landed in the United States after service in France with Base Hospital Unit 41.

* * *

C. W. Foreman, ex-'19, was in Davidson last week.

A few days ago the University of South Carolina dedicated twenty-eight trees to the memory of their twenty-eight alumni who
died in the service of their country. One of these trees was dedicated to the memory of one who, as
well as being an alumnus of that institution, is an alumnus of Davidson. This was James McCants Douglas, '10, of
Winnsboro, S. C. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Douglas entered the University of South Carolina, from which he received the
degree of LL.B. in 1913. Upon America’s entrance into the war, he immediately volunteered and entered the first officers’ training
camp at Oglethorpe, Ga. He received his commission as second lieutenant on August 15, 1917. He died at Fort Bliss
on October 12, 1918.

* * *

The Charlotte Observer of Sunday, May 4, carried a picture of Reid D. Cranford, ex-'17, of Davidson, N. C., who
died in the service of his country. He left college when America entered the war and volunteered in the Marine
Corps. He participated in the battle of Soissons, in which he was severely wounded. He died later as the result
of his wounds. In the “Memorial” issue of the Davidsonian, his name was given as missing. For a long time,
it was hoped that he would yet be found, but the dreaded news came at last that he had been
killed in action.

* * *

John Payne, '16, of Washington, N. C., has been discharged from the Army after serving several months in France with
the rank of lieutenant. He is now with the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and is stationed at Chattanooga, Tenn.

* * *

C. W. Worth, ex-'19, has received his discharge from the Army. He expects to return to Davidson next September.

J. C. P. Wearn, '13, first lieutenant, Medical Corps, has changed his address from U.S. A. General Hospital No. 9,
Lakewood, N. J., to The Walter Reed General Hospital, Takoma Park, D. C.

* * *

Dr. H. M. Marvin, '14, has gone to Turkey with a reconstructive unit, composed largely of doctors from the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital at Boston, where he recently completed his internship.

Maj. J. S. Simmons,'t1, is now chief of the laboratory service at the Walter Reed Hospital.

WORLD FORUM HOLDS LAST MEETING OF YEAR.

The last World Forum meeting of the year was held last Thursday evening. The theme discussed was “The Mobilization of
Christian Forces,” and in a sense, it was an appropriate study for the last meeting. The first line of thought
brought out was that the war has revealed the possibilities of thorough mobilization. Germany, at the beginning of the war,
stood easily first in completeness of preparation. The United States’ great genius for organization found its whole preparation and mobilization.
These hasty and thorough mobilizations stand as a shining example to us of what the Church can and should do.
It should mobilize its intelligence, leadership, manpower, and material resources.

The second line of discussion was that the world campaign of the Church deserves the full mobilization of Christian strength.
The dimensions of the undertaking and its difficulties are very great, the need of the undertaking is urgent, the aim
of the exploit is worthy, and it will be a great reward to those helping and honor to God. Nevertheless,
the Church can and is mobilizing its forces.

L. Bk. McALISTER NEW STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT.

The student body held its annual election Monday morning. After several votes, the supporters of Lacy McAllister won out. Currie
and Schenck were selected from the rising Junior Class as the coming vice presidents, and James Sprunt was elected secretary
and treasurer for the year 1919-1920.

Get Behind the Victory Loan
Let’s Make the Thing Go. It’s a Duty and Privilege.

Much effort is being put forth in order that the great Victory Loan might travel the same road of success
that the Liberty Loans traveled. While the war was going on, we, the people of the United States, had to
go right down into our pockets and lend our money to our government. As a result of our getting behind
our Army and Navy in this manner, the war has been brought to a close and we are again about
to enter upon an era of peace and happiness. The task of fighting has been accomplished. Now there is just
as great a one before us—that of reconstruction. This work cannot be successfully done unless the people stand behind the
government. And to stand behind the government means something more than merely being there in mind and spirit. It means
putting our money as well as our hearts into it. This task is not for only a few, but it
is for every person and organization.

The R. O. T. C. has entered into the fight to do its part. One of the primary objects of
the R. O. T. C. is the inculcation and fostering of patriotism. This is one way it is going to
show its patriotism. So let it be plainly understood that subscribing to the Victory Loan and giving the credit of
your loan to the R. O. T. C. does not affect in any way the sales in the towns and
cities. This campaign will not interfere with but is to assist in the subscription of local quotas. It is up
to every man, woman, and child to do his part. Remember that on the patriotic generosity of the American public
and its grateful appreciation of our victorious military and naval efforts depends the success of this, the final Victory Loan.
Up to date, the Davidson College R. O. T. C. Unit has credit for $3,100.00 of bonds. What will you
do? Finish the job?

Reproduced from a prose contest in which Honoria Squiggers, the child wonder of Squashville, Va., won by a neck:
“Two hearts that yearn
For love's sweet prison
Where his is her'n
And her'n is his'n.”

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others.
If I don't please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT
Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Gloves, Masks, Etc.
Catalogue on request
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

PHOTO FINISHING
R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING
R. S. Johnson Co.

FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

“Skirt Model Suits”
Just received 100 new Skirt Model Suits in plain blue, brown, and green, also fancy patterns marked special at $19.50,
$25.00, $27.50, and $29.50.
WE SELL IT FOR LESS
BELK BROTHERS

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN YET?
