The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board
D. W. Roberts ........ Editor-in-Chief
J. E. Cassell ........ Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr. ... Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck ........ Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill ...... Alumni Editor

THE STAFF
D. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

MANAGEMENT
C. J. Mathews ...... Business Manager
L. L. McAllister .... Circulation Manager
A. L. Currie ........ Assistant Manager
C. H. Long ......... Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson ....... Assistant Manager

REPORTER'S STAFF
S. H. Askew
R. R. Craig
T. H. Spence
M. A. Tremain
J. R. Walker
A. M. Mitchell
W. P. Cumming
J. M. Richards
J. P. Price
M. R. Doubles
O. M. Dugger, Jr.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

“GIVE US SOME MORE.”

Other music—Orchestral, Vocal or Instrumental—pleases different people at different times, but at what time, under what conditions, does not a
spirited band performance arouse the enthusiasm of all the people? Men, women and children, all alike, we rush to a
window or a street corner to hear the band. With quickened pulse beat and brightened eyes we mark time as
it files by. Yes, the fascination of martial music by the band on parade—operatic and popular music by the band
in the park or in the auditorium—is admitted on all sides. The charm never grows old.

Some pleasures have a temporary attraction. We like them for the time being, but fickle fancy tires of the sameness,
and, butterfly-like, flits to other objects of interest. Not so with the music of the band, especially when it happens
to be the town or college band—composed of home talent—known to one and all of the listeners, most of whom
have had a hand in its organization and support. Under such conditions the continued popularity of the band’s work is
doubly assured. Like the brook in Tennyson's poem, it “goes on forever.”

From the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Great Lakes to the Gulf, in every community the desire for a
brass band is manifesting itself today. Not only in cities, towns and villages, but college communities are also beginning everywhere
to organize their own bands.

A few days ago the Mooresville band rode up in front of White's drug store and began to play. Before
it had finished the first piece, men, women and children came running from every place imaginable. Like the rats of
Hamlin, every one of us was mysteriously drawn from our work by the magic music of our friends from Mooresville.
Many, after a long run, sat down on the campus to enjoy this music, but as soon as we had
settled ourselves and had caught our breath, the truck moved off. All the protests and pleadings of the crowds were
of no avail, for before the shouts of “Give us some more” had died away, the truck had disappeared around
the corner.

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 16, 1919

We want some more, is the sentiment of the entire community at Davidson. We can have it, if our own
boys will get together and organize a College Band. There is enough talent among the students here at Davidson to
organize a band which would be a credit to any student body. Why can we not have one? The only
qualifications necessary for one to join a band are first of all: He should be a music lover, and last,
he must be willing to devote sufficient time for practice. Experience will come through practice and study. And anyone, if
he likes music, with but few exceptions, can learn to play well if he will but study and practice.

Many of us well remember the open-air concerts which the Davidson Band gave last year in front of Elm Row.
The same thing can be repeated this year if we will get together. All those interested in a band for
Davidson and are willing to back it, will help in securing a band if they will write out their name
and the instrument which they can or office in box at The Davidsonian Chambers.

HOW TEXAS SCHOOL BOYS SAVED

Thirty thousand boys in the agricultural clubs of Texas are training themselves in thrift, business management and the serious work
of life. A recent investigation among these boys showed results that are reported in the Country Agent. It was found
that 67.4 per cent owned Thrift Stamps and War Savings certificates averaging $19.30 per boy, a total of $382,854 was
owned by 19,831 boys. In Liberty bonds, 15.4 per cent reported ownership averaging $59.32 or a total of $264,306 for
4,532 boys.

Twenty-six per cent have a bank account, averaging $64.83 each, or a total of $496,014.33 for 7,510 boys, while the
total value of the livestock or other property that has been accumulated since becoming a club member amounted to $1,317,993.18,
or $65.66 each for 20,073 boys, which is 68.2 per cent of the entire membership. On top of that, the
boys showed 66.6 per cent membership in the Red Cross, $2.88 each or a total of $56,511 for 19,622 boys.

Moral: if you want to be good business men, begin now.

RECRUITING FROM THE BOTTOM.

I have always thought that we overlook the fact that the real sources of strength in the community come from
the bottom. Do you find society renewing itself from the top? Don’t you find society renewing itself from the ranks
of unknown men? Do you look to the leading families to keep on leading you? Do you look to the
ranks of the men already established in authority to contribute sons to lead the next generation? They may—sometimes they do—but
you can’t count on them; and what you areconstantly depending on is the rise out of the ranks of unknown
men, the discovery of men whom you had passed by, the sudden disclosure of capacity you had not dreamed of,
the emergence of somebody from some place of which you had thought the least, of some man unanointed from on
high, to do the thing that the generation calls for. Who would have looked to Lincoln to save a nation?
Who that knew Lincoln when he was a lad and a youth and a young man—but all the while there
was springing up in him, as if he were connected with the very soil itself, the sap of a nation,
the vision of a great people, a sympathy so ingrained and intimate with the common run of men that he
was, like the people, impersonated, sublimated, touched with genius. And it is to such sources that we must always look.
No man can calculate the courses of genius, no man can foretell the leadership of nations. And so we must
see to it that the bottom is left open; we must see to it that the soil of the common
feeling, of the common consciousness, is always fertile and unclogged, for there can be no fruit unless the roots touch
the rich sources of life. And it seems to me that the schoolhouses dotted here, there, and everywhere, over the
great expanse of this nation, will some day prove to be the roots of that great tree of liberty which
shall spread for the sustenance and protection of all mankind.—Woodrow Wilson.

W. AND L. WILL ERECT AN ARCH. WHAT WILL WE ERECT?

As a monument to the sons of Washington and Lee who have engaged in the military service in the recent
war, Washington and Lee will construct a memorial arch of stately grandeur and magnificence. President Smith informs us that the
University has already purchased all the property in the neighborhood of the vehicle entrance to the University at a cost
of ten thousand dollars. The arch will have its entrance at the corner of Jefferson and Washington streets and will
extend all the way to the Lee memorial chapel. Stately columns corresponding to those which comprise the colonnade on the
campus will be erected on each side of the Avenue and these will be connected overhead by crescents. Then on
the columns will be engraved the names of all the men of Washington and Lee who have been in the
service. The central columns will contain the bronze plates on which will be engraved the names of the men who
died in the service. That this memorial will add beauty and splendor to the already majestic campus of Washington and
Lee is apparent at first sight. It is the beginning of a greater Washington and Lee and we hope that
before the movement is over the job will be well done. This arch will furnish a need which has long
been felt and no better opportunity could have presented itself. While we have not been definitely informed as to the
matter it is likely that an enthusiastic campaign will be launched to raise the necessary funds to erect this arch.
The greater part of the money will probably be donated by the University, part will come from the scattered alumni
and the student body will be given an opportunity to donate to the fund. When the movement is launched it
is hoped that every man on the campus will be imbued with a co-operative spirit and will do all in
his power to make the campaign a success.—Ring-Tum-Phi.

Washington and Lee has the spirit. What shall it be?

Lincoln said: “Die when I may, I want it said of me by those who know me best that I
always plucked a thistle and planted a flower where I thought a flower would grow.” Nothing finer could be said
of this generation of Americans than that it plucked the thistle of waste and planted in its stead the flower
of intelligent saving and investment in Thrift and War-Saving Stamps. A Thrift is threefold—wise buying, sane saving, and secure investment.
The man who starves that he may save is not thrifty; he is foolhardy; for he destroys his capacity to
earn and hence to save. The thrifty man spends wisely, and thereby increases his capacity to earn—and save. Spend wisely,
save intelligently, and put your savings into Thrift Stamps and W. S. S.

MADE TO FACULTY.

We are glad to report that both Dr. Lingle and Dr. MacConnell will be back next fall in charge of
their respective departments. A most suitable professor of English has been secured, subject to the action of the Board of
Trustees. There will probably be one or more new instructors in the most popular departments, but nothing definite can be
said about this at the present time.

PIANO TUNING

You notice those who play a Violin, Guitar or other string instrument always tighten the strings and get them in
tune every time they begin to play. For similar reasons pianos need regular tuning—though not so often. Once a year
is generally advised. The spring is the best season for this work—because the weather conditions are more uniform and favorable.
My work may be examined by the one you think is the best judge either at the Gym, the home
of Dr. Richards or Mr. J. R. Withers, Davidson. All interested telephone 17-J, or address me, P. O. Box, 12.

C. B. ALEXANDER

Brown’s Cafe

THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown’s Cafe

AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

IF YOU SHOT HIM

Come In and CELEBRATE

If You Got Shot

Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT

CAKES-CANDIES-DRINKS

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Watches and Clocks, Kodaks Film and Developing

W. S. HENDERSON

JEWELER

Booe’s Market

Fresh Meats At All Times
