REMAIN FOR FINALS PUSH THE VICTORY LOAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN Vol. VI.

Davidson Defeats Washington and Lee Heated Debate Over Government Ownership of R. Rs.

Dr. Arbuckle was the presiding officer of the debate between Washington and Lee and Davidson. He paid a tribute to the opposing team. "We have met them on the football gridiron, baseball diamond, and basketball court, but this is the first time we have met them in a debate." The affirmative was upheld by two gentlemen from Washington and Lee. The first speaker, W. T. Rushton, argued that the very nature of the railroads demanded government ownership. The commerce of our nation is in the control of the railroads, and it is too important for private ownership to control. "The very nation’s life depends on the railroads. The railroads were operated only where profit was forthcoming, and for that reason, a large part of the country is undeveloped for the want of railroads. This would not be the case under government ownership. Fifty percent of the railroads of the world, the U.S. exclusive, are owned and controlled by governments. The rebate system, which is very unjust, would be eliminated under government ownership. The fault of this system is that it tends to increase monopolies and to put small firms out of business."

The second gentleman of the affirmative, Mr. G. P. Wilson, argued that government ownership would be advantageous, first, from an economic standpoint. The railroads would be unified, thus destroying competition, consolidating terminals in large cities, making all railroad equipment standard, and correcting the pass system. It would prevent strikes. Business would be stabilized because there would be no congestion of traffic. Secondly, it would be advantageous from a political standpoint. It would eliminate the graft system and its evils. The political influence of the railroad corporations would be destroyed.

The negative was upheld by E. G. Lily and W. M. Currie, representatives of Davidson. Liston was alternate. Lilly, the first speaker of the negative, brought out three points: first, the government is not a good business organization. It is not the duty of the government to run the railroads, but it has for its duty the protection of life, liberty, and property. Secondly, government ownership is politically dangerous. The 2,000,000 employees of the railroads hold the balance of power. Third, government ownership is wrong in principle. It destroys initiative and enterprise.

W. M. Currie, in continuing the argument, brought out forcibly, first, that it has proved a failure in other countries. France has a government very much like the United States. One-fifth of French railroads are operated by the government, and this part lost money while the other part made money. Belgium, Italy, and Germany were cited. Secondly, fair regulation and fair legislation will correct this end. When the government took over the railroads, McAdoo ran it (Continued on Page 8)

Our “Y” Secretary Mr. “Bob” Miles A Brief Sketch of His College and Recent Activities.

It was Richmond College's loss and Davidson's gain when Robert W. Miles entered in the fall of 1908 as a sophomore. He was forward on the basketball team during his three years and captain in his senior year. He was also president and marshal of the Mumenean Literary Society while a senior. Among his other distinctions were the vice-presidency of the Athletic Association and membership on the first Student Council. He assisted in the composition of the present constitution of the student body.

On January 24, 1911, it was his misfortune to have his leg broken in a class football game. This both prevented him from graduating and put him in the hospital for a long time. He taught High School for two years after his recovery, and in 1914 entered Union Theological Seminary. While there, he displayed a remarkable capacity for work. He was superintendent of a Sunday School, and of the Richmond City Playgrounds, leader of a troop of Boy Scouts, also, meanwhile carrying on his studies at the Seminary and, as later developments lead us to believe, the courtship of Miss Dorothy Moomaw, of Roanoke, Va.

He went into Army Y. M. C. A. in August 1917, remaining at Camp Jackson until December. His marriage took place on December 6th of that same eventful year. He sailed for France on December 29, where he spent six months of service with the “doughboys.” He was invalided home on July 22, 1918. He was convalescent until November. After spending that month in Mississippi in the interests of the War Work Campaign, he came to Davidson. As the “Y” secretary, he has made campus life much more interesting for the past six months than it could possibly have been without him. His plans for the future will increase the attraction of a course at Davidson in no small measure, and the student body may well congrat- (Continued on Page 8)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 7, 1919.

Trinity Wins From Wildcats Inning Game 2 to 1. Clarke Twirls Fine Ball.

Trinity took advantage of Davidson's unlucky number, the thirteenth inning, to break the final clinch in the game at Durham last Tuesday. The whole game was “a great exhibition of the grand old game as played by college boys.” Caviness, of Trinity, had a little the better argument in the hard pitching duel, striking out 13 batters in the 13 innings and permitting only three clean hits. Clarke, opposing him, pitched a hard game but was not at his best. TrinityScored first in the second when Carson singled and stole second, crossing the plate when Wannamaker hit a long one to left field. She scored her second in the thirteenth when Wannamaker singled on an easy grounder to the third baseman, who passed it up as a foul. Then Edens came along with his hefty smash between center and right field and the game was over. Davidson scored in the sixth. Miller started the ball rolling with a single. Cassell hit to the pitcher, who threw wild to second, Miller in the meantime gaining third. A moment later when Caviness threw one over the catcher, he crossed the plate with the run that tied the game until the ill-omened thirteenth. Each team had one or two chances to win the game but failed to put them over. Davidson had a good chance in the fifth. McArn, with one down, walked. Sample hit to short, who threw McArn out at second, Sample running safe at first. Clarke came along with a double, Sample being held at third, but Spann’s straight to short closed the deal. Again, Ratchford started the ninth and was safe on first but hesitating too long on a catcher's fumble, was thrown out at second. The third inning showed an opening for Trinity. Hathaway singled and was sacrificed around to third but failed to reach home. Their next prospect came in the sixth. Cole singled and went to second on a fumble, which the fielder dropped. Then the third baseman stopped a drive and doubled Cole off second. Again, in the eighth, Caviness made second on a fielder's error. Southard, running for Caviness, was sacrificed to third, but was nailed at the plate trying to score on a flyout to left. Further details may be obtained from the box score:

Davidson
AB R H PO A E
Spann, cf. ........ 6 0 0 1 0 0
Miller, lf. ........ 6 1 1 5 0 1
Cassell, 3b. ...... 5 0 0 3 3 0
Ratchford, 2b. .... 5 0 1 3 4 0
Johnson, c. ....... 5 0 0 7 1 0
Richards, rf. ..... 5 0 0 3 0 1
McArn, 1b. ....... 3 0 0 10 0 0
Sample, ss. ....... 5 0 1 2 3 2
Clarke, p. ........ 5 0 1 0 6 0
Totals .......... 45 1 3 36 18 4

Trinity
AB R H PO A E
McArthur, cf. .... 4 0 0 3 0 0
Hathaway, lf. .... 5 0 1 4 0 0
Carver, 2b. ....... 5 0 1 4 2 0

(Continued on page 5)

R. O. T. C. Impressed No. 27 Inspector Favorably
Davidson Battalion Rated High. News About Summer Camps.

All Davidsonians will be gratified to learn that Colonel Conway, the district inspector, has both officially and personally notified Colonel Mueller that he was very much pleased with the showing made by the cadets of the Davidson Battalion. Although Colonel Mueller himself was unable to be present at the inspection, Cadet Major Hall had such a thorough program made out and this was so well executed by the cadets that the inspector was able to complete his duties here within two hours instead of remaining a whole day as he had planned to do. Much to the delight of the students, rain put a stop to drill for three days after the visit of Colonel Conway. During that time, however, some very interesting announcements were made. Among these came definite information about the summer training camp. For this district, Camp Lee, Virginia, is to be the sphere of action for such members of the R. O. T. C. as wish to take the additional training. The minimum age required for attendance is 16 years. Railroad fare at the rate of 3.42 cents per mile will be furnished for the trip from Davidson to Camp Lee and for the return to the home of the student, provided that this point is not at a greater distance from the camp than Davidson is. The camp proper will begin on the 21st of June and continue through the second day of August. There will be no commutation for the work done during this time, but students will be given the same credit for it as for a year’s training in an R. O. T. C. unit. If Congress passes a much hoped-for bill, these men will receive additional pay for their work next year. The cadets will be interested to know that Colonel Mueller has written to the Committee on Education and Special Training to recommend that all members of the R. O. T. C. be paid a definite sum every month. He believes that such a policy will bring about a larger attendance at the colleges of our country and at the same time will increase interest in the drilling. He suggests that all cadets taking the basic or first two years’ work shall receive $10 a month. For those taking the advanced courses, that is a third or fourth year of R. O. T. C. work, he would have the following salaries paid: Majors and captains, $20; lieutenants, $18; first sergeants, $16; sergeants, $15; corporals, $14; privates, $12. There has been an unaccountable delay in the arrival of the long-expected rifles. These have been ordered from the Augusta Arsenal and all possible steps are being taken to expedite their shipment. The “pup” tents have been received and were issued during the latter part of last week. The big yell at one of the recent ball games may be accounted for by the statement made by Jimmie McQueen: “All freshmen who don’t yell now will yell later.”

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DEFEAT MERCER AND W. & L.