Mr. Ostrum Discusses The Japanese Problem

Returned Missionary Spends Two Days On Campus.

The students of Davidson were fortunate in having Mr. H. C. Ostrum with them for a day and night of last week. Mr. Ostrum was for some time a missionary in Japan, being stationed at Tokushima, but poor health compelled him to return to this country. For the past two years, he has been Secretary of the Laymen's Missionary Movement of the Southern Presbyterian Church and is doing very important work in America; however, he hopes that he will soon be able to return to Japan.

On Tuesday night, Mr. Ostrum spoke to the Student Forum at the gymnasium. After speaking briefly of his work in Japan, Mr. Ostrum outlined the program which has been adopted by most of the Protestant Churches of America. According to this plan, the Home and Foreign Mission Boards of all these churches will combine in a drive somewhat like that made during the United War Work Campaign. Conferences will be held in all the leading cities of the country, and it is hoped that nearly a billion dollars can be raised within the next twelve months.

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Ostrum spoke briefly to the student body at chapel. He showed that Japan is already one of the most influential nations in the world and that she is steadily increasing in power. If we can win Japan for Christ, the entire Orient will follow. He appealed to all the students to consider whether they would not devote their lives to Christianizing that country. That evening, he delivered a short address before the Volunteer Band. He pointed out some of the ways of keeping up a live band and specially urged that all the Volunteers should keep up with news of missionary interest. In closing, he suggested that a Missionary Day, on which missionaries from the various fields could speak to the students, should be observed at Davidson.

FRESH-SOPHS HOLD PRELIMINARY DEBATE

The preliminaries of the Fresh-Soph debate were held last Tuesday night. The question was, “Resolved, That all under the age of twenty-one should be required to take one year of military training.” The debaters in the Philanthropic were Messrs. Dunlap, Howie, Long, and McKeithen, for the affirmative, and Messrs. Morrison and Lowrance, for the negative. The judges, Dr. Sentelle and Professor Garnand, gave the “reps” to McKeithen, Dunlap, and Long, with Morrison as alternate.

The Eumenean showed much more interest, having sixteen contestants. On the affirmative were Messrs. White, Boulware, Bitzer, Atkinson, Dugger, Sanders, and McCaskill; for the negative, Messrs. McPheeters, Ormond, A. P. Richards, Heizer, and Mitchell. The winners of “reps” were McCaskill, Ormond, and Mitchell. The judges were Drs. Clayberg, Hardin, Grey, and Arbuckle. On the whole, the debate was good. Most of the men showed a thorough knowledge of the question.

The Philanthropic winners have chosen the negative side in the final debate on March 31 between the two societies. The winner of the Fresh-Soph Debater’s Medal of each society will be chosen at this debate.

The DAVIDSONIAN. March 26, 1919

CAMPUSSISMS.

Neal Y. Pharr, accompanied by his personal bodyguard, spent the weekend in Charlotte.

We wish to offer our sympathies to ex-Corporal S.W. Murphy, who is now a buck private in the rear rank.

“Amo” Love and Sam Gilbert have decided to resign their positions on the Glee Club and to devote their time to getting out the Annual.

English Professor: “Who wrote ‘Woodman Spare That Tree’?”
“Slime” Harris: “George Washington.”

After the activities in the Gym Saturday night, several members of last year's basketball team seem very ill at ease while sitting down.

“Al” Wilson led a raid on Mr. Hill's “barbed-wire entanglement” that resulted very disastrously to the instigator.

All is not silver that glitters. For instance, the newly painted fire plugs seen around on the campus.

“Politician” Wiley and Windy Aiken were guests of the “Ante-Bellum Cafe” in Statesville last week.

“Social” Scott, of Brookneal, Va., upon his return from a trip home, has developed into a good example of a “Jazz-hound.”

Several members of the Junior class seem to have the idea that they are following in the footsteps of Demosthenes because they received requests for a copy of their speech. Don't be “stuck-up” about it. Everybody got one.

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Fricker, of Charlotte, parents of A. F. Fricker, ‘21, accompanied by their daughter, Miss Helen Fricker, were visitors on the Hill for a short time Saturday afternoon.

We have all noted and appreciated the improvements made on the campus last week. The work on the outdoor gymnasium was very beneficial in that the appearance and durability are greatly improved. The same may be said concerning the building of other iron fixtures on the hill. It is surprising how much these additions help the appearance of the campus.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85
CHARLOTTE
Quality and Service

Halts Engraved Work a Specialty

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time?
Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
(Phone 643)
T. C. STONE, Representative
NORTH CAROLINA

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., Mail Orders a Specialty
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT
Uniforms, Caps, Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Balls, Gloves, Masks, Etc.
Catalogues on request
A.C. SPALDING & BROS.
94 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

ARROW
Soft-St. 25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & Co. Inc. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John E. Douglas, Pres., W.H. Thompson, Cash., A. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier