The DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1919

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Officers Elected by Philanthropic Society
Declamation Feature Last Meeting of Eu. Society.

For the Phi. Society, Saturday night, the election of officers for next fall took the place of the regular program.
The following officers were elected:
President—D. M. Chalmers,
Vice-President—T. H. Wilson,
Secretary—J. H. McKeithan,
First Critic—L. G. Calhoun,
Second Critic—C. N. Morrison,
First Supervisor—D. P. McGeachy,
Second Supervisor—G. N. Neel,
Treasurer—A. L. Currie,
Valedictorian—W. M. Currie,
Respondent—L. G. Calhoun,
For the Debating Council—C. G. Long,
Janitor—W. K. McCain.

The installation of these officers will take place next Saturday night.

Declamations were the most interesting feature of the last meeting of the Eumeanean Society. C. E. Cunningham delivered Cicero's Denunciation
of Verres in a very spirited manner. And, in spite of the fact that his memory seemed a little shaky
at times, it was a very creditable performance. T. F. Martin thundered forth "William Tell" with telling gestures. He had
blood in his eye, and sprang at Gessler with all the vehemence that could be desired. "The Training Camp of
the Future," by H. W. Grady, was declaimed by J. M. Gilmer. Gilmer’s memory was excellent but his delivery reminded
one of the stereotyped "sweet girl graduate" of our standard (?) fiction. His eyes were cast demurely down and his
lips were seen to move for some minutes after which he took his seat.

The debate as a whole was not equal to the declamations. The subject was, "Resolved, That the Philippines should be
given their independence within the next five years." The first speaker on the affirmative was G. M. Robson. About six
minutes after he started, the vice-president succeeded in figuring out the intricate mechanism of the bell (which had been lost
for some weeks) and, holding it high, struck it with vicious glee! J. M. Richards, the next speaker for the
affirmative, was applauded as a second Demosthenes especially since he seemed to have a pebble or some such object in
his mouth. The next speaker for the affirmative was J. P. Price, who gave evidence of considerable preparation. The first
speaker on the negative was R. J. Knight, whose sheaf of notes seemed to indicate hours of preparation. However, his
delivery seemed to indicate otherwise. The second speaker on the negative was J. W. Phillips. This gentleman gives promise of
becoming a famous Fourth of July spell-binder, and his style of oratory tends to the bombastic. A. C. Ormond was
the last speaker for the negative. His prevailing position was standing on his right foot with his left hand concealed
in his pocket. His speech indicated considerable preparation. In general, the debate was a squabble about authority. Both sides quoted
the same authorities in exceedingly inconsistent statements. If the gentlemen on debate are to be trusted, Senor Quezon and others
with him are most irresponsible, vacillating, and inconsistent characters.

7:10 is now one of the most popular hours in Davidson.

Davidson Heroes To Be Remembered
Fitting Memorial Service to be Held Commencement.

A memorial service in memory of the nineteen Davidson College men, who are known to have given their lives for
their country in the recent world war, will be held at 5 p.m., May 27. This will be one of
the important features of commencement. Prof. Currie, who has charge of this, has secured Rev. W. Talliaferro Thompson, 1906, of
Knoxville, Tenn., to deliver the memorial address. Mrs. H. N. Pharr, of Charlotte, will add a great deal to the
program by rendering one or more vocal numbers. The records of these men will be read for each one has
had a wonderful military record, especially as the majority of them were young men and just starting out in life.
We feel the deepest gratitude for what they have done for us.

BRING SOMEONE BACK.

The Greater Davidson Club was organized for the enlargement of Davidson College in every phase of...college development. "The members of
this club have signified their willingness to do all within their power to make the club a great success and
to cause its name to mean everything it proposes. Perhaps the first and most beneficial work the student body can
do for the club is to solicit students for the coming year. In order to accomplish anything successfully, there must
first be interest—not merely passive interest but vital interest. No one will question the interest of the students of Davidson
College—for it has been a singular fact that the one thing that makes the college what it is—is the interest
and cooperation of the students at large. But with the organization of the Greater Davidson Club, it is hoped that
every student will show even greater interest than ever before shown to make the year 1919-1920 the greatest year in
the history of the college; greater in number of students, greater in athletics, and greater in fellowship.

We are at the close of the year—within a few days this student body will be scattered throughout the South
and Southeast. As you go to your homes and work, cultivate the habit of speaking a word for Davidson. At
every opportunity, begin a conversation with a boy who you think would make a good Davidson student. Find out his
plans—tell him of the advantages of Davidson and persuade him to make Davidson his choice. Let every student among the
lower classes adopt the following as his motto: (1) to come back himself; (2) to influence at least one fellow
to come. With this resolution—our goal of 700 will easily be reached and more.

C. J. M.

TRACK TEAM OUTCLASSED IN SOUTHERN MEET.

Our track team had the lamentable misfortune of not winning a point in the Southern meet. No particulars have been
learned in regard to the meet. In the preliminaries, Murrey was disqualified in the broad-jump and in the four-forty, and
Brice, Finley, and Walton in the four-forty. Brice and Murrey qualified for the two-twenty-yard dash and Murrey for the 100-yard
dash, but due to some misunderstanding, Murrey was not permitted to run the latter event. All long-distance runners ran in
the meet. It is interesting to note that a few of the records in the Davidson-South Carolina meet were better
than those of the Southern meet.

The Camp Greene Transit Company will operate a 22-Passenger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte commencing Tuesday, April 1, 1919,
on the following schedule, daily except Sunday:

Leave Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store 1:40 P. M. 6:00 P. M.
" Davidson, White Drug Co. 2:00 6:20
" Huntersville, Post Office 2:30 6:50
Arrive Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 3:30 7:50
Leave Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 4:00 P. M. 11:00 P. M.
" Huntersville, Post Office 5:00 12:00
" Davidson, White Drug Co. 5:30 12:30 A.M.
Arrive Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store 5:50 12:50

This gives the people along this route the opportunity to attend the shows and other amusements in Charlotte and return
home that night. Your patronage solicited.

Respectfully,
Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com. Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N. C.

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics.
We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

-----EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR-----
ED. MELLON CO.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

CAMP SAPPHIRE

Ideal Location, Complete Equipment, Strong Personnel of the Camp Council.
MILITARY ATHLETIC EDUCATIONAL
On Deer Park Lake, at the foot of Elk Lodge Mountain
BREVARD, N. C.
For Boys Between the Ages of Nine and Eighteen
Season of 1919, July 2 to August 27
For further information, address,
W. McK. Fetzer, Director
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
