The Why of the “Y”

As we go through college we usually accept things as they are; arguing that because a thing exists, therefore it
ought to exist. Do we ever stop and ask ourselves, “Why do colleges have literary societies? Why does Davidson engage
in intercollegiate athletics? Or what is the purpose of a college Y. M. C. A.?” There must be some reason
for the existence of every organization, and the purpose of this article is to partly account for the Young Men’s
Christian Association at Davidson College.

A student hardly arrives at Davidson before he is confronted with a veritable pandemonium of conflicting interests—each claiming supremacy in
his life. Scholarships, athletics, publications, fraternities, and literary societies are placed before him in their brightest colors, and he must
choose how he will divide his time between them. Each one has its own particular advantages and all fully repay
a man for the effort he expends upon them. And so a student chooses his activities and arranges his schedule
to accommodate them. But, wait a minute—there is no place on this program for Bible and mission study, for Christian
service and personal spiritual development. It is here that the “Y” intervenes. It recognizes that the only sure basis of
every activity is vigorous Christian character, and it works to supply this basis. Yes, it is only by putting first
things first that men arrive at any real success. The Y. M. C. A. therefore says to college men, “Seek
ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you.”

Most men who arrive at Davidson have already acquired a number of friends and know the meaning and value of
true friendship. The college “Y” seeks the fullest development of friendship between man and man and between the several classes,
at the same time striving to promote brotherhood among all men. But the “Y” has a special friend around whom
all its activities move and whom it works to bring every man into intimate contact with. Most fellows have met
Jesus Christ before their college days but very few are personally intimate with Him. They do not know the Christ
who accompanies a man through every activity, athletics, classroom work, public speaking, and all. There is no greater tragedy in
life than for a man to enter upon his life’s work in God's world and breathing His air, without the
close fellowship and guidance of Christ. The Y. M. C. A. at Davidson would be false to itself and to
its purpose if it did not in every way point to the One who waits only for a man to
open the door before “He will come in unto him and sup with him.”

The other purposes of the Y. M. C. A. are but offshoots of this higher object and need only to
be mentioned. There are the Bible study groups under student leaders, in which every man is given an opportunity for
the fullest development. In the World Forum meetings, men learn the real meaning of “Missionary” and get a right conception
of the great fields of opportunity now presented in the world. The Y. M. C. A. furnishes officers and teachers
to nearby Sunday Schools and also engages in playground and social work.

The DAVIDSONIAN, May 28, 1919

Volunteers Wide Awake Plan for Next Year

The Volunteer Band almost surprised its old members by Spring. Last Fall, in common with all other similar organizations, the
Band was necessarily inactive. But this Spring, with C. A. Woods as president and a live Secretary in Dave Roberts,
the Band made up for lost time. Interest in various phases of work was stirred up, and three or four
delegations were sent out. A record number of students went to the State Volunteer Conference at Guilford College. It was
an inspiring convention, and every delegate got a better idea of the urgent need for missionaries that will come in
the next few years. The billion dollars drive for missions that is going to take place in the next few
months will put the various mission boards in a position to make a much-needed increase in the number of missionaries
in the foreign field. Men and women must prepare for the work; and it is one of the main purposes
of a volunteer band to present the call to college students and keep their goal before them.

The Davidson Band has increased from eight, at the beginning of the term, to eighteen, who have signed the card,
and a number of others who have not yet decided. The new president, Dave Roberts, has already made plans for
extension next year, and there is every promise of Davidson's having one of the most active and progressive bands in
the State.

MINISTERIAL BAND SMALL BUT “PEPPY”

The Ministerial Band has during the past term had a very successful year. It is true that the numbers have
not been as large as they have been in the past.

The Korean Revolution (Continued from Page 7)

We do not ask you to join us in things political, but we do ask you to join with us
in prayer for those of our friends who are in jail awaiting trial at this time, and for those who
have endured physical suffering. Pray that whatever the outcome may be they may only be strengthened in their faith and
trust in their Savior.

A word in closing about this as to our safety. While there has been one case in which a foreigner
was badly bruised and beaten by the gendarmes, and three or four cases in which ladies have been insulted and
pushed very roughly, there is absolutely no danger to us, I think, and these were exceptional cases for which apology
has been given. Of course, it is not advisable to itinerate at the present time, and very little has been
attempted, though we have gone out to the nearby churches. While in some of the Japanese papers, as I said,
we missionaries have been accused of being at the bottom of all this, there has been no discourtesy on the
part of our Japanese friends, nor have the Japanese people risen against the Koreans—except possibly in one or two instances,
and it seems in these cases that they were under police orders, and were only aiding the police in trying
to keep order. It seems a pity that the soldiers were called in, for much unnecessary cruelty followed, and many
innocent bystanders suffered as much.

THE ROAD TO MASTERY

The road which leads to mastery, to power in any line is not an easy one. It is rough, rocky,
thorny—a road lined with difficulties which will test powers of will and persistence, but it pays to travel it. If
you would feel the thrill of success in law, in music, in medicine, in art, in science, in business, in
agriculture, in invention—in any calling, the thrill felt by the conqueror, the man who has reached his goal, this is
the road you must travel. This is the only road which you can look back upon with pride, the only
road.or more than those who were guilty. Last Wednesday there occurred one of the most dreadful accidents that has Dr.
and Mrs. Bell and Mr. Knox of Kwangju, and Mr. P. S. Crane, of Mokpo, were going from Seoul south
in an automobile owned by Dr. Bell, when they were struck at a railway crossing, and Mrs. Bell and Mr.
Crane were instantly killed, and Mr. Knox was badly in- jured. In a statement in today’s Seoul Dr. Bell explains
that they had been on the alert all the morning for trains and had crossed the track several times, but
at this particular crossing he was prevented from seeing the train by a hood on the left of the auto.
It seems so terrible. Mrs. Bell was the sister of Mr. Bull of Kunsen, and leaves two children, about twelve
and five, respectively. Mrs. Crane is the daughter of Mr. Rowland, and they had two little babies, the oldest about
three years old. News from Seoul today that Mr. Knox is much better, and Dr. Bell was practically unhurt, though
the shock to him was necessarily very great, and we fear he cannot live long now. How our hearts do
go out in sympathy to the afflicted families at this time! We cannot understand why this should be allowed to
happen, but we know that God's ways are not our ways, and we can only turn to Him. At such
times, indeed, blessed is the man whose God is the Lord.

I took Jean down to Seoul last week and had her tonsils and adenoids taken out. She came out all
right, and is doing finely. We hope this means more freedom from colds in the future. We have written for
reservations on the S. S. “Nanking,” leaving Yokohama on June 19th, and hope to be in San Francisco seventeen days
later. We will go to see my wife's father, mother, and sister at Los Angeles, and hope to come East
later. We both want to do studying while at home, but have not definitely decided on our plans yet. Do
not forget to remember the work here in your prayers. We do not forget you there in the homeland. May
God bless the labor in which each of you is engaged.

Sincerely your friend,
WM. P. PARKER.

BEST KIND OF PLAY IS WORK.
One of the best kinds of play is work. Many of the elements of play enter into work if it
is performed in the right spirit. The most satisfying forms of play are those in which interest is excited; competition,
with desire to succeed and accomplish some definite end, makes the game worth playing. Work is fatiguing and distasteful when
it is lacking in these elements, which ends in enduring satisfaction.

SOUR GRAPES.
Edith—“Jack told me I was so interesting and so beautiful.”
Marie—“And yet you will trust yourself for life with a man who begins deceiving you even during his courtship.” —
Toronto Telegram.

HONOR ROLL FOR SESSION 1918-19.
Post-Graduate — McCloy, 98.00; Craig, A. R., 96.67.
Senior—McKeithan, L. B., 97.20; Woods, E. A., 97.00; Pharr, N. Y., 96.80; Dunlap, W. T., 95.80; Lilly, E. G., 95.20.
Junior—Chalmers, D. M., 96.67; Calhoun, L. G., 95.50; Askew, S. H., 95.14.
Sophomores—Brown, C. K., 96.30; Cumming, W. P., 95.84; Cassell, J. E., 95.67.
Freshmen—Richards, J. M., 96.77; Price, J. P., 95.85.

J. M. Richards has the highest grade in Freshman Class and receives the Alumni Medal.

A dime to many a young American does not mean two nickels or 10 pennies. Money to American youth has
value only in that it immediately buys something. Money spent unwisely is gone forever; money put in Thrift Stamps and
W. S. S. returns with more.

BOYS! Now that hot weather is here, keep cool by wearing Swzoors-Schaefer Kool Kloths made especially for you, from the
very latest patterns. We guarantee satisfaction on every deal.

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES No. 13 CHAMBERS

After Vacation, What? To College of Course!
You are familiar with Davidson's athletic record; know of the success of her debating teams; have heard of her beautiful
campus; have doubtless thought of the fact that “Pep” and unbounded college spirit, such as characterizes Davidson students, can live
only in wholesome campus conditions. You are acquainted with Davidson alumni in places of responsibility and trust in politics, in
business, and in religion. BUT do you know about the 20 courses Davidson offers; the entrance requirements; the assignment of
rooms; the cost of a college education? A Catalogue containing this and other information will be sent free. Address:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
Davidson, N. C.

FOUR HUNDRED STUDENTS
