2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers..... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts... .. Assignment Editor
S. W. McCloy........- Alumni Editor
B. K. Shields........-. Athletic Editor

THE STAFF
E.G. Lilly
Emery Flyan
W. M. Currie

MANAGEMENT
J. R. Boulware, Jr. Business Manager
W. T. Dunlap, Jr. Assistant Manager
A. R. Craig Assistant Manager
E. A. Turner Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander Assistant Manager
C. J. Matthews Assistant Manager
J. P. Price Assistant Manager

Reporters for this issue are: J. M. Richards, M. R. Doubles, O. M. Dugger, Jr., A. C. Summers, W. P.
Cumming, J. P. Price, W. W. Moore, T. H. Patterson, J. E. Cassell, T. S. Martin, I. G. Calhoun, R.
R. McIlwaine, B. B. Britenbirt, M. W. Doggett, Jr., H. Tufts, and A. E. Cellars.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

Time, Tide, and Junior Speaking wait on no man. What doth it profit a Senior if he have no distinctive
privileges? Davidson's railroad schedule was evidently arranged to keep anyone from leaving the Hill. What a thing is college wit;
Someone remarked that those exhaust flues have been put on Shearer Hall just in time. We pitied the boys who
had to study geography and history after the Balkan War, but that isn't a circumstance to the way we feel
for the poor guys who have to draw a map of Europe after the Peace Conference. Why not have some
individuality and keep off the path across the grass from South Wing Chambers to the drug store? More agony is
wrought by Speaking than this world dreams of. "Learn to chew over the thoughts your professor hands to you—he wants
you to. Later on the world won't always furnish you with such digestible material, and a little practice now will
help you choose later. Don't swallow everything whole. Do a little thinking and reasoning for yourself."—R. M.

THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY

"The American University is a coffee mill: young men and women are dumped into it, someone spins the handle and
out they all come mixed together, individuality gone; all just the same; little grains the same size, the same color,
the same smell." This quotation from a modern author of some reputation represents a modified, if not an entirely new
attitude, toward the American College. Today those who prefer charges against college training have to a great extent abandoned the
arguments which...

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 5, 1919

Around the Campus

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, '92, of Union Theological Seminary, will deliver the commencement sermon at Clemson College, Sunday, June 5.

Lieut. S. G. Love, ex-'12, has been granted his discharge from the service, and has resumed his medical work in
Chester, S. C. Lieutenant Love was in the Medical Corps a year and a half, and during the last few
months of the war was in the very thick of the fighting in France, at one time being gassed.

Lieut. J. A. Thames, '18, has received his discharge from the army, and has secured a position as assistant to
Congressman Nichols, of South Carolina, in Washington. He has plans of studying law at George Washington University "on the side."

Rev. A. J. Carriker, '15, was on the Hill Monday on behalf of Louisville Theological Seminary.

Lieut. V. J. Mitchell, '17, who has been engaged during the last several months in Washington and New York, spent
Sunday at Davidson. Lieutenant Mitchell was accompanied by his parents and sister, who are returning from a trip to New
York.

Dr. T. W. Lingle did not arrive in Davidson last week, as expected, as he had to undergo a slight
operation performed in Raleigh. His friends will be glad to hear that he has recovered rapidly, and is expected to
come here sometime this week.

...of criticism which has been caught up by those who depreciate the value of a higher education and find in
this indictment a popular expression of their disapproval. Granted that the American university is a mill—into that mill is dumped
in heterogeneous confusion thousands of young men (and women), differing as to race, creeds, home influences, social position, habits of
life, habits of thought, and inherited advantages. They undergo a milling process which knocks...off the rough corners of provincialism and
grinds to small bits many long-cherished rights and privileges: “They no longer find themselves the centers of little solar systems
but discover that they in company with multitudes of others revolve around great interests upon which the attention of all
is focused. ‘Individuality gone?’ Well, perhaps, but what a tremendous social gain! ‘Little grains the same size, the same color,
the same smell?’ But what a chaos of thought and action would result from a differentiation based upon individual fancy
and caprice! Put students together for four years under the influence of college traditions and it would be strange indeed
if a certain uniformity of attitude and habit of thought did not develop. This is as true of the community
or nation as it is of the college and as a mere observation is valueless. One thing alone concerns us:
Is the attitude which the college group develops magnanimous or petty? Is its habit of thought wholesome and healthy or
is it malicious and vengeful? Is its conduct fair and above board or is it deceitful? If the ideals are
high nothing could be better than the collegiate body be permeated with so desirable a leaven. If the ideals are
objectionable, what folly is it then to lament the fact that they are emulated! Rather strive for their correction and
improvement and the very tendency which it is claimed makes for monotonous sameness will lift the American collegian to a
higher plane of living and thinking.—The Colgate Maroon.

DR. C. H. SPRATT SPEAKS AT PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

Last Sunday night, Dr. C. H. Pratt, a returned missionary from Korea, made his fifth talk for the day, in
behalf of the three and one-half million dollar drive, soon to be attempted by the church. Many interesting and instructive
facts were brought before the audience, such as the large scale on which the world has become accustomed to doing
things during the war. “The church,” he said, “must do likewise, if it expects to extend the Gospel and education
to the world, as it now waits, eager to receive both.” He said, “Democracy has been made safe for the
world, but pray that it may be made safe for Christ.” He brought out the fact that the Sunday schools
of today are not as good as they were a year ago, that people are saying that Christianity has outgrown
the church and is trying to set it aside. In closing, the request was made, “If you cannot give, pray
that someone who can give, will give.”

TENNIS NEWS.

The tennis sharks are practicing hard now, not even the bad weather or Junior Speaking checking their work. Whenever there's
a bit of blue sky in sight, they are busy getting their favorite strokes down. Interest is growing daily, although
the date for the tournament has not been fully decided. It is expected to be held the week following Junior
Speaking. The courts will be in good condition after the usual Junior Speaking rains!

We are receiving almost every day young men's New Spring Suits made in the newest models, attractively priced at $18.50,
25.00, 27.50, 29.50 and 35.00. Be sure and see these when in the city.

BELK BROTHERS

Rembrandt Studio CHARLOTTE, N. C. WILL CONVINCE YOU. 27 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office O. J. RADER, Proprietor

TYPEWRITING A. P. ORMOND

We Knock the Spots Out The Charlotte Steam Laundry KEY and McCASKILL, Agts. We'll get 'em on Monday Nights

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial At the same place with new equipment Hood Norton
Next to Post Office DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS: 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D. President

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special Designs and Estimates Furnished
on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson 17
Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.
