THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

Athletic News

Football Gleanings

Here’s the Live and Up-to-Date Athletic Dope

The following games should make a good live program for this weekend:
- Davidson vs. Clemson, at Clemson.
- North Carolina vs. Rutgers, at New Brunswick.
- Wake Forest vs. Georgia Tech, at Atlanta.
- Hampden-Sydney vs. V. P. I., at Blacksburg.
- Citadel vs. University of Georgia, at Athens.
- St. Johns vs. V. M. I., at Lexington.
- Oglethorpe vs. Furman, at Greenville.
- Birmingham College vs. Alabama, at Tuscaloosa.
- Randolph-Macon vs. Washington and Lee, at Lexington.
- Tennessee State Normal vs. Vanderbilt, at Nashville.
- University of Virginia vs. Harvard, at Cambridge.

The season started out Saturday as all good seasons should by overturning the dope in several instances. Probably the biggest
surprise was the small score made by V. M. I. against “Monk” Younger’s Presbyterians. The cadets could gain ground consistently
but lacked the final drive for a touchdown. A place kick by Leech from the twenty-yard line saved them from
a tie. Hampden-Sydney hits V. P. I. Saturday and will be mighty lucky if they can get off with as
small a score.

Another upset was in the Virginia-Randolph-Macon game. Reports are current that the Orange and Blue have a team as good
as their 1915 squad and a walk-away was expected. They were able, however, to put across only a couple of
touchdowns, one of which was due to a fumble.

Southern football this season has the best chance in its history to show up a few of the big Eastern
teams. North Carolina goes East this week, meeting Rutgers Saturday and Yale a week later. Rutgers won her game last
week 34-0, while Carolina has not yet been up against a college team. This will be quite an advantage to
Rutgers, but it is hoped that Carolina can overcome this handicap sufficiently to make a creditable showing.

At present the odds also seem to be against the University of Virginia when they meet Harvard. While the latter
was winning over Bates by eight touchdowns, Virginia was being held to a 12-0 score by a team they should
have romped on without any trouble.

The biggest scores made by any teams in the country were made by those we tackle this season. A. &
E. led the whole list with the massacre of Guilford. Georgia Tech came second by beating Furman 74-0. Clemson also
was high in the list. The total scores made by these three teams was 296 to their opponents’ 0. The
only teams we face this year that failed to win Saturday are South Carolina and Furman, both of whom were
bucking other prospective opponents which made necessary the defeat of at least two.

It is gratifying to note that the ill feeling between this college and Wake Forest, which was so conspicuous several
years ago, has completely died out. Last spring when the baseball team visited there they were treated as cordially as
could be hoped for. The only regrettable feature was the 14-0 score. This year the football team brings back the
same report. Both on the field and on the campus the students and players showed a sportsmanlike spirit which could
not be excelled anywhere.

The reports received from Clemson indicate that Friday’s game is probably the hardest the Wildcats will have during the month
of October. Tigers and Wildcats have never lost any love on each other and there is bound to be a
bloody scrap when they get together. The defeat of last year has not been forgotten and revenge will be mighty
sweet.

“Wooley” Grey’s Assistant Coaching in Football Much Appreciated

Has Rendered Valuable Service in Getting Linemen in Proper Shape

Davidson has always been fortunate in having so many alumni who are willing to come back and help coach her
teams. This year’s football squad is especially to be congratulated on having “Wooley” Grey to assist Coach Crayton in rounding
them into shape.

“Wooley” played guard on Davidson's football team for four years, 1914, '15, '16, and '17, winning a letter his last
three years. Although he was a universally fine player during his entire college course, it was in 1917 that he
did his best work. In this year he was mentioned for All-American honors. He was also a star track man,
winning his “D” for four consecutive years in this sport. During these years he smashed all Davidson records for the
discus throw and shot put.

During the past year he has been engaged in the work of coaching all athletics at Bailey Military Institute. He
succeeded in turning out unusually successful teams under war conditions existing at that time. “Wooley” has worked hard and faithfully
on this year’s linemen, and any success they may attain will be in large measure due to his efforts. By
his work he has not only helped the prospects of the line, but has enabled Coach Crayton to devote more
individual attention to the ends and backfield men. The students of Davidson owe “Wooley” no small debt of gratitude and
their hearty thanks and best wishes.Go with him as he returns to his work at Bailey. LB 5 attended Fishburne
Preparatory School, The Bank of Davidson where he was for two years a letterman in football, baseball, and basketball. He
does commercial banking, runs a savings department, and has lock boxes for rent. Your business is solicited. John L. Douglas,
Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, S. Lee Steen, V-Pres. He also played an excellent game of basketball during the S.A.T.C.
last fall and will in all probability make the varsity easily this year.

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me. Next
to Pressing Club

See Us Announcement has been received by the Athletic Association of a State Intercollegiate tennis tournament to be held on
October 16, 17, 18. With the announcement was the request that Davidson be represented both in the doubles and singles.
Further information will be sent later, at which time the manager will give out the details as to the method
of choosing the team.

Lively patterns and a cheerful gaiety mark the colors of our Fall furnishings. It looks as if everybody intended to
let themselves go a bit, not quite so set and conventional as before the war. Neckwear is very expressive of
the state of one's mind. The new socks will also cheer up your feet. Handkerchiefs that will brighten the facade
of your suit. Everything here sparkling with newness from top to toe. For your events, we carry a full line
of stationery, Huyler’s candy, Waterman's fountain pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our drinks are unexcelled. Special service given to
your prescriptions.

NEW PLAN TO BE TRIED IN PRE-VARSITY BASKETBALL. As a preliminary to class basketball, inter-dormitory basketball games are being planned.
Every afternoon there is a squad of men on the floor in the new gym practicing, and it is hoped
to organize these teams according to their respective dormitories. The games will be played during the month of October, in
the afternoon, so that they will not interfere with any work. No men will be barred from playing on any
team. Men who have made their “D” in basketball will be eligible. Teams from Rumple, Watts, Georgia, North Wing Chambers,
South Wing Chambers, and Louisiana will compete. There are varsity men in every building and these men will be used
as the nucleus around which the teams will be formed. Mr. Miles has formulated this plan and he will have
charge of the entire arrangements. With a scrappy series as this for an opener, class basketball ought to create more
interest and be faster than ever before.

34 S. Tryon CHARLOTTE, N.C. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co. The Selwyn Hotel

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY FIRE PROOF RICHMOND, VA. Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W.
W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

RATS JOHNNY JOHNSTON RECEIVES HEARTY WELCOME ON RETURN TO DAVIDSON NO MORE Davidson's prospects for a successful 1919 football season
took another big boom when W. I. Johnston, better known as “Johnny” Johnston, returned to school last Wednesday. “Johnny” played
a star game at half for the Wildcats last fall but did not return in the spring. His work in
the Washington and Lee and North Carolina games was especially fine. His work during last season showed him to be
one of the fastest and best offensive backs that has ever played on a Davidson eleven. He is exceptionally good
at receiving forward passes and in broken field running. Before coming to Davidson Johnny

Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

Instructor—“How is poison-ivy contracted?” Student Nurse—“At picnics.”

KILLS RATS and mice—that's RAT-SNAP, the old reliable rodent destroyer. Comes in cakes—no mixing with other food. Your money back
if it fails. 25¢ size (1 cake) enough for pantry, kitchen, or cellar. 50¢ size (2 cakes) for chicken house,
coops, or small buildings. $1.00 size (5 cakes) enough for all farm and out-buildings, storage buildings, or factory buildings. Sold
and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware and White Drug Store.

R. S. Johnson Co. FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies See Us For
Hardware and Farm Implements Phone 85

FELLOWS I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South. E.
N. BOOKER 18 Watts
