THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Devotional News

Gibson Shoe Repair Shop
Fellows, bring me your old shoes; make them look new.

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.
DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman, Room No. 13 Watts.

GLEE CLUB PROGRESSING; Splendid Work at Oak Grove
Sunday School Maintained for Past Five Years by Davidson Student Body

Probably one of the most promising of the Sunday Schools conducted by the students of the Y. M. C. A.
is the school at Oak Grove. It has been maintained solely by the Y. M. C. A. mission board for
about five years. It is located about two and one-half miles west of Davidson. L. G. Calhoun, the superintendent, and
his faithful staff of teachers have been doing a splendid work. It is one of the most interesting and fruitful
fields covered by the students. The attendance every Sunday is between 30 and 45, including both children and parents. Through
the generosity of the school trustees, the school building is used. They have a good organ there and the singing
is unusually good for such a mission point. The community offers its support to the Sunday School in many ways.
However, due to the fact there is a Sunday School at Mt. Mourn, just a mile away, the attendance is
not so large as in other fields. A number of denominations are represented and all work in perfect harmony. The
pupils are all very enthusiastic and the work is encouraging. The present plan of the superintendent is to have an
outside speaker preach or talk to them as often as possible, Dr. Arbuckle having spoken this last month. This school
is but one example of the wonderful work carried on by the students of Davidson College.

CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Charlotte, N.C.
EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt. 7 Romple

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
No. 20 and 26 Chambers

SECOND FLOOR WATTS LEADS IN PERCENTAGE FOR BIBLE CLASSES
Sunday morning failed to come up to the desired standard caused by somebody failing to do their part. “There was
no excuse for not being there Sunday, and you would have been better off if you had been there to
help do your part in this work. Don't slack on the job, but be there Sunday and make your class
the best on the hill. This is the record for last Sunday morning:

Watts:
No. Present. Pet.
First floor........ 92 80
Second floor.... 20 100
Third floor....... 18 90
Total............... 130 90

Rumple:
East side.......... 22 92
West side.......... 27 74
Total............... 49 80

Chambers:
North Wing...... 40 78
South Wing...... 39 63
Total............... 79 70

Cers:
First floor........ 8 50
Second floor.... 12 90
Third floor....... 10 60
Total............... 30 66

Grand Total.... 224 76

“QUIPS AND CRANKS” PHOTOGRAPHER HELD BUSY SESSION HERE
To get “shot” in a good cause is worthwhile. Individually and collectively the Davidson students gave evidence last week of
their belief in this. A representative of the Shuford Studio, of Gastonia, spent Thursday here taking photographs.

CALL FOR ASPIRANTS
The Glee Club is now holding two meetings a week and much progress has been shown. More men are urged
to try out for this organization as the showing at Senior Speaking should be as good as possible. “Buck” Currie
has been elected assistant manager and with his aid, Manager Shields should have one of the best quartets since the
days of Jamie Fowle, the Southern nightingale. The program is being arranged for Speaking and soon there will be nightly
rehearsals. Come out and try for the Glee Club!

ENROLL IN THE RED CROSS: PAY YOUR DOLLAR BEFORE NOV. 11
Although the war is over, the Red Cross is still in action. It did a great good during the war
and it is still upholding its reputation. It takes money to run it, as it does everything else, so they
are calling upon everyone to enlist in the 1920 roll call. Membership in the Red Cross Association costs only one
dollar. The students will not be canvassed for this, but instead one man from each class has been appointed to
receive your dollar. These men are as follows: From the Senior class, S. H. Askew; Junior class, J. R. Boulware,
Jr.; Soph class, C. E. Cunningham; Fresh class, W. S. Buchanan. See these men and give them your dollar before
November 11, as the campaign closes at that time.

DAVIDSON BATTALIONS WILL PARADE IN CHARLOTTE
Saturday morning Colonel Mueller made a speech to the men in the R. O. T. C. urging them to reconsider
their former vote not to go to Charlotte.In military formation for the game with N. C. State, Colonel Mueller emphasized
the fact that it would be an excellent advertisement for the college. He also said that when the people of
Charlotte see us march up West Trade and down South Tryon with the band playing and the battalion marching like
veterans, they will all root for Davidson, whether they had intended to do so or not. After this appeal, the
colonel asked those who wished to show their loyalty for the college and the team to hold up their hands.
By a large majority vote, the Davidson Battalion decided to go to Charlotte.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
The Sunday Schools not only maintained their good record Sunday but also showed a slight increase, due chiefly to the
beautiful weather, it is supposed. The attendance for last Sunday was as follows:

| School | Members | Teachers |
|---------|----------|----------|
| Brawley | 50 | 4 |
| Caldwell | 96 | 7 |
| Cornelius | 68 | 7 |
| Cowans | 20 | 5 |
| Mill | 56 | 4 |
| Oak Grove | 32 | 4 |
| Shearer Chapel | 58 | 8 |
| Total | 360 | 39 |

OUTLINED BY DR. LINGLE
The meeting held Sunday night at the Presbyterian Church in the interest of the Red Cross was attended by a
large crowd. The opening prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. Woosley, pastor of the First Methodist Church, after which Dr.
Lingle read a most appropriate Scripture reading from the 25th chapter of Matthew. Dr. Armond rendered a solo. Dr. Arbuckle
gave a short sketch of the real aim of the Red Cross organization in Davidson, expressing his belief that every
person in Davidson would soon join the chapter here. Dr. Lingle made a fine talk on the history and work
of the Red Cross in previous wars and in the late world war, and told many thrilling experiences in which
the neutrality of the Red Cross was not respected by the enemy. He stated his belief that in the future
the neutrality of the Red Cross would be held sacred by all nations. Dr. Lingle closed this talk with the
familiar quotation which is the aim of the Red Cross: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."

RED CROSS WORK
Individual pictures of the Juniors and Seniors, and various group pictures, were taken. The photographer will be here again after
Christmas for one day to take the pictures of those Juniors and Seniors who did not see him Thursday. This
will be their last chance. Pictures of the basketball team, the glee club, and the marshals will also be taken
at that time. Group pictures of the two Literary Societies, the Ministerial Band, the Volunteer Band, the Georgia Club, the
Alabama Club, the Mecklenburg County Club, and the other organizations on the hill were made.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS
I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for
and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.
Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

$308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man.
When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back,
turn him loose, and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a
course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome
his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us
a line and ask us to give you full particulars.
Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. S. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS
That you can buy at the DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and Fixtures.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He wants your business and will give you a square deal. He represents only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

Athletic Sport is the royal road to good health. We furnish every essential for Football, Soccer, Basketball, Indoorball, Hockey, Skating,
and the Gym. Agents Wanted where we are not Represented.
ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
Athletic Outfitters.
26 East 42d St.
New York City
Write for our new catalog.
