The DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1919

Navy Bill Was Not A Dry Subject
Eus. Favor Daniels’ Plan While Phis. Are Opposed.

SCHEDULE FOR FEB. 22.
Debate: “Resolved, That all discharged soldiers should receive six months’ pay.”
Philanthropic.
Affirmative: 
McCain
Shaw
Banner
Declamations:
Lawrence
Foster
J. M. Dunlap
Extemporaneous Debate.
Affirmative:
Foscue
W. F. Hall
Negative:
Howie
Sloan
Nisbet
H. R. Poole
Cashion
Negative:
Hart
I. H. Wilson
Eumenean:
Affirmative:
Gaston
Manning
Lowry
Long
Montgomery
Massey
Declamations:
M. W. McGill
J. C. B. McLaughlin
Oration:
A. L. Wilson

The Eumenean Society meeting on last Saturday night proved to be quite interesting, although the debate was somewhat lacking in pep. In the absence of the president, the vice-president took charge of the meeting. After the usual devotional exercises and the reading of the minutes, it was moved and carried that there should be only three debaters on each side for that evening. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That Secretary Daniels’ recent naval program should be adopted.” Mr. Turner was excused and Mr. C. B. Robson was appointed to take his place in defending the affirmative. Matthews, the first speaker for the affirmative, stated the terms of the program and outlined its history. W. B. Dunlap brought out several good points. He showed that America needed a larger navy not only to protect herself, but to help enforce the laws of the League of Nations. C. B. Robson delivered an excellent debate, considering the fact that he had not been able to make preparation beforehand. He suggested an increase of our navy as a possible solution of the industrial questions incident to the return of our soldiers. Askew spoke first for the negative. He corrected the affirmative’s misstatement of the question and showed that an increase of our navy would destroy that friendship between England and America which is so necessary for the peace of the world. Doggett showed lack of preparation and was unable to bring forward any effective points. Gilmer pointed out the fact that America already has a large navy and showed that an increase of our navy is not only unnecessary but in view of the war debt, foolish. The house, as well as the committee, rendered its decision in favor of the affirmative. Grille gave as his declamation “A Eulogy on Lincoln at Gettysburg.” Gunn followed him with “Wilson's Reply to the Pope.” Both of the gentlemen suffered from nervousness, but did well for their first appearance on the program. Harrell failed to deliver his oration. As there was no further business, the house was declared adjourned.

Phi Society.
A very successful program was carried out by the Phi Society Saturday night. In the absence of President Hall and Vice President Chalmers, on the basketball trip, the meeting was called to order by J. M. Dunlap. A new member, J. S. Brown, ‘21, was voted upon and received into the society. The query for debate was: “Resolved, That Secretary Daniels’ recent naval program should be adopted.” The affirmative side being absent, Roberts, Howell, and T. R. Alexander were appointed to substitute for them. Roberts gave a good speech but he lacked the necessary oratorical force. Howell brought out several points on the affirmative side. T. R. Alexander gave a very good speech and had some good arguments. The negative side was well supported. E. G. Lilly spoke with pep and force. His speech was well presented and his points were clearly outlined. Clark had a good speech but was a little nervous. Spence gave a very forceful speech. The judge decided three to nothing in favor of the negative. A declamation, “Lee,” was given by Smith. Stone gave a most elaborate oration on “Spanish Influenza.” Mr. Stone presented the latest authoritative reports on the actions of “Influenza.” The extemporaneous debate subject was: “Resolved, That the Seniors should be granted two chapel absences a week as Senior privileges.” The affirmative was upheld by R. C. Garth and the negative by E. N. Booker. The judges decided two to one in favor of the affirmative.

CHURCH PROBLEMS DISCUSSED AT CONVENTIONS
Dr. Martin and Dr. Arbuckle went to Atlanta last week to attend a two-day conference for the discussion of the “Inter-Church World Movement of North America.” The conference was conducted under the leadership of Fred B. Smith, a noted men’s evangelist. Col. Raymond Robins, of Chicago, a social worker and lecturer, made a number of addresses, as did Dr. Smith. The principal subjects discussed were the closer cooperation of the Churches of America and after-war programs along spiritual and social lines. The conference was attended by nearly 150 representatives of various denominations.denominations in the Southeastern States, from Kentucky to Florida. It lasted from Monday, February 10, to Wednesday, February 12. Dr. Smith expressed the opinion that the conference was very satisfactory and helpful. While in Atlanta, Dr. Martin also attended a meeting of the Presbyterian Laymen's Executive Committee. The matter of conventions was discussed and tentative plans were made; however, nothing was decided definitely.

NEW BOOKS IN LIBRARY. Among the many new and interesting books that have been received in the Library are: “The Faith of France,” by Maurice Barrès; “Face to Face With Kaiserism,” by James W. Gerard; “The Diplomatic Background of the War 1870-1914," by Charles Seymour; “The Origins of the War, 1871-1914," by J. Holland Rose; “Stakes of the War,” by Stoddard and Frank; and “America’s Case Against Germany,” by Lindsay Rogers.

GOLF CLUB ORGANIZES. Monday afternoon the Golf club held a meeting for the purpose of effecting an organization. Both faculty and student members are inspired by the coming of spring to test their skill at the game upon the course. It is being worked into good shape for the season's tournament.

Emery Flinn took in the sights of Charlotte Saturday.

SQUIBS Bill Currie pulled the first 100 of his college career on Public Speaking on last month's review. Pig Iron Sutton and Ground Hog Miller each received a Valentine Friday. Amo Love volunteered to “shoot up" Dr. McConnell on Saturday's Senior history class. G. H. Beall has introduced ice cream into Davidson for the present season. Some venturesome spirits from among our midst braved the rage of the elements on Tuesday afternoon. This party stood for about a quarter of an hour on the roof of Chambers and sketched the cupola. The identity of this hero has not been discovered. R. W. Holmes, of the Gold Dust Twins, spent a part of last week at Lexington. He reports a swell time. Indoor tennis was inaugurated last week on the Hill. The old gym has been put into use and would-be tennists are to be found here improving their game. B. M. Hamer, of the Fresh class, indulged in twenty-eight (28) bars of chocolate Saturday night and is still alive at the present writing. T. H. Spence, Jr. was fined as usual at the meeting of the Phi Society Saturday night. Fred Streetman, of Mount Pleasant, was on the Hill for the week-end visiting the Marion delegation.

President Liston, of the Alabama Club, learns that the Poles of Posen number 62 percent of the population. Several young people from Mooresville came down on the cars Tuesday to try to secure a teacher for a private school. They have been attending a private school while the high school was closed on account of flu, and desire to continue their studies under private instruction. Their teacher has gone back to his old position with the public schools and the young folk desired to get someone from the college to teach them. The party consisted of Misses Margaret and Mary Lea White, Nell Hawthorne, Cora Freeze, and Messrs. Lewis Brawley, Doyt Cornelius, and Nat Johnston.

THINK IT OVER BOYS you still have time to get one of those “nifty, catch-your-eye” suits, tailored to fit absolutely.

COACH FETZER TALKS ON DAVIDSON SPIRIT Those attending chapel exercises on Monday morning were favored by a stirring talk by Coach Fetzer, who gave some very good advice to the Student Body and expressed his desire that they would take some definite action accordingly. First, he brought out the point of increasing the confidence, among the students, of their fellow students. Next was emphasized the fact that the dormitories and campus should be kept neater. Third, he denounced the swearing habit that students have lately fallen into. Lastly, he emphatically stated that the fellows should discontinue the ungentlemanly practice of bringing a lady's name up in public. He said that all these little things go to make up the tone of the college. If the fellows will take heed of this advice the college will be bettered physically, mentally, and morally.

PORTRAIT OF PRESIDENT McPHAIL The college has just placed in the hall of the Library building a picture of President George Wilson McPhail, D.D. LL.D. Dr. McPhail was president of Lafayette College, in Pennsylvania, and came to Davidson in 1867. He died during the Commencement exercises of 1870 and is buried in the village cemetery. The portrait was made from a picture loaned by Mrs. Oetzel, of Union, S.C. The present president of Lafayette College, Dr. J. H. McCracken, will make the Commencement Address at Davidson at the coming finals.

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South’s Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. K. N. BOOKER, Agt.

THE STORRS-SCHAEFER CO. Our Samples are now on Display at NO. 13 CHAMBERS SATISFACTION OR NO DEAL GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES