10 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Two Debates Secured With Other Colleges

Davidson is putting out two debating teams this year, both of which are represented by excellent debaters. These men are working hard and are going to do their best to win the honor for old Davidson, so let us back them up and give them a word of cheer when we meet them. Both teams will debate the same question, which is: “Resolved, That the Federal government should run and operate the railroads in the United States.” Davidson upholds the negative in the two debates, one with Mercer and the other with Washington and Lee.

Flinn and R. I. Hall with E. A. Woods as alternate will compose the team to debate Mercer. This debate will be held on May 2 or 3 in Atlanta, probably in the Tech Y. M. C. A. auditorium. These men have been working hard for some time and now have almost finished writing their debate. No doubt Mercer has a strong team and will offer a great deal of opposition, but we hope that our team will win the decision.

W. M. Currie and E. G. Lilly with Liston as alternate will be ready to face Washington and Lee upon their arrival here on May 5th. These men have completed their outlines and are now working hard filling it in with good facts and reasoning. This debate will be held in Shearer Hall and the public is cordially invited. Let us make them feel that we are backing them up just as we do our baseball team. They are working just as hard and probably there is not as much pleasure in it as there is in playing ball and other athletic sports. The whole student body wishes for them the greatest of success.

SOCIETY TEAMS CHOSEN IN JUNIOR-SENIOR PRELIM.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held the preliminaries for the Junior-Senior debate on Tuesday, April 15. Only one contestant, O. P. Hart, undertook to uphold the affirmative, whereas there were three champions for the negative, D. M. Chalmers, T. H. Spence, and C. B. Alexander. The question was: “Resolved, That the United States should adopt the Initiative, Referendum, and Recall.”

O. P. Hart urged that much-needed reforms in legislation on child labor, taxation, etc., would be quickly brought on by this measure, quoting as authority Judge Ben B. Lindsay and others. D. M. Chalmers stated that this proposal is not practical, and that the United States is too large for it to succeed. T. H. Spence showed that it would entail greatly increased costs, especially at elections, and that states where it has been tried are no better off than others. C. B. Alexander spoke from the standpoint of a student of government and based his arguments on the theory of democratic government.

The judges, Profs. Reed, Woods, and Garnault, decided that Chalmers, Spence, and Alexander should compose the team with Hart as alternate. In the Eumenean Society, composed of R. L. Liston, C. O. McGirt, and E. A. Woods, there being no alternate, was chosen without a preliminary contest.

He thought her teeth were like the stars
That twinkle very bright—
Like Venus, Saturn, Neptune, Mars—
They come out every night.
—Exchange.

Our Contemporaries

Ring Tum Phi: The preliminaries of the debate with Davidson were held last week. An R. O. T. C. unit is being organized with a captain in charge.

Trinity Chronicle: In the annual track meet, the Fresh won with a snug lead of 20 points. The Greensboro College for Women sends its Glee Club over for a delightful concert.

Guilfordian: In a fast game at Cone Park, Guilford defeated A. and E. to the tune of 3 to 2. A splendid cantata has been staged by the Girls’ Glee Club which was a real treat.

Mississippian: The University is to be allowed the privilege of sending two representatives to Oxford as Rhodes scholars. The Y at its last meeting discussed the different phases of mission work.

Orange and Black: The class in statistics reveals the fact that the most potent aid for Oklahoma's A. and M. is its loyal alumni, catalogue, annual, and the weekly newspaper.

Technique: Tech continues her dash for the S. I.A. A. championship by twice defeating Auburn. "The Technique is squarely behind the movement to get a larger delegation of Y. men at Blue Ridge."

"FRIENDLY ENEMIES" WAS COMEDY FEATURE OF MOVIES

The movies Saturday night evoked more applause than ever before. The first two reels disclosed a comedy of the slap-stick variety, "Friendly Enemies." The next two showed Liberty Bond parades in Los Angeles. The fifth reel was a dramatized story in which the hero had to push his lady fair a mile or more in a tin Lizzie whereof the gas tank was empty. Notwithstanding the lady applied the brakes every few feet or so, the story ended happily, fading out on a long and blissful kiss.

EASTER EGG HUNT GIVEN FOR BARIUM SPRINGS

Under the supervision of Dr. Sentelle, the intermediate department of the Sunday school went up to Barium Springs Monday afternoon. The trip was accompanied by a welcome surprise to the children at Barium Springs in the form of an Easter egg hunt, which was enjoyed as much by the party from Davidson as by the children at Barium Springs.

REPORTERS' CLUB FEED A HOWLING SUCCESS

The Davidsonian Reporters’ Club feed in Chambers was a howling success, for the freshmen were not beaten at all. However, it was a swell (ing) affair so far as 25 of the 1 1-4 score men present were concerned. Spence was elected toastmaster and his knowledge of the duties of that official seemed to be about on par with a bushman’s acquaintance with finger bowls. The table groaned (we had to use it—it's custom) beneath its load, for a very brief space of time, while those present were arguing as to the proper method of giving the signal to begin. When this dispute was finally settled and the party fell to or rather grabbed two handsful, a rare exhibition of cramming was given. Not even on the night before Soph Math exam has its equal been seen. In spite of the vigilance of the prohibition officer, a supply of dopes had been smuggled in and were drunk next. Having drowned his cares and incidentally his temporary neighbor in this soda (?) water, Jap Cummings pulled a joke. No one knew it at that time, however, so he was not censored for unbecoming gaiety on so sad an occasion—for the feed. Many other things happened at the meeting but they are press secrets and a reporter must always keep his news from everyone—even his best girl—until he sees her. The crowd broke up, each one declaring that he had enjoyed his own hospitality very much.

Smart, Stylish Suits

"Do you think you could learn to love me?" asked the young man.
"Well—I don’t know," replied the sweet young thing, thoughtfully. "—I have $5,000 in Liberty stock—"
"Go on. I’m learning."
"And $50,000 in well-paying real estate."
"All right, dear. I surely do. Believe me, you are some teacher."—Yonkers Statesman.

FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

——EVERYTHING IN MEN'S WEAR
ED. MELLON CO.

BOYS! Now that hot weather is here, keep cool by wearing Stoors-Schaefer Kool Kloths made especially for you, from the very latest patterns. We guarantee satisfaction on every deal.
GILBERT & McARN

Sunday:
Leave Mooresville, Drug Store
Davidson, White Drug Co.
Huntersville, Post Office
Arrive Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store

Leave Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store
Huntersville,
Arrive Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store

This gives the people along this route the opportunity to attend the shows and return home that night. Your patronage solicited.

The Camp Greene Transit Company will commence a Passenger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte on Tuesday, April 1, 1919, on the following schedule, daily except Sunday:
1:40 P.M. 6:00 P.M.
2:00 6:20
2:30 6:30
3:30 7:50
4:00 P.M. 11:00 P.M.
5:00 12:00
5:30 12:30 A.M.
6:50 12:50

Respectfully,
Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com. Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.