The DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1919

Yes, The Allies Should Intervene in Russia!
Discussion of Russian Affairs Occupy Societies' Attention.

Program for Saturday night, February 8:
Query: "Resolved, That the Bill Giving Ireland Home Rule Should be put into Effect at Once."

Eumenean:
Affirmative: Liston Dendy, Boyd Cellar
Negative: Baba Brittenhart, Atkinson Craig, S. P.
Orations: Drake McCloy, J. D. Robson, G. M.

Philanthropic—(Class No. 33)
Affirmative: Boney Caldwell, Lafar Rogers
Negative: Holmes Poole, R. H.
Orations: McKeithen, L. B. Tufts Pharr
Extemporaneous Debate:
Affirmative: Kornegay
Negative: Howell

Phi's Elect Marshalls.
A very interesting program was carried out in the Phi Society Saturday night. The subject for debate was: "Resolved, That the Allies Should Actively Intervene in Russia." Long, Brown, and Wool vigorously upheld the affirmative side of the question by showing: first, that international law permits intervention; second, duty demands intervention; third, it is necessary from a military standpoint; fourth, it would be an insurance of peace, justice, and right; and fifth, it would help establish democracy. The negative, supported by Spence, Keith, and Freeman, replied by saying: first, nothing would be accomplished; second, history shows that Russia should be left alone; and third, there is no need for intervention. The committee decided unanimously in favor of the affirmative.

H. A. Hill gave a very humorous declamation on "The Feast of the Monkeys," which added quite a bit to the amusement of the regular program. Following this, J. H. McKeithan delivered a declamation on "Behind Time." T. C. Stone gave an oration on "Divorce," in which he brought forward some deep logic on the subject. J. K. Foster gave a declamation on "The Irish Question." An extemporaneous debate followed on the important subject, "Resolved, That the broom is more efficient than the vacuum cleaner." Roberts and Booker debated (?) the question, the former being declared the winner. D. P. McGeachy and J. L. Parks were initiated into the society. The following marshalls were elected: O. P. Hart, T. C. Stone, D. W. Roberts, and L. B. McKeithen.

Successful Meeting of Eus.
The third meeting of the Eumenean Society was highly successful. The program was rendered with life and enthusiasm, and humor was not lacking. Two new members were initiated—W. W. Moore and A. R. Craig, while the names of A. L. Wilson and H. B. Brown were passed on for membership. On account of the lack of time, the usual initiation ceremonies were dispensed with.

The debate was opened by J. C. McCaskill, who gave an excellent presentation of the question under discussion. He defined active intervention as the giving of military, political, and economic aid to Russia. M. R. Doubles was the first speaker on the negative. He referred to Noah Webster as authority for making "Intervene actively" refer only to invasion or intervention by force, military force. The next speaker for the affirmative was C. E. Cunningham. Cornelson, of the negative, then spoke of the question in a general way. W. R. Booth next spoke of the economic aspects of the question, bringing out some good points for the affirmative. Philipps got in some humor in his speech and was vigorously applauded. G. M. Robson closed the debate for the affirmative with a splendid exposition of the necessity for crushing Bolshevism. Ormond made the last speech for the negative. He brought out the points that the Russians had a government, the Bolsheviki, that intervention would be contrary to the principles of the Allied nations, and that it would be too great an undertaking. The rebuttals were full of pep. Both the house and the judges decided in favor of the affirmative.

Bitzer gave a declamation, taken from Wilson's flag-day address. McFadden gave Lincoln's second inaugural address. It was moved that C. B. Robson be given credit for his oration, owing to the limited time. This motion was passed. Discussion concerning the marshalls' regalia was put off until the next meeting.

FIRST BASKETBALL GAME.
(Continued from page)
...been working well together and look to be the best pair on the floor when playing together. The same applies to the Ormond brothers. Having played together before, they work in unusual harmony. Askew is playing a much better game than he did in class ball and under coaching is sure to give a good account of himself. Alexander and Harrington have been out of the game on account of injuries but their return is expected shortly. Cunningham, at center, is not finding. He will have to play harder if he is to cinch...his position. The running is so easy. Denny has been shifted to center and is playing his new position well. Finley is not playing the game he did in class hall but is possibly in a slump and will show up better after more practice. The fight for the guard positions is the most exciting on the floor. Schenck is playing a steady guarding game and is causing his forward no end of misery. Chalmers is playing a much more scientific game than he did in class ball and is developing rapidly under coaching. Brice and A. R. Craig are not playing the hard game that they did before and will have to come back if they are to be in the running. Price continues to play the same defensive game. Doubles has been alternating at guard and forward and finds the going rather rough. The schedule has not been arranged fully yet. On account of lack of funds, few games will be played on the home floor. The season will probably open with a game in Charlotte this coming Saturday night with either the Charlotte “Y” or the Base Hospital. The Virginia invasion will begin on Thursday, February 13. Following are the games to be played on that trip:

13th Washington and Lee
14th VPI
15th Roanoke College
17th Guilford
18th Trinity College
19th Elon College
20th

There will be a few games on the local floor later on in the season. With Coach Fetzer and “Bob” Miles whipping the team into shape and “Bob” Allison working out a dandy schedule, all the team needs is the support of the student body and this season will prove to be a hummer.

LIEUT. WM. G. MORRISON A VISITOR ON CAMPUS

First Lieut. William G. Morrison, ‘16, a very popular and beloved Davidson alumnus, was an interesting as well as distinguished visitor of Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Martin last Monday. He came to Davidson in 1912 and graduated in 1916. He was a friend to all his fellow students, being known as “Preacher,” and everyone had the greatest respect for him. He carried away with him a great many honors, winning the Fresh-Soph declaimer’s medal, President of the Athletic Association, member of track team and Orchestra and Glee Club. He enlisted in the Army in Memphis, in the air service, and went over July 23, 1917. “We were with the first pursuit group and with the fighting squadron patrolled the lines,” said Lieutenant Morrison. He received his flying training in England and France. “Three and one-half miles is the highest I have ever been,” he said. He was wounded very severely and for a while was reported dead, but his many friends are glad to see him back at home again.

This is the story of his accident as told by Lieutenant Morrison himself: “I fell 12,000 feet. Evidently, I was performing too many stunts when I fell. I became unconscious while falling. I landed in the Atlantic Ocean 700 yards from the shores of France. Fortunately, my safety belt broke or I would have been drowned. By my belt breaking, my body came to the surface, and, as good luck would have it, my head caught on the wreckage of the machine and was thus held above water. I was rescued by some boys who were swimming. Was I hurt? Yes, my back was nearly broken, the ligaments of one leg were torn out, my face was torn and I bit my tongue nearly in two. I was in the hospital for months. This was during the Chateau Thierry action.”

A Reflection of good taste. Every time you look in a glass you'll pat yourself on the back for ordering a real BEAU BRUMMEL SUIT as tailored by the Storrs-Schaeffer Co., of Cincinnati.

Here’s a “Tip” Get in early while our stock of woolens and Kool Kloths are complete, and get that suit for JUNIOR SPEAKING and remember You Do Not take a Chance For we guarantee the suit to please you in every way or you do not take it. Fair enough isn’t it? Walk into 13 Chambers first floor North Wing and let us show you our line.

GILBERT and McARN Representatives

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics We hope to have the opportunity of showing you

EVERYTHING IN MEN'S WEAR

ED. MELLON CO.