Union Sem. News

J. E. Cousar Honored

Major Somerville Exercises Theologians In Undignified Manner.

Mr. James English Cousar, Jr., '14, of Bishopville, S. C., is the winner this year of the Moses D. Hoge
Fellowship for Post-Graduate study in Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. This is the highest distinction within the gift of the
Seminary to an undergraduate. It is awarded annually to some member of the Senior class on the ground of preeminent
merit, and secures for him the privilege of a fourth year of special study on salary. It is a fact
of interest that of the nineteen men who have won this honor since the fellowship was established about twenty years
ago, ten have been graduates of Davidson College, namely: W. W. Arrowood, '03; W. W. Thompson, Jr., '05; R. K.
Timmons, '05; Robert King, '06; J. K. Parker, '08; W. C. McLauchlin, '07; B. R. Lacy, Jr., '06; H. S.
Turner, '13; Chas. L. King, '19, and Jas. E. Cousar, Jr. '14.

Since the demobilization began, a number of former Davidsonians who have been released from service in the army and navy
have returned to Union Seminary, Richmond, and resumed their work in preparation for the ministry. One of these is Maj.
Walter G. Somerville, ex-'16, a member of the Middle class. One of the picturesque sights on the Seminary campus every
afternoon is the long lines of students in open formation going through the vigorous setting up exercises of the army
under Major Somerville’s direction.

* * *

Letter From Union.

Davidsonian Readers:

Greetings from Davidson’s sons at Union. We are here twenty-nine strong forming, as you see, about one-half the student body.
It is almost like being back at Davidson, and when The Davidsonians arrive—well—it reminds one very much of a Wednesday
afternoon on the Hill. We regret that we have not several Davidson men who would be here in normal times,
and our sorrow was great when we heard that D. M. Orgain had been called from this life, for we
were looking forward to having him with us. Maj. W. G. Somerville and Sgt. O. C. Williamson have come to
us from the army, and K. J. Foreman has come from the navy. Major Somerville returns to be with the
Middlers and Williamson and Foreman the Juniors. We have all survived the “flu” and are now enjoying “Billy” Sunday as
he preaches to thousands each day in the City Auditorium. Union is expecting great things from Davidson and looks for
a large number of the Senior class to join us next year. During the past two years, C. L. King,
in 1917-18, and J. E. Cousar, in 1918-19, were awarded the Hoge Fellowship entitling them to another year’s study here.

Several Davidson men have been here attending the mid-winter course for active ministers. In the regular classes of the Seminary
are: Hoge Fellow, Chas. L. King, '14; Senior, F. M. Bain, '14; F. F. Baker, '13; M. A. Boggs, '15;
J. E. Cousar, '14; A. R. Howland, '15; Norman Johnson, '15; W. A. McIlwaine, '15; D. McD. Monroe, '16; W.
C. Rourk, ex-'16; H. A. Scott, '16; J. T. Williams, '16; D. C. Young, '15. Middlers, L. H. Eikel, '16;
J. K. Hobson, '17; J. L. McBride, ex-'18; H. S. Morgan, '17; R. H. Ratchford, '17; W. G. Somerville, ex-'16.
Juniors, W. L. Baker, '18; W. C. Cumming, '18; W. C. Frierson, '18; K. J. Foreman, '18; J. L. Fowle,
'18; W. B. Knox, ex-'18; M. D. Maxwell, '14; R. E. McClure, ex-'19; O. C. Williamson, '18.

“Red” Nesbit Travels.

Lieut. E. P. Nesbit, '17, writes from overseas that he has recently been on a visit to Nancy and Metz,
and expects to spend a week in Nice soon. “Red” was commissioned in the Second Officers’ Training Camp at Fort
Oglethorpe, Ga., 1917. He went across last summer, and of his part in the fighting he says: “Our division saw
five weeks at the front and was there when the armistice was signed. We stayed in our positions for a
month and then moved back here (Monorville).”

WATCHING THE RHINE.

The following is part of a letter received on the campus from “Scrub” Hollandsworth, ex-'19. “Scrub” enlisted in the Marines
in December, 1917, and has now been across the “big ditch” nearly a year.

“Somewhere in Germany, Dec. 17,

“I am glad you are back at Davidson, and only wish I could be there tonight, but suppose I must
spend a few more months on the Rhine.

“I came across last March and have been on the go ever since. We have had some hard fights during
the last summer. It was not my privilege to do any fighting, as I was transferred to the Supply Company
right after coming over. We were by no means out of danger, always a few kilometers behind the front lines,
in good reach of the artillery. And believe me, it always reached us, too. Well, I am glad those days
are over and all can go about with some ease.

“This trip over here has been a wonderful experience for me and I would not have missed it for anything.
We have sure made some kilometers and most of them on foot. We crossed the Rhine after hiking over three
hundred kilometers, crossing southern Belgium, Luxemburg, and a part of Germany. We were on the road for:One month, some days
making as high as forty kilometers. We passed over some fine country and some rough, lots of pretty scenery. We
crossed the Rhine, December 13, exactly one year to the date that I joined the Marine Corps. The Germans seem
glad to see us and cannot do enough for us. We are in a remote town out from the Rhine
by the name of Artwied.

"Give my best regards to all the boys.
"Pvt. Charles J. Hollandsworth,
"Supply Co., 5th Marines, A.E.F."

MAJOR SOMERVILLE.

The Davidsonian expects to print in its Alumni columns in this and the next several issues a brief biography of
every Davidson alumnus who has risen in the service as high in position as captaincy. These men deserve the mention
and attention of their fellow alumni and the present student body. Davidson is not a military institution, but she is
justly proud of her sons who have won honors in the army and on the field of battle.

* * *

W. G. Somerville, ex-'16, entered Davidson as a “Soph” in the fall of 1913. At once he launched forth into
class athletics, the literary society, and other phases of college activity. He became known by everyone as “Summertime.” Like the
Greek minstrels of old, he could always entertain a crowd with “a line,” whether in the Eumenean Society Hall, in
front of Rumple, or by acting “Billy” Sunday as a “pep” leader at a football game. His enthusiasm lent a
big part in assuring the success of the first Davidsonian and in giving the Y.M.C.A. the needed driving power under
his presidency. It was with regret to everyone that he left in the spring of 1916 to become State Bank
Examiner. The larger part of the student body accompanied him to the station and sent him off with cheers, a
manifestation of the esteem in which he was held by his fellows.

Somerville entered Union Seminary in the fall of 1916, but later, at the opening of our war with Germany, enlisted
and went to the First Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Meyer, Va., from which he was graduated August 15, 1917.
His first assignment was with the 155th Depot Brigade, at Camp Lee, commanding the 35th company. This was followed by
being made adjutant of a colored battalion. He was made captain December 31, 1917, and placed in command of the
34th company. In March he was sent to Fort Sill, Okla., for a course in technical liaison (the theory and
operation of all means of communication) and was returned to Camp Lee as Instructor in the School of Arms. When
this school was discontinued in July, 1918, Captain Somerville was returned to his old company, the 34th, and on September
18 he was promoted to the rank of major.

In October, with thirteen other majors, he was sent to a Machine Gun School at Camp Hancock, Ga., and was
there when the armistice was signed. He immediately applied for a discharge and entered Union Seminary to continue his theological
course.

* * *

Coyte Hunter, ex-’19, is observing “The Watch on the Rhine.” His address is Trench Company 6, just C.A.P.R.P.L.O. 754, A.E.F.

* * *

Ben R. Lacy, ‘06, has received the honor of captaincy in infantry, so The News and Observer states. It is
going some when a chaplain becomes captain.

Miss Douglas entertained the Book Club last Friday. Mrs. Black read a very interesting paper, “The Religious Awakening in France.”
The mother and sister of Robinson LaFar motored here Saturday. Robinson returned with them for the weekend.

Other College Papers

The Davidsonian has received a number of exchanges deserving of mention. The Lawrentian, the official organ of Lawrence College, Wisconsin,
is one of the best college weeklies on the list. It is a twelve-page paper well gotten up.

* * *

According to The Tech, the Freshmen and Sophomores engaged in a battle royal last week.

* * *

The Skull and Bones from the Virginia Medical College brings the news that Billy Sunday has been shaking up the
future doctors.

* * *

Washington & Lee has started its basketball season by taking four straight games. The Ring-tum Phi says that the R.O.T.C.
there is a crip so far.

* * *

The Guilfordian tells us that the college is just getting over a second attack of “flu.” The basketball team lost
its first game to the Greensboro Y.M.C.A. 39-24.

* * *

Two prep school publications, combined newspapers and magazine, came in. They are both well gotten up and very interesting. They
are The Oracle, from Woodberry Forest School, and Peacock Bulletin, from the Peacock Military Institute, San Antonio, Tex.

* * *

The following Exchanges are gratefully acknowledged: Winthrop Weekly News, The Flat Hat, The Orange and Black, The Mississippian, The Cadet,
The Tar Heel, Wo-Co-da News, The Tiger, Old Gold and Black.

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South’s Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18,
20 and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N.C. E. N. BOOKER, Agt.

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics
We hope to have the opportunity of showing you

——EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR——

ED. MELLON CO.
