4 OUR ROLL OF HONOR. (Continued from page 1)

October, 1918. Lieutenant Montgomery lived in Atlanta, Ga., prior to his entry into the service. In Atlanta, he was well known, especially in the religious activities of his church there. Feeling that his country was calling him, he entered the first Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga., where he received his commission. Shortly after being commissioned, he received overseas orders and gladly went to do his “bit.”

T. N. Morton
Tazewell Norwell Morton graduated with the class of '18 last May 29. “T. N.,” just a few hours after receiving his diploma in Shearer Biblical Hall, went down to Charlotte and enlisted in the Coast Artillery Service. He was assigned to duty with Battery B of the 52nd Coast Artillery and was sent overseas immediately. In the mid-fall of 1918, he died of disease contracted after being wounded. He was always exceedingly good-natured and friendly and so gained a host of real friends among his fellows. It was with much regret that the student body heard of the death of one of their own classmates. Morton's home was in Oxford, N.C.

Lieut. Ervin D. Shaw
When the United States entered the war, one of the first young men from the State of South Carolina to answer the call to the colors was Ervin D. Shaw, ex-'15, of Sumter, S.C. He went to Columbus, Ohio, to prepare himself for the Aviation Corps at Ohio State University. After finishing his course there, he entered the Aviation Corps of the British Army with the rank of first lieutenant. After getting “across,” he was stationed at Oxford and in Scotland, and up to the time of his death was with the British Air Service. On July 9, 1918, while on a scouting expedition alone, he was attacked by three Hun machines, and though he put up a brave fight, he was overpowered and shot down. A comrade writing to his mother and testifying to his absolute fearlessness and coolness while in action, says that when he “was ordered back of the line fifteen miles on a very dangerous reconnaissance, he went back eighteen or twenty miles to bring in a better and more accurate report.” Lieutenant Shaw was a Davidson alumnus, and while we regret to hear of the death of one of our number, it makes us all feel proud of one who was such a brave and gallant hero, giving his life and paying the supreme sacrifice for the country we all love.

Lieut. James M. Douglass
It was with deep regret that all Davidson men heard of the death of Lieut. James McCants Douglass, '10. On October 14, 1918, Lieutenant Douglass was a victim of pneumonia following influenza. Lieutenant Douglass was born in Winnsboro, S.C., July 14, 1889. He graduated from Davidson College with the class of 1910, later entering the law school at the University of South Carolina. He was a member of the law firm of Douglass & Douglass, at Winnsboro, until he enlisted in the First Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe. He was commissioned a lieutenant and was stationed at Camp Jackson until July 1, when he was ordered to Fort Sill, Okla., to take a course in the School of Fire. Since September, he had been attached to the 63rd Regiment of Field Artillery at El Paso, Tex. Lieutenant Douglass was admired and beloved by all who knew him. He was an active member of the Presbyterian Church at Winnsboro, having been a member of the board of deacons and also president of the Senior Christian Endeavor. He was scoutmaster of the Winnsboro Boy Scouts and exerted an uplifting influence over all his boys.

Lieut. Pressly R. Brown
The friends of Lieut. Pressly R. Brown, ex-'06, were sorry to learn of his death in France. He was a student at Davidson in the class of 1906, although he did not graduate with his class, as he left college at the close of his Junior year. Lieutenant Brown was in the Medical Corps of the Army and was the first officer from Mecklenburg County to give his life for the Allied cause. He was 34 years of age, having been born in Sharon Township, in Mecklenburg County, in 1884. He practiced medicine for two years at Jackson Springs, N.C., and later at Graham, N.C. He entered the service in December 1917, and was stationed at Camp Merritt, N.J., and sailed for France about January 1, 1918.

Lieut. John C. Paisley
Lieut. John Cannon Paisley, of Gibbonsville, N.C., graduated with the class of 1917, and was commissioned first lieutenant at the second Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. He was later sent to France and gave his life for his country on the afternoon of June 21, while leading his company in a desperate charge. As a Davidson man, he was loved by all his fellow students. He was a leader in the social and athletic life of the campus. Maj. W. G. Langwell, in a letter to Lieutenant Paisley’s father, says: “Your son was an excellent soldier, a beloved comrade, and a born leader. In his first and only battle, he led his men like a veteran, was skillful, brave, and successful. He gave his life in the performance of his duty and I shall always feel that his spirit is with the regiment to encourage the rest of us to ‘carry on.’ He was loved by his men and associate officers. His body was carried back and buried, after a brief service, in the rear of his command, while the German artillery sounded the funeral march.”

Harry F. Shaw
Harry Faison Shaw, ex-'18, was born in Wilmington, N.C. He entered Davidson College with the class of 1917 but dropped out and returned with the class of 1918. He was popular among his fellow students and took an active part in student activities while on the campus. “He was a typical American and was loved by all the officers and men who were associated with him,” are the words written to his mother on his death in the U.S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, N.Y., by a captain in the N.M.C. Ensign Shaw died of bronchopneumonia on the afternoon of December 19, 1918. He was a member of the U.S. Naval Reserve Corps.

J. S. Bachman
News came last fall of the death of J. S. Bachman, Jr. '18, who died of pneumonia in Norfolk, October 17. Joe was one of those who graduated in last year's class, and this fall joined the Navy. He was stationed at the Naval Training School at Norfolk, where his death occurred after a very short illness. His remains were carried to Bristol, Tenn., for burial. Funeral services were conducted at the home of his parents by Dr. C. C. Carson, assisted by Rev. Robert L. Bachman, Jr., a relative of the deceased. Before burial, his remains were covered by the flag for which he died. Joe is remembered by his friends for his sunny disposition and loyalty. Joe had a way of making everyone know that he was a friend. He was a goodStudent and faithful in his duties. In his death, all have lost a true friend, and the college a loyal alumnus.

Lieut. Samuel R. Keesler

Among the gold stars on Davidson's service flag is one which stands in memory of Lieut. Samuel R. Keesler, Jr., Aviation Section, A.E.F., who graduated here with the class of 1917. “Sam” Keesler will be remembered by every Davidson man who was in college with him, and his name will be familiar to Davidson alumni in general. He was known here as a leader in every phase of college activity. He was known throughout the South as one of the best quarterbacks in intercollegiate football, being the general of Coach Fetzer's “machine” for three of the most successful years of its history, and this success was due largely to “Sam's” leadership on the field. He was also a member of the baseball team for two years.

It was characteristic of “Sam” that he was among the first of Davidson's sons to hear and answer the call of his country. Shortly before commencement in 1917, he entered the First Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga., and was commissioned a second lieutenant three months later. He was assigned to duty with the 324th Infantry, Camp Jackson, S.C. It was also characteristic of “Sam” that at the first opportunity he chose service as an aviator. He was transferred from Camp Jackson to Fort Sill, Okla., where he received the three months’ Ground School course for aerial observer. From Fort Sill, he went to Mineola Field (N.Y.), where he received further training in aviation. From Mineola, he was sent to France, and after final training there was assigned to the Aero Squadron duty, with the long-distance naval guns. In letters to his parents in Greenwood, Miss., he mentioned a number of flights made into German territory. On October 10, 1918, he was reported missing in action. From information available, it is apparent that his plane was brought down while in action behind the German lines. According to a telegram from the adjutant general to his father, he died October 10, in a field hospital at Lanuturiere, due to wounds in the abdomen and breast, received during aerial combat.

We remember “Sam” Keesler here at Davidson as a true type of gentleman, scholar, athlete, friend—a man all the way through.

Donald M. Wearn

Donald M. Wearn, ex-'19, entered Davidson in September 1915, and remained through the fall term of his Sophomore year. He died in October 1918, of pneumonia, following influenza, in a Red Cross hospital in France. Shortly after war was declared, Donald Wearn enlisted in the Army and was assigned to the Fifth Coast Artillery, at Fort Caswell. He was sent overseas in the latter part of May 1917, and served with the Anti-Aircraft Section of the Army until stricken with influenza. Those who knew him here remember him as a young man of excellent habits, winning personality, and bright intellect. Few were ahead of him in answering the call of his country. We regret that he was not with us longer. His spirit of patriotism was very strong, and it sent him into the service among the first of our number. He gave his life for his country, more than which no man can do.

Dean M. Orgain

News was received of the death of Deane M. Orgain, ‘18, which occurred Sunday, October 27, in the base hospital at Norfolk, Va. Orgain had joined the Navy late in July and had been stationed at the Naval Training School at Norfolk. Some time later he was affected with Spanish influenza, which developed into pneumonia from which he died. His home was in Danville, Va. Deane came to Davidson as a Sophomore in 1915, having spent the previous year at Hampden-Sydney College. He returned to Davidson for his Junior and Senior years and graduated last May with the A.B. degree, proving himself a good student in his work. During his three years on the Davidson Campus, Deane’s earnestness, reliability, and high Christian spirit won him many warm friends. One who knew him intimately has said that he possessed all the gentleness and the purity in mind and speech of a woman and was in all his habits a consecrated Christian. He took a leading part in the Ministerial Band and religious work on the campus and in country Sunday Schools. When he graduated in May, Deane had the intention of entering Union Seminary this fall, but later, feeling it his duty, enlisted in the Navy.

D. R. Poole

David Reid Poole, ex-'19, is, so far as is known, the first Davidson man to lay down his life in his country’s service. He was born near Mooresville, N.C., on November 18, 1894, and spent his youth there and at Mt. Ulla, N.C. When the class of ‘19 entered Davidson College, Poole was among their number. He stayed in college until September 1917, when he was drafted into service and went to Camp Jackson, S.C. Here he remained for three months until, in December, during the meningitis epidemic, he exposed himself to the disease by nursing a stricken comrade and so was attacked by it. On December 15, after a short illness, he died, his body being buried at Mooresville. While at Davidson, Reid was a conscientious student and gave most of his time to his books. However, he did not fail to give evidence of his athletic prowess by making the class football team and in track and tennis. He was a candidate for the ministry, under the care of Concord Presbytery, and the church suffered a great loss when he was called to make the supreme sacrifice for his country.

Lieut. Frank H. Smith

On the 5th of October, on the aviation field at Fort Worth, Tex., Lieut. Frank H. Smith, '16, was killed in an aeroplane accident. Graduating at the age of eighteen, Frank Smith was one of the finest and smartest men that has attended Davidson College. Dignified of appearance, sterling of character, brilliant of intellect, generous of heart, a splendid orator, a popular, all-round man—those who knew him in college remember him, and with the deepest of respect. There was many an exclamation of heartfelt regret that such a splendid life should be snuffed out just as its time of usefulness to the world had arrived. Smith graduated at Davidson in '16 with first honors. He taught at McCallie the next year and enlisted in the Aviation Corps about a year ago. After special training at Georgia Tech., he was sent to Taliaferro Field, Fort Worth, Tex., where he flew for four months. Everyone who knew Lieutenant Smith admired him and recognized him as a great leader.

Dr. W. B. Arrowood, ‘76

The Rev. W. B. Arrowood, D.D., of Sharon, S.C., an honor member of the class of 1876, died on January 18, 1919. He was the Salutatorian and was honored and respected by his classmates and the college as a whole. Since the reunion in 1916, there have been three deaths reported in the class.

Dick’s Laundry
Greensboro, N.C.
G. W. Black, Agt.
Have your laundry Monday night