The DAVIDSONIAN, March 19, 1919

YES SHE DOES—BUT WAIT, NO SHE DON’T!

The Bible classes last Sunday had to run more or less on their reputation. The fellows seemed to have been unable to catch up as yet with those hours of sleep lost on account of that memorable event, Junior Speaking. And, say, old Georgia led the crowd! Yes, 17 were out in her honor, and for once the Georgians may boast that they were the most faithful in attendance. Of course, you guys that slept need not appropriate any of the credit. Hey, whoa! Not so fast! Here's where an oversight was made. Rumple led with 18—my mistake. Beg your pardon, Rumpleites. Watts had 14, Chambers, South End, had 16; North Extremity had 13. On the whole, it was rather small, but let's hope more fellows can be awakened, literally and figuratively, for next Sunday. The Sunday schools had 15 present and an attendance of 183.

MR. BRANSCOMBE HELPS SETTLE JOB PROBLEM

The World Forum meeting last Thursday evening was both interesting and instructive. Mr. Branscombe, from the Southern headquarters of the Y. M. C. A., discussed a question of vital importance to every college fellow—What shall my life-work be? Mr. Branscombe showed how important this question is to us, and of what great consequence it is for our success or failure in life. He then pointed out five considerations which should guide us in choosing our life work:

First, we should try to find what appeals to us, what we really love to do. Second, we should seek that life-work in which we could be of most service. That life which serves most is most sacred. Taken in this light, our life work, in whatever line it may be, should be sacred to us. Third, we should choose a job that is bigger than we are now and grow to it. We cannot grow in our work if it is not bigger than we are. Fourth, we should seek that work in which we can mean most. No man should be satisfied with work that does not offer the opportunity for his biggest service to his fellow man. Fifth, we should seek that task which the world most needs done. In this task we will be happy, for this work is consecrated to Christ's service. We saw some of the great needs in the ministry and the great challenge of its call. There were about 40 fellows out for the meeting. Every one of them enjoyed the talk and derived much benefit from it.

PRACTICE GAME PLAYED WITH TEAM FROM TOWN

Coach Fetzer is gradually getting his nine into shape. Last Saturday the first scrub game was played against the town, the game ending in a 3-3 tie. Everyone showed up well. The job of twirling is contested for by Clarke, Curry, Murray, and Miley. “Railroad” Clarke seems to be the best of the four. “Cop” Johnson and “Red” Sullivan are fighting it out for the place behind the bat. First base is being held down by McArn, but “Pig Iron” Sutton is playing well in spite of a bad eye. Ratchford, at second, and Boswell, at short, are playing like veterans. Third is being taken care of by Sample and Cassell. Out in the field, Spann, Miley, and Richards are doing fine work. There is some good material among the scrubs also. “Red” Miley, “Rooster” McFadden, Pat Robson, and Montgomery.are showing up especially well. It’s a trifle late now, but it would have been nice if after we sing The Star-Spangled Banner, everybody recited the Monroe Doctrine in chorus.

DAVIDSON BOY CITED FOR BRAVERY

The following citation appears in the Overseas military reports: Corpl. Louis E. Johnston, Machine Gun Company, 120th Infantry. (A. S. No. 1319169.) For extraordinary heroism in action near Mazinghien, France, October 18-19, 1918. When his platoon became separated from the battalion to which it was attached, Corporal Johnston proceeded under heavy shell fire along a road with which he was unfamiliar and established liaison with his battalion. Home address: J. A. Johnston, father, Davidson, N.C.

ONLY IN DREAMS.
(Being a tale of things as they ought to be.)

“The general handed out furloughs,
Reports were a thing of the past.
Messes lay round like Piedmont butts.
Holidays came thick and fast.

There was real ice cream in the mess hall,
Growly had flown away,
Pie came to the table in relays
Roast turkey was served once a day.

Penalty tours were abandoned,
The voice of the sentinel ceased.
Lates were regarded as honors,
Suspensions of duty increased.

The last notes of reveille faded.
The Keydet sprang from his hay.
Rubbed with his hands those sleepy eyes,
And frightened his dream away.”

—S.

AS TIMES CHANGE.

A doughboy was sitting pensively in a field while shells from our guns were roaring overhead like invisible mid-air express trains, and while, less noisy but more disturbing, the shells from the German guns were ending with a wail and burst all about.

“What are you thinking about, Buddy? Making your will? Are you wondering why you were ever nut enough to enlist?” someone asked him.

“No,” said the doughboy, gloomily. “I was wondering how I was ever nut enough to let a man hold me up in Chicago last spring. He only had a .32." —Stars and Stripes.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Quality and Service

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Engraved Work a Specialty. Let us convince you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643) NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery and Gifts In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT
Uniforms, Caps, Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Balls, Gloves, Masks, Etc.
Catalogue on request
A.G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., Inc. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president

John L. Douglas, Pres.
W. I. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Steen, V-Pres.
W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling