4

For Big Occasions

When you don't want to fall short of the very finest on Norris Exquisite Candies.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS TALKS BY SULLIVAN AND HUNTER.

At 6:10 o'clock on last Sunday evening, the Ministerial Band held a very interesting meeting. The attendance was good.

Sullivan and Hunter made the two talks of the evening on subjects which were of interest to all present, “The Need of Ministers” and “The Supply and Demand of Ministers.”

In treating the first of these subjects, Sullivan pointed out first, the need of ministers to save lost souls, and second, the need of the minister's uplifting influence upon human society. He showed that every good work in either home, community, or state life could be traced back to the minister. On these two needs he based a call to the ministry. “The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few.”

Hunter spoke on the “Supply and Demand of Ministers.” He showed that in this age there was a greater need of ministers than ever before. Since the war, all other religions are making increased efforts to win followers, and Christianity must in this critical time make a renewed effort. He pointed out the fact that now there are two hundred and fifty-four pulpits vacant because no one can be found to fill them, that over one thousand missionaries are needed on the foreign field, four hundred of these men, and that in the home field one hundred men are needed to supply new churches, which are being founded. He also said that this shortage in the ministry was causing an overburdening of the pastors, an unfed church, and a lagging in the Kingdom of God. As a concrete instance, he told of a Davidson alumnus who is preaching four times every Sunday and is covering a pastorate of nine hundred square miles. He closed with an urgent appeal that, in view of these facts, more of the Christian students at Davidson should enter the work of the ministry.

GREAT DISAPPOINTMENT FELT OVER INABILITY OF BOB JONES TO VISIT DAVIDSON.

Bob Jones, the famous evangelist, was expected to make an address to the student body Monday morning at chapel, the regular Sunday evening service having been postponed by the unanimous consent of the students. It was with real regret, therefore, that it was learned that he could not come to Davidson Monday.

Mr. Miles hopes to get the evangelist later on in the week, if possible. Bob Jones has made a great impression in Charlotte, where he is now holding services.

OUR NEWEST STUDENT.

Born to Professor and Mrs. W. W. Wood, a son, William Woodhull, Jr. We announce him as the youngest member of the Fresh class, and as an already regular reader of “The Davidsonian.”

We wish to call attention to the printer’s error made in last week's issue. The smaller heading of the article on Dr. Harding should have read “Has Rendered Longer Service Than Any Other Member of Faculty" instead of “Larger Service.”

In the same article, it should be “thirtieth consecutive year” instead of “thirteenth.”

21G.cYS

5c a package before the war

5c a package during the war

5c a package NOW

THE FLAVOR LASTS SO DOES THE PRICE!

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra.

GIVE ME A TRIAL

Four Suits for $1.00.

HARRIS PRESSING CLUB SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N. C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

Buy Your Electric Bulbs at Davidson Hardware Co. ASK TO SEE THE NEW “DIM-A-LITE”