The above is a picture of Senior Class, who were in the cotton fields picking cotton. They picked an average of 95 pounds each. Bottom row (sitting) left to right: R. E. McClure, R. R. Craig, T. H. Spence. Second row (kneeling): P. Taylor, D. M. Chalmers. Back row (standing): T.-H. Wilson, H. R. McConnell, L. L. Wilson, A. L. Foscue, T. W. Haw- kins, M. A. Sike, C. J. Matthews, E. R. Boney, J. G. Richards, H. Smith, C. Hunter, J. Lt. Col. A.H. Mueller (Commandant of Davidson R. O. T. C.), E. R. Boney, R. T. Allison, W. M. Hall, G. D. Sample, S. H. Askew, A. G. Robinson, L. G. Calhoun, P. B. Carwile, J. E. Sanders, P. A. Thomas, M. M. A. Tremain, O. P. Hart, F. P. Hall, L. P. Good, J. M. Jamison, R. T. Liston.

The beauties of the system. Eu. Society. The Eumeneans decided that cabinet members ought not to have seats in Congress. The affirmative argued that it would save time, give accurate information, and strengthen the administration, but the negative showed that it would overwork the cabinet members and make the administration too strong. The ever-dignified Mr. Liston opened the debate with a charming address in which he calmly and quietly set forth his points. Heizer followed with a fiery harangue which convinced a certain spot in the floor that the preceding gentleman (Liston here claimed misrepresentation) was in error. Winter then pocketed the debate, five perfectly good minutes, the audience's snores, and the critic’s mirth.

The romantic Lowry Peppy Orations delivered in Literary Societies---Debates Also Good. Phis Initiate New Men—Critic Sullivan Very Sarcastic.

PHI. SOCIETY.
PROGRAM, SATURDAY NIGHT, OCT. 18, 1919.
Query: Resolved, “That the Plumb Plan for the operation of the railroads should be adopted.”
Regular Debate:
Affirmative. Negative.
Pool, H. R. Dunlap, J. M.
Parks, L. L. Robinson, C. W.
Spence, T. H. Sample, G. D.
Declamation:
Lacy, T. A.
Oration:
Worth, C. W.
Extemporaneous Debate:
Howie, S. E. Long, C. G.

The Phi Society held its regular meeting Saturday night, October 11. In the absence of the president, the vice-president, J. M. Dunlap, handled the gavel. After the regular procedure of devotional exercises, roll call, reading of minutes, etc., the query was read out by the secretary: Resolved, That the members of the cabinet should have a voteless seat in Congress. The first man to speak in the affirmative was “Bishop” McClure. He gave the society a very conscientious recital of what he considered the proper thing to do in such cases. In colleague with him were L. L. Wilson and F. D. McLeod. Wilson was very good as far as what the society thought to be pertinent.

Matthews, C. J. Declamation: Dunlap, W. P. The decision was unsatisfactory to both sides. Poteat held that he should have received all three votes instead of two, and Booker maintained he had won but the judges “frissed” him out of the decision.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY
PROGRAM, OCT. 18
Election of Officers and Marshalls.
Extemporaneous:
Price, J. K. Phillips.
Oration:
The president now called for new members. The names of five men were submitted for vote. They were voted in. The president now instructed Booker to conduct the Freshman inside. This the gentleman did with the utmost grace—and without persuasion. The Freshmen were duly sworn in and presented a copy of the constitution by the president. Later they registered at the secretary's desk. Those initiated were: H. F. Northrope, C. W. Lewis.

EUMENEAN FRESHMAN SOCIETY, OCT. 20.
Affirmative. Negative.
Alexander. Fairey.
Crawford. Gamble.
Calhoun. Gun, H. W.
Extemporaneous:
Jones, C. F. Meacham, J. D.
Oration:
Wildman.
Declamation:
J. B. McCallum, G. D. Carr, W. B. Farmer, and H. R. Russell. As usual, Bedker moved the society adjourn, seconded and carried. He went—but he didn’t go far enough. He gave up before the required three minutes were up. McLeod was, at first, a little loath to speak, but when he saw that he had to—or else—he did very well—considering. Opposing the aforementioned gentlemen were C. N. Morrison, Brown, C. K., Nichols, L. B., Buck Currie, and A. Lyndon Foscue. All these gentlemen made such excellent attempts, one can hardly say which was best.

C. Hunter delivered an oration on the topic, “Customs in War-Time Europe.” He limited most of his speech to the customs of the feminines “over there.” He now proceeded to give lots of evidently mistook. The large brilliant globe light in the rear of the room for God’s own pure knight, Sir Galahad, the moon, considering the long yearning looks and beautiful phrases he directed toward it. Judging by the size of the hook he carried, Hyland’s debate must have been a very fine one, but he stopped for applause so often that he did not get it all read. McGukin (from Georgia) then ambled to the front with one of his whimsical smiles and very innocently inquired, “What is a seat, anyhow?” He was very promptly clapped into his, and the debate was over.

Sullivan decided to go the debaters one better in the matter of pep. He visibly referred to one speech Liston; one position Heizer; one minute preparation Winter; one swell debater Hyland; one leg Lowry, and one point McGukin. One grand criticism! McCaskill then gave a fiery little oration which seemed to involve much statistics. The society decided by a 15-14 vote to include extemporaneous debates in the program. The Junior-Senior debate will be held this fall. There will be an election of officers next meeting.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Several new books have been placed in the Davidson College Library since the opening of school, which doubtless will be of interest to many students. A few of the new volumes are Shadow of the Cathedral, by Ibanez; Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, by Ibanez; Jungle Tales of Tarzan, by Burroughs; Arrow of Gold, by Conrad; Sky Pilot, in No Man’s Land, by Connor; Old Madhouse, by De Morgan, and Desert of Wheat, by Grey. Miss Shaw also calls special attention of debaters to a new quarterly just added, entitled, The Quarterly Journal of Speech Education. The Journal gives up-to-date material valuable particularly to those preparing debates. An order of more books will be made November 1, and any who desire to have some certain book placed in the Library are requested to drop the name.

Rest thee in peace, my gallant lad,
Though far from home you sleep;
France, too, will consecrate the ground.
Her changeless stars above
And, in the air, to wrap thee ‘round,
Her lilies and her love.

The above poem was written by Dr. Lucian Lamar Knight and appears in his new book, “Memorials of Dixieland,” which is just off the press. Mr. Montgomery, in whose memory it was written, is one of Davidson's alumni who made the supreme sacrifice. He was a member of the class of 1909.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB TAKES IN SEVERAL NEW MEN.

On Thursday night the Blue Pencil Chapter of the Sigma Upsilon Fraternity initiated the following men: O. P. Hart, L. G. Calhoun, and H. C. Hamilton. The costumes in which the new members were initiated added much to the enjoyment of the spectators. After the initiation, a “feed” was enjoyed by all present.

CAMPUSISMS.

J. H. Whitner left Thursday for his temporary home in Rock Hill. C. W. Gilchrist was home several days last week having his eyes treated. J. E. Cassell and W. E. Gunn spent Saturday in Charlotte. Mrs. L. T. Lacy and daughter were on the Hill Saturday and Sunday visiting C. H. Lacy, ’21. T. H. Spence spent Saturday and Sunday at his home. George Adams, Louis Schenck, John Tamison, and Jack Taylor were among those who spent the weekend off the Hill. The drill on Saturday was called off as a reward for the excellent record made in picking cotton. The golf links are being rapidly put into shape by Dr. Arbuckle, Professor Wood, Bob Allison, and a crew of skilled laborers. The entire course is expected to be completed this week.

BERNARD McCUTCHEON SUFFERS BROKEN COLLAR BONE.

The students on the Hill were sorry to hear of the accident to Bernard McCutcheon, Wednesday afternoon, when his collar bone was fractured during the R. O. T. C. physical training period. McCutcheon, being the “wheels” in a wheelbarrow race, was running along on his hands at a good speed, when suddenly one of his hands slipped and he was thrown with great force on his left shoulder. For several minutes the accident was not discovered because McCutcheon bravely tried to pass it off as just a slight injury, but several students soon noticed that despite his efforts, it was paining him greatly. McCutcheon was hurried to the Infirmary by order of the sergeant, where it was discovered that his collar bone had been broken. The injury, although not of a serious nature, is very painful. McCutcheon will probably be kept from attending physical drill the rest of the year.

ARROW TROY TAILORED COLLARS FIT WELL—WASH EASILY
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., Troy, N. Y.

A WDC Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band, and bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order—that’s what we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer.
Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES