12 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

14 N. Tryon St. B. A. Lingle, Mgr. Charlotte, N.C.

Whatever Price You Pay---You Save $10

Trivers Smart Suits, Actually Breathing Broadway Atmosphere

From our own style factory, right in the style-creating center of Broadway, with the last word in style effect added,
these suits are now offered in complete variety for the man who wants to select from models that are classified
as strictly smart.

ALL-WOOL FABRICS USED IN TRIVERS CLOTHES

All-wool fabrics cost us more but they assure Trivers Satisfaction. Wool fabrics are our kind exclusively, last longer, retain their
shape better, stay stylish, and guarantee the well-known brand of Trivers Satisfaction or your money back. The regular Trivers prices
$20, $25, and $30 include the finest all-wool master-tailored clothes; they are clothes for every man at every man’s price.
With our Union Factory and 19 branch stores, Trivers distributes the largest and greatest clothes values in America.

Factory: 801-807 Broadway, New York City
Branch Stores in 19 Cities

ALUMNI PARAGRAPHS

ALICE KISSED ME

Spirit of unselfishness and only and sole-

Returned Soldiers Given Social
Christian Endeavors Entertained At Church

The Christian Endeavor Society of the Presbyterian Church gave a very attractive social last Thursday night to the soldiers of
Davidson who have returned from services overseas. The regular meeting room of the society was used and was beautifully decorated
with flags and flowers. After all had talked for a short while, games were started. After these, Miss Elizabeth Cranford,
the president of the society, welcomed the soldiers back, telling them how much they had been missed and how glad
and thankful the society was for their return. This was followed by a piano solo by M. A. Tremain. Then
Dr. Arbuckle made a strong appeal to the soldiers, telling them of the society’s interest in them through the years
that they had been gone and pleading for their support and interest in its work. Couples now paired off again
for conversation dates. During this time, violin duets were given by D. M. Gaston and C. E. Cunningham. After this,
refreshments were served and ice cream and cake appeared in abundance. To match off couples to go home, the boys
and girls were given flowers, previously paired off. The boy accompanied the girl who had the mate to his flower.
The social was a success in every way and reflected credit on the church, the Christian Endeavor Society, and the
social committee which labored so faithfully in preparing for it.

(Continued from page 1)

rifices; are a glorious heritage left to Davidson, which time can never dim but only serve to brighten the luster
and fame of their noble deeds.

Do you know the fighting parson of the 113th Field Artillery, Thirtieth Division—the division composed of the brave boys who
were first to break the supposedly impregnable Hindenburg line? Meet him while you are at commencement. He is a Davidson
alumnus. Many of his comrades in arms are going to be with us at Commencement, just as loyal to their
Alma Mater as they proved loyal to their country.Some of them, however, will not be with us—they will never “come
back”—for, in the performance of their duty and in defense of justice, humanity, and the civilization of the world, they
made the supreme sacrifice and are now sleeping the last sleep, in honored graves, beneath the blood-stained soil of France.

The time now seems auspicious and propitious to make the Commencement of 1919 memorable in the annals of the college.

On behalf of the college and in the name of the Alumni Association, therefore, a most cordial welcome is extended
to every alumnus to join with us then at our annual banquet, in making this Commencement a reunited reunion of
Davidson boys.

This appeal is made to you through the Davidsonian, fellow alumni, in a plea for the welfare and betterment of
our Alma Mater.

BOB MILES RETURNS
(Continued from page 1)

His work as Y. M. C. A. secretary has increased the influence of the college association a hundredfold on the
campus and has brought practically every student into contact with some one of its phases. To have him here next
year means to have a year of growth, of progress, and of success.

DR. MARTIN INVITES ALUMNI
(Continued from page 1)

Many alumni as possible will make the pilgrimage to Davidson during the commencement. The classes of ’99 and ‘14 are
planning reunions with a luncheon and other features. I hope all members will attend and let other classes do the
same. But even if your class can’t hold a reunion, come anyway. We are all one big family and we
shan’t be lonesome.

(Signed)
W. J. Martin.

KAPPA ALPHAS ENTERTAIN

Misses Janet Mellon, Mary Stuart Alexander, Elizabeth Miller, Nancy Shelton, Catherine Gilmer, Elsie Palmer, Elizabeth Dowd, Rogers Gibbon, Eloise Martin,
and Elizabeth Grey were guests of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity on last Friday afternoon. After the Trinity game, the visitors
were informally entertained at the fraternity hall, at which time light refreshments were served.

Yesterday for the first time Alice kissed me. Her rosy lips lingered on my cheeks for one heavenly instant. When
I walked to the club it was as if everyone knew of my radiant happiness. The newsboys stared at me;
an old woman winked at me; my father shook his fist at me from the car window; George and Bertie
laughed happily as they passed me on the street; five pretty girls smiled at me. When I reached the club
Jenkins looked at me and brought me a hand mirror. I do wish Alice would use paler rouge on her
lips—Washington Square Deal.

WATCH YOURSELF GO BY

Just stand aside and watch yourself go by.
Think of yourself as “he” instead of “I.”
Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man is you,
And strive to make your estimate ring true.
The faults of others then will dwarf and shrink,
Love’s chains grow stronger by one mighty link.
When you with “he” as substitute for “I”
Have stood aside and watched yourself go by.

RECKLESS GIRL

“How did Mabel catch cold?”
“Her own carelessness. She forgot that it is fashionable to wear furs this summer, and went out without them.”
