4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
E. B. CASSELL

Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr.

Assignment Editor
L. B. SICK

S. H. KEW
J. C. McCASKILL
D. M. HA.
T. H. SPENCE
L. G. CALHOUN
A. L. WILSON
J. M. GASTWAINES

Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. N. BOOKER
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
R. T. L. LISTON
J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. CRAIG
R. BITZER
B. B. BREITENHIRT
C. B. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
J. M. GILMER
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. P. PRICE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDS
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Additional reporters for this issue: Bray, Wolfork, Brown, J., Fewell, E., Thames, Menning, H. H., Davis, Fricker, A. C. Ormand, A. F. King, Smith.

Assistant Managers

EDITORIAL

Our aim: The best college weekly in the South. Are you doing your part?

We suppose the Magazine, like all good college publications, will be out on time. It was left to the “Man who gets things done” to give us the game by details. Remember: The team leaves Friday on the 7:11 and returns Monday on the 2:58. They're not discouraged, we're not either. Let's have one hundred per cent out and prove it. Start saving now and we'll all be in Charlotte on the 8th and Winston-Salem on the 15th.

Dave Roberts.

The news that Dave Roberts will not return and take up his position as editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian is received as a serious blow not only to this paper but to the whole college. Last March when the new staff and management assumed office progress was made by leaps and bounds. The size of each issue was increased beyond anything ever before attempted. A new life had been put in the work. Back of this movement was the ever-enthusiastic spirit of Dave. His whole thought was wrapped up in his work. He woke up dreaming of a “Greater Davidsonian” and went through the day with the thought still before him. Such pep will always produce results and this was no exception. Even this year while lying in bed recovering from an attack of fever he frequently wrote, offering helpful suggestions and looking forward to the time when he would again be with us. We hope that he will continue this policy and return next year to take up his work for the “Livest Wire.”

Deserving of the highest praise, comes the announcement from the faculty that its members will not be given college credit as regular R. O. T. C. work. The reason for this action is given that the band, just as the Glee club or Orchestra, is an outside activity. It is on this point that we take issue. The band is essentially a part of the military department. It is an invaluable aid in drilling and is a necessary feature of every good military unit. Practice in the Glee club and Orchestra is optional. When a candidate has to study he can cut practice and absence is marked against him. The members of the Glee club and Orchestra make several trips each year, while no such privileges are accorded to those working for the band. The presence of the band Saturday in the review distinguished it from any similar performance we have ever had. The regular college students turned out to watch it and the men themselves seemed to take some pride in this parade. It is hoped that satisfactory arrangements can be made and the ruling of the faculty can be so construed that the work of the band will in no way be hindered. The student body feels its need as is evidenced by the sacrifices they made to provide the necessary financial support. With the approaching football games its usefulness will be further increased. It has now become a reality and a necessity and we hope that nothing will be able to retard its splendid progress.

DAVIDSON SOON TO OUTRANK WEST POINT?

The R. O. T. C. under the direction of Lieutenant Colonel Muller, is making rapid progress and is now considered one of the most important factors in the college.

Rev. McNeill Now in Oklahoma

Rev. Daniel A. McNeill, of Raeford, N. C., is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Mangum, Okla. Mr. McNeill left his work in the Savannah Presbytery in September, 1917, to enter the service. For a year he was chaplain with the infantry in the A. E. F.

Band Makes Debut.

Simultaneous with the initial appearance of the band, which was de- Can the Davidson fellows drill? Well you should have seen them last Saturday. A and B companies, marching in column of platoons to the strains of martial music from Davidson's new band, swung past the reviewing stand with lines as straight as arrows. Davidson’s band made its debut on the parade ground, and the R. O. T. C. paraded for the first time this year. The band as an innovation introduced a new style of procedure in that it was in two detachments. The first detachment consisted of the entire band with the exception of one musician, Gunn, the younger, who was the whole second detachment by himself. Appearing for the first time, the band gave a really creditable performance.

OPEN FORUM

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

Why?

I agree thoroughly with what Military said in the Forum last week about the R. O. T. C., and now I would like to analyze the reasons for the small amount of work which is given to the military training outside of the regular drill and recitation periods. Let us compare the R. O. T. C. with any other subject on the hill. Take Soph Math for instance. There are three recitations a week. There has to be an hour to an hour and a half spent in preparing for classes. This makes a total of seven and a half hours a week. This alone can well be taken as the average. Now let us consider, on the other hand, the R. O. T. C. There are three hours of drill and two of recitations. Besides, there must be at least two hours spent in preparation, if the subject is to be mastered in any acceptable way. This makes a total of seven hours a week. Now for this seven hours’ work we get no credit. Is this fair? I think not. The R. O. T. C. is a subject just like any other subject and should be given the same credit. The fact that it is not is the reason for the small amount of work done outside of the regular periods. If the faculty would give us credit for this work, I am sure that the work done would be greatly increased.

Safety First

“Oh—! Oh—! My eyes, come quick, please! Please help me—my eyes, h—!”

You who play with potassium nitrate and red phosphorus beware lest these words be yours. Do you value those God-given instruments, which will aid you in attaining the heights of success which you long for? If you do, the accident which happened the other night should be sufficient to show you that explosives are not to be “monkeyed” with. Our sympathy goes out to the young men who were hurt, and we hope they will rapidly recover from their burns. We are sorry that they had to be the example, and we hope that no more lessons of this kind will be necessary to teach the coming generations of students that “Safety First” is the best policy in handling explosives. Too much stress cannot be laid upon this subject of explosives as well as upon the generation of offensive gases such as hydrogen sulphide and carbides in stu- dents’ rooms.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY.

The Oglethorpe Libraryhas just received a splendid collection of German books, which amounts to nearly one thousand volumes. This is the largest number of books from an individual collection ever presented to the school at one time.—The Petrel.

If all the telephone wires in the United States were rolled into one ball and weighed, do you know the service couldn't be much worse than it is now.—Chara-De-Six.

CARSON-NEWMAN COLLEGE.
The Tar Heel Club met a few days ago and organized for the ensuing year. There being an unusually large number of Tar Heels this term, they are already beginning to look forward to the annual reception, which is the most enjoyable occasion of the year—The Orange and Blue.

MILLSAPS COLLEGE.
Despite many obstacles in their way, the girls scored a splendid triumph in organizing the Y. W. C. A. They are going to petition the faculty to be allowed to meet once a week during chapel time—The Purple and White.

UNIVERSITY OF S. CAROLINA.
The Engineering school at the University is trying a new experiment. It is the co-operative plan which affords students the opportunity to pay their own expenses. Employment is secured outside and students work two weeks in every month. The school term is thus lengthened to six years, but the practical knowledge thus obtained is worth much.—The Gamecock.

UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE.
The University is sending out what is called the Y. M. C. A. “Deputation Teams.” It is the purpose of these teams to visit various preparatory and high schools in East Tennessee and present to the students in attendance the advantages of coming to college, and just what and what not to expect there.—Orange and White.

They were sitting in a secluded corner of the veranda. Suddenly he took her little hand in his. His voice was choked with emotion as he said: “Do you think you could love a man?” “Yes,” she interrupted with a soft whisper. “Bring on your man.”—Ex.

FURMAN UNIVERSITY.
The Glee club has been organized and every indication points towards the best Glee club that has ever existed at Furman—Furman Hornet.

BOSTON TECH.
Over 2,500 students attended the all-technology smoker. Wrestling, boxing, and movies entertained the throng. The main object of the smoker was to acquaint the freshmen with the customs and traditions of the Institute—The beauty.

We all take our hats off to Colonel Mueller. If it was not for his undying pep, the military training would be a fizzle. Now, if we can, as “Military” suggested, get the college authorities to give a full ticket for the R. O. T. C., we can, under the leadership of Colonel Mueller, turn out reserve officers who will be a credit to the college and to the Government.

Allow me to suggest that Colonel Mueller’s plan of having the student battalion go to Charlotte in uniform for the A. & E. game be carried out by all means. It will give tone and pep to the day, it will give our alumni an opportunity to see our battalion, of which we are proud. It would also be an exercise of maneuver in that it would give the men practice in entraining and detraining. To march up Trade and Tryon streets headed by the band and the colors will be a fine advertisement for the game. The mayor of Charlotte has given an invitation to the student battalion to parade in the city; we will have a room at the Selwyn hotel for the men to change their clothes if they desire to do so after the game. Further, we will have a truck at the depot to take the men’s baggage. Fellows, be sure to be there next time and help every other fellow learn that new song, for it is a beauty.

The Davidsonian proposes to raise a budget for the purpose of running a few pictures in every issue. Cuts add greatly to the make-up of the paper and the staff proposes in this way to make The Davidsonian more interesting. Many of the old staff men and friends have suggested this from time to time—they have also certified their desire to contribute to this fund. The staff has decided to accept these contributions and to ask that others that are interested please let us hear from you. The plan is this: we are inviting every student, friend, and alumni to send in their pledges in amounts that they desire to give for the purpose of establishing this budget for the running of cuts. It will not be necessary to send the money with the pledge, this may be sent later, but we are anxious to see how many folks are interested in the proposition, so that we may determine how much to expect for this phase of work.

The Davidsonian has purchased a camera outfit and all material necessary to take and develop pictures. R. R. McIlwaine, a student, has had a great deal of experience in this line and has taken all the pictures that have appeared in our paper this year with possibly one or two exceptions. We propose to run pictures of our athletes, debating teams, interesting visitors, and any other picture that may be of interest. A good many cartoons, drawn by some of the students, will also add spice to our pages. A list of contributors and amounts will be published each month. If you are in favor of the scheme, say so. Help us make The Davidsonian the best college paper in America.

GEE WHIZ! GHOSTS.
The fresh had about forgotten the spirits and ghosts because of other usages of their brain (?), but Friday night tended to remind them of their old friends and their works. When Jack Pickford came before the student body in presenting “The Ghost House” he surely made a hit with all present. And you dumping expeditions had better go slow from now on, for everyone has seen that ghosts are not invincible. The Atwell girl also helped by showing that “if you are a spirit a little fire won't hurt you.” The picture undoubtedly came nearer to perfection than anything that has been seen here this fall. And in so far as changing reels was concerned it could not have been excelled. The short time intervening between reels was all used, too, by songs and more singing. There was a slight difficulty experienced by some in finding seats, which proves the popularity of the shows to be increasing steadily.