The DAVIDSONIAN, March 5, 1919

PICKUPS IN DAVIDSON.

The friends of Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Brown will be sorry to learn that they have received word of
the death of their son, Private H. J. Brown, of the 113th Field Artillery, who died in France of pneumonia.

Dr. W. J. Martin has been unwell for the past week.

Mrs. J. M. Wharey has returned from a lengthy visit in Hendersonville, and is now with her daughter, Mrs. W.
R. Grey.

Rev. Dr. W. H. Miley spent several days with his family at Davidson. Dr. Miley is now in Virginia, where
he is holding an evangelistic campaign.

The Book Lovers’ Club met at Mrs. J. R. Withers’ last week. Miss Lizzie Young read an excellent paper on
Napoleon Bonaparte.

Miss Essie Jetton, of the Local School Faculty, is recovering from a severe attack of pneumonia. It is hoped that
she will soon be able to resume her work in the school.

Misses Johnsie and Bonnie Shelton have returned to the Hope Mills School, where they are teaching.

Dr. Mary Martin Sloop spent several days last week in Davidson with relatives.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton has been substituting for Miss Essie Jetton while she has been ill.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle spoke at Hickory last Sunday in interest of the three and a half million dollar campaign
for benevolence.

Miss Clara Smith, of Barium Springs, spent the day in Davidson last Saturday.

Mrs. W. J. Martin received a telegram from her son, Malcolm Rumple. He has arrived at Newport News, Va., after
18 months’ service in France with the 1st Battalion of the Trench Artillery.

Mr. C. H. Pratt, secretary of the United Foreign Mission Board and also secretary of the Laymen’s Missionary Movement, was
the guest of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle last Sunday and Monday. He spoke at the Y.M.C.A. meeting at
the college and also at the night service of the Presbyterian church.

Miss Anna Howard, of Charlottesville, Va., arrived Wednesday to visit her niece, Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

Mr. Robert W. Miles preached at Hickory last Sunday.

Miss Eloise Martin returned to Queens College Monday.

Miss Price, who has been visiting her sister, Mrs. W. W. Woods, left Monday for her home in Lewisburg, Va.

Miss Douglas entertained her Sabbath School class last week. Miss Margaret Douglas gave them an interesting talk on Brazil.

Misses Lizzie and Mary Young are expected home this week from Florida.

Miss Elizabeth Daniel, of New York, will arrive Friday for a visit to Mrs. W. R. Grey. Miss Daniel has
recently returned from service in France as a Red Cross nurse.

Mrs. Withers, wife of Dr. George Withers, is slightly improved after a severe illness.

Lieut. W. T. Johnson, ex-'19, stopped at Davidson for a short while last week. Lieutenant Johnson is on his way
to Camp Lee.

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell spent the weekend at Davidson with their son. They were accompanied by Miss Mitchell and Tom
Mitchell.

JUNIORS GET PALE AROUND THE GILLS

All Juniors alike are aware of the fact that their time is drawing nigh. Only two or three more days
before the...Results of their labors for the past few weeks will be exposed to the public. The question with which
the Junior greets his fellow classmate as he meets him on the campus is: “Do you know your speech?" The
usual answer is: “I think so.” Whether the Junior knows his speech or not will be revealed when the inevitable
hour arrives. Like pulling a tooth, in just one short period it will all be over. So cheer up, Juniors,
the worst is yet to come! Just remember that you are not the only one enduring misery while you are
speaking! Despite the fact that the majority of the speakers will deal with the momentous questions relating to the world
conflict, the visitors will hear varied topics discussed which should be very interesting.

SUNDAY RECORDS.

The total attendance on the Y. M. C. A. Bible classes last Sunday was fair, though it was a little
less than it was the week before. Rumple led in attendance with 28, nine less than before. Georgia ranked next
with an increase of five, making an attendance of 22. South Chambers has dropped from 25 to 21. Watts has
lost two, leaving 18. And North Chambers has risen from 1 to 17. The total is 107. Georgia and North
Chambers have the right idea. Their attendance is on the increase! Get up and go to a Bible class—you can't
sleep much after 9 o'clock, anyway. Don't “kill time” on Sunday morning. When you “kill time” you kill part of
your life. Make your time count!

In spite of the rain, the attendance on the Sunday Schools was very encouraging. The total attendance was: Scholars, 233;
teachers, 29.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY

A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Quality and Service
Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time?
Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both.
The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
Engraved Work a Specialty
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE
(Phone 643)
T. C. STONE, Representative
NORTH CAROLINA

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

SPALDING’S Club Special BASE BALL SHOE
RECOMMENDED for school and college players. Strongly made of selected leather. Pink sprinting style flexible soles. See it in our
catalogue or at A. G. Spalding & Bros. 74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

NEW. Sorin 25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier
