The DAVIDSONIAN, April 16, 1919

LITERARY SOCIETIES

International Question Subject Of Debate Program Interesting and Greatly Enjoyed.

PROGRAM
Saturday Night, April 19.

Resolved, “That Student Government is Superior to Faculty Government.”

Phi.
Affirmative. Negative
Calhoun Boney
McCain LaFar
Tufts Howland

Extemporaneous.
Foscue Hart

Declamation.
McCrory Freeman

Eu.
Affirmative. Negative.
Booth, R. McKeldin, J. R.
Price, J. P. Mitchell, A. M.
Doubles, M. R. Cummings, W. P.
Cornelson, G. Ormond, A. P.

Declamation.
Price, J. K.

Oration,
Turner, E. A.

EU. SOCIETY.

The meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society was held at the regular hour in the Eu. Hall Saturday night, April 12. A full house listened with interest and enjoyment to the speakers. The subject for discussion was: Resolved, “That the Rhine River Should be the Boundary Line Between France and Germany.” The affirmative was upheld by Bitzer, Liston, Summers, and Bailey. They defended their side vigorously with the principal points: That the extra strip of land rightly belonged to France by conquest; that it would develop the French resources; that it should be given to France as a reparation for the losses incurred during the war. The negative, composed of Robson, Hyland, Knight, and Long, started off in excellent style but their opposition and argument were smothered during the latter stages of the debate. They argued that France did not need this extra strip of land, and that it would cause continued disputes between the inhabitants. The house decided in favor of the affirmative. The committee did likewise. Lowry ended the exercises by delivering a spirited declamation on “The Cure for Anarchism,” by Lyman Ammon. The debate was featured by several misunderstandings and the word fights which followed, when “Bull” Liston claimed to be misrepresented. A hurry call was sent for “Pitts,” but the disturbance settled peaceably. Bitzer proved to be an M. A. when it came to counting on his fingers. This was his favorite pastime. Robson was not on the winning side, but he presented what seemed to be a funny paper to the house, which afterwards proved to be a map. One would think that Summers was holding a “Royal straight flush,” by the cunning way he shuffled his notes when he attempted to take the “full house.” Although Knight has a dark name, he turned a ghastly white from stage fright while on the floor and it is hard to tell who proved to be the best reader, he or Long. The last named gentleman almost meets the requirements of a Keith comedian. Bitzer, saving up his energy, blew the lights out with his eloquent rebuttal. The subject for extemporaneous debate was: Resolved, “That in Japan They Suck Their Thumbs Instead of Chewing Gum.” The affirmative was upheld by Mr. Cummings and the negative by the acting president. The affirmative won, and incidentally saved himself a 25 cent fine. The usual fines for disorder were imposed on the front row for being engaged in a conspiracy to create annoying applause.

PHI. SOCIETY.

Due to the good work of the Phi’s janitor who ran off to Charlotte with the keys, this society was forced to suspend action for the time being.

UNIFORMS BEING ISSUED; RIFLES EXPECTED DAILY

About half of the cadets were issued their full line of clothing, with the exception of shoes and overcoats, last week. Another small shipment came in Saturday and a larger shipment is expected to arrive any day. The Professor of Military Science and Tactics was desirous of obtaining smooth russet leather shoes but the unfinished leather ones like those issued in the S. A. T. C. were sent instead. The shoes were issued Monday. The overcoats will not be given out until a decision is reached as to whether or not the boys will be permitted to keep them. If not, there is no use of issuing them for this warm weather. The rifles, with the rest of the ordnance equipment, including ammunition, packs, etc., are expected to arrive this week.

ANOTHER GAME IN CHARLOTTE THIS WEEK.

Monday morning Manager Cunningham announced that Davidson had been asked to play in Charlotte Wednesday of this week as one of the features of the neighboring city’s big celebration in honor of the returning 120th Infantry. Charlotte will secure the second team and a good brand of baseball will no doubt be displayed. It is hoped that this team will be Virginia, as this will give us two chances at the famous aggregation fromthe Old Dominion State.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS EXCELLENT BIBLE CLASS STILL POOR

The attendance of the Bible classes last Sunday was poor. The first floors of Georgia and Watts had no meeting at all. Rumple still leads with an attendance of 29. North Wing Chambers 16, Georgia 13, Watts 13, South Wing Chambers 8. Total attendance at Sunday schools was 233 with 19 teachers. This shows quite an improvement over last Sunday's attendance.

SOPH. BANQUET.

The Soph. banquet will be given next Thursday, the seventeenth, in Charlotte, at the Selwyn Hotel. Manager McKeldin has been working hard on the arrangements, and has all his plans complete. Thirty-five or forty men will attend. Coming the day of the Virginia game, an early departure from Davidson is planned. The banquet should be a very fine affair. Music has been secured for the entire evening. Cop Johnson is the toastmaster of the occasion. There will be a guest from each class. Professor Reed will be the faculty representative. The purpose of the banquet is to bring the class together and arouse class pride and spirit. All men will be excused from recitation class the next day.

Dr. Richards Addresses Y. M. C. A. On “Pep”

A Man Must Be Characterized by Christian Zeal to Succeed.

Sunday night saw a very good attendance at “Y” vesper service in Shearer Hall. Dr. Richards made a talk on “Pep.” He took the illustration of Joash, the king of Israel in his interview with the dying Elisha. The prophet told the king to smite the ground with his arrows in token of the defeat of Syria. Joash smote three times, and stayed. He did not passionately hate the Syrians, as he should have done, and showed his lack of “pep” by smiting only three times. This lukewarmness cost him his kingdom. So it is with many of us. We need to be set on fire with a passionate desire to serve Christ. But how are we to be set on fire for him? One kindles a fire by lighting it from another fire. Blue Ridge is such a place, where there are many people on fire for Christ. If there is such a man among the student body, we should cultivate his acquaintance. But there is a far greater center from whence to get this passion and that is from Jesus Christ himself. Why not go to him? He is always here. Let the fires in Him catch on to you. Don't be like Joash, passionless against what is wrong, but keep on smiting, fighting against the evil influences around you. Get close to Christ.

It seems that Babe Sherrill met his Waterloo in the water battle in front of Rumple last Monday night, probably due to his disappointment on the athletic field Sunday night. “Handsome” Black is wearing a bandaged hand. The old adage: “It never rains but it pours,” was entirely fulfilled last Friday. The rain came down in sheets, North Chambers contributing her share, while classes were cut by the wholesale.

The Peanut Parcher

“Peyton” Davenport, ‘19, one of Davidson’s social “jazz hounds,” having received his “sixey,” chose Mt. Holly, N. C., as the proper place to “spend his substance in riotous living.”

C. H. Long, ‘24, has returned from a trip to New York in interest of his former employers, the Standard Aircraft Corporation.

Ed. Lilly, (teaching a men's Bible class)—"A man cannot serve two masters, a fellow cannot have two girls.”

Captain Sample (in military class)—“Explain the position of a soldier at attention.”

Student Recruit—“I am not prepared, Doctor.”

Sample—“Call me merely Professor, if you please.”

Sam Howie (explaining the position of the soldier)—“Knees stiff without straightness; head resting on shoulders.”

Corp Phillips (explaining the about face)—“Place the left toe about six inches in the rear of the left heel.”

During the absence of Lieut. Col. Mueller, Cadet Major R. D. Hall will act as Professor of Military Science and Tactics.

Fountain.

The Rexall Store

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

CAMP SAPPHIRE

Ideal Location, Complete Equipment, Strong Personnel of the Camp Council.

MILITARY ATHLETIC EDUCATIONAL

On Deer Park Lake, at the foot of Elk Lodge Mountain

BREVARD, N. C.

For Boys Between the Ages of Nine and Eighteen

Season of 1919, July 2 to August 27

For further information, address,

W. McK. Fetzer, Director

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA