PRE-COMMENCEMENT ISSUE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 23, 1919. No. 25

“Bob” Miles Returns to Davidson As “Y” Secretary for Year 1919-’20

Has Accepted Offer Made by Students in Face of Many Other Calls. Bright|Clark Hero of Victory, Strikes Out Thirteen Men
and Gets Three Hits. Outlook for Next Year.

Listen, everybody! Davidson is to have a real Y. M. C. A. secretary next year! Yes, ‘tis true, and what's
more, Davidson is to have the very best Y* man alive. In other words, Mr. R. W. Miles, Jr., has
been persuaded to return next year as student secretary. The enthusiasm and interest of the students over this announcement has
never been equalled in the history of the college association. The determination of the students to secure a secretary—and if
it were humanly possible, to secure Mr. Miles—has enabled them to overcome all difficulties and has finally led to the
acceptance of this position by Mr. Miles.

The history of their efforts is interesting reading and gives one an insight into the spirit and temper of the
student body. About four weeks ago at a regular Y meeting, the question was raised as to whether the college
would secure a secretary for next year. Several who knew declared that the state of the college treasury would not
permit such action at this time. “Well, let’s do it ourselves,” was the reply and so a committee was appointed
to look after the matter at once. After careful figuring and conferences with students and faculty this committee submitted the
following resolution to the student body:

“Realizing the supreme importance of securing a ‘Y’ secretary for the collegiate year 1919-1920, we, the students of Davidson College
do hereby promise to pay the sum of three dollars each towards his salary, provided, (1) That a Board of
Directors be elected to control the collection of this money and to guarantee the remainder of his salary. (2) That
this money not be collected before the opening of the fall term 1919-'20.”

This resolution was unanimously adopted, although some students thought that the amount promised was rather small. The next step was
the election of the Board of Directors, which now consists of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, chairman; Coach W. M. Fetzer;
Professor Macon Reid; Mr. F. L. Jackson and the following students: S. H. Askew, W. B. Sullivan, L. B. Schenck,
J. R. Boulware, Jr., and the Y. president, D. M. Chalmers. This board immediately called Mr. Miles to this work
for next year, and in the face of such determination and spirit on the part of the students he could
not do otherwise than accept, although a dozen churches and colleges were clamoring for his services.

Mr. Miles is a member of the class of 1911, but owing to a football accident in the spring of
his senior year, was prevented from graduating with his class. In addition to his Y. M. C. A. and athletic
work here this spring he has found time to complete his studies and will receive his diploma with the members
of the class of 1919.

(Continued on Page 12)

Virginia Outclassed By Davidson In Shut-Out Game, Score 5 to 0

Harrison Tightened in Pinches.

Dr. Martin Invites Alumni to Commencement

To the Alumni:

The approaching commencement will be an occasion of unusual interest to us, the Alumni. Many of our number—a large proportion
in fact—have met in various ways the acid test of war during the recent months. So far as I know
all have done their heroic duty and many have won distinction. A chosen few of our number have been called
upon to make the supreme sacrifice for the flag—for civilization—for us and the things that we cherish, and now are
asleep with the heroes beneath the lilies of France.

This coming commencement, then, will be peculiarly one of reunions. Those returningfrom France are thinking expectantly of happy meetings with
old friends. Those of us who could not go will lose much if we are not here to greet the
returning ones and hear the tales they have to tell. All of us will be privileged to join in the
memorial service in honor of those who will not return. It is greatly to be hoped then that as (Continued
on Page 12)

There’s No Place Like “Alma Mater”

Alumni Paragraphs By Pres. R. M. Miller, Jr.

A college is judged largely by the loyalty and affection of its Alumni. Are you loyal?

* * *

Davidson has given to the world men of the highest type, who have been singularly successful in their chosen sphere
of work.

* * *

Davidson Alumni have carried into life and put into practice the principles instilled into them during their college days.

* * *

In 1919 it is Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States; in 1874 it was Tommy Wilson—one of the Davidson
“boys.” His habitation now is the White House; then it was Chambers building, first floor, north wing.

* * *

One of the foremost, if indeed, not the foremost, gifted and eloquent theologians of the Southern Presbyterian Church, is an
Alumnus of Davidson.

* * *

The record of her sons in the great world war; their many acts of bravery and heroism; their suffering and
sacrifice (Continued on Page 12)

In the prettiest game of ball pulled off this season Davidson applied the whitewash to the fast Virginia team on
Wearn field Thursday afternoon. The old dope was completely spilled, the Wildcats outclassing their opponents in every department. There were
two big reasons for the one-sided score, the main one being Rufus Clark and the other the hitting and all-round
good playing of the whole aggregation. Railroad was the outstanding hero of the victory. He kept the batters at his
mercy at all times and seldom even had to work out of a pinch. Not only was he the mainstay
on the defense, but he also got three out of the seven hits obtained, each one bringing across a run.
The whole squad was hitting better than ever before and in only one inning failed to get a man on
first. With the exception of two slight bobbles the fielding was also perfect. The fact that the score was 5
to 0 does not mean that Virginia had an off-day. They presented an excellent infield, Kuyk especially holding down the
third station in fine style. Harrison showed ability to tighten in the pinches by retiring the locals with a total
of eleven men left on bases. The score by innings was as follows:

First Inning.

Davidson—Spann was hit by a pitched ball and given a pass. Miller sacrificed. Cassell grounded out to third. Ratchford went
out Pritchard to Mount.

Virginia—Kuyk struck out, Dunn went out Cassell to McArn, Mount grounded to pitcher and was out.

Second Inning.

Davidson—Jackson fanned. Richards walked and took second on a passed ball. Clark grounded out to Dunn. McArn hit to short
and was out.

Virginia—Pritchard fanned and Vance followed suit. Pettway was thrown out by Ratchford.

Third Inning.

Davidson—Sample died, pitcher to first. Miller hit a high one over second which Dunn failed to handle. Joe stole second
and there perished when Cassell failed to connect.

Virginia—Moran grounded out Clark to McArn. Gwathmey and Harrison fanned.

Fourth Inning.

Davidson—Ratchford flew out to Pettway. Johnson was thrown out Kuyk to Mount. Richards walked, Clark got the first hit when
he singled over short, Richards taking third. McArn grounded to third and was thrown out.

Virginia—Kuyk went out Ratchford to McArn. Dunn drove one to right for a safety and advanced to second on Mount’s
sacrifice. Ratchford threw Pritchard out at first.

Fifth Inning.

Davidson—Sample grounded to pitcher. Spann walked but was caught stealing (Continued on Page 7)

IMPORTANT! CLASS OF ’14 SEE ALUMNI PAGE
