We Announce the Largest Enrollment in the History of the College

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 10, 1919.

Opening Address Delivered By Dr. Wm. J. Martin

Numbers Alone is Not Success—Must Grow Not Only Bigger But Better.

Dr. Martin delivered in chapel Monday morning the address which it is his custom to make incidental to the opening
of the college year. This address is made on Monday, instead of the preceding Thursday, in order to save every
possible moment of time when affairs are in the congested state which registration always produces. Dr. Martin read a part
of the second chapter of Philippians, taking as the text of his address the fourth verse of that chapter: "Look
not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others."

He mentioned with evident pleasure the fact that the Greater Davidson Club had reached its objective—four hundred students. He said
that in the normal course of events this must be followed by a still further growth; because the present large
freshman class is a forecast of large sophomore, junior, and senior classes in the future. He emphasized the fact that,
having fulfilled the first part of its motto in making a bigger Davidson, the Greater Davidson Club and all other
loyal friends of the college must now join in fulfilling the rest of the motto by making a better Davidson.

He said that he believed that he was able to return to his duties only as a result of answered
prayer, and so felt that his life was, in a new and peculiar sense, dedicated to the service of the
college. He spoke of the menacing unrest of the laboring classes in all parts of the world, and said that
this was only to be quieted by the devoted service of conscientious Christian men. He urged the students of Davidson
College to "Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others;" to
live a life of service, not of selfishness; and thus to enrich the life of the college while they were
in it, and to make their lives a force for good in the world.

College Opens With a Rush; Great Year Ahead.

Greater Davidson Club Goes "Over the Top"; Largest Enrollment in History of College.

No longer is the four hundred of New York unique. When Davidson College opened up for the year nineteen hundred
and nineteen-twenty, an assembly of young men from all over the civilized world and Florida had assembled at this spot
where learning is cherished. The Greater Davidson Club has done its work and done it well. At the time of
this writing, four hundred and fourteen of the young men of this land had signed up for courses at this
historic institution.

All the commodious cars which were run by the Southern Railway on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of last week were
taxed to the utmost to care for the inpouring crowds of young men who have chosen this college to start
them off in life. Davidson, as a small college, has had several alumni who have taken a high rank in
the affairs of the state, the country, and the world. When the United States wanted a president, they chose an
alumnus of old Davidson. When the whole world was in a state of chaos, it was a former student of
this place who pointed the way by which men might escape from their condition of wretchedness. It is little wonder
that in this age that tries the temper of the souls and hearts of men, when all the world is
looking to the educated men of the English-speaking countries of the world to lead the way from the shadow of
the great war into a new era, the young men of today have come to the same institution which Woodrow
Wilson attended for preparation for their life’s work.

The students, both new and old, assembled for the first time at chapel on Thursday morning. Dr. Martin began the
greatest year in the history of the college with the reading of scripture and prayer. He welcomed the students and
said no more and nothing else was necessary. The manner in which he spoke, even more than what he said,
showed that he had returned with a high heart and with great hopes to guide the college through this year
which promises so much even as he had stood by it during the dark days that proved the forerunner of
this glorious year.

Colonel Mueller called out all of the men who were intending to take the R.O.T.C. course this year and they
met on the athletic field Thursday morning immediately after chapel. The appointments of officers for the current year were announced
and the would-be reservists were divided into two battalions of three companies each. The commanding officer then explained the aim
and plans of the organization in a few well-selected words. Uniforms have been issued to members of the upper classes
who took the military training last year and who intend to follow in their own footsteps again this year.

Mr. Jackson has been about the busiest man on the hill ever since the first freshman came in—almost two weeks
ago. The genial business manager seems to be in his office at all times and yet if there is anything
to be done in any of the dormitories he is always on hand to see that it is done and
in many cases to do it himself. The dormitories are full, Louisiana is crowded, many of the boys are rooming
out in town, and yet accommodations are being arranged for all the men who come in. The Greater Davidson Club
set as its goal four hundred men. That mark was passed several days ago and still they are coming in.
Why so many freshmen have come probably Mr. Miles alone can tell; why so many of the old men are
back everyone who has ever been to Davidson well knows.

And now it is for the students to put behind them the memories of those incomparable summer nights when the
zephyrs whispered their tales of love to the fairies who dwelt in the highest boughs of the loftiest oaks and
the thousand fireflies flitted to and fro unnoticed in the dell, for the forlorn Fresh of today was then with
the only one—for him. But now is the day for work. Though with sadness we say it, still we admit
that it is true to make the most of the year we must make the work of the year our
chief concern. So it is for us to look forward to the future with hopeful hearts and endless enthusiasm, forgetful
of ourselves, if need be, that Davidson College may go forward to that wonderful work on which she has so
auspiciously entered.

The Davidsonian is an asset of the College. It is valuable from the standpoint of the College, the student body,
and the Alumni. All of these interests should take pride in its continued success and see to it that its
growth increases from year to year.

Many Facts and Near-Facts About Literary Societies

Discussion of Societies for the Benefit of New Men.

From the standpoint of historic interest, the literary societies at Davidson should at once command the interest of every new
man on the Hill. Both the Eumenean and the Philanthropic were founded the same year as the College, 1837. They
are thus the oldest student organizations on the campus. And all through their checkered career of eighty-three years, they have
preserved their ideals, integrity, and individuality.

A very interesting piece of history connected with the Philanthropic Society is the story of the chandelier in the society
hall. It is said to have been originally an ornament in one of the halls of the palace of Napoleon
at Versailles. It is said that under it the Child of Destiny was married. When Napoleon's Empire crumbled, Marshal Ney,
so the story goes, fled to America, bringing with him this chandelier. Becoming interested in the foundation of Davidson College,
he designed its seal and contributed his historic chandelier to one of its literary societies.

When Woodrow Wilson was a student at Davidson, he was a member of the Eumenean Society; and, as its secretary,
made a copy of its constitution which is still preserved in the society archives. Thus, in joiningThe Eumenean Society: A
man is following in the footsteps of Woodrow Wilson, S. Horton Askew, and other distinguished men. History is not the
only claim, nor even the principal one, of the literary societies upon the interest of the student. In a peculiar
sense, their line of work is one of great importance in the intellectual life of the campus; theirs is a
considerable part in the development of the mental faculties of the college man. No man can afford to stay out
of literary society work if he hopes for a well-rounded development. The marshals at junior speaking and at commencement are
elected by the literary societies. The inter-collegiate debating teams, which represent the college in the only contests of brains in
which the college takes part, are chosen from literary society men, each speaker receiving a gold debater's emblem. There are
held each year three inter-society contests: the fresh-soph declamation contest, the fresh-soph debate, and the junior-senior debate, two medals being
offered in each contest. Each society offers also an essay medal; and the societies jointly offer the fiction medal and
the junior orator’s medal. The Eumenean Society offers an improvement medal in its freshman society. All told, the literary societies
offer more medals than the college and all other organizations on the Hill. It is customary that men from North
Carolina shall join the Society and that men from all other States shall join the Eumenean. Men from the town
of Davidson, realizing its good standing, frequently break over the custom and join the Eumenean Society. Both societies extend a
cordial welcome to all students of Davidson College. It is gratifying to all of the friends of the College, and
especially to the Alumni, to note the large attendance this year—the largest matriculation in the history of the College. This
is no accident, but due largely to the well-earned and well-known reputation of the College for its thoroughness of instruction,
strict discipline, ability of the faculty, and characteristic environments thrown around the campus.

Philanthropic - Freshmen Honored by Splendid Reception
New Men Cordially Entertained—Movies and Eats Play Large Part.

“Variety is the Spice of Life” and that is what the freshman class of Davidson enjoyed Monday night at the
annual fresh reception held in the gymnasium. With plenty of “pep” and barrels of the old Red and Black spirit,
the class of '23 was formally welcomed into the Alma Mater. The first event of the occasion was a set
of cheers and yells, led by Hugh Carey, class of '22. Those old steel beams in the top of the
“gym” just naturally shook with the roar that went up. Believe Steve! This was one time when the fresh were
heard as well as seen, and it did the upperclassmen good to see them enter with so much enthusiasm. “Bob”
Miles opened up formalities with a short talk, introducing Henry Spann, crack quarterback of the gridiron squad. Is he a
team by himself? I'll say he is! Peary made a few encouraging remarks on the prospects of a bang-up team,
and introduced Coach “Pete” Crayton, who is at the helm of Wildcat athletics this year. After a few complimentary remarks
in honor of Coach “Bill” Fetzer, who has left Davidson and gone to A. & E., Coach Crayton made several
remarks which will certainly burn deep into the heart of everyone who heard him. “Play the game for the game's
sake—play as you are coached and let the score take care of itself." What did Coach say about Davidson spirit
in N. C.? He said: “We admit that we have the best spirit and others acknowledge it.” And tell a
Davidson man that that is not so and you will have started the war all over again. Cassel, speaking in
behalf of the Davidsonian, hit the keynote with a smash when he said it was the “Live Wire of the
Hill.” Mr. R. M. Miller, of Charlotte, N.C., president of the Alumni Association, followed with a short talk in which
he said that it is up to this, the biggest student body Davidson has ever known, to protect the honor
that the former graduates gave to Davidson. Colonel Muller, at the head of the R.O.T.C. training, welcomed the new men
into that organization warmly, and promised faithfully that they would see and hear of him again. “Be able to do
a thing, do it when you are told, and then have the confidence that you can do it again.” Such
was an extract from his short talk of welcome. After these short talks, the social end of the program was
entered into. The faculty and their wives received the freshmen and visitors in the “Y” room. Do those fresh like
cream? They surely did make themselves perfectly at home when it came to that part of the program. But alas!
Too much frolic, attractive maidens, ice cream, punch, and then more punch, was one too many for the “Little Brothers
of Davidson,” and Dr. Martin had to announce the hospital hours the next morning in chapel. The evening's entertainment wound
up with a movie entitled “The Little American,” with Mary Pickford starring. Little Mary had a wonderfully inspiring effect on
all present, and it was all the old men could do to keep the freshmen from “packing up their troubles
in their old kit bag” and changing their occupation to that of a film artist. After the picture, concluding the
program, the receptions by the fraternities were held in the respective halls. Among those present were: Misses Elizabeth Durham, Mary
Stuart Alexander, Elizabeth Miller, Corinne Gibbon, Julia Baxter Scott, DeWitt. Chat- Continued on page 7

No. 2
Here’s the “Dope” About New Coach
Pete Crayton Succeeds Fetzer as Coach—A Man of Wide Experience and Ability.

Outside of the regular classroom work, the excellent athletic standard which this College has always maintained is probably the biggest
feature of the institution. The enviable reputation which we have so long enjoyed throughout the South has been a drawing
card which no money could buy. Wherever a Davidson team is playing, everybody knows that a clean, hard fight is
being put up, the kind that any college fan is looking for. In building up this record too much credit
cannot be given to Coach “Bill” Fetzer and his brothers who went before him. In view of this fact, it
is not at all unusual that the news of Coach Fetzer's resignation should be received with some degree of anxiety.
With the same spirit which has always characterized the Davidson teams, the College set out to find a man to
succeed Coach Fetzer. Their splendid efforts were early rewarded and the one man who could really take his place was
secured. Coach L. B. Crayton, a resident of Charlotte, graduated in the class of 1915. During his four years’ stay
at Davidson he was known and liked by every student. “Pete,” as he was known in those days, was the
star end in football and played first base on the baseball nine. Some of the members of the present senior
class will recall how often the name of “Pete” Crayton was mentioned to them by those who had seen him
in action. After leaving Davidson, Coach Crayton succeeded Fetzer at Fishburne and for two years turned out winning teams. He
also became very popular with the men whom he was training. Soon after this country entered the war, Coach Crayton
enlisted and was sent to the first officers’ training camp. He was commissioned in the artillery and helped to organize
the Piedmont Battery. As a first lieutenant, he went to France and saw active service at St. Mihiel and in
the Argonne, besides other important engagements. His promotion was rapid and at the time of his discharge he held the
rank of major. Dr. Ben R. Lacy, who won the name of the “fighting parson,” was chaplain in his regiment
and when told that Crayton was to coach the Davidson teams, he remarked: “There is no better man you could
have found anywhere. I have fought, slept, and lived with ‘Pete’ through the hardest kind of fighting and I know
him. He's all man himself and knows how to handle others.” Continued on page 7

WE HAVE OUR 400. LET’S HAVE PLENTY OF “PEP”
