THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Real Men Only Wanted for “Y” Secretaries
Training of Young Men’s Christian Association Workers for the New Day

There was once a time when any man who aspired to be a secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association
asked himself whether he was a hale-fellow-well-met, whether he could jolly the boys, and perhaps whether he had some organizing
ability. Such conceptions of the association worker belong to the past and those who study the Young Men's Christian Association
movement of today know it takes a real man with real training to measure up to the responsibilities of this
work.

The Young Men's Christian Association is not a simple prayer meeting—though it believes in prayer as it never did before.
It is not a social club—though it realizes that the social instincts of men are strong and that no man
can be his best who does not develop these instincts under wholesome social conditions. It is not a gymnasium which
builds bodies for men—though it realizes fully the moral and religious significance of strong and healthy bodies. It is not
a dormitory building—though it believes that many thousands of young men have been saved to society and the church by
the fact that the association building gave the young man a clean, safe place to stay in his formative period,
while getting himself established in the city.

The Young Men’s Christian Association is no one of these. It is rather all of these with much besides. It
is a statesmanlike movement, of men, for the sake of men, to make conditions in the city and country alike
such a place of wholesomeness, of social justice and religious interest as will help to usher in the Kingdom of
God among men.

To be a secretary in such a movement calls for real manhood—with wholesome physical life, trained intellect and a soul
afire with love for men. Let us suggest five qualities in any really successful secretary and say a word about
how training should help to develop such qualities in a man. One does not name them in their order of
importance, but perhaps in the reverse order.

1. The first qualification which one would mention is the technique of skillful organization. This cannot be omitted and success
still crown the effort of the worker. Our organization is one of work-a-day men. Its home is usually located in
the heart of the business and most active part of a city’s business. The architecture is that of a great
office building. It deals with men hot from the contests of highly organized business. As a business organization the average
city association is no mean concern. Many a city association in a city the size of Nashville or larger, does
a business of from $100,000 per year up to five, six, seven hundred thousand, or even a million dollars per
year. The New York and Chicago associations are both million dollar concerns in the volume of business handled.

2. In the second place the secretary of today must have a social sense and technical training in sociology. The
most marked advance in the business world has been a larger sense of social responsibility. The average Rotary club of
today has more sense of obligation to the mass of men who need help than the average church had 50
years ago. A recent number of the Kiwanis Club Bulletin, for example, was devoted almost entirely to the subject of
social service. The Young Men’s Christian Association must have men who are trained to understand and meet this new social
consciousness.

3. The third qualification is a knowledge of the principles of education. The Young Men’s Christian Association is an educational
institution. It is not a school in the ordinary sense of the word, but it is a school in the
sense that it is constantly teaching men how to live. The secretary must be a teacher, not in the sense
of imparting knowledge, but in the sense of inspiring men to live better lives.

4. The fourth qualification is a knowledge of the principles of business. The Young Men’s Christian Association is a business
institution. It must be managed on business principles. The secretary must be a business man, not in the sense of
making money, but in the sense of managing men and resources efficiently.

5. Lastly, the secretary of the association must have training in that type of practical psychology which helps him interpret
the soul hunger of men. He must know men. He must know their methods of thinking, and above all he
must have a passion to help them.

In order to get men of this type of training there has been a long felt need for a training
college of the Young Men’s Christian Association in the South. This college should give thorough professional training for secretaries as
a theological seminary gives professional training for ministers. Only one should say parenthetically that it should be much more related
to life than the training in some seminaries we have known.

The new Southern College of Young Men’s Christian Association will run 12 months in the year, divided into four terms.
The three winter quarters will be held in Nashville, Tenn., in connection with George Peabody College for Teachers, Seaman A.
Knapp School of Country Life, Vanderbilt University, Vanderbilt School of Religion and Vanderbilt Medical College. The college will have the
very closest co-operation of these institutions, although it is an entirely autonomous institution, acting under its own charter and with
its own board of directors. The summer quarter of the college will be held during the months of June, July
and August, at the Blue Ridge grounds, Blue Ridge, N. C. In like manner there is the very closest co-operation
with the Blue Ridge Association, a number of the board members of the Blue Ridge Association Committee being also directors
of the college. The very complete equipment, the high altitude, and wonderful scenery surrounding Blue Ridge make this an ideal
place for summer work.

The college is being projected in harmony with the highest standards of university life and will from the very start
be a school for professional training and not an undergraduate school. Students will be admitted to its courses with the
possibility of graduation who have had at least two years of college work or its equivalent.years of college training, but
a very definite bid is being made for college graduates. The course will extend over eight quarters or what will
be equal to practically three years of academic work. On the completion of the full eight quarters’ work any student
who has had, prior to entrance, his full Sophomore work in college will be granted the degree of B.A. The
student who has had his B.A. in college will be granted the degree of M.A. Other students will be admitted
to the special work but not as candidates for degrees.

CIVIC LEAGUE SENDS VOTE OF THANKS

The members of the Civic League desire to thank those in authority for giving them the use of the gymnasium
and moving picture machine on Thanksgiving night; also the students for their courteous cooperation. The money received will be used
for town and school improvement.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. — Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY
and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should
have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

W. J. RODDEY & COMPANY, Gen’ Agents
Rock Hill, S.C.

Six quarters of this time or full two years of medical work will be taken in connection with the Vanderbilt
Medical College, special attention being given to topics like anatomy, physiology, nervous diseases, etc. Each physical director will be required
to carry a certain amount of association studies, such as association history and methods, courses on fundamentals of Christian life,
courses on the Old and New Testaments, etc. The college opened its doors on October 1 and it is expected
that during the first year we will matriculate not less than 50 students.

M. KIRSCHBAUM
Maker and Renovator of Hats and Furs
Charlotte, N. C.
A. M. Mitchell, Agt.

TOWN NEWS

At the November meeting of the Civic Club, Mrs. Martin was elected president, Mrs. Brady vice-president, and Miss Lizzie Young
treasurer. Miss Louise Sloan, the efficient secretary for two years, was re-elected. The moving picture show on Thursday night was
a benefit for the club, at which $45 was made. Though the price of the hall has increased considerably, the
club decided to retain it, feeling that it is a real addition to the village to have a place of
meeting available to all societies and public gatherings.

Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop, a sister of Dr. Martin and a former student in the college, will address the local
Missionary Society on Thursday afternoon. She, with her husband, Dr. E. H. Sloop, ’97, have been doing a remarkable work
in the mountains along medical and educational lines.

Dr. and Mrs. Porter Vinson, of Rochester, Minn., returned home Friday, after spending Thanksgiving with Mrs. W. D. Vinson.

Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson entertained Prof. J. L. Douglas, Miss Kate Douglas, Miss Grace James, Miss Hattie Thompson,
Miss Carnelia Shaw, at dinner on Thanksgiving day.

Miss Orrie Steel spent Thanksgiving in Rock Hill, S. C. Prof. Macon Reed left at the end of the week
for a few weeks of rest at his father’s home in Columbia, S. C. Professor Reed has been quite unwell,
but it is expected that he will be at his post when the college opens after Christmas. Mrs. Reed and
the children will be with him.

Miss Grace James, a student of Winthrop College, was at home for the holiday season.

The secretary who is to lead these forces must be intensely alive to the social needs of his community, else
he will be engulfed in the sea of commercialism that surrounds him. In the third place, the association secretary is
or may be a great teacher. In the realm of religious truth, few ministers of America and almost no teachers
have actually taught more men than Seay. Men taking training for the physical directorship of the association, provided they have
had sufficient training to give them entrance into college.

Rev. Robert Miles has come to the rescue of the graded school committee and agreed to take the principalship for
the remainder of the fall term. This was made vacant by the resignation of Miss Vinson because of the ill
health of her mother.
