THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

Athletic News

Football Gleanings

Ga. Tech Administers Unexpected Defeat to Georgetown—Princeton a Black Horse in Contest With Yale

The Golden Tornado overwhelmed the strong Georgetown team 27 to 0. The Georgia Tech team outplayed Georgetown in every department
of the game and displayed the same dash and spirit that has made her famous. The famous Heisman shift, discarded
in the Washington and Lee game, was used to great advantage.

Virginia lost to Vanderbilt 10 to 6 as a result of a fumble, which a Vandy guard recovered for a
touchdown. Furman, our Thanksgiving rival, defeated Erskine 41 to 0. Furman, as well as P. C., seems to be master
of the forward passing game. In the game Saturday, however, straight football was resorted to mostly.

Coach Fetzer’s eleven defeated the strong V. P. I. aggregation by the close score of 3 to 0. Several times
during the game the North Carolina eleven threatened to score and when the final whistle blew a touchdown was in
sight. By comparative records, it would appear that N. C. State has a slight advantage over Washington and Lee. N.
C. State defeated the Norfolk Naval Base 100 to 0, while Washington and Lee’s count was 78 to 0. The
N. C. State eleven on a muddy field defeated Roanoke College 78 to 0, while the Virginians repeated the feat
32 to 0. N. C. State defeated Davidson 36 to 6, while Washington and Lee only won by a 7
to 0 count, though this game was the Wildcats’ best of the season. Both N. C. State and Washington and
Lee defeated V. P. I. 3 to 0.

Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania battled to a 3 to 3 tie. The Princeton Tigers, contrary to all expectations, defeated Yale 13
to 6. Scheerer, a Princeton substitute, was the star of the game. Intercepting a forward pass when the score was
tied, he raced over the goal line for a touchdown and a Princeton victory. Sixty thousand people witnessed this game
in the Yale Bowl. Harry Murrey’s brother played an end for Princeton.

Football results:
Syracuse, 13; Colgate, 7.
Dartmouth, 6; Brown, 7.
Harvard, 23; Tufts, 0.
Rutgers, 7; West Virginia, 30.
Tulane, 7; University of Ga., 7.
Cornell, 0; Penn. State, 20.
Army, 62; Villanova, 0.
Navy, 121; Colby, 0.
Wake Forest, 65; Guilford, 0.
Univ. of S. Car. Scrubs, 13; Clemson Scrubs, 13.
Auburn, 7; Miss. A. and M., 0.
Center College, 56; Ken. State, 0.
Hampden-Sidney, 0; Richmond College, 0.

Where they play next Saturday:
V. P. I. vs. Emory and Henry.
Gallaudet vs. V. M. I.
Furman vs. Clemson.
Georgetown vs. Washington and Lee.
South Carolina vs. Florida.
Other teams have off-day preparation for Thanksgiving.

Wildcat Supporters Out Root Carolina Delegation.

That the Wildcats would not lack for support was plainly evident when Union Station to meet at the Y. M.
C. A. building after dinner. Here the band formed promptly at 2:30 and marched to Prince Albert Field, followed by
a crowd that was characterized by the determination to give Carolina the fight of her life. At the athletic field,
which was destined to go down as the scene of one of the fiercest battles in the history of football,
the supporters of the Red and Black were joined by a large number of former Davidson men, all of whom
showed their loyalty by their support of their alma mater at all times whether or not the odds were against
her.

At the end of the first half, just to show that the Davidson spirit could not be downed even though
her opponents were in the lead, the bleachers were emptied of Davidson men and the gridiron was made the scene
of the old snake dance, which is popular at Davidson. The amount of pep and interest in the team has
not been exceeded, not even at Charlotte, where our team was so nobly backed by our sisters at Queens.

Class Basketball Waxes Warm and Furious

Juniors and Sophs Leading With Clean Slate So Far — Juniors 35; Fresh 18.

The first game of the class basketball season opened with the Juniors engaging the Freshmen in the initial fray. When
the final whistle blew the upperclassmen were on the long end of a 35 to 18 score. At the beginning
of the first half, the Juniors jumped into the lead, holding the Freshmen scoreless until the last few minutes, when
the Freshmen shot two goals, ending the half in a 20 to 4 score in favor of the Juniors. The
second half opened with plenty of “pep,” the Freshmen being determined to cut down their opponents’ lead. The Freshmen’s teamwork
was excellent in this period, the Juniors making one more point than the “Fresh” in this half. Brice and Ormond
starred for the Juniors, while Brake tossed in most of the Freshmen’s baskets.

Juniors. | Position. | Freshmen.
Oltman | RF | Houghton
Ormond | LF | Brake
Finley | C | (c) Mauze
Brice (c) | LG | Murchison
King | RG | Crawford

Substitutions: Alexander for Mauze.
Field goals: Ormond (5), Oltman (4), Brice (5), Finley (1), Brake (6), Mauze (1), Houghton (1).
Fouls: Brice (2), Ormond (1), Brake (2).
Referee: Fall.

Sophs 42; Seniors 22.

On Wednesday afternoon in the second game of the class basketball series, the Sophomores defeated the Seniors to the tune
of 42 to 22. The Seniors put a scare into the Sophomore followers when they outplayedOn Saturday morning, several members
of the faculty, half of the student body, and Colonel Mueller’s band boarded the Davidson Special for Winston-Salem. Arriving in
the Twin-City of Forsyth County at 1:30 o’clock, the boys who were standing behind the Red and Black machine faced
their rivals and caged three baskets in the first few minutes of play. However, the Sophs recovered themselves, and when
the half ended, they were on the long end of a 20 to 10 score. The Seniors came back strong
in the second half and reduced their opponents’ lead to two baskets, but the Sophomores again recovered their former stride
and, by pretty teamwork, piled up a score which the Seniors could not overtake. The game was clean and fast,
not a personal or technical foul being called. Doubles and Roberts played the stellar game for the Sophs, while Askew
and Hawkins played the best game for the Seniors.

Sophomores. Position. Seniors.
Roberts.......- LF . ~. ~ Hawkins
Doubles (c)----RF ~~ ~~ - Askew
Striebich._...-.. ae Liston
Price_-_---___-- RG - - ~ (c) Craig
Irwin, L..----2- LG... ee Good

Substitutions: M. Irwin for L. Irwin. Field goals: Roberts (6), Doubles (8), Streibich (5), Price (2), Hawkins (6), Askew (5).
Referee: Harrington; timekeeper: Finley; scorer: Mauze.

Sophs 33; Fresh 10.
The Sophs, after defeating the Seniors last Wednesday, continued the good work by winning from the Fresh the next day
with a score of 33 to 10. The game started off very quietly and with only a few spectators. At
times, there was some good scrapping done, and the game was very interesting when both teams got into it. The
Sophs did some pretty passing, but as yet, the Fresh are lacking in teamwork. Manager Crawford has plenty of men
to pick from, and it is rather hard for him to get his best team picked. He will no doubt
round his team into better shape before the season is over. Doubles was the individual star of the game, playing
a good floor game and also shooting accurately. Houghton played a good game for the Fresh.

Line-up:
Sophs. Position. Fresh.
Roberts (9) -. -. -- -- Mauze (2) Right Forward
Doubles (18) -- -- -- -- Toney (4) Left Forward
Cornelson -_ -. -- -- Houghton (2) Center.
Price (2) -- -- -- -- Crawford (2) Right Guard
Erwin, M. (2) -. -. .. ~. Farmer Left Guard

Substitutions: Brake for Toney, Striebich (2) for Cornelson; Erwin, L., for Erwin, M. Referee: Oltman and Chalmers; scorekeeper: Finley; official
timekeeper: Knox; time of halves: 15 minutes.

Standing of Class Teams.
Won. Lost.
Juniors ..-. -.-.-.-- 2 0
Sophs -. -- -- -- -- -- 2 0
Seniors -. -. .. -. .... 0 2
Fresh .. -. -. -. -- -. 0 2

Juniors 40; Seniors 18.
The Juniors scored their second victory by winning from the Seniors with a score of 40 to 18. Neither team
started off with a great deal of pep, but soon the Juniors got together and began caging baskets in quick
succession. It seemed that the Seniors were trying to get one every time the Juniors got two, but when the
final whistle was blown and the score was given out, the Seniors were in need of one more goal. The
Seniors have found two more players since their first game, and both of them had a chance to show their
ability in this game. The shooting of Hawkins was spectacular for the Seniors. Orman at forward and King at guard
played a good game for the Juniors. So far, the Juniors have won two games, and the Seniors have lost
the same number.

Line-up:
Seniors. Position. Juniors.
Hawkins (8) .. .. -. Oltman (13) Right Forward
Askew (2) -- -- -. ~~ Ormand (15) Left Forward
Liston -. -. -. -. -. Finley (4) Center
Craig (6) .. -- -- -. -. -- King (2) Right Guard
Wilson -. -. -. -. ~~ -- Brice (6) Left Guard

Substitutions: Hamilton (2) for Liston. Referee: Chalmers; time of halves: 15 minutes.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of ARGONNE General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y.
The name “Argonne” is used by courtesy of the Argonne Shirt Co., Philadelphia

A New Line of
The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W.O. Thompson, Cashier, A. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., J.S. Beard, Assistant Cashier

Schloss Bros. Clothing
R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you, tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue, address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by
The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.
