4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
B. F. A. ABELE

Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr.

Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK

Forum Editor
S. A. SPENCE

Campus Editor
L. C. CALHOUN

Y. M. C. A. Editor
E. DUNN

Social Editor
M. GASTON

Literary Editor
K. SASSER

Sporting Editor
H. SMITH

Alumni Editor
D. H. OGDEN

Official Photographer
C. B. SANDERS

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
N. BOOKER
T. L. LISTON
R. R. CRAIG
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
J. M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE
A. C. SUMMERS

Additional reporters for this issue are: A. D. King, L. J. Bray, H. A. P. Ormand, W. A. Gamble, J. H. David.

Business Manager
J. T. WILKES, Jr.

Assistant Manager
A. P. ORMAND

Circulation Manager
W. A. GAMBLE

Assistant Managers
H. A. P. ORMAND
J. H. DAVID

EDITORIAL

Unpardonable slackers, high dice for the man who crowns him first. The freshman who at the end of the third quarter put his colors in his pocket. The man who wanted to spot Davidson twenty-one and bet on State. It is hard to believe there are any such men in college. May they repent before they meet with their just reward.

Fifteen for Colonel Mueller. He has the Davidson pep through and through and we're all behind him.

The difference between success and failure is one word, the difference between “what you can get out of college” and “what you can get out of a college.”

We suggest that the band carry along those elongated bass horns even if nobody plays them. People will think they are just stopping for air anyhow.

Winston Bound

To Winston-Salem, one hundred per cent strong. This game has always been an annual event for Davidson and every student is expected to attend. We lost last Saturday, but what of it? No team has ever put up a gamer scrap against such heavy odds or shown a finer losing spirit. Carolina can be beat. V. M. I. has proved that beyond any doubt. According to comparative scores we are as good as they are, but win or lose, let’s be there and put the lungs behind the team. You won’t be accommodating anybody. Winston will show you a good time and when we win and the game goes down in history, you'll be proud to say you were an eye-witness. Get the coin somewhere; borrow, beg, steal or save, but anyhow watch Davidson win!

Davidson Spirit

SATURDAY'S exhibition was the greatest demonstration of true school spirit seen at Davidson College since long before any of the present student body first darkened its venerated doors. Starting with the parade, which made a very creditable impression on the Queen City populace, the whole affair was one well backed up by the traditional Davidson pep. As to the team, nothing else was expected, and a harder fight could not have been possible. The rally against Georgia Tech was declared by some the most spectacular evidence of gameness they had ever witnessed. Well, they should have seen that touchdown in the fourth quarter. Putting across a sixty-yard drive with the score thirty to nothing takes something just any team hasn't got. That one quarter was worth three trips to Charlotte to any man who had the least bit of scrap in him at all. And then the student body. It didn’t take any manhood to get out and yell before the game started, anybody could do that. But when the score was getting lopsided and everything looked bad, that’s when it counted. Right up until the last the band kept playing and the men kept yelling, showing what they really had in them. Were you in it? If not, be there Saturday and show Winston-Salem and the whole South that your college has “got the stuff.”

Charlotte Wakes Up

We have often heard complaints about Charlotte support, but the time has now come to apologize. From a city the size of Charlotte little could be expected that was not done for the complete success of the day. For the week preceding the game the papers were generously giving the necessary publicity, and helping most effectively to advertise the affair. The local organizations were also doing their part. They were planning for the entertainment of the visitors and to those who were present it is needless to say that their efforts met with great success. Especially appreciated was the reception held at the Manufacturers Club. The loyal supporters of Davidson, particularly the Queens College girls, were heard from until the final whistle blew. This is the kind of support we need and the kind we appreciate. Arrangements had also been made to have the aviator drop streamers over the field, but his machine was out of order and this part of the program had to be dispensed with. Yes, good citizens of Charlotte, apologies are in order. We had a good time and thank you for it.

OPEN FORUM

(Editor’s Note—Anyone wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let's have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

Wants Social Life Developed at Davidson

Senior Speaking is approaching and we who do not actively participate in the event are supposed to enjoy it as dances are enjoyed at other colleges. However, in the whole college not one man out of ten will have a girl on the Hill, and to most of the men not in fraternities this event will be little more than a possible slackening up in the regular routine to hear the orators of the class of 1920 solve the problems of the day.

We will have only ten days at home Christmas and having had no social life for four months, we are going to get our fill of what is generally termed “a good time,” but which is pretty hard on us physically if not morally. We cannot prevent the possible harm of these ten days, but we might alleviate it by making our college life more interesting by an occasional break, with a social function that all the students might be able to take part in and not a limited number. Is it as essential that a man be able to be congenial with girls as it is for girls to learn the same art with men? If this part of a man's education is neglected—why has this neglect so long existed? Present conditions is the expense to the student who invites the girl. In non-sectarian colleges dances add more attraction to the social periods, but I fear such a thing is out of the question in Davidson, which has never yet departed from the strictest rules of the Presbyterian Church. But would it be possible to have one dance on the Hill each term, if that dance was well conducted? The men who really want to dance go to Charlotte, beyond the supervision of the college. It certainly seems like bad system for a man to have to cut himself off entirely from having a good time in civilized country like this. When we were training our men to fight we gave them everything necessary to keep up their morale.including a reasonable amount of social life for every soldier from the private to the highest officer. Here we are training not to fight, but to live and to teach others to live, but conditions perhaps unavoidable prevent the larger percentage of us from meeting and talking to girls as well as overcoming bashfulness in a number of us. Let's hear more discussion of this matter. Titus.

Rhodes Scholarship

May I be permitted to write a few words regarding Davidson College and the Rhodes Scholarships? My proposition is that Davidson College has not taken enough interest in its students in regard to this matter. My proofs are threefold.

First. W. P. Mills, of South Carolina, and myself are the only representatives Davidson has sent during the 14 years of the scholarship. This, when Davidson is educating the highest type of men of the South and giving them the finest type of education in the country!

Secondly. When I applied I received no advice and encouragement from the faculty. I had to discover all I could about the scholarships unaided by those who should have had an interest in such matter. Furthermore, when I had secured the appointment the college was so dilatory in sending my records that I was, I think, the last American to apply for a college at Oxford. I had to request the authorities of the University to change my college after my assignment as the first college in which I was accepted was for many reasons undesirable.

Thirdly. As one of the committee to select Rhodes scholars for Georgia, I had occasion to note the difference between the papers from Davidson and those from other colleges. The Davidson papers were the last to arrive. They came in separate batches, and the second batch arrived after October 5. They were not sent to the secretary whose name was plainly printed on the application. They had to be returned because incomplete, and some of the committee did not see the Davidson papers until the day before the date of selection.

Finally, the letters from the college authorities have much weight with the committee. Those from University of Georgia, Emory et al, went into details. Told what they knew of the men, were explicit in regard to their leadership and scholarship and athletic interest. Told of their honors and what those honors meant. Not so with the Davidson professors. They said the applicants had admirable characters, and a few other qualities. All seventeen of the Georgia applicants were students. We wanted to know wherein one man stood out above his fellows.

It is my opinion that Davidson for its size develops more men of the Rhodes Scholarship timber than any college or university in America. It is my earnest desire that someone connected with the college will take enough interest in its promising students to put this matter before them, and then to see that their papers are as full and fair as those from any other college.

B. R. Lacy, Jr.

Our Flag

During 1916 and 1917 the imperial German government refused to respect the “Stars and Stripes,” our American flag, and sunk our ships bearing this sacred emblem of our country. We went to war, fought, bled and died that this flag which upholds the ideals of a democratic country should not perish from the earth. For the slightest insult to the colors pro-Germans and Germans in this country then were subject to mob violence and federal punishment. We stood at attention listening to the Star-Spangled Banner to honor its being raised to float for us while we were serving our country and when the shadows of evening were nearing we again stood at attention while “to the colors” sounded and “Old Glory” was lowered and folded for keeping at night.

Have we forgotten all this—the things that have meant life and death to us—the standard that meant democracy or autocracy? We have certainly forgotten something. Old Glory was raised upon our flagpole some two weeks ago and has withstood the winds and rains day and night every hour since. This is not the only place that this occurrence is present, but we find it in our cities, on public buildings, etc. It is generally agreed that we should not stop our work as civilians to salute the flag as it is hoisted, or stand at attention as our National Anthem is played, except in audiences or public gatherings, but it is agreed nationally that we respect our flag and it certainly is disrespectful to allow it to stay up overnight and to be water-soaked and wrapped about the staff.

E. Pluribus Unum.

GRADED SCHOOL HONOR ROLL MONTH OF OCTOBER

Second Grade—Meta Brown, Christine Mooney, Edith Robinson, Oscar Crews, J. K. Justice.

Third Grade—Elizabeth Thompson, Edna Varnadore, Susie Jackson, Daisy Caldwell, Leona Robinson, Sophie Cathey.

Fourth Grade—James Caldwell, John D. McConnell, Connie Cauthen.

Fifth Grade—Morris Sigmon.

Sixth Grade—Ursula Abbott, Mary Hamilton, Kitty Martin, Graham Johnston, Sidney Proctor.

Seventh Grade—Ruth Johnston, Sara Barnette.

Eighth Grade—Sophia Richards.

Ninth Grade—Lera Hobbs.

Tenth Grade—Martha Hamilton, Inez Christenbury, Mary Blythe.

Eleventh Grade—Sarah Hamilton, Annie Lois Barnette.

BIBLE CLASSES TAKE VACATION

Bible classes were held on a few floors last Sunday morning but it was generally understood that there would be no meeting, on account of the fact that everybody had been to the game and was up late Saturday night. Every floor will have a class next Sunday at the regular hour and everybody is urged to come out.

(Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

MERCER UNIVERSITY

Mercer's heroes who fought against the Hun in France and the submarine in the Atlantic have organized a club to be known as the Overseas Club. The purpose is to foster and promote the interests of Mercer always; to uphold and maintain one hundred percent Americanism, to keep alive the memories of our common experiences in the great war.—The Orange and Black.

MARYVILLE COLLEGE (TENN)

The Tar Heel Club of Maryville met last week for the purpose of reorganization. It is said that there is a lively bunch from the Old North State on the Hill this year and they are planning to have a good time from now on.—The Highland Echo.

CLEMSON

Last Saturday evening the Cosmopolitan Club, composed of out-of-state men, held a banquet at the Y. M. C. A. cafeteria, which was the first of its kind to be given on the campus this year.—The Tiger.

OGLETHORPE

The mosquitoes have been raiding some of the buildings, in fact such a horde raided the hall last Sunday that the students had to defend themselves with tennis rackets, umbrellas and shoes. One was even reported to have gone into a trunk in search of heavy underwear on account of cold weather.—The Petrel.

RUTGERS COLLEGE (N. J.)

A campaign to revive college spirit is on at Rutgers and each class is required to report for cheering and singing.—The Targum.

GA. TECH

The cost of the trip to Pittsburgh for the Tech band, which included thirty-two men, was $2,200. This money was raised by selling tags and donations from outside sources.—The Technique.

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA

The “Counsellors,” a club in the Law Department, has made its appearance as one of the foremost clubs of the University. A Mathematics Club has also been organized.—The Red and Black.

TRUE

You can’t always judge a man by his friends, but you can invariably judge him by his lack of friends—Furman Hornet.

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY

The University is to be host to the Southern Oratorical League next spring. Representatives from Southern universities will be present to take part.—The Kentucky Kernel.

LAFAYETTE COLLEGE (PA.)

Lafayette has sixteen new men on the college faculty, bringing new teaching forces to practically every department in the college.—The Lafayette.