WHO'S WHO AND WHERE.

For several weeks short accounts of certain Davidson men who have risen to positions of prominence in the army have appeared in this paper. For the benefit of its readers, The Davidsonian is publishing in this issue a full list of all alumni who have risen in the service as high as the position of captain. It is to be noted that 28 captains, 8 majors, and 2 lieutenant-colonels appear on the list. Taking into consideration the fact that Davidson has never at any time before this war had a system of military training, but has been purely an academic institution, the above figures are to be appreciated:

Lieutenant-Colonels.
Thomas D. Osborne, '01, F.A.
Donnell E. Scott, '07.

Majors.
L. B. Crayton, '15, F.A.
James L. Long, Jr., '06, Cavalry, on General Pershing’s Staff.
W. C. Lott, '01, F.A.
J. W. McConnell, '01, Med. Corps.
J. D. McDowell, '94, Med. Corps.
H. W. McKay, '06, Med. Corps.
J. S. Simmons, '11, Med. Corps.
Walter G. Somerville, ex-'16, Inf.

Captains.
James Allen, '11, F.A.
James M. Austin, ex-'18, Inf.
Fred LeRoy Black, ex-'09, 19th Inf.
E. T. Cansler, '10, Asst. Judge Advocate, 89th Division.
James H. Carson, '16, F.A.
Wm. Lee Davidson, ex-'10, Med. Corps.
H. L. Elliott, Jr., '19, 317th F.A.
Thomas L. Grier, ex-'10, Cavalry.
James C. Harper, '15, Inf.
Wm. Blair Hunter, '07, Med. Corps.
P. M. King, '97, Med. Corps.
Ben R. Lacy, '06, Chaplain.
Robt. W. McKay, ex-'17, Won Croix de Guerre.
M. C. McLeod, '13, Art. C.A.C.
F. M. Mack, ex-'10, 118th Inf.
James P. Matheson, '99, Hosp. Unit.
James F. Mills, '96, Gas Corps.
John W. Moore, '06, Med. Corps.
John W. Moore, '12, 91st F.A.
R. R. Morrison, '02, Art. Corps.
Wm. B. Penick, '88, Q.M. Corps.
G. W. Potts, ex-'15, 371st Inf.
T. P. Sprunt, '03.
Wardlaw P. Thomson, '16, Inf.
Cosmo L. Walker, '17, F.A.
P. H. Williams, ex-'95, Inf.
P. M. Williams, Jr., ex-'14, F.A.

Capt. W. L. Davidson, '05, Chester, S.C., has been recently promoted to major in the Medical Corps.

H. A. Dishongh, '08, has returned to his home in Monticello, Ark., after serving several months as a chemist in government service.

J. R. Dunn, '15, of Camden, S.C., will receive his M.D. from Johns Hopkins this spring.

Corp. C. T. Cary, '16, of the Piedmont Battery, F.A. Thirtieth Division, passed through Davidson Saturday en route to his home at China Grove, N.C.

O. J. Thies, '18, of Charlotte, was on the Hill one day last week.

Y. M. C. A. HEARS EXCELLENT ADDRESS BY MR. MILES

The “Y” vesper service last Sunday evening was the last meeting presided over by President Lilly. The attendance was good and the fellows gave earnest attention to the speakers. The meeting was opened with singing, after which Mr. Miles took charge of the program. He spoke on the subject, “Preparation and Co-operation.” He read two passages from the Bible: one from the story of David and Goliath, the other from the story of Gideon and the three hundred. “David was prepared,” he said, “he had made good use of his time and practiced constantly with his sling.” He told of other men who prepared; how Christy Matthewson had practiced pitching through a knot hole in a barn door, and how Sam White, the famous Princeton end rush, practiced picking up the ball on the run, thereby being ready to beat Harvard when the game seemed lost. In the same way, we must get prepared in our spiritual life, which is but a synthesis of all our activities.

Gideon's three hundred are an example of co-operation as well as preparation. From 1903 to 1908 the Cleveland “Naps” never won the championship in spite of the fact that their team was composed of the best players in America.had no co-operation. Just so the Spirit of Christ will hold society together. His Spirit in us will help carry on His Kingdom. President Lilly then made a few farewell remarks: “The co-operation of the cabinet and members has been an inspiration to me,” he said. Here are three standards by which to test our lives: either “Be satisfied with your standing among your neighbors (but a hypocrite can have a good reputation)” or “Be pure and true to yourself. Are you satisfied with your own life?” or “Do you stand right with God? You can't be neutral, you are either for or against Him.” “If you satisfy the last, you satisfy all three.” He closed his address by urging everybody to back up the new officers and to co-operate with them.

GOLF. Unusual interest and rivalry have been shown on the golf course during the past week. The weather being excellent afforded an opportunity for the golfers to work on the handicaps before the tournament. Several of the players are expecting to go to Charlotte soon and see the professionals, Jim Barnes, Mike Brady, Ed Fue, and Carl Anderson, play. If you will recall, Carl Anderson came up to Davidson and explained a few of the strokes to the club last year. So it will be well worth while to see these games at Charlotte and observe closely the movements. Dr. Arbuckle is hoping to have two of the professionals here to give the club a few pointers and new strokes.

YEARNINGS OF MANY HEARTS ABOUT TO BE SATISFIED That long-hoped-for improvement has almost arrived, viz: the reconstruction of the tennis courts. Those who have seen the rolls of chicken wire may have imagined that the college was going in for poultry farming, but the fact of the matter is that the tennis courts are going to be put in shape for stopping a few more of the wild shots, instead of necessitating a hundred-yard dash after each serve. Also, posts have been erected on the courts near the post office. So all the artists of the racquet and sphere may take heart and anticipate an opportunity to follow their desires of indulging in this pastime in the days to come, without waiting two hours to play fifteen minutes.

TOWN NEWS. Mrs. Martin has returned from Salisbury for the weekend. Dr. Martin's condition is considered as satisfactory as could be expected. He is quite weak but is gaining slowly, and the doctors think, surely.

Mrs. Will Thompson has returned to her home in Charlotte, after spending ten days with Miss Hattie Thompson, who has been one of the “flu” victims. Miss Thompson has recovered and returned to her post in Mr. Jackson's office.

Mrs. W. A. Shands, of Clinton, S.C., is visiting her niece, Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Messrs. Louis Potts, Henry Cathey, Herbert Thompson, Rome Christy, and Clyde Fisher, who have been overseas with the Piedmont Artillery company, have arrived at home. Capt. R. R. Morrison, of Mount Mourne, class ’02, was in command of the company, and has also returned to his home.

Little maiden, Long tight skirt, Naughty, naughty, You'll get hurt! Street car step Long tight skirt, Maiden slips, Hits the dirt!

MODERN. “The ancients considered the appendix the seat of affection, but what is the seat now?” Bright Voice: —Ex. “The knee.”

“What are you doing?” “Writing to my son at college.” “But that's a check you're writing.” “Well?”

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics We hope to have the opportunity of showing you ——EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR----- ED. MELLON CO. Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS BALLS, MITS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES Come In and Look Them Over F. A. THOMAS

Rumple Farm Produce L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS, AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Bought and Sold