THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

Colonel McConnell Has Had Great Career in Civil and Military Life

Mr. R. B. Cunningham, Jr., '19, may be found in Atlanta, Ga., where he has a position with the Retail
Credit Co., Inc. The service of this firm in obtaining financial ratings on firms and individuals extends over the United
States.

With the College in Peace and Record Army in War His Is Most Brilliant

John Wilson McConnell was born at McConnellsville, S. C., in 1878. Entering Davidson in 1898, he graduated with the B.S.
degree in 1902, having won the Debater’s and Declaimer’s medals. In 1905 he received the M.A. degree. He studied medicine
at the North Carolina Medical College, which was then located at Davidson. His medical work was continued at the University
of Maryland. In 1907, having received his M.D., he became house surgeon at the Presbyterian Eye and Ear Hospital, in
Baltimore. He held this position until in the fall of 1908 he began his work as Professor of Biology and
Physical Training.

In 1916 Dr. McConnell served on the Mexican border. In 1917 he was a captain in the Medical Corps at
Camp Jackson. He went to France in 1918, and was promoted to the rank of major, and later to that
of lieutenant colonel. On the 15th of May, 1919, he again reached America. Since then, though still in the service,
he has visited Davidson frequently.

Because of his absence since the end of the college year 1916-17, Dr. McConnell is not well known personally to
many students now on the hill except those who entered with the present Senior class. To all of them he
is a well-known personal friend; to all who have been interested in the college in recent years he is recognized
as having performed a very distinctive and valuable service to it. Being still in the service, Dr. McConnell is not
filling his place this year. It is a pleasant anticipation, however, that in the future he will again be a
part of the active faculty.

ALUMNI NEWS

Tim Pharr, ’12, is again on the hill to help Coach Crayton, and will probably be here until about the
middle of November.

Greensboro, N. C., seems to like Davidson men. R. E. Denny, '09, is Boy Scout Executive for the city, and
J. R. Rumple, ex-'13, is there for a short time in the interest of the chemical industry.

Coach Fetzer thought it worth while to see the Davidson-V. M. I. game last Saturday.

George King, '18, is now at Bristol, Tenn., where he is engaged in the shoe trade with his father.

The Davidson-U. S. C. game was refereed by “Red” Edgerton, '09. Dr. Edgerton is now practicing in Columbia, S.C.

W. W. Morton, ‘09, was a chaplain with the 322nd Inf., A. E. F., and is at present doing young
people’s work with the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C.

Rev. W. M. Hunter, '93, was on the campus last week.

Dr. H. W. McKay, ‘06, better known to his classmates as ‘Poss; Dr. Oren Moore, ’07, and Mr. L. H.
Wilkinson, '13, are some of our young alumni in Charlotte displaying active interest in the Davidson-N. C. State game.

The Gastonia Daily Gazette is fortunate in having as its editor Mr. H. A. Query, ‘07. His editorials are both
timely and very interesting, and have been recently quoted in Charlotte and other papers.

G. P. Scott, '19, has been made treasurer of the city of Statesville, N.C. He assumed his new duties last
week.

A. M. Inman’s friends may address him at York, S. C., where he is busily engaged in serving his fellows
and pursuing the Almighty Dollar, including the class of '19.

R. D. Hall, '19, has a responsible position in the offices of the Belmont Mills, Belmont, N.C.

Dr. R. Earl Watkins, '12, accompanied by Mrs. Watkins, and Chesley Watkins, ex-’09, of Statesville, N. C., spent Saturday on
the campus. Dr. Watkins has been a surgeon in the Navy, and received his discharge last week. Before taking up
post-graduate work at Philadelphia in the study of children’s diseases, he is spending some time visiting relatives and friends in
North Carolina.

The resignation of Hon. James Ed-Mond Boyd, '66, as United States District Judge, is of interest to all Davidson men.
Judge Boyd is one of Davidson’s most prominent alumni in the field of law, and a more detailed article concerning
his work will be published in the next issue. He has recently been to Mayo Brothers, Rochester, Minn., for his
health. We understand that Mrs. Carrol is very ill with typhoid fever. They have the best wishes of their Davidson
friends for an early and complete recovery.

Harvey Lee Morrison, '87, father of W. G. Morrison, '16, died at his home in Okolona, Miss., on October 24,
1919.

Capt. J. C. Harper, '15, is with the Guaranty Trust Co., in New York City.

G. W. Gignilliat, '15, is a teacher in the English department of the Naval Academy at Annapolis. Dr. C. Alphonse
Smith, '86, and Prof. J. W. Prall, '08, are in the same department.

Robert McDowell, '08, has been appointed by the State Board as county chairman of the Mecklenburg County Board of Charities
and Welfare. Mr. McDowell is now farming near Charlotte on route 3. After leaving Davidson he took graduate work at
the University of Chicago.

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Nov. 10, 11, and 12
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. B. Marshall.
MAX LAUBRE—In a Novelty of Whistling and Entertaining.
REIFF BROTHERS and MISS MURRAY—A Syncopated Travesty.
LEON KIMBERLY and HELEN PAGE offer "SPRING IS CALLING" by Leon Kimberly.
PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.

Harry W. Summerville, ex-'19, is in General Hospital No. 21, Brunell, Colorado. He expects to be released this winter and
enter the University of Colorado at Boulder.

Malcolm J. Shirley, '15, and Miss Neila Simpson, will be married at Chester, S. C., on Wednesday, October 29. Mr.
Shirley is now practicing law at Honea Path, S. C.

Rev. Robert S. Arrowood, '77, of Candor, N. C., died suddenly at the home of his daughter, Mrs. A. M.
Harrington, at Sanford, N. C., October 31, 1919. He seemed to be in his usual health and had stopped overnight
with Mrs. Harrington on his way home from the annual meeting of Synod in Raleigh. Mr. Arrowood was a member
of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, he himself and four of his sons having graduated here. Mrs. Arrowood
and Rev. R. S. Arrowood, Jr., were with him when the end came.

Gang Carrol, '17, of Jackson, Tenn., is at home in Greenwood, Miss.

H. A. Dishongh, '18, is pursuing studies in medicine at Columbia University.

J. H. Weeks, ex-'18, is working in Little Rock, Ark.

Their many friends sympathize with Maynard and Nathan Fountain, '18 and ex-'19, respectively, in the recent death of their father.

Guy Humphrey, '18, is in the cotton business at Greenwood, Miss.

Program Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 13, 14, and 15
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. B. Marshall.
WRENN and CUNNINGHAM TWINS—Trio of Clever Eccentric Dancers.
DEMAREST and DOLL—The Man, the Girl, and the Piano, "A Variety of Musical Nonsense."
JOSEPHINE DAVIS with NEAL HELVEY and FRED BRILL—Saxophone Cornetist. Special Songs by Mr. Helvey.
WILSON BROTHERS—The Lieutenant and the Cop.
PATHE NEWS—ROLAND COMEDY.

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats
You will find our stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear—the Best of Quality.
Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts
We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly.
MELLON’S
8, 10 WEST TRADE ST.

ENGRAVED
Business and Social Stationery, Invitations, Announcements, Monograms. Holidays are nearing. Place your orders for Calling Cards and Social Stationery now
so you will be sure of it then. W. A. Foil, Jr., of Davidson College is our representative.
Queen City Printing Company
14 and 16 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Drink PEPSI-COLA
Stimulating Exhilarating

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS, AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold
