8 Bg = \‘ ype CANDIES

When you don't want to short of the very best give Norris Exquisite Candies

WHITE DRUG CO., Agents

GENTLEMEN
Send your next batch of films to
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Charlotte, N. C.
EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt.

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
No. 30 and 26 Chambers

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
611 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

On account of the rain here on the campus, a rain should have

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 15, 1919

Devotional News
Upholding of College Traditions Urged by Bob Miles
Rain Cause of Small Crowd—Lesson of “Fair Play” Excellently Brought Out

The attendance at the “Y” service last Sunday evening was comparatively small on account of the rain. It seems that just the opposite effect should have occurred. At any rate, those who were not present certainly missed a good meeting. Bob Miles led the service. Before his talk, he made a request, which is a typical example of his interest in every phase of the student life, that every member of the student body meet him at 12:15 Tuesday morning at the front entrance of the campus to welcome the team as they return. Each fellow on the team ought to know that every fellow on the hill is right behind him.

Mr. Miles took as his subject a verse which is often called the most beautiful verse in the Old Testament—Micah 6:8. He showed that Micah was preaching in the midst of just the same conditions as exist in America today, and that as one reads the book it might almost be taken for an editorial in one of the present-day publications. He then took this verse and applied it so plainly to the student life that everyone present felt that he had received something that would be of great benefit to him.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS SHOW SIGNS OF DECREASE. OTHERS GAIN.

What's the matter with the Sunday Schools? All but three of the country schools had a very noticeable falling-off in attendance. This was probably due to the fact that Rally Day had boosted the attendance to a high mark last week. However, this mark should be a goal to work after as two have already passed their mark. Caldwell was first in percentage, having increased from sixty to sixty-four. Close after Caldwell came Cornelius with an increase to sixty-eight from sixty-four. Five teachers were present at each of these two schools. Oak Grove stood still with the same number of teachers and pupils as on the previous Sunday—four teachers and thirty-two pupils. Brawley’s was third in percentage, having eighty-one per cent—five teachers with a total of forty-six. Shearer Chapel had forty-five, or a percentage of forty and only five teachers, as against last Sunday's nine. Cowan's showed a decrease of seventy-five per cent, a drop from forty-six to eleven, four of this number being teachers.

WAKE UP EARLY SUNDAY MORNING IS CRY OF BIBLE CLASSES.

Fellows, where were you last Sunday morning at 10 o'clock? Only two hundred and fifteen were present at the Bible classes conducted at that time, while two hundred and sixty-three was the number present the previous Sunday. He showed that as with the Jews of old so now with us God does not require merely the formalities of church attendance on the Sabbath, but rather that men “do justly, love mercy and walk humbly with their God.” America prides herself as being a nation where justice rules. Davidson is built on a foundation of justice both in the honor system and the student life. Then every man on the campus should make justice his standard and make his own life as well as the student body spirit what it ought to be. In everything that he does he should remember the other fellow and give him a square deal.

America also prides herself on being a merciful nation. Every true man is merciful. If he is other than this, he becomes a brute. Mercy blesses both he who gives and he who receives. So on the campus, if mercy is really shown, it will bring about a fellowship which could come in no other way.

As his last point Mr. Miles showed that although a man might be well developed in both mind and body, yet if his spirit life is not developed, he is not four-square. But how can he develop this most important side of his life? Mr. Miles pointed as the answer toThe last phrase of this verse—"walk humbly with thy God." He described vividly the walk which a college fellow often takes with his best friend out some country road and left this thought impressed on each one's mind—"walk and live with thy God."

The guitar and mandolin selections by Hamilton, Bitzer, and Nesbit were very good and added much to the program.

BIBLE CLASS.

The Bible classes have been running for a month now with good attendance and results, but we do not want to be content with good but desire the best. Every man in college should attend one of these classes on Sunday morning—you can't afford to miss it. There is one on your floor, so make it a point to be there next Sunday morning at 10.

We are trying to get down to practical campus problems this year and your opinion in the discussion will help. You owe it to yourself—you owe it to the student body to be there. Next Sunday we will start on the social ideals of Jesus. Did you ever hear of such a period of social unrest as we are now having? Will Jesus' teachings on the Kingdom of God help to quiet the unrest? What is your conception of that kingdom? Did you ever think of it starting here? Let us spread it on this campus. Don't forget, Sunday at 10 a.m.

HERE'S RELIGIOUS FORECAST FOR NEXT SUNDAY'S attendance for the previous week. Two floors, third floor Watts and second floor east Rumple, reported perfect attendance. Louisiana was the only dormitory having as many present as on the previous Sunday, having sixteen each time. Rumple lost only two men this week, leaving them fifty. Georgia had twenty-nine as against forty-one for the previous Sunday. Watts dropped fourteen, thus leaving her thirty-five. Chambers had eighty-five present but this was a decrease of twenty from the last meeting. Don't fail to be present next Sunday to boost the attendance over the three hundred mark.

THERE is Another FELLOW Who Went to BED THE Other Night Feeling TIRED but CONTENTED. WHEN the Chapel Bell Rang That Morning He HOPPED out, Dressed and WALKED To Chapel. He was PREPARED on his Tickets, "SHOT" 3 Profs and in TWO Vacant Periods Wrote up his Lab book and GOT ONE LESSON. Went at LAB with a VIM, then EXERCISED an hour. After his Bath He wrote a LETTER Home; put in the Remaining half hour before Supper STUDYING. Loafed till seven-thirty And Then started studying. When he had Finished there was enough Time to READ a few Chapters in that Peachy novel. He hadn't done ANYTHING REMARKABLE, but Attended TO FIRST THINGS FIRST. Hence the SATISFACTION. SAY, but he SLEPT well. DO You Know HIM?

Ability is a poor man's wealth—Matthew Wren.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson. FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don't pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to "go to it." We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

Look over our line of Oil, Wood, and Coal Heaters at the Davidson Hardware Co.

"Who Builds Your Clothes?" An important question for every man to decide. Let Barrymore help you. A full line of all wool fabrics, latest models, all guaranteed.

Matthews & Wilson, Representatives
16 Chambers

Mention the Davidsonian When You Patronize Advertisers.