The DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1919

WITH OUR ALUMNI HERE AND THERE
(Continued from page 1)

C. F. Allen, ex-’19, of Columbia Theological Seminary, is the proud father of a bouncing baby. Already he looks forward in happy anticipation of his young son entering the classic halls of old Davidson.

D. Ralph Freeman, ex-'20, is with the American troops in France. His address is Hdq. Co., 323 Inf., A. P. O. 791, A.E.F.

Chaplain Ben Lacy—"The Fighting Parson.”
The following incident was recently published in The News and Observer. It is part of a letter from Lieut. S. M. Gattis, Jr., telling of the bravery of Chaplain Ben Lacy, ‘06, under fire, and how Chaplain Lacy received the title “The Fighting Parson.” The lines quoted are as follows:

“Ben Lacy has been dubbed ‘The Fighting Parson.’ The other day when Fritz's batteries were extremely naughty he took a reel of wire, a telephone, and a telescope and crawled out to a high hill between the lines and from there directed the fire of our batteries. He did this for three days hand running and we demolished several enemy batteries, put their roads practically out of commission and every time a Boche came into view Parson Lacy poured it into them. One particular instance is worth mentioning. He caught sight of a building that looked like a barracks way back of the line. He telephoned back its exact position, being one of the most skilled artillery officers in the outfit, and ordered concentrated fire on it, all guns firing at the same time. When the twelve guns spoke, the building collapsed. Then the parson scattered his fire and took them from all sides as they poured out of the building. There were several connected on to the telephone with him, and all swear he said: ‘Give ‘em hell.’ He swears he didn't.”

Chaplain B. R. Lacy finished at Davidson in 1906. He stood prominent in athletics, oratory, and the classroom. He played on the Varsity baseball team and was quarterback on the football team, and was known familiarly as ‘Ben.’ In his Sophomore year he was class president, and in his Senior year took honors by winning the Senior Orator’s medal. After graduating, Mr. Lacy won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, England. Coming back to America, he entered Union Theological Seminary, and here again distinguished himself by winning the Hoge Fellowship, the highest honor given at this Seminary. Mr. Lacy enlisted as chaplain when America entered the war, and has now been overseas several months. At the alumni banquet last May 27, Chaplain Lacy was unanimously elected vice-president of the Davidson Alumni Association.

Sgt. Stone is With Other Davidsonians.
A member of The Davidsonian staff has in hand a letter from Sgt. Hamilton Stone, ‘18, last year’s editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian. Stone is stationed with the 8th Company, 2nd Training Battalion, 156th Depot Brigade, Camp Jackson. He is eagerly looking forward to his coveted discharge from Uncle Sam, after getting which he anticipates a visit to the old campus. His letter is, in part: “Everyday I long for my discharge. But I seem to be out of luck.” “Today Siske and Chas. Worth took dinner with me. Harry Elliott is nearby, also Campbell. Mr. Robinson, a “Y” secretary, ‘14, is a good sport and is located in the “Y” attended by the noble and fighting 156th. Over at Sevier I saw Jim Miller, Fairley, Cloyd Potts, and others. Those old Davidson men turn up everywhere and it always does one so much good to come across them.

“We have a Bible study here on Sunday morning. By ‘here’ I mean our Social Center. It is two Sundays old, and I conducted each time. But next meeting Corporal Hall, from A. & F., will conduct it. The nature of the course is a study of great types of men in the New and Old Testaments...

“There are manifold opportunities for good in the Army. Our library here is a good one—can get ‘most anything you want. I do quite a bit of reading. Just at present I'm reading Twain's ‘Joan of Arc.’ Recently I read John Fiske’s two-volume history of ‘The American Revolution.’

“Last Sunday I went over to (Continued on page 6)

We Knock the Spots Out
The Charlotte Steam Laundry
KEY and McCASKILL, Agts.
We'll get 'em on Monday Nights

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Rembrandt Studio
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WILL CONVINCE YOU.
27 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office
O. J. RADER, Proprietor

TYPEWRITING
A. P. ORMOND

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don't please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Quality and Service

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time?
Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
Engraved Work a Specialty

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643) NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

Spalding Ice Skates
For Every Member of the Family
Toboggans, Skis, Snowshoes, Hockey Supplies, Etc.
Catalogue on request,
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., Inc.
Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling