The DAVIDSONIAN, March 5, 1919

The Forum

Fellows, there is a Golf club at Davidson! It belongs to the college and the college has turned it over to the students to make it a success. Up to this time its success has been complete, enjoyed both by the faculty and students, and now stands as one of the few courses in North Carolina that has its head up in the financial line.

Why is golf becoming the national pastime? Because old and young alike can partake of its pleasures. Everywhere it is taking its stand. The game can be learned easily and has only to be played once to bring the player over among the horde of golf enthusiasts.

If you have no clubs or balls, they can be procured immediately and very cheaply. The fee for the term regularly is five dollars ($5.00), but on account of the demoralizing effect of conditions last fall, the club has lowered the fee to three dollars ($3.00) for the rest of the term. This money is used economically and directly on the upkeep of the course.

This spring, between the 1st and 15th of April, a handicap tournament will be held. In this tournament, everyone, though he may never have touched a golf stick before, has an equal chance. There will be three prizes given. The matches will be played in twosomes or foursomes and will be refereed. Look for the progress of the tournament on the side of the golf club house and on the bulletin boards.

Let everyone, those who play and those who have never played, join now! Let's enter the tournament! We all have equal chances! Let's put it over and start the ball rolling in grand style.

WILLIAM LOVE, EX-'20, WRITES OF EXPERIENCES

Through the courtesy of one of the students, The Davidsonian is publishing a few extracts from a letter received from William Love, ex-'20, who enlisted in the Marines last May and has now been in France several months.

"A.E.F., A.P.O. 205,
France, Jan. 26, 1919.

"We landed in Brest the latter part of September and remained in a 'rest' camp there for about a month. We laid our blankets down on the ground in our little 'pup' tents, and that was 'all the bloomin’ hole we could find.' For rest and recreation, we could slip up and down the hillside in the mud.

"Instead of going to the front though, when we moved, we went to Bordeaux. We rode in freight cars, bearing the legend, 'forty men, eight horses.' Horses are lucky over here—only eight of them to a car, and forty of us. We were about two days on the train, passing through Nantes and La Rochelle. I saw some pretty country along in there—that is, when I was fortunate enough to look out of the window. I hope to get to see more before I have to cross the raging foam on my way back home. But if it must be seen under such circumstances as was the last—Oh, France, thy beauties fade!

"Our company was assigned to guard the American docks at Bassens, six miles down the river from Bordeaux. Here we have been and continue to be. We are pretty well fixed up with big tents, eight men to the tent, wooden bunks, double-decked. New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Massachusetts, Mississippi, and Kansas are represented. Quite a cosmopolitan lot!

"We stand watch for six hours and are off duty twenty-four. Here's what I've been doing lately: Last night at 11 o'clock, awoke to go on watch. From midnight to 6 this morning stood watch. Breakfast, shave, clean rifle, fall out for inspection, clean up tent—thus occupied until 10 a.m. From 10 to 2—dormi, no manger. I'll mark time till about 8, then to bed, to get up at 5 in the morning to go on watch again.

"I'll probably be mustered out at Quantico, Va., and if I get there before June, I will stop off at old D.C. for sure.

"Give my best regards to all my friends, both in the student body and the faculty.

"William Love
Pvt.
Co. A, 11th Reg, U.S. Marines."

A MINSTREL IN FRANCE

If you are looking for an interesting book, this is it. Harry Lauder could not write a book, any more than he could give one of his inimitable entertainments, without making humor bubble all through it. Many times you will close the volume on your fingers and, sitting quietly, let the fun of the thing play all through your anatomy with that pleasurable agitation that nothing but real humor can produce.

There is, however, far more than humor here. The deepest, tenderest pathos (humor's tearful twin-sister) is met on almost every page. The book had its birth in the pangs of a father's grief for a son fallen in action—it could not but register suffering. The marvelous way in which a suffering heart opens itself to its like-suffering fellows as a very fountain of sympathetic comfort makes the book a study in the psychology both of sorrow and of comfort.

If you wish to see an artist's soul disclosed, read it. If you wish to see a brave manWith a breaking heart, stand up and make other men with agonizing souls, for a little, forget their heartbreaks: if you wish to learn how fathers love their sons, read it. If you wish an insight into the life of soldiers in the trenches; if you wish to have your faith in man's immortality strengthened, then read this book.

CAPUSISMS.

Henry Massey is sporting a bandaged head as a result of “prepping” with Jim McKeldin. A good many fellows were found at the athletic field last week watching baseball practice. Seating accommodations (for a few) have been installed in the post office. F. A. Thomas has opened a sporting goods store in the building in which Geo. Beall caters to the youths of the campus. He carries a full line of athletic supplies. The student body in general celebrated Washington's birthday by getting shot. The war is over. Mr. Elliot's candy has dropped in price. The golf links have been put in shape for spring use. Window panes are being installed in the dormitories in anticipation of Junior speaking.

An old colored woman went to the station to catch a train and on the bulletin board she read this: “All trains on time Sept. 1.” She read it thus: “All trains on time ‘cep one.” “Well,” she sighed, “I guess that mus’ be th’ ole Southern.”—Ex.

After Thots On the Evangelistic Services

Informal Discussion Held by Ministerial Band.

There was some “sure ‘nough” special music in Shearer chapel last Friday evening. In the absence of a pianist, the selections were sung in the “good old-fashioned way.” It was an inspiration just to hear these vocal organs turn loose full-blast without the encumbrance of a piano. In other respects, too, this meeting of the Ministerial Band was just such a success as would be expected after a revival such as the campus witnessed the first part of the week. Every member present was given an opportunity to discuss the blessings of the evangelistic campaign and our duty to keep them going. Many helpful thoughts and observations were brought out in informal talks. The necessity of being sure of one's calling, to avoid “the calamity of the misfit,” was strikingly brought before the band. The crying sin of indifference was shown to call for wholehearted, energetic action in the service of such a wonderful Leader and King. The hardest lesson and therefore possibly the strongest was that of perseverance—to go back where one had failed in his own strength and there strive to make good through the renewed strength and courage of complete consecration. It was agreed that the services were most interesting, to say the least, and that Dr. Myers’ straightforward, friendly style ought well to be imitated in working to reach young men. It was also agreed that a very important factor in the campaign was the united prayers of all the fellows. Therefore, in the light of this helpful experience, it is the duty as well as the privilege of every Christian on the Hill to endeavor to join again in the regular “floor prayer meetings” every Wednesday evening at 10 o'clock. The band will not meet this week on account of Junior Speaking. At the next meeting, March 21, at 6:45 p.m., the subject to be discussed is “Women’s Rights in the Church.”

He was looking for a chance to pop the question and the girl was not averse. “Did you pay my little brother to remain out of the parlor?” she asked. “Yes; I hope I was not presuming.” “You were not. But if you paid him, I won't.” They're engaged now.—Louisville Courier Journal.

EXCHANGES.

Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute are now in the midst of their mid-winter festivities. The swimming team of Mass. Institute of Technology overcame Annapolis last week. Their wrestling team was beaten by Harvard. Furman University has returned to the student body government. The form of government that has been in use is the supervisor plan, that is, having a student on each hall responsible for the conduct of the hall. This was unsatisfactory and the students voted to return to the former plan. N.C. beat Washington and Lee in a close game last week. The score was 31-27. Practically all of the colleges heard from are interested in the starting of their R.O.T.C. units. The colleges that sent exchanges last week are: Massachusetts Tech, Washington and Lee, University of N.C., Furman University, Winthrop, Lawrence College, Wis., Guilford, A&M of Oklahoma, V.P., Wofford College, Clemson College, Memphis University School, Converse College.

He—"You look sweet enough to eat.”
She—"I do eat. Where shall we go?"

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South's Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18, 20, and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. E. N. BOOKER, Agt.

THINK IT OVER BOYS you still have time to get one of those “nifty, catch-your-eye” suits, tailored to fit absolutely by the Storrs-Schaefer Company before speaking. Our Samples are now on Display at NO. 13 CHAMBERS Satisfaction or No Deal

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES