| ON TO BLUE RIDGE | 
Vol. VI. 
JUNIORS CHAMPS 
DAVIDSONIAN 
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 30, 1919. 
No. 26 

Both Debates Scheduled for Monday Night 
Mercer Debated in Atlanta, While W. & L. is Met Here.

Both Davidson's Intercollegiate debates will be held next Monday night, the fifth of May. R. D. Hall and Emery Flinn will oppose Mercer University in Atlanta, while W. M. Currie and E. G. Lilly are battling with Washington and Lee on the Hill. The Atlanta debate will be held in the Georgia Tech Y. M. C. A. Auditorium. Though the attractive Agnes Scott auditorium could not be secured, it is hoped that a number of Agnes Scott girls will be present, as well as Alumni of Davidson and Mercer, Tech students, and visitors. A strong team will represent Mercer, and a close contest is expected. Dr. Lyons, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, will act as presiding officer.

Every Davidson student should be in Shearer Hall Monday night for the Davidson-Washington and Lee debate. Arrangements for the contest were made late in the season so that the time of preparation has been much shorter than usual. However, Currie and Lilly have put a good month's work into their speeches and give promise of putting up a snappy contest. Messrs. G. P. Wilson and W. J. Rushton will be the W. and L. speakers. The subject in both debates will be Resolved: "That the U. S. Government should own and operate the Railroads," a subject which practically every college in the country is debating this season. Davidson will defend the negative in both instances. Here's to the success of both teams. They deserve the hearty backing of the whole student body.

GET THE SPIRIT! GO TO BLUE RIDGE!

Dr. Arbuckle, Mr. Miles, and the Y. M. C. A. President are going. In this last week six men in the student body have decided to go. Our goal is twenty-five men for Blue Ridge this summer. No one who has been to a Blue Ridge Conference has ever regretted it. If you are interested, see Mr. Miles or Chalmers about it.

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS OFFICERS.

At a meeting of the Sigma Upsilon Wednesday night, an interesting and profitable discussion of the works and characteristics of Bret Harte was led by E. G. Lilly. At a previous meeting, facts about his life were discussed. A great deal of interest was taken in the discussion as shown by the large number taking part. Love, Pharr, Woods, Humphrey, and Chalmers brought out some good points which threw a great deal of light on the works of Bret Harte. Officers for the coming year were elected and these men will be installed at the next meeting.

BLUE RIDGE

For Blue Ridge Conference to be Held June 13 to 22. Are You Going?

The Southern Conference, under the general management of the International Committee of Y. M. C. A., will take place at Blue Ridge, N. C., from June 13 through June 22. The chief aim of the Conference is to train the college men for greater service in the war against immorality, selfishness, and the lack of good fellowship in student life. Every active worker in the Y. M. C. A. should, if possible, attend this Conference, if the organization is to develop as it should in the Colleges.

The Conference opens on the evening of June 13 and the time will be full until the closing meeting on the 22nd. The daily program will be divided into three parts. In the morning, the time will be spent in class work. The afternoon will be spent in recreation of every description, while lectures by some of the leading men of America will be given at night. The class work will consist of the study of the great Bible principles, of the great world problems, and a series of addresses on Life Callings. The recreation consists of mass games under Physical Directors, tennis, swimming, baseball, basketball, and all the other popular games of the present day. Some days, this time will be spent on hikes to Mt. Mitchell and the many other places of picturesque scenery in the neighboring country.

(Continued on Page 8)

Football Schedule for 1919

Swimming Pool at Blue Ridge

With A. & E. Team First Contest Goes 13 Innings. Trinity Wins 6-2.

The thirteenth inning may have been unlucky in the first part of the week but a combination of Friday and the thirteenth proved too much for A. & E.During this session, they weakened long enough for one tally to come across, finishing the third pitcher's battle of the week, in which the Wildcats were engaged. “Railroad” Clarke was on the mound for Davidson and hurled his usual good game, holding his opponents to only eight safe swats in the thirteen rounds. He was given perfect support in the field and was kept out of danger on several occasions by fast work on the defense.

Spann started things off right by robbing Burrus of a triple in the first inning. After this frame, both sides had little chance to score until the final act. By means of errors and a free ticket, the bases became choked with Spann at the bat. He accidentally laid one in front of the plate and before Murray realized what had happened, McAro crossed the rubber. In their half of this session, A. & E. staged a rally but it failed to materialize. With one down, Norwood was sent in for Sipe and singled. Burrus also connected for a safety. Both runners advanced on a passed ball. Clark settled down and fanned Hudson. P. Johnson planted one in the center field tarbucket and the game was over. The pitching of Clark and Murray, the hitting of the whole Red and Black aggregation, and the grandstand stop by (Continued on page 8).

In Atlanta Track Meet Indications Point Towards a Good Showing By Team.

“Barring accidents and luck breaking our way, we hope to bring the bacon back,” is what Manager Murray says about the track meet in Atlanta next Saturday. Davidson has the best chance she has ever had. The records of the field days and track meets held so far show that Davidson's track team is equal to any in the South. Besides, with thirteen institutions represented, the points are going to be scattered and so the chances for us are all the better. Some of the colleges whom Davidson will contest against are Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Auburn, University of Alabama, University of Georgia, and Georgia Tech.

SERGEANTS HAVE ARRIVED TO ASSIST IN WORK.

Sergeants B.J. O'Connell and Daniel Carrol have arrived here to act as assistants to Col. Mueller. Sergeant O'Connell comes here with five years’ experience. He was last stationed at Camp Shelby, Hattiesburg, Mississippi, with Co. M. of the 29th Infantry. Sergeant Carrol has had three years' experience in the English army, one-half year in the French army, and five years’ previous experience in the U.S. army. His last enlistment was for the period of one year, beginning the middle part of this month. As Sergeant Carrol has had officer experience before, both in and out of the army, he will probably be used largely in office work here.

BATTALION INSPECTION HELD LAST FRIDAY.

The district military inspector, visited Davidson last Friday. The inspection of the Battalion was held Friday morning from 9:30 to 11:00. Col. Conway inspected the Battalion in practically every movement that has been covered this spring and expressed his opinion that it was well drilled. No definite news about R.O.T.C. summer camps could be obtained from Col. Conway, as no appropriation has yet been made for the summer camps. It is hoped, however, that something definite regarding these camps will be learned in the near future.

Lieut.-Col Conway, DRS. MacCONNELL AND LINGLE TO RETURN.

The student body will be glad to learn that Dr. Lingle and Dr. J. W. MacConnell will be back next year, after an absence of two years. They will resume their former work as Professors. Dr. Lingle will have charge of the French department, while Dr. MacConnell will have charge of the Biology department. At the same time, we regret that Dr. Clayberg and Dr. Gamond are to leave us. Although they have been with us only a year, they have become well-liked and popular on the campus.

Sept. 20............. Guilford. .......... . Winston-Salem, N.C.
Sept. 27 .........., Wake Forest................ Wake Forest, N. C.
Oct. 4 ........ Clemson. ........... Clemson, S. C.
Oct. 11 ........ Washington and Lee... Lexington, Va.
Oct. 18 ........ Univ. of S. C........ Columbia, S. C.
Oct. 25 ........ VMI........ Lexington, Va.
Nov. 1 ........ Ga. Tech..... Atlanta, Ga.
Nov. 8 ........ A. & E. of N.C... Raleigh, N. C.
Nov. 15 ........ Univ. of N.C. Winston-Salem, N. C.
Nov. 21 ........ Presbyterian College of S.C... Davidson, N. C.
Nov. 27 ........ Furman...... Greenville, S. C.

Page 8 Col 2

CONFERENCE JUNE 13-22