LITERARY NEWS

Phi Society Elects Officers for Next Term

The meeting of the Phi Society last Saturday night was given over to the election of officers for the coming term and marshals for the year. Devotional exercises were conducted by W. C. Neel. In the absence of the regular secretary, Sam Howie was appointed to act in his stead. After the roll call, the society proceeded with the election of officers. The following were elected to serve for the incoming term: L. G. Calhoun, president; C. G. Long, vice-president; D. W. Lowrance, secretary; Foscue, first critic; F. V. Long, second critic; F. D. McLeod, first supervisor; C. W. Robinson, second supervisor. Those selected for marshals were: D. M. Chalmers, chief; C. G. Long, L. G. Calhoun, G. D. Sample, and W. C. Neel. C. K. Brown and W. W. Roberts, having successfully completed their work in the Junior society, were officially received and welcomed into the Senior society. Reports from the various standing committees were read. Society was then adjourned to visit the Eus.

Daylight Saving Law Debated in Eu. Society

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting on Saturday night, November 1. The attendance was fairly good considering the weather. The meeting was called to order by the vice-president, as the president was absent, and Mahood was asked to act as vice-president. Mr. P. D. Miller was received into the society, after which the new officers were asked to take charge of the meeting. The president's inaugural address was postponed on account of the inclemency of the weather. The question to be debated was: “Resolved, That the daylight saving act should be discontinued in the U.S.” The affirmative side was argued by Sanders, Mitchell, and Matthews, C. J.; the negative by Gunn, Ormond, A. P., and Long. One member of the negative argued that the law should be repealed so that farmers and their teams would not be threatened with brain fever by working an extra hour at noon. The committee decided in favor of the affirmative. In view of the approaching contests, a majority of the members of the Phi Society thought it worthwhile to come over and witness the last part of the meeting. McAlpine then delivered a declamation, “The Pursuit of Happiness.” From the expression on his face, it is inferred that he has not yet overtaken it. After transacting some business of minor importance, the society was adjourned.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Junior-Senior Preliminaries Are Very Scantily Attended

Teams Chosen by Judges

The Eumenean Junior-Senior Debate was very scantily attended, with only a few persons present. Indeed, it was almost a case of “reductus ad absurdum.” There were three judges (there could be no less), five debaters (to give the judges some choice in picking the best four), one officer, and one “audience” for the speakers to address. As it was, they had to say, “Gentleman of the house.” The winners were Sullivan, Liston, and A. P. Ormond, with Mitchell as alternate. The judges were Drs. Grey and Shewmake and Professor Reed. In the Philanthropic Society, the winners were J. M. Dunlap, C. G. Long, and C. K. Brown. The contest was judged by Dr. Harding and Professors Woods and Douglas.

FELLOWS, LEARN THESE!

Davidson, O Davidson, you are the best old college in the East or West. You play a fair game, you play a square game, and you win in every test. And when that “Red and Black Machine” is out to fight and looking mean, then I am happy, as for you I sing:

Chorus:
O Davidson, we will down them, down them every one,
Come, Davidson, we will conquer ’ere the day is done,
Down (with Carolina) (with N. C. State then) (then with Clemson)
As through their lines we run,
Win for the honor of old Davidson.

Davidson, you are more than worth all the colleges on earth. You've got the stuff, men, and that’s enough, then, for you'll win in everything. You're next to none, and when I see you going on to victory, then I am happy, as for you I sing:

Chorus.

The Name of Old D.C. (Tune: U.S. Marine Song)

We've a line that has no equal, and the backfield can’t be beat. We've a pair of ends that know their job and they’re always on their feet. First a tackle play; a wide end run, then our distance down the field. We will fight, fight, fight for victory, and the name of old D. C. There's LaFar and Romefelt playing guards, Captain Spann now takes the ball, and when Black, our half-back, hits the line, there will be no line at all. First a forward pass to George or Pitts, and we'll fight, fight, fight for victory, and the name of old D. C. Just a spurt and they are free, and the name of old D. C. We're behind our team now, win or lose, we are out to play the game. Little Lacy breaks through every time; Whitney Johnston does the same. When the whistle blows, when the play has stopped, when the dust clears you shall see, that we've fought, fought, fought for victory, and the name of old D. C.

A HALLOWE'EN SURPRISE

Every fellow who is so fortunate as to board at Mrs. Brady’s was most pleasantly surprised by her Hallowe'en party last Friday evening. At first, the dining room was so dark that it seemed certain supper was not to be until 6:30, but as soon as all were ready, the doors were opened and those having as much courage as appetiteLed the way into that mysterious darkness, lighted only by fire-breathing ghosts and hissing snakes of flame. But soon the fearful gloom of an enchanted room gave way to such contagious good cheer that everybody was in harmony with those groaning tables so bewitchingly decorated. So here’s fifteen rahs for those ladies who understand how fellows feel away from home and know how to make them at home, three times each day.

The event was held last Thursday night with very nearly the “irreducible minimum” of attendance on account of his sister’s serious illness. Miss Virginia Henkel, of Statesville, was here Monday.

CAMPUSISMS.

D. M. Chalmers visited his home in Charlotte for several days the past week. W. M. Hall was called home Tuesday on account of his sister’s serious illness. Mr. and Mrs. D. W. McCullum, of Sumter, S.C., visited Mr. Hugh Bradley, '23, Wednesday evening.

LOCAL RED CROSS CHAPTER REORGANIZED

The student body was glad to see D. W. Spencer and H. E. Wyman return to the hill after several weeks of absence, during which time both have recovered from their accident. M. R. Doubles and J. M. Gaston visited Statesville this mid-week on a shopping trip. Guy Jones has returned to his home in Chattanooga with his sister, Miss Elizabeth Jones, who has been visiting here.

Dr. J. M. Douglas left with the team for Atlanta to see the Davidson-Tech game. Miss Sarah Lingle, daughter of Dr. T. W. Lingle, has returned after several days’ visit with her parents on the hill, to Winston-Salem, where she is attending Salem College. Dr. Richards returned to the campus Saturday, after being absent for several days. James T. Maddrey, '17, visited friends on the campus this week. “Highpocket” Streibich spent Sunday in the hospital, due to a sprained leg received in a basketball game.

Mrs. C. P. Brown, Mrs. C. F. Brown, Miss Annie Parker Brown, and Mr. Gallant, of Steele Creek, were visitors on the hill Saturday afternoon. H. Brady, of Statesville, was here on business this week. Mrs. Wearn, Miss Marjorie Wearn, Miss Frances Pitt, Miss Ruth Cannon, and Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Barringer, of Charlotte, were on the hill Monday.

Town News

Mrs. Brown, of Steele Creek, the mother of C. G. Brown, '21, and Mrs. Brown, the mother of Robert Brown, '23, visited their sons on Saturday. Miss Wallace, Davidson's sole Co-Ed, spent the weekend with Mrs. Douglas, while Dr. Douglas was in Atlanta with the team. Mr. and Mrs. Graham Gibson have moved from the Shaw house, on the Concord road, to their newly finished cottage on Academy Street. Mrs. Easley, of Virginia, who has been with Mrs. M. E. Manning for some weeks, will return to her home this week. She will be accompanied by Miss Louise Manning, of Washington, D.C., who has been spending her vacation at Davidson.

The Civic Club expects to have a Rummage Sale about December 1. Mr. Hager has kindly offered the use of his laundry room in the Sloan building. Mrs. Brady is chairman of this committee, and this insures its success. S. T. McCloy, '18, was on the hill Sunday. He gave a very enjoyable talk at the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon. “Ducky” enters Union Theological Seminary this week.

Rat That Didn't Smell After Being Dead for Three Months.

“I swear it was dead at least three months,” said James Sykes, Butcher, Westfield, N.J. “We saw this rat every day. Put a cake of RAT-SNAP behind a barrel. Months later my wife asked about the rat. Remembered the barrel, looked behind it. There was the rat—dead, not the slightest odor.” Three sizes. 25c, 50c, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware Co. and White Drug Co.

AMERICA is fast becoming a pipe-smoking nation, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, more and more men are smoking WDC Pipes. This is not by chance. It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process, makes pipes which are without peers in all the world. Coupled with that is a self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion pipes. And it has been accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

W. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES