It is a common sight nowadays to see a line of street cars standing still, “waiting for power.” The like is often seen in church life. Many churches are marking time, waiting for power. They need, above all things, a strong connection with the dynamo of God.—Methodist Protestant.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

GENTLEMEN
Send your next batch of films to CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Charlotte, N. C.
EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt. 7 Rumple

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents No. 30 and 26 Chambers

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

Devotional News - Dr. Price Addresses “Y” on “The Lure of the East”
The Bigness of the Job Makes It Attractive — China Coming Nation

The student body was fortunate enough to have the opportunity of hearing Dr. F. P. Price again Tuesday evening at the “Y” service. Dr. Price is one of the most prominent Christian workers in the Far East today. He holds the chair of Theology in the Theological Seminary at Nan Kiang. He is one of the best-informed men on the Chinese question and gave a very impressive talk on the conditions as they exist there today.

As the theme of his discussion, he chose “The Lure of the East.” By relating experiences, he showed that the East offered a call of adventure. Many people who go to China intending to stay only a year often become so interested in the work that they stay there a lifetime. Aside from opportunities for Christian service, China has many chances for business enterprise.

From another viewpoint, China has its drawbacks. To learn the language alone requires years of study on account of the many characters the alphabet contains. Dr. Price related a number of amusing incidents which Americans have had in attempting to talk to the natives. By going into China in any one of the many ways of Christian service, one does a great deal toward building up the character of the Chinese people. It means the reconstruction of a nation. The Chinese are not a backward people. Were China only given a chance, she would stand among the greatest nations. China looks to America alone for friendship. It is America’s duty to extend it. The East does not understand the West. By the power of God and under the shadow of the cross, the two may be bound together. It is a big job and it calls for big men. Finally, it demands the ambition to do big things and the willingness to make sacrifices.

Caldwell, Although Handicapped by Distance, Ranks Among the Best Sunday Schools

Every man interested in the Sunday School work of the Y. M. C. A. will say, if interviewed, that his school is the best. The six or eight fellows who go down to Caldwell are no exception to this, for they are very much interested and seem to be doing a fine work. For a number of years, this work has been carried on in the Caldwell school building. However, the fact that they have no building of their own is no hindrance to Davidson pep, as is clearly shown by the fellows who walk the eight miles down there every Sunday. Superintendent Cassel teaches a Men’s Bible class of about twenty members. The ladies also have a class in which Askew is doing a good work. The younger members of the school are divided into suitable classes under competent teachers from here. In fact, the whole work is carried on through the efforts of these men.

The outstanding feature of Caldwell Sunday School is its music. With the aid of a good organ, a number of good singers, and plenty of enthusiasm, the singing does credit to all concerned. Regardless of the handicaps of distance and location, it is only two miles from Huntersville, they have as their aim an attendance of 100. The present attendance is about seventy-five or eighty. In order to obtain this goal, a number of plans for arousing and maintaining interest have been devised. One of these is to have outside speakers to make talks or preach for them. According to the attendance records, this has not been done in vain, for the number on preaching Sundays is always large. Caldwell Sunday School is another example of the fine work being done by the Y. M. C. A.

MINISTERIAL AND VOLUNTEER BANDS HEAR TALK ON THE ORIENT.

A joint meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands was held Sunday afternoon. Dr. Price of China, one of the leading missionaries in the Southern Presbyterian Church, made an interesting talk to the large number of men present, on the subject, “The Open Door of the Orient.” Dr. Price made a talk of interest to everyone present by putting it in the light of being a privilege as well as a heroic work for a man to do God's work in these Eastern countries. The latter point he illustrated by showing the hardships and the handicaps under which missionaries work.| Missionaries labor in Korea because of the power which the Japanese officials have over this weaker country. Dr. Price furthermore showed the work waiting to be done in the great field of China, which for centuries has been closed to Americans and all foreigners, but which is open wide to receive the glad tidings of Salvation.

ANOTHER TREAT IN STORE FOR “Y.” MR. MILES TO ADDRESS MEETING NEXT SUNDAY.

Next Sunday the “Y” is to have Mr. Miles speak at the regular meeting. He is now at Union Seminary attending the Sprunt Lectures, delivered by Dr. Campbell Morgan. Mr. Miles will be back Friday night, and on Sunday evening he will speak. This talk is the third of a series on Student Life and Problems, given by Mr. Miles. It will be the same intimate, helpful, practical kind that he is accustomed to giving.

“Tim Pharr” Accepts Pastorate

Rev. J. W. Pharr, ’12, better known to Davidson students and alumni as “Tim,” has accepted the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Renick, W. Va. Mr. Pharr has spent several days on the campus this year, and while here has assisted with the football team. The wishes of the student body go with him as he now leaves to assume his duties as pastor. Announcement has been made of Mr. Pharr’s engagement to Miss Augusta Beatrice Thompson, of Charlotte, the wedding to take place on November 26.

LATEST DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN BEING MAILED OUT.

The new volume of the Davidson College Bulletin has recently been published and is now being distributed. The title of this issue is “Holding the Heights” or “A Plea for the Christian College.” It contains about 30 quotations from the leading men of the country testifying to the value of a college education and pleading for Christianity and education to go hand in hand. One interesting clipping concerning Davidson’s record:

Total enrollment from first year: 4,994
Total graduates: 1,449
Ministers: 654
Missionaries, foreign, on field: 25
Enrollment for current session: 435

DO YOU KNOW A THING OF REAL VALUE WHEN YOU SEE IT?—BIBLE CLASS WILL HELP YOU DECIDE.

For the past two weeks, the Bible classes have been studying about the Kingdom of God; its values and tasks. We have obtained a clearer view of Jesus’ teachings on this all-important theme and its relation to us right here on the campus. This next Sunday we continue the same subject dealing with the new standards set for the Kingdom. Practical Christianity is what we are striving after and this coming lesson deals with practical, everyday Christianity. Frequently, we think in a rut; take things as a matter of custom and really do not live according to our inner beliefs. Don’t fail to be on hand Sunday morning at 10 o’clock and help in the discussion of what actions are necessary in our daily lives to really make Christianity a vital principle with us here at Davidson.

George King, ’18, and George Crouch, ’18, were on the hill last weekend.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS, DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS

That you can buy at the DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and Fixtures.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.

WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business and will give you a square deal. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

KEEP FIT.

We furnish every essential for Football, Soccer, Basketball, Hockey, Skating and more. Agents Wanted where we are not Represented.

ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
Athletic Outfitters.
26 East 42d St.
New York City
Write for our new catalog.