THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the ALUMNI

Dr. Grey Enters Upon Twenty-Seventh Year of Service to Davidson College

Long Period of Teaching Has Been Marked by Great Success

William Richard Grey was born in Union County, North Carolina, in 1858. In 1880, he entered Davidson, graduating in 1884, having received the Latin medal in 1883 and the Greek medal in 1884. In 1885-86 he conducted the village academy in Davidson and from 1887 to 1889 was principal of various high schools in Georgia. In 1889, Dr. Grey entered Johns Hopkins University, winning an honorary scholarship in 1890. He received the Ph.D. degree from Johns Hopkins in 1893, and immediately after was elected professor of Latin and French at Davidson College.

At the end of the present year, Dr. Grey will have served as professor at Davidson for twenty-seven years. During this time he has become so interwoven with the life of the college that it is quite difficult to imagine the college without him. His scholarly learning, his facility in imparting knowledge in the classroom, and his good humor at all times have endeared him to the students, and have won for him the admiration of all who have been in his classes. Davidson students are not especially inclined toward the study of the classical languages, yet Dr. Grey has, to a marked extent, prevented his Latin classes from being the dry and inane hours of torture generally so peculiar to the study of Latin. As we look to the future, it is with the confident hope that for many years to come, Davidson College will still have the services of one of its most devoted alumni, Dr. W. R. Grey.

Major A. L. James, Ex-’06, Renders Distinguished Service to Country

Another Davidson alumnus has returned to this country with the mark of a gallant and distinguished soldier. His services were not only noted and rewarded by the United States Government, but have been recognized by foreign commanders and kings. Major A. L. James, ex-'06, is the highly praised soldier of whom the Dubuque (Iowa) Daily News said recently:

“Dubuque is being honored this summer by the visit of a gallant and distinguished soldier, one whose services in the great war were noticed by commanders and kings, one who was high in the councils of the American army. Major Alexander Long James, who is spending a leave of absence at ‘Four Mounds,’ the home of his father-in-law, Mr. George A. Burden, was chief of the Fourth division of the intelligence section of the general staff in France. ‘The Stars and Stripes,’ the official newspaper of the A. E. F., was published by his division. This paper reached a circulation of more than 500,000 copies. Major James was chief military censor of the A. E. F. and all the press, postal, telegraph and cable censorship was conducted under his direction. The propaganda conducted against the enemy was likewise one of the functions of his division. He also controlled sub-divisions which were charged with the entertainment and management of all visitors to the A. E. F., with securing and producing photographic and pictorial records of the war and with the necessary cooperation with the committee on public information and its work in Europe.

“Major James had been conspicuously honored, having received the order of officers of the crown from the king of the Belgians, the order of chevalier de la légion d'honneur from the French government and a citation from the American commander-in-chief, Gen. Jno. J. Pershing, for ‘especially conspicuous and meritorious services rendered.’

“Major James married Miss Viola Burden, of this city, some years ago. They have one daughter.”

M. A. Thompson at Harvard University

The Davidsonian is in receipt of a letter from M. A. Thompson, ex-’20, who is now at Harvard University taking a course in English under the Gov-ernment plan. Thompson left college in November of 1917 and enlisted in the Marines. After two months’ training at Paris Island, he went overseas, being among the first Americans to go across. He saw action at Chateau-Thierry and Belleau Woods, where he was seriously wounded on June 27. Thompson then returned to America and assisted in the Third Liberty Loan drive. Thompson has not completely recovered, as will be seen by his letter, but it is hoped that when he visits Davidson, which we trust will be very soon, he will be entirely well. His letter follows:

28 Conant Hall, Harvard College, Cambridge, 24 Sept. 1919.

To the Editors of The Davidsonian:

I want to say a word or two to Davidson. I am still a Davidson man; I like her for her spirit—something that she could not have if she were larger; and I like her for her ideals. Her ideals are the sort that leave their stamp. They are with you, and you don’t want to lose them. By coming to Harvard, I have been near a very noted nerve specialist who has not only operated upon my arm but has been prescribing treatment and looking after my arm all the while. Then, too, Harvard is a great college and has many unique and quite wonderful opportunities. My time here will mean a great deal to me, and whatever I get will mean just that much extra. But what I wanted Davidson to know most especially is this: It matters not how good other colleges are, there are none that will exactly take the place of Davidson; and I would have gone back there had it not been for treatment up here.

There is a probability of my having still another operation—possibly next summer, but I hope to go down to North Carolina again beforehand. If I do, I shall go by Davidson.

Yours sincerely,
SNOWBALL THOMPSON.

Knox Entire New Line of Shoes, Hats

PERSONAL

Mr. Yungfello, THIS IS “YOUR” CLOTHES SHOP. WE ARE new to Charlotte, but a chain of 25 stores in other cities enables us to furnish you with America’s finest clothes at worth-while savings. WE EARNESTLY REQUEST that you call and inspect our “COLLEGE CUT CLOTHES” at $30.00, $35.00, $40.00. “CHARLOTTE’S STYLE LEADERS” (egfar Clothes Shops STORES EVERYWHERE)

RAT-SNAP Absolutely prevents odors from carcass. Once package proves this. RAT-SNAP comes in cakes—no mixing with other food. Guaranteed. 25c size (1 cake) enough for Pantry, Kitchen or Cellar. 50c size (2 cakes) for Chicken House, coops, or small buildings. $1.00 size (5 cakes) enough for all farm and out-buildings, storage buildings, or factory building. Sold and Guaranteed by Mooney Hdw. and White Drug Store.

General Merchandise

Gents’ Furnishings

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Fountain Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you. White Drug Company The Rexall Store

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats. You will find our Stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear—the Best of Quality. Stetson Hats, Edwin Clapp Shoes, Manhattan Shirts. We hope to have the pleasure of serving you. Mail orders attended to promptly. MELLON’S 8, 10 WEST TRADE ST.

True Office Companions. Standard and National Desks. Taylor and Sykes Chairs. Art Metal Files and Light Weight Safes. Shaw-Walker Files and Filing Systems. “A Successful Looking Office is a Real Business Asset.” We have the equipment to make your office look successful. Queen City Printing Company 14 and 16 East Fourth Street, Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Drink PEPSI-COLA

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold