Vol. VI.

Juniors to Reveal Their Knowledge
War and Outlook of the Future are Main Topics.

The third-year men have at last decided on the subjects upon which they will display their oratorical ability week after
next. The topics, as can be seen from the following list, deal promiscuously with most of the weighty matters of
the world. The war and military questions seem to monopolize the interest of the orators; the economic, educational, and abstract
subjects have not been neglected by any means. The inhabitants of Davidson and the fair visitors will hear expounded such
momentous questions as “Have a Heart," “My Twenty Years at Davidson,” “The Great Triumvirate,” “Materialism vs. Spiritualism,” “The Almighty Dollar,”
“Launch Out Into the Deep,” “How I Won the War in the S. A. T. C.,” “Essentials of Happy Marriage,”
and, as usual, “Woman Suffrage.” If the speeches sound as profound as the titles, the Juniors will do themselves proud.
The following is a list of speakers and subjects:

Friday, 7:30 P.M.
1. Alexander, C. B., Charlotte, N. C.: Why Should U. S. Adopt Universal Military Training.
2. Askew, Samuel Horten, Atlanta, Ga.: Bolshevism.
3. Boney, Elwood Rantz, Kinston, N. C.: The Selective Draft.
4. Booker, Edward Nelson, Clayton, N. C.: Gas in Modern Warfare.
5. Brady, Samuel Rubert, Davidson, N. C.: General Pershing.
6. Brown, Harry Bernal, Little Rock, Ark.: The Price.
7. Caldwell, John Brown, Mt. Ulla, N. C.: League to Enforce Peace.
8. Calhoun, Lawrence G., Laurinburg, N. C.: The Triumph of Democracy Over Autocracy.
9. Cathey, Carl Horner, Davidson, N. C.: My Twenty Years at Davidson.
10. Chalmers, Dwight Moody, Charlotte, N. C.: Have a Heart.
11. Craig, Roy Rochester, Pendleton, S. C.: Universal Peace.
12. Foscue, Augustus L., Maysville, N. C.: A Look Into the Future.
13. Hall, William F., Jr., Statesville, N. C.: The Pennies.
14. Hamer, Hugh Cunningham, High Point, N. C.: The Great Triumvirate.

Saturday, 11:00 A.M.
15. Harrell, Wade H., Doerun, Ga.: English and American Relations.
16. Harris, Walter Page, Henderson, N. C.: The Work of the Tanks in the War.
17. Key, Frank Sims, Chester, S. C.: Materialism Versus Spiritualism.
18. Kornegay, Robert, Jr., Mt. Olive, N. C.: Agriculture in the U. S.
19. Liston, Robert T. L., Montevallo, Ala.: The Almighty Dollar.
20. McAlister, Lacy Little, Greensboro, N. C.: The Crisis.
21. McArn, Archibald Douglas, Laurinburg, N. C.: The College Education.

(Continued on page 6)

Three Games of Trip
Much Improvement, However, Shown By Team.

In each of the first three games of the Virginia invasion, the Davidson quint met defeat, with marked signs of
improvement in each successive contest. Davidson's lack of weight and experience were in evidence, though the team put up a
game fight in each game. With McAskill as the lone letterman back, the team selected from the class aggregations has
made as good a showing as could well be expected.

V.M.I. Game, Feb. 13.
Last Thursday night in Lexington, the faster and more experienced V. M. I. quint outclassed the Wildcats in a one-sided
game to the tune of 61 to 10. The Cadets staged a system of passing and teamwork that baffled the
Davidson boys completely. The playing of the home team was the most finished yet seen during the season in Lexington.
The visiting quint failed to do itself justice, as the score plainly points out, though it scrapped gamely throughout the
game. McAskill starred for Davidson, while Wills and Sullivan put up a splendid game for the Cadets. The V. M.
I. Scrubs were run in the second half. The line-up:

Davidson, Position, V.M.I.
Davenport.......RF.....Bunting
Harrington.......LF.....Wills
McAskill.........C......Schenck
Schenck..........RG.....Sullivan
Brice............LG.....Bacharach

Summary: Substitutes — Davidson: Chalmers for Schenck, Schenck for Brice, Hall for Davenport. V. M. I.: Thomas for Bacharach, Stewart
for Lee, Campbell for Bunting, Hawkins for Stewart, Shannon for Wills. Referee: Fain, Washington and Lee. Goals: Lee 3, Wills
11, Bunting 5, Sullivan 4, Bacharach 3, Thomas 2, Campbell 2, Hawkins 1, Harrington 2.

W. and L. Game, Feb. 15.
The game with the Generals was much better than the previous one with V. M. I. The score 28-6 in
favor of Washington and Lee does not give a correct indication of the strength of the two teams. The Wildcats
were rested and played a stronger game. The contest was fast, hard-fought, and free from personal fouls. The score for
the first half was 24-5, with Hines and McCain starring for the Generals. Harrington's knees gave him trouble in this
half, and Brice took his place in the second. In the second half, for nineteen minutes neither side scored a
field goal, which showed that our team came back with a real fight. Chalmers, Schenck, and Davenport were the leaders
for Davidson. Summary:

W. and L., Position, Davidson.
Harris..........RF.....Davenport
McCain..........LF.....Harrington
Hines...........C......McAskill
Fain............RG.....Chalmers
Bryant..........LG.....Schenck

Substitutions: W. and L.—Abragast for Hines, Buskirk for Harris. Davidson—Brice for Harrington, Hall for Brice. Field goals: McCain 4, Hines
3, Fain 3, Harrington 1, McAskill 1.

(Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 19, 1919.

Wildcats Drop First
Lieut.-Colonel Mueller Assigned to Davidson Expected to Arrive Soon. GovernmentRequests Measurements. Government authorities have informed Dr. Martin that Lieut. Col.
A. H. Meuller, of Camp Beauregard, has been transferred to the Davidson R. O. T. C. The Government also asked
that the measurements for uniforms be sent in. Lieutenant Meuller has already left Camp Beauregard and is on his way
here now, by way of New Orleans, and should arrive in a few days. The fellows who said there would
be no R. O. T. C. are agreeably disappointed; however, it will go hard on the men who were looking
forward to the R. O. T. C. as a “crip.” Soon the familiar sounds of “squads right,” “squads left,” etc.,
and even Bitzer’s bugle may be heard on the campus. But, “the worst is yet to come.” Rifles will have
to be cleaned up for inspection as before, but they will be U.S. rifles, and perhaps we will not get
“stuck” as often as in the S. A. T. C.

CURRIE AND WHITE WIN DECLAIMER'S MEDALS

“Pow! But I am glad that it is over.” This and other expressions of relief of like nature arose from
the six contestants in the Freshman-Sophomore Declamation contest held in Shearer Hall last Monday night, this being the occasion of
the literary struggle at which the honors were to be awarded as to who was the best declaimer in each
of the two literary societies. The contest was one of the best of this nature that has been held at
Davidson in a number of years, and although the audience was small, this did not prevent the speakers from giving
their best. All the contestants came well prepared and each acquitted himself with honor. Each selection was well handled, being
attractively given with plenty of life and action. There were plenty of thrills, but this applied to the speakers for
the most part.

The Philanthropic Society was represented by C. G. Long, “The Unknown Speaker;” D. W. Lowrance, “Lest We Forget;” and A.
L. Currie, “The Death of Lafayette,” all of whom displayed marked ability and were a credit to their society. Those
entering from the Eumenean Society were: W. P. Cummings, “The Spirit of America;” A. M. Mitchell, “The March of the
Flag;” and H. White, “Hamlet's Soliloquy on Death.” These men rendered their selections in an easy and attractive manner, showing
that in time they will develop into excellent speakers. After a short deliberation by the judges, whose opinion was that
the contest was remarkably close, the decision was returned that the winners were H. White, Eumenean, and A. L. Currie,
Philanthropic.

B. D. Heath, Jr., spent several days on the Hill last week on his way to New York.

Dr. C. F. Myers Arrives. Monday Accompanied By His Quartet. Good Results Are Expected.

Plans have been completed for the evangelistic meetings to be held next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights, to be conducted
by Dr. C. F. Myers, pastor of the First Church of Greensboro. Dr. Myers will be accompanied by Mrs. Myers,
and also by his quartet composed of two ladies and two gentlemen. The plan at present is to have a
meeting about an hour in length on each of the three evenings. The music will be excellent, and singing by
the boys will be emphasized. Hall prayer meetings every evening will be observed for the rest of this week, so
that the services may prove most effective. The promotion committee will also be put into operation, so that every man
on the Hill will be approached and the whole student body be present at the meetings. Dr. Myers is an
ideal young man’s preacher. Members of the student body who heard him on his two previous visits to the campus
were deeply impressed by his talks, and there will be no doubt that they will be present at the services
next week. And it will be safe to say that any other man who attends the first meeting will not
miss the other two. Dr. Myers’ attractive cheerfulness makes him well liked by all young people, and his pep and
earnestness win them every time.

MARSHALS TO WEAR REGALIAS

At recent meetings of the literary societies, marshals were elected for the year. Those elected from the Eu. Society were:
Emery Flinn, chief; B. A. Turner, H. B. Dendy, S. H. Askew, and C. B. Robson; from the Phi. Society:
T. C. Stone, B. L. McKeithen, O. P. Hart, and D. W. Roberts. At a joint meeting of the two
societies, it was decided that the marshals should wear the regular regalia as of former years and not be embarrassed
with any rose-bud imitation such as the marshals of last year had to wear.

SCHEDULE FOR WEEK FEBRUARY 19-26.

Wednesday—6:45 p.m.: Volunteer Band; 10 p.m.: Floor Prayer Meetings.
Thursday—"Y" Forum; 10 p.m.: Floor Prayer Meetings.
Friday—2:10: Bible Class Leaders; 6:45: Ministerial Band; 10 p.m.: Floor Prayer Meetings.
Saturday—6:45: Literary Societies; 8:00: Movies.
Sunday—10 a.m.: Bible Classes; 3:30 p.m.: Sunday School; 6:30 p.m.: "Y" Vesper Service.
Monday—7:00 p.m.: Dr. Myers Speaks.
Tuesday—7:00 p.m.: Dr. Myers Speaks.
Wednesday—7:00 p.m.: Dr. Myers Speaks.
