The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

Athletic News

First Scrimmage Held Friday; Team Rounding Into Form

Scrubs Are Giving Varsity Plenty of Hard Work - Several Promising Freshmen

With a squad of nearly fifty working out daily on Sprunt Field, Davidson football prospects are rising. For the past week, the candidates have been put through a most grueling pace, but the practice is having its results clearly demonstrated. The men are getting “hard” and have gotten that old D. C. fighting spirit back in every play.

During the first of the week, practice consisted of blocking, hitting the dummies, and signal practice. Scrimmage began Friday. Picking up a fumble, Martin, scrub full-back, ran twenty yards for the first touchdown, and it was kicked. A good scrub team means a good Varsity team. The Varsity evidently realized the fact and proceeded to score on the scrubs in eight minutes of play, after Cassel, playing quarter in place of Spann, who was out on minor injuries, ran back the kick-off 90 yards. “Red” Miley carried the ball over on a forward-pass play.

Of course, the Varsity eleven has not been picked yet, but the following men have been playing more or less regularly on Coach Pete's Wildcat selection: Miley and Douglas, ends; Hammit and McMaster, tackles; La Far and Romefelt, guards; Brady, center; Black and McAlister, halfbacks; Nimocks, fullback; and Spann, quarterback.

Those everlastingly scrappy scrubs have been lining up as follows: Harris and Black, ends; Currie and Carter, tackles; Hamer and Fairy, guards; Long, center; McFaden and Shephard, halfbacks; Martin, fullback; and Cassel, quarterback.

Besides the regular applied laboratory three hours each afternoon, the squad is being instructed in blackboard talks several evenings a week. Coach Crayton is surely making the fellows play, eat, and sleep football, and it’s “Watch Out Guilford” when they buck up against the Red and Black on Saturday in Winston-Salem.

The basketballs have arrived, and the fellows are enjoying the privileges of the “gym” floor these afternoons. Come on out, Fresh, it’s free, and you'll learn to like a lot more fellows if you mix in and rub backs with them.

The tennis court is being used each day to its capacity, four men at a time. “A” court has a ditch through it, and so far no work on the other courts has begun, but it is hoped that soon there will be room for everyone all the time. Here’s hoping the courts get some of Davidson's quota from the Million Dollar Campaign.

ENGLISH V TO BE BENEFICIAL COURSE

This course is given for students who have a special aptitude for composition, with a view to improving their talents and making them fit for writing essays, short stories, and other such writings for publication. The plan of the course is not exactly made out yet, but the aim is to let each student follow his natural bent; that is, those who are primarily interested in the writing of essays will work especially towards the goal of becoming proficient in writing essays that interest and uplift the readers. They will go back and read selections from the old English essayists for their foundation and study different ones down to the modern writer.

The short story writer, on the other hand, will study with a view to making himself able to write stories that will interest those who like first-class short stories, by studying some of the best modern stories. These writings will be criticized mercilessly, as Professor Shewmake made it clear, both by outside writers and the writers of the class. The course will require a very great amount of work, but anything that is worthwhile must be paid for with a great price, and the cost should be lost in the enthusiasm, because the course has the brightest future for those “who will put their shoulder to the wheel” of any in college.

Football Gleanings

Live News About Our Opponents

As other colleges are opening up, we find that we are not the only one that has bright football prospects for the coming season. Every report which we receive carries additional evidence that we are facing the greatest football season in the history of the sport. The teams which we hit this year are among those looking for the old men from the army and their new recruits to build up a winning machine.

Practice has already begun at A. & E. with more than a full team of former stars returned. Last year's backfield is intact, consisting of Gurley, Murray, Hudson, and Faucette. Among the large number out for line positions are Texey, center; Whitaker, Powell, Stacy, Weathers, Lawrence, and Ripple. The last named was chosen as tackle on one of Walter Camp's all-American teams of last year. On end, McMurray and Black are now considered the pick for the varsity, though they are hard pushed by the large number out for this position. They are placing great confidence in Coach Fetzer and are expecting the best team they have had in a number of years. The first game which they play is against Guilford on September 27. This game will help to give a fine idea of how we will stack up against them on November 8.

Although the University of North Carolina does not begin its collegiate year until September 30, Coach Campbell has already begun to assemble his squad. They are enthusiastic.over the return of such former stars as Brown, Nichols, Kernodle, Pharr, Lowe, Fearrington, and others. On October 4 they are scheduled to play Rutgers at New Brunswick, N.J., and on the following Saturday Yale at New Haven. The annual Virginia-Carolina game, which has always been played at Richmond, will be transferred to Chapel Hill to give the Carolina students a chance to see one big game without so much additional expense. A big feature of the season will be the A. & M.-Carolina game. These ancient rivals severed relations several years ago and this game therefore is looked forward to by both sides as one of the big scraps of the season. The Georgia Tech team is being fast assembled. The “Golden Tornado” will put out an unusually strong team but will greatly miss the work of such wizards as Strupper, Guyon, and Hill. They have, however, an abundance of material, including such stars as Fincher, Staton, Dayal, Flowers, Adams, Davis, Phillips, and many others who in former years made such a sensational showing. The University of Tennessee has been given a new $75,000 athletic field. From the present outlook, it seems probable that they are developing a team equal to the championship eleven which they put out several years ago. The University of Alabama has been fortunate in securing Xen C. Scott for coach. It will be remembered that said Scott is the man who was running the Cleveland Naval Reserves when they stopped the famous Pittsburgh machine.

CHOICE OF READING.
(Continued from page 1)
One has only to glance at the life of Mr. Page to see how genuinely Southern he is. He was born on the Oakland plantation in Virginia and was educated at Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia. Since then many universities have honored him and he has become a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. President Wilson appointed him Ambassador to Italy in 1913, a position which he has held until this year, when he asked to be relieved. Mr. Page is master of two fields of literature, the dialect poem and the novel. To the lover of short stories perhaps the “Burial of the Guns” is the most appealing, and to those fond of longer books, “Red Rock” holds much of interest. His poems portray the life of the negro in the South as only the works of a student and one who has had the original as a model could do. With such artistic taste and skill, with all the humor, force, and pathos of the old Virginia “quality,” Thomas Nelson Page has been rightly called the “brightest star in Southern Literature.” Instead of reading the nondescript novel, why not store our minds with something of use and instruction as well as interest? When in the library next time, look over the works of Thomas Nelson Page.

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

The Hartts Presents “Love in the Southland”

Mullen & Correlli In Humble Nonsense

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

This double-breasted model is rather extreme, becoming only to certain young men, but there is a number of men in that class in this burg—upstanding and up and going, with pep and personality—the type that gets there. Will have a man on the hill next week with a complete line of suits, etc.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. LARZELERE, Prop.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me. Next to Pressing Club

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements Phone 85

FELLOWS
I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South.
E. N. BOOKER
18 Watts