6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

First Issue of Magazine to Be Out Nov. 1st.

LITERARY NEWS

A Faithful Worker of the College Gives Sound Advice
Much Credit Due Professor Shewmake for His Valuable Assistance

Society.

Subject for Debate: Saturday Night, Oct. 25:
Resolved, “That Immigration in the U. S. should be prohibited for the next five years.”
Affirmative: Keith, J. M. Neel, G. N.
Negative: McGeachy, D. P. Poole, R. H. Smith, W. C. Smith, F. W.
Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, October 27, 28 and 29
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
HOMER ROMAINE—Aerial Eccentricities.
AVEY & O’NEIL—Dennie “The Young Uns.”
ALMONT & DUMONT—Mlle. Novelty, Instrumental, Singing and Comedy Talking, Introducing Mr. Almont’s inventions, the Septiphone and Ebony Vox Humana Trumpet.
ZELLA NEVADA—A Revue of Song embellished with most gorgeous gowns.
C. A. DEAN and SORORITY GIRLS in Frolics and Fun.

The Davidsonian:
Dear Fellows:
Believing it is the right thing to do all one can for the good of the college, I want to write you a short open letter, with the hope that it may help you to more fully appreciate the “old college” you are going to.

This summer while knocking about, I met one of the professor’s wives whom I had known while at D.C. In asking her about the college and the friends, this question came to me and I asked her, “Do the Seniors ever grab a Fresh and say, Let’s go over to see ‘Jerry’ or ‘Dandy’ Sunday night?” Her reply was that it had become almost an unusual occurrence instead of being the regular thing as it was in the past few years. This lady, who has known scores of men and who has always opened her home to all the fellows, said she and her husband regretted it more than she could say.

I mention this because while out in a big university in the central west, I had an opportunity to see that the men did not visit the faculty there. I spoke to the Dean of men, a truly wonderful fellow, about this, telling him of what we did at Davidson. He said to me, “Captain, I would give anything in my power to have just what you say you have there at Davidson.” He added that after teaching in the summer school at Cornell, he and his wife decided to try the same plan that he found at Cornell, that of keeping “open house” to the men on Sunday nights. His experience proved a terrible disappointment to him, as only about half a dozen men ever called.

Why visit the faculty? It gives the fellows a chance to see the faculty and know that while they may “ride” you unmercifully when called before them, they are really interested in you and your welfare. It gives the faculty a chance to know you better and to understand you. It makes the college a better place to live in and a better place to work in. It makes the college a better place to live in and a better place to work in. It makes the college a better place to live in and a better place to work in.

Our first issue of the Magazine should be the best Davidson ever put out. It will contain three short stories, two essays, two book reviews (on “The Shadow of the Cathedral,” by Ibanez, and “The Wicked Marquis,” by E. Philip Oppenheimer), and a number of poems, editorials, cartoons and exchanges. Matthews has written a page of “Financial Philosophy” as a foreword to the ads. There will also be a humorous department, which will be run every month under the title “The Sling.” It will contain humorous poetry, jokes, squibs and cartoons.

Dr. Shewmake is heartily supporting the Magazine, and has offered to excuse the contributors from preparing part of their English work. He and Dr. Richards have both promised to devote one day of class to a criticism of the literary qualities of the Magazine.

The last bit of copy went to press on the 18th, so the first issue ought to be out by the 1st of November. The staff plans to get out one more number this fall and four next spring. With such efficient management, this year’s Magazine ought to be the best in the history of Davidson.

Final Summary of Cotton Picking

Senior Class Leads With Best Average—W. C. Neel Carries Off Individual Honors

Cotton Picking Summary.
At the end of the rainbow there's a pot of gold, ‘tis said. And at the end of our cotton picking the cost of our band has been practically provided for. Three hundred and thirty-nine students “bent to it” and achieved great results. Totals as follows:
Freshmen—Number men picking, 152; amount picked, 9,500 pounds; average per man, 62.5 pounds.
Sophomores—Number men picking, 94; amount picked, 5,985 pounds; average per man, 63.67 pounds.
Juniors—Number men picking, 49; amount picked, 3,429 pounds; average per man, 69.98 pounds.

The Plumb Plan of operating the railroads was the subject under discussion in the debate. Clarke and McCain made no departure from the usual method of presenting the affirmative side of the question. However, Spence, the third man on the affirmative, came upon the floor like a storm out of a clear sky and sounded “the death knell of private ownership of railroads.” Fricker got off on a good start for the negative but became amused at his own combination of big words and thereafter practically every sentence was punctuated with a laugh.S€r man, 69.98 pounds, punctuated with a laugh. Seniors—Number men picking, 44; Wool and Gaston filled in for the amount picked, 3,667 pounds; average per man, 83.34 pounds. Highest scores: Seniors—W. C. Neal, 212 pounds. Juniors—M. P. Baba, 126 pounds. Sophomores—G. N. Neal, 200 pounds.

Secretary Lacy gave a declamation “The Navy in Peace and War,” by W. S. Sly, but seemed to emphasize jungles and frozen regions more than the navy. The entire student body thanks the White and Jetton Drug Stores for soda tickets for those making the highest scores; also the ladies of the faculty, Davidson Cafe, Mr. Elliott, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Long, and others, for refreshments for the cotton pickers.

The total amount received to date for the band is $211.40. To this will be added some further collections, fines, and miscellaneous contributions, and the sum will probably total $400.

STRIKE IS ON. There's a strike in the kitchen and the meat won't eat, the butter won't butt, the doors won’t shut, the squashes won’t squawk, the “murphies” won't talk, the molasses won’t stretch, the ketchup won't ketch, the steps won't step, the pepper won't pep, and I'm having a jell of a time generally. —Housewife.

The question of adopting simpler means of spelling was the subject for extemporaneous debate. Poteat, for the affirmative, pointed to the errors in spelling as the crying need for simpler methods. G. Lovig, for the negative, maintained that simplified spelling detracts from the dignity of the language. The committee rendered a decision in favor of the affirmative in both debates.

If you fellows are hesitant, go call on Miss Shaw, and I am sure you will be happy to have followed the suggestion. Don’t let any fellow “kid” you out of going by telling you only “boot-leggers” pull such stunts. I never knew a teacher in my life who couldn't spot a “boot-legger” and their contempt for this class is beyond words. If you fellows do gain the lasting friendship of these true gentlemen, you will in later years find a mighty bright page of happy recollections of your college days. Of course, we have our likes and dislikes, but I will say that for a group of men, I have never found a finer, truer, more loyal set than the faculty of Davidson College.

As an “old Grad” I want to take off my hat to “The Greater Davidson Club.” Everywhere I went this summer I heard of “you” and “Jackson.” You fellows have put it over in true Davidson style. We have long been far too modest about the qualifications of our “old college.” We must tell the other fellow, that he may know and want to come to a real man’s college. Talk Davidson everywhere you go. Don't overlook the youngsters—they will soon be college material. My best luck to the team and to Coach Crayton. I know you will both make good. Ever since I heard Coach Fetzer was to leave, I've been hoping you would take “Pete.” He is a man.

Program Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, October 30, 31, and November 1:
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
PATHE NEWS—BRIGGS CARTOON.
CHARLES HENRY’S PETS Presenting “A Canine’s Dream.”
WILKENS & WILKENS—“The Tango Lesson.”
TOM DAVIES AND COMPANY in a timely domestic skit “Checkmated.”
LA ZAR & DALE Presenting an Ethiopian Travesty entitled “JOINING THE UNION.”
BLACK AND WHITE in Their Novelty Diversion.

Nationally Known in No Time, Bevo has become the best friend of food and fellowship. Drink it for its purity and deliciously appetizing flavor.

We are expecting Davidson to carry herself through the season true to her tradition. We are with you hand and heart.

Saturday night, Oct. 25.
Member Class of 1907.

Debate:
Affirmative: Drake McLaughlin, Ormand, A. C. McIlwaine.
Negative: Price, J. K. Brittenheit.

Extemp.: Bitzer, Mahood.
Orations: Phillips, Richards, J. G. Martin.

Declamation: Jones, C. R. Lewis, King, E. A.

VOLUNTEER BAND NOW STUDYING LIVES OF GREAT MISSIONARIES.
The Volunteers are now studying the lives of a number of famous missionaries, such as Livingstone, Moffatt, Paton, Mackay, Pitken, Lapsley, and others. The plan is that each man will read a biography and discuss it at the meeting, comparing and contrasting it with the others. At the last meeting, the early lives of the missionaries were discussed. Next Sunday, the band will consider how the various missionaries received their calls and prepared themselves for their work. This should prove a very interesting meeting, especially to those who have not quite decided whether or not they are called to the foreign field. It is hoped that as many as possibly can will come out and hear the discussion.

He had an invariable way of asking the wrong question or making the wrong comment. So it was, when at the dinner party his neighbor, a lady, said to him: “I am a thorough believer, you know, Mr. Smith, that men’s clothes should match their hair; a black-haired man should wear black clothes, a brown-haired man should wear brown clothes. Don’t you think so?” “That may be,” bungled Jones, “but suppose a man is bald?”—Ex.

Visitors are cordially invited to inspect our plant.