THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 15, 1919

Wildcats Welcomed With Wonderful Reception
Team Returns from W. and L. Game—Greeted by Assembled Supporters

Where There’s a Baby on Farm Keep RAT-SNAP. Rats are on most farms. Once they get inside the house—look out. Rats kill infants—biting them is not unusual. Nursing bottles attract rats. Break a cake of RAT-SNAP and throw it around. It will surely rid you of rats and mice. Three sizes, 25c, 50c, $1.00, Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware Co. and White Drug Co.

The student body is with the football team. The squad, on its arrival Monday night from the Washington and Lee game, was greeted on Main street by the majority of the students. The players were figuratively, and their baggage literally, dragged from the jitney when it swung in at 12:50 a.m. All college men claim that they are behind their eleven. Davidson men have clearly demonstrated that they are with their Wildcats.

The students were turned out at 12 by the college bell and a pair of Freshman buglers. A bonfire was produced in front of Skit's old place by a delegation of Freshmen. Impromptu entertainment was furnished by several members of the class of '23 who rather involuntarily volunteered their services. A faithful drizzle of rain lent tone to the occasion. At 12:40 the jitney came in. At 20 minutes till one there was such a demonstration as seldom disturbs Davidson. Two yells were given: one for the coach; the other for the team. Several near-fights arose among the Freshmen as to who was to have the privilege of accompanying the suitcases up.

Pep was present. That Red and Black spirit was all-pervadingly present. It was the same spirit that has given Davidson teams a name for fighting fair to the finish excelled by none. It was the spirit that enabled the Davidson gridironers of old to hand down to the present team a record of a glorious past. It was the spirit that permitted the team of '17 to carve their way to glory by crushing Auburn in that historic struggle. It was the spirit that is making the team today fight to the last whistle sounds. Above all, it was the spirit that will be carried to Charlotte on the 8th of November to show the State College how football is played in the lair of the Wildcats and to send the supporters of the Red and White back to their native city with a desire to know How Davidson Did It.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

There is as much in learning to learn as in what you learn.

PLAY TENNIS
If you will not be a rooter, join the band and be a tooter. Spalding Tennis Equipment: Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Fall equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY
Professor: “Mr. Hodgin, you guessed wrong again.”

Corp. Hughes ascertains the safeness of a Yale lock. Having lost his key he required the services of some half dozen to re-enter his room.

“Does anyone else remember any famous hymns?”
Special English Student: “What about ‘Drink to me only with thy eyes, Doctor?’”

Attention, College Boys!
A new line of Stetson, No-Name, Vanity and Belk Hats at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00 and $7.00. College boys’ skirt model suits, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50. New Neckwear at 50c, $1.00 and $1.50. Silk Half-Hose in all colors at 59c, 85c and 90c.
Belk Brothers

New news. Fannie Hall

Shoe Repairing
For neatness and durability send your shoes to the Shu Fixery, Charlotte

The Alabama Club has announced, through Big Brice, that a feed will be held.

GIGANTIC GEYSER GETS TO GOING GOOD IN GREATER

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient torailroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

The next meeting will be Monday. Everybody looks pleased when he sees what Fashion has done for him this Fall. There’s no limit—everything you fancy in the cut or style, color or decoration of your suits is all right. We have some decided innovations you'll like to look at, and to wear. Fall overcoats, too, with style of their own that you can own for $25.

34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Announcement...

We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors.

Save Money when you refinish furniture and woodwork yourself with Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC. No matter how badly scratched your doors, floors, or furniture, you can easily restore them with one coat of Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC. The cost is small, the results are great. It comes in all sizes, from 15c up. Made in 20 Natural and Enamel Colors. White, Gold, and Silver.

PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., Inc.
Louisville, Ky.
R. S. JOHNSTON & CO., Representatives

DAVIDSON, N. C.

A new attraction appeared in Davidson last Monday in the form of a “natural geyser.” About 2:30 p.m. a small stream of water began to bubble forth from the street in front of Shearer Hall. As a crowd gathered to witness this event, the water increased its strength. At first, the water only reached a column of about three feet in height. Then, wishing a bird’s eye view of the prosperous city, it suddenly rose to the height of about 25 or 30 feet, wetting the innocent bystanders. The crowd stood back, looking on with awe at the beauty and splendor of Davidson's “Old Faithful.” Several kids of the town, forgetting that it was Monday, took a shower beneath its cooling waters. Their attempts to sit on the stream caused much amusement to the onlookers. Just as the prospects of a “Davidson Natural Park” seemed brightest, the water fell, leaving the crowd staring at a large hole. Upon investigation of this phenomenon, it proved to be a break in the water pipe running under Main Street.

Now we understand why D. R. Freeman persists in sticking to his wristwatch. He is enabled to “tell the time” by a glance, thus eliminating the pulling out of the old-style watch and incidentally pulling away whatever pull a fellow might have with a professor.

Forty-two Seniors now realize why farmers want higher prices for their cotton.

“Don't be a pusher,” says an exchange. They must not have many exits from chapel either.

McIlwaine claims the Davidsonian did Watts an injustice in the write-up of the water fight. Lectures on justice from hot water pourers are always appreciated.

We wonder why a man who is to lecture on punctuality always comes to the meeting late?

We recommend that the Campusisms man be provided with the following rubber stamp: Bugs Robinson spent the weekend at home.

The Peanut Parcher lays claim to the virtue of originality, even in its spelling.

Nigger, you are afraid of work, aren’t you?
Nigger: Naw, sah, Boss, I ain't 'fraid of no work; I can lay down right side o' work and go to sleep.—Orange and Blue.

Gerald—“You girls are always quarreling. What was the bone of contention this time?”
Geraldine—“We were arguing about your head.” —Exchange.

AESCULAPIAN CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS.

The Doctors-To-Be met Monday morning and elected officers for the year as follows: C. M. McAskill, president; G. D. Sample, vice-president; and E. N. Booker, secretary and treasurer. After the election of officers, the club had a short business meeting. It was decided to have meetings every two weeks. At each meeting, some member will read a prepared article on some medical subject. From time to time, the club will have some physician or specialist give them a talk and advice as to their course, etc. A committee was named to get up the program for the next meeting. All men present voted to stand behind the president and make the Aesculapian Club a success.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643