DR. J. M. DOUGLAS GIVES INTERESTING TALK

At the “Y” vesper service Sunday evening, Dr. J. M. Douglas made a very interesting and instructive talk on “The Greatness of God.” The meditative praise of God as shown in Psalm 19 was explained in terms of modern inventions and discoveries. “The question as to whether there is a God has been brought up many times, but the fact that the first few chapters of Genesis have never been accepted by the world as false shows that there is a God,” said Dr. Douglas. Modern science and invention were brought to bear on the greatness of God in creating the universe. As the universe is infinite, so is the greatness of God. Another striking illustration of the greatness of God was made, showing God's greatness in small things as well as in large. The electron was used to show this. “The works of God are all perfect,” continued Dr. Douglas, “in the smallest as well as the largest of His creations.” In closing, he said, “Thus realizing the greatness of God, His name should be mentioned only in reverence, and to praise and glorify Him.”

At the close of the meeting, it was announced that the annual election of officers of the Y. M. C. A. would be held next Sunday night at the regular meeting.

MR. R. W. SHELTON

The friends and acquaintances of Mr. R. W. Shelton were greatly shocked to hear of his sudden death on last Wednesday evening. Mr. Shelton has for many years been one of the most prominent citizens of Davidson. In him, the town loses one of her best and most respected citizens. At the time of his death, he was on a business trip to Wadesboro, N.C. He was taken sick in the National Hotel of that town and died within thirty minutes. He was in his 62nd year and had been in poor health for the past few months. The remains were brought home on Thursday afternoon. At 10:30 Friday morning, Dr. Richards conducted the funeral service at the home. A large number of friends and relatives were present. Mr. Shelton leaves a widow and six children.

LIBRARY NEWS

The following books recently received at the Library will be of value to the men studying current history: “The British Empire and the United States” by Denning; “The Lost Fruits of Waterloo” by Bassett; “Nationality and the War” by Toynbee; “A Reconstruction Policy”; “What Is Wrong With Germany” by Dawson; “From Isolation to Leadership” by Latane; “The English-Speaking Peoples” by Beer; and “The Disclosures From Germany.”

WHAT ARE YOU WORTH?

From your chin down, you are worth a dollar and a half a day. From the chin up, you are worth—anything. There's no limit. Without your headpiece, you are just an animal, and about as valuable as a horse—maybe. You have a mistaken idea. You think you are paid for your work. You are not. You are paid for what you think while you work. It’s the kind of brain that directs your hands that gives you rating.

Where do you get your pleasures? From the chin down? Is it all dancing for your feet, and meat for your stomach, and...clothes for your back? And—is all your fun in the cellar? Don’t you ever have any fun in the attic? . . —Ex. The DAVIDSONIAN. March 12, 1919

TOWN HAPPENINGS.

Miss Orrie Steele and Miss Charlotte Cranford went to Charlotte last Saturday to hear Harry Lauder.

Harry Elliot, who is stationed at Camp Sevier, was in town during the speaking on a two-day furlough.

The Woman's Missionary Society held its monthly meeting Thursday in the church.

Mrs. W. J. Martin was called to New York last week to be with her son, Malcolm Rumple, who is in a hospital there.

Miss Brew, who has been with Mrs. Wallace in the millinery business here, has returned from Philadelphia for the spring months.

Mr. Robert Miles preached in Mooresville last Sunday.

THE WAY TO WIN.

If you think you are beaten, you are;
If you think you dare not, you don't,
If you'd like to win but think you can't
It’s almost a cinch you won't.
If you think you'll lose, you're lost,
For out of the world we find
Success begins with a fellow’s will—
It’s all in the state of mind.
If you think you're outclassed, you are;
You've got to think high to rise.
You've got to be sure of yourself before
You can ever win a prize.
Life's battles don’t always go
To the stronger or faster man:
But soon or late the man who wins
Is the one who thinks he can.
—S. M. McGill.

COLLEGE DEFINITIONS.

Condition—A scholarly attainment.
Cut—A stolen pleasure.
Faculty—An unnecessary evil.
Freshie—An innocent child.
Soph—A worldly wise sage.
Junior—A plaything of the faculty.
Senior—A real wise guy.
Flunk—The result of hard luck.
Exam.—A relic of the Spanish Inquisition.
Lecture—A total loss of time.
Holiday—A brief respite.
Vacation—The shortest period in the year.
Report—A thing to be explained.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time?
Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done.
Let us convince you
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
(Phone 643) CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery and Gifts In North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., Mail Orders a Specialty
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT
Uniforms, Caps, Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Balls, Gloves, Masks, Etc.
Catalogue on request
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & Co., Inc. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier