= 01.6, THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 27, 1919.

Wildcats Ready to Give Furman Hard Fight
Hornets Have Great Team, But Presbyterians Will Be in the Scrap

Davidson will wind her football season up Thanksgiving in Greenville, S. C., where her opponent will be Furman. The Wildcats have a hard nut to crack in these plucky warriors and it is a toss-up as to who will come out on top. Furman has played brilliant ball this year and for its size is one of the best teams in the South. There are not over 150 men from which to pick a gridiron squad, and yet this school tackles all comers. As far as Davidson is concerned the following results are food for thought: Furman whipped Wake Forest 39 to 6. Davidson licked the Baptists 21 to 0. This would indicate a slight advantage for Furman. Again, Furman won from P. C. by one touchdown, while the latter held Davidson to a scoreless tie. It must be taken into consideration, however, that Johnson and Black were out of the Davidson-P. C. game. Also, Clemson, easily outplayed, was fortunate in securing a 7 to 7 tie with Furman. The Tigers whipped Davidson though 7 to 0. The dope would indicate a slight advantage in favor of Furman, but Red and Black backers can console themselves with the fact that the dope has been turned inside out this year.

The line-up will probably be:
Furman. Position. Davidson.
Bradley Davis Left End
Jeter Hammett Left Tackle
Cox Romefelt Left Guard
Boyd Brady Center
Buyck LaFar Right Guard
Watson McMaster Right Tackle
McLeod Douglas Right End
Todd Spann Quarter
Speer Johnson Left Half
Rhame Black Right Half
McManaway McAlister Fullback

R. O. T. C. Inspector Pleased With Battalion’s Showing
Impromptu Parade Held Last Thursday Afternoon—Gave Creditable Exhibition

Maj. C. H. Daniels, District Inspector, passed through Davidson last Thursday. When he arrived, however, the regular drill for the day was over, and he seemed willing to wait until his next visit before seeing the battalion at work. But, Colonel Mueller was not content to let matters rest thus; he was anxious for Major Daniels to see the progress his unit had made. So a battalion parade was held at 2:30 o'clock. In spite of the fact that many of the officers and non-commissioned officers were absent for football practice, the parade went through smoothly. The band was at its best and the whole ceremony was impressive. After the parade, the companies were drawn up before the armory for a few minutes, and the inspector gave a short talk. He said that he had enjoyed the parade very much, and was very agreeably (Continued on page 5)

EXAM. SCHEDULE FOR FALL TERM 1919-20.
Seniors | Juniors | Soph.
Tues. Math Math. Math. Math. Applied Math Biology Law
Wed. History Biology History
Thurs. Chemistry Church History Bible English Education Applied Math.
Friday French Public Speaking Greek German Chemistry
Sat. Economics Philosophy English Chemistry
Mon., 15th. Accounting and Geology Latin Latin
Tues., 16th. Business Math. Philosophy Spanish
Wed. Greek Greek Physics Physics
Thurs., 18th. Greek-English Chemistry Bible English
Friday, 19th. Astronomy French German

Formal Opening of Speaking Friday Afternoon
Will Be Four Groups of Twelve Speakers Each—Program Given Below

The speeches of the Seniors will be divided into four groups of 12 each this year, one group speaking Friday afternoon at 3, one at 8 p.m., and the other two on Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. After the program on Friday night, Marguerite Clark will appear in “The Goose Girl.” Saturday at 4:30 the Juniors and Sophs meet in the last game of the class basketball series, which will either tie them for the championship, making another game necessary, or give it to the Sophs. At 8 p.m. the Glee club will present a program, and during the intermission football “D’s” will be awarded. Immediately after the concert, the Fraternity reception will begin. The Y. M. C. A. has planned a vesper service for 6:30 Sunday afternoon, with special music. Church services are to be at the regular hours. The following is the calendar:
Friday, 3 p.m.—Speaking.
8 p.m.—Speaking.
9:30 p.m.—Movies, Marguerite Clark in “The Goose Girl.”
Saturday, 11 a.m.—Speaking.
2:30 p.m.—Speaking.
4:30 p.m.—Basketball game, Juniors vs. Sophs.
8 p.m.—Glee Club concert. Awarding of “D’s.”
10 p.m.—Reception.
Sunday, 11 a.m.—Morning service.
6:30 p.m.—Vesper service in Shearer chapel.
7:30 p.m.—Evening service.

GENERAL EDUCATION BOARD REPRESENTATIVE VISITS CAMPUS
Dr. E. C. Sage, field representative of the General Education Board of the United States, was a visitor to the college last week. Dr. Sage inspected the various departments of the college and seemed to be favorably impressed with all.

Debating Cup Won by Eumenean Society
Phi Suffers Defeat for First Time in Five Years—Ormand and Dunlap Receive Medals

For the first time in five years, the Junior-Senior debating cup passed over into the hands of the Eumeneans as the result of their triumph over the Philanthropic debaters last Thursday night. The medals were awarded to A. P. Ormond, Eu., and M. Dunlap, Phi., both of the Junior class. The largest audience for several years past was present at the debate, all of whom found their time well spent. The debaters had worked hard, and consequently the speeches showed thorough research and careful preparation. The subject of the debate was, “Resolved, That Immigration shall be prohibited for five years.” The Phi debaters, who upheld the affirmative side, were C. G. Long, C. K. Brown, and J. M. Dunlap. The Eu debaters were A. M. Mitchell, A. P. Ormond, and R. T. L. Liston. C. G. Long, the first speaker for the affirmative, stated the following as the points which the affirmative would endeavor to maintain: That immigration is not economically beneficial; that it is not socially uplifting, it is not politically wise, and the prohibition of immigration forFive years is the proper step to take in dealing with the problem. Long reserved the first point for himself and divided his argument into two parts: immigration has not been beneficial in the past, and is not beneficial at the present. The immigrants who have come are illiterate, ignorant, and unskilled in labor. They come here for selfish purposes; they are no longer refugees from a tyrannical rule. Immigrants come here to make money. By sending money back to their own families in the native countries, this country receives a distinct financial loss. C. K. Brown, the second speaker for the affirmative, argued that such a law would not be socially uplifting or politically wise. He claimed that sentimental rea-

(Continued on Page 5)

Davidson Held to Tie Score--- Put Up Pretty Offensive and Defensive Game

Teams Battle to 0 to 0 Score—Cassell and Hammett Stars for Wildcats—P. C. Shows Splendid Team Work—Davidson’s Goal in Danger Several Times

Holding like a stone wall, under her own goal posts, in the last minute of play Davidson robbed Presbyterian College of a chance for victory, and advanced the ball out of danger before the final whistle blew. The Wildcats were fortunate indeed to emerge from the fracas with the result a scoreless tie. The Palmetto team threatened to score on other occasions, and the only thing that saved Davidson was the opportune breaks in the game.

Receiving the kick-off in the opening half, P. C. ran the ball back to mid-field. By a series of line bucks, they finally advanced the ball to Davidson’s seven-yard line by a clever lateral pass. At this juncture, the Red and Black defense stiffened, and held the aggressors for two downs and threw them for a four-yard loss on the third down. Fulton dropped back to the 20-yard line and attempted a drop kick. It proved a miserable failure, and Davidson advanced the ball out of danger the remainder of the half.

Again in the opening of the final quarter, P. C. rushed the ball to the 21-yard line. Here Fulton again fizzled a drop kick. Not once during the whole game did Davidson demonstrate a flash of football. Only once did she make a substantial gain, this being by the aerial route for 23 yards to Doug. The South Carolina lads made 11 first downs against three for Davidson. Time after time they cut down the Wildcat interference and pinned the runner without a gain.

The only redeeming feature for Davidson was the playing of Hammett and Cassell. The former proved the backbone on the defense and frequently broke through the P. C. line, throwing their backs for losses. Cassell’s toe undoubtedly was the chief factor in saving Davidson from defeat. The clever Virginian’s punts were accurate and well placed. On one occasion while on his own 39-yard line, he dodged one P. C. tackler and kicked through three others of the defense who had broken through.

Special mention should be made of the entire P. C. backfield. Their interference was excellent. Fulton ran the team in ship-shape style and on one occasion intercepted a forward pass and returned 34 yards before being forced outside. Belk and Richerson skirted the ends for consistent gains, and McMillan, at full, plowed through the line at will until Davidson’s goal was in imminent danger.

The day was ideal for football. Much enthusiasm was aroused among the rooters and even though the Wildcats were putting up a bad game, the student body was behind the team to the finish. The crowd was estimated to be about 800, with a large percentage of Charlotte folk present who had motored up.

First Quarter.

P. C. won the toss and chose to receive at the south goal. Davidson lined up without Black and Johnson, much to the dismay of the students. Cassell kicked to Belk, who received on the 25-yard line and ran the kick-off back to midfield. Richerson made five through guard and four more in the same place. Fulton made two through center and first down. McMillan made one through center. Richerson fumbled but recovered without loss. First down: A forward pass was blocked, but McMillan hit center for two, putting the ball on Davidson’s 34-yard line. Here a beautiful forward pass Fulton to Neville netted 27 yards and brought the ball to the seven-yard line. First down. Davidson held for two downs and then McMaster threw McMillan for a four-yard loss. Fulton dropped back to the 20-yard line to attempt a field goal. The kick went wild by yards. Davidson’s ball on the 20-yard line. Cassell made three yards. Spann got one yard but McAlister was stopped without gain. Cassell kicked to P. C. 43-yard line and Belk returned 10. P. C. ball on Davidson’s 47-yard line. P. C. lost two yards on a fumble. Davidson penalized five yards for off-side. First down. Richerson failed to gain but McMillan made three around left end. A pass failed and P. C. kicked behind Davidson’s line. Davidson's ball on the 20-yard line. Cassell opened up with six through tackle. McAlister added three and Shepherd made it first down.

Second Quarter.

McAlister made one, Shepherd four and repeated for three more. Cassell kicked to P. C. 39-yard line. McMillan hit tackle for five and Richerson made it first down with six more. Belk advanced five yards and McMillan plowed through tackle for four more. Fulton made it first down through center. Richerson made three and McMillan repeated. Belk failed to gain and Cassell broke up a forward pass. Ball goes over. Davidson's ball on her own 32-yard line. McAlister skirted left end for three. Cassell hit tackle for two, and McAlister added three more. On a kick formation, four P. C. men broke through the line. Cassell dodged the foremost and kicked successfully through the other three. P. C. received on her own 40-yard line and Fulton advanced five yards. Richerson and Belk failed to gain. P. C. penalized 15 yards for holding. Fulton gained 10. McMillan kicked to D. C. 40-yard line. P. C. offside, penalized five yards.

(Continued on Page 2)

* * *

Calendar.

Thursday—Thanksgiving service, 10 a.m.
Thursday night—Moving pictures.
Friday afternoon—Senior Speaking.
Friday night—Moving pictures, Marguerite Clark in “Goose Girl,” Senior Speaking.
Saturday—Senior Speaking. Literary Societies, 6:15.
Saturday night—Glee Club concert, Fraternity Reception.
Sunday night—“Y” meeting, Moving pictures.
Monday night—Junior Literary Societies.