THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1919

Athletic News

Sophs, 36; Seniors (26)

Pos’n. Sophs (30) Juniors (29)
Hawkins (14) - Streibich (12)
Hamilton - - - Doubles (4)
Forwards
Askew (6) - - - Roberts (8)
Center
Wilson (4) - - - Irvin (2)
Craig (2) - - - Price (4)
Guards

Juniors 19; Fresh 14.

On Thursday afternoon in one of the hardest fought games played this year, the Juniors defeated the Freshmen by the
close score of 19 to 14. The game was rough, each team fighting hard till the final whistle blew. The
Juniors caged the first couple of baskets, but the Freshmen came back strong and made the upperclassmen play hard to
come out of the first half with an 8 to 8 tie. The Freshmen’s teamwork in this period was excellent;
the Juniors were outclassed in this stage of the game but showed their superior eye in shooting baskets, where the
Fresh are weak. The Juniors came back strong in the second half and led their opponents by two baskets for
the remainder of the game.

Referee: Schenck. Timekeeper: Finley. Scorer: Oltman. Time of halves: 15 minutes.

Standing of Class Teams.
Team. Won. Lost.
Sophs 4 0
Juniors 3 1
Seniors 1 3
Fresh 0 4

Gridiron Gleanings

W. and L. Loses to Georgetown—Furman Outplays Clemson in Tie

From all reports, it seems that Clemson was very fortunate to secure a 7 to 7 count with Furman. The
Tigers were on the defensive throughout the game and only at the time of her lone touchdown did she threaten
Furman’s goal. Seven times during the game Furman had the ball on Clemson’s 20-yard line, and twice on the four-yard
line. On one occasion, Furman, with the ball on the four-yard line, completed a pass for a touchdown, only to
have it ruled out because the player receiving the pass stepped with one foot over the end-zone line beyond the
goal. The Furman team is complete master of the forward passing game. Spear, speedy halfback, was as usual the particular
star of the game. Many trick plays were used successfully.

South Carolina, greatly outweighed, went down in defeat to the University of Florida by a score of 13 to 0.
Harvard won from Yale in their annual football classic by a score of 10 to 3. One of the particular
features of the game was Braden’s drop-kick of 53 yards for Yale. The University of North Carolina is making elaborate
preparations for the Carolina-Virginia Thanksgiving game. A record-breaking crowd is expected to attend this game, the first to be staged
on the University field. From all indications, the two teams are about evenly matched. Virginia had a bad start but
has gradually strengthened throughout the season.

Sophs 36; Juniors 29.

The Sophomores forged into the lead in the interclass basketball series by defeating the strong Junior team by a score
of 36 to 29. The game was played on Tuesday night, and as was expected, it was the most hotly
contested game yet played. Neither team had lost a game and each team was struggling to keep her record clear.
The Sophs made the first basket and from then on to the end of the first half neither team led
by more than two baskets. The Sophomores changed their lineup between halves and came back in the last half and
played the Juniors off their feet, obtaining a safe lead which they held until the final whistle blew. The game
was hard and fast and was not marred by rough playing or holding.

Summary:
Sophs. Position. Juniors.
Doubles (8) - Ormond (18) Right Forward
Roberts (16) - Oltman (2) Left Forward
Streibich (6) - Finley (0) Center
Price (6) - Brice (2) Right Guard
Erwin, L. (0) - King (6) Left Guard

Referee: Miles. Timekeeper: McAlister.

Seniors 30; Fresh 18.

The Seniors broke the tie for the cellar position when they defeated the Fresh on Wednesday 30 to 18. The
first goal was thrown by the winners, who kept the lead during the entire game. Hawkins was the individual star.
He continued his spectacular shooting from difficult positions and amassed 20 of the Seniors’ 30 points. Askew also did good
work for the victors and Houghton for the Fresh.

Line-up:
Seniors. Position. Fresh.
Hawkins - RF - Houghton
Askew - LF. . . - - Toney | Pittsburgh, 17; Carnegie Tech, 7. Liston....----.- C . ~~ (c) Mauze
| Louisiana State, 27; Tulane, 6. Craig (c)------. LG...-.- Brake | U. of Va. Fresh, 34; North Caro- ilson_____..-- RG
- ~ ~ Crawford lina Fresh, 7. Field goals: Hawkins 10, Askew Princeton, 2; Cornell, 12. 3, Craig 2, Haughton
3, Toney 2, Mauze 1, Brake 1, Crawford 1. Referee: Brice. Scorer: Irwin. Sophs 30; Seniors 26. The Sophomores continued
their unbroken winning streak by defeating the Seniors by a 30 to 26 count. The score at the end of
the initial period was 20 to 10. In the last period the Seniors staged a pretty comeback and outplayed the
Sophs with a score of 16 to 10 for this half.

Miles Cowles, ex, '16, is still in the army, serving at the Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Mass., and is attending classes
at Boston Tech.

As They Play Thanksgiving:
Davidson vs. Furman.
Ga. Tech. vs. Auburn.
Clemson vs. Univ. of Georgia.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest.
Pres. Col. of S. C. vs. Newberry.
U. of N.C. vs. U. of Va.
U. of S. C. vs. Citadel.

DAVIDSON HELD TO TIE SCORE.
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson’s ball on own 45-yard line. Spann reeled off four and Cassel one. Here Belk intercepted a forward pass on
his own 43-yard line. McMillan fumbled and Cassel recovered. Shepherd gained six thru tackle but Spann fumbled. Cassel kicked to
Belk on P. C. 30-yard line. Richerson hit guard for five and made it first down thru the same place
with six more. McMillan made four thru center and the half ended with the ball in P. C.’s possession on
their own 44-yard line.

Third Quarter.
Cassel received the kick on the 10-yard line and returned to the 30-yard line. McAlister gained two, Shepherd and Spann
one each. Cassel kicked to P. C. 38-yard line. McMillan gained two and Belk repeated. A forward pass failed and
McMillan kicked to D. C. 15-yard line. Shepherd gained two and McAlister repeated. Spann advanced three yards around left end.
Cassell’s kick was blocked, but he recovered and gained 15 yards on the play. Davidson's ball on 27-yard line. Shepherd
and Spann made three. A forward pass to Davis was blocked and Cassel kicked to midfield. McMillan skirted right end
for nine and Richerson made it first down. Richerson and Belk failed to gain. Cassel intercepted a pass but was
downed in his tracks. Cassel gained two but Shepherd failed. A lateral pass to Douglas netted 23 yards and put
the pigskin on P. C. 47-yard line. Shepherd and McAlister failed to gain. Fulton intercepted a pass and carried the
ball to D. C. 28-yard line, running 34 yards before being forced outside. McMillan gained five, but Belk and Richerson
were thrown without gain. A forward pass fell short and it was Davidson’s ball on her own 26-yard line.

Fourth Quarter.
Douglas gained two and McAlister added three more. Cassel kicked to D. C. 42-yard line. McFaden replaced Shepherd at full,
and Sorrells went in for Romefelt. McMillan made four. Belk added two, and Richerson made it first down. McMillan added
four. Richerson was stopped once but made seven on a second attempt. Belk failed to gain. McMillan hit guard for
three. P. C. penalized five yards for holding. A forward pass failed. Fulton then attempted a drop kick from 25-yard
line. He missed by yards. Davidson’s ball on own 20-yard line. McMillan plowed thru center for seven yards. With the
ball on her four-yard line, Davidson held for three downs, in which P. C. advanced the ball to the two-foot
line. Ball goes over. McAlister gained three and Spann gained two. Whistle blew with ball in Davidson’s possession on her
own eight-yard line. Davidson penalized 15 yards.

The line-up:
P. College. Position. Davidson.
Knox and Barnette Woodson, L....- RE - - - Douglas
Eichelberger_...RT - - - McMaster
Williamson___-_- RG - - - LaF
Woodson, H - - - C.---- Brady
Woodson, H - - - C.---- Brady
Blakely.---.--- - - - Hammett
Neville LE_l_.- Davis

General Merchandise
Fulton..------- QB_.--..- Spann
Richerson....-- RH._-..- Cassel
Belk___.------- LH ~~ - McAlister
McMillan____.- FB ~ - — ~ Shepherd

Time of quarters: 15 minutes.
Substitutes: McFaden for Shepherd; Sorrells for Romefelt. Referee, Booe. Umpire, Long. Head-linesman, Peden.

ARGONNE
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing
R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y.
The name “Argonne” is used by courtesy of the American Shirt Co., Philadelphia.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. J. B. Beard, Assistant Cashier.

A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Cunningham, the Barber
Phone 85
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.

STOP AND SEE
For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled
Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Watts Agency
