THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919

Athletic News

Football Gleanings

Happenings of the Past Week

The Clemson Tigers continued their successful season with a victory over the strong Tennessee aggregation by a score of 14
to 0. Clemson, according to Heisman, has the best team she has had in 10 years. Next Thursday at noon
Clemson will play the University of South Carolina at the State Fair in Columbia. This will be the big game
of the state.

Furman surprised the Carolina football circles by defeating Wake Forest 39-7. By comparative scores of the Davidson-Wake Forest and Carolina-Wake
Forest games, it would appear that the Wildcats will have a very formidable foe on Thanksgiving day in Furman. Citadel
downed P. C. by a 12 to 7 count.

Glen Warner's Pittsburgh Panthers defeated the Georgia Tech’s Golden Tornado 16 to 6. Pittsburgh piled up her score in the
first half, after which the Southerners rallied and outplayed the Panthers, but were unable to overcome the long lead. Tech
played a wonderful game and twice held Pitt on her one-foot line.

The strong Syracuse team, which administered the decisive defeat to Pittsburgh, went down in defeat to Washington and Jefferson by
a score of 13 to 0. Double passes were used by both sides throughout the first half, but without result.

Colgate mastered Princeton in a hard-fought struggle, emerging with the large end of a 7 to 0 tally. Harvard’s superior
weight and tactics played havoc with Virginia when the Crimson defeated the squad from the Old Dominion State by a
score of 47 to 0. Vanderbilt, 7; Auburn, 6. Army, 13; Boston College, 0.

The University of North Carolina secured the decision over N. C. State by a close score of 13 to 12.
This was the first time these two elevens have played in several years. From all accounts, it appears that the
University was very fortunate in securing the victory. The game was very close and hard-fought with Coach Fetzer’s team having
a slight advantage during most of the game. Each team made two touchdowns and on account of the muddy field
only one goal was kicked. This goal with its lone tally proved to be the deciding factor of the game,
and Carolina emerged the victor. Carolina’s substitutions, 12 in all, proved to be an interesting item of the game. Gurley
was the star for N. C. State.

Washington and Lee defeated Roanoke College 32 to 0. N. C. State defeated this same aggregation by a score of
78 to 0 and on a mud-soaked field.

The Wildcats are seriously handicapped in the face of three of their very hardest games—those with Georgia Tech, N. C.
State, and the University of N.C. Jack Black is still out of the game with his broken hand. Hammett, Johnston,
LaFar, Brady, and Cassell are still on the injured list. This means the Red and Black machine has five of
her last

Week’s Play Shows Georgia Pitted Against Watts for Championship

Watts 26—North Wing Chambers 14.

Watts added another scalp to her belt on Wednesday, North Wing Chambers being the victims, 26-14. The game was pretty
snappy, and Watts piled up her score by superior teamwork and passing, having recovered from her reversal of form in
the Rumple “fight.” It was a very even contest through the first half, Watts leading by just three goals, but
they picked up speed in the last session, putting the game on ice within a very few minutes. Both Watts
and Georgia are now undefeated, and the student body is looking forward with glee to next Thursday, the 30th, when
they clash in the game which will decide the championship.

Watts.
Oltman (14) .. .. .. Covington (8) right half
Hall .. .. .. .. .. Brown, J. S. (2) left half
Roberts (12) .. .. ... Cornelson (4) center
Finley .. .. 6... «2... .. Schenck right guard
Price... .. .. .. .. .. Wilson, T. H. left guard

Referee: Mr. Miles; time of halves: 15 minutes.

Watts 67—S. W. Chambers 15.

Watts again emerged the victor in her game with South Wing Chambers last Friday by a score of 67-15. The
teamwork of Watts was responsible for the large score. The forwards of S. Wing were completely baffled, all of the
15 points being scored by the center and one guard. The game was not very interesting to the spectators on
account of the one-sided score.

Line-up:
Watts. Position. S. W. Chambers.
Ormand, A. P. right forward
Finley Hawkins left forward
Roberts .. .. .. . Freeman (7) center
Oltman .. .. .. 2. 2... .. Neel (8) right guard
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. McKeithen left guard

Referee: Mr. Miles; time of halves: 15 minutes.

Georgia 49—Louisiana 8.

Georgia retained her lead in the inter-dormitory basketball series by defeating Louisiana, 49-8. The game was harder fought than the
score indicates, but on account of superior passing and shooting Georgia was able to run up a large score. The
Louisiana team fought hard and made their opponents extend themselves, at times, to score.

Line-up:
Georgia. Position. Louisiana.
Doubles .. .. .. 2... right forward
Askew .. .. .. Brake left forward
Chalmers .. .. .. .. .. .. Houghton center
King .. .. McLaurin, Miley, W. H. right guard
Brice... .. .. 0. 2. 0. Foil left guard

The standing of the teams in the league at present:
Team. Won. Lost.
Georgia .. .. .. 4 0
Watts .. .. 4 0
S. Wing Chambers .. 2 2
Rumple .. .. .. 1 3
N. Wing Chambers... 1 3
Louisiana .. 0 4

Rumple 24—North Wing 12.

What proved to be one of the hardest series was won by Rumple against North Wing Chambers to the tune
of 24 to 12.Thursday afternoon. The game was unusually rough, having the most formidable Wildcats either out of the game
or greatly handicapped. Keep up that old Davidson spirit. We are back of you, Wildcats—whether you win or lose. It's
the way you play the game that counts, and that is what we are proud of. Red and Black Eleven!
No man ever learned to swim by watching others. It’s the same with tennis. Enter the tournament.

Rumple succeeded in gaining and holding the lead by displaying teamwork, which is a result of the hard games they
have played. In keeping with the roughness, the goal shooting was wild and badly aimed, many clear shots being missed
by both teams.

Line-up:
Rumple. Position. N. Wing.
Elliott forward Irwin
Covington forward Mauze
Cornelson center

The wise man must be wise before, not after the event.—Epicharmus.

Every Davidson man is solidly behind Coach Crayton and our team.

Manager Spence has arranged for himself. Begin to save the shekels. Above all, don't be a slacker.

Biggest Tennis Tournament Ever Held at Davidson
Sixty-Four in Singles—Fifteen Teams in Doubles
WILL YOU BE THERE? GET IN AND ROOT.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

O you Georgia! Get in there Watts! Just such yells as this will be heard issuing from the gym Friday
night after the movies when Georgia and Watts hook up for the final game. You can bet your last dollar
that this is going to be some scrap, for it is the championship game in the inter-dormitory basketball series. Neither
team has lost a game, so you know that both of them will be there with plenty of war paint.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier
A. Lee Steen, V-Pres. J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

FANCY GROCERIES
FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you, tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Undertaking Supplies
See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

Saturday at noon, Manager Spence put 64 pieces of paper with names of the contestants on them into a hat
and Askew made the draw, which was as follows:
Manning vs. Davidson, R. F.; Wyman, H. H., vs. Mahood; Long, C. H., vs. Davidson, G. Y.; Gibson vs. Gilchrist;
Cunningham vs. Wolfork; Ormand, A. P., vs. Bethea, D. W.; Hollandsworth vs. Price, J. P.; Spence vs. Fewell; Shields vs.
Hawkins; Dantzler vs. Barnette; Adams vs. Murphy; Streibech, C. M., vs. Hodgin, C. E.; Ormand, A. C., vs. Mauze; Gaither
vs. McLeod, R. L.; Matthews, W. W., vs. Oltman; Morris vs. Bostic; Forgey vs. Wilkinson; Hodgin, W. C., vs. Hall,
W. F.; Calhoun, M. R., vs. Roberts, J. W.; McKutcheon, Geo., vs. Carmichael; McKeldin, J. R., vs. Hyland; Good vs.
Hall, J. V.; Harris vs. McKeldin, G.; Tuller vs. Liston; Johnston, V., vs. Streibech, F.; Simmons vs. Sloan, J.; Davis
vs. Fricker; King vs. Shaw, R. K.; Guille vs. McCutcheon, J. M.; Haney vs. Bradley; Hamilton vs. Miller, F. E.;
Knox vs. Boulware.

The referees chosen are McKeldin, G.; McKeldin, J.; Price, J.; Gaither; Hall, W. F.; Hawkins, and Spence. A. F. Fricker
is the official scorekeeper.

The doubles draw was as follows:
Johnson and Davidson a bye; Cunningham and Hamilton vs. Dunlap and Sprunt; Bernhardt Brothers vs. Hall and Spence; Oltman and
Roberts vs. Covington and Fraser; Price and Bradley vs. Harris and Gilchrist; McKutcheon and Wilkinson vs. McKeldin Brothers; Craig and
Richards vs. Hawkins and Martin; Hyland and Brice vs. Boulware and Bostic.

On to Charlotte
The arrangements are being completed for taking the entire student body to Charlotte to see the game on November 8.
Manager Frank Hall has made arrangements for extra cars to be placed on the 11:50 train to carry the students.
Of course, the fellows will want to take in the town after the game, so the special will not leave
Charlotte until about 11 o'clock that night. This will allow everyone to be back on the hill before Sunday. In
regard to fares, Mr. Abernathy says he does not know exactly what has been planned, but probably there will be
a reduction. In any case, it will not be more than the ordinary fare. The only condition is a guarantee
of one hundred dollars to pay for the special train on the return trip. This means that every loyal Davidson
man must back up the proposition.

Plans for concerted action of the students in cheers, songs, and parade are in the process of formation. This requires
the unqualified support of every man. Fellows, be sure to go and do everything possible to help the team. It
is the least a man can do for his college.

E. N. BOOKER
Perfectly appointed buildings, largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South.
