6 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Greater Davidson Club Organized By Students
Executive Committee Elected.

Davidson has entered upon a new era in her history. The institution is going to grow in numbers, in quality, and in college spirit. Last Saturday morning the Greater Davidson Club was officially organized. J. H. Miller, the president of our student body, outlined the object and aims of the club. It is to be composed of every member of the student body and the host of loyal Davidson alumni, who are scattered throughout the country. It has three essential functions. First, it is to get the men on the campus closer together. It is to make every man feel that he is a part of a great machine working for the best interests of the college, and that he must do his part if Davidson is to be the best. The second object of the club is to help the college grow in numbers. Each man will return with at least one new student with him. The job of getting new men is no longer the work of the college officials, but each student will be allowed to help in this work. And last of all, the club is to keep the alumni in closer touch with the present student body and their Alma Mater. The president of the athletic association, R. R. Clark, emphasized the need of such a club and moved that it be organized. The motion was seconded by J. R. Boswell and short speeches were made by Woods, McArn, McAskill, Roberts, and Schenck. The motion was then voted upon and unanimously passed. The name agreed upon was “The Greater Davidson Club.” After some discussion, it was decided that the president of the student body should be the president of the club and that the executive committee should be composed of the presidents and one representative from each class. After a resolution asking Dr. MacConnell and Coach Fetzer to speak to the club at an early date was adopted, the first meeting of the Greater Davidson Club adjourned. The class representatives who were elected after the club adjourned were Clark, '19, Roberts, '20, McCaskill, J. C., '21, and McFadden, J. M., '22. These men are to serve with their class presidents on the executive committee of the Greater Davidson Club.

THE NIGHT HAS A THOUSAND EYES.
(Said to be the most perfect short poem in the English language.)

The night has a thousand eyes,
The day but one;
Yet the light of the bright world dies
With the dying sun.

The mind has a thousand eyes,
And the heart but one;
Yet the light of a whole life dies
When love is done.
—Francis Bourdillon.

TOUGH, INDEED.
Employee—“I would like more salary. I am going to marry.”
Employer—“Sorry, but I'll have to reduce it. I am going to get married myself.”—Sydney Post.

A COLORFUL ODE.
He kissed her on the cheek,
It seemed a harmless frolic;
He's been laid up for a week,
They say with painter's colic.
—Exchange.

There’s a meter of measure and a meter in verse,
And each is a useful one;
But under a silver moon, to “meter—”
Well, that is second to none.

Greater Davidsonian Planned. Outlook Prosperous.

While a number of fellows were giving proof of their glee because of the holiday on Wednesday, a group of master minds were gathered around the festal board to celebrate the close of Davidsonian's best year. It is hoped that all understand that not only their mental capacities were being treated to good things. To remove any doubt about it, let it be said that they started off on a salad course, including the ever-present “hot dogs.” Drinks, sandwiches, and oranges were next offered to their dainty palates, after which ice cream, the Neapolitan kind, in double portions and homemade cake were greatly enjoyed. All were duly shocked when the ministerials “lit up” with the others on the smokes. Peanuts and jokes were cracked for the remainder of the evening, with E. A. Woods acting as toastmaster. Plans for next year and criticisms of the past were made for the Davidsonian. Its outlook for the future seems very promising indeed with the able corps of editors which will be here in the coming session. Those present at the convivialities were: E. A. Woods, J. J. Love, R. W. Miles, E. G. Lilly, E. Flinn, D. M. Chalmers, J. R. Boulware, Jr., C. H. Long, R. C. Garth, W. T. Dunlap, D. M. Chalmers, W. M. Currie, T. H. Wilson, C. J. Matthews, D. W. Roberts, T. C. Stone, T. R. Alexander, J. M. Witherspoon, E. A. Turner, S. T. McCloy, J. M. Gaston, J. E. Cassell, J. G. Calhoun, L. L. McAlister, A. L. Wilson, and J. C. McAskill.

MR. MILES MADE TALK AT WORLD FORUM

At the regular meeting of the world forum last Thursday night, Mr. Miles made a very interesting and inspiring talk on “The Call of the World's Present Need.” The next study will be the fifth chapter in “The Call of a World Task.” Every student is urged to come to these meetings every Thursday evening. The course of study that is being pursuedis one of vital interest to every man today. You do not know what benefit and inspiration you are missing until you attend these meetings. Be on hand next meeting and show that you are back of the “Y” in this work. SO IT IS.

I shot an arrow into the air;
It fell in distance I knew not where
Till a neighbor said that I killed his calf—
And I had to pay him six and a half.

I bought some poison to kill some rats
And a neighbor swore it killed his cats,
And rather than argue across the fence,
I paid him four dollars and fifty cents.

One night I sat sailing a toy balloon
And hoped that it would soar till it reached the moon;
But the candle it fell on a farmer's straw
And he said I must settle or go to law;
And that is the way with random shot
It never hit the proper spot,
And a joke you spring that you think so smart:
May leave a wound in some heart.
—Exchange.

SENSITIVE.

Assistant (to old lady who has handed in a badly spelled telegram)—"What's this word, please?"
Old Lady—"Never mind that, miss, it’s none of your business. They'll know at the other end."
—Passing Show.

FORM OF 400 B. C. SHOWN IN CLASS PRACTICE GAMES.

Characterized the boys’ attempt at a baseball game Saturday. Not “the battle of the mounds,” mind you, for the pitching was rotten, the support more rotten and the batting, well, there wasn't any batting to speak of. However, with Stone, Hall and Love lined up against Black, Key and Craig, truly the contest put on a grammatical flavor.

Thomas, who started (not starred) in the box for the Juniors, seemed to have had the correct idea as to the way of preventing his opponents from hitting the ball, i.e., to keep it away from the plate. He kept it way away too. When accidentally he threw one in the vicinity of the base the batter managed to be hit with it. The Seniors are to be congratulated on their self-control and never was an unladylike utterance made when they were hit by the ball. In fact, their pseudo efforts at dodging reminded one of the attempts of sweet sixteen to prevent being kissed. You all understand, of course.

Brady, behind the bat, presided over the destinies of missed strikes and skip fouls for the Juniors. Key played first in a true Chesterfield fashion, while Lacy McAlister stopped everything that did not get through him at second and graceful Bob Black claimed third as his post. There were three outfielders.

For the class of '19, Charlie Wilson and String Bean McCaskill did most of the handling of the ball. “Heart's Desire” Love did receiving at first. “Pebble” Stone was a tower of weakness at the midway station. Turner probably played his last game at short as he will more than likely be ruled out. He was too good. Leighton McKeithen showed wonderful talents for railroad work by his flagging of flies in left field. General Hall, of “The Lost Squad” (See Capt. Harris for particulars), tented in center half of each inning. There is a movement to rule out spiked shoes and thus make the “Diamond safe for tennis shoes.” The score was 9 to 8 in favor of the Seniors. (This last is added for the benefit of the curious, not that it really makes any difference).

WANTED IT ALL.

The customer picked up the knife from the counter and handed it to the butcher, with a friendly smile.
“I don’t really want it,” he said, “but if you will cut it off I will take it along with the rest.”
“Cut what off?” demanded the butcher in blank surprise.
“Your hand,” was the gentle reply. “You weighted it with the sausage, and I like to get what I pay for.”
—Tit-Bits.

“What kind of a college would this college be,
If all its members were just like me”
—Exchange.

“Skirt Model Suits”

Just received 100 new Skirt Model Suits in plain blue, brown and green, also fancy patterns marked special at $19.50, $25.00, $27.50 and $29.50.

WE SELL IT FOR LESS
BELK BROTHERS

PHOTO FINISHING
R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

BLUE RIDGE SCHOOL FOR BOYS.
HENDERSONVILLE, N.C.

A select home school, on Accredited List, offering to a limited number of boys, from 9 to 20 years old, a more intensive system of training than public schools can give. Ideally located in healthful, invigorating climate, conducive to study. Each boy's personality carefully studied and directed by a staff composed of virile, patriotic men with successful teaching experience. A teacher for every seven or eight boys insures individual attention in studies. Boys taught HOW TO STUDY. Military drill, boy-scout activities, and all branches of athletics directed and supervised by able instructors. High moral tone; homelike, cultured environments, parental discipline. Total charges for session, Sept. 17 to June 6, $480. Summer Term, July 1 to Aug. 26. For catalogue, address J. R. SANDIFER, Headmaster, HENDERSONVILLE, N.C.