The Pounded by Class of '15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
D. W. ROBERTS

Associate Editor-in-Chief
P. R. COLWARE, Jr.

Assistant Editor
J. B. SCHENCK

Sporting Editors
B. H. ASKEW
J. C. McCASKILL

Alumni Editor
H. SPENCE

Campus Editor
J. G. CALHOUN

Literary Editor
R. S. McILWAINE

Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
E. N. BOOKER
R. T. L. LISTON
R. R. CRAIG
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
J. M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE
A. C. SUMMERS
W. R. BOOTH

Additional reporters for this issue are:
A. P. Ormand, A. C. Ormand

Business Manager
C. J. MATTHEWS

Assistant Business Manager
L. E. OSBORNE

Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG
A. M. MITCHELL

EDITORIAL

Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts on account of sickness, Dwight Chalmers has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem.

Keep that Handbook Handy.

Real life finds its joy not in the satisfaction of the man as he is, but in the development of that which his thought and love enable him to become.

Don't worry, Wildcats, cooler weather is coming. Tigers are used to tropical heat and “dampness.”

ACCORDING TO WEBSTER:
A thug is “One of a fraternity of robbers in India who practiced secret murder, as an act of propitiation to the goddess Kali; a ruffian.”

WE RESOLVE:
To take at least thirty minutes of exercise each day. Do you?

OUR WEEKLY FALSEHOOD:
All Seniors have completed their Senior Orations.

UNFULFILLED PROPHECY:
Davidsonian, Jan. 15, 1919.—"Amo Love has an unenviable job as editor of the Annual, but we are confident that he will put out a volume that will do credit to the Senior class." Is this a slam on the class of '19?

UNDULY HONORED.
The class of ‘14 has been given credit in the past three issues for founding “The Davidsonian.” We have since learned from several sources that members of the class of '15 were the far-seeing sponsors of the “Livest Wire.” We publicly confess our error, humbly beg their pardon, and promise never to do it again. Nevertheless, we have profited even by this mistake, for we have learned that the founding of “The Davidsonian” is an honor any class might covet, and that our alumni are reading even the editorial page!

WAKE UP WITHIN YOURSELF.
The days for the blowing of bubbles and the dreaming of dreams are done. New times are impending and new needs necessitate methods unknown of old. Strange difficulties are arising only to give opportunities for stranger accomplishments. The earth bounds the possibilities of the man of the great mind; space those of the man of the great heart: but infinity itself fails to check or confine the man of the great soul. College men are leading the world. A Davidson College man is leading the leaders. The inference is intelligible. You can never ascertain your powers by living in a trance. Take yourself for a trial spin. Find out what you can do: then show others. Potential energy never helped this college to be better or grow greater and never will. Lend your talents to your fellows. Nothing will develop both more quickly. Remember in all your striving: Greatness is good but goodness is far greater. Many a city has been seized while the watch slept. A sleeping sentinel never gave an alarm. Work with a will for the welfare of your college, but first—WAKE UP WITHIN YOURSELF.

A TWENTY POINT MAN.
The Point System allows a man to hold only 9 points at one time. Further, it permits a man to hold only one five-point job. But we know a man who is holding down four five-point offices and it is our purpose to expose him. The only explanation we can offer for this grave violation of our worthy constitution is the fact that he accomplishes each of his jobs better than another man could, putting all his time on that job. He is the busiest man on the campus, but he always has time to chat a while with the rest of us. He is as interested in our troubles as he is in his own. As secretary of the Greater Davidson Club, he has brought together the largest student body in our history. The Alumni Athletic Association seized upon him for its secretary, and he is making that organization a powerful factor in Davidson athletics. When the students wanted a “Y" man they chose him unanimously, and he is bringing the Y. M. C. A. into the life of every student. He is assistant basketball coach, “Davidsonian” adviser and student champion. In addition to these man-size tasks, he holds first place in our hearts. Do you know who he is?

Star Reporters this issue: J. M. Richards and M. R. Doubles.

A GRAIN OF GOOD.
May the S. A. T. C. never return! But there was one thing it brought to Davidson that ought not to pass away, namely, singing. Singing gave us pep then and can still do it. Davidson has some fine songs of her own which every loyal student should know and sing. Can we not start something between reels at our next movie?

OPEN FORUM
H. A. Hill, Acting Editor.

Comparative Impressions.
(Editor's note: There are at Davidson a number of men who came here after two or three years spent at other colleges. It is our purpose to have them tell us through the “Forum” how Davidson’s customs and ideals compare with those of the colleges they have forsaken). The Forum is the department in our discussion of any topic pertaining to student life. Opinions, ideas, and suggestions—either constructive or destructive—on campus improvements, college activities, student body policies or any other subject are welcomed by the Forum editor. By putting up to the public any problem of student life, thought on that problem is encouraged, and very likely right conclusions will soon be reached. The alumni are also urged to keep the old college in mind, and to send us any advice or suggestions they believe helpful to Davidson. All communications to the Forum must of course bear the signature of the author, though it will not be published if he so desires.

STICK, STAY, STUDY.
A more or less famous saying is that a honeymoon is a space of time between love sick and sick of love. In other words, it is a time when the two contracting parties wake up to a realization of exactly what she or he has bargained for and bought. Right now, Freshmen, you are having your honeymoon with Davidson.military school. “JIM.” APPOINTMENTS ANNOUNCED FOR REORGANIZED BATTALION. At the reorganization of the battalion, the following officers and non-commissioned officers were appointed:

Major—Hall, W. M.
Adjutant—Hall, W. F.

Company A.
Captain—Sample, J. H.
First Lieutenant—Romefelt, B. W.
Second Lieutenant—Foscue, A. L.
First Sergeant—Mitchell, A. A.
Sergeants—Price, J. P., Cornelson, G. H., Douglas, P., Brice, S. D.
Corporals—Boney, E. R., Poteat, J. A., Wilkinson, L. L., Story, S. D., Ramseur, W. L., Groves, J. W., Fairey, W. F., Dick, L. W., Cunningham, C. E., Aiken, R. C.

Company B.
Captain—Boulware, J. R.
First Lieutenant—Gaston, J. M.
Second Lieutenant—McGeachy, D. P.
First Sergeant—Harrell, W. H.
Supply Sergeant—McIlwaine, R. R.
Sergeants—Heizer, M. B., Nash, R. M.
Corporals—Brice, R. M., Grantham, G. D., Hedges, W. B., Davis, S. M., Roddey, J., Bernhardt, J. W.

Company C.
Captain—Taylor, J. P.
First Lieutenant—Wilson, T. H.
Second Lieutenant—Doubles, M. R.
First Sergeant—Richards, J. G.
Supply Sergeant—Query, S.
Sergeants—La Far, D. R., Lowry, T. M., Horton, L. T.
Corporals—Price, J. K., Ratchford, W. S., Curry, J. S., Doggett, M. W., Toms, M. F.

Company D.
Captain—Shields, B. E.
First Lieutenant—Davis, A. J.
Second Lieutenant—McFadden, J.
First Sergeant—Hunter, C.
Supply Sergeant—Spence, T. H.
Sergeants—Bethea, P. O., Clyburn, T. B., Drake, A. E.
Corporals—Bailey, J. C., Summers, A. C., Montgomery, L. F., Shaw, R. K., McCorkle, W. W., Hamer, B. M.

Company E.
Captain—Rogers, R. L.
First Lieutenant—McCaskill, J. C.
Second Lieutenant—Phillips, J. W.
First Sergeant—Breitenhirt, B. B.
Supply Sergeant—Finley, A. C.
Sergeants—Liston, R. T. L., Wright, F. J., McEwen, A. J.
Corporals—Richards, J. M., Ormond, A. C., Cellar, A. E., Clark, J. F., Carmichael, G. M., Fraser, L. L.

R. O. T. C. SERGEANTS MOVE INTO NEW QUARTERS.
A new dormitory on the campus presents the latest illustration of the efficiency of our R. O. T. C. unit. Although in appearance it might easily be mistaken for the old shower annex of Morrison Memorial Hall, it is in fact the “Sergeants’ Dormitory.” When it is finished it will contain two whole rooms which will compare favorably with the best room on the Hill. Perhaps even more startling additions to the college property will be staged when the treasurer gets his hands on that prospective $400,000, so be sure to do everything you can (even write home) to boost that $1,000,000 campaign for the sake of New D. C.

EXCHANGE COLUMN
Read the College Exchanges in the Library (Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

FACULTY VS. STUDENTS.
The Black Sox defeat White Sox, 17-5. Much interest was aroused here last Wednesday afternoon when the faculty beat the students 17 to 5 in a game of baseball. Feature of the game was the mode of dress adopted by each team. The faculty team was known by their black socks, while the students’ team was known by their white socks. The students wore white blouses, dark bloomers, dark shoes and white socks.—The Carolinian.

TECH TO HAVE BIG SMOKER.
The All Technology Smoker will be on October 17. It is expected that 2,000 or 3,000 men will be present. An ideal entertainment is being arranged.—Boston Tech.

On every count a higher education pays. There are men without it who succeed and do well. But not a one of them is there that wouldn't do better with it. It increases the earning power, it makes one more useful to his community, it gives mental and moral poise, and it develops character, provided one is a man. But not all the colleges in three dozen states can make a man out of a fool.—Charlotte Observer.

It’s not the cough
That carries you off,
But the coffin
They carry you off in.
—Orange and Blue.

PROFS. THREATEN TO GO ON STRIKE.
The total enrollment of students in the University will in all probability go beyond the 1,000 mark. On the first two days of registration, crowds of students thronged about the registration desks, until even ever cheerful professors threatened to form a union and strike for shorter hours.—The Kentucky Kernel.

OPPORTUNITY.
There’s a hammer called opportunity
And when the moment comes
To clinch success or else to fail,
For each who fairly strikes the nail,
A hundred hit their thumbs.
—The Mississippian.

The freshest bunch of freshmen we ever saw are now “upper classmen.”—The Mississippian. Is it not so here?

HEALTH HINTS.
1. Sleep with the window closed tight.
2. Never air your bed covers.
3. Never go to bed.
4. Overeat.
5. Don't eat at all.
6. Swallow your food without chewing it well.
7. Be tough and wear much clothing.
8. Never take a bath.
9. Don't ever think of changing your underwear weekly.
10. Never walk but always ride.
11. Keep mouth open when breathing and never take deep breaths.
12. Don't drink any water.
13. Never take an afternoon off a week.
14. Have a good grouch on all the time.
15. Never exercise and then “get licked.”