The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

ALUMNI

Dr. Martin Enters Eighth Year as Our President
Largest Student Body Now Attests to His Ability

According to Who's Who, William Joseph Martin was born in Columbia, Tenn., February 10, 1868. When he was a year old, his father moved with his family to Davidson, N.C. Dr. Martin received his A.B. degree from Davidson College in 1888, his A.M. in 1894; M.D. from the University of Virginia, 1890; Ph.D. in 1894; LL.D. from Central University and Wake Forest College in 1913. He was professor of Science in the Presbyterian College of South Carolina 1888-9; adjunct professor of Science at Davidson 1890-91; instructor in Chemistry at the University of Virginia 1892-96; Chambers professor of Chemistry at Davidson 1896-1912; Bursar 1896-09; Proctor 1908-12; President 1912—. He was moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States in 1913. He is a member of the executive committee of the Laymen's Missionary Movement of the Presbyterian Church U.S. Dr. Martin is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and also of the American Chemical Society. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi and Phi Beta Kappa (University of Virginia Chapter) fraternities.

As professor of Chemistry at Davidson, Dr. Martin performed a great service to the college. His thorough and wide acquaintance with his subject, his facility in imparting his knowledge, and his faithful painstaking work combined to make him one of Davidson's most admired professors. He was singularly successful, his students showing always the results of careful, scholarly instruction.

In 1912, Dr. Martin succeeded Dr. Henry Louis Smith as president of Davidson College. In the eight years since he became chief executive of the College, the student body has increased more than twenty-five percent. During this time, two professors have been added to the faculty; and the pastor of the Presbyterian Church has taken up work in the English department. Largely as a result of Dr. Martin's work, approximately $100,000 was added to the endowment fund of the college in 1914. He was also influential in starting the present campaign for $1,000,000 endowment for Presbyterian Colleges in North Carolina. The new gymnasium is another valuable addition to the equipment of the college which has been made in Dr. Martin’s administration. With the exception of the period of the war, Dr. Martin’s term of office has been characterized by a steady growth of the College. He has become known over the entire Southern Presbyterian Church for his devotion to the College and his zeal for its welfare. On the campus, throughout the State and the South, Dr. Martin is recognized as a power for good, as a representative of the best type of constructive leadership. The College is proud to claim him as one of her most distinguished alumni, and her present chief executive.

There were several alumni present at the annual freshman reception, among whom were: Stuart Gilchrist, J. M. Rumple, “Puddin” Cosby, and Jim Carson. Other Alumni on the Hill this week were: Tom Sparrow, L. H. Smith, C. M. Taylor, Jim Harper, and Irving Graham.

L. C. McAskill, ‘19, is with the Lee County Cotton Oil Company, of Sanford, N.C.

H. W. Davenport, ‘19, is with the Southern Cotton Oil Company at Farmville, N.C.

W. M. Currie, ‘19, is at present staying at home. He intends to enter Union Theological Seminary this fall.

L. B. McKeithan, ‘19, is at home in Cameron, N.C.

C. M. Robinson, ‘10, is Mayor of Lowell, N.C., and is engaged in the cotton mill business.

A. Y. Cashion, ‘17, was a visitor in Davidson last Saturday. He spent the weekend with his mother, Mrs. Archie Brown. He is now with Coke Cotton Company, of Gastonia, N.C.

Dr. Frank Robinson, who planted the cedars in front of Chambers building, is now located in Lowell, N.C.

F. P. Hall, father of F. P. Hall, Jr., is superintendent of schools in Gaston county. During the four years Mr. Hall was in Davidson, he did not miss a church, chapel, or class.

J. B. Sizer, ex-’20, has received his discharge from the Marines and will soon return to college. He enlisted as a private in the Marines and worked up to a lieutenant, being at the time of his appointment the youngest commissioned officer in the Marines.

Timm Pharr, ‘12, will be on the Hill this week to assist Coach Crayton in rounding the team into form. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Pharr entered Union Theological Seminary, graduated from this, and then held a pastorate for a year. Upon America’s entrance into the war, he enlisted in the Navy and served for two years. He has just received his discharge and will remain in Davidson for a short while before again taking up his work as a minister.

Mr. John B. Mallard, whose attractive little book of war sketches, entitled “In the A.E.F. With an Artist,” has attracted considerable attention, has located in Charlotte. He will be associated with the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company in the capacity of commercial artist. Mr. Mallard is from Lincolnton, N.C., the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Mallard, of that place, and a young man of agreeable personality and pleasing address. During the war, Mr. Mallard saw considerable service overseas, serving as first lieutenant with the Fifty-second Pioneer Infantry.R. D. Hall, '19, was a visitor on the Hill last Saturday. Dave is now in the cotton business in his hometown, Belmont, N.C. Rev. J. C. Rowan, '09, was elected as one of the Choate preachers for the year 1918-1919. D. G. Caldwell, Jr. ex-'20, was in Davidson a few minutes last Sunday. He is now at the University of North Carolina taking a pre-medical course. F. P. Hall, ex-'19, on furlough from the United States Naval Academy, spent a few minutes in Davidson last Saturday. The latest addition to the faculty of Davidson is O. J. Thies, Jr., '18. Mr. Thies is associate professor of Chemistry. After graduating from Davidson he spent a year in Boston in the study of Chemistry. L. P. Good, '19, has been awarded his degree after his discharge from the Army and has returned to take an M.A. He will have charge of the Chemistry Laboratory. Robert McKay, ex-'16, and Hugh Gray, '18, have been giving valuable assistance in football to Coach Crayton for the past week.

PAGE TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. J. F. Preston and her three daughters, of Korea, spent several days at Mrs. Archibald Currie’s last week. Dr. Martin and Professor Currie spent last weekend at Montreat, traveling through the country in Dr. Martin's car. Misses Lizzie and Mary Young left last Thursday for an extended trip to Philadelphia, Atlantic City, and New York. The Misses Schofield have opened a most attractive tea room on the corner. This delightful little tea room fills a long-felt want in Davidson. Miss Ruth Vardell left Thursday for her home, after a short visit to Miss Eloise Martin. Mrs. Weldon Schenck, mother of L. B. Schenck, is the guest of Mrs. Whitaker. Miss Sallie Schenck is visiting Miss Nancy Grey. Mrs. Shewmake and daughter will join Professor Shewmake the first of October. Miss Rida Jouettman, from Kiang-Yin, China, is spending the week with Mrs. Worth, on Concord Avenue. The time is drawing near when all the young ladies of the town will be leaving for college. Among them are Misses Eloise Martin and Katherine Worth, going to Converse; Miss Elizabeth Grey, going to Queens; Miss Elizabeth Cranford, to Flora McDonald, and Miss Sarah Lingle to Salem College. Mr. and Mrs. John K. Wright and John K., Jr. of Kansas, were guests of the Bachelors last Saturday afternoon. They were accompanied from Charlotte by Mrs. J.P. Chalmers and Miss Bessie Chalmers.

WHO'S IN FAVOR OF A LYCEUM PROGRAM.

This fall everything points to a college year like we used to have in antebellum days. The best features of the old college activities will be retained while others not worthy of past war activities will be thrown aside. Davidson in years past has been able to get a real clean and live lyceum program on the Hill. The program rendered was always helpful, whether it was classical or of a lighter nature. Aside from the pleasure viewpoint, it was for the betterment of the student body. With the live student body we have this year we should by all means have a good lyceum. Fellows, if you talk it up we ought to have one. Think about it. It's up to you.

A. Foil at drill: "Gimme room, boys; he’s going to give about-face."

Famous Bill: Hohenzollern. Of a cap. Dun. Greenback. Hodgin.

WANTED—An instructor in penmanship. Apply to A. L. Currie, Louisiana.

THE ALUMNI WHO HAVE BEEN IN THE SERVICE.

The Library of Davidson College has tried to get a list of all our College men who have been in service during the European war. Please send in at once the date of your enlistment, a record of your service, and the date of your discharge so that our record may be accurate and complete. So far we have a list of over 650, but it is neither complete nor correct.

Some write verses for fortune, While others are striving for fame. A number compose for Soph English And what they turn out is quite lame.

Better Service, Better Work Model Steam Laundry Co.

Love lyrics long have been written But only a few have remained. The songs of the fight are unnumbered And the authors of numbers unnamed.

Laundry called for By Friday nights. W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents No. 30 and 26 Chambers

Disturb thyself not, gentle reader, For we are not entering the race, But something has got to be written To fill up this little space.

True Office Companions Standard and National Desks. Taylor and Sykes Chairs. Art Metal Files and Light Weight Safes. Shaw-Walker Files and Filing Systems. A Successful Looking Office is a Real Business asset. We have the equipment to make your office look successful.

Owen City Printing Company 41 and 16 East Fourth Street Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

OUR FALL SHOWING of clothes for young men embodies every essential which constitutes clothing quality Knox and Stetson Hats, Edwin Clapp Shoes, Manhattan Shirts, etc. Mail orders have our prompt attention.

MELLON’S 8-10 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PEPSI-COLA - Stimulating Exhilarating