- mi | BATS OFF TO THE BAND. @ aad & JAVIL SONIAR' |r Vol. VII. FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1919. No. 12 Tar Heel Presbyterians State Union of Student Seniors Reveal Su Expect War Battle from Palmetto Brethren Both Teams Defeated Carolina by One Touchdown—Wildcats in Better Trim Than Usual The Wildcats will play their second and last game on the Hill next Friday afternoon, when Sprunt Field will be the scene of a battle royal between them and the football warriors from the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. The South Carolinians have an unusually strong team this year and have made an enviable record for themselves in their home state. They succeeded in defeating the University of South Carolina by a single touchdown, which was also the margin of Davidson’s victory over the Gamecocks. In a more recent game, they succeeded in flinging a scare into the ranks of Clemson supporters, holding the Tigers to a 19 to 6 score on the latter’s home ground. The Presbyterians have perfected the forward passing game to a high degree and used it with great success in this game. In fact, they came much nearer defeating their opponents than the score would indicate. The Wildcats will probably enter the fray in better condition than they were in for the game with the University of North Carolina. They emerged from that conflict without sustaining any serious injuries and if Jack Black is able to be in the game on Friday, they should be in fine trim for that day’s struggle. At any rate, they will be right there with the old pep and, whatever the lineup, will show the South Carolina Presbyterians what Davidson's fighting spirit is. No line-up of the Presbyterian College is available. The Wildcats will probably line up as follows: L. E., Davis; L. T., Hammett; L. G., Romefelt; C., Brady; R. G., Lafar; R. T., McMaster; R. E., Douglas; Q. B., Spann; R. H. B., Johnston; L. H. B., Black; F. B., McFadden. Polity Club Gets Going—L. P. Good Chosen President Other Officers Elected—New Members to be Taken in Soon Armistice Day was marked in many ways. Not the least of these was a meeting of the International Polity Club of Davidson. New officers were elected and plans laid for aggressive work. During the S. A. T. C. period last year, the work of the club was not pushed as vigorously as in former years. The officers elected on Tuesday plan to again have some interesting and worthwhile meetings. The International Polity Club at Davidson is one of many such clubs in the leading colleges. These clubs are established for the purpose of discussion of relations between the nations of the world, and of ways of promoting peace. Books are supplied from a fund set aside by Andrew Carnegie for the American Association for International Conciliation. Some of the speakers are also paid from this fund. Professor Newton, of the University of London, is expected to address the Davidson Club in December. New officers are: L. P. Good, president; J. P. Taylor, vice-president; M. A. Siske, secretary. An election of new members will be held soon. Volunteers Accept Davidson’s Invitation Annual Conference to be Held Here the Middle of March—Many Delegates of the Fair Sex Expected In response to an invitation issued some two weeks ago by the Volunteer Band on behalf of the student body, the following letter has been received: North Carolina College, Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 10, 1919. My Dear Mr. McClure: I take the greatest of pleasure in accepting the cordial invitation extended to the Student Volunteers to meet at your college next spring. If it is necessary to settle the day now, let us say the second week in March. May I say further that in accepting the invitation I shall expect a large number of the students to register for the conference just as if they were going away to another college. I wish to thank you for the personal interest you have shown and the Student Volunteer Band also. Please express my appreciation to the student body for making the invitation possible. I assure you that we are all looking forward to our visit with you with a great deal of pleasure. Again thanking you, I remain Most sincerely yours, (Signed) Janie Klutz. Miss Klutz is president of the State Union and a live wire in the cause of Student Volunteers. In accepting this invitation, she confers a great honor on Davidson and in accepting the honor Davidson pledges herself to live up to and beyond her reputation to the best of her ability. Of course, such a conference will mean much to our college. Aside from the fact that delegates will be coming from all over the state, there will be worthwhile speakers who in themselves will be an inspiration to all. In the neighborhood of 125 delegates are expected, about one-half of whom will be ladies. This fact is enough to make every true Davidsonian stand behind all efforts to make the event a success. Plans are already in the minds of several regarding ways and means to properly entertain the conference. New features will be worked out and announced in due time. The request now is that every fellow who has a suggestion regarding the plans hand the same in writing to some member of the Volunteer Band. These will be appreciated and carefully considered. Davidson having one of the largest bands in the state, being the logical center from which to reach the colleges in western North Carolina, and being easily reached by rail from practically all other colleges, makes it the logical place for next spring’s conference. Every student should be behind this movement. Let’s make them say that “the 1920 conference at Davidson was the best yet!” Speaking Soon-to-Be Orators to Cover a Wide Expanse of Knowledge Senior Speaking Subjects. The subjects which have been chosen by the seniors for the annual speeches show a digression from past predominant thoughts of war and bolshevism, and tend ratherer toward the problems of our own country. They range all the way from “Ye Grande Old Days” to “infinity,” and Dr. Currie said that they showed more of a tendency toward original thought than toward abstracts of articles gotten from the library. In regard to the standard of speeches presented to him this year, he said that though he had read comparatively a few of those to be given, yet he found no poor ones, quite a majority being fair and medium, and two or three being of very excellent composition.

The following is a partial list of subjects and speakers:
“Our Flag”—R. T. Allison.
“Plumb Plan for Railroads”—S. H. Askew.
“Merchant Marine”—E. R. Bosney.
“Swat the Negro”—E. N. Booker.
“Justice”—L. G. Calhoun.
“Infinity”—D. S. Carwile.
“The Girl We All Are After”—D. M. Chalmers.
“Athletics”—R. R. Craig.
“Southern Literature”—D. P. Douglas.
“The Farmer”—A. L. Foscue.
“Hypnosis as a Fad”—W. E. Hall, Jr.
“The International Nation”—F. P. Hall, Jr.
“Race Problems”—O. J. Hollandsworth.
“The Eagle’s Nest”—R. T. L. Liston.
“Perseverance”—A. D. McArn.
“Stand Up and Fight”—L. L. McAlister.
“Possibilities of Preventive Medicine”—H. R. McConnell.
“A Changed Art”—W. C. Neel.
“Educating the A. E. F.”—L. B. Nichols.
“For the Lack of An Idea”—J. G. Richards, Jr.
“War and World Languages”—A. G. Robinson.
“Does It Pay”—G. D. Sample.
“What’s the Use”—J. E. Sanders.
“The Freedom of the Air”—B. E. Shields.
“Ye Grande Olde Days”—M. A. Siske.
“Co-operative Agriculture”—H. Smith.
“The Doom of Autocracy”—T. H. Spence, Jr.
“The Aftermath”—W. B. Sullivan.
“Geneva, the Millennium City”—P. Taylor.
“Quest Eternal”—F. A. Thomas.
“Pianos”—M. A. Tremain.
“A Man’s Man”—L. L. Wilson.
“Prehistoric Man”—C. W. Worth.
“Patriotism”—H. B. Brown.
“Success”—A. L. Wilson, Jr.

Former Hampden-Sidney Student Enters College
The student body extends a hearty welcome to Eugene McGuire, a new student from Mississippi, who entered College last Friday. McGuire attended Hampden-Sidney College for a short time in the fall of 1917, but feeling it to be his duty, left college to join the Navy. He has been discharged from the service a short time.

Carolina Victor in Gruelling Contest by 10 to 0 Count
Johnson and Hammett Individual Stars for Davidson—Spaugh Consistent Ground-Gainer for Blue and White Eleven—Game Hard Fought All the Way Through

Fighting stubbornly and bitterly, the plucky Wildcats went down in defeat at the hands of Carolina by the score of 10 to 0. The game was without any spectacular offensive playing, but each team displayed a marvelous defense. Time after time the opposing side would break through and throw the aggressors for heavy losses.

The winners took the victory with no haughtiness and were exempt from any jeering remarks, while the plucky losers stuck by the team to the finish and had no excuses to offer for the defeat. To pick out the individual stars would be a hard proposition. Lowe and Spann both ran their respective teams in great style, taking every advantage. Spaugh was the most consistent ground gainer for Carolina, while Johnny Johnson bore the brunt of the Davidson attack.

First Half.
Carolina received the kick and returned the ball to her own 40-yard line. On an exchange of punts and a few successful line plunges, Lowe finally got in a position to attempt a field goal. This he accomplished after eight minutes of play. Carolina 3, Davidson 0. The ball see-sawed up and down mid-field during the remainder of the first quarter. By a successful exchange of punts and a Davidson fumble, Carolina advanced the ball to Davidson's eight-yard line. Here the Red and Black line held and intercepted them and returned the ball yards before being downed.

During the first half Carolina used line plays almost exclusively. Her off-tackle plays always netted substantial gains until the Red and Black goal line was in imminent danger and then she was held for downs. Very few passes were attempted by Carolina. Davidson relied on end runs altogether during the first quarter. However, in the latter part of the second quarter, Spann began to hammer on the line. This proved to be Carolina’s weak point for several times Johnson penetrated the foremost defense on guard and tackle plays.

Davidson launched the line attack at the beginning of the second half and at one time had Carolina on their own 18-yard line. However, on an exchange of punts the advantage was lost and Carolina pulled out of the hole. A strange coincidence connected with the game was that all of the scoring was done by Winston boys attending the university. Lowe booted a neat field goal from the 30-yard line in the first eight minutes of play, while in the final period Spaugh plowed through for a touchdown and Ferrington kicked goal, all three lads being Twin-City representatives.

The game was clean and both teams displayed sportsmanship throughout. With three exceptions, all of the penalties were for off-side. The strain was too great and numerous times players on both sides cracked and were off-side. The rivalry between the Carolina and Davidson stands was very evident, but was always of the true sportsmanly type.

CALENDAR.
Thursday, 4:30—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Thursday night—Bible Class leaders’ meeting.
Friday, 3:00—P. C. vs. Davidson, Sprunt Field.
Friday 7:00—Movies Marguerite Clark in “Goose Girl.”
Saturday, 6:45—Literary Societies.
Sunday morning, 10—Bible Classes, Chapter IX.
Sunday night, 6:15—“Y” meeting; Mr. Knebel to speak.
Monday night—Junior Literary Societies.
Tuesday, 4:30—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Wednesday, 4:30—Seniors vs. Juniors.

P. C. HERE FRIDAY. LAST CHANCE to SEE WILDCATS in ACTION.