6 The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

ful harvest of immorality that is sure to follow some of the fashions of today? If not, I am sure
you will join the crusaders that are lifting up their voices against them, and both by word and deed oppose
them.—B. F. P. P., Harrisburg, Pa.

Proof conclusive that the doughboy thoroughly enjoys straight-from-the-shoulder religion was the trend of a statement made today by Dr. Albert
S. Hawkes, pastor of a Worcester (Mass.) Congregational church, just returned from France.

GOLF CLUB HAS AWAKENED. PLANS GREAT YEAR.

Yes, there is a golf club at Davidson and everybody who is interested in golfing is urged to become a
member. It is a club organized by the faculty and students for the benefit of both. A membership fee of
$5 is charged which goes towards the upkeep of the course and as soon as any help can be secured
all nine holes of the course will be put in first-class condition. If any of the students who are interested
in golfing will see Dr. Arbuckle he will tell you all about the club. A very extensive program is being
arranged with some “eats” in view every now and then. Even if you don't know how to play golf spend
a few dollars for clubs and come out and learn how.

“GETTING” HIS AUDIENCE.

An evangelist who was conducting nightly services announced that on the following evening he would speak on the subject of
“Liars.” He advised his hearers to read in advance the seventeenth chapter of Mark. The next night he arose and
said: “I am going to preach on ‘Liars’ tonight and I would like to know how many read the chapter
I suggested.” A hundred hands were upraised. “Now,” he said, “you are the very persons I want to talk to—there
isn't any seventeenth chapter of Mark.”—Boston Transcript.

TRUE IT IS. (From College Topics).

Isn't it peculiar that the average student spends much money and time at college in order to obtain knowledge yet
rejoices over every cut of the professor and never waits the required five minutes— Knocks the institution, customs, and professors
while at the university and when he goes away wants to fight anyone who says that another place has better
sidewalks than on University avenue. Talks about what a shame it is that the lawn is ragged-looking while he cuts
across a corner of it.

Proof conclusive that the doughboy thoroughly enjoys straight-from-the-shoulder religion was the trend of a statement made today by Dr. Albert
S. Hawkes, pastor of a Worcester (Mass.) Congregational church, just returned from France.

Dr. Hawkes’ assertion is based on the fact that the nine Y. M. C. A. huts in Camp Pontanazen, Brest,
each with a capacity ranging from 1,200 to 2,000, are crowded to the doors on Sundays during the religious services.
“I have seen these buildings so packed,” he said, “that men sat in the rafters, windows—any place they could secure
standing or seating room; in fact, they have even crowded on the platform.”

Dr. Hawkes was director of all musical programs connected with religious services conducted by the Y. M. C. A. at
the big camp. When he began the work of organization there were only two pianists and a song leader. In
two months he had increased this staff to thirty accomplished musicians, soloists, and song leaders, this number increasing with the
demand. In the huge auditorium, with a seating capacity alone of three thousand, he declared that he has seen men
who remained after the mass singing to hear the lecture, leave when the “movies” began. The singing was invariably met
with unbounded enthusiasm. “It was wonderful! An inspiration! Imagine, if you can, more than three thousand full-toned, healthy, male voices
ringing with the notes of a famous anthem. They sang as they fought—with every ounce of energy their American souls
possessed. Popular songs started the program, the words flashed on the screen. The singing service ended with hymns. The finest
speakers obtainable in France were next introduced. After a short, snappy talk soldiers were given the opportunity to consult them.
Hundreds of men have availed themselves of this opportunity—the last one afforded while in military service.”

He believes that this type of welfare work, about which little is known or understood, is the most remarkable and
thorough of any of the multiform ways in which the “Y” served the A. E. F. The soldier loves to
sing when proper facilities and good leaders are afforded, and he appreciates good speakers on religious topics. “The significance of
our work was twofold,” explained the pastor, “First, it brought the Christian gospel before the soldier in a practical, he-man
fashion. Secondly, it showed him at the close of his military career that the Y. M. C. A. stood for
something else besides canteens, recreational, and the various other activities to which he was accustomed at the front.”

PUBLIC MORALS AND PUBLIC DRESS.

Writing recently in a national journal, the people in many parts of the United States are virtually in league with
the profiteers, according to Wil-Liam Mather Lewis, director of the savings division of the treasury department, who has just returned
to Washington after visiting the various federal reserve districts. “A veritable orgy of extravagant buying is going on,” he said.
“The reaction from the careful use of moneys during war time is widespread and disturbing. Retailers are securing goods from
jobbers without arguing about prices, if they can only be assured of immediate delivery. They know their customers will scramble
for the goods, regardless of cost. Thus, with an abnormal demand and a limited output, nothing else can be expected
than high prices. It is a natural, though deplorable, that profiteers abound.

“The people must return to the policy of careful buying and regular saving if they wish to help the situation.
The Treasury Department, in order to combat this artificial situation, is intensifying and speeding up its thrift campaign. Statements on
the principles of finance and the laws of investment and budgetary are being brought to workers in factories; to farmers;
to business and professional men, and members of women’s organizations by means of printed publicity and the spoken word. A
nationwide attack upon swindlers who are persuading people to dispose of their Liberty Bonds and War Savings Stamps is also
being inaugurated.

“Through New England, savings and thrift organizations already are exerting their combined efforts to combat increased cost of the necessities
of life. Saving directors and hundreds of officers of savings societies are taking the lead in disseminating information as to
fair prices. In their communities, they are aiding the determination and publication of fair prices and in curbing unjust profits.
They are following the plan of campaign recently outlined by Governor W. P. G. Harding of the Federal Reserve Board,
to promote regular and efficient work to increase production and ensure reasonable economics to devote that production to necessities rather
than extravagances or luxuries. Steps are being taken to ensure similar efforts throughout the other Federal Reserve Districts.”

A mother said, “There is never going to be a winning fight against vice in the United States of America
until women face the fact that present styles of dress, or to speak more accurately, ‘undress,’ decreed largely by men
designers and manufacturers, are absolutely inimical to purity of thought and action. It should not surprise us to find lax
morals among our young boys and girls when mature women go to the extremes that georgette and similar fabrics have
carried them.”

The University of Illinois has published a circular, entitled, “Fashion: Its Use and Abuse.” Under the head “Decency” it says:
“Decency is fundamental in dress. Waists so thin that a woman must shave in order to wear them are not
decent. Evening dress described in our fashion magazines as not having much above the waist and very little below are
not rare. Why should a woman desire to show her dress shields and underwear to the public?”

This circular says much more that is plain truth. Why should skirts be worn so tight and so devoid of
underskirts that she reveals her figure in terrible distinctness? Why should garments be so thin as to reveal the bare
body beneath or as to bring limbs distinctly into outline when the wearer steps between a man and the shining
sun? Christian mothers, are you willing to be in any degree responsible for the awful consequence?

PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL (CHARLOTTE'S SHOW PLACE)
THE BEST OF OPERATING ROOMS
70 Private Rooms, With and Without Baths; Seclusive Obstetrical Department; Men's, Women’s and Children’s Wards; Well-Equipped X-Ray, Bacteriological Laboratories and
Hydrotherapy
A TWELVE ACRE GROVE

Do you know what I admire in the world? It is the powerlessness of material force. Sooner or later the
sword is conquered by the idea.—Napoleon Bonaparte.

Keep your fears to yourself, but share your courage with others.—R. L. Stevenson.

C. F. Allen, ex-'19, was a visitor in Davidson last week. He will soon resume his studies at the Columbia
Theological Seminary.

Brown’s Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

Announcement...
We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a
Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs
for all classes of commercial work, such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors.
Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
