The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, S. C.

Faculty:
THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary, Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church Polity
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution
WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology

Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A. H. McKINNEY, D.D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D.

Our most progressive Theological Seminary: Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church.

PRESIDENT, Columbia, S. C.

The all-year-round soft drink for college men, business men, professional men, men of sports—baseball, football, golf, tennis, shooting, riding. For everybody, everywhere, the year ’round, Bevo is hale refreshment for wholesome thirst—an invigorating soft drink. Ideal for the athlete or the man in physical or mental training—good to train on and gain on. Healthful and appetizing. It must be ice cold.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH
ST. LOUIS
Serve it cold

The Commissary
EVERYTHING ATHLETIC
Have your racket restrung
L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.
Specialty: Matthews & Wilson
See me for your feeds
Managers 16 Chambers

JITNEY SERVICE BETWEEN MOORESVILLE, DAVIDSON AND CHARLOTTE

SCHEDULE:
Leave Mooresville 1.40 P.M. 6.00 P.M.
Leave Davidson 2.00 P.M. 6.20 P.M.
Arrive Charlotte 3.30 P.M. 7.40 P.M.
Leave Charlotte 4.00 P.M. 11.00 P.M.
Arrive Davidson 5.20 P.M. 12.20 A.M.
Arrive Mooresville 5.40 P.M. 12.40 A.M.

SUNDAY:
Leave Mooresville 9.00 A.M.
Leave Charlotte 8.00 P.M.

CAMP GREENE TRANSIT COMPANY
200 Com. Bank Bldg
Charlotte, N.C.

Literary New Miniature Vaudeville Staged in Eu Society

Freshmen Demonstrate Their Extemporaneous Literary Ability

Last Saturday night witnessed some interesting sights and sounds in the old Eumenean Society hall. More than fifty Freshmen had signified their desire to become members of the society, and this was the night appointed for them to show themselves worthy of such an honor. The initiation was thoroughly enjoyable (to upper classmen) from the time when the Freshmen, imitating all things from wild beasts to classic dancers, entered the hall until the meeting was declared adjourned by the president. The reception committee had prepared a program which permitted many of the Freshmen to exhibit talents, hitherto unsuspected by themselves. Budding orators, pugilists, singers, and dancers were all given an opportunity to perform.

Naturally, speaking held first place on the program. The debates were so interesting and hotly contested, however, that other forms of diversion had to be resorted to in order to relieve the tension. The first event of the evening was a debate, “Resolved: That Davidson is a Greater Commercial Center Than New York City” by Messrs. Denniston and Ogden. The affirmative, having the best side of the question, was easily victorious in this encounter. Following the debate, a declamation, “Why I Am a Freshman,” was delivered by Mr. Meacham. This gentleman made it unanimous by arguing that he was a Freshman because he couldn't be anything else.

Immediately after this declamation, a terrifying series of boxing matches were staged. So bitter was the feeling displayed that the boxers had to be blindfolded in order that they might not permanently disable one another. Blows were struck which, had they reached their mark, might well have felled Jack Dempsey. Liston and Cummings, the referees, were several times knocked even more insensible than usual.

The next debate, “Resolved: That ice is not what it's cracked up to be,” was rather unsatisfactory. This was followed by several musical numbers. Bethea and Toney rendered entirely new words to what they supposed to be the tune of “Home, Sweet Home.” Buchanan, being called on for a solo, sang that touching old anthem, “How Green I Am!” This song struck a sympathetic chord in the hearts of the other Freshmen who could not refrain from joining in the chorus.

Messrs. Houghton and Guan now argued the query, “Resolved: That My Girl is Better Looking Than Yours.” Although Houghton won this contest, when he appealed to the judgment of the president, who had seen a picture of his girl, it is understood that he did not come out so well in the debate which he afterwards staged with J. C. McCaskill. After a few paper fights, Mr. J. D. Sloan, the Freshman contortionist, was called on to render the Hula Hula twist. With the close of this number it was realized that...the audience could stand no more excitement, the Freshmen took the oath of allegiance, and the president declared the initiations at an end.

HOW IT FELT.

During a brawl in a Chicago resort an Irishman got poked in the eye with a stick, and immediately started proceedings against the offender. “Come now,” said the magistrate, “you do not really believe he meant to put your eye out?” “No, I don’t,” said the Celt, “but I do believe he tried to put it farther in.”

SHE TOILS NOT.

“Why didn’t you come for the wash yesterday, Liza?” “I ain’t workin’ no moh, Miss Elsie, since I jined de lodge. I’se a lily now.” “What do you mean?” “I's jined de Lilies of de Fiel’ Lodge of de Daughters of Solomon, and de Story, J. R. ‘lilies of de fiel’ toils not, neither do dey spin,” —Life.

Spence and Freshmen Have Big Time in the Society Many Old and New Men Received Literary Baptism

The Phi Society held its first regular meeting of the year Saturday night, September 13. After the devotional exercises, conducted by C. G. Long and the usual reading of the minutes, the usual program was done away with and the meeting was “turned over” to the Freshmen and Spence. Before the doors were opened to the Freshmen the following old men were admitted to the society without “formal” initiation: C. K. Brown, ’21; Robt. McLeod, '23; W. W. Roberts, '22; L. B. Nimmocks, '22, and F. V. Long, ’21.

The house et al. was then turned over to the invitation committee composed of H. Spence, chief bushwhacking artist; J. A. Poteat, ex-officio, Little ’Possum, and E. N. Booker, high deputy executioner. The aforesaid gentlemen induced the Freshmen to dress up, dress down—and undress before entering. What a procession it was that ran the gauntlet of dozens of gentle yet persistent “persuaders” on each side of the aisle. After the Freshmen had erected themselves at angles of forty-five degrees up in the “Amen” corner, President Chalmers announced that we had with us an old friend who would now address us. At this juncture, Dave Hale, ‘8, made his appearance and such a speech he gave us. Well, we know the Freshmen will remember it four years at least.

Spence now informed the guests that he desired their names with their true loves in what he termed his “memory book”—and such names as were given! Well, would stump even R. T. Liston (of the Eu.) They ran the distance all the way from “Sally Ox” to “Joan of Arc.” We must say these gentlemen are very truthful or else great lawyers. Covington now elucidated on the question “Why I Take R. O. T. C.” He seemed to know of forty-nine perfectly good reasons but could think of but one (censured). Brown then helped him along with some of his ideas on the subject. But for brevity in making his speech, Covington has ‘em all beat, and we give him extra excellent.

The series of love letters written by Thames, Gibson and others were “splenducious,” providing you think molasses edible. If they ever get to be as convincing speakers as they are proficient “courters,” well, just look out “Sister Society.” The new men then honored the audience with some “smiles,” after which the president took up the good work and impressed upon them the gravity of the situation, handing out constitutions with instructions to “Read in two weeks.” The Freshmen were again made uncomfortable when the supervisors got busy, but Spence—that boon to Freshmen—again came to their rescue and saved the day. After the “thanking” the society adjourned until its next meeting.

The Freshmen initiated were: W. E. Covington, W. F. Redding, J. W. Baldwin, J. D. Bernhardt, A. V. Gibson, C. E. Hodgin, M. P. Calhoun, Chas. Ingram, S. M. Davis, C. Furman, W. P. Kimzey, J. C. Deaver, J. P. Booth, P. J. Hall, W. P. Brown, F. C. Thames, S. R. Sloan.

PROGRAM FOR SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPT. 21, 1919.

Resolved: The League of Nations Should Be Adopted by the U. S. Without Amendment.

Affirmative: Banner, Wool, Tufts.
Negative: Tremaine, Lowrance, Boney.
Declamation, Brown, F. L.
Extemporaneous Debate, Hill, H. A.

PLAY TENNIS

Spalding Tennis Equipment: Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog, A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

“THE COMMISSARY”

The Raleigh Cafe For Ladies and Gentlemen Best Dining Service in the City TOM MATTHEWS, Prop. West Trade St. CHARLOTTE

Brady Printing, Statesville, N. C. The College Printers If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT. ORDERS SOLICITED

Shoe Repairing For neatness and durability send your shoes to the Shu Fixery, Charlotte, N. C. W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents 30 and 36 Chambers

Belk Bros. CHARLOTTE, N. C. COMPLETE LINE OF College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices