The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
D. W. Roberts ....... Editor-in-Chief
J. F. Cassell .. Managing Editor
R. Boulware, Jr... Assignment Editor
B. Schenck Athletic Editor
C. McCaskill........Alumni Editor

The Staff:
N. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

Management:
C. J. Mathews .... Business Manager
L. L. McAllister .. Circulation Manager
A. L. Currie..... Assistant Manager
C. H. Long...... Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson..... Assistant Manager
Mitchell..... Assistant Manager

Reporter's Staff:
S. H. Askew
R. R. Craig
T. H. Spence
M. A. Tremain
J. R. Walker
A. M. Mitchell
W. P. Cunning
J. M. Richards
J. P. Price
M. R. Doubles
O. M. Dugger, Jr.

1920:
S. H. Askew
T. H. Spence

1921:
J. R. Walker
W. P. Cumming
A. M. Mitchell

1922:
O. M. Dugger, Jr.
J. R. Price
M. R. Doubles
J. M. Richards

Subscription, $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editorial:

Three smiles make one grin,
Three grins make one laugh.
Three laughs make one happy.

BLUE RIDGE

Among the six places scattered over the United States where the Y. M. C. A. holds conferences for college men,
Blue Ridge in many ways surpasses them all. High up in the “Land of the Sky” away from the distractions
of city and seashore, the students and professors of the South will gather for recreation, study, and spiritual growth.

In past years Davidson has been content to stand aside while other Southern colleges stepped in and enjoyed the many
advantages which this delightful place afforded. Georgia Tech and Clemson have been the leaders at former conferences. They have built
cottages and have yearly sent large delegations to represent them. Clemson has already secured twenty-six delegates and Ga. Tech has
said that she will not be satisfied until her delegation reaches forty. In the recent Western Conference, the University of
California sent ninety-nine. If these colleges and institutions can do this, Davidson certainly can send at least twenty-five delegates this
summer.

Here is an opportunity, Fellows, to back up your Alma Mater. The conference will last only ten days, June 13-22,
and everyone who can should not miss this splendid opportunity to back his Alma Mater and at the same time
improve himself. On to Blue Ridge with the Greater Davidson spirit! You have it! Don’t let it die!

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 30, 1919

IS IT EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEAKING OR...?

The final regular meetings for the year 1918-1919 on Saturday night. The work of these societies has not been up
to their standard of former years. This can no doubt be traced to the many interruptions which have come in
to prevent those who participate in the regular meetings. The outcome of this has been the development of several expert
extemporaneous expositors who have monopolized every program. They have no doubt received great good from their weekly performances, but as
a result of their over-eagerness, the more inexperienced members have taken back seats and interest has flagged until hardly half
of the society attends the regular meetings.This abuse should certainly be remedied if the societies are to hold their position
of importance among the student activities at Davidson. We are building a Greater Davidson and this is one of the
many ways in which we can help.

A WORD FROM DR. H. H. HORNE—A GREAT MAN AT BLUE RIDGE.

OH! BOY! Do you know where you should go for ten days this Summer's vacation? Blue Ridge, N. C. Why?
Because it is where the Southern students go for their Summer Conference. You will enjoy there the ten greatest days
of your life so far. You will meet students from all other Southern States. You will see what several hundred
college men are like in a mass. You will have special group meetings of your own. You will hear and
meet some of the leading college spirits of the country, like Robert E. Speer. You will know better what to
do with yourself next year. You will be put in touch with the kind of a world we are now
living in. You will have all afternoons free for social pleasure and recreation. You will see the finest mountain scenery
east of the Rockies. You can experience the cool refreshment of a plunge in a mountain pool. You can talk
with the leader of the Christian Students of the South—Dr. W. D. Weatherford. You can see the valleys of life
from a mountain top. You can compare your school spirit with that of a dozen other schools. You will see
college and school stunts pulled off in great shape. You will get plenty of fare as wholesome as the market
affords. You will be served at the table by Southern college girls. You will respond to the strong appeals on
every side to your best nature. You will give forth the best that is in you, and perhaps surprise yourself.
You will be glad all the days of your life.

THE WAR IS OVER But We Continue to Deliver THE BEST FRESH MEAT PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED White’s Market Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Not a little cost, Hardly by prayer or tears, Shall we recover the road we lost In the drugged and
doubting years. Then praise the Lord Most High Whose strength hath saved us whole, Who bade us choose that the
Flesh should die! And not the living Soul! Kipling in “The Choice.”

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

IF YOU SHOT HIM Come In and CELEBRATE If You Got Shot Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT CAKES-CANDIES-DRINKS COLLEGE JEWELRY Watches and Clocks, Kodaks Film and Developing W. S. HENDERSON JEWELER

Booe’s Market Fresh Meats At All Times

The race is not always to the swift or the battle to the strong, but the bank account is always
to the truly thrifty. Buy W. S. S.

Subscribe for The Davidsonian Follow the Boys through all the Athletic Games, Keep in touch with the Alumni. Subscription $1.25
per year. Send in your subscription at once to the BUSINESS MANAGER The Davidsonian
