THE 'son, March 1, 1918, in the Artillery Corps. Beginning there he was constantly on the move, going to Camp
Merrit, N.J., on May 8; leaving Merrit, May 21, he arrived at Brest, France, May 31. From July 18 until
August 6 Culbreth was in active duty on the Aisne-Marne offensive; from August 6 until August 18 in the Oise-Aisne
offensive; August 18 until September 10, on active duty in the celebrated Chateau-Thierry sector; September 12 until September 26, Culbreth
was in the Meuse-Argonne offensive. This completed his actual series of combat. However, he was not free from active duty
but was placed in the Army of Occupation and arrived in Germany the 14th of December, remaining there until the
14th of July, '19.

* * *

Junior Society.

Debate
Affirmative
Reid, R. M.
Richards, W. J.
Sorrells, G. B.
Roberts, G. L.
Smith, H. H.
Roddey, J.
Sydenstricker, R. E.

Declamations
Negative
Patrick, B.C.

Culbreth left Brest and arrived at Newport News on the 3rd day of August. He was sent to Camp Lee
and was discharged August 10, with the rank of corporal. Indeed, there are not many who have seen as much
and such a varied service as Culbreth, and to him is due much respect and honor especially by Davidson men.

* * *

Phi Society.

Owing to the inclemency of the weather and other prevailing circumstances the Phi Society held no regular debate last Saturday
night. At a short business meeting a motion was made and carried that an extension of one week be given
in paying the fall term dues. The Fresh-Soph declamation contest was announced to be held Saturday night, December 6. Installation
of new officers will take place at the next meeting.

Campusisms.

Among those spending the weekend off the Hill were Barringer, Bray, Brown, E. H., F. L., R. P. and C.
K., Brawley, Carr, J. R. Cornelius, Duncan, J. M. Dunlap, J. M. Gaston, Gentry, Guthery, Hines, C. E. Hodgin, Holtzhouser,
Howie, Huffstetler, J. G. Johnston, F. C. Long, Lowrance, McFain, J. R. McKeldin, W. C. Moore, Morton, Parks, Rankin, Redding,
W. F. Roddey, C. Robinson, R. S. Robinson, Sprunt, T. H. Wilson, Wool and Wooten.

Well Prepared Program Rendered at Meeting of Blue Pencil Club.

The Blue Pencil Club held its regular meeting on Wednesday, the 12th. The program was well gotten up and equally
well carried out. Among the interesting features of the meeting were the following articles: The Difference in Journalism in England
and in America, by Askew; A Poem, by Hawkins; Short Story, by Hamilton; Book Review, The Heart of Nanison, by
A. L. Wilson. Bolshevism in the College, by McArn; and a number of others. This was an unusually interesting meeting
as all members were present and all articles were well prepared. After the regular meeting light refreshments were enjoyed by
the club.

W. P. Cumming spent Saturday in Charlotte.

The Infirmary had but three patients last week, James Cavanaugh, H. L. Cullum and M. O. Dantzler.

A Little Light on Our A. E. F. Students.

Hollandsworth, C. J., '20. Hollandsworth enlisted at Roanoke, Va., December 15, 1917, in the U.S. Marines and was sent to
Paris Island for training. On March 1, 1918, he was sent to Philadelphia and on the 13th of that month
sailed for France, landing at Brest two weeks later. At this place transfer was made from the Second Replacement Battalion
to the Fifth Regiment, Second Division, U.S. Marines. Soon after this he was sent to the front, where he saw
action at Chateau Thierry, Soissons, Port a’Mousson, St. Mihiel, Champagne, and several other engagements. The Fifth Regiment marched to the
Rhine, December, 13, 1918, and served in the Army of Occupation until May 2, 1919. Hollandsworth and others from the
Army of Occupation were selected for the composite regiment of Marines called “Pershing’s Own.” This regiment took part in the
victory parades at Paris and London, and returned with General Pershing on the transport U.S.S. Leviathan, the first part of
September. Hollandsworth took part in the Victory parades in New York and Washington just after landing, and received his discharge
September 25, 1919.

FARRAR CAREFULLY CHOSEN at the Marine's Barracks, Washington, D.C.

REGULAR Appropriate Musical Selections Properly Rendered PRICES Ice Cold H. B. Calbreth, ‘21. Adults - 15¢ Hear The Strand’s H.
B. Culbreth. a member of the class of ‘21, certainly did not fail to do his “bit” for Uncle Sam
in the great Pacific as a student in 1917, but on account of the war was unable to complete his
course. Culbreth enlisted at Camp Jack- son. Finally, on the 21st day of July, Matthews and Mitchell were in.

Tremendous Popularity Next Monday and Tuesday BEWITCHING GLADYS BROCKWELL “BROKEN COMMANDMENTS” Next Wednesday and Thursday AMERICA'S FOREMOST OPERATIC STAR With
Lou Tellengen as the leading man Next Friday and Saturday BEAUTIFUL BESSIE LOVE IN THE VERY UNUSUAL PICTURE STORY “OVER
THE GARDEN WALL” EACH DAY

DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

A Little Nonsense Now and Then is Relished by the Best of Men

M. KIRSCHBAUM Maker and Renovator of Hats and Furs “We are glad to welcome ‘The Davidsonian’ to our desk. The
students of Davidson are to be congratulated upon their fine paper.” —An Exchange. Charlotte, N. C. A. M. Mitchell, Agt.
“The Davidsonian this year is just fine and I want to congratulate the staff on their good work. Keep it
up."—From Union Seminary.

Thirsty? Just Whistle DO IT NOW

It was the first time I had seen one of your college papers and let me tell you what I
have even dared to tell my own college, and it is that “The Davidsonian” is the best college weekly I
have ever looked through, and you know, we think the — is pretty good.—An Alumnus of Another College. “The Davidsonian’
is a publication worthy of note, being a five-column paper of eight pages. It carries quite a variety of news,
and is a paper which the college could boast of."—An Exchange. “Please accept this small check to help out. I
can hardly tell you how much we who are at home enjoy reading about the college. We have particularly enjoyed
the sketches of the professors connected with the college.”—A Parent. “And in closing allow me to say that the present
sheet more than justifies the faith of the paper’s founders and is indeed a credit to the college.”—One of the
Founders.

We thank you.

PIPE’S the thing with men. Under the spell of WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved. The specially seasoned
genuine French briar breaks in sweet and mellow. It will not crack or burn through. The WDC Triangle on the
bowl is your guarantee. Ask any good dealer. Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

Mrs. W. W. Wood Returns. Prof. W. W. Wood left for Statesville last Saturday, where he spent the week-end with
Mr. and Mrs. Pennington. Later he was joined there by Mrs. Wood, William Woodhall, Jr., and Miss Price, Mrs. Wood's
sister. They arrived at Davidson Monday and will occupy the Alexander house, on Concord road, which has been recently renovated
by the college. Dr. W. J. Martin returned Saturday after a several days’ visit to the Synods of Georgia and
Florida.

Nationally Known in No Time

Bevo has become the best friend of food and fellowship. Drink it for its purity and deliciously appetizing flavor. At
the soda fountain or with your meals. Photoplays, Featuring Stars of Popularity “FLAME OF THE DESERT” Bevo must be served
cold. ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS
