The DAVIDSONIAN, April 9, 1919

Dr. Clayberg Delivers Instructive Address
The Talk Greatly Enjoyed by Aesculapian Club.

On last Thursday night, the Aesculapian Club had the pleasure of hearing an address from Dr. Harold D. Clayberg. The subject of Dr. Clayberg’s exposition was that of Heredity and Genetics. He began by differentiating between the soma and the germ-plasm and reminding the club of the well-known principle of the continuity of the aforesaid germ-plasm. From this, he drew the deduction that every one of us has a bit of old Adam in him. He then went on to explain the metamorphosis of the ova, bringing out the maturation of the zygote, cell mitosis, and the fertilization of the zygote by the spermatozoa. He told of the division of the chromatin in the nucleus and stated that scientists have shown these chromatic threads to be the seat of all our inherited characteristics. His talk was concluded by a short elaboration of the Mendelian laws and the dominant and recessive genes. A concrete illustration of these laws shows that twenty-five percent of the daughters of a bald-headed man will be bald-headed also. The club enjoyed the lecture very much and all got a much clearer conception of the need for eugenics.

NEW ERA IN Y. M. C. A. WORK INAUGURATED
(Continued from page 1)

Two main objects in view. First of all, it tries to bring to every student the knowledge of the living Christ, and to imbue him with the ideals of this Christ. Second, the Y. M. C. A. offers an opportunity to everyone to serve. Whatever may be your sphere of ability—social, literary, or musical, the Y. M. C. A. offers you a chance to develop it. Which would give you more pleasure, the honor roll or leading someone to Christ? The debating team, or being the successful leader of an earnest Bible class? Winning a “D,” or making the mill children happy? Of course, the honor roll and the debating team and making the “D” are part of a normal Christian's life. But put first things first. “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you.”

COOTIE DIRGE, (They Go Wild, Simply Wild Over Me)
They go wild, simply wild over me,
Every night how they crawl all over me,
They're thin and gray and flat,
And no matter where I’m at,
The small ones, the tall ones,
They crawl right up my back.
And the seams of my shirt seem to be
Just the place where they like the best to be.
Every night they come to dine,
In an undershirt of mine.
They go wild, simply wild, over me.
Mac Weekly.

DID YOU EVER HAVE IT?
(Tune: “I feel all gone to pieces this morning.”)
“What's the reason?”
“I suppose because I am broke.”

ADVICE TO BARGAIN HUNTERS
Buy your thermometers now, indications are that they will be much higher next summer.

The young earthquake last Friday night was only “Babe” Sherrill being dumped.

The baseball game with Oak Ridge had to be called off last Friday.

They had their room cleaned last week, seven of these mornings.

The copy in the library at present (Saturday, April 5) is dated March 20.

Toll out, oh bell, thy mournful lay yourself, without hesitation.
The Peanut Parcher| Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

The first signs of Bolshevism were evident on the campus last Tuesday morning.

EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR

What the Rumpleites took to be a ED. MELLON CO.

Due to the scarcity of bathing suits

Latest Dope From Peace Conference

Your Nation is judged by its representative. Your representative is judged by his appearance. His appearance is judged from his clothes. Get that Storrs-Schaefer Look—neat and nifty.

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES No. 13 CHAMBERS

The scenery of “Flo-Flo” is reported to have been the most beautiful of any show that has been in Charlotte for some time.

“Runt” Carmichael and “Sloot” For- Ad up last

The sun, like a great many of the boys, finds it pretty hard to get up at Even Life seems to have deserted us.

Procrastination surely bringeth sorrow. For he who studieth not tonight: getteth shot tomorrow.

But I shall ride sick call today.

Mental efficiency test: If you read this column over and enjoy it, grade

The Camp Greene Transit Company will operate a 22-Passenger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte commencing Tuesday, April 1, 1919, on the following schedule, daily except Sunday:

Leave Mooresville,
Goodman Drug Store 1:40 P.M. 6:00 P.M.
Davidson,
White Drug Co. 2:00 6:20
Huntersville,
Post Office 2:30 6:50
Arrive Charlotte,
Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 3:30 7:50
Leave Charlotte,
Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 4:00 P.M. 11:00 P.M.
Post Office 5:00 12:00
Davidson,
White Drug Co. 5:30 12:30 A.M.
Arrive Mooresville,
Goodman Drug Store 5:50 12:30

This gives the people along this route the opportunity to attend the shows and other amusements in Charlotte and return home that night. Your patronage solicited.

Respectfully,
Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com. Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Campus Conversation.

Bob Allison (to Baxter, who was burning dead grass on the campus): “Baxter, don't you know you will soon have that as black as you are?”
Baxter: “That’s right, boss, but it will soon come out just as you are.”

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

But when this love grew warmer
And they learned the joy of the kiss,
The Rexall Store WHITE DRUG CO.
They knocked out all the spaces
And sat close like this,

When first he came to see her
He showed a timid heart.
And when the lights were low
They sat this far

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.