4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Campus Editor
C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Library Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
B. N. BOOKER
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
R. T. L. LISTON
J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. CRAIG
R. BITZER
B. B. BREITENHIRT
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
J. M. GILMER
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. P. PRICE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDS
C. SANDERS
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Additional reporters for this issue are: J. T. Wilkes, Jr.; A. C. Ormond, Jr.; J. W. Mauze, T. W. Ogden, A. P. Ormond, C. B. Sanders, A. D. King.

Business Manager
Assistant Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Managers
W. A. Gamble, Jr.

This being the last issue of The Davidsonian before the holidays, we hope to be the first to wish you a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.

Whenever a good, hard rain is needed all that is necessary is to plan a reception.

A vote of thanks from the Senior class goes out to the man who left the Bible stand on the chapel rostrum.

Dear Santa Claus:
I have been a good little boy, please leave in my stocking my mid-term report.
Yours hopefully,

Upperclassmen:
SENIOR SPEAKING.

When the first speaker began to deliver his Senior speech Friday afternoon there were 22 persons in the audience. When the last speaker finished his, Saturday afternoon, there were 44. Between these two times the attendance ranged anywhere from 20 up to 100 or perhaps more, but never enough to fill the last 12 rows in the hall. And yet complaints have been heard that the speeches were not up to standard and did not exhibit sufficient preparation. The writing of a speech worthy of the occasion requires a great deal of thought and hard work. To the unaccustomed speaker it is the cause of much worry and anxiety. It detracts from the effectiveness of his regular work and serves to demoralize him for weeks in advance. All this could be overlooked if the good results would amply justify it.

Either the audience is small because the speeches are uninteresting or the speeches are poor because the attendance is never large. Doubtless the two work interchangeably. Anyhow the result is the same, there is no incentive for the Seniors to take interest and consequently the outsiders feel the same way. At the first two speakings there was not even any musical program to break the monotony, nothing but 12 consecutive speeches on various subjects, which as a whole could hardly hold the attention and interest of the average listener. We are not arguing in favor of abolishing Senior speaking entirely, but the quality of the oratory and the outside interest manifested can hardly justify the continuation of the custom as it now stands. Either the program should be more attractive, or the speakers should be required to do better, or the whole thing should be done away with. Very few men will of their own accord put their best into a speech to be delivered to a handful of people on the back row, and still fewer people will, aside from a sense of duty, listen to 12 speeches without any interruption. Some change is necessary and should be made before the next oratorical exercises.

THE APPROACHING CRISIS.

The most trying time of our whole collegiate year is now fast approaching. For some it will decide whether the term’s work will be a success or failure, whether the report sent out will be favorable or will be a disappointment to the parents and folks at home. A good term’s work can be seriously marred by the neglect of a few days, or the failures of the past can be partially made up by a spurt of hard work. It is for the good of every man that he should do his best during this period.

Very often when there is a day or two on which a man has no exam the tendency is to loaf and while away the time. For a short diversion this may be all right, but in seeking your recreation be careful that it does not conflict with the work of others. Congregating in a man’s room where he is trying to study is demoralizing and may be the source of future trouble for him. The work of a whole term may have been well covered and pretty well fixed in a man’s head but unless he collects the main ideas and learns the essentials accurately it will avail him little in the crucial test. In these important days it would be a great thing if everyone could settle down, and putin some good, earnest work, at the same time showing consideration for the other man who is also trying to do his best. Surely.

OPEN FORUM
(Editor's Note—Anyone wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

OUR CAMPUS
Davidson men everywhere are proud of their institution and the things connected with it. It is perhaps one of the most beautiful in the South, considering the small amount of money expended on it. There are very few men on the campus at present who would willfully, in the sight of Davidson’s friends, do anything that would injure the natural beauty of the grounds in any way. Yet each dormitory is doing things which do not by any means help the general appearance of things. Most noticeable among them are the paths leading from Chambers to Elliott’s store, Rumple to Phi Hall, and the ground between Georgia and Chambers. There are possibly two causes for this. The first is carelessness on our part, and in the second place there is need of a regular walk. Thus the injury can be remedied. If it is purely carelessness, we might be more thoughtful for the campus at the time of the year when it is at its worst. On the other hand, we all realize that a straight line is the shortest one between two points. If the question is considered in this light, an extra walk would solve the problem. If you care for Davidson and have an idea on this question, give expression to it.

Fresh—“Gee, with the ‘hen folks’ in the writing line.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Backward turn backward, oh Time in your flight
And show us a maiden dressed proper and right.
We are so weary of the switch and the rat,
Huge puffs and Marcells and such things as that,
Wads of her hair in a horrible pile
Stacked on the head to a mile.
Something is wrong with the girlies we see,
Oh, show us the maids as they used to appear:
Give us the girls that we once knew of
Whose curls did not come from a hairdressing store;
Maidens who dressed with a sensible view,
Just as your mothers intended them to,
Give me a girl with a will of her own
Who does not fall for each fad that is known;
Feminine styles getting fiercer each year,
Oh, show us the girls as they used to appear.

ON WOMEN IN GENERAL
(The following bits of philosophy are adopted from our Exchanges.)

There are two kinds of dangerous women—blondes and brunettes.

1st Senior—“How is an elephant like a woman?”
2nd Senior—“I don't know, I’m sure.”
1st Senior—“They’re good to look at but not to own.”

TACT
In pompous tones he broached his love
Called her his “pet” and “turtle dove.”
The maiden gasped, too hot to speak,
Then, scornfully, “I like your cheek!”
But I, who scarce knew how to talk,
Just kissed her on the campus walk.
She blushed a bit, then, very meek,
She whispered, “My, I like your cheek.”

“Cold dear?”
“‘Bout to freeze.”
“Want my coat, dear?”
“Just the sleeves.”
—Highland Echo

Flattery is not the only thing that turns a woman's head. Peroxide is sometimes the cause.

Fair Visitor—“I have fallen in love so many times since I have been up here, that now I don’t know when I'm in love.”

She—“Do you like peaches?”
He—“Yes, let's get married.”
She—“If you insist upon knowing, there are two reasons why I can’t marry you.”
Jim—“And they are?”
She—“Yourself and another fellow.”

THESE GIRLS DO BE FAST
She has the cutest little way
Of telling you
The stupidest things
But who minds that?

The old boy who used to plead with the girl’s father for hours at a time now has a daughter who says: “Give it up, I’m getting popular.”

Soph—“Anybody can see this near Christmas.”
George; the old man is gaining on us.

(Continued on page 10)

DON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it’s a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS