What the “Y” Has Done for Davidson: Wildcat’s Biggest Asset Has Won Recognition from All Over

A Brief Outline of the Year’s Work. Success Due Largely to Mr. Miles.

Under the leadership of our livewire secretary, Mr. Robert Miles, the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson has experienced the
most successful year in its history. During the term of the S. A. T. C., the headquarters at the gymnasium
were supplied with magazines, music, and equipment for the various indoor games. This term, a picture machine has been installed,
which has been in operation twice each week. This form of recreation has been very popular, as shown by the
average attendance of 275 students.

The work in the Sunday morning Bible classes, vesper services, and the world forum have been very successful. Approximately 700
pamphlets for study in these phases of Bible and National work have been distributed among the fellows. The textbook “About
Jesus,” by Bosworth, which has been used in some of the army camps, has been helpful, and Mr. Miles hopes
by next year to have some pamphlets on the practical problems of the day, to be studied along with the
regular literature on this work. The attendance in these classes has averaged about 125 men each Sunday.

Great work has been accomplished in the district Sunday Schools. The students have conducted six schools every Sunday afternoon, and
the interest and attendance have continued to grow each week. The average attendance for the term is around 225. A
new phase of this work is that of maintaining a playground for the children of the mill district of the
town. This work has been under the management of D. W. Roberts and has proved a wonderful success.

The vesper services have been one of the chief stimuli to the men at Davidson. At these meetings, our secretary,
various members of the faculty, and leaders and teachers from all parts of the country have spoken to the men.
All these talks have been on subjects that confront college students and have exerted a wonderful influence for good among
the fellows. The attendance at these services has been exceptionally good, averaging about 175 for the term and over 200
for the year.

This is the first year that Davidson has been fortunate to have such a man as Mr. Miles as a
leader, and with such a successful year just coming to a close, there is great hope for more abundant success
in the future.

PRESIDENT WILSON’S PICTURE RECEIVED BY LIBRARY.

Mrs. N. T. Smith, now of Charlotte, has presented the Library with the framed picture of President Wilson, which hung
in the library of Camp Greene. It is a French production and is a striking likeness of the President.

The Library has received “Keynote Studies of Keynote Books of the Bible,” by Dr. Alfonso Smith. This book contains one
of the courses of lectures presented at Union Theological Seminary by Mr. James Sprunt, well known on the campus. It
will be placed in the Alumni collection. Dr. Alfonso Smith, ‘84, is one of the most noted of all Davidson's
alumni. He is now head of the department of English at Annapolis, being recognized as one of the leaders of
his profession. He has written a number of other excellent books, many of which are also in the Alumni Collection.

The DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1919

“Railroad” Clarke the State.

Despite the fact that young Clark’s average for the season is only four hundred, yet this does not by any
means give an accurate account of his ability. He seemed to be a hard luck pitcher, as the games he
lost were by the one score margin. He lost to Elon College 3 to 1, in spite of the fact
that he held his opponents to six scattered hits and struck out eighteen men. Another defeat marked up against him
was the game with the University of North Carolina that went fifteen innings 4 to 3. In this game, the
Tar Heels could...Only gathered six hits during the entire fray, but luck broke against him at every turn. In the
last game of the season, he lost to Trinity 2 to 1, thirteen innings, although he only allowed three clean
hits. But in two games, "Railroad" covered himself with glory. Virginia found his delivery quite bewildering, and as a result,
three safe swats were all that he allowed them, besides sending back to the bench thirteen men via the strike-out
route. Against A. & E., he landed a thirteen-inning contest 1 to 0. This was undoubtedly the best-played game of
the season. "The News and Observer" of Raleigh classed Clark as one of the best two pitchers in the State,
but give him a hitting team and he would excel by far any other college twirler in North Carolina. Clark
has received an offer from Jack Dunn, of the Baltimore Orioles, which he has refused, as he does not care
to play professional ball. Clark is a senior this year, consequently, he will leave a vacancy on the team that
Coach Parker is going to find mighty hard to fill.

Copied word for word from signs in country stores near Columbia, Ga.:
"No flour sold here without serial to no customer except corn meal certificates 6 pounds to person. Law must be
carried out and help pay the war. Damn the Kaiser."

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both.
The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
Engraved Work a Specialty
CHARLOTTE PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
(Phone 643) C. J. MATTHEWS, Representative
NORTH CAROLINA

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts In North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S 210 South Tryon St., Mail Orders a Specialty CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TRINITY WINS FROM WILDCATS (Continued from page 1)
Cole, rf. .......... 5 1 2 0 0
Carsyn, cf. ........ 5 0 1 2 1 0
Towe, ss. ........ 5 0 0 3 2 3
Wannamaker, 3b. .. 4 1 2 2 5 2
Edens, 1b. ........ 4 0 1 9 0 0
Caviness, p. ...... 5 0 0 3 2
Totals .......... 40 2 6 39 13 7

Score by innings: R.
Davidson ..... 000 001 000 000 0—1
Trinity ........ 010 000 000 000 1—2

Summary: Two-base hit, Clarke. Three-base hit, Edens. Struck out by Caviness 13; by Clark 4. Bases on balls, by Caviness
2; by Clarke 1. Double play, Cassell to Ratchford. Left on bases, Davidson 8; Trinity 4. Umpire, Arkins.

CHALMERS WINS PHI. SOCIETY ESSAY CONTEST.
Dr. Reed Smith, professor of English at the University of South Carolina, consented to act as judge of the essays
and from those who entered he chose as the best "The Two Americas; Their Resemblance and Difference," by D. M.
Chalmers. As second, he chose "The Call of Armenia to America," by C. B. Alexander, and as third best essayist,
Clewell Howell, whose subject was "Manhood."

Due to the action of a "dumping gang" last Tuesday night, "Fattie" Campbell discovered that he had been sleeping on
the floor, with the bed covering him, instead of him covering the bed as usual.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton Next to Post Office DAVIDSON, N.C.

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent Your
business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

Columbia Theological Seminary Columbia, South Carolina For information and catalogues write the president Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

SEND IN YOUR SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE YEAR 1919-1920
