The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 17, 1919

When you buy a pipe bearing the W D C trade-mark, you have the satisfaction of knowing that your money
could not have bought a better pipe. The W D C is strictly American made. You can choose among a
multitude of styles, sizes, and grades at the best shops—$6 down to 75 cents.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer

Look at the lines of this one. They flow, a delight to the eye, from the rich brown of the
genuine French Briar bowl, through the sterling sheen of the ring, to the jet black lustre of the vulcanite bit.

The Home Beautifier—
Make Old Furniture, Worn Floors, and Woodwork look like New again. The cost is small and the pleasure of doing
the work yourself is great—You'll be delighted with the fine results obtained by using PEE GEE RE-NU-LAC. It is easily
applied, dries quickly, and adds to the life and appearance of floors, furniture, and woodwork. Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC is a
Stain and Varnish combined—made especially for beautifying homes. Try a can today.

Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC comes in all sizes, from 45c up. Made in 20 Natural Wood and Enamel Colors, White, Gold,
and Silver.

PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., MANUFACTURERS INCORPORATED
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

Our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School
men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and
Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We
give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then
keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result,
our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS, AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Good morning. “Why is the Davidsonian the livest wire on the hill?” D. M. C.—"Because it prints such shocking news.”

Booker has hopes of a delicious career in the army. He received a card last week informing him that men
are now being accepted for service who cannot read or write.

H. Buch Brown: “What course are you taking, Bethea?”
Bethea, from Dillon: “A golf course.”

How about a new dormitory? We saw a quotation lately from a London, Eng., paper. If things keep on we
will...Soon be hearing of the Atlanta, Ga. Journal. After seeing the result of some recent strikes, we must agree with
the man who said, “Labor omnia vincit.” See Hugh Hamilton at the movies next week. We didn’t know there had
been any astronomers in college, but what else could Cassel have meant by his remarks at the Fresh reception concerning
“far-seeing men?”

Bob McLeod: “How much are your memory books?”
Agent: “Three dollars and a half.”
The first mentioned gentleman: “Haven't you got a small one for a nickel?”

Good afternoon. The sale of Miss Virginia Smith's famous painting, “A Girl in Your Arms is Worth Two in Someone
Else's,” to Mr. R. O. V. L. Liston created a great sensation in art circles last week. The purchase price
is said to have been five.

“No, we don't call ourselves 'The Wickedest Liar on the Hill.'”

Once there was a nice little boy who was always good and always very, very good. Next door to him
there lived a little boy who was bad; in fact, he was horrid. They grew into manhood and still the
first one is good and the second has remained as bad as ever. “You thought they would change as the
years went by, didn’t you?” Well, we did too, but they didn’t.

We may put in a political column someday, but for the present, we are willing to let the Senatus presidentsque
run the government. We are thinking of running a farmer's corn contest in the near future and giving prizes amounting
to $100 to the winners. If 50,000 farmers sent us an ear of corn each and if 100 ears made
a bushel, we ought to be able to sell it for $1,000 and clear $900. High finance, is it not?

“None but the brave deserve a pair.” —Apologies to Dryden.

Private F. R. Eshman, in supply room: “Can I get anything else?”
Supply Sergeant Harrel: “You can get out.”

Time passed so swiftly that the cop failed to get his number.

CRAVER’S BROADWAY
Wednesday and Thursday
Anita Stewart in “Her Kingdom of Dreams”
Supported by an all-star cast including 12 actors who have been featured in other productions.

NEXT WEEK
The Great Nazimova in “The Brat”

Friday and Saturday
Madaline Traverse in “When Fate Decides”
Also a 2-Reel Western, Gaumont News, Mutt and Jeff Cartoons

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

For Big Occasions
When you don’t want to stop short of the very finest—give Norris Exquisite Candies.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Salesmen Wanted to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or commission.
Address THE LENNOX OIL & PAINT CO.
Cleveland, O.
