The DAVIDSONIAN. April 25, 1919

The Davidsonian

What a Greater Davidson wants is not advice but example. Begin now to be a Davidson booster or you will
be a lonesome onlooker in the big game which we are now beginning to play.

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice,
Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
D. W. Roberts ....... Editor-in-Chief
J. E. Cassell . Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr... Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill........ Alumni Editor

THE STAFF.
D. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

MANAGEMENT.
C. J. Mathews...... Business Manager
L. L. McAllister. . Circulation Manager
A. L. Currie. .....- Assistant Manager
C. H. Long....... Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson...... Assistant Manager
A. M. Mitchell.... Assistant Manager

REPORTER’S STAFF.
S. H. Askew
R. R. Craig
T. H. Spence
M. A. Trexler
J. R. Walker
A. M. Mitchell
W. P. Cumming
J. M. Richards
J. P. Price
M. R. Doubles
O. M. Dugger, Jr.

1920
S. H. Askew
T. H. Spence

1921
J. R. Walker
W. P. Cumming
A. M. Mitchell

1922
O. M. Dugger, Jr.
J. R. Price
M. R. Doubles
J. M. Richards

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

BACK TO ALMA MATER.

Back to the old campus, Fellows. Your Alma Mater will be looking for you. From Saturday night, May 24th until
Wednesday afternoon, May 28th, there will not be one idle moment. The classes of ‘99 and ‘14 are planning big
reunions. Other classes should not let these get ahead of them. ‘09, '04, ‘99, '89, '84 and '79 are also
scheduled for reunions this year. Fellows, where is your “pep?” Back to Alma Mater. We are looking for you, so
don’t disappoint us.

GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB.

The men of Davidson have begun a great and noble work. With a spirit of liberty, fraternity and equality, they
have laid the cornerstone of a greater Davidson. April 10th, 1919, will long be remembered as the beginning of a
new era in the history of our Alma Mater. On that day the student body assembled and formed a Greater
Davidson Club. The purpose of the club is just as its name implies, “A Greater Davidson.” This can be accomplished
only through earnest effort on the part of every Davidson man, both graduate and undergraduate. Let “Forward” be our watchword
and let us have 400 students as our goal for the year 1919-1920. Forward with your faith, Fellows! Adopt yourself
the personal idea of thrift—right saving and thoughtful spending. Include your country's financial welfare by using the National Thrift idea—War
Savings Stamps. Think of yourself and your earning power as a National asset. There is no finer patriotism than this.

SAYINGS OF NAPOLEON.

Imagination rules the world.
Force without intelligence is nothing.
No man’s loss is irreparable; for no man is indispensable.
They should have knowledge who seek to govern others.
Men are led by trifles.
It is but a step from the sublime to the ridiculous.
There are two means of moving men—interest and fear.
When a man is bent on public office he has already sold himself.
I conquer provinces, but win hearts.
The only victory over love is found in flight.
A faithful friend is the true image of Deity itself.
Death overtakes the coward, but never the brave man until his hour has come.—Scrap Book.

Josephine

The man who works with a song on his lips and in his heart will always put one over on
the man who has a growl in his throat. The don’t-care chap is the chap without the dollar, without a
future, without a home in his old age. He is the fellow who toys with the gift of ability the
Almighty has given him and forgets that his strength is not everlasting. He is oblivious to the fact that today—by
hard work, by loyalty to his job, by capacity to get returns on merit—he must save up for tomorrow. As
a rule it isn’t your work; it’s YOU. So buckle up your determination, smile down discouragement, and hit old work
a wallop that will floor it. That means success. “Get ready and the chance will come.” (Lincoln.) Save intelligently and
put your savings into interest-bearing, absolutely safe investments—Thrift and War Savings Stamps. Then that chance will find you ready.

The Government inspector will pay us a visit soon. Are you ready for him? Which company will get his commendation?
The Davidson unit is one of the largest in the State. It is up to us to make it the
best. Little acts of thoughtlessness will ruin a pretty campus. Let your heart and head guide you away from those
ugly paths. Use the pretty lawn but don’t abuse it. Get the Greater Davidson spirit. Lincoln said: “Teach economy.” That
is one of the first and highest virtues. It begins with saving money. Thrift and War Savings Stamps mean saving
money without hoarding. “Little strokes fell great oaks.” Every Thrift Stamp brings nearer a War Stamp.

VICTOR HUGO'S DREAM.

Victor Hugo in his day was called a dreamer. He preached wildly beautiful things, which were too good tocome true—it
was thought. The following is one of his ‘dreams:” “The day will come a cannon ball will be exhibited in
public museums just as an instrument of torture is now, and the people will be astonished how such a thing
could have been. A day will come when these two immense groups, the United States of America and the United
States of Europe shall be seen extending the hand of fellowship across the ocean, exchanging their products, their industry, their
arts, their genius, clearing the earth, peopling the deserts, improving the creation under the eye of the Creator, and uniting
for the good of all these two irresistible and infinite powers—fraternity of men and the power of God.”

LONESOME? Are you lonesome? Do you ever get homesick and wish to be back “somewhere in Virginia” and perhaps seeing
a certain little ‘someone’ tonight? If you keep busy you won't have time for vaporings and wishings and homesickness. If
you have any spare time from your lessons (most of those who pass their work do not, but you may
be one of these men of “exceptional intellect”) take up a course of reading. Read up on South America. Look
up the history of your State. Find out just what the underlying causes of the Great War were. Explore South
Africa and Australia via the printed page. If reading does not interest you, take up some hobby. Fix up a
miniature telegraph set to the room of a friend or on the arm of your chair. Learn the Morse and
Continental codes. You may be very glad you can “send” or “receive” some day. In the evening try a little
signalling. Practice up on the rifle range. Those “Sharpshooter” and “Expert Marksman” badges count much towards a commission. Read up
your I. D. R. and your Moss’ Manual, if you have one. Participate in college activities. Some men are better
known their first year than other men who have spent four years at college. Interest yourself in others. Take an
interest in athletics. Do your share to make your college paper and its annual a success. To attain unusual proficiency
in your studies at the expense of outside interests is to develop one part of your brain at the expense
of the other. Don’t be lop-sided. Keep busy.—Virginia Tech.

OUR ALMA MATER—WHAT IT MEANS. Fellows, if you have never realized what our Alma Mater means to us, you should
have been at G. W. C. on Saturday night. As soon as we started to sing our Alma Mater every
Clemson man in the audience jumped to attention. Several old ladies who were ardent Clemson supporters stood up soon after
we started, and before we got to the chorus every G. W. C. girl in the audience was standing at
attention.—The Tiger. Clemson's Alma Mater is no better than ours. See the April 6th issue of The Davidsonian and learn
it for commencement.

LOST IN THE GLARE OF THE KHAKI. We all sing praise to the khaki lad, To him the world’s credit
is due, But use both your eyes And please recognize The men of the sea in blue.

GIVE THEM ROPE. While the Germans were marching through a Belgian province, one of them said sneeringly to a farmer
sowing seed: “You may sow, but we shall reap.” “Well, perhaps you may,” was the reply. “I am sowing hemp.”—Montreal
Journal of Commerce.

Simple Explanation—“Your husband tells me he has quit betting on horses!” “Oh, dear!” exclaimed young Mrs. Torkins. “Charley broke again!”
—Washington Star.

PIANO TUNING You notice those who play a Violin, Guitar or other string instrument always tighten the strings and get
them in tune every time they begin to play. For similar reasons pianos need regular tuning—though not so often. Once
a year is generally advised. The spring is the best season for this work—because the weather conditions are more uniform
and favorable. My work may be examined by the one you think is the best judge either at the Gym,
the home of Dr. Richards or Mr. J. R. Withers, Davidson. All interested telephone 17-J, or address me, P. O.
Box, 12. C. B. ALEXANDER

Brown’s Cafe THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN
PEOPLE IF YOU SHOT HIM Come In and CELEBRATE If You Got Shot Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT CAKES-CANDIES-DRINKS

COLLEGE JEWELRY Watches and Clocks, Kodaks Film and Developing

A battlefield death means a hero slain, And a son to a muddy grave, But there’s never a dot, To
mark the spot Where the crow's nest touches the wave. When the salt sea washes his wounded flesh And life's
last moment is nigh, To windward or lee The man of the sea Can’t even crawl off to die. —Exchange.

W. S. HENDERSON JEWELER

Booe’s Market Fresh Meats At All Times
