6. The DAVIDSONIAN, March 26, 1919

Score of Contenders Out for Track Team

Track practice is now in full swing. There is a large number out and the men are working in earnest. Under the able guidance of Captain McQueen, the team is getting into fine trim and it is evident that Davidson will uphold her “rep” of former years. Captain McQueen urges all to come out, regardless of experience. Each is assured that he will be given a fair showing for the team. The more that try, the better team Davidson will have. Manager Murray announces that several meets are being arranged. The annual Field Day is to be held Saturday, April 5. Davidson will, as usual, hold her place in the State meet, and will also compete in the Southern meet to be held at Georgia Tech. The following men have reported for practice: Brice, Craig, McLeod, Fischel, Denny, McGurkin, Murray, Cornelson, Sprunt, Phillips, Freeman, Finley, Alexander, Wright, Hill, McQueen, McCloy, Holmes, Fricker, Walton, Hyland, Hizer, Long, and Davenport.

Field Day Again Postponed to April Fifth.

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

STOP AND SEE IF YOU SHOT HIM
Come In and Cunningham, the Barber, can please you. If You Got Shot, Come In and tell me. If I Don’t Forget It, please, tell others.

L. A. ELLIOTT
Next to Pressing Club
CANDIES - DRINKS

Z.K. JUSTICE
JEWELRY
Watches & Clocks
Kodaks
Film and Developing

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meat
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Vue Reports Keach Hone Why Monthly Check Failed to Arrive.

Professor: Mr. Key, how was the Louisiana Purchase acquired?
Mr. Key: We got it from Spain through treachery.
Professor: You have this confused, Mr. Key.
Mr. Key: That's right, Professor, we bought it from Russia.

* * *

After a peppy initiation of new members by the “D” club Saturday night, “Slink” Black and “Cop” Johnston decided to give a few yells behind Chambers. It later turns into a desperate foot race.

LAST WORDS OF THE DEPARTING EDITORS

* * *

If you spent thirty hours each week, collecting material for the paper, and editing it, trying to keep in mind the caution of some kindly souls who admonished you to “Make it a literary success,” and of some others to run lots of silly jokes, and yet others to be sure to side in with the faculty; and at the same time to agree with students that the members of that august body are a lot of dead ones; trying to keep enough basketball news to satisfy the team and boost orchestra, glee club, and literary societies; clamoring for student articles and then having to refuse to print many of them because of their “unprintableness”—then, yes then, we say if, after this, the issue does come forth, and you bethink you of the hour left wherein to study for the eighteen hours’ work you carry, and find that you must spend them in the office in endeavor to explain to some why you must print...the trash that others shouted for, or wait with loaded gun till you've explained to some irate contributor just why his article does not appear on the front page, or why a student forum article is printed as sent in by. And then the question came: DO YOU WANT A SPRING VACATION? Of course, you'd answer “No!” You would NOT! —Ex. “Lonesome Luke” plays Horatius at the bridge in his door on Hell Alley as the “D" club disturbs his slumbers Saturday night.

Students desiring to work an hour or more a day can make wages of more than $1.00 per hour selling America’s War for Humanity and Life of Roosevelt. Send at once for free outfit, F. B. DICKERSON Co., Detroit, Mich. enclosing 20c in stamps for mailing outfits.

At All Times Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices. It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it. CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc. M. D. MANNING, Mgr. 219 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

* * * Miller still holds on to his heavy artillery. * * * “Fatty” Campbell takes to Rumple loft, and “Fresh” Clyburn betakes himself down the fire-escape in great haste Saturday night as alarming sounds intrude Rumple’s solitudinous realms. * * * Snoddy and Howland have entered their names as contestants in the long-short men’s race of the Field Day exercises, March 5. * * * “Fatty” Campbell challenges ‘Babe’ Sherrill for a hot contest to decide heavyweight championship honors in the ring at any suitable date. Bets are thus far 10-6, favoring “Fatty.” Proceeds of the contest will be used for stretching barbed wire around the campus. * * * R. O. T. C. students will look real dressy in their new wool uniforms Easter.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our sanitary fountain. We want to serve you. The Rexall Store WHITE DRUG Co.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN. Dunlap Hats, E. & W. Metric Shirts, Hirsh Wickwire & Brandegee, Kincaid Clothing, Charlotte, N. C.

“That sweet young thing spoke to me.” “She did; I don’t believe it.” “Yes, she said ‘pardon me.’”