The DAVIDSONIAN. Sept. 17, 1919

Just Opened

WE HAVE JUST OPENED

A CLOTHING STORE

At 203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.

We wish to extend a special invitation to our friends and customers of Davidson, N.C. We carry a full stock of Suits, Hats, and Overcoats for men and young men, Serges, Worsted, Flannels, and other materials of equal value. Newest Styles and Models, direct from manufacturer to wearer. Workmanship and colors guaranteed.

Out of the high rent district, other expenses small. So drop in at your earliest convenience and be convinced that we can save you from $10.00 to $15.00 on every suit.

Make our store headquarters while in Charlotte.

Lingle Clothing Company
203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.
B. A. Lingle Phone 3113 D. A. Presley

YOUNG WIFE'S FIRST LESSON

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

The newly married man came home from his office happy. He was greeted as newly married men are greeted, with a kiss, and this, in fashion of his kind, he returned with interest.

“Of course we shall go out to dinner, darling,” he remarked.

“Yes, dearest,” replied the happy young woman, “but one of these days we shall have a dinner here, darling, shall we not, after I am getting along famously with my cooking lessons.”

“And it will be such a change,” he continued, “from the monotonous fare of the restaurants.”

There were more kisses.

“Did you take cooking lessons today, dearest?” he asked.

There was pride in her tone as she replied, “Today, dearest, I learned how to boil water.”—Ohio Observer.

CHARLOTTE LAUNDRY

Oldest and best established laundry in the Carolinas, will again resume business on campus through its representatives, Cassell & McCaskill. They are carrying one of the best dry-cleaning establishments and are in a position to give you the best of service. Laundry will be called for and delivered the same week. Satisfaction guaranteed. Your patronage will be appreciated.

“OLDEST, LARGEST, BEST”

Cassell & McCaskill

“Who Builds Your Clothes?”

An important question for every man to decide.

Let Barrymore help you. A full line of all wool fabrics, latest models, all guaranteed.

Matthews & Wilson, Representatives

MORE WAR RISK INSURANCE GEMS.

A few of the inquiries received by the Bureau of War Risk Insurance:

1. This letter is written on an ocean of love with every wave a kiss.
2. Dear President, please send me my money or my husband. Someone told me to write you and tell you my life's history.
3. I am a poor widow woman and all I have is in the front.
4. Dear Mr. President, if you don't send my money I will have to write to Uncle Sam himself.
5. Is my son living or dead? If so, what is his address?

The selfish person is the one who wants the thing we want for ourselves.