THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni.

Dr. J. M. Douglas a Beloved Worker of the College Has Done Much for Davidson’s Standing in Athletics

James McDowell Douglas, M.A., Ph.D., was born in Fairfield County, S.C., in 1867. He entered Davidson College in 1890, and was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1893, being one of the honor men of his class. During the following year he pursued the study of mathematics and received his master’s degree in 1894. The three years following his study at Davidson he spent in teaching in the Davidson High School, and as superintendent of the Gaston Institute, at Gastonia, N.C. In 1897 he entered Johns Hopkins University, graduating from that institution in 1901 with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. The same year he was elected to the chair of Natural Philosophy at Davidson College, and later was given the chair of Astronomy and Geology.

Dr. Douglas has been for many years the chairman of the athletic committee of the college, and much credit is due him for the reputation which we have acquired in all branches of athletics. He also has one of the hardest duties to perform, that of making out the schedule every year. And as chairman of the student publications committee he has aided the efforts of the students to print the fine publications which we now have. He is an elder in the college church and one of the foremost Christian workers in the community. Too much cannot be said in praise of his work for the college, for he has helped to make it the institution that it is, and we know that his efforts will be redoubled, now that Davidson is growing to a Greater Davidson.

Approaching Marriages Among Alumni

The following marriages among the alumni of Davidson have been announced for the near future:
Mr. Wm. T. Witt, '16, to Miss Edith Grace Craig, Thursday evening, October 16, at 8 o'clock, at Vine Street Presbyterian Church, Birmingham, Ala.
Rev. B. Frank Pim, Jr., '14, to Miss Dorothy Francis, Wednesday, October 15, at 8 p.m., at Fairview, near Cartersville, Ga.
Dr. Samuel Mitcham, '09, to Miss Bessie Williams, Thursday, October 16, at 8:30 p.m., Arvonia Baptist Church, Arvonia, Va.

A. R. Craig, '17, passed through Davidson Monday afternoon on his way to Union Theological Seminary, where he will take up his studies.

Oscar M. Dugger, ex-'22, is at the University of Alabama this session.

Emery Flinn, '19, is working with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., in Atlanta, Ga.

T. H. Belk, ex-'20, was on the hill last Tuesday.

J. G. Patton, Jr., '16, was on the hill last week. He stopped over on his way to Union Theological Seminary, being in the middle class at that institution.

E. G. Lilly, '19, is now at Princeton University taking post-graduate work in Physics, while his brother, H. T. Lilly, '18, is at the same institution taking English.

J. L. R. Boyd, '12, passed through Davidson last week en route to Columbia University, New York, where he will take post-graduate work in Political Science. Mr. Boyd was a first lieutenant in the army and saw extensive service overseas. He received his discharge in August. While in Paris Mr. Boyd spent several months at the Sorbonne University.

The July issue of “From Far Japan” is devoted to the territory of Susake, where the only two missionaries of the Southern Presbyterian Church are Davidson alumni: Rev. John W. Moore, '86, and Rev. J. Harper Brady, '12. These two men with their families are at work in this section of the country. Several interesting articles and pictures illustrating their work may be found in the above-mentioned periodical.

Rev. John L. Fairley, '09, of Steel's Tavern, Va., drove over from Statesville Wednesday to see the football team practice.

Dr. Treloar Wearn, '13, has received his discharge from the medical service of the army and has resumed his work with the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Mass. Wearn was stationed at the Reed Hospital in Washington.

Dr. W. H. Sprunt, '14, a graduate of the Jefferson Medical College, has entered upon a three-year engagement in the Mayo Hospital at Rochester, Minn.

Dr. W. C. von Glahn, '11, a member of the faculty of Johns Hopkins University before his entrance into the war, is now Pathologist of the Baltimore City Hospital.

Dr. C. A. Hart, '11, of the City Hospital of Baltimore, was in Davidson a few days ago. He visited his brother, O. P. Hart, '19, who is taking his M.A. degree.

W. L. Milburn, '10, spent a night on the campus last week. He is a representative of the Addressograph Company, and will likely be stationed at one of their foreign offices.

Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, '84, is the author of a new book entitled, “New Words Self-Defined.” This book contains the strictly modern words that have come into use since 1914. Instead of defining the words, Dr. Smith gives sentences illustrating their new use, which at once brings the words to a proper use in our vocabularies. A reading knowledge of these words is essential to an understanding of current literature as found in our magazines. Such words as “Attaboy” are clearly defined in this book.

Dr. Thornton Stearns, '06, has been for a year on the surgical staff in the medical department of the Shantung (China) Christian University. After graduating in medicine, Dr. Stearns was resident pathologist, Johns Hopkins Hospital, for one year, and assistant surgeon in the University of California Hospital for a like period. He has spent two years in language study in China.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '05, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Knoxville, Tenn., has accepted a call to the Government Street Church in Mobile, Ala.

Rev. J. F. Menius, '11, who has been doing Home Mission work in Tennessee for the last few years, has moved to Buies Creek, N.C., and will have charge of the same kind of work in Harnett and Johnston Counties.

Chaplain H. G. Bedinger, '11, has just arrived from France and is for the present at Florence, S.C.

Mr. Milburn, '10, Visits Davidson

W. F. Milburn, '10, was on the Hill last Thursday, and lectured to the Economics Class. Mr. Milburn, after leaving Davidson, went to Wharton School of Finance, University of Pennsylvania, where he received his M.A. in '11. From this time until the fall of '16 he was engaged in business in Chattanooga, Tenn., at which time he went to France as an ambulance driver in American service.Red Cross in French Army. His unit was decorated for bravery under fire. While in the French Army, Mr. Milburn was commissioned. In the fall of '17, Mr. Milburn returned home to enter the services of his own country. He was assigned to the ordnance department, in which branch Mr. Milburn is now sales manager of the Addressograph Sales Company and is fitting himself for foreign service.

TO THE ALUMNI WHO HAVE BEEN IN THE SERVICE.
The Library of Davidson College has tried to get a list of all our college men who have been in service during the European war. Please send in at once the date of your enlistment, a record of your service, and the date of your discharge, so that our record may be complete and accurate. So far we have a list of over 650, but it is neither complete nor correct.

Mr. Carson, '16, to Locate in Charlotte
The many friends of Mr. James Holmes Carson, '16, will be interested to learn that he has decided to locate in Charlotte. He has acquired an interest in the Anderson Motor Sales Company. “Mr. Carson,” says the Charlotte Observer, “is one of the city’s leading young men. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Carson entered the University of Pennsylvania, from which he soon graduated. Leaving college, he entered the service of his country, received his commission of first lieutenant, and was later promoted to captain.”

H. B. Fraser, '17, was on the Hill last Saturday. He will resume his studies at Union Theological Seminary, which opens today. In a few remarks made before the Eumenean Literary Society Saturday night, Mr. Fraser said that he was glad to be back on the campus again and to see the progress being made by the college. He said a few familiar faces made Davidson seem like home to him.

(Additional Alumni on Page 10)

HAVE you ever seen him? THERE IS A fellow WHO went to BED The OTHER night feeling DISSATISFIED AND Couldn't figure why. CAN YOU? THAT Morning he listened TO THE FIRST BELL, Turned over AND DOZED Till the last PEALS; THEN Rushed and ARRIVED at CHAPEL breathless and AWRY. DURING THE Morning he WAS “SHOT” THREE TIMES: In 2 VACANT periods FOOLED AT STUDYING, Gave IT UP and LOAFED DOWN the Street. AFTER DINNER he Slurred Thru LAB; WALKED to THE FOOTBALL field AT FOUR and hung Around TILL SIX. STARTED A letter before SUPPER HE had BEEN PROMISING himself TO WRITE for a WEEK BUT ONLY got as Far as THE HEADING. After supper he Stationed himself to SEE THE seven-ELEVEN THRU. IT WAS late BUT He stayed ON. HE WAS LATE GOING to his ROOM. BY THAT time INERTIA was Hard to OVERCOME. He made a FEINT AT Studying BUT he was FAINT in Well Doing. ALL DAY he HAD PLANNED BUT NEVER ACTED. Do you KNOW the ANSWER now? HOW DOES THIS DO? PROCRASTINATION.

Overtime Literary Work Not Up to Standard
More Preparation is Earnestly Urged

Phi. Society. The query for September 27th was: Resolved, the eight-hour law passed by Congress is to the best interest of the American people. The affirmative was supported by Booker, Query, and J. F. Clark. McLeod, McCain, and W. C. Neel replied in the negative manner. The outstanding feature of the debate as a whole was preparation—rather, the lack of it. This was evidenced very plainly in Booker and McLeod. These worthy gentlemen knew they didn’t know—and (evidently) wanted everybody else to know, that they didn’t know—anything about the question. However, they B—led three minutes each and walked away with a credit. Booker came out on top, however, as he got one good laugh (even if it was from himself). After all, the decision committee were sufficiently “convicted” to give the decision to the “gentlemen of the affirmative.” We were now exposed to an ennobling declamation by R. C. Deaver, entitled, “The Last Charge of Lee.” According to the critic, we never quite found out whom he was addressing. Whether it was the audience, the floor, or the departed spirit of that noble chieftain, we have still to learn. But let us hurry to the great climax (or anti-climax). This was an extemporaneous debate pulled off by his honor, “Memory Book” Fricker vs. Math Stud Foscue. The query happened to be, Resolved, That Davidson should be made a co-ed college. When it was M. B.'s face shone with undisguised joy, for ’tis well known what Midget's “Trump Cards” are. Fricker (in all seriousness) argued that this should become a law, because—well, one thing, it would prevent “so much gadding about,” etc., etc., etc. Also, he urged the point that we could then “appreciate all the activities of young ladies.” Foscue opposed the bill mainly because it would interfere with our free visiting from Chambers to Georgia clad in a “seal skin coat.” After a long deliberation (and we expected the toss of a coin) the judges had the fact announced that the negative had won. Then the “best yet” happened. Mr. A. L. Currie, in reporting the decision of a committee on how to get new members, suggested the plan of having a giant feed in the new gymnasium next Saturday night instead of a regular debate. All the new men (whether entering as Freshmen or otherwise) from North Carolina were to be invited. This plan was accepted and carried by storm. It was decided to have a committee to look up each new man here and give him a personal invitation. Admission will be on recognition only. Also, it was later decided to have all the officers of our sister society. They also will be invited. So now, North Carolinians, prepare for big things, expect big things. We will have speeches, jokes, lots of “eats”—and in general, a rousing old-fashioned good time.

RAT-SNAP KILLS RATS
Also mice. Absolutely prevents odors from carcass. One package proves this. RAT-SNAP comes in cakes—no mixing with other food. Guaranteed. 25c. size (1 cake) enough for Pantry, Kitchen or Cellar. 50c. size (2 cakes) for Chicken House, coops, or small buildings. $1.00 size (5 cakes) enough for all farm and out-buildings, storage buildings, or factory building. Sold and Guaranteed by Mooney Hdw. and White Drug Store.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing
“Who Builds Your Clothes?” Let Tarymore help you. Matthews & Wilson, Representatives of all wool fabrics, latest models, all guaranteed.

16 Chambers
Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Fountain Drink at our Sanitary
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store