THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919

Devotional News

Invitation to State Student Volunteers to Hold Conference Here

“Faithfulness Fine Foundation for Firm Christianity”

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

For Big Occasions

When you don't want to stop short of the very finest—

March — The Picked Men of Other Colleges to Be Here

So Says Coach Hart of Horner in Address to Y. M. C. A. Last Sunday Night

A formal invitation to the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union for Foreign Missions to hold their annual conference with us next Spring has been issued. It is the custom of the Union to hold these conferences in February or March of each year. In 1915 the conference held its sessions at Queens and joined with the Laymen's Convention at Charlotte in the night sessions. Since that time it has met in Greensboro or vicinity. Davidson has had the largest band in the State and has almost invariably had the largest representation at the conference. It will be a great privilege to entertain this body. It will bring the Union, and many eminent speakers, to our campus. It is hoped that the officers will see fit to give the 1920 conference to Davidson and it is certain that Davidson will do her best to give the visitors a royal good time while here. D. W. Roberts is vice-president of the Union and in the past, Davidson has often been represented among the officers. H. B. Arbuckle represents Davidson.

The issuance of this invitation comes through the working of the Volunteer Band, but the whole student body has indicated in one way or another their approval and hearty cooperation. The faculty approves the invitation as well as do many of the townspeople who heartily agreed to assist in any way possible. It is up to the student body to show their zeal. Davidson is on the map in athletics. She puts out excellent debating teams. She should land this conference.

A rather difficult situation arose at the “Y” service last Sunday night, when Captain Hart, who is coach at Horner Military Academy in Charlotte, did not arrive in time for the service. Dwight Chalmers, the “Y” president, met Dr. Sentelle a few minutes before the service, and explained to him the situation. Although Dr. Sentelle had refused all former requests to speak at the “Y” services, he agreed to speak if Captain Hart was unavailable. Dr. Sentelle had just started when Captain Hart arrived. Dr. Sentelle immediately introduced the new speaker, who then took charge of the meeting. The student body hopes to hear Dr. Sentelle finish his talk at an early date.

After explaining the cause of his delay, Coach Hart expressed his interest in Davidson College and his pleasure in speaking to Davidson students. The subject of the talk was Faithfulness; faithfulness to your work, faithfulness to your friendships, and faithfulness to Christianity. “The man, the team, the student body that can pull together and be faithful to the end is on the road to success. Through faithful work one can accomplish an otherwise insuperable task. Edison and Paderewski stand foremost in their callings among the men of today. According to their own statements, they owe their accomplishments to faithfulness in their work. If a man has been faithful to his work, he has succeeded.”

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson

WHITE DRUG CO., Agents

FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Send your next batch of films to

CUSHMAN'S STUDIO

ONE GRADUATE EXPERT SERVICE

H. A. HILL, Agent

Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte. Laundry called for and delivered.

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents

No. 30 and 26 Chambers

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY

OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS

Make Your Stove and Furniture Look New with our Stains and Paints. Stove Pipe

Our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us toHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

give you full particulars. Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N.C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President. H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

The present advisory committee of the Union. Friday nights.

661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. The 1920 Student Volunteer Conference succeeded and established herself firmly in this field.

Again, a man should be faithful to his friendships. One is judged, and is often judged rightly, by the friends he keeps. Many men are ruined for life because of bad friendships they form when they come to college. One cannot be true to his friendships unless he is careful in his choice of friends.

Finally, be faithful to Christianity. Boys, when in Charlotte, eat at The Ministerial candidates have adopted a series of resolutions pledging themselves to a stricter observance of the standards of the Scriptures. The matter was first discussed two weeks ago when "Watts cession" that it appoint a committee to work out some plan for accomplishing this end. The committee appointed was Cummings, Bitzer, and Neel. The resolutions this committee drew up were read by Cummings at the last meeting. The moderator, Neel, who was also a member of the committee, added a few words of explanation. Then Gamble, Clark, McGirt, Harrel, Stallingsworth, Winter, and many others spoke in favor of the plan. The resolutions, with a few verbal changes, were passed unanimously and stand as follows:

"Whereas, we, the members of the Ministerial Band, those who give high standards of Christian living expected of candidates for the ministry, we of the committee recommend:

1. That the band go on record as condemning all flagrant violations of the standards of the Scriptures, such as profane language or expressions, Sunday studying, petty theft, obscene pictures, modern dancing, gaming with cards, gambling, and drinking; or of student standards of action such as hazing, light stealing, and cheating.

2. That the officers of the band be given power to uphold these standards by private then public reprimand, by expulsion from the band, or by notification of the candidate’s home Presbytery. That the candidates pledge themselves to uphold these standards in every

SUNDAY SCHOOLS.

The Sunday Schools are showing up well now and they are sustaining their good attendance. The attendance the past week was as follows:

Teachers. Members.
Representatives 16 70
Chambers 8 67
Caldwell 7 60
Cornelius 8 52
Brawley 5 30
Shearer's 5 20
Oak Grove 40 349
Cowan’s

Total 40 349

When you patronize advertisers, mention the Davidsonian.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.