The DAVIDSONIAN, April 9, 1919

Excellent Debates In Both Societies

Should Faculty Give Credit for Society Work?

S. H. Askew brought out in an oration “The Rights of the Southern Cotton Farmer.” He defended their rights vigorously
and denounced the piracy in the action of the Western wheat farmer. Under the head of general business, the society
decided to make certain improvements on the hall before commencement.

PROGRAM
Saturday Night, April 12

Phi Society
Affirmative: Calhoun, Tufts, Foscue, McCroary
Negative: Boney, Howland, Hart, Freeman

MINISTERIAL BAND DISCUSSES CHURCH HISTORY

An interesting history of Presbyterianism was brought out in the Ministerial Band's discussion of Organic Union on last Friday night.
Presbyterianism is more distinctively a form of church government than a unique theology. The government of the United States rests
on the same principles of self-government as those of the Presbyterian church.

The first organized union of Presbyterians was brought into effect as early as 1640. For 100 years this first compact
worked successfully until the old side separated from the new, reuniting 17 years later in 1758. In 1810 the Cumberland
branch withdrew, adapting its government to its needs. The next break was between the present Northern and Southern churches, due
to conditions arising in the Civil War. In 1906 the Cumberland united with the Northern church.

After the introductory outline of the history of the church, Roberts proceeded to show that the only two remaining divisions
of the Presbyterian church in America should unite. His main reasons for this were: (1) The old differences arising from
the Civil War have been set aside; (2) these two branches are essentially one and the same; (3) in union
there is strength; (4) it is necessary for Presbyterians to unite among themselves before they can influence others to unite
with them to form the World church. Following this, Calhoun made a few remarks carrying out the above thoughts. He
closed with a striking appeal by showing that it is the duty of every Christian to make good the principles
of Christian fraternity for which many gave their all in the great world war.

Phi Society

Demonstrating their love for the old college, the Phi Society made an attempt to aid the faculty in the solution
of important and timely questions at their meeting Saturday night. Resolved, “That a diploma from the literary societies should count
as a credit towards graduation from Davidson,” was the query for debate. Poole, Foster, and Howell contended that this new
custom should be inaugurated, while Neal, Holmes, and Joe Story protested against any such innovation. The debate was good—not poor,
not excellent. The judges saw fit to cast all three of their votes for the affirmative.

T. R. Alexander gave a demonstration of his ability to assimilate Senior English in the form of an oration on
Edgar Allan Poe and the platform before the president's chair. His knowledge of dates concerning this poet was refreshing.

J. M. Dunlap and Spence next engaged in a bush-pulling contest over: Resolved, That the study of German should be
abolished from American schools and colleges. The affirmative, debated by Mr. Dunlap, lost by a three to nothing vote. The
critic wearied the audience with a disclosure of his ideas of speaking. After a discussion of attendance on the Fresh-Soph
debate, which was to be held Monday night, the society disbanded.

“Just Received—A fine lot of Ostend rabbits. Persons purchasing the same will be skinned and cleaned while they wait.”

PIANO TUNING

You notice those who play a Violin, Guitar, or other string instrument always tighten the strings and get them in
tune every time they begin to play. For similar reasons, pianos...need regular tuning—though not so often. Once a year is
generally advised. The spring is the best season for this work—because the weather conditions are more uniform and favorable. My
work may be examined by the Eumenean Society.

With a full audience and an interesting set of speakers on the program, the Eumenean Society enjoyed one of its
best spring meetings. The house was full of “pep” and those coming off delivered snappy talks. The subject for debate
was: Resolved, "That a diploma from the literary societies should count as a credit towards graduation from Davidson." The affirmative
was defended by Gunn, Doggett, and Manning. Their strong argument was that a man accomplishes as much work and gets
as much mental training in four years of society work as he does in one year of any other. The
negative was upheld by Heizer, Sanders, and Liston. Their main points were that the standard of a Davidson degree would
be lowered, and that a poor class of students would be induced to Davidson by the offer. The committee decided
in favor of the negative. The house likewise judged either at the Gym or at the home of Dr. Richards
or Mr. J. R. Withers, Davidson. All interested telephone 17-J, or address me, P. O. Box 12.

C. B. ALEXANDER

D. M. Gaston gave a patriotic declamation on “Our Flag,” which drew good applause from the house. J. D. McCloy
also delivered ex-Governor Bob Taylor's address at the Knoxville Carnival. It made the Tennessee element of the house feel rather
proud—but home- Phi. Society Upholding Negative Defeats Eumenian. Ormond and McKeithen Knox and Barnette Win Debating Medals.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

Last Monday night witnessed the finals of the Fresh-Soph Debate between the two literary societies. The query was: "Resolved, That
all men 21 years of age should receive a year’s military training." Messrs. A. P. Ormond and A. L. Mitchell,
of the Eumenean Society, argued in favor of the affirmative, while the negative was upheld by Messrs. C. G. Long,
J. M. Dunlap, and J. R. McKeithen, of the Philanthropic Society. The judges decided in favor of the negative. The
medallists were Knox and Barnette, of the Philanthropic Society, and Ormond, of the Eumenean Society.

The men selected as McKeithen, of the Eumenean Society.

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South's Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18,
20 and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

MY SOUVENIR

The souvenir I’m taking home Is not a German gat; It's not a German trench knife; Nor yet a German
hat. It’s not a raven buckle, Emblazoned “Gott Mit Uns,” It's not a bunch of ringlets Off dirigible balloons. It's
not a German button, Gas mask, or piece of dress: With souvenirs of that sort I just bleed the S.
O. S.

K. N. BOOKER, Agt. Frye & Gibson Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes TRY US

Such souvenirs are only trash, And of them I’ll have none. The souvenir I’m taking home Is my mother’s only
son.

John W. Fleming, in Stars and Stripes

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN Dunlap Hats E. & W. Metric Shirts S. TRYON ST. Hirsh Wickwire
& Brandegee Charlotte, N. C. Kincaid Clothing

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Bought and Sold
Farm Produce

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices

It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the
one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices,
you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for
your old piano and in arranging terms to suit.

CATALOG FREE, Write for it.

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc. M. D. MANNING, Mgr. 219 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.
