IE. Vol. VI.

Red and Black Quint Breaks Even On Last Four Games of Trip

Lose to Roanoke and Guilford. Failure, on the part of the whole Davidson team, with the exception of Harrington, to shoot with accuracy, lost the fourth game of the Virginia trip. The strong Roanoke College five won from the Wildcats by the score of 25 to 15. Measurements for Uniforms Made. The Red and Black quint was somewhat broken up by the absence of McAskill in the first half, who was too sick to start the game. During the first half, Davenport played center and received such an ugly gash on his elbow that a stitch had to be taken in it, and he was forced to retire in favor of McAskill, who finished out the second half regardless. Price, for Roanoke, was high man for the contest, scoring four field goals. Harrington played best for Davidson, ringing up three goals. The game was rough and both teams put up a poor game of basketball.

Line-up:
Roanoke. Position. Davidson.
Peters. Forward. Harrington
Price. Forward. Doubles
Glenn. Center. Davenport
Garrison. Guard. Chalmers
Atkinson. Guard. Schenck

Substitutes: Lack for Garrison, McAskill for Davenport, Hall for Doubles, Brice for Chalmers.
Field goals: Peters 3, Price 4, Garrison 1, Atkinson 1, Lack 1, Harrington 3, Chalmers 1, Brice 1.
Foul goals: Garrison 3, Harrington 4, McAskill 1.
Time of halves: 20 minutes.

Playing poorer than in any other game, the Davidson team lost to Guilford by the score of 21 to 9. The Guilford defense was too much for the Wildcat forwards, who were simply smothered on the small court. Davenport was out of the game on account of the injury received in the Roanoke game and his loss was sorely felt. Schenck, for Davidson, did the best playing, holding his forward to one goal.

(Continued on page 6)

Date of Junior Speaking Rapidly Approaching

Plans for Decoration and Entertainment Completed. As each day draws to a close it brings nearer and nearer the crisis in the life of the class of '20. In the late hours of the night, lights can be seen burning brightly in the chapel and society halls, and the unlucky guy who happens to pass by is profoundly impressed with the fact of the oncoming "Bolshevist" invasion. Junior Speaking will be held Friday night, Saturday morning, and Saturday afternoon, instead of Friday night, Saturday afternoon, and Saturday night, as previously announced. The invitations have been ordered and will be here soon. They announce music by the College Orchestra, but having a trip planned for that week, it will be impossible for them to render their services. Plans for se-

(Continued on page 6)

McAskill. Other News.

LT.-COL. A. J. MEUWLLER

The establishment of a unit of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps at Davidson has at last become an actuality. Last Monday, the students expecting to become members of the unit were measured for uniforms, and close order drill is being taken up this week. A number of inquiries have been made about the R.O.T.C. and this article hopes to answer some of them.

To begin with, one hundred thousand complete uniforms, and one hundred thousand sets of infantry equipment, including rifles, ammunition, etc., are available and held subject to orders of the R.O.T.C. committee. So there is no need to fear a shortage of uniforms. It has not been definitely stated by the War Department but it is thought that these uniforms will be given as permanent property. To receive the commutation of 40 cents per day, a preliminary course of two years' military work is required. The equivalents of this course which it is hoped will be adopted are:
1. Service as a commissioned officer of the United States.
2. Three months' service as an enlisted man with combat troops in France or Italy.
3. Four months in the service of supply, in training camps or schools in Europe.
4. Six months in cantonments in the United States.

Service in the S.A.T.C. may count month for month as equal to service in the R.O.T.C. in the two years' preliminary course to the advanced training. Members of the Naval Reserve (inactive status) are not eligible under pres-

(Continued on page 6)

taking advantage of the chance.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FEBRUARY 26, 1919.

DAVIDSONIAN

Evangelistic Services Attended With Interest By Whole Student Body

Dr. Myers and Quartet Score a Hit on the Campus.

Baseball Squad Hard At Work Every Day

1919 Season Promising With Plenty of Good Material. The call for candidates for the 1919 baseball team went out Monday.betore last. About thirty men responded, showing an increasing interest in the national game. Coach Betzer started the men on easy workouts. At each practice, the outfield is thickly dotted with players chasing long flies. The infield is already showing speed and pep. It is an impossibility for a batter to "slip one through" the numerous players scattered over the diamond. Development of the pitchers is being watched with interest. Clarke and Currie, of last year's pitching staff, are gradually getting their arms into shape. Johnson and Sullivan, also of the 1918 squad, are receiving the offerings of the twirlers. Several freshmen are booked to give a good account of themselves in the box and behind the bat. It is evident in batting practice that none of last year's sluggers have lost their batting eye. Coach is certainly giving the players every chance to develop their hitting, and they are readily responding. Every detail points to a most successful season. Bob Cunningham is at work on what seems to be an extra good schedule. The regular state trip is being made out, and an extensive trip through the South is planned. The team hopes to be given a trial at Georgia Tech and most probably they will be included in the schedule.

Messrs. W. B. Barnett and Parks Brown have opened a general merchandise store in the building formerly occupied by Armour Bros.

SCHEDULE FOR WEEK FEBRUARY 26-MARCH 1

Wednesday—6:45 p.m.: Volunteer Band; 7:00 p.m.: Dr. Myers Speaks.
Thursday—7:30 p.m.: Forum Meeting.
Friday—2:10 p.m.: Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting; 6:45 p.m.: Ministerial Band; 8:00 p.m.: Polity Club Meeting.
Saturday—2:10 p.m.: Sunday School Teachers’ Meeting; 2:30 p.m.: Fresh Bible Test; 6:45 p.m.: Literary Societies; Davidson and Carolina play Basketball at Charlotte “Y.”
Sunday—10 a.m.: Bible Classes; 3:00 p.m.: Sunday School; 6:30 p.m.: “Y” Service. Dr. J. M. Douglas speaks.
Monday—
Tuesday—6:45 p.m.: Movie.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m.: Pencil Club.

If you were not at the opening meeting of Dr. Myers’ campaign, be sure to go tonight and see what you missed. The meeting was opened by a song service which lasted about thirty minutes. After the singing of some of the familiar war and sacred songs by the audience, Dr. Myers' quartet gave some selections and Miss Johnson favored the audience with a solo. Dr. Myers took "Making the Choice" for his subject. He used the example of Lot "pitching his tent toward Sodom." Everyone has influence with others. Lot gave as his reason for going to Sodom that he would have a good influence on the other people. Although he got to be mayor of the town, when God destroyed it, not ten righteous people could be found in the city. Lot made his choice for worldly goods and lost all that he had, even his wife. Abraham made his choice and followed God. God prospered him and made out of him a great nation. Dr. Myers put the question squarely up to everyone whether they were making a choice for God or whether they were compromising with evil. He pointed out the fact that Aaron Burr made the choice to leave God out of his life and paid the penalty of disgrace. It does not take Dr. Myers long to say what he wants to say, but he says it in a clear and impressive manner. He does not mince words but comes straight to the point. The quartet is an added attraction to all the students to make a special effort to be present. The meetings last only one hour and it is that hour in which very little study is done anyway, so there is really no excuse for not having the whole student body out tonight for the last meeting of the campaign. Why not have a hundred percent attendance tonight? Dr. Myers starts promptly at 7 o'clock, so be sure to be on time.

1919 Football Schedule Nearing Completion
Stiff Season Promised by Manager Hall.

W. F. Hall, football manager for 1919, on being interviewed last Saturday stated that he was glad to announce that his schedule was rounding into definite shape very satisfactorily. At the present time, the following games have been scheduled: October 4, Washington and Lee at Lexington; October 18, University of S.C. at Columbia; October 25, V.M.I. at Lexington; November 1, Ga. Tech at Atlanta; November 8, A. & E. at Raleigh; November 15, University of N.C. at Winston-Salem; November 21, Presbyterian College at Davidson. Games for September 20 and 27 and October 4 are pending with Furman, Wofford, and Wake Forest, but nothing definite has been settled at this time. The refusal of Clemson to play the annual (Continued on page 6)