YAVIDSONIAN FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., AUGUST 20, 1919. No. 1

Letter From “Y” President
Greater Davidson Club
Davidson Welcomes Chalmers Writes of Some of the Things the Association Plans for this Coming Year.

Camp Sapphire, Brevard, N. C., August 4, 1919.

Dear Friends:

If you look at your calendar again, you'll see that it isn’t very long until we will be notifying all of our girls to address us at Davidson, N. C., (care Davidson College), while we ourselves enjoy the unexcelled climate of the above-mentioned college. Since the time is so short we are ready and anxious about everything that will affect our student life this year. And so the Y. M. C. A. takes advantage of this issue of “The Davidsonian” to acquaint you with its aims and plans for the good year 1919-20.

We begin this year with several advantages we have never enjoyed before and which will give us a “lead” over previous years. For example, we will have a general secretary this session who bats a thousand the year round, I expect you have already gotten a letter from him (he signs his name R. W. Miles, Jr.). Then here is the $3 per capita fund that the student body has voted for general “Y” work. They realized that our association could not expand without funds and every live student wants the work to increase. And, by the way, this money together with the remainder of our $3000.00 budget will be in the hands of the “Y” board of control composed of three faculty members and four students of tested business ability. So we can count on every dollar doing its maximum amount of work.

Another advantage is the group of fellows who attended the student conference at Blue Ridge in June. Davidson was represented by eight students, the general secretary and his wife, one faculty representative, and three alumni. Those who attended the conference will be better prepared and more inspiring workers, on account of the ten days on the mountainside. Before we left we decided upon fifty as a minimum delegation for next summer, so be sure and include this conference in your summer schedule.

These then are some of the new tools we use for the first time this year and with them the Y. M. C. A. plans to accomplish larger and more efficient service. The usual Bible and mission study groups will be reinforced by a course in the study of college problems. This year under the leadership of L. L. McAlister and L. G. Calhoun, we hope to make the courses unusual by new and more interesting subject matter and by having 100 per cent enrollment. The plans for receiving the new men have been completed and also those for “College Nite.” The Reception committee is also planning work for the entire year so “Doug” McArn wrote me. The Personal Work Committee is in touch with a minister for our fall services, whom I would walk twenty miles barefooted to hear. The Sunday School extension work will continue with S. H. Askew at the helm and some community work will be started that will give a lot of fellows something to do besides let the trains through. The programs that Dave Roberts has planned for our Sunday night meetings are great, the only trouble being that there is but one Sunday in a week. Charley McCaskill promises to deliver our “Handbooks” complete with a Student Directory by the middle of September. We expect our missionary to Korea, Wm. P. Parker, to visit us this year, and we are going to show him some time when he comes.

Fellows, I could use up a bottle of ink

Big Success
Secretary Reports Active Interest on Members’ Part.

When the plan of the Greater Davidson Club was presented it sounded fine, or in the parlance of the day, “it listened well.” Then we began to wonder how it would work out. Whether the club would start off with enthusiasm; cool down to a languid existence and die an early death; or would it really amount to something. Well, it has more than amounted to something for it is a genuine, well-proven success beyond the highest hopes of its founders. It is a live, well-running organization, getting up more steam every day. Now, the above-mentioned statements are not mere idle fantasies of an idle brain, for they are borne out by many witnesses. In fact, we are beginning to think that everybody knows about the Greater Davidson Club and if you glance over the remaining paragraphs you will become convinced that its fame has spread far and wide.

The humble scribe of this article ought to know; for all this summer long he has been receiving letters from the members hot on the trail of some prospect and he has turned the names over to the office for catalogues and the like, and then frequently tried a long-range shot himself. So the secretary knows. The fellows themselves often comment on the club and its activities; so the student body knows. When you remember that the office force and faculty know you can easily see that everyone around and connected with the college knows. I am not sure about Enoch but the next time I see him I will put the question. You see the college knows. There has been one man on the road this summer where heretofore there have always been four, and everywhere he goes he writes back about the activities of the Greater Davidson Club. So the road man knows (although he goes married this week and may forget) and of course all Fresh know.

So when we get together in September don’t let us forget what we can and have done but use this summer's a foundation to build greater achievements for the G. D. C. There will be 400 of us and we want to work for the aim of the club. And that aim, fellow members, is this, lest you forget: “A Bigger and a Better Davidson,” through “The preservation of the best traditions and highest ideals of the college in the past. “Greater loyalty and co-operation of the students in all college activities. “The wider extension of the college's influence by student and alumni effort.”

The secretary hopes you have had a fine summer and looks forward with pleasure to seeing you the first day of the term, telling you about things that are going to happen at Davidson because of the Y. M. C. A. indoor athletics, student Sunday School classes, monthly receptions, a well-equipped lounging room, etc., etc. But isn’t this enough to win your support for the “Y” program? And do you know that YOU are the Y. M. C. A. Read again some of our plans for the year. Think what they mean to you and the other fellow. Then resolve to do your part “heartily as unto the Lord and not unto men.”

Yours for a year of work and happiness,

(Signed) Dwight M. Chalmers, President.

Where you see no good, silence is best—Anon.

work as, Alumni Athletic Association
Big Time Commencement.
Plan Great Things for Athletics.
New Coach at Opening
Major L. B. Crayton, Class '15, Succeeds Coach Fetzer.
Football Prospects Very Favorable.

This past commencement there was a goodly gathering of old men on the Hill and from all appearances they put in a very happy time reminiscing, meeting old friends and planning how they could best help the college. Their activities wound up in great style at a banquet Tuesday evening which was a big success from a culinary standpoint as well as being “a feast of reason and flow of soul.” There were several actions taken there that will be of particular interest to the undergraduates so we will outline them here.

The business part of the meeting was opened by the reading of the minutes of the previous year and then the old officers were re-elected for another term. These are Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr. of Charlotte, president; Rev. B. R.Lacy Crayton of the class of 1945. Here are a few things about him so that when you arrive on the Hill this September you will know him at least by reputation. He was an end on the football team and first base on the nine, both positions being played in a star manner by him. After he graduated in '15, he went to Fishburn School in Virginia and coached there for two years. This school is famous in Virginia for its athletic teams, and while there Crayton turned out championship clubs. It is quite a coincidence that he succeeded Coach "Bill" there and is now following him at Davidson. When the war broke out in 1917, Coach Crayton went into the service and was first lieutenant in the Piedmont battery that was recruited in the country near Davidson. So he went to France as a First Lieutenant in the Thirtieth Division, but his qualities as a leader were so marked that he rapidly rose to the rank of Major, being one of the youngest majors in the A.E.F. He returned to this country in the spring and will be here when college opens next month.

We have about the hardest schedule of any college in the South, but prospects look good for a winning team, or at least one that will give a fighting account of itself in the hardest season any Red and Black eleven faced. It is a little early to predict exactly about the eleven, but here are some of the men who will be on Sprunt Field when Coach Crayton calls for practice. Captain Spann will be at quarter, and as it has been said, Spann is a team in himself to start with. Then McAlister and Massey of last year's backfield will be here again and will give a good account of themselves. Pitts Douglas (the Giant Killer) will be better than ever this year, and McMasters at tackle needs no introduction. Sam Brady at guard will be the same old reliable Sam. Hammett, who played tackle on Clemson last year, looks good to us, and "Strong Man" Romfelt, just out of the service, will again wear Davidson colors. Some of last year's scrubs are out for the team and no mistake this season. Of these, McFadden, the two Mileys, Cornelson, LaFar, and Harris are the most promising. Besides these men mentioned, there are other fellows in school who have had football experience, and out of one hundred and seventy-five Freshmen, we will get a wealth of athletic material. So prospects look favorable, and all of us want to back the team with all of our interest and enthusiasm.

The association took action recommending that the alumni support the college weekly publication, the Davidsonian, both in interest and subscriptions, and this is bearing fruit in an increased number of subscriptions on the part of the alumni, according to the business manager, who dropped in to see us a few days ago. Then they took action to link up the alumni more closely with the athletic interests of the college. An athletic committee was elected and empowered to go ahead in this work. The plan adopted and put into operation was sanctioned by Dr. Douglas, faculty athletic representative, and so far it has given promise of great things, although still very young. The plan is simply this: Every alumnus who so desires to join the Alumni Athletic Association and pay at least a minimum fee of five dollars a year. This will entitle him to a ticket that will admit him to all Davidson contests. For some alumni, this will mean that they will get at least part of their money back in seeing games, but the vast majority rarely see a contest. Through this association, we hope to add at least a thousand dollars a year to our athletic treasury, and this will enable us to bring one more football game to the Hill every fall, eight or ten more basketball games in the winter, and to have about a dozen baseball games every spring on Sprunt Field. The undergraduate deserves to see his college team in action more frequently, and that is what we are trying our best to do. The secretary and treasurer, R. W. Miles, has gotten out a circular letter to the alumni, but of course, it is impossible to reach them all. These letters are beginning to get results, and every day now ten or fifteen dollars come in for this work, but we have a long way to go for that thousand. But it can be done, and here is a way that the members of the G.D.C. can be of real service to the student body. You have brothers, friends, and relatives who are alumni. See them at once, talk this to them, and urge them to subscribe at least five dollars to the association. Send the money to the treasurer at Davidson, and he will at once forward a membership card. So far, the subscriptions have ranged from five to one hundred dollars. You fellows can turn the trick and help in this matter so that our teams will be better equipped and that we will have more games right here on this old Hill.

One other way you can help the athletic situation: Get in touch with your home paper and see if they will not run our athletic stuff. If it is a live paper, they will be glad to do so, for our news is "live," and some of the largest papers in the South have said they will be glad to run it. This year we want to let people know that we are on the map. When you find out about this, please let the secretary of the Greater Davidson Club know in order that he can send them the necessary "dope" from time to time. We are planning a new era in athletics for Davidson, and every fellow is in it heart and soul. Don't forget to boost this to your alumni friends, and we will have such funds to work with that we will gladden Coach Crayton's heart and show him we are right behind him from the drop of the hat. Yours for a greater Davidson.

Football Schedule
Sept. 20—Davidson vs. Guilford at Winston-Salem, N.C.
Sept. 27—Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Wake Forest, N.C.
Oct. 4—Davidson vs. Clemson at Clemson, S.C.
Oct. 11—Davidson vs. Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 18—Davidson vs. University of South Carolina at Columbia, S.C.
Oct. 25—Davidson vs. V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 1—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Ga.
Nov. 8—Davidson vs. North Carolina A. & E. at Winston-Salem, N.C.
Nov. 22—Davidson vs. Presbyterian College of South Carolina at Davidson, N.C.
Nov. 27—Davidson vs. Furman at Greenville, S.C.

REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS
The Library, always well kept, will look like a new building inside when the boys return. The walls have been kalsomined and the tables freshened up. New oscillating desk fans will add to the comfort of the fellows while they peruse the magazines and daily papers. New furniture has been purchased for Chambers building, and new plumbing is being provided for North Wing Chambers. The dormitory windows have been washed, all floors scrubbed, and all rooms disinfected. The plumbing has been reset, and considerable improvements made in the Chemical Laboratory. The college house facing on Main Street, formerly occupied by Dr. J. L. Douglas, has been completely overhauled for Colonel Mueller. This now is one of the most attractive homes in town. Early in June, the College purchased the Alexander house, next to Mr. Jackson's, which is now being worked over for Prof. and Mrs. Wood. This house, when completed, will be modern and comfortable in every respect. The Bank of Davidson has purchased new office furniture and is having the same installed now. This long-needed improvement will be appreciated by the boys.

TENT MEETING
The most interesting event of the town life during the summer was the union evangelistic meeting held the latter part of August in a tent pitched on the tennis courts in the grove. Rev. L. D. Thompson, pastor of First Methodist Church, Statesville, did the preaching, and Rev. Mr. Allen, Granite Falls, N.C., led the singing. Tent prayer meetings were held for a week before the meeting opened, and a census of the town, including, of course, the mill villages, was taken to find out just who were professing Christians, and personal workers were appointed to urge these and all to attend and take an active part in the meetings. There are 90 who made a profession of their faith in Christ as their Savior. Many others reconsecrated themselves. It was a great meeting.

She—"Would you leave your home for me?"
He—"I'd leave a baseball game in the ninth inning with the score a tie."
Philadelphia Public Ledger.