Athletic News

A. and E. of N. C. in Charlotte Saturday when they were snowed under by the powerful team from the
Naval Academy and again when the University of N. C. vanquished them on a muddy field by a one-point margin.
Guilford and a team of sailors from Hampton Roads were both defeated by large scores and V. M. I. lost
to them by a score of 21 to 0. This last score is interesting because of the fact that V.
M. I. succeeded in winning a 14 to 7 victory from Davidson on the Saturday before they met State College.
These scores would seem to indicate that the Wildcats will be defeated by at least three or four touchdowns. It
must be remembered, however, that they played the Cadets with four regulars out of the lineup.

The Davidson team will be outweighed at least 15 pounds to the man, probably more than 20 pounds in the
line. With the probable return of Black, Hammett, and LaFar to the lineup, however, they will be in better shape
for this game than they have been for any of the last three contests. Our next enemies experienced little difficulty
in whipping V. M. I. last week. Coach Fetzer's aggregation trounced the flying Cadets to the tune of 21 to
0. Gurley, at quarter, seemed to bear the brunt of the attack.

N.C. State.... 21
V.M.I...... 0
V.M.I...... 14
Davidson 7

Looks bad on paper, but cheer up all D. C. rooters and take consolation in the fact that Black, Johnston,
LaFar, and Brady were out of the game on account of injuries, but they will be in with that old
gridiron fight when the Wildcats face N. C. State Saturday.

Princeton fell before the terrible onslaught of West Virginia by the score of 25 to 0. Another case of David
and Goliath. Centre College whipped Virginia 49 to 7. The University is finding the going rough this year. Win or
lose, the Wildcats expect to fight until the last whistle sounds, and Fetzer’s men will know that they have been
in a scrap. The whole Davidson student body with their band will accompany the team to Charlotte.

The probable line-up is as follows:

Davidson. Position. N. C. State.
Davis....... LE..... Kirkpatrick
Hammett.... LT..... Wethers
Romefelt.... LG..... Floyd
Brady....... C...... Whitlacker
LaFar....... RG..... Young
McMaster.... RT..... Ripple
Douglas..... RE..... Homewood
Spann....... QB..... Gurley
Shepherd.... LH..... Pearson
Wieradden... FB..... Murray

INTER-DORMITORY BASKETBALL SUMMARY

Team. Points. Opponents.
Watts....... 216 86
South Wing Chambers... 103 166
North Wing Chambers... 77 118
Louisiana... 90 197

Individual Summary (First Ten):
Roberts (SW)...... 68
Hall (W).......... 57
Doubles (G)....... 47
Crawford (R)...... 42
Oltman (W)........ 40
Brice (G)......... 38
Freeman (SW)...... 35
Covington (NW).... 34
Mauze (R)......... 33
Askew (G)......... 32

Although the Generals made no first downs, they braced when their goal line was in danger. Georgia, 24-15. After the
movies, several oranges and apples rolled from the floor and Mr. Miles called the teams together with the first whistle.
For the first three minutes, it looked as if Georgia had the edge on Watts, but their shots went wild,
and Watts caged the first two goals of the game. At the end of the first half, Watts was leading
12-7. In the second half, Finley was changed to center and Roberts to forward, and this rearrangement seemed to work
a great deal better. However, after six minutes of the second half had been played, Georgia had cut down Watts’
lead to only two points, but after the time out called for Wood, the teamwork of Watts counted, and they
rapidly increased the lead. The game was one of the snappiest and most hotly contested.Cleanest games ever played on the
hill, and though there were quite a few fouls, all of them were technical, not a personal foul being called.
The teamwork of Watts was the main factor in her victory; Georgia’s defense was very strong, but her offense was
weak. For Watts, Oltman and Roberts played the best game; for Georgia, Chalmers and N. W. CHAMERS 14; Furman 21;
Citadel 6. S. W. CHAMBERS 13.

Our opponents for the last game on our schedule also won from Wake Forest the week before by 39 to
7.

What proved to be one of the closest and hardest-fought games of the Inter-dormitory series was won by North Wing
against South Wing by a score of 14 to 13. The game was very exciting on account of the close
score and the winner was uncertain until the whistle blew. These two teams came out even in the series, both
winning two games apiece. Rumple is also in this class, so there are three teams tied for third place. The
tie will probably be played off.

Line-up: The University of Georgia met her first defeat of the season at the hands of Auburn. The Plainsmen managed
to score a touchdown in the first minute of play, as the result of a 65-yard run by Howard.

“Monk” Younger’s terrible Hampden-Sidney Tigers licked William and Mary 7 to 3. It looks as if the Presbyterians are in
line for the Inter-Collegiate championship.

North Wing. Position. South Wing.
Oltman (8) left forward Doubles (2)
Brown (23) right forward Orman
Covington (8) left forward McCreary (6)
Cornel center Freeman (7)
Roberts (8) center Chalmers (2)
Farmer right guard Brice (3)
Bernhardt right guard Neel
Price left guard King (2)
Shenck (4) left guard McKeithen

Substitutions—Georgia: Tuller for Wood; referee: Mr. Miles; time of halves: 15 minutes.

On your feet you Davidson men,
Show that Wildcat “pep” again;
Drown out N. C. State’s applause,
And Saturday—fight for D. C.’s cause.

PROGRAM FOR SATURDAY.
Pre-Kick-Off Status of Saturday Struggle:
Dinner promptly at 12 o'clock.
Report for assembly on battalion parade ground at 12:30.
Train for R. O. T. C. and others leaves at 12:50.
Rooms at Selwyn for changing clothes after parade.
Men should have suitcases ready and properly labeled at Armory by 9 a.m.
Students will sit together.

RUMPLE 24—LOUISIANA 16.
On Wednesday afternoon Rumple defeated Louisiana in a hard-fought and interesting game to the tune of 24 to 16. Each
team showed signs of good teamwork and accurate passing due to the hard games each has played. Rumple caged a
basket after several minutes of play and held the lead the remainder of the game, although Louisiana by pretty shooting
held Rumple’s lead to several baskets, and many times threatened to pass their opponent's score. These two teams have shown
remarkable fighting spirit although they are limited in numbers.

If comparative scores may be relied upon, the Wildcats will be fighting against big odds when they meet the lads
from N. C. State College in Charlotte next Saturday. They are by no means ready to concede the victory yet,
however, and a close and interesting game is expected. Fetzer's team has made a wonderful showing in their games thus
far. Only twice have they been defeated; once being enrolled—The Tar Heel.

UNIVERSITY OF N. C.
The Commerce School is quite an innovation in the university curriculum, with one hundred being enrolled.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

ARGONNE ANEW, by Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y.
The name “Argonne” is used by courtesy of the Argonne Shirt Co., Philadelphia.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

The Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., R. B. Beard, Assistant Cashier

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies

See Us Next to Pressing Club

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.

See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

FELLOWS
I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South.
Yours truly, E. N. BOOKER

Jetton Drug Co.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address
W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.B., President

Watts
