2 f= The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers..... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts..... Assignment Editor

The Staff:
B. F. Shields
S. T. McCloy
Emery Flynn
W. M. Currie
E. G. Lilly
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Craig

Management:
T. C. Stones... Business Manager
E. A. Torner..... Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander... Assistant Manager
C. J. Matthews....... Assistant Manager
J. B. Price... Assistant Manager
G. D. Sample... Assistant Manager

Reporters for this issue are:
M. R. Doubles, H. A. Hill, J. P. Price, A. M. Mitchell, J. M. Richards, J. W. Phillips, J. F.
Clarke, W. W. Moore, W. P. Cumming, T. F. Martin, L. G. Calhoun, J. C. McCaskill, T. H. Spence, R.
R. McIlwaine, W. R. Booth, R. C. Garth.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

The R. O. T. C. has proved one of the easiest tickets in the curriculum so far. Cheer up! Only
116 more days till Commencement!

It is easy to assume a habit; but when you try to cast it off, it will take skin and
all —J. B.

Have you thought of some suitable memorial to set up on the campus for the Davidson men who have fallen
in the service?

Announcement by the Faculty that there will be no Senior Speaking this year received with thirty-two profound sighs of relief.

Now let's ALL get behind the Varsity and back it through a victorious spring of basketball.

Do you stand positively or negatively for improvement for Davidson?

Fellows, let’s show a little more consideration for the operators at the “Y" movies. They're doing their best, and can't
help it when a film breaks. They're helping out as a consideration; it’s a cinch they’re not doing it for
their health! The shows are improving all the time, as the men become more familiar with the machine, so let’s
cut out the growling at the operators. Remember, it's a free show anyway.

FOR OR AGAINST IT?

In the Scriptures it is said that he that is not “for” is “against,” that “lukewarmness” is the same as
opposition. We do not believe that it is objectionable to quote this passage as regards religious and secular matters on
a college campus, as it is done with all reverence, and for a good cause.

That attitude of indifference or superior amusement which some college men hold toward many of the campus activities, may seem
to some perfectly harmless, but have you ever thought over it a moment, and considered just what effect such an
attitude may have? Do you know fellows who never pretend to offer any support or assistance, but cynically look on,
always ready to offer criticism, but never furnishing suggestions or friendly advice? They want to get the benefit or amusement
from everything, but never want to help, and are the first ones to do the knocking. “This thing is run
rotten” and “that thing isn't worth a cent”—while all the time some fellows are plugging away trying to make “this
thing” and “that thing” a success. How can they, when there are deadbeats who kick instead of push?

Did you ever ask yourself why some men try to hold down “thankless” jobs? There’s no compensation or honor attached
to them, yet there's lots of work. There isn't a year but what there are some fellows who hold such
an attitude of indifferent cynicism toward the Literary Societies, the Publications, the Y. M. C. A. and other activities, and
in some cases even Athletics. Do you think such a spirit shows loyalty, sportsmanship, or courtesy?

NOTICE TO ALUMNI.

A number of the alumni have suggested that The Davidsonian carry a larger and more interesting alumni department, which we
know is a splendid idea. But without the co-operation of alumni we will not be able to get sufficient news
to make this possible. So we wish to make an appeal to all old Davidson men who would like to
hear of the doings of their college mates: please send in to The Davidsonian all interesting items and news of
alumni you may lay your hands on. The Davidsonian has that as one of its objects: to keep the alumni
in touch with one another. So if some old Davidson man changes his address, or marries, or gains some honor
or prominence, or does something else worthy of note: please let us know about it. Help us make this alumni
department a success.

TED SULLIVAN IS HEARD ON THE NATIONAL GAME

Ted Sullivan, “Father of Baseball,” and the man who knows more baseball than any other man in the world, was
an unexpected and very interesting visitor on the campus Monday night. He brought with him a number of stereopticon slides
with which he traced the development of this national game from its infancy. He impressed upon his audience that although
there was a national art in playing the game, the secret of why so many of the players of world-wide
fame reach such heights, is clean living, and observing the laws of nature. The main feature of the evening was
theIllustrated lecture of the New York Giants’ and Chicago White Sox's trip around the world in 1914. Ted Sullivan was
one of the chief promoters of this trip and told many interesting incidents connected with the trip. On one occasion,
he said that Lord Kitchener turned to him, after seeing the grace and skill with which the American youth played
the game, and said: “Mr. Sullivan, it seems to me that a nation with such manhood as this could never
be defeated in war with another country.” I replied: “You are right, Lord Kitchener, we will not be defeated." Many
humorous incidents occurring in England were also related. At one time Mr. Sullivan was asked how the “snake ball” was
thrown. Mr. Sullivan, not missing a chance to have some fun, replied that the man who threw the ball had
been bitten by a snake in his childhood days and some of the wiggle remained in his arm. This story
was taken in all seriousness and appeared in English papers the next day. Mr. Sullivan's lecture was thoroughly enjoyed by
the student body and his kindness in visiting Davidson is appreciated.

The Forum

LET THERE BE LIGHTS.

Davidson learned many new things under the direction of Uncle Sam. Not the least of these was the fact that
electric lights in the dormitory halls not only increased the comfort of the inmates but also added to the pleasing
appearance of the campus. Formerly the hall wires and sockets have been used exclusively as dust gatherers and targets for
baseball artists while the weary student stumbled blindly up the stairs. Since the spring term began Mr. Jackson has decided
to again fill these sockets, and now every hall is brightly lighted. The fate of these light globes rests with
the common sense of the student body. What is going to be their fate? Will they mysteriously disappear to swell
some honorless fellow’s miscellaneous collection? Will they be used as a reserve supply for fellows who are careless with their
own lights? Already some of these globes have disappeared. Let's stop it. There are several reasons why every hall light
should be kept burning in its proper socket. The comfort and “mobility” of the entire student body is materially increased.
In case of fire the first thing to be done would be to switch on the current. This means of
safety and of preventing a stampede is absolutely useless without globes in the halls. The attractiveness of the campus is
noticeably increased both for students and visitors. And finally, every globe that disappears from the halls is replaced out of
our own pockets. In a few days those who “watched their steps” last year will be receiving a refund on
the Damage Fee. If hall lights disappear there will be no refund at the end of the year. Let's do
our part towards making Davidson beautiful and towards conserving the “pin money” of the other fellow.

FRANKLIN.

THE BIRTH OF BASKETBALL.

Basketball's twenty-seventh birthday finds the game flourishing as never before, and crowding baseball and track athletics for popular favor. It
was over a quarter of a century ago, namely, January 15, 1892, that the first match game of basketball was
played, in Springfield, Mass., between two class teams of the Y.M.C.A. training school. The sport was invented by Dr. J.
A. Naismith, then of the Springfield institution, but now of the University of Kansas. It is estimated that at least
a quarter of a million persons are playing basketball as members of regular clubs, and the sport has spread all
over the United States and Canada, and to Europe, South Africa, and the Far East. In the early days of
the game there were as many as twenty men on a side, but since 1896 there have been five to
a team. The rules have been standardized of late years, and basketball, in its improved form, has become the great
American game.

Mills Won Carnegie Medal.

Pittsburg, Pa.—The Carnegie hero fund commission, at its fifteenth annual meeting held here today, awarded a silver medal and a
pension to the widow of the late Arthur L. Mills, Greenville, S.C., who lost his life while attempting to save
Edward B. Johnson from drowning at Hendersonville, N.C., last June. Mr. Mills graduated from Davidson in 1903 and was one
of Davidson's most beloved alumni.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial At the same place with new equipment Hood Norton
Next to Post Office DAVIDSON, N.C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D. President

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special Designs and Estimates Furnished
on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson 17
Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.
