2 The DAVIDSONIAN, Aug. 20, 1919

The Davidsonian | College Year: unity and brotherhood between the college man and the Freshman.

Published every Wednesday of the by the Students of Davidson. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
D. W. Roberts ........ Editor-in-Chief
J. E. Cassell ........ Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr. ... Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck ........ Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill ...... Alumni Editor

The Staff:
D. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

Management:
C. J. Mathews ...... Business Manager
L. L. McAllister .... Circulation Manager
C. H. Long ......... Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson ....... Assistant Manager
A. M. Mitchell ...... Assistant Manager

1920:
S. H. Askew
T. H. Spence

1921:
J. R. Walker
W. P. Cumming
A. M. Mitchell

1922:
O. M. Dugger, Jr.
M. R. Doubles
J. M. Richards
J. R. Price

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

This issue of The Davidsonian has been edited by Mr. Jackson and Mr. Miles. We confess we are amateurs at the game but hope it will serve its purpose and help fill in the gap until the regular student force gets busy next month.

We are sorry to report that Mr. David Worth Roberts, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, has been in the hospital in Wilmington with fever. However, he is improving and will be with us at opening, we trust. The editorial on this page was written by him while in the hospital and mailed in to us. Best wishes, Dave, for a speedy recovery.

THE PRESENT DAY COLLEGE MAN’S ATTITUDE TOWARD THE FRESHMAN.

The attitude of the College man toward the High School graduate who enters College is rapidly changing. This is especially true in Democratic America. The time when the new man was thought of as the “Rat” is rapidly passing away, and in many States wiser heads both in College and out have seen the foolishness and disastrous result of thoughtless hazing, and in our own State especially this form of petty College tyranny has been abolished by law.

This custom of hazing and the attitude of the old college man toward the newcomer is rapidly giving place to the new attitude of helpfulness and brotherhood. This can be said especially of the American colleges where the Democratic spirit of the new age is rapidly gripping the hearts and minds of the many students within their walls. Davidson College has not been long in grasping this new idea of friendliness between the old and the new students. Not many years ago the new man was the blunt of every joke, he was everybody’s toady and was forever at the end of someone’s boot. Today he may enjoy the joke with others: his life is not made miserable by unbearable and unreasonable chores, and he is welcomed into the company of older college men.

In the old college days the Freshman was barred from many college activities, but today he may from the start enter into and enjoy without fear any of them. On the athletic field he has the privilege of trying out for any team and if he shows superior strength and ability he is placed by the coaches wherever he is best fitted. In the Literary Societies if he has the ability of oratory and logical thinking he may attain a place on the Inter-Collegiate teams and contest with other colleges for honors. On the campus and in the dormitories he may “walk with ease,” never being fearful after the snow storm to wait.

“Ed Cunningham, to grow in the hearts and minds of the men of Davidson and the college men of America until there exists a spirit of unity and brotherhood between the college man and the Freshman.

OLD MEN RETURNING.

The men listed below have been in correspondence with the office with a view to returning to college this fall. Most of them have written definitely that they are coming:
C. W. Worth
D. L. Freeman
T. A. Lacy
B. W. Romefelt
S. M. Query
W. W. Roberts
F. M. Morgan
R. L. Deaver
Jas. Stoffard
D. R. Nimocks
A. C. Wood
W. W. Carter
L. L. Wilson
LeRoy Burney
P. B. Carwile
J. K. Fleming
W. C. Hodgin
C. J. Hollandsworth
K. B. McCutchion
J. N. Penick
M. A. Sisk
W. C. Smith
W. L. Roddey
W. C. Neel
W. M. McLeod
R. M. McGirt

DAVIDSON MEN AT CAMP SAPPHIRE.

Camp Sapphire at Brevard, N. C., had a liberal sprinkling of Davidson men as councillors this summer. Coach Fetzer’s camp was more popular than ever this year, there being 198 boys present when the camp opened the first of July. To help in the running of the business end Professor Reed had charge of the office and A. P. Ormand did the stenographic work. The other Davidson men were Spann, Chalmers, Bob and Romefelt, “Jap” Cummins, Shields and “Bobby” Long. From all accounts they are having just as good a time as anyone else.

Several Davidson boys have been regular campers. Macon Reed, Jr., Joe and Riges McConnell and Ernest Bohanon taking advantage of this splendid camp. They had a big time and came back enthusiastic admirers of “Captain Bill” and the manner in which he conducts the camp.

There are rumors that Brevard is not so far in the mountains that our representatives haven’t had opportunities to keep in trim for Senior and Junior speakings but about that you had better quiz them.

HEARD AROUND THE STATE.

Every once in a while there drifts into the office news of other colleges around the state. Below you will find a few items of interest to us.

The following from the North Carolina Tar Heel: “The campus Cabinet has conceived the idea of instituting the ‘point system,’ now in use at Davidson, among the student activities here.”

Wake Forest will have Rev. Mr. Turner next year as “College Pastor.” This position is similar to our general secretaryship, although they are giving it a different name. Mr. Turner is an alumnus of Wake Forest and in his day a great pitcher and tennis crack. He was in the overseas service of the “Y” and then a chaplain in the Thirtieth division. He is a prince of a fellow and Wake Forest is to be congratulated on securing him for work among the students.

This year Mr. Ed. King will be the new “Y” secretary at A. & E. Year before last Mr. King was student secretary at University of South Carolina and made quite a success of the work there. A. & E. is indeed fortunate in getting two men like King and Fetzer this year.

This was heard at Blue Ridge. The coach of a famous Virginia college told his men: “There are three colleges in the U. S. that stand out in my mind as having a distinctive ‘spirit’ all their own. Our honor system, student government and constitution.

SHADES OF MILTON.

This is rather a sad story, so if you are not feeling especially bright and cheerful, start it not. It deals with a subject that is quite gay, in fact quite spry and festive but the discourse does not carry out the promise of the joy-producing title. The subject is found among the lines of our friend, the poet, who was not exactly light and frivolous in his words and actions but at that time loosened up considerably. You remember how they go:

“Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee
Jest, and youthful jollity,
Quips, and Cranks, and wanton wiles,
Nods, and becks, and wreathed smiles,”

At that time the nymph was a good sport but now I am afraid that the aforesaid fairy creature has changed her nymph-like qualities and has become a regular Jinx. For good friends there seems to be no carrier of any kind at all to bring our Quips and Cranks to us. It is a case of “vain deluding joys.” All of which being interpreted is simply this: Throughout the summer the fellows have been writing in to find out when the annual would put in its appearance. Some have started tracers but as we go to press thereis no news concerning it of a definite nature. Here's hoping that when you arrive it will be waiting for you and we can say to our fears on the subject, “Hence loathed melancholy.”

NEW MEN WILL BE MET WHEN THEY ARRIVE.

“Doug” McArn and his Fresh Reception Committee are planning to meet the new men when they arrive and see that they find their way to the office, room, boarding house, and other points of interest to a man when he first arrives. So if you are a new man, keep your eye peeled for some “receptive” looking fellows when you hit this town.

They are also planning a big Freshman reception on Monday night after opening, but about that more anon. Just rest assured it will be well worth attending both from the standpoint of “pep” injected into you and the “eats” that you can propel into yourself. So “au revoir” until the 3rd and 4th of September and when you hear that magic call “Daaa-vidson” you will know that the Dummy Line is “in the yard” and we will be there to meet you.

NEW TENNIS CLUB.

This summer a tennis club was organized on the campus and some “crack” tennis unloosed for the first time. Next week a tournament will be held and the winner will meet all comers in the student body next month. The members were pretty well bunched as to playing ability at the start but since Ormond “Minor” has purchased a new racquet he is a rather dangerous contender for the cup. The officers of the club are as follows: Mr. F. L. Jackson, president; Mr. R. W. Miles, vice-president; Mrs. R. W. Miles, secretary; Mr. A. C. Ormond, treasurer. The membership of the club is composed of Messrs. Jackson, Miles, and Ormond and Mrs. Miles. The club frequently entertains their friends on the court.

A squad of rookies were shooting at a target, but no one seemed to be accurate enough to hit it. An officer who happened to be passing stopped, took a rifle from one of the men, and started to fire at the target. His first shot was a miss, and, turning to Private Jones, he said, “That is the way you shoot.” His second was also a miss, and, turning to Private Brown, he said, “And that is the way you shoot.” His third shot was a bull's eye. Turning to the men, he said, “And that is the way I shoot.”—Judge.

Do you take exercises after your bath? Yes; I generally step on the soap as I get out, then “slip in” for fear of being molested. In fact, his life has been made one of happiness and contentment by the spirit of brotherhood which has changed the attitude of the older college man toward him.

By the way, we don’t want to get puffed up but there are others watching us and we have a standard to live up to. These colleges are Yale, Hampden-Sidney, and Davidson. He wasn't at H-, —Exchange.

One Lesson of the War. Nothing but war could have taught us that the Kaiser didn’t raise his boy to be a soldier—Greenville (S. C.) Piedmont.

We hope that this spirit will continue. A little outside the state but it will fit in here. The University of New Mexico wrote asking us for a description of Davidson.

FINANCIAL VALUE OF AN EDUCATION.

In 1917 Dr. A. Caswell Ellis, professor of Philosophy of Education, made an extensive investigation to summarize the financial value of an education. His paper was published by the Department of Interior, Bureau of Education, as Bulletin No. 22. Some interesting statistics taken from this bulletin are printed below. If information along this line were available for this or last year, with a much higher scale of salaries in vogue, a still better showing would be made for higher education.

How Education Pays

Salaries in the New York Bridge Department:
- In positions demanding only reading, writing, and arithmetic, $962.00.
- In positions demanding High-School and Commercial courses, $1729.00.
- In positions demanding High-School and two or three years of College or Technical education, $2400.00.

Which position are you preparing yourself to fill? Continue Your Education.

Education and Statesmanship

Less than 1 per cent. of American men are College graduates. Yet this 1 per cent. of College graduates has furnished:
- 65 per cent. of our Presidents
- 96 per cent. of the Members of Congress
- 47 per cent. of the Speakers of the House
- 54 per cent. of the Vice-Presidents
- 62 per cent. of the Secretaries of State
- 50 per cent. of the Secretaries of Treasury
- 67 per cent. of the Attorneys General
- 69 per cent. of the Justices of Supreme Court

At the present time the President, Vice-President, Speaker of the House, all but two of the Cabinet, 69 out of 96 Senators, 305 out of 435 Representatives, and all the Justices of the Supreme Court are College trained men. The problems of reconstruction after the war will demand a larger number of better-trained and educated men and women. Will you be equipped to take your part? Continue Your Education.

Distinguished Men of America and their Education

- With No Schooling of 5 million, only 31 attained distinction.
- With Elementary Schooling of 33 million, 808 attained distinction.
- With High-School Education of 2 million, 1245 attained distinction.
- With College Education of 1 million, 5768 attained distinction.

The child with no schooling has one chance in 150,000 of performing distinguished service; with elementary education, he has four times the chance; with High-School education, 67 times the chance; with College education 800 times the chance. MAKE SURE THAT YOUR CHANCE IS THE BEST. Continue Your Education.

Education and Business Success (Results obtained by Western Electric Company during a period of ten years)
- Men who make good without a College education: 10 per cent.
- Men without a College education who fail: 90 per cent.
- Men with College education who make good: 90 per cent.
- Men with College education who fail: 10 per cent.

Which one of these groups will eventually include you? Continue Your Education.

OPEN FORUM

Nothing Doing this Time

BOARDING HOUSES.

The information about boarding houses given here is as complete as can be obtained at this time. There will be at least one other house ready for boarders by the time college opens:
- Mrs. N. L. Barnes, W. C. Neel, manager. Price $17.00.
- Miss Rosa Shumaker, T. H. Wilson, manager. Price $20.00.
- Mrs. L. R. Brady, A. D. McArn, manager. Price $20.00.
- Mrs. W. H. McNeill, A. L. Wilson, manager. Price $22.50.
- Mrs. L. B. Long, P. G. Sutton, manager. Price $22.50.
- Mrs. U. S. Abbott, H. M. Spann, manager.
- Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Williamson.
- Mrs. N. T. Smith.
- Mrs. M. E. Manning.

MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN.

Most of the boys have been appraised through the Church papers of the campaign for raising a million dollars for the Presbyterian schools of North Carolina. Dr. M. E. Melvin, field secretary of the Committee of Christian Education and Ministerial Relief, is manager of the campaign and has associated with him ten capable and experienced men in this line of work. It is planned to make practically an every member canvas of the fifty thousand Presbyterians in North Carolina. Davidson's share of the million will be $300,000.00. Here's to the success of the campaign!

TRAIN SCHEDULE.

For the information of the boys coming through Charlotte we would remind you that there are but two trains a day from Charlotte to Davidson. The first leaves Charlotte at 8 A. M., the other at 2 P. M. The Jitney, when it runs, schedule uncertain, leaves the Buford Hotel at 4 P. M. and at 11 P. M. Officials of the Southern Railway have assured us that extra coaches will be provided for September 2nd, 3rd, and 4th. It may not be amiss to remind some of the students to have their names on their trunks as well as having it checked. Almost every year in the past one or more trunks have been lost.