The DAVIDSONIAN, March 26, 1919

With Our Alumni

Sam Keesler Awarded D. S. C. Posthumously
Story of His Last Flight.

Upon the recommendation of Capt. Harry W. Todd, commanding headquarters 24th aero squadron, first army observation group, a Distinguished Service Cross will be posthumously awarded Lieut. Sam R. Keesler, '17, of Greenwood, Miss., who fell in a fierce air contest mortally wounded within the German lines, October 8, 1918.

The story of Lieutenant Keesler’s gritty fight after he had been wounded several times through his body, and of his later tragic death, is related in a letter to Gen. S. R. Keesler, his father, by Lt. H. W. Riley, who accompanied him in the flight when they encountered the German planes:

“In the late afternoon of the 8th of October, 1918, Lieutenant Keesler and myself were on a mission east of Verdun. Shortly after we crossed the lines and just before we had covered the assigned territory, four Fokkers came from the French side of the line and attacked us. I am certain Lieutenant Faison shot down the leader as he attacked first, and I saw him go down in a deep nose dive. The other three E. A. opened fire immediately and crippled one aileron, shot away my rudder controls and part of my elevators. Lieutenant Keesler fired all the way down and after we crashed, although he had been shot three times through the chest and three times through the abdomen. The three Huns hung over us at a low altitude and kept firing at us after we were clear of the wreck. Lieutenant Keesler was hit in the hip before we could get under cover. From 5:15 until 12 o'clock that night, when we reached a dressing station, Lieutenant Keesler received no medical attention and although he must have suffered terribly, he showed wonderful self-control and won the admiration of all the German soldiers who came to look at him. Lieutenant Keesler died the following noon.”

This wonderful heroism is not to his Davidson admirers a surprise. We who have witnessed Sam on the athletic field, in the dormitories, and in the classroom, look upon this as a thing that could only be natural with him, and a thing that we have rather expected to hear when the more complete news of his death should come in. The courage that is displayed under trying circumstances is but a revelation of the true man at all times. And, for this reason, Davidson friends are proud indeed to hear of this honor to one whom they have always known as a hero, one whose memory is a point of pride.

INTERESTING LETTER FROM W. C. NEEL, EX-'19

The following letter has been received from W. C. Neel, ex-'19, telling of some of the points of historic interest in France which he has recently visited:

Aix-les-Bains, France, January 19, 1919.

Here is a place that I never heard of until about one month ago when the first quota from our division came here on a seven-day leave of absence. But I have found out a good deal about the place within the last three days, enough that I shall not forget it soon.

The place is evidently a favorite summer resort for tourists. There are about 75 hotels, some of them quite magnificent. The one I am stopping at, or rather the one to which I was consigned, because the government is defraying all expenses, the Splendide, is one of the first class and I think about the best used for soldiers. It is the second time I have slept in a real bed since leaving home. The other time was at the Hotel McAlpine, in New York City. The Y. M. C. A. is occupying the finest building in town, the Casino. There is some sort of entertainment going on here throughout the day and until midnight. The army chaplain stationed here preached an excellent sermon this morning. But there is such a difference in the crowd that attends religious services and the one that turns out for movies and vaudeville. That made the sixth...time that I have been present at the theater and every other time the house was packed. There are three balconies and this morning at the service the ground floor was just about half filled. There are several trips to places of interest in or near the town, to which "Y" men lead parties. I have taken two such trips. The first was about two miles out over old Roman roads to an old castle, designated as the "haunted castle." Thence we proceeded a mile farther on to the "Gorges." This gorge is 100 feet deep and 300 yards long. There is also an old sawmill located there. The next trip was to the historic points of the old city of Aix here in the town. We first visited an old Gothic stairway built in the sixteenth century. Then nearby is the old temple erected to Diana in 123 B.C. The museum is in this building and contains some very good paintings together with quite a collection of stones dug up in excavations about the city. Nearby stands an old Roman arch built 200 years after the temple. The arch is of stone and apparently has not budged an inch. Then we were taken to the old Roman public baths built in 125 B.C. This is a peculiar looking bathhouse and contains a pool which is the oldest one that there is any record of. Originally there were seven streams of warm water issuing from the foot of the mountains. In 1865 some Italian engineers decided to try and locate the source of these streams. They tunneled about 300 feet underground and located the source. Now there is a well or basin from which issues one stream which is conveyed to the present public bath building and separated into sulphur and alum waters. This water is, of course, claimed to have great curative value. I took a bath in the water just as it comes from the mountain.

Wilton C. Neel, Corporal Wilton C. Neel, Headquarters Det., 306th Engineers.

Commencement will be May 25-28. Let all alumni turn their eyes toward this reunion!

Lieut. Davis W. Lane, ex-'17, of the Engineers Corps, has been discharged and has returned to resume the work of Chemist in Jacksonville, Fla.

"Darling, I have had something trembling on my lips for the past few days, and I feel that I ought to—"
She: "Oh, don’t shave it off; I just love it."—Ex.

C. R. F. Beall, ex-'18, is studying medicine at Vanderbilt University.

A. P. Saunders, '18, spent Monday on the Hill. "Pete" has been teaching.

Hugh Aiken, '18, and Locke M. Currie, '18, are still doing chemical work at Niagara Falls.

Lieut. Stuart Gilchrist, '15, motored up from Charlotte on Thursday.

Alumni, remember the class reunions at Commencement!

Sgt. Leslie H. Patterson, ex-'18, has returned from France and his unit will be shortly demobilized at Camp Meade, Md. "Pat" writes that he will be here at Commencement, and we know he will have his marvelous tales of war, women, and wine. Those who remember his 118-page letter know that the French mademoiselles will especially be an absorbing subject with him. Pat expects to complete his senior work toward the A.B. degree here next year.

PROF. GARNANT WILL NOT RETURN NEXT YEAR

Professor Garnant has accepted the chair of Modern Languages at Emory and Henry College, Emory, Va. The whole student body regrets that he will not be here next year, for his cheerfulness and methods have won our hearts. He will have our very best wishes for his success at Emory and Henry. Professor Garnant has been filling Dr. T. W. Lingle’s place while he was absent in the war work of the Y. M. C. A.

Every morning that we drill it seems like Soph. Math. is getting harder and harder to get off.

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

——EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR——

ED. MELLON CO.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS BALLS, MITS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES

Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS

L. B. LONG

HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold