THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

Their duty to see the Wildcats in action straights from W. C. Hodgin, 6-1, 7-5:

PEANUT PARCHER in Winston canvassed the greater part of Roberts went forward one winning from The Sel: Hotel the college
with a pair of shoes on Friday Calhoun, 6-1, 6-4: Harris struck defeat in Gordon McKelden: Liston got two shoes
for the necessary shekels to enable while Fuller was winning the other, 6- them to make the journey to the
metrop- 3, 4-6, 6-3: High pocket Steibich put olis of the tobacconists. The shoes were Fraser out of running, 6-1,
6-1: Bradley all O. K. with one exception: they were gave Harvey only one game: Hamilton not mates, got a
win from Miller, 6-3, 7-5; Mauze lost to A. C. Ormand 6-3, 1-6, 6-2, and Extract from local Bulletin Board:
Boulware closed the initial round by winning 6-1, 6-1 from Knox. One Lakeside tennis racket made by In two extra-inning
sets Davidson A. G. Spalding and bro. on new athletic sent Mahood to the wall, 10-8, 11-9. field where Private
hard Boy plays. This was the hardest fought contest thus Come to No. 10 Chambers and describe far played. Martin
stayed in with a 6-3, it and give liberal reward amounting to 9-7, win from Gilchrist; Spence drew a FIRE
PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, conven- ient to railroad sta- tions, street cars, busi- ness and shopping cen-
ters. cost of racket and get same. 6-3, 6-4 win over Price. Murphy got thru safely playing C. M. Streibich;
A. C. Ormand made Gaither go, 6-2, 10-8, in order to win; Morris had little Zeb Morris announces that he
has lost trouble with Matthews, 6-0, 6-2; Hall the balance off his gun. Liberal reward came thru over Wilkinson, 6-3,
6-2; W. offered and no questions asked. G. McKeldin did not hurt himself to win from Liston by a twelve
to nothing Freshman: “Yes this sweater cost fif- count and Bradley came out winner over teen dollars and I’d sure
like to have a J. M. McCutchen. nickel of it now.”

Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

The meeting of the Phi Society, Sat- urday night, was kept a profound se- cret from the most of its
members.

It seems that the coal strikers struck a tough proposition.

Our new Fall fashions. The only problem is to keep our lines full, to get the good stuff we've ordered.
Buy now and you will have no regrets.

He: “You say you phoned at noon, was the night or day operator in?” Him: “I don’t know.”

PLAY TENNIS WITH Peanut Parcher Bureau, Winston-Salem, N. C. By Leased Postal Card Service.

Now every night we hear Those dark-town strutters brawl.

Fresh Greene to Boney, who has on one coat and is carrying another: “What ‘tv you got an extra coat
for?” Boney: “So I can put it on when the one I'm wearing wears out.”

Prominent freshman announces they have a pasture at home larger than Prince Albert Park.

Since it’s gotten cold its a choice of keeping your windows up and freezing or keeping them down and suffocating.

Another shipment of young men’s Overcoats in the very latest models at $25.00, $29.50, $39.50, and $49.50.

Spalding Tennis Equipment: Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send
for catalog, A. G. SPALDING & Bros. THE COMMISSARY CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Speed up and get your pick early. No trouble about selling.

Dick and Hall argue over whether a certain car is a Cadillac or a Limousine.

“Which way is the Y?” was the dom- inant question of the day.

If you have anything for the peanut parcher mail it to us; we like to get a letter now and
then as well as anyone.

I wonder if there is a pied piper in the band. There is urgent need for such an artist in
Georgia according to advices from those who room there.

“Darkness Visible” had spot-light illumination compared with second floor Georgia after nightfall.

In days gone by someone has said “It pays to advertise.” With your permission may we add that now economizing
pays quite well, so why not get a bunch at one crack?

Belk Brothers are pleased to announce McGirt busts forth.into the commercial world with a system of “firsts” in the line
of photographs. Why don't someone sell the likenesses of prominent men on the campus: Bill and I were waiting at
the post-office; Bill was excitedly rattling a five-dollar bill in his pocket, when he turned to me suddenly and said:
“Jack, what did you think of Keith's last night?” “He was funny,” I replied, and “more than the price.” Just
then we saw Jap Cumming through the Groves with a long gun on his shoulder; Jap said he'd sure get
big game just out of town in the woods; a Hart, Crane, Drake, or Martin for instance. Just then we
saw a green freshman approaching, who offered us some Graham crackers and we took a sample. Just then, Chalmers Carr
rushed by and we saw him drop several books. Recently he had been quite enthusiastic over his work and was
convinced that he was a good rememberer. As usual, however, even the mighty fall, and now the namesake of the
genius of that famous smoking tobacco has forgotten where he left his books and thus his course is rudely broken
into.

Tennis Tournament Finals Will Soon be Reached.

There is at least one boy at Davidson who does not cuss. His identity is unknown. One night last week
as he was ascending the stairway of Georgia, reports say there was such a crash as is heard when relocating
is being done. When he picked himself up, probably piece by piece, he gave a long whistle and left.

There is compensation in all things. During the present sugar shortage, certain local boarding houses are serving candy as a
proxy for sugar.

Second floor Georgia has formed an astronomy class for the study of the stars. This class meets every day from
1 till 2 in the afternoon. John D. Wiley announces he can tell the difference between the Pleiades and the
Milky Way now.

“Get the coin somewhere; borrow, beg, steal or save...” Editorial in last week's Davidsonian. We don't know just under which
of the above heads the exploits of Heiser and Jennings come; anyway, these two gentlemen, laboring under the idea that
it was

WHAT'S IN A NAME?

that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person
of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to send your shoes to the Shu Fixery, Charlotte, N.C. For neatness
and durability, more than the price. We are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches for all classes of commercial work,
such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors.

W.C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
30 and 36 Chambers

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N.C.

The singles of the matches of the Fall Tournament are rapidly entering their twilight zone, with the early rounds disposed
of. The finalists and near finalists are ready for the concluding contests. The draw threw Hall, Hawkins, and Spence in
different brackets while Hall and Gordon McKeldin have several rounds to go before meeting. Streibich is showing up well among
the new men. Martin, formerly of Auburn, and Hawkins look like a strong double combined. Davidson beat Manning, 7-9, 6-1,
7-5; Wyman fell to Mahood, 6-0, 6-0; Bobby Long took the count of 6-0, 6-0, from Martin; while Gilchrist defeated
Leod’s measure, 6-1, 6-1; Miley fell before Matthews, 6-0, 6-2; Morris won over Bostic, 6-1, 6-0; Wilkinson defeated Forgey, 6-3,
6-2; Hall got two from Gibson, by the same score; Cunningham eliminated Woolfolk, at 6-0; P. Ormand sent Bethen to
the stands in two love affairs; Price out Hollingworth out 6-0, 6-0; Spence barely beat Fewell 6-3, 7-5; Hawkins took
two from Shields, 6-3, 6-1; Murphy went through Adams 6-1, 6-1; C. M. Streibich won over C. E. Hodgin 6-4,
6-3; Gaither took McLeod’s measure, 6-1, 6-1.

If you want good printing guaranteed and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

The College Printers
Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
