6 The DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1919

Preparation For A Life of Happiness
The Qualities the M. C. Should Try to Cultivate.

The Ministerial Band held its weekly meeting last Friday at 6:45 p.m. A business meeting was held before the regular service, in which it was decided to have a "Ministerial Band Feed." A committee was appointed to make arrangements for it. After an opening song, the president of the band, W. M. Currie, made a talk on “Things a Ministerial Candidate Should Try to Cultivate.” Bill said that, strictly speaking, a man does not study to be a minister while in college, but is getting a general preparation for life. All the same, he should endeavor to cultivate certain qualities which are necessary for a successful minister.

First of all, he should cultivate his mind. He should be able to grasp the thoughts of others and adapt them to his own use. He should also learn to concentrate—to apply himself to his sermon, or whatever he has in hand, and put his whole force behind its accomplishment.

The second quality a ministerial candidate should cultivate is to know human nature. College is the best time in his life to observe the development of character, to see undisguised human nature—note its weaknesses, its peculiarities, its strong points. A man can learn how to approach peculiar types of character which are generally considered unapproachable.

Finally, the most important thing of all is to cultivate friendship. The foregoing qualities are important, but their usefulness is greatly lessened unless he can “wear well”—unless he can get on with other people in everyday life. Then, too, a minister needs to have friends. He needs to have friends that will stick to him, and will not hesitate to use their influence to help him. The minister who is a grouch has missed his calling.

Every member of the band is urged to be present at the next meeting, 6:45 p.m. Friday, February 7.

International Phases Interest Polity Men
The Motives of the Nations are to be Subject for Discussion.

The International Polity Club held its first regular meeting in Dr. McConnell’s recitation room last Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock. Methods of admitting new members to the club were discussed and it was finally decided to appoint a committee on membership. This committee is to recommend students from the Junior and Senior classes who will be voted on at a call meeting Monday, February 3. After this, Dr. J. M. McConnell made an informal talk about the progress of the Peace Conference at Paris. The program committee, Woods and Lilly, announced that for the next several meetings different members would discuss the subjects, “Why the Great Nations Went Into the War, What They Did and What They Expect to Get Out of the Peace Conference.”

Long, W. T. Dunlap, Jr., C. H. Wm. Farnum, C. A. Nash and J. M. Gaston spent the week-end at their homes. Dr. Peter Monroe, ex-'99, a prominent physician of Columbus, Ga., spent last week-end with his sister, Mrs. J. L. Douglas.

Facts and Frictions About College Life
How Campus Celebrities Pass Away the Time.

Mr. W. F. one day last week on the hill. There was a high wind on Thursday. Booth’s blankets were discovered in a tree in front of Rumple. J. G. Choate, campus’ after having been away for several weeks on account of sickness. The 5:15 “Limited” carried a pullman and extra baggage car last Tuesday. No, the train service is not improving. The French Band was only traveling from Winston to Charlotte.

Jan. 31—Jur Witherspoon toils over his Junior oration. John D. Watt, ‘19, is back in college. He has applied for a discharge from the Marines. At present he is on furlough.M. Dupper, '22, has decided to remove his class pennant from his wall.

Mrs. Nellie Cabal, representing the Piedmont Lyceum Bureau of Asheville, was here Friday. On account of the fact that Y takes ample care of the recreational needs of the students, it was decided not to have any lyceum entertainments this spring.

Garth, M.A. '18, was here last week. Lieutenant Garth has been stationed at Call Aviation Field, Wichita Falls, Tex. He has been transferred to the reserves.

C. V. Belmont (N. C.) was favored by a visit from her distinguished son—R. D. Hall, last weekend.

Jack Bowles, of Statesville, who is a cadet at West Point, is on the campus taking special work in Math.

The campus is still discussing the Liston-Stone engagement of last week. The matter may be referred to the Peace Conference for settlement.

The first practice of the Glee Club was to have been held on last Monday night but was postponed on account of the entertainment at the "Y." There have been practices every other night this week and they will be continued during next week. Enthusiasm and lots of "pep" seem to be shown by everyone and it is hoped that by Junior Speaking the club will be well organized and capable of rendering an excellent program. Trips are being planned through North and South Carolina during the early spring, and several recitals will be given on the hill.

Mrs. Thompson, Mrs. Dodson and little son, Miss Thompson and Miss Van Ness, of Charlotte, motored up to Davidson last Friday and spent the afternoon on the campus.

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Hall, of Statesville, spent '22, is back on the campus.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Germany Does Not Keep Us From Delivering
THE BEST FRESH MEAT
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White's Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

He didn’t sell out.
STUDENT
He is right here with the best line of Military Goods
O. D. Wool Uniforms..... $25 to $50
O. D. Moleskin Uniforms........ $10
O. D. Short Overcoats..... $10 to $15.50
O. D. Long Overcoats..... $27.50 to $50
Regulation Hats........ $2.50 to $6.00
Regulation Caps........ $2.50 to $3.50
Leather Puttees........ $3.98 to $16.50
Regulation Officers’ Shoes........ $10

and Other Eats in Town
L. A. ELLIOT

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WRIST WATCHES
ALARM CLOCKS
W. M. Torrence, Jeweler
FULL STOCK OF MILITARY ACCESSORIES

Belk Bros.
"SELL IT FOR LESS"
Address MAIL ORDER DEPT, DESK NO. 1
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

N. C. Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

BROWN’S
A STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
HIRSH WICKWIRE & BRANDEGEE KINCAID CLOTHING
DUNLAP & STETSON HATS
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.