THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

SECOND NUMBER OF MAGAZINE HAS GONE TO PRESS.

LITERARY NEWS

The December issue of the Magazine will go to press this week. The editors believe it will be better than
the first issue but to keep up a good standard everyone should try to write an article. There were two
freshmen contributors in the last issue. Very seldom does one find this general interest at the beginning of the year
but it is splendid. Don’t let a few men do all the work. Write for the Magazine!

On the back reading room table in the library will be placed several of the exchanges already received. All frequenters
of the library should read these and see how sister institutions are progressing.

CHAMBERS ON THE BOOM! MUCH NEEDED IMPROVEMENTS BEING INSTALLED.

The noise of hammers and saws continues to echo through the long halls of Chambers. Judging from all signs, north
wing Chambers is being supplemented by extensive improvements. Such is the case. A boiler room has been built and thoroughly
equipped on the first floor which will furnish hot water for the two bath and shower rooms being built on
the other two floors. The architect evidently believes in daylight as the solid walls of north wing are being pierced
and windows are being fitted.

The time is near at hand when those rooming in Chambers will cease envying the other dormitories. The college has
plans for several improvements but none needed or appreciated more than these new bath and shower rooms.

R. O. T. C. UNDERGOES REORGANIZATION — FIVE COMPANIES MERGED INTO FOUR.

Reorganization of the battalion in conformity with recent orders was effected last Tuesday morning.

A. E. F. Students A Little Inside Light On Our R. O. T. C. BATTALION

(Continued from Page 1)

The entire command kept step and their eyes straight to the front as never before. The lines, while in platoon
formation, were more than good. Soon after leaving the Square the column of squads formation was again adopted and held
until the intersection of Hill and Tryon streets was reached. At Tryon and Vance, the battalion was halted and permission
was given to a number to return to town and cars. From this point, the march was made at route
step to Wearn field.

Just before the arena for the afternoon struggle was reached, the “Queens Special” passed the battalion and some say that
a number of the boys were heard to shout. But no one blamed them especially and the parade moved on.

The Band.

And the band? Well, the band was present all the time and in very large numbers. There were two commanding
topics of conversation on Wearn field Saturday afternoon: the gameness of the Wildcats and the Davidson band, and if the
members of the band were not proud of themselves, they should have been.

Society, Nov. 15.

Program of Debate.

Affirmative: Booth, W. R.; Boyd; Burgess; Boulware; Brown; McCaskill; McGukin; Fresh Eu. Society, Nov. 17

Negative: Craig; Cunningham; Dunlap; Ilmer; Oration: Reid; Declamations: Sorrell; Richards; Roberts, G. B.; Smith, H. H.; Roddey; Sydenstricker; Toney; Finke;
Pellicon; Filiot.

BLACK, J. M., ’20.

The All-Southern football star of Davidson's 1916 team, leaving the gridiron where he had become a famous warrior, enlisted in
the American Army at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga, in May, 1917. After being commissioned as second lieutenant on August 15, he
was sent to Camp Jackson, S. C. On August 5, Jack sailed from New York and landed at Liverpool the
18th of August. He trained in the F. A. at Valdahon, Dobs, and was promoted to first lieutenant on October
1. He completed the course the 1st of November. Black was stationed at St. Nazaire, France, and returned to the
U.S. at Newport News, June 9, and was discharged July 2, 1919.

CASSELL, F. M., '23.

The above-named student of the Freshman class enlisted at Roanoke, Va., April 22, 1917, in the Coast Artillery, and after
training three months at Camp Stewart and nine months at Fortress Monroe he sailed from Newport News on April 23,
1918, with the rank of corporal.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Among the books recently added to the Library are the two following, of local and timely interest: “The Navy and
the Nation,” by Dr. Josephus Daniels, and a translation of “President Wilson” by Daniel Halery, a Freshman. Others worth while
are “The Education of Henry Adams, an Autobiography,” which has been ranking as a best seller for several months. Its
500 pages are full of interest to the student of mental development; its popularity has been remarkable considering its size
and character. “The Recollections of a Russian Diplomat” is a journalist’s story of observation in Berlin.

Interesting Speeches On This Vital Topic by Our Leading Men

Turning aside from the realms of fiction, the reviewer chanced upon a book of addresses by Josephus Daniels called “The
Navy and the Nation.” Speeches are not always the most interesting reading but these prove an exception.

Josephus Daniels is a North Carolinian who has proved himself one of the most capable men in public service. When
he first entered upon his position as Secretary of the Navy, many were the slighting and critical remarks about him
on account of his stand for prohibition. It was not long until the late Admiral Dewey declared him the most
capable man who had headed the navy in many years and so people changed their attitude. To him, we owe
the present standing of our navy and its recent growth. Progressive, forceful, clean, and intensely patriotic, we find him all
that we could desire the head of our Naval forces to be.

“The Navy and the Nation” is not the subject of a learned reasoner. It is a book for the everyday
American. Among the selections are addresses delivered to college men at Yale, the University of Virginia, and several to the
graduating classes at Annapolis. Those interested in the progress of agriculture in the South would find many suggestions in his
speech to the American Cotton Manufacturers Association, and those interested in the great work of the doctor will find the
requisites for better and cleaner lives in his speech to the Clinical Congress of Surgeons of North America. These speeches
mentioned are only a few out of a large collection. All are on some practical and helpful subject. They are
the spontaneous expression of Secretary Daniels’ ideals and should cause every thoughtful man an hour of useful study and pleasure.
Read one speech and you will read the book from cover to cover.If the band could have heard the many
complimentary things said about them, they would have done all the better—if such a thing were possible.

Parade No. 2. With the score 16 to 0 against their team, the Davidson rooters staged an old-time snake dance
on the field between halves and gave the visitors a sample of Presbyterian pep. After snaking the gridiron, the supporters
of the darker hues returned to their seats in the bleachers, in close proximity to the delegation from Queens, which
was supporting the Davidson warriors with a zeal that made the best backing ever given a Davidson team bow to
the support of the sister institution. Before the eyes of such a galaxy of the fairest of the fair, it
is little wonder that the fight put up by the brother eleven was magnificent. And as one of the Queens
expressed it, “Davidson is the best loser I ever saw.”

Night. After the game, the battalion returned to the Mecklenburg, where a change into civvies was made by the majority
of the students. On the way in from the field, some of the Davidson contingent, in some unexplainable manner, got
on the rear of a streetcar which was closely followed by the “Queens Special.” None of the local delegation objected,
however. A reception was held at the Manufacturers Club, and a number of Davidson men spent the evening there. Others
made their way to the various show houses of the city, and many called on friends in the metropolis and
suburbs. At 11 p.m., the special dummy pulled out, and the day was officially pronounced as over.

The following were a few of the Davidson alumni who witnessed the game between Davidson and N. C. State in
Charlotte Saturday: Dr. Oren Moore, L. H. Wilkinson, Dr. McKay, R. M. Miller, G. M. King, '18; A. G. Finley,
'18; J. P. Laird, '17; Pressley Robinson, ex-’22; Dunlap Roddey, '17; E. P. Nesbit, '17; J. D. Watt, '19; M.
R. Watt, ex-’20; J. W. Bullock, '17; S. H. Bennett, '16; F. A. Cochrane, ex-’22; C. S. Mattison, '17; G.
S. Crouch, '18; W. S. Overton, '18; A. M. Inman, '19; J. C. Safford, ex-’20; M. R. Adams, '16; W.
B. Garrison, W. T. Rankin, ex-’20; T. H. Belk, ex-'20; C. W. Angle, '18; J. W. McAllister, ex-’19; J. H.
Payne, '14; J. M. Carson, '16; P. N. Pharr, C. W. Foreman, ex-'19; J. S. Miller, ex-'22; A. T. Cashion,
'17; R. D. Hall, '19; H. P. Worth, ex-’20; D. E. Hipp, ex-'19; J. G. Richards, Jr., '11; R. C.
Garth, '19; H. H. Massey, ex-'21; S. J. Fetzer, ex-’20; Ed. Taylor, P. W. Shaw, ex-'22, R. D. Hall, '19.

Miss Adelaide Harris, of Concord, N. C., passed through Saturday on her way to Charlotte. George King, '18, and George
Crouch, '18, were visitors on the hill last weekend. R. D. Hall, '19, was here for Sunday.

Dr. Lingle joined the Army Y. M. C. A. soon after the end of the college term and went to
France. It has been said that he has the peculiar distinction of having been under fire longer than any other
living American, and he is the only North Carolinian who ever gave a lecture to the troops of a foreign
country in their own language.

Lieutenant Colonel Mueller states emphatically that any reductions in rank were made without any prejudice to the parties concerned but
are necessitated by the reorganization.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, an Excellent Teacher and Friend. Thomas Wilson Lingle came to Davidson in 1889, graduating with the
A.B. degree in 1893. He received the M.A. degree the next year. He has done graduate work at Cornell and
at Strassburg; received the Ph.D. degree from Leipsic; studied at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond; and graduated from Princeton Theological
Seminary. He then became Professor of Philosophy and History in Sao Paolo University in Brazil. He left Brazil to come
back to the United States and became President and Professor of Philosophy and History at Blackburn College. In 1909, Dr.
Lingle came to Davidson, acting as Field Secretary until 1912, when he began his work as Professor of Modern Languages.
With the outbreak of war in 1917, he received the peculiar distinction of having been under fire longer than any
other living American, and he is the only North Carolinian who ever gave a lecture to the troops of a
foreign country in their own language.

From a very broad knowledge of the world, Dr. Lingle brings to his duties as a Davidson professor a fund
of knowledge gathered from a galaxy of the world's educational centers, and an experience as broad as the diverse parts
of the world in which it was obtained. His scholarly and efficient classroom instruction, and his cosmopolitan urbanity on all
occasions, make him not only an excellent professor but a very agreeable friend to all his students.

Pipes are certainly a man’s smoke. They bring the smoke joy which every man seeks. It’s in the mellow French
briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workmanship and design.
Select several shapes today at any good dealer’s. Smoke a cool one every time. W. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK.
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.
