Soph Champions Vol. VII.

FURMAN TROUNCED BY DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY TO BE CELEBRATED WEDNESDAY

Davidson College Day will be celebrated in Shearer Hall at 10:30 Wednesday, December 3. There will be many interesting talks
made by men of renown. The addresses will be made by the following: Mr. R. M. Miller, president of the
Alumni association, will tell us what the alumni can do to help Davidson in this campaign. Professor Shewmake will continue
by telling what the faculty can do. Then D. M. Chalmers will talk for the students, telling their part. Dr.
Melvin will make the principal speech, outlining the Million Dollar Campaign for education in North Carolina. This is an excellent
program and it is hoped that all will enjoy it.

Davidson Sends Five Men to Des Moines Convention

Chalmers, Schenck, Richardson, Bitzer and Mauze to Represent Davidson in Student Volunteer Convention

The Des Moines Student Volunteer Convention will be represented by a full quota from Davidson College. Three applications in addition
to the number allowed Davidson have been sent, but it is doubtful whether the reservations can be made. There will
be in the neighborhood of 6,000 delegates, from every state, and the attendance is only limited by the accommodations. Mott,
Spier and other speakers whose fame is national, make the program one of unusual interest and importance. It has been
five years since the last convention, which was held in Kansas City, with an attendance of over 5,000. The representatives
from Davidson are D. M. Chalmers, L. B. Schenck, R. Bitzer, J. M. Richards and G. W. Mauze. Several hundred
dollars have already been raised for their expenses, and Mr. Miles has asked the student body to give what is
needed to make up the necessary amount. The convention opens December 31 and lasts till January 4.

“WICKED MARQUIS” PORTRAYS WELL THE ENGLISH ARISTOCRAT

We all love to read books about lords, dukes, and marquises, and the ins and outs of an aristocracy almost
unknown to us. They have a certain charm, a certain fascination. The tall and slim figure holding his monocle to
his eye giving someone pleasure by merely listening to his remarks is a figure almost lost forever to the world
except in a few scattered exceptions. Such a man is the Wicked Marquis in the book by the same name.
Though he is unfortunate in money matters, he holds his head high and is the very soul of a modern
Beau Brummel. It takes more than money to down the head of an aristocrat of the old order. And then
the love stories which hinge around the old Marquis. They are delightful! E. Phillips Oppenheim has given us another good
book. Read it. You will like it.

Rev. J. A. Boyd, ’12, has recently changed his address from South Charleston to 823 Dale Ave. Roanoke, Va.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1919.

Photo by Mcllwaine

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Best Xmas Yet for Everyone

SENIOR SPEAKING CELEBRATED

1918 SQUAD OF WILD CATS AND KITTENS.

Top Row—Left to right: W. F. Hall, Manager; Shepherd, Brady, Douglas, McMaster, Brice, Phillips, Werth, Richards. Second Row—Left to right:
McFadden, Coach Crayton, Murray, Sizer, Latar, Davis, Breitenhirt, Walker, Dick. Bottom Row—Left to right: Black, Hizer. Furman Suffered Decisive Defeat
at Hands of Davidson—Hornets Scattered by Backfield—Presbyterians Stage Real Come-Back—Fine Form Displayed by Whole Team—Furman Fought Gamely—Speer Bright Star for
Hornets

You can’t tame a Wildcat. Completely outplaying their opponents in every phase of the game, the red jerseyed warriors of
Davidson were victorious over Furman.by a score of 41 to 14 in their Thanksgiving game. The game, which was played
in Greenville, was attended by nearly 4,000 spectators. Among these were a large number of Davidson supporters; in fact, the
red and black seemed to predominate over the blue and white. A large number of Clemson students were present to
root for Davidson. The Wildcats played true to their real form for the first time since they met Washington and
Lee. Never since that time had Black and Johnston been able to play through a whole game together, one or
both being absent for a part or all of every game. The two backs celebrated their return to the game
by running through their opponents almost at will. Black, playing his last game for the Wildcats, was easily the star
of the whole contest. His line plunging and end runs were phenomenal while his work on the defensive was almost
as good. Johnston too put up a wonderful game, and proved himself a fit running mate for Black. Spann and
Cassell tore through the Furman line and around the ends in great style. The whole Davidson line played an unusually
fine game. Time after time men would break through and down one of the Hornets for a loss, while on
the offensive they opened great holes in their opponents’ line. Hammett and Romefelt were the

Furman put up a hard-fought game all the way through, and succeeded in holding Davidson to a 14-14 tie until
the middle of the third quarter. The defense of the Hornets crumbled before the fierce charges of the Wildcats after
that time, however, and the result was never again in doubt. Speer was the outstanding star for Furman, making most
of their gains and getting loose for the longest run of the game when he sprinted around right end for
42 yards and a touchdown in the first quarter. Davidson drew first blood in the struggle. After receiving the initial
kick-off, she was unable to make first down and Cassell punted to Furman's 20-yard line. On the next play Todd
fumbled and Davidson recovered. Two line plays and a short end run by Johnston were enough to put the ball
across the goal line. Furman evened the score in the same period, when Speer made a beautiful run around end
for a touchdown. On this sprint he was tackled by four players, but eluded them all, rising and continuing his
journey after being knocked down by one of them. Davidson scored again in the second quarter when a pass to
Dougles netted another touchdown.

In the third quarter both teams opened up an aerial attack. In the middle of the period the Hornets scored
their second touchdown on a pass to Todd, who received the ball behind the goal line. For the re- (Continued
on page 10)

No. 14

Four Lyceum Numbers to be Presented This Spring

First Number to be Jan. 7th—Whole Course a Splendid One

Lyceum Program:
January 7 - The Colleens, four girls in sketch and costume.
February 13 - Opie Read, the famous humorist.
March 13 - Alton Packard, the cartoonist.
May 7 - Laurant, the magician.

The lyceum management has finally arranged the dates for the lyceum course, to be offered for the post-holiday season. These
numbers are some of the strongest offered by the Redpath Bureau. The Colleens are a clever group of young ladies
who offer a musical program that will be pleasing to all. Opie Read, recognized as one of America's most illustrious
humorists, has a large fund of wit and humor. Alton Packard, the cartoonist, has appeared successfully in nearly every state
in the Union. The cartoons he draws depict nature so truly and effectively that his audiences are at attention every
minute. Laurant is a magician. That ought to be enough to say about him to ensure a crowded house.

Anyone having a season ticket is in the line of a splendid bargain. Everyone who has failed to get a
season ticket can secure one from any one of the management at the same price, $1.75 for the remaining four
numbers. Single admissions for these numbers will be 25 and 50 cents, except for the Laurant program, which will be
35 cents and 75 cents for single admissions. Keep boosting the lyceum at Davidson, fellows, and make it a permanent
thing on the hill. Watch The Davidsonian for cuts and articles descriptive of these splendid attractions.

ALL-CLASS BASKETBALL TEAM PICKED

Class basketball was unusually fast and clean this year, and has developed a number of good players. Indeed, an all-class
team is hard to pick because at times practically every player showed that he had in him a goodly knowledge
of the game. The following would perhaps be the best line-up and could make any 'Varsity team work overtime:

Right guard—S. D. Brice, '21.
Left guard—J. P. Price, '22.
Center—W. W. Roberts, '22.
Right forward—T. W. Hawkins, '21.
Left forward—M. R. Doubles, '22.
Substitutes: Crawford, '23; Ormond, '21; Streibich, '22.

CALENDAR

Wednesday—Davidson College Day Exercises at 10:30 a.m.
Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.
Friday—Movies. Student body entertained by Address given by Mr. Arthur P. Newton.
Saturday—Last day of classes. Seniors averaging 85 go home.
Sunday—Bible classes, 10:30 a.m. “Y” service, 6:30 p.m.
Monday—No more classes.
Tuesday—Exams begin.

IT’S NOT TOO LATE TO MAKE UP BACK WORK. START NOW!
