The Korean Revolution Missionaries Unjustly Accused. Our Missionary Safe, Soon Starts Home. Pyengyang, Korea, March 29, 1919. We have had
a month full of excitement since I last wrote you, and many things have occurred to make our hearts sad,
though there seem some indications that better things are coming, and we are learning more and more to “have faith
in God.” You have doubtless read of the Independence Movement in the newspapers, and full accounts seem to have gotten
out, so much of what I might say would only be old to you, and I will not go into
any long details. Our admiration for the Koreans grows daily; they are truly a wonderful people, and we cannot understand
their long-suffering patience in any kind of persecution or suffering. I am certainly not undertaking to say whether their move
was a wise thing or not, but they have shown determination, and have been most orderly on the whole; and
with one or two exceptions (which we are not sure are exceptions) have not resorted to any violence until exasperated
by violence used on them—and even this only in a few cases, as the leaders have always given strict orders
that no abuse or violence was to be used in any way.

Taking the funeral of their former emperor, which was to take place in Seoul March 3, as an occasion, the
Koreans prepared beforehand many copies of a “declaration of independence” which were read at meetings held throughout the country on
March 1. This declaration was signed by thirty-three men, three or four of our strongest church pastors and leaders being
of the number, and the others composed of prominent Koreans, for the most part not Christians. After a memorial service
held at the meetings, the declaration was read, and then the people marched out with Korean flags—also prepared beforehand—and went
throughout the city shouting “Hoorah for Korean Independence!” This was Saturday; on Sunday the churches were ordered closed, and no
services could be held. For a few days in Pyengyang like demonstrations were made, but they were stopped by the
police and soldiers with untold cruelty towards the people and many arrests, so that in Pyengyang city there have been
no demonstrations of any great magnitude since. But the movement spread throughout the country, and in two or three weeks'
time there was hardly a place of any size that did not have similar gatherings to the ones here. These
were all put down, and in very many instances the cruelty of the soldiers in firing on the people and
beating and cutting them up was horrible to tell. In many country places the persecution seems to be directed against
the church and others are let alone, though, as you see from the signers, the movement is by no means
confined to Christians. In Seoul and Pyengyang and other big cities the largest Korean shops have been closed, and in
Pyengyang now all the Korean shops are shut up tight. Otherwise, things are fairly quiet just now.

As missionaries, we were not consulted beforehand, nor did the Koreans bring us in in any way, knowing, apparently, that
we must remain neutral. In some of the Japanese papers we have been accused as the leaders in all this,
but any such statements have all been denied later on. Our pupils all attended the meetings on March 1, and
most of them were arrested sooner or later, but at present only a few are left in jail; indeed, most
of them were let loose the same day they were taken. But this was not only true of our schools,
but of the government schools also, and all had to be closed for a time. The government schools opened rather
unsuccessfully for a short time, but here in Pyengyang, at least, they had to close again, as the pupils had
no mind to study. Christian schools have been closed, with one or two exceptions, since the beginning of the trouble.
We hope to open up at the beginning of the new term in April. From what the papers have said,
I think the government is realizing that they have made mistakes, and they will doubtless introduce changes, and there may
be hope that the Koreans will have more to say in the government later. Of course, we cannot advise nor
mix in (Continued on page 8)

The DAVIDSONIAN. May 28, 1919

Class of 'Nineteen is Sent Forth. (Continued from page 1)

saw overseas service as chaplain during the world war. A belated honor was awarded to W. F. Hall, of Statesville,
who was called to the rostrum and informed that he had been awarded the Davidson “D” for championship on the
tennis courts. Members of the class were then called before the rostrum and the presentation of diplomas took place, Dr.
Lingle presenting each graduate with his diploma, with a few words of congratulation, and a warm handshake. During the announcements
made just previous to the delivery of the valedictory by E. A. Woods, first honor man, Dr. Lingle announced that
the board of trustees, at a prolonged meeting, had recognized the loyalty of those members of the faculty who had
stood by Davidson in the years past, despite recent offers of more attractive salaries elsewhere, by increasing the salaries of
each member of the faculty, and he further announced that he was in favor of continuing this practice in the
future.

Dr. Lingle read a touching letter to the graduates from Dr. Martin, president of the college, who is at Pass
Christian, Miss., recovering his health. The letter was as follows:

The Graduating Class of 1919. My Dear Fellows: Of all things that I have been compelled to omit during my
illness, I regret nothing more sincerely than my absence at this hour when it would ordinarily have been my great
pleasure to present to each of you the diploma of Davidson and declare you winners of your degrees. I am
deprived of the opportunity of wishing you, both for the college and for myself, a hearty “God Bless You,” as
you go out into the wider fields of the world. We shall miss you from the campus but we shall
follow you with interest and earnest prayer. Remember you have been trained to serve and not to selfishness, and my
earnest prayer for each one of you is that you may attain the true leadership through unselfish service. May God
bless you each one, and keep you perfect in all your ways. Faithfully Your Friend, WILLIAM J. MARTIN.

Dr. Lingle also announced that a new professor of English had been secured for Davidson, the new man being Prof.
E. F. Shewmake, at present associate professor of English at the University of Virginia. The class of '19 presented a
clean-cut, earnest appearance that promises well for them in the great world college which they have now entered, and their
record in college, according to the members of the faculty, is one that presages good marks on the report cards
of the world, when they are called for examinations in life's greater tasks.

Dr. McCracken, in opening his address, prefaced his actual talk by a few remarks concerning the interests that bind Pennsylvania
and the Carolinas together. He mentioned that 142 years ago, LaFayette had ridden from the Carolinas to Pennsylvania, and that
a little later, Colonel William Davidson, a native Pennsylvanian, came from Pennsylvania to fight for freedom in the Carolinas. He
recounted how LaFayette’s most distinguished professor, Francis A. Marsh, was summoned to the college from the south, and how the
first president of LaFayette, George Junkin, gave his daughter as bride to that stalwart Presbyterian soldier, Stonewall Jackson. He told
of southern students traveling to Easton as they did to Princeton, “drawn there by our common Calvinism,” and said that
at his own inauguration, the college was glad to adopt as an honorary son, a native of Charlotte, loved throughout
the country and equally at LaFayette, although head ofa rival institution, Dr. Edward Kidder Graham. Dr. McCracken declared that although
it was his first visit to the physical Davidson, the college was no stranger to him, as he had viewed
it from the angle of Presbyterianism while he was in Missouri. He regretted the intangible veil between the two Presbyterials
and declared his hope that they would soon be united in one great common cause.

He then took up his talk on “Defining the College Man,” and drew illustration after illustration from the great war.
The speaker declared that men are being measured differently at the present time than they were years ago. He said
that the aim of the average college man might be likened to the objective of a military unit. He told
of the difference in training during the late war to that of other wars, and the higher state of discipline
necessary to inure men to the necessity of advancing slowly behind a barrage fire than was required when they rushed
their objectives. He drew a contrast between the machine-gun method of attack and the common dirt trench that made the
best defense known during the war, as different and widely divergent methods of attaining an objective. Dr. McCracken declared that
the objective of the college student is graduation and that the members of the class of ‘19 had now obtained
their objective. He defined the objective of the college, to develop the best possible manhood. Dr. McCracken said that the
war had caused a re-rating of the college man, making him more self-reliant, quicker to think and more alert in
every way. After a thorough dissertation of the lessons taught by the war, the timing of the advance, the choosing
of an objective and similar matters, Dr. McCracken closed his remarks by an expressed wish and belief that the men
of the class of ‘19 will attain their objectives.

HONORARY DEGREES.

Rev. Daniel A.B., Davidson, graduate of Union Theological Seminary, 1896, pastor of the churches at Burgaw, N.C., Lenoir, N.C., Lewisburg,
W.Va., and Decatur, Ga., preacher, poet, philosopher, and lover of men, your Alma Mater delights to confer upon you the
degree of Doctor of Divinity.

Rev. William Taliaferro Thompson, A.B., of Davidson, 1905, graduate of Union Theological Seminary, Hoge Fellow at Union Theological Seminary, pastor
of churches at Lexington, N.C., Knoxville, Tenn., Director of Religious Work among our soldiers, preacher, man of God, lover of
young men, your Alma Mater delights to confer upon you the degree of Doctor of Divinity.

Rev. Benjamin Rice Lacy, Jr., A.B. of Davidson, 1906, Rhodes Fellow at Oxford University, graduate of Union Theological Seminary, Hoge
Fellow of Union Theological Seminary, pastor at Willow Springs Church, N.C., Chaplain 13th Field Artillery, pastor Central Presbyterian Church, Atlanta,
Ga., preacher, scholar, patriot, soldier, lover of the lowly, your Alma Mater delights to bestow upon you the degree of
Doctor of Divinity.

Dr. John Peter Munroe, A.B., of Davidson, 1882, M.D. of the University of Virginia, 1885, distinguished and beloved physician, president
of the North Carolina Medical College, president of various medical societies, author, business man, elder in the Presbyterian Church, lover
and servant of humanity, your Alma Mater delights to bestow upon you the degree of Doctor of Laws.

NEW MEN HONORED BY ALPHA DELTA SIGMA.

At a recent meeting of Alpha Delta Sigma fraternity, the following men were initiated: E. G. Lilly, R. D. Hall,
Emory Flinn, and W. M. Currie. This fraternity is a local organization, the membership of which is made up of
men who have represented the college in an intercollegiate debate or oratorical contest with other institutions. Its purposes are to
stimulate interest in public speaking and to arrange contests both within the college and with outsiders. A review of the
year’s work showed that the efforts of the members in debating had been successful in upholding Davidson’s record in debates
with other colleges.

Athletic Prospects For 1919-1920.
(Continued from page 1)

Washington and Lee 0 Davidson 20
North Carolina 7 Davidson 14
Remounts 0 Davidson 0
Clemson 0 Davidson 0

The other games had to be called off on account of government regulations.

Basketball.

Mr. Miles, the “Y” Secretary, agreed to handle this department, and soon after Christmas began work on his new squad.
Class basketball enabled him to get a line on the prospects and to find where they needed the hardest work.
Until the return of the prodigal “Stringbean” McAskill there was not a single letter man to help with the practice.
His appearance added a little “scrap” to the bunch and started things going right. Before the close of the season
“Pup” Hall also received his discharge and helped out in the last few games. The first game, played against the
Camp Greene quintet, was very encouraging, ending in the one-sided score of 54-14. On the trip, the Red and Black
met the heaviest opposition seen in many years. Some of their opponents had as many as five or six letter
men returned from the army. Although the number of games won was not as large as usual, the playing was
entirely satisfactory and gives promise of an invincible squad next season. The men winning letters in this branch were McAskill
(captain), Davenport, Hall, Harrington, Schenck, and Chalmers.

Baseball.

This team had a slight advantage over the others in that there were eight letter men returned this spring. Practice
was begun as early in March as the weather would permit and by the time they met the Phillies in
Charlotte on March 29, the team was fairly well rounded into shape. The big victory of the season was the
defeat handed the University of Virginia. In this game, Clarke held his opponents to three safeties and disposed of thirteen
by the strikeout method. The old horseshoe got lost on the trip and out of four extra session games only
one ended in our favor. The pitching of Clarke was the feature of the season. In the fifty innings pitched,
two hundred and three men faced him and only twenty-eight hits were registered. The big right-hander thus held his opponents
to a batting average of .137. The men winning “D’s” were Boswell (captain), Miley, Miller, Spann, Ratchford, Sample, Richards, McArn,
Johnson, Cassell, Currie, and Clarke.

There was the story of the negro troops coming across the Atlantic in a transport. A submarine was sighted. The
six sharp blasts from the whistle shrilled out and the order was given to the colored troops to fall in
on the deck. The negroes stood in line at attention, waiting, silent and scared, while the passengers gathered in the
saloon. Then the silence was broken by one big black man in the rear rank who, in a small, quavering
voice asked: “Does any nigger here want to buy a gold watch and chain?”

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John E. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Next to Post Office

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
We give both quality and service. Let us convince you.
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of
the work done. We feature engraved work a specialty and charge for both.
CHARLOTTE PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
(Phone 643)
C. J. MATTHEWS, Representative
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

All Military Publications
Mail Orders a Specialty
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
