The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

HERE'S THE “DOPE” ABOUT NEW COACH.
(Continued from page 1)

men. His success at Davidson is assured. With such assurances as these coming in from all sides and with the splendid material which he has to work on, we have every reason to expect a team that can trim anything in this part of the country. The attendance record has already been broken and now the athletic records are going to receive some serious jolts.

FRESHMEN HONORED.
(Continued from page 1)

Nancy Shelton, Ruth Shelton, Ellen Victor, Virginia Staten, Virginia Williamsen, Lillie Jenkins, Elizabeth Dowd, Calvine Scott, Frances Worth, Catherine Worth, Eloise Martin, Mary Parks Grey, Elizabeth Grey, Miss Woods, Miss Barringer, Juliet Bristol, Ann Bristol, Virginia Hinkel, Miss Hicks, Helen Marsh, Miriam Morris, Adelaide Harris, Lavinia Boyer, Mrs. Morris, Mrs. Beyer, Dr. and Mrs. Lingle, Sarah Lingle, Sarah Wilkins, Miss Mellen, Miss Gene Mellon, Miss Price, Misses Black, Lillian Floyd, Virginia Staten, Dorothy Parker, Miss Williams.

THE BURDEN BEARERS.

You find them in college as you find them elsewhere. Without them, student activities would fall through, and so far as these activities are concerned, the college would die of inanition. They are few; yet their energies enter into every phase of college life. Are students looking for an editor, a manager, a booster? They turn to one of these. By most of the students, they are regarded as fortunate. Sometimes, when they have worked hard and met with indifference, they think themselves unfortunate. And it sometimes happens that students who have ability but not interest or energy or enthusiasm, look upon them with green eyes of envy.

Now the burden bearer has his reward, not in the satisfaction which comes from the fact that he is editor or manager or chairman, though there is some satisfaction in these things, but in the fact that he has started right. He will not be long in college. Four years gets him through. He is no flunker. Then he goes out in life, and life lasts a pretty long time. He goes out trained. He has learned on the college paper more than a smattering of journalism. He has learned as manager more than a smattering of business methods. He has run into knotty problems and solved them. He has learned how to...

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Registered Pharmacists
Prescriptions Compounded by

The Home Beautifier—
Make Old Furniture, Worn Floors, and Woodwork look like New again. The cost is small and the pleasure of doing the work yourself is great. You'll be delighted with the fine results obtained by using PEE GEE.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

PEE GEE RE-NU-LAC is a Stain and Varnish combined—made especially for beautifying homes. Try a can today. PEE GEE RE-NU-LAC comes in all sizes, from...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in 20 Natural Wood and lead men, ; ee “The Mod Ecamel Colors, White, Gold and Silver. b He does not face the hard facts of the business world with only academic PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., MANUFACTURERS knowledge (though strange to say nine LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY times out of ten he has more of that commodity than his less active brother) Thorough Courses Well-Equipped but with knowledge of business in the Laboratories bargain. He looks the business world in the face with some assurance. If there are desirable jobs hanging around, he is apt to land one. He is the kind of man business men want. More than that, he has made many friends, and friends not only cheer but they help. His teachers have watched him, have estimated his worth to the college, and concluded that he will be of worth in life. And teachers get not a few letters asking about this man and that. He has met the livest men in other colleges. He is remembered by them as a pushing fellow not afraid of work and responsibility. He belongs to that fraternity of men who can do things. But to come to the point. Men are needed to run college activities, to edit the college paper, to write the articles, to manage the business of this and that enterprise. The next year will see the same demand. Get into the swim. Train yourself. Show yourself ready to assume responsibility. Fill the gaps made vacant. It's a privilege and opportunity—an opportunity not only to do your bit for the college, but to train yourself to be ready for life, to make the acquaintance of other men who are actively engaged in college work in other institutions, and to increase several fold your chance of success in that bigger life for which college is only the preparation.—Old Gold and Black.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $408,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N.C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President. H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer

PRICE for price, grade for grade, there is no better pipe made than a WDC. You can get a pipe with the familiar triangle trademark in any size and shape and grade you want—and you will be glad you did it. WDC Pipes are American made and sold in the best shops at $6 down to 75 cents.

Genuine French Briar, carefully selected and mounted with sterling band and vulcanite bit.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.