2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post
Office, Davidson, N.C.

EDITORIAL BOARD
F. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers...... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts....... Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
B. F. Shields
S. P. McClov
Emery Flyan
W. M. Currie
E. G. Lilly
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Craig

MANAGEMENT
W. C. Stones........ Business Manager
K. A. Turner........ Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander..... Assistant Manager
J. R. Price.......... Assistant Manager
G. D. Sample........ Assistant Manager

REPORTERS FOR THE ISSUE
F. N. Booker, A. D. McArn, J. C. McCaskill, A. M. Mitchell, C. M. Dugger, Jr., J. J. Lave, J.
B. Sanders, J. P. Price.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

PEP
Pep is the god of Good Fortune, the Herald of Success, the Antidote for Defeat, the Main Spring for Conquerors.
Caesar had it when he crossed the Rubicon; Napoleon lost it on the field of Waterloo; Bill Hohenzollern lost it
last November; some students imagine they have it when they break out window lights. It's that which is behind the
use of lusty lungs, whether the team is winning or losing; it’s that which makes a fellow give up his
Sunday morning sleep for a Bible class, it’s that which makes a fellow gladly “lend a hand” where it is
needed for the good of the college; it's that which makes a fellow keep driving in the game, although he
is completely exhausted; it's that which brings the grin, and has nothing in common with the grouch. PEP is FREE:
use it on all occasions; before big games; during big games; after big games; in your room; on the campus;
at home. Make your life full of pep.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT
The number of gold stars on the Davidson College service flag is sixteen. Now that the war is over, and
we turn to more peaceful pursuits, there naturally occurs to many that there should be some fitting memorial set up
on the campus to these sixteen. It is something which should not be done hastily, as it should carry with
it the deepest consideration and esteem of all concerned. But it should be brought before students and alumni alike and
made subject to their thoughts and ideas. We hope some action can be taken on this before the end of
the year.

PUBLIC OPINION
There are some things which public opinion alone can regulate, and one of these is the habit of “swiping” light
globes from public places, and of “borrowing” articles belonging to someone else and never returning them. It cannot be denied
that public opinion makes no organized protest against this. Somehow things have become so twisted that such acts are not
looked upon by many as thefts. It would be interesting to see how they argue their point. When a remover
of light globes begins to lose something of his own, possibly he will start going to Mr. Hill and start
paying a hard forty-five cents for his lights. Another thing which will require public opinion to eliminate is the habit
of cutting pieces here and there out of publications in the reading room. Look, something which does not belong to
the clipper; and, too, it is not very courteous after requests have been made frequently to the contrary. Again, it
is unfair to others, as everyone has an equal right to enjoy all the reading room literature. How long will
it be before the student body loses patience with these practices and stamps them out?

A FINE RECORD
The present Freshman class has made a record for itself that it may well be proud of. No class for
years has furnished such a large number, and probably no better quality, of men for the two Literary Societies than
the class of '22 has done. Who knows but what it is the work of this class to give the
societies their long looked-for regeneration? In any case, a heavy responsibility rests upon the new society men, and it remains
to be seen whether they will respond. The war has diminished the number of upperclassmen in the societies by at
least fifty percent. It won't be long before most of the society duties will rest upon the shoulders of the
new men, and it is up to them to begin a new era, building the two organizations up to their
former place of influence and service on the campus. You will find upperclassmen in the societies, who do no work
and who actually do harm by their indifference or talk; but do not judge these organizations by such men, and
above all things don't think you are supposed to copy them. Many a man never pretends to prepare his speech,
cuts up foolishness most of the time, and then says the society is no good because he hasn't learned how
to speak. No one can get more out of the society than he puts into it. That's an established fact.
This spring there will be a number of contests. Go into every one of them. Don't get the idea that
the only reason for entering acontest is to win a medal, because it's not. Work up loyalty for your Literary
Society and actively support it. Don't sit by and merely watch it drift along. Freshmen, it rests with you. What
are you going to do about it?

NOTICE...
All interested are requested to read this notice carefully: All men, but especially the new men, who have had any
experience whatever on their high school papers, or who have had no experience but wish to do literary work by
writing for The Davidsonian, are earnestly requested to meet in Dr. J. M. McConnell’s classroom, in Shearer Hall, at 7
o'clock sharp tonight (Wednesday). The meeting will not be long and you will be under no obligations by coming. All
reporters are urged to be present. Don't forget the time—seven sharp.

SPANN PILOTS JUNIORS.
At a class meeting on Monday morning the Juniors elected the following officers to serve the rest of the college
year: Henry Spann as president; James Witherspoon, vice-president; A. Foscue, secretary and treasurer, and Chalmers, Calhoun, and as student councilmen.
With this band of men in control, the class of ‘20 will no doubt continue to hold the place it
should on the campus of Davidson. The date of Junior Speaking was also decided upon, being March 7-8-9. The war's
over now, so what about those old good times on the campus. Get your “bids” ready!

Who’s Going to Win The New Track Trophy?
A beautiful loving cup has recently been presented to the college as a track trophy by L. Richardson, ex-’14. The
cup is of simple design but rare quality. It was obtained at Tiffany & Company, New York, and carries on
one side the inscription, “Track Team Trophy, Presented to the Students of Davidson College by Lunsford Richardson, Jr., Class 1914.”
On the reverse side of the cup are the letters “D.C.” in script, with the word “Record” below, and space
left for the records each year. The cup is now on display upstairs in the Library.

HEARD ON THE HILL.
It is hoped that with the definite announcement of the date for commencement those students who have been worrying lest
college should have to run on into the summer will rest more easily. This year's commencement exercises will take place
from May 25 to 28, inclusive. Other details concerning the program will be given later.

Flu Has Flown.
All danger of a renewed epidemic of “flu” seems to have passed away. To be truthful, there have been scattered
cases of the disease, four in all, since Christmas. These have been mild, however, and were evidently contracted during the
Christmas holidays. Mrs. Robson now has only one patient, and it is hoped that he will be out again this
week. Dr. Withers also reports that the disease seems to be on the decline in the town itself. At present
there are only two or three known cases among the town's people.

I. G. Heath, ex-'21, in naval uniform, visited his alma mater last week. Fortunately for Freshmen, his visit was brief.
Battling “Ox” Harrel, formerly of the “Alley,” came in on Wednesday of last week. “Babe” Sherrill has returned to college.
He has been in the Army Chemical Corps. The Russian rifles, the last reminders of the S.A.T.C., have been shipped
to an arsenal in Georgia. Incidentally, ex-Private Sam Brady no longer spends all Friday night preparing his piece for Saturday
inspection. Freshman Gunn returned on the same day. V. G. Grantham has been called home on account of the illness
of his brother. J. W. McAllister, ex-'19, and C. W. Angle, ‘18, spent a few hours on the Hill last
Monday. C. H. Wilson, ‘19, returned to college on Monday. He recently received his discharge from the Marine Corps. Miss
Eloise Martin spent the weekend at home, bringing with her Misses Eunice Blue and Hellen Reagan, from Queens.

Richardson enlisted in the Navy a year ago. He was first stationed at Norfolk and later transferred to the Naval
Aviation Department of the Great Lakes Training Camp. He was then detailed to special training at Columbia. He secured his
release at the signing of the armistice.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.
