The DAVIDSONIAN, April 30, 1919

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Officers Installed In Eumenean Society
Phis Have Best Meeting of Year. Show Old Time Pep.

PROGRAM
Saturday Night, May 3, 1919.
Resolved: That the Philippines should be given their independence.
Phi Election of Fall Term officers.
Eu Affirmative — McPheeters, Turner, Richards, Hyland.
Declamation — Gilmer, Ratchford.
Negative — Knight, Martin, Ormond, A. C., Philips.
Oration — Flynn.

EU SOCIETY.
The regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society was called to order by the president, at the usual hour, Saturday,
April 26. The roll call showed about two-thirds of the society present. The subject for discussion was, Resolved, “That the
R. O. T. C. units should be maintained in the American colleges.” The arguments presented by the two sides were
weak and lacked everything that would convince an intelligent body of hearers. The house wearied and fell half asleep over
some of the speeches, only to be aroused on the other extreme by some inspired and flowery Demosthenes, yelling at
the top of his voice. The affirmative was defended by McIlwaine, McAskill, and Liston. This side rightly and justly won
the decision of the judges, by at least half way proving that it would benefit the individual, college, and nation.
The negative was upheld by Robson, McGirt, and Wilkinson. The first of these gentlemen had the best debate of the
evening and without any support would have won. The last two gentlemen, resorting to personalities and stone age argument, furnished
the house with a great variety of amusement. The program for the evening closed by a declamation on the “Death
of Gladstone”, by John Dillon, delivered by McLaughlin. Under the head of general business the following elections took place: For
the Debating Council, Boulware and McCaskill. For Valedictorian, Dendy. For Respondent, McGirt. After these elections, the recently elected officers for
the coming Fall Term took their positions. President Askew delivered a short talk thanking the society for electing him to
the responsible position and also stating that he hoped hereafter the speakers would put an honest effort forth in preparing
their talks. He announced that next Saturday night would be the last of this year’s meetings.

PHI SOCIETY.
The only meeting of the Phi Society last week was held Saturday night from 7:15 to 8:45, inclusive. The roll
call was very impressive. Next followed the reading of the minutes of the last meeting which was the most enjoyable
and novel part of the program. The attendance was fine, nearly one-half of the members of the society being present.
Several other members drifted in later. In fact, it is becoming good form to get in late just as if
the society was a social function. Some of the members must think that they are going out into society instead
of coming to a society. The absence committee retired, as usual, for the mail. The debate on the rights of
Oriental peoples in the United States was unusually good. McGeachy, C. B. Alexander, and Roberts did the honors for the
affirmative. Stone opened up for the negative; Chalmers followed, and R. D. Hall sounded taps for the debate. Chalmers betrayed
a working knowledge of the customs of Chinese and it is suspected that he must have put some work on
the debate. Hall seemed to have considered that his colleagues had already won the debate and that there was no
need for him to speak. At any rate, one would infer this from the poetry, under the guise of a
speech, that he put up, or rather put off, on the house. The debate was really excellent, in fact the
best of the year by far. Every man called for an extra minute and put it to good use. Big
Possum made an oration on “Girls I Have Met.” The talk concerned chemistry and also several members of the house
from the interest manifested by them, anyway. Freeman announced that he wasgoing to entertain the house with a one-man debate.
He quoted Roosevelt quite frequently. In fact, he really gave a declamation. A motion by Spence was carried which gave
every society member one extra credit for each credit he has made this Spring. It is suspected that Spence has
a personal interest in the matter since he got nine credits by the motion.

AMMUNITION ARRIVES.
A more military appearance was given to Davidson last week when fifty-five hundred pounds of ammunition for use in the
R.O.T.C. was hauled to the campus and placed in the old Y.M.C.A. building. If the guns arrive this week, some
target practice may be given by the Commandant.

BELIEVES IN HARMONY.
The practical Reconstruction Aide stopped in at the Orthopedic shop where artificial limbs are made. She told the size leg
required by her patient and gave other information. “The sergeant showed her a pretty pink limb, with hinges and everything.
“That will be fine,” she said. “And now, paint it black, please.” “Black!” said the Sergeant. “What's the idea?” “Oh,
it’s for a colored patient,” she said.

“More than any other war of history, this one has been fought for a principle—for liberty and the safety of
democracy. Principles may be depicted in stone or pictured on canvas, but such representations, however beautiful and symbolical, will not
have life. A principle can live only in the lives of men, and if it is our purpose to perpetuate
the cause for which the great war was fought, we must constantly reiterate and teach the principles of liberty and
democracy to each succeeding generation.”

“This suggests that a memorial worthy of the recent conflict be dynamic; it must be a building that shall honor
the dead by immortalizing the principles for which they made the supreme sacrifice; it must be a building commemorating the
service of the living by giving service, rather than a statue or a shaft in which there could not pulse
the life blood of a new day.” —The American City.

MATRIMONY A LA MODE.
A few words mumbled by a minister constitutes a marriage. A few words mumbled by a sleeping husband constitutes a
divorce. —Exchange.

Dreamy—Her face is queenly and her mouth is the mouth of a princess.
Hard Facts—Yes, even her teeth are crowned. —Exchange.

The Camp Greene Transit Company will operate a 22-Passenger Auto Bus between Mooresville and Charlotte commencing Tuesday, April 1, 1919,
on the following schedule, daily except Sunday:

Leave Mooresville, Goodman’s Drug Store 1:40 P.M. 6:00 P.M.
“ Davidson, White Drug Co. 2:00 6:20
“ Huntersville, Post Office 2:30 6:50
Arrive Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 3:30 7:50
Leave Charlotte, Tate-Brown Co.'s Store 4:00 P.M. 11:00 P.M.
“ Huntersville, Post Office 5:00 12:00
“ Davidson, White Drug Co. 5:30
Arrive Mooresville, Goodman Drug Store 8:50 12:50

This gives the people along this route the opportunity to attend the shows and other amusements in Charlotte and return
home that night. Your patronage solicited.

Respectfully,
Camp Greene Transit Co.
200 Com. Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN
We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics.
We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

-----EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR-----
ED. MELLON CO.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. I carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

CAMP SAPPHIRE
Ideal Location, Complete Equipment, Strong Personnel of the Camp Council.
MILITARY ATHLETIC EDUCATIONAL
On Deer Park Lake, at the foot of Elk Lodge Mountain
BREVARD, N.C.
For Boys Between the Ages of Nine and Eighteen
Season of 1919, July 2 to August 27
For further information, address,
W. McK. Fetzer, Director
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
