When you don't want to short of the very finest have WHITE DRUG CO., Agents

GENTLEMEN
Send your next batch of films to
CUSHMAN’S STUDIO
Charlotte, N. C.
EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt.

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
No. 30 and 26 Chambers

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY : JEWELERS :
611 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

"Chemistry in Religion" Discussed by Dr. Arbuckle
Fundamentals of Christianity Illustrated by Chemical Reaction

The most original service held in Shearer Hall for several years was given by Dr. Arbuckle last Sunday night on
the unique subject “Chemistry in Religion,” which he illustrated with actual experiments. The very nature of the subject was so
unusual and interesting that a large percentage of the student body turned out to hear Dr. Arbuckle. Two tables were
loaded with chemical apparatus, and made the rostrum look like a small laboratory. Dr. Arbuckle was going to find any
connection between chemistry and religion, and what kind of experiments he was going to work kept everyone puzzled. Dr. Arbuckle
handled the difficult subject with ability, however, and made a deep impression upon the minds of his audience.

“Chemistry,” Dr. Arbuckle said, “is an interesting subject.” The world could not have been made without chemical actions. All living
matter is dependent upon chemical actions for existence. It was the purpose of Dr. Arbuckle to emphasize certain moral and
religious facts by showing that they held good in chemistry. In chemistry as in religious life, strong personality and energy
will make themselves vital forces into whatever they enter. A college man endowed with such characteristics can be depended upon
to strengthen and help college life around him. He will be a leader. So it is in chemistry. For illustration,
Dr. Arbuckle took a small rod of iron, tipped with lighted sulphur, and lowered it into a bottle of oxygen.
The powerful energy of the oxygen melted the iron bar, molten drops of which dropped into the water below. On
the other hand, the weak element has as much effect as the strong element in many cases. It is the
little weaknesses that undermine a man's moral character. Men of little influence in college life have their weaknesses clearly shown
when anything they undertake disintegrates. In chemistry, there are certain substances which are so weak that the touch of a
feather renders them powerless. Dr. Arbuckle touched several combinations of chemicals and immediately an explosion occurred. It was a larger
amount of this material which did so much injury to Spencer and Wyman a week ago. The weakness in the
material became a powerful factor to do evil.

The right choice of friends and co-workers plays a large part in a man’s life. Many men who come to
college and accomplish nothing are kept from success by friends who hinder instead of help. Many chemicals cannot act without
a helper. None of us can do much without the great Helper to sustain and direct us. As Dr. Arbuckle
showed in a series of experiments, without cooperation we are greatly hampered in whatever we try to do. No one
should ever try to “carry on” in his own strength, resisting Him who would aid and help that individual. With
Paul, everyone should say, “I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.”

BAD WEATHER HAS NO TERRORS FOR COUNTRY SUNDAY SCHOOLS—ALL SHOW GAINS.

The Sunday Schools had a good day Sunday. All of those who held classes showed at least a slight gain.
Early in the day it was doubtful if it would be possible to hold the meetings. The day cleared up,
however, and all but one of the schools were there in large numbers. Caldwell and Shearer Chapel showed the largest
increase. Caldwell added six to their number of last Sunday, giving a total of seventy, eight of which were teachers.
Shearer Chapel had fifty-four, with eleven teachers. Oak Grove and Cowan each gained three. Cowan numbered thirteen and Oak Grove
thirty-nine, both schools had four teachers. Cornelius reported sixty-nine present with four teachers. The Mill led with an attendance of
sixty-three.

THIS IS WHERE SOME FELLOWS SPEND SUNDAY AFTERNOON.

Probably the most interesting of the seven Mission Sunday Schools of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. is the one
which is maintained at Brawley. This school is located about five miles to the west of Mooresville, in the southwestern
corner of Iredell county. The work at this point has been very successful for several years past. In addition to
the regular Sunday School, some outside speaker is secured as often as possible. Rev. S. H. Hay, of Mooresville; Dr.
Arbuckle,Dr. Richards and Mr. Miles have all taken an active interest in this phase of the work and have done
much to help in building up the school. The people who attend the meetings are of three different denominations. In
spite of this fact, however, they have worked faithfully and harmoniously together. An organ has recently been purchased for the
school and paid for by the contributions of the members.

RELIGIOUS FORECAST FOR COMING SUNDAY—WHY NOT PREPARE A LESSON?

The Bible study groups are daily coming to the place where the problems discussed may be applied to life on
the campus. Last Sunday, everyone attending classes went away with a more concrete idea of the Kingdom of God. Then
too, that after all, worrying does not get a person anywhere. Next Sunday, the study will have to do with
the tasks of the Kingdom of God.

Out of this lesson, four questions of vital interest arise. In the first place, how far is a person who
produces nothing of use to a community? Again, where is the idler’s place in the Kingdom of God? Furthermore, what
is the spiritual obligation of college men to the Kingdom of God? Finally, can an overworked and underpaid workman feel
that he is working for the Kingdom of God? What is your idea in regard to these questions? If you
have an idea, it is worth bringing to class Sunday. Give the class on your hall a trial. Will you?

THAT'S IT! KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK! BIBLE CLASSES SHOW INCREASE.

The total number attending Bible classes Sunday showed a slight increase. Although the number was far short of the first
Sunday, it looks well to be on the upgrade. The count shows that two hundred and twenty were present, which
is not Davidson's best by any means. Louisiana and third floor Watts both had a perfect attendance. Georgia and Watts
were the other dormitories that showed an increase besides Louisiana. Georgia had thirty-one, which is a little better than last
Sunday. Watts gained four, having thirty-nine present. Rumple and Chambers again turned in reports that are slightly under their previous
records. Rumple reported forty-six present and Chambers eighty-three. Since Rumple started with a good record, they still have a good
regular attendance in total numbers. Much life and “pep” is being instilled into the classes, so a steady increase is
looked for.

“Y” SECRETARY FROM WINSTON-SALEM SOON TO ADDRESS LOCAL ORGANIZATION.

Mr. Allen M. Craig, General Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in Winston-Salem, N. C., will speak to the
college Y. M. C. A. next Sunday. When the United States declared war, Mr. Craig volunteered for “Y” service and
was sent to Russia. During his nineteen months’ stay in Russia, Mr. Craig traveled extensively, covering the greater part of
Russia, being in Moscow for a short time during the Russian revolution. There is a possibility that Mr. Craig will
be unable to get here next Sunday, and in such case, he will be with us the following Sunday.

Devotional News

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for
and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN

Something New in Davidson. FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS.

ONE GRADUATE

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training
School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life
and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.”
We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and
then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a
result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

Make Your Stove and Furniture Look new with our Stains and Paints. Stove Pipe Enamel, all kinds of Stains and
White Enamels.

DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.

“Who Builds Your Clothes?”

An important question for every man to decide. Let Tarymore help you. A full line of all wool fabrics, latest
models, all guaranteed.

Matthews & Wilson,
Representatives
16 Chambers

Mention the Davidsonian When You Patronize Advertisers
