The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '14. “The Livest Wire on the Hill.”
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT
D. W. ROBERTS ............ Editor-in-Chief
J. E. CASSELL ............ Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr. ...... Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK ........... Sporting Editor
F. A. SKILL .............. Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS ......... Exchange Editor
T. H. SPENCE ............ Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN .......... Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON ............ Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR. ........ Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE ......... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
R. T. L. LISTON
J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. CRAIG
R. BITZER
B. B. BREITENHIRT
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DORGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
J. M. GILMER
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. P. PRICE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDS
A. C. SUMMERS
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Additional Reporters for This Issue Are:
E. N. BOOKER
Manning Sanders
Dow McIlwaine
Clark Booth
Ormond, A. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
C. J. MATTHEWS .......... Business Manager
H. WILSON ............... Assistant Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
L. L. McAlister ........... Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG .............. Assistant Manager
A. M. MITCHELL .......... Assistant Manager

Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts on account of sickness, D. M. Chalmers has been elected Editor-in-Chief
Pro Tem. As yet there is no definite news as to when “Dave” will return.

“Wake Forest begins secret practice for her game with Davidson.”—Charlotte Observer. The Baptists must indeed have a great school this
year, as the above sounds like Harvard-Yale “dope.” Go to it; we will be there Friday.

College life is very much like the hundred-yard dash, success depends chiefly on the START we make.

There's no doubt about it, you’ve got a clean, spirited team, Guilford.

Who's coming forward with a new yell or that much-needed football song?

Have you ever thought how the campus entrance would look if trash and waste papers were lacking there?

The commissary has a supply of tennis balls. We wonder what they expect us to do with them?

A gentleman never swears—Lord Chesterfield.

HERE’S YOUR CHANCE.

Many men have expressed a desire and willingness to help the Davidsonian, and have asked, “How to go about writing
for it?” The modus operandi is very simple; give your name to the Assignment Editor, J. R. Boulware, Jr. No
talent or experience is necessary, only a willingness to work. You will then receive an assignment, asking you to interview
Mr. So and So, or to write up some particular event. Your work is graded by the staff, an accurate
record is kept of it, and in the spring the election to the Reporters Club is made. For specified work
in the Reporters Club, the Golden Quill is awarded.

GETTING ACQUAINTED.

Only half of our college adjustments were completed when we finished mapping out our academic schedule. We may be able
to predict with accuracy when our next class meets, but can we name with equal accuracy the members of our
class? We may already know our professors by their names (and otherwise) but how many fellows do we know by
name (not to mention nickname)?

A college graduate once gave this advice to freshmen: “Spend lots of time on your college studies but spend as
much more on your college students.” We have been here three weeks and how many men do we really know?
There is a potential friendship in every passing greeting between students. But does not friendship like many other things depend
chiefly on ourselves? Do we not receive exactly what we give? Is not the world a-whispering gallery which returns a
pleasant or harsh note, according to what we send forth? If we frown does it not frown back? If we
smile do not others smile back? If you would have friends then open up and be friendly. When you shake
hands, grasp the hand as though you were glad to see the owner of it, not as though performing a
perfunctory duty. Put your heart into your handshake. The secret of getting next to people according to Marden is to
make everybody you meet feel that you are especially interested in him.

Nowhere in the world is there a laboratory comparable to a college for studying people. Nowhere else will we find
equal opportunities for knowing intimately so many men. Nowhere else will we find people so easy to know. Nowhere else
can as many common interests be found. Yes, fellows, our academic work is important but if it came to a
choice we would choose the “book of human nature” as more important.

OUR CAMPUS.

Everybody knows that we have the most beautiful campus in the South. This is what other people say, and, to
quote Coach Crayton, we admit it. We are proud of it, yet few of us wait to consider how much
money and care is spent each year in trying to keep it attractive. Mr. Jackson and Mr. Hill work faithfully
towards that end, but we do not meet them halfway. There are walks already made that will carry each student
where he needs to go without starting a single new one, but in many cases we seem purposely to avoid
the gravel walks and trample the grass making a criss-cross of needless paths. Of course, these are promptly fertilized by
Mr. Hill, but they are quickly succeeded by similar eyesores. Having to drill on the campus is hard enough on
the grass, but following each other in short-cuts is much worse. This abuse is more thoughtless than vicious, but the
result is just the same. To help keep beautiful what is our most distinctive physical possession, will we not remember,
then:

First: To tack no signs on trees or light poles. The bulletin boards are ample for all kinds of notices.

Second: To play no games west of the front line of Chambers Building. The space at the north end of
Chambers was cleared of trees that there might be space free of foliage for ball throwing, etc., and there is
ample room between Chambers and the Gymnasium for exercise.

Third: To put all waste paper, cigarette boxes, etc., etc., in the trash cans provided in each dormitory. The west
side of Rumple, in full view of every visitor, has been this fall a dumping place for old papers, boxes,
and similar trash. Other parts of the campus are treated in the same way. Fellows, it is up to us.

OPEN FORUM

COMPARATIVE IMPRESSIONS.
(Editor's Note: There are at Davidson a number of men who came here after two or three years spent at
other colleges. It is our purpose to have them tell us through the “Forum” how Davidson’s customs and ideals compare
with those of the colleges they have forsaken).

DAVIDSON VS. MILITARY COLLEGE.

When a fellow finishes High School and plans to enter college, a great question faces him, “What college shall I
choose?” Almost 200 men solve this problem each year by coming to Davidson, which leads us to enquire, “Why do
they choose Davidson?”

As I attended a military school, I wish to compare Davidson with such a school. If a man wishes to
enter the army after college work is completed let him go to a military school, but if he wants to
be broadened so that he will be of great service to his fellowmen, let him come to Davidson. Here everything
is democratic while at a military school the opposite is very largely true. There is a sharp line drawn between
the upper and the freshman class and also between officers and privates. Military duties take upMost of a fellow's time,
leaving very little opportunity for studies and the cultivation of friends. Freshmen are very seldom allowed to room with upperclassmen
and there is very little in common between the classes. At Davidson, a freshman receives a cordial welcome into the
student life and is made to feel absolutely at home. Another difference is that at a military school the professors
are looked upon as commissioned officers, making it utterly impossible for any social life to exist between professors and students,
while at Davidson there is a chance for every man to know the professors not only in the classroom but
also in the home, where a student is always welcome.

“MILITARY” INSPIRES CONFIDENCE.

In stating my opinion of the differences between Davidson and other colleges, one of which I have forsaken, I beg
to disagree with the gentleman whose article appeared in the last issue of the Davidsonian. It falls under my observation
that the spirit at Davidson is not superior to the forsaken college, only there is a difference in the trend.
I find that in other colleges the individual has equally as good a chance as he does here, for after
all what you get out of a thing is exactly what you put into it. But here there is a
determination which falls upon everyone that enters within its walls, to put forth his best and make his life count
for most. One is led to feel that whatever phase of college activities he may enter, his fellow-students are ready
to uphold and encourage him in his endeavor. It is this brotherly spirit that extols the name of Davidson in
the hearts of every loyal alumnus and student. And may that feeling of brotherhood continue to remain embedded in the
life of every loyal student! It is this and this alone that will make Davidson “a Greater Davidson.”

“NUMBER THREE.”

DAVIDSON DEMOCRATIC.

One of the first things to be considered in going from one college to another is the kind of fellows
you are to associate with. Already the writer has found here the friendliest, finest, and most congenial bunch of fellows
that he has ever met up with. Although we have been here only a few weeks, the air is so
full of good fellowship and strong college spirit, that it makes one feel as though he were an old man.
The splendid religious surroundings, so lacking in many colleges today, have a great deal to do with the spirit of
democracy which is so prevalent here. Nobody needs an introduction, everybody speaks or knows everybody else, which is one of
the outstanding features that puts Davidson ahead of most colleges. There is plenty of “pep” to be found on all
sides, whether in the classroom or on the athletic field. The first word on everyone's tongue seems to be “Davidson,”
all working toward the common end for a bigger and a better Davidson.

“NUMBER FOUR.”

IMPRESSIONS OF A GREATER DAVIDSON

The writer has been asked by an active reporter: “How does Davidson look after two years’ absence?” My answer is,
“Finer than ever, but not good enough,” for we are always looking for a “Bigger, Better, Davidson.” The student body
this year is unquestionably the best we have ever had here, and while we will have larger numbers from year
to year, we will never have the present condition where so many men who have been away for one or
two years have returned to college to finish their work. This gives us here, even in the lower classes, men
who have been through the great war, men who have filled positions of great responsibility, who are already mature, and
who have had the opportunity of observing other schools, and other lands before taking up their work here. These men
will give a tone and steadiness to the student body which will make itself felt throughout this year. While I
have examined only about fifty of the new men, I can safely say that the new class is above the
standard physically, probably the result of interest in military drill in all schools. Davidson is unusually fortunate in having a
former major of the artillery for athletic coach, and a lieutenant-colonel who is a graduate of West Point at the
head of military training. All of these things are for the better and in line with our ideas for a
Greater Davidson.

To one who has been away for some time, Davidson appears striking in her natural beauty of campus, but unfortunately
rather untidy and unkempt in the appearance of buildings and classrooms. The college needs and must have more classrooms and
of a more up-to-date character. It does not compare favorably with many other institutions in this respect. Again we must
have a large dining hall. The statements in the catalogue in regard to the advantages of private boarding houses over
the common dining hall were true when written, but the same conditions no longer remain. We must have a large
and modern dining hall, with proper cooking equipment where the food is properly cooked and served and such a place
can be made to pay a small profit and at the same time lower the cost of living. There will
always be a number of students who will desire to board at private homes and they can be accommodated while
the commons would take care of the majority. The first money available should be used for this purpose.

Again, I would like to see a certain amount of shop work and manual training introduced here. To train a
student to use his brain is well and good, but from present economic conditions it would appear that it is
of equal importance to be able to use the hands. This course would not be a highly technical course such
as is given in our A. & M. Colleges, but would be a course parallel to one in Mechanical Drawing.
The writer feels sure that such a course would have been of far greater value to him than some of
the courses he studied in college some years ago. Let us look forward confidently to a Greater Davidson, not Old
Davidson, but New Davidson. Not a college of 500 students but one of 1,000 or more. Not a college that
confines its clientele to the Southern Presbyterian Church, but an institution which while still under the care of that church,
will be so advanced and so thorough and offer so much, that it will draw students in increasing numbers from
all parts of the country.

DR. WILSON MacCONNELL.

GOLF CLUB WANTS NEW MEN.

Again the golf enthusiasts will have a chance to dig up the golf course, according to an announcement of Dr.
Arbuckle Monday morning. Several men have been secured to fill up the holes made by last year's aspirants, and the
golf course will be in shape the latter part of the week. It is hoped that a large number of
students will avail themselves of the splendid opportunity to learn golf, and join the club. The fee charged is nominal,
and gives every student a chance to get a pleasant and profitable form of exercise at minimum cost.

R. O. T. C. SOON TO BE FULLY EQUIPPED.

A shipment of 182 complete uniforms is on the way for the R. O. T. C. unit and is expected
any time. As soon as these arrive, all men will receive their complete equipment. All four companies have been issued
rifles. Companies A and B have received their full equipment, including the complete field pack.

Beginning Monday, September 15, the Book Room will be open for one hour only each day, from 9 to 10
A. M. The Treasurer's office will be open for business with the students until 1 o’clock each day and closed
for office work and routine matters after that hour.

F. L. JACKSON.
