THEDAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1919.

Y. M. C. A. Meeting Vol. VI.

Football “D’s” Are Awarded

Saturday morning amid the clapping of hands, the stamping of feet, the cheering of the crowd and other outward manifestations of the student body's pride in and honor for our Varsity football team, the letters were presented to the successful contestants in football during the past season. “Railroad” Clark, president of the Athletic Association, was master of ceremonies.

As each boy stepped up to receive the coveted “D” a storm of applause greeted him. Those receiving letters were: W. B. Crouch, G. M. Robson, C. B. Robson, F. L. White, L. I. McAlister, H. M. Spann, J. C. McMaster, S. R. Brady, H. H. Massey, E. M. Fishel, W. I. Johnson, and Pitts Douglas. These men were initiated into the Mystic “D” Club on Saturday night. All Davidson men are proud of the record of the past season in football, and we wish to congratulate those who received “D’s,” one and all, in winning the highest honor conferred by the Davidson Athletic Association. The winners of “D. C.” will be announced in a later issue.

NO DEFINITE PLANS FOR R.O.T.C. UNIT YET MADE

In view of the fact that no information has been received by the college in regard to the R. O. T. C. unit which is to be established here this spring, it is entirely impossible to give the students any light on the matter at the present writing. Until the officer who is to be in charge of the unit is designated and arrives to assume his duties, nothing whatever can be said relative to the working plans that are to be formulated and carried out here at Davidson.

As regards credit for the work done by those who enlist in the R. O. T. C., the faculty has definitely agreed to give full credit for this course just as any other course, allowing the student to substitute the military training for any required course he may so desire. In the case of Freshmen and Sophomores, the training is compulsory, still the opportunity is afforded them to drop one of their required courses in favor of the military training. For Juniors and Seniors, the course is entirely elective, credit for one period being given should they so desire to take the training.

It is readily seen that although at so late a date military training is universally placing itself in the college and is rapidly becoming a most important feature in the training of the college man. It is needless to attempt to picture the need and necessity for it.

Friends of Mrs. Mary C. Lawrason will regret to hear of her death at Vancouver, B. C., on November 15, news of which has just been received here. Mrs. Lawrason, with her daughter, Miss Tennie Lawrason, spent a year or two in Davidson, in the home of Mr. L. R. Smith, and her dignity and charm impressed all who came in touch with her.

Sunday Night

The Y. M. C. A. held its first meeting of the new year on last Sunday evening. The work of the Y. M. C. A. was presented to the students and they were urged to take an active part in it. K. G. Lilly, president of the Student Association, in a forceful manner showed why it was the duty of everyone to share in the work. He showed the wonderful opportunities afforded to everyone and appealed to the students to take advantage of them. Emery Flynn then outlined the work in the eight country Sunday schools run by the Y. M. C. A. He told how much the people appreciated the work that the Davidson boys did in these schools. Miles closed the meeting with a short talk on the social work which he is planning.

Movies and Bible Classes

Did you enjoy the movies Saturday night? Our “Y” did that for us, and they are going to do a whole lot more this spring. Bible classes will be held every Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. Last Sunday only about 125 men were enrolled owing to the confusion of starting the regular college life again. This week the motto is to be “Have You Joined?” and by next Sunday it is hoped that every man in college will have joined one of these classes. Read over the list of classes and see which would be the most convenient for you to go to. The schedule is as follows:

Chambers, north wing, first floor, S. M. Gilbert, room 13; third floor, C. B. Robson, room 72. Chambers, south wing, second floor, D. M. Chalmers, room 49; third floor, E. A. Woods, room 82. Georgia, first floor, R. B. Cunningham, room 10; second floor, Emery Flynn, room 13; third floor, R. C. Garth, room 25. Watts, first floor, R. R. Clark, room 8; second floor, J. H. Miller, room 9; third floor, E. G. Lilly, room 23. Rumple, west side, first floor, S. T. McCloy, room 19; third floor, A. D. McArn, room 29. Rumple, east side, first floor, A. R. Craig, room 5; third floor, L. G. Calhoun, room 12.

Who Is My Neighbor?

Next Sunday at 6:30 Mr. Miles is to speak on “Who is My Neighbor on Davidson Campus?” There was a good attendance last Sunday, but no one can afford to miss next Sunday's service.

Sunday School Work

It has been necessary to temporarily discontinue the country Sunday school work on account of the influenza epidemic in the rural districts, but as soon as conditions are sufficiently improved it will be started again. There are eight of these schools, ranging from two to twelve miles apart. Flynn in his talk Sunday night brought out the fact that Davidson was noted for its interest in this work and we cannot afford to let it drag. A large number of men volunteered to help in this and other “Y” work, but more men can be used on a number of the committees. Anyone desiring to have a part in this work should hand their name to E. G. Lilly at once so he can assign them.

Have You Joined?

Basketball Begins Class Games This Week

Plenty of Material and Varsity Prospects are Fine.

Basketball practice starts this week and theThe schedule for class contests is being arranged so as to be completed soon. From the teams which represent the several classes, Coach Fetzer will pick the Varsity squad. Very few of the old Varsity men are back, and there is an opportunity for everyone who goes out. There was a great deal of spirit manifested in Company games in the days of the S.A.T.C., and it is expected that an even larger number of fellows will be out to help take their class team champions. Class athletics not only promote greater class spirit, which means so much to the student, but it is one of the best agencies to keep up the old Davidson pep, and it gives those who are interested a good chance to make the Varsity squad later on. During the next two weeks, while the class games will attract most attention, Varsity practice will be held three times a week at night. A trip through Virginia is being planned for the Varsity about the middle of February by Coach Fetzer.

PROSPECTS FOR THE ANNUAL
The Senior class held a meeting Monday morning and it was decided by all means to get out an Annual and to leave it to the discretion of the management as to the cost, size, etc. The printing and binding is to be done by the Benson Company of Nashville, whose representative was on the Hill Monday, and it was decided to get out a 200-page leather-bound book, and the quality of the engraving is to be in no way cut down. It is hoped that the Annual may be put out by May 20, and they will sell for $3 each, credit being given for the blanket fee payment. It is requested that all who will try out for the art staff and anyone else who can do any work in any way pertaining to an Annual see the editor-in-chief as soon as possible, for it is very necessary that all the proof go in at the earliest possible moment. With a little cooperation on the part of the students, this year’s Annual will without doubt do as much credit to the school as its predecessors.

FIRST MEETING OF MINISTERIAL BAND
With about 30 members as a nucleus, the Ministerial Band began its spring term work in Shearer Hall last Sabbath. The meeting was addressed by A. R. Craig on the “Life of Mark,” after which D. W. Roberts made a few remarks. The president, W. M. Currie, has returned, and under his leadership, the band looks forward to great things this spring. All men who look forward to a life of service in the Gospel ministry will find it worthwhile to join this organization. Other games are being arranged.

SONIAN No. 11
Letter From Mr. Parker
Dear Fellow Workers:
Since writing last, we have had a siege of influenza here also, just as you have had in all the rest of the world. We had to close all the schools here for about ten days, as most of the pupils became sick. We had no very severe cases here in our schools, though some died in the city, and we consider ourselves most fortunate when we hear the reports from everywhere else, almost. Personally, I was sick in bed only one day, and Mrs. Parker has escaped so far. Jean has had a cold for some weeks, but it does not seem to be serious. God has certainly been good to us in every way. We started up school over a week ago now, and all the boys are back with very few exceptions. Some of the teachers are still sick, but we hope to have them back soon also, so that we will be on our two feet again. Some of the boys went to their homes while sick, but most of them stayed here. We have a good hospital here, and they could get medical treatment in their rooms, though some of them had to enter the hospital itself for a few days, I believe. It has turned very cold now, and we think that this will prevent the further spread of the disease; and for that reason, we are glad to see the cold, though fuel is so hard to get that there will be much suffering this winter. We have not been able to get our winter coal yet, and are not sure that we can obtain what we want, though we can get some coal of a very poor grade. We may have to use this altogether.

Last Monday, Mr. Pak, a newly ordained preacher who graduated from the Seminary last spring, left for China to do missionary work there. As you know, the Korean Church has been doing missionary work in China for several years now, the first missionaries being sent there in 1920, I believe. The work has not been without its discouragements, as one of the first missionaries came back home sick and died soon after getting back, and the other two left about a year ago for other reasons. But last year, the Church sent two new men with their families to the same field in China where the church there had been started, and this year these men called for reinforcements, so Mr. Pak was sent out. The church started by the first missionaries had some twenty members, and these Chinese showed great love towards the Koreans who were laboring among them, and particularly were they touched by the labors of the one who got sick and came home to die. These men work in connection with the American missionaries in China, but they have a field of their own to work which is not being touched by other evangelistic labors. The native church here in Korea supports them, of course. The Koreans have to learn the Chinese language and customs, for quite a number of things are different there, though of course, the East is the East, and Koreans can understand Chinese better than we can ever do. Remember this work in your prayers, and especially remember Mr. Pak as he begins his work there at this time.

You remember the two young men of whom I spoke to you last time. I have since that time seen several times the one who works in the post office, and he still (Continued on page 4)