The DAVIDSONIAN, May 28, 1919

The Spring and the recent commencement week is largely responsible for the “Amorous” thread of sentiment in the following paragraphs.
(The Editors).

S. T. McCloy, B.A., M.A., X.Y.Z.

“Are you going to stay for Commencement this year?” Ducky was greatly annoyed by having so many Freshmen asking him
this embarrassing question. But then, the Freshmen were not altogether to blame, for who would think, or even suspect, from
his youthful appearance, that S. T. McCloy was a loyal alumnus of Davidson College and a “High Knocker” in the
M. A. Club. In the case of this young man, looks really are deceiving, for “Ducky” has a store of
wisdom beyond his years and he is a bright student (he is on the roll of oil burners), a hard
worker and a good friend to all of us.

Dr. A. R. Craig, D.D., Ph.D.

At the last initiation of the “D” Club there was only one man who looked at ease. Augustus R. Craig
was perfectly at home in the conventional dress of a South Carolina farmer. "Gustus got in training for track by
giving a rabbit twenty yards start and catching it before it got to the end of the cotton row. Incidentally,
the farmer by nature and parson by choice managed to pass five tickets this spring and thereby get his M.A.
We wish the best of luck to this worker, sportsman, and gentleman wherever he may go.

Mr. “Whistle” Richard Humphrey, B.A. (?)

William Guy Humphrey, who bears the name of “Whistle” stamped on his brass collar, hails from Greenwood, Miss. ‘Whistle’ earned
his A.B. at Davidson, with the class of '18. He enlisted immediately in the Marines, saw action in Paris Island,
S. C., and Quantico, and returned to Davidson a casualty in search of a vocation. He has won his M.A.
this term and the success that has followed him through Davidson will, without a doubt, be his in the business
world.

Hon. “String Bean” Medskill, Jackson Springs Village.

“String Bean” will leave for Jackson Springs as soon as he gets his “Goat Skin.” There he will enter the
race as candidate for Sheriff, having observed the methods of Anderson and “Cop” Johnson—later in life he aspires to the
mayorship of Jackson Springs.

Rev. Mr. “Bill” Currie, A.B. ?

Professor: Mr. Currie, how did you get that bump on your head?
Bill: That is where a thought struck me, Doctor.
So it is with Bill, a good student and a fine fellow. We predict a great future for this lad.
When he leaves the Seminary—there will be many calls waiting for him from many of our largest (?) churches. Luck
to you, old boy.

We Now Introduce You to the Right Hon. J. H. Patterson, of Moscogee, Fla.

“Pat,” or most familiarly known as “Cousin Pepper,” hails from Moscogee, Fla. This short, dried up, sawed off specimen of
a “Florida Bean” spent a year in the Marine Corps as a Corporal, and he always delights to tell of
his days spent in the Corps. From what we can understand, he had all the men in “Philly” scared to
death for fear he would work havoc with the hearts of their dear ones. “Pat” is a man with a
ready wit and a geniality that makes us glad that he was with us.

Mr. G. M. Robson, of “Birdsville,” is Next in Order.

George McRea Robson has so well distinguished himself in the science of “Bug-ology” here as to merit the name of
“Jay-bird” the Second. Besides this great accomplishment, Robson is a regular social “Jazz-hound.” He cries because there are no more
N. C. hearts for him to break. As he leaves us, we wish him well in his new venture. He
goes to Louisiana, there to become corresponding secretary of one of the world’s most famous matrimonial bureaus.

Professor C. B. Robson, Ph.D.

Young C. B. Robson, alias “Pat,” better known as “Chubby Cheeks,” graduates from “D. C.” at the tender age of
eighteen. As he is too young yet to go out into the great Arena of life, next year will find
him again in “Prep” school. He goes to McCallie School for Boys, where we hope his “Pugilistic” Irish nature will
serve him well.

THE SENIORS’ OWN “JUST HATCHED, HASN'T SCRATCHED YET"

We Pull Aside the Curtains to Reveal Mr. “Emmy” Flynn, the “Wonder Kid" From A-T-L-A-N-T-A (the one in Georgia).

Emory Flynn, — the winsome one. That’s him all over. It is too bad the way the ladies like him—they
worry him to death—but we can’t blame them. One of them got so far as to make him confess that
he was married—but do you believe that? Ask him; he knows. He has a weakness for Maxwell cars, and Sunday
night “Dinners” in the country where he teaches the “Children” their Sunday school lesson. He is the only man in
college that can mix business, pleasure, college work, and dates and get away with it. No, er, we don’t know
why he parts his hair in the middle—ask him, he knows. But we do know that he won’t tell how
many he invited to commencement.

Georgia! Peachy Georgia! You Do Well to Send Your Illustrious Hero, Mr. Robert Brown Cunningham, Esq., to Our “Scollege.”

In “Bob” we have a man teeming with energy and vivacity. As manager of the baseball team this year, “Bob”
proved his right to be called the most wide awake man on the Hill. His efforts to have all the
men on time to all trains were untiring, especially on the occasion when the team left on the early morning
train. A young man of such an active and enthusiastic temperament should make a sure place for himself in the
business world.

Mr. Hardy Boy Dendy—Also is a Georgia Peach (Better Known as the “Cussing Parson.”)

Henry Benson Dendy first won fame as the arch fiend of “Hell Alley,” the famous Elysian Boulevard of south wing
Chambers. However, he was enticed from his lair and this year has been disturbing the peaceful rest and studious habits
of third floor North Wing by his jazzing habits and his fondness for ringing the ancient college bell at irregular
hours. “Pep” to push it. Luck to “Amo.”

Karl Alexander Turner: From the land of Cole Blease, cold beer—no Blease, no beer, “That’s Pee-Wee.” He hails from the
flower-bowered city of Winnsboro, or is it Windsboro? But whether it’s one or the other it’s in a great old
state—now ain’t that right? And there is no doubt but that EAT will live up to the reputation of his
native city down in the land of the old Palmetto state. Ask any girl, especially the one he winked at
the night he was marshal, if he isn’t good looking, and you can just bet that she will be quick
to say, YES. Some say that he is in love, but this is emphatically denied. But still he receives many
delicately scented epistles. Who wrote them? I wonder—yes, I wonder. Earl is a Physics stud but he wouldn’t post the
grades until the Fresh. and Sophs had left the Hill. But he is a rival of Newton, and we predict
unqualifiedly that he will be a great success in whatever he undertakes.

Joseph T. Miller, Junior (very young), of the little burg of Rock Hill, in South Carolina—is a Gibraltar of the
Northern boundary town of the state to our south. “Joe” is a very nice fellow, and very fine. He has
many accomplishments but perhaps the greatest is his ability to play field on the unconquerable Davidson baseball team. He goes
home from here to go into business—so we wish to direct you to him, for he has chosen as his
motto: “If it’s anything in insurance, let ‘Joe’ write it.” It is good to be sure but, as “Joe” would
put it, it’s better to be insured.” We wish him a life of great prosperity and joy in his new
adventure.

Robert Campbell Garth.

Oh girls, listen! Sweet nineteen and ain’t been kissed yet. Sounds fishy, but honest, it’s true. But he’s promised to
reform and has promised five fellows to write them and describe his experiences when he first joins the Cleopatra Club.
What an opportunity oh Fair Maidens for an evening of bliss in administering the first degree. Won’t you help out
this poor boy in giving him his finishing touches on his education? It’ll be fine, that’s sure, for Bobbie’s an
awful good looking boy, and has most winsome qualities that are best left unmentioned. His occupation is mainly dancing and
for the cultivation of this art he has been a faithful student of Greek VI. Besides this he takes public
speaking, drill and another ticker and incidentally makes the honor roll. His reputation as a food tester is of much
concern to the local dispersers of hash.Soulful eyes. Bobbie's favorite song is “I ain't had no kisses yet, but when
I get them they'll be good you bet.” That ain't the song, but it sounds like it. If you want
the song, write Cellus Cameron—he knows it. Bob's going to take in New York with Jasper Cullum this summer, and
don’t you know he'll have a big time? Be careful, Bob, be careful.

William Alfred Hall, Jr. General. By that name is he known to all the campus, and by that name will
we vote for him for President when he runs. General attributes his success in College to that old (censored). He
is very sad just now though, for as he says one of his helpers will soon pass away. He can
only sing “Lemon extract will go fine when July the First comes round.” As speaker of the evening at the
Senior Banquet his closing words were: “Your names are inscribed in golden characters upon my heart by the hand of
love.” That shows he's an orator. General’s got a girl, too—way out in Oklahoma, and he is going to get
a haircut and a shave and pawn his clothes and go out to see her. He hopes.

O. P. Heart-Breaker. O. P. (alias) William S. Hart is one of the few boys in college who knows more
about some things than you do but does not advertise the fact. We never have found out why, but he
likes a good cook that is single. Perhaps you will know by the time you read this. However, if you
don't, she does, so don’t worry about that anymore. We have one guess as to who looks most dignified in
a dress suit of any of the marshals and we would bet our chance to make the punctuality roll on
that one guess, that we are right when we say that it is he.

Gordon P. Scott, of Braukneal, Virginny. Scott is famous around Davidson as soldier, Greek stud, and ladies’ man—and probably greatest
as ladies’ man. From the early days of childhood when he was mascot for the senior class of Mitchell College,
he has grown up in the atmosphere of feminine environment and in the witchery and graces of their smiles. Someone
recently asked this “Lady-killer” where he was loved best by the ladies—imagine the startled expression on the face of this
friend as Scott laconically replied, “Around my neck.” Several times of late Scott has been out way late into the
night, to return in the early watches of the morning with the disheveled expression of one in melancholic mania. A
friend followed this fitful Hamlet one night and declares that Scott was seen to tear his hair and to cry
out in great desperation, “Water, water may be fine. But give me Haig and Haig all the time!” Psychologists and
Pathologists who have had the case in hand have reached the conclusion that Scott is the victim of great mental
depression due to the approach of July 1.

We Now Present Neal “Y” Pharr for Your Consideration. “X. Y. Z.," “Xenophon” and “New York” are a few of
the various cognomens applied to this versatile youth from the “Queen City.” The origin of the first is unknown, the
second came from his early prosperity for Greek literature and the last is easily. There are other handles (censored) put
to this remarkable genius but although quite applicable, still concealer is well deserved and is a matter of hours. His
chief claim to fame rests upon his invention of a new way to pass a Re-Exam on Soph. Bug, being
unable to pass it in the regular way on account of deficiency in English grammar. From present indications he bids
fair to be a preacher with a very forceful flow of lingua.

Mr. James Jay (Bird) Love. “Amo”—the man who made the annual bi-annual, James Jay(bird) Love. Ain't that a name? But
still he is proud of it. His jovial and rotund countenance has often graced the festal board as can be
proven by his extended waistline. When it comes to laziness—c’est finis. “Amo” has been to only ten chapels in four
years. We wonder how he does it. But listen, ladies. He is a bear in a chair, for he can
love like he can fight, and, by the way, he was a Plattsburg wonder—Second Lieut. of Infantry, in the S.
A. T. C. If he could get a degree by sleeping he would be the best educated man in the
world. Yet after all has been said, “Amo” will be a success in life, for he has ability and the.

Joddie Miller, the Man That Put the for her to return as Mrs. General, and they will live forever after
“Where the walls are paved with Jasper, and where the river Shannon flows.”

Edgar Allen Woods. Successor to Poe—last of the Chinese triumvirate—such is Edgar, the great Buddhist. But he reformed his ways;
and went over to Hellenism recently—harkening to the voices of beauty and of love. Correcting Bible papers has been his
hobby and his delight, but woe unto him should he ever meet one of those Fresh or those Sophs whom
he flunked. But now he is like the raven and will do it nevermore. If you are ever in doubt
about how much wine will make you drunk—ask Edgar—he knows.

Robert Brookes Peters, Jr. Pete—the ladies’ delight, and the pride of Tarboro. He is quoted as inscribing an epistle to
a petite damsel of the town of his nativity recently in which he said: “Now, that I have the reward
of my four years’ struggle (little struggling Pete ever did. For struggling ask General Hall) I expect to soon return
to the place of my parental domicile, and when I do I shall journey over to your house in my
horseless chariot and ask you to be my chauffeur on the Highway of Life.” But Pete is changeable as is
shown by his changing his pie from first to last during his courses, so beware, young lady, beware.

Mr. Jasper Welcome Hasting Cullum, Esq. Welcome Hastings Cullum, yours in “Bull-Sheviki,” here we are girls. He is a beauty
and a parlor snake with it. His is a tender and susceptible heart roaming through the desert of life and
when it comes upon an oasis of love it bubbles forth sweet nothings in the sky kissing palms. We have
an idea that Jasper is in love—do you remember Poe's Helen? Watch the Davidsonian for announcements. He has the record
of never missing a single Saturday night's performance at Keith's. That is not all, either. He hails from Aiken, S.
C., and other Cullums are to follow. He is going to New York this summer as he predicts a long
dry spell after July 1. Jasper has a smile always on his face (no cosmetics) and a friendly word for
all.

Professor “Cruel Howl,” the Bolsheviki Leader. Clewell Howell is our most ardent and radical aspirant. Scotland Yard detectives have identified
him as leader of the Davidson “Bolsheviki.” From the time he raised such a “Cruel Howl” from our conservative pastor
and faculty by introducing female Camouflage into a Junior speaking concert, this radical socialist has lost himself more and more
in his “Red” revolutionary ideas. The most manifest revelation of this ferocity of purpose has developed in connection with his
assistancy in Biology these spring months. The said Howell has been observed to penetrate forth and gaze upon the stars
in broad daylight, to pace the campus walks bareheaded, and several students have observed a light burning in the wee
hours of the morning, and a book of Astrological Biology, with incendiary notes, in a peculiar printed handwriting have been
picked from his desk. The latest developments have been the startling growth of a small threatening, nervous black cloud “scarce
the size of a man’s hand” upon the upper lip. The skilled detectives have been carefully investigating the case. Additional
evidence has very recently been unearthed which may prove a culmination and solution from this most mysterious case. Early one
morning said Howell was found in the Biology department gloating exultantly over an old empty bird's nest and wildly exclaiming
to himself, “There it is, gentlemen. There it is, gentlemen. I have found it, I have found it, and shall
have it!”

(Tedy) R(oosevelt) Alexander. “Alec” is an all-round college fellow. He is a French stud, Literary Society “Bull artist,” track man,
and lady killer. “Alec” is one of those fellows who stakes his claim and never leaves it until achieved. They
say ‘tis the “Old Scotch” in him. It was on one of our commencement nights that he was heard in
ardent debate with a “Fair one” to reply, “No, it wasn’t blue, it was green. You are too green to
see it.” The witness testified that it was only “Alec’s” track training that enabled him to “beat it” without suffering
serious casualties.

(Continued on Page 9)
