Spalding Sweaters
A STYLE IN THE TRUE ATHLETIC BUILD FOR EVERY OUTDOOR PURPOSE

For First Week’s Practice Too Early for Many Predictions; Indications Point to Excellent Team.

Send for Catalogue
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Davidson this year will in all probability be represented by the best team in her history. Our former Coach “Bill” has said that Davidson has the best material and the best prospects this year that she has ever had. Most of last year’s team and reserves have returned, as well as several men from the service, and an abundance of good new material. Not only this but we believe that we have one of the very best coaches in the country in Coach Crayton and one who we are glad to say is like Coach “Bill.”

Spann, our quarterback of the past two seasons and captain of the Red and Black machine this year, is playing his old position. Dick, of Clemson College; Cassel and Ormand are all showing up well in this important position. “Jack” Black, an old Davidson player, well known throughout the South and a tower of strength on former teams, is back in his old position in the backfield. McAlister, of last year’s team; Martin, of Auburn; Shepherd, of A. & E., and McFadden, of last year’s reserves, are all showing up exceedingly well in the backfield. Douglas, of last year’s team; Harris, of the 1917 reserves; G. Miley, of last year’s reserves, and R. Black, of A. & E., are running a close race for the end positions.

In the line Brady and McMaster, veterans of former teams; Hammett, a mainstay on Clemson’s team last year; Romefelt, a veteran of the 1917 reserves; LaFar, a reserve of last year, and Nimacks, who returns from the service, are all working hard and will probably occupy berths on the team. Besides these men there is an abundance of good material in the new men. These men are working hard and will in all probability push someone hard for a place on the varsity.

Frank Hall, manager of the “Wildcats,” has arranged an excellent schedule and as usual Davidson will meet some of the strongest teams in the South. The first game will be played with Guilford College at Winston-Salem, September 20. The following week, September 27, the Wildcats will play Wake Forest at Wake Forest. Among the teams to be played are Clemson, Washington and Lee, U.S.C., V.M.I., Georgia Tech, A. & E., U.N.C., Presbyterian College of S.C., and Furman. One game, that with Presbyterian College, will be played on the local field. The A. & E. game will be played in Charlotte and a special train will probably take the student body down to see the “Wildcats” play Coach Fetzer’s team. The “Wildcats” are working hard and Davidson stands solidly behind them.

The Raleigh Cafe
For Ladies and Gentlemen
Best Dining Service in the City
TOM MATTHEWS, Prop.
West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N.C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

Shoe Repairing
For neatness and durability send your shoes to the Shu Fixery, Charlotte, N.C.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
For the convenience of the new men who perhaps have not seen the football schedule for this year, same is being printed a second time in this issue:

Sept. 20—Davidson vs. Guilford, at Winston-Salem, N.C.
Sept. 27—Davidson vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest, N.C.
Oct. 4—Davidson vs. Clemson, at Clemson, S.C.
Oct. 11—Davidson vs. Washington and Lee, at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 18—Davidson vs. University of South Carolina, at Columbia, S.C.
Oct. 25—Davidson vs. V.M.I., at Roanoke, Va.
Nov. 1—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech, at Atlanta, Ga.
Nov. 8—Davidson vs. North Carolina A. & E., at Winston-Salem, N.C.
Nov. 22—Davidson vs. Presbyterian College of South Carolina, at Davidson, N.C.
Nov. 27—Davidson vs. Furman, at Greenville, S.C.

W.C. & G.N. NEEL, Agents
30 and 36 Chambers
Belk Bros.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
COMPLETE LINE OF College Men’s Suits, Overcoats, Hats and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices

Prohibition Speaker: Fellow-countrymen, prohibition has now brought sunshine into many homes, and moonshine, too.

Football Shows Up Well
Bloody Sophs Trim Class ’23, 5 to 1
Intimidated Fresh Fail to Withstand Attack of Upper Classmen.

Saturday afternoon shortly after the noon-day dispensation of hash vast crowds began to gather around Sprunt initiation field to see the annual battle royal. The high stadium was crowded to overflowing, and the anxious cries of the restless mob showed that much pep (and money) was up. At first the odds were 3 to 1 against the sophs, but when these illustrious hot bloods came prancing out attired in garments of conflict with war paint on their faces, enthusiasm in the abilities of the infant class began to dwindle. Amid great cheers Birchie Romefelt climbed the mound and prepared to descend upon the delicate young specimens of verdure without any idea of even allowing them to measure the speed of those lightning balls. For five thrilling innings he pitched airtight ball, allowing only two hits. Birchie is beyond doubt a wonder, but the best authorities say that the fresh defeat was merely a piece of hard luck, for the fresh had just picked out a pinch hitter and Gunn was next up when...The whistle blew—and loaded too. The only thing that saved Dutch Hengeveld's rep is the fact that he graduated last year, for nine gritty fresh gave conclusive evidence that their batting average will push nine hundred close. Although five men were employed to keep score, it was impossible to tell errors from hits, so one hit has been ascribed to each side. No attempt was made to keep a record of errors, but we hope that when a later edition of calculus comes from the press we shall be able to print an approximate figure. Suffice it to say that there was only glory enough for all, and we predict that Coach Crayton will have no trouble in picking out a winning team next spring if only he remembers these fresh.

Score by innings: Hits.
Sophs ..... 2030*—6
Fresh ..... 00100—2

Struck out by Romefelt 5; by Roberts, 3; walked by Romefelt 2; by Roberts 3.

“Have backbone enough to live as the folks at home wish you to. You may want to go back some time.” This quotation is taken from the Kansas State Collegian and it is given here because it is good enough to repeat if it will cause someone to think for a moment. Are you now taking advantage of every opportunity offered you? Do you not often waste your time by getting with “the crowd” during study hours? Would you like for the folks at home to know what you are doing right now? If so, would they welcome you back as they do?

Some students may be able to pass the above examination but in every student body there will be found those who cannot. They may try to excuse themselves by saying that they are “as good as the others” in their classes but this excuse is not valid. If those in their classes cannot pass, it is time for them to make some change. The days spent in school are possibly of more importance to the student than any others; for in later life he will have to build on the foundation laid here, and the foundation determines whether or not the structure will stand. Now, while you are a student, this is the time to think and act on the quotation.—Exchange.

FORMING HABITS.

We are constantly reminded of the fact that our college days are habit-forming days. Whether we form good or bad habits is left largely to the individual. To the new men especially we wish to drop this hint: You can form no better or more profitable habit than visiting the library regularly. Set aside an hour each day for your “library hour”—put it on your schedule so that you will not forget it while you are forming this excellent habit, and soon you will not have to refer to your schedule—you will be looking forward to this hour as the most pleasant in the day’s work.—Exchange.

A Voice in the Rear: Yes, brother, the DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

Athletic News

Everybody Welcome at the “Y”

Rest Room will be open. Remember where it is and that you are always welcome.

Prof. J. B. Wharey, ’92, of the University of Texas, is spending the week with Dr. Grey. Mr. Wharey is professor of English in the University of Texas.

Give It a Try, You Will Like the Place.

One of the best social features of the “Y” on the campus is the rest room in the new gym. For the benefit of the new men, it is the first door to the left as you enter. This room is much better equipped than it was last spring, several new features having been added. It belongs to every fellow ‘on the Hill’ and it should be used to full advantage by everyone. Here will be found not only a place to rest, but good magazines, a victrola, a player piano and several checker tables. At all times during the day, this room will be open.

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, S. C.

Faculty

THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary, Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis.
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis.
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church Polity.
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics.
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages.
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution.
WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology.

Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A. H. McKINNEY, D.D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D.

Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church. Write to

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber

If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

“Hey, Fellows”

Among other things that have advanced along with the high cost of living is the milk of human kindness. It is still a free commodity. Do your part to increase the supply so the price won’t go up. Come in and pass the time of day even if you haven’t a nickel to spend. If you have it suits the firm.

HAVE BEEN W-A-I-T-I-N-G ON THE TRADE for the past three months and am now ready to serve you.

L. A. Elliott
Everything Good to Eat