The DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1919

T. Abraham Boaz, the last of the Yiddish to be left in Georgia, has given up the organization of his
“Sons of Jerusalem” club on account of the nearness of examinations. This has not affected his week-end trips to Charlotte,
however.

Since General Hall has received his bonus, he doesn't have to take his weekly walk to Troutmans via Farmer Mellon's.

A. “Shed” McArn's impersonation of Caruso singing “Micky” while at the same time holding down the initial sack in the
Wake Forest game was rudely interrupted by a wicked blow in the solar plexus from a ball delivered by Buck
Currie.

John D. Wiley made another visit to the “Ante-Bellum” Cafe in Statesville Saturday. He was accompanied by “Whistle Richard” Humphrey
and Bagdad Brown.

It is claimed by the Soph Physics class that “Successful” Lilly has invented a new way to prevent Polarization.

“Velvety Jocky” Walker is very much interested in a short course from the Dickson School of Memory. The only objection
is that he forgot to send the application blank off. We hope that he will derive great benefit from the
instruction.

Question on History Review: What was the course of study in the Athenian schools?
Fresh Answer: Astronomy, Mathematics, and English.

Customer to Beall: “Hey! that box of crackers you're giving me is old.”
Beall—“They're all old.”

“Boost Davidson till she booms” this summer and talk up “The Davidsonian,” the largest weekly on the hill.

The identity of the man who wanted to know if the college furnished carpets in the dormitories has been discovered—E.
Breitenhire.

Being broke, disappointed in love, short on classes, and on the turn generally, we beg to announce that we will
not contribute to the Davidsonian again until next fall.

Having tried our hand, or rather our pen, at poetry and not having (as yet) gotten the hook, we offer
for your consideration a one-act tragedy:
(Enter, Poteat with cigarette).
“Anybody gotta light?”
Fresh Dew (pointing to electric bulb) “There's one.”
See “Infirmary Notes” for further particulars.

WE WANT 400 MEN NEXT YEAR.

Our Contemporaries

Technique: Tech has recently finished a boxing tournament in which some lively matches were held. The tennis sharks are all
battling for the championship.

Cadet: The V. M. I. track leaves on its first trip of the year. The “Keydets” have recently heard Ted
Sullivan on the national game. Five pool tables have been bought by the Athletic Association.

The Tech: The Sophs won in the inter-class track meet at Boston Tech. An Acro Society has been organized with
all students eligible.

Lawrentian: Lawrence College recently won over Cornell in a hard debate. The concert by the Glee Club at Lawrence was
well attended.

Ring Tum Phi: The Generals have won eight straight in baseball. Dr. Linzle’s address on his experience overseas with the
“Y” was enjoyed very much by the students.

Gamecock: South Carolina loses the first two games to Wofford and Furman by the scores 1-0 and 3-1. The members
of the debating team for 1919 have been chosen.

Guilfordian: Guilford has hard luck and loses to Elon 7-5, and to Trinity 12-2.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS WASHINGTON & LEE
(Continued from page 1)

to suit himself, whereas when private owners called for these reforms they were not granted. Dr. Arbuckle was somewhat nervous
as it was his duty to open the sealed envelopes which contained the decision of the judges. The decision was
in favor of Davidson.

OUR “Y” SECRETARY MR. “BOB” MILES
(Continued from page 1)Let it be known, in conclusion, that he was born and raised in Richmond, Va., and went
to Richmond College in 1907, after an industrious boyhood. The following year he enacted the scene as quoted in the
opening lines of this sketch. “Oh, what is so rare as a day in June?” We vote for boarding-house steak.

R. T. L. Liston visited in Watts last week and was rewarded by a “man-made” cloudburst on his person.

C. H. Long yelled for the Freshman in the clan baseball games. We, with the Irishman, may add, “Every man
for his own country.”

A. D. McArn meets all the trains these days. He has not announced that he does this in order that
he may make no mistake in purchasing his ticket and boarding the train when he leaves after commencement, but we
try to give our readers all the news.

Ox Harrel’s Declaration of Independence: “We reserved the liberty to break jail whenever we can, don’t we, doctor?”

“Do you always stutter like that?” asked the doctor examining the recruit. “N-no, sir,” was the reply. “Only w-when I
t-t-talk.”

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
RICHMOND, VA.

For information, address:
Z. K. JUSTICE, DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

After Vacation, What? To College, of Course!

You are familiar with Davidson's athletic record; know of the success of her debating teams; have heard of her beautiful
campus; have doubtless thought of the fact that “Pep” and unbounded college spirit, such as characterizes Davidson students, can live
only in wholesome campus conditions. You are acquainted with Davidson alumni in places of responsibility and trust in politics, in
business, and in religion.

BUT do you know about the 20 courses Davidson offers; the entrance requirements; the assignment of rooms; the cost of
a college education? A catalogue containing this and other information will be sent free. Address:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
Davidson, N. C.

W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.

BLUE RIDGE SCHOOL FOR BOYS
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

A select home school, on Accredited List, offering to a limited number of boys, from 9 to 20 years old,
a more intensive system of training than public schools can give. Ideally located in a healthful, invigorating climate, conducive to
study. Each boy's personality carefully studied and directed by an efficient teaching staff composed of virile, patriotic men with successful
teaching careers. A teacher for every seven or eight boys ensures individual attention in studies. Boys taught HOW TO STUDY.
Military drill, boy-scout activities, and all branches of athletics directed and supervised by able instructors. High moral tone; homelike, cultured
environments, parental discipline. Total charges for session, Sept. 17 to June 6, $480. Summer Term, July 1 to Aug. 26.
For catalogue, address:

J. R. SANDIFER, Headmaster,
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

If you want the best pipe that can be made, you can get it in a WDC—up to $6. If
you want the best genuine French Briar that as little as 75 cents will buy, you can get it in
a WDC. American made, in all sizes and styles, and sold at the best shops. No man ever had a
better pipe than this one. Carefully selected genuine French Briar, a sterling ring and vulcanite bit, hand-fitted and finished by
an expert.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer
