THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

THE PROSPEROUS LOOKING RANCHMAN.

Visitors at the Cheyenne "Frontier Days" last week were particularly struck with the fine appearance of a tall, broad-shouldered, splendidly-set-up man who was dressed in 'chaps,' a broad-brimmed Stetson, high-heeled boots and who otherwise looked the part of the wealthy cattleman down to the last details.

"There," remarked many an easterner, "is your typical western cowman—a fair sample of the 'old west' that is vanishing so fast. I'll bet he can write his check for at least a million dollars, and that he owns more cattle than Armour & Co. could slaughter in a whole day."

The impressive stranger mingled ceaselessly with cowpunchers and ranchmen and everywhere he went was the object of admiring glances. His strong, heavily-tanned face attracted comment from both men and women.

On the last day of the show a prosperous looking man and his wife approached the stalwart person in the ranchman's garb and said: "Excuse me, sir. I'm from New York. My wife and I have been admiring you for two days, and we just want to shake hands with a real cowboy—we believe you are the most typical westerner we have ever seen."

The man in the broad-brimmed hat and the "chaps" was courteous and affable. "Where is your ranch?" inquired the New Yorker.

"Oh—down in Colorado," replied the other, casually, "down in Estes Park."

A few minutes later the New Yorker met a man who knew the tall stranger in the cowpuncher's garb. He inquired about the ranchman.

"Ranchman?" smiled the informer. "Well—he does own enough land to make a ranch. But it’s mostly cottage sites down here adjoining the Rocky Mountain National Park. That's the Rev. John Timothy Stone, pastor of Fourth Presbyterian church of Chicago."

"Are you beating the Fresh" (meaning in the amount of cotton picked?) asked a visitor of Ben Dunlap as the youth looked up from his row of cotton.

"No'um," he answered. "There's not any of them out here to beat."

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

Attention, College Boys!
A new line of Stetson, No-Name, Vanity and Belk Hats at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00 and $7.00.
College boys' skirt model suits, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50.
New Neckwear at 50c, $1.00 and $1.50.
Silk Half-Hose in all colors at 59c, 85c and 90c.

Will You Spend 50c on Rat-Snap to Save $100?
One 50c pkg. can kill 50 rats. The average rat will rob you of $10 a year in feed, chicks and property destruction. RAT-SNAP is deadly to rats. Cremates after killing, leaves no smell. Comes in cakes. Rats will pass up meat, grain, cheese to feast on RAT-SNAP. Three sizes, 25c, 50c, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hdw. Co. and White Drug Store.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

HIS GREATEST YEAR'S WORK.

It had been a dull year in the church. The elders said to the old pastor: "We love you, pastor, but don’t you think you had better resign? There hasn't been a convert this year."

"Yes," he replied; "it has been a dull year—sadly dull to me. Yet I mind me that one did come, wee Bobby Moffat. But he is so wee a bairn that I suppose it is not right to count him."

A few years later Bobby came to the pastor and said, "Pastor, do you think that I could ever learn to preach? I feel within here something that tells me that I ought to. If I could just lead souls to Christ, that would be happiness to me."

The pastor answered, "Well, Bobby, you might; who knows? At least you can try!" He did try, and years later when Robert Moffat came back from his wonderful work in Africa, the King of England rose and uncovered in his presence, and the British Parliament stood as a mark of respect.

The humble old preacher, who had but one convert, and who was so discouraged, is dead and forgotten, and yet that was the greatest year's work he ever did—and few have equaled it.—Young People's Weekly.

PLAY TENNIS WITH SPALDING TENNIS EQUIPMENT
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc.
Full equipment for men and women, including tennis training. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

Judging from some recent remarks the French had no monopoly on their watchword of Verdun.

On account of extensive lab work, Jim Witherspoon announces that he has just finished moving his bed to the attic of the Chemistry laboratory.

A certain Fresh informs those back home that he drills each day with a 40-pound pack and attends five classes each diem during his spare time. Must want a dip in one year.

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.

The question which men have been figuring on for 30 days of how to get a uniform without a rifle has been solved. Join the band.

No man gets all he wants but many men want a lot less than they get.

See me for your feeds.catalogue to the nth degree, “The water there is running all the time.”

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE

The great American pest: “The tell everybody else but her kind of liver.”

Assistant Professor: “Mr. Hawkins, how would you ascertain the weight of a mile of earth?”
Mr. Hawkins: “I don’t exactly know, doctor, but it can be done. You would weigh the world first, wouldn't you?”

J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
221 W. Trade St.
Phone 3486

Dear Mr. Peanut Parcher:
I am a little Freshman 17 years old. Also, my girl won't write to me. What must I do?

Dear Little Freshman, 18 years old:
Get another girl. That's what we do in cases of that kind.

As soon as we can secure some Wildcat mining stocks, we may open up an investment bureau and tell you what to buy. Until then, let us recommend government bonds.

The “Constitution” of To-day—Electrically Propelled

The U.S.S. “New Mexico,” the first battleship of any nation to be electrically propelled, not only develops the maximum power and, with electrical control, has greater flexibility of maneuver, which is a distinct naval advantage, but also gives greater economy. At 10 knots, her normal cruising speed, she will steam on less fuel than the best turbine-driven ship that preceded her.

The electric generating plant, totaling 28,000 horsepower, and the propulsion equipment of the great super-dreadnaught were built by the General Electric Company. Their operation has demonstrated the superiority of electric propulsion over old-time methods and a wider application of this principle in the merchant marine is fast making progress. As a result, scarcely a home today need be without the benefits of General Electric products and service.

An illustrated booklet describing the “New Mexico,” entitled, “The Electric Ship,” will be sent upon request. General Electric Company, Desk 44, Schenectady, New York.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N.Y.

Fresh Gunn: “Can't I come to your feed; I'm an officer in the Eu. Fresh Society.”
Fresh Member: “What office?”
Gunn: “I am a debater.”

In these later times, it seems to be a case of “Strike while the blood is hot.” Chink Wilkins claims the honor of being the champion water thrower in the college. The shots on which his claims rest were made from the third floor to the first floor of Georgia and Rumple. Sounds like the days when Leighton McKeithen was in his prime.

The following letter was submitted in a contest on the night of initiation into the Phi. Society:

Dearest Darling:
I take my pen in hand to let you know that I am not living where I did live but am living where I moved. I just want to tell you that I love you better than all the other girls in the world and Mars, too. I feel a pitty-patty sensation behind me when I write to you. Mother is making sausage today and all the neighbors are looking for their dogs. Dearest, if you love me, say so; if you don’t love me, say so; and if you love me and don’t want to say so, just squeeze my hand. Give me your heart, Darling, and all the world will be mine. I love you better than a pig loves slop. I ask and beseech you, Darling, to give me your love. Some day I'll come to see you and take you to the store and buy you some candy. Give my love to your Ma, your Pa, and the bulldog.

For neatness and durability send your shoes to the Shoe Fixery, Charlotte, N.C.

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents
Shoe Repairing
30 and 36 Chambers

ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY PRINTING CO.
Statesville, N.C.