The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

LOOKS GOOD, DOESN'T IT?
WHAT? THE DAVIDSONIAN, OF COURSE

If you should ask what makes it so large, so attractive and so everlastingly important, we could not give you
all the reasons in this small space, but "there’s a reason." Kindly study the advertisements in this issue, and the
people that are responsible for them. We do not ask that you refrain from buying from a person because his
name is not in the Davidsonian—probably he is trying to get in now—but we do insist that you trade with
our advertisers. Remember that they make the Davidsonian one of the greatest college weeklies in America.

"SEND ONE HOME"
Nuf ced

The Tate-Brown Company
11 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Young Men's Clothing, Hats, Furnishings and Shoes.
Knepp-Felt Hats, Bassalina Italian Hats, Manhattan and Star Shirts. Hanan, Florsheim and the French, Shriner and Urner Shoes.

TAILORING DEPARTMENT ON 2nd FLOOR

THE CHARLOTTE LAUNDRY
Oldest and best established laundry in the Carolinas, will again resume business on campus through its representatives, Cassell & McCaskill.
They are carrying one of the best dry-cleaning establishments and are in a position to give you the best of
service. Laundry will be called for and delivered the same week. Satisfaction guaranteed. Your patronage will be appreciated.

"OLDEST, LARGEST, BEST"
Cassell & McCaskill

VILLAGE ITEMS.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with its president, Mrs. W. R. Grey, at 4 p.m. on Friday. The club
has chosen for its year’s study Reconstruction Problems in the countries most affected by the war. The subject for this
week is Czecho-Slovakia, and Miss Cornelia Shaw will have the program.

The Civic Club held its first meeting for the fall on Tuesday, the 9th inst. Dr. J. Moore McConnell gave
an interesting and informative talk on matters relating to the Peace Treaty.

We are glad to extend a hearty greeting to the following old men who have returned to college:
L. P. Goud, ex-'19
R. E. McClure, ex-'19
C. Hunter, ex-'19
W. C. Neel, ex-'19
L. B. Nichols, ex-'19
S. M. Query, ex-'19
L. L. Wilson, ex-'19
C. W. Worth, ex-'19
K. A. Beaty, ex-'20
C. G. Brown, ex-'20
D. R. Freeman, ex-'20
A. D. King, ex-'20
T. M. Lacy, ex-'20
W. C. Smith, ex-'20
A. D. Bernhardt, ex-'22
L. P. Burney, ex-'21
R. R. Deavor, ex-'21
W. A. Foil, ex-'21
D. L. Mahood, ex-'21
B. W. Romefelt, ex-'21
R. L. McLeod, ex-'22
B. C. Patrick, ex-'22
T. Reid, ex-'22
W. W. Roberts, ex-'22
C. D. Sewell, ex-'22

DON'T WORRY—IT'S WELL STOCKED YET.

Owing to unsettled conditions last year, the commissary was not run, but we are back to normal conditions now and
the athletic association will run its commissary as in former years. Matthews and Wilson, T. H., have been appointed managers.
They will carry in stock all athletic goods, gym.suits, felt goods, college belts, tennis shoes, etc., etc. The students are
reminded that the above goods are sold only by the commissary, according to a ruling of the athletic association some
years ago. Students will not be allowed to peddle these goods from room to room. A complete stock of goods
has been ordered but owing to congested express conditions it has not all arrived yet, but the managers are expecting
to have a complete line within a few days.

And again we return to Davidson and find it the same peaceful, congenial place. Our very beautiful campus is always
admired by everyone that visits Davidson as well as by ourselves daily because of its large shady trees and the
birds that inhabit their boughs, but especially are the spacious lawns admired while here, and longed for when we are
away. Now that we have a school of some 425, it has been seen fit that we use, or evidently
our tennis courts are required for additional campus lawns or grass plots for the herbivorous animals of the community. Whether
or not either of these assumptions are correct it is a sad fact that the grass is covering the upper
six courts and that the lower six are not only covered with grass but have the ditches and bayonet dummies
still thereon. From this chaotic scene we turn our eyes northward and look at the beautifully “dish-shaped” pair of courts
at the east of Chambers. Quite true it is that we have the best possible backstops for these two and
also it is true that in years past they were flat or approximately so—but the rains of the past years
have by the process of erosion washed in the banks on either side until the alleys are on an incline
of some 25 degrees at places. Is it not possible that our tennis facilities be raised from this pitiful state?
Is there any reason why 52 men cannot have the tennis privileges in the proper way, instead of eight, on
the two dish-shaped courts, the other 46 being denied? Shall we still go on without facilities as the man who
builds a beautiful home of the finest woods but gives it no protection from the weather, and lets it fall
into decay and ruin?

E PLURIBUS UNUM.

The Mecca of Discriminating Music Lovers

5 ACTS OF KEITH VAUDEVILLE
Program Changed Twice a Week
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

EXCLUSIVE MOTION PICTURES

FRANK DAE AND The University Trio
MARGARET NEVILLE in “A Bit of Harmony”
Harmon and Francis in Any Couple, Do You Know Them?
Singing Comedy Girls Jean and Arthur Keeley
ADRS and COMPANY A New Artistic Novelty in Fur and Sporting Goods Store

Advance Seat Sale—Phone for Reservation
B. F. Keith Vaudeville—Best by Test

OUR FALL SHOWING of clothes for young men embodies every essential which constitutes clothing quality
Knox and Stetson Hats, Edwin Clapp Shoes, Manhattan Shirts, etc.
Mail orders have our prompt attention.

MELLON’S
8-10 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

True Office Companions
Standard and National Desks. Taylor and Sykes Chairs. Art Metal Files and Light Weight Safes. Shaw-Walker Files and Filing Systems.
“A Successful Looking Office is a Real Business Asset”
We have the equipment to make your office look successful

Queen City Printing Company
14 and 16 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.
