Basketball Begins

JAV.JSONIAN

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 13, 1919. No. 11

Kappa Alpha Wins Belk Fraternity Cup With Highest Average On Record

Announcement has been made that the Kappa Alpha fraternity has been awarded the Belk cup for the highest scholarship last year. The averages as a whole were unusually high and perhaps better than at any time in recent years.

Averages:
Kappa Alpha .................. 93.06
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........ 85.60
Beta Theta Pi .................. 79.05
Pi Kappa Alpha ............... 78.2
Kappa Sigma .................. 77.90

Winston to be Scene of Davidson-North Carolina Football Classic

Carolina’s Defeat by V. M. I. Has Instilled New Hope in Coach Crayton’s Charges

The climax of Davidson’s football schedule will occur Saturday when the Red and Black warriors meet the University of N. C. in Winston-Salem. The Wildcats will be out to prove that last year's victory was no fluke, while on the other hand the Blue and White will put its strongest line-up into the play to wrest victory from Coach Crayton’s lads. Prospects point to a scrappy and hard-fought game. Davidson will be facing heavier odds, but that is such an accustomed thing now that odds are no terror for the husky gridiron gladiators from D.C.

Up until Saturday, the odds were overwhelmingly in favor of the University. Coach Campbell's aggregation won out over N. C. State, while in turn the Raleigh lads trounced Davidson 36 to 6. This would give the University undisputed advantage over Davidson. But upon looking at the dope from another standpoint, we find that V. M. I. snowed the Chapel Hill team under last week 29 to 7 on the latter’s own field, while Davidson held the flying Cadets to a scant 14 to 7 victory. This would go to prove that Davidson has more than a fighting chance against the heavier and possibly more experienced eleven from Chapel Hill. With even breaks, it is a toss-up as to the winner.

The line-up to be used against Carolina on Saturday is uncertain. Davidson was fortunate to survive the battle royal with N. C. State, with no men on the permanent injury list. Spann, however, suffered a fractured nose, due to a high tackle made on him during the final period, but it is unlikely that this will keep the plucky Red and Black quarter out of the fray. Jack Black was forced to retire on account of a twisted ankle and will probably be out of the game for the remainder of the season. Murray, the midget Demon, was knocked completely out Saturday, with a severe kick on the forehead, but came around all O. K. in a couple of hours. The line will probably be the same as that used against N. C. State.

Dr. Johnson’s Sermons Invigorate the Whole Student Body

Large Crowds Present at All Services—Meetings a Great Success

The evangelistic services held by Dr. A. S. Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, made an impression on the Davidson student body which will not be forgotten soon. Starting with Tuesday night, Shearer hall was filled morning and night for three days by a percentage of the student body which left no doubt as to the force and personality of the speaker. He made a powerful appeal to the Christian manhood of the students, showing them the importance of active, rigid obedience to the high moral standards of Christianity. He showed that it was by the strength of Christ only that one is able to fight successfully the temptations that are continually besetting him. Dr. Johnson was helped in his services by Mr. R. E. Mell, the Y. M. C. A. secretary at Rock Hill, S. C., who was an excellent leader in the song services. Mr. Mell is an enthusiastic member of the Pocket Testament League, and as a result of his efforts a large number of the students joined the league.

In his opening service Tuesday night, Dr. Johnson spoke on Regeneration. Briefly, it was shown that not church membership, not morality, not religion in the broad sense necessarily indicated a regenerated heart. The mystery of conversion, the new birth—inexplicable to the human mind—is a fact that can be substantiated by too much testimony and the witness of too many transformed and transfigured lives to be really doubted or questioned by honest minds. The new birth is necessary if one would enter the kingdom of God. The address was delivered with fervor and force out of the ordinary and was replete with incidents and illustrations, many of them coming out of the personal observation or experience of the speaker.

On Wednesday, Dr. Johnson spoke on the prodigal son, his willful breaking away from all restraint in the exercise of his sovereign power of choice, his coming again to himself and return to his father. The last thought to be developed was that God can and will make one who desires to be so made victorious in his turning away from a sinful life and in his effort to build up a strong character in righteousness and truth. The speaker argued cogently and effectively in showing that while the prodigal may return, there is no reason why any boy should ever leave the path of virtue and wander for a while in the filth and mire of sin.

Wildcats Unable to Withstand Fearful Onslaught of Heavy N. C. State Team, Losing 36 to 6

Although Outweighed Thirty Pounds to the Man, the Presbyterians Fought Pluckily All the Way Through—Johnson, Douglas and Romefelt Stars for Davidson—Gurley and Faucett Did Stellar Work for the Aggies

Fighting like the fierce quadrupeds for whom they are named, the Wildcats went down in defeat before the steamroller of State College by a score of 36 to 6. Although handicapped by nearly 30 pounds difference in weight, the Presbyterians were in the game with all they had and gave their opponents a hard battle from start to finish. In fact, it was in the last quarter of the game that a series of brilliant forward passes netted them their only touchdown.

State scored their first touchdown early in the game, it being only eight minutes from the time they received the initial kick-off until Gurley ploughed across Davidson’s goal line. He added another three points in this period when he kicked a beautiful place kick from the 43-yard line. The Aggies scored again early in the second quarter, when after carrying the ball down the field by a series of line plunges and end runs, Gurley broke through for another touchdown.

McMaster and Hammett, star tackles on the Wildcat team, were in nearly every play on the defensive, making tackle after tackle. He seldom failed to make substantial gains when called upon. Pitts Douglas played an unusually fine game and too much credit cannot be given for his great work. Spann, although painfully injured in the first quarter, played the game through and cannot be given too much credit for his great work. It was his accurate passing in the last quarter which enabled the Wildcats to score. Douglas put up his usual game at end, while Romefelt, Brady, and Hammett did great work in the line. The whole team fought hard throughout the game, however, and it is hard to choose individual stars.slime of sin and uncleanness. The last service of the campaign, on Thursday night, was a powerful appeal for the necessity of belief in and acknowledgment of the Gospel of Christ. The text was Luke 16:31: “If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rise from the dead.” In the Bible is all the religious knowledge we need and probably all that we will ever get. A messenger from the dead could tell us no more than we already know. Men are no closer to God now than before the great war, and the still more devastating scourge of influenza that swept away the best and strongest. A man that is doing wrong now, expecting to change later, is treading a dangerous path. He may become hardened, or it may be too late when he tries to repent. God has sent His message of forgiveness. The one who has sinned and broken all the commandments, God is willing to forgive the sinner and cleanse his stained and soiled body. In conclusion, Dr. Johnson made an appeal for the necessity of belief in and acknowledgment of the Gospel of Christ.

For the rest of the period, the Wildcats kept the ball mostly in their possession, the whistle for the end of the half finding it their ball on State’s 27-yard line. At the beginning of the third period, Faucette, after receiving the kick-off, made a sensational run of 75 yards through the whole Davidson team for a touchdown. Davidson fought hard for the rest of the quarter, gaining mostly by end runs and forward passes, but were unable to prevent another touchdown by State, which came just at the close of the quarter. The Presbyterians came back strong in the final session. Fighting like demons, they completed pass after pass and carried the ball steadily up the field. It was Johnston who finally received a pass from Spann for 16 yards and a touchdown. State scored again in the last few minutes of play, when a succession of passes put the ball across Davidson’s goal line. For Davidson, Johnston put up a wonderful game, both on the offense and defense. His end runs and catching of forward passes were superb, while he starred. For State College, Gurley and Faucette were the outstanding stars. Their end runs and line plunges were irresistible, and they were largely responsible for the decisive victory of the Aggies.

The game by plays is as follows:

First Quarter, Davidson won the toss for the kick-off and chose to defend the south goal. McFadden fluked the kick. Johnson kicked off and Ripple received it on the State 39-yard line. Ripple fumbled the ball and Brady recovered it. Black failed to gain in a plunge through left tackle. Spann gained two yards around right end, Gurley making the tackle. The ball was now on State’s 26-yard line. Spann tried a forward pass and failed, Johnson missing the catch. The ball went over to State. Gurley carried the ball for a 15-yard gain, Johnson stopping him. State was penalized 15 yards for holding. Faucette ran 30 yards around right end. Murray made eight yards over left tackle, Davis stopping him. Pierson ploughed through for 14 yards and first down. Gurley now made five yards. Faucette made eight yards and first down, then Gurley made 10. Murray bucked the line for a yard gain. Faucette circled the end for 11 yards and brought the ball to Davidson's nine-yard line.

(Continued on Page 5)

WATCH WE'UNS WIN IN WINSTON

R. O. T. C. Battalion Honors Charlotte With Splendid Parade

Four Companies With Sixteen Piece Band March Through Streets of the Queen City

After several months of training, several minutes of entraining and several seconds of detraining, the Wild Cat battalion arrived in the Hornets’ Nest on the last day of last week. The reception tendered the supporters of the Red and Black differed very materially from that accorded one General Cornwallis some one hundred and thirty-eight years before and their stay was far more pleasant than had been that of the Redcoat commander.

Going Down.

Assembly was sounded at 12:40 and the four companies fell in at their accustomed places along Dormitory Row. Led by the band, the command marched to the station, where the special train was in waiting. After a sufficient amount of shifting had been done to satisfy the officials in charge of the extra, the battalion boarded the train. The civilian students found traveling accommodations in the foremost coach, where the crowd was entertained by a performance put on by Bill Miley & Co. Company D, in the next car, was led in song and story by Sergeant Liston, of the first platoon of that organization. Lieutenant Doubles was chief of the execution of Davidson yells and songs in Company C. Nothing can be learned of the activities of the B delegation on their way down, but with Price and Brice on the roster, it may be safely assumed that the trip was not made in gloomy silence. The first initial outfit spent the fifty-five minutes in singing, yelling and raising thunder, according to an eye-witness. At 1:58 the train pulled into the Queen City and the men disembarked.

The Parade.

The companies fell in and began to move up Trade street in column of platoons. The 2:58, which was just leaving the county seat, intercepted the march of Company D and for a few seconds cut it off from the base of operations. The battalion was headed by Cadet Major W. M. Hall, followed by Adjutant J. R. Boulware. A Company was commanded by Sergeant A. M. Mitchell; B by Lieutenant S. J. Davis; Company C by Lieutenant W. L. Roddey; and Company D by Captain R. L. Rogers. A halt was called at First Presbyterian Church, while a photograph of the unit was made. At the Selwyn Hotel the battalion moved into column of squads and turned down South Tryon in this formation. It seemed as if every man realized that it was the time for him to do his best—and then some.

(Continued on page 6)

CALENDAR.

Thursday, 4:30—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Thursday night—Bible class leaders’ meeting.
Friday night—Movies, Mary Pickford in “Caprice.”
Friday, 4:30—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Saturday—Football, Davidson vs. University of N. C., at Winston-Salem.
Sunday morning, 10—Bible classes, Chapter VIII.
Sunday night 6:10—“Y” meeting.
Monday night—Freshman societies.
Tuesday, 4:30—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Wednesday—Seniors vs. Fresh.