The DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1919

Literary Societies Favor Peace League
Their Decision Coincides With That of Peace Conference.

Program Saturday Night, Feb. 1.
Query: "Resolved, That the Allies should actively intervene in Russia."

Philanthropic— (Class No. 2)
Affirmative: 
Long, Stogner
Negative: 
Brown, Freeman
Wool, Keith
Orations: 
McKeithen, J. H., Hill, Foster, Campbell.
Extemporaneous Debate: 
Stone, Roberts.

Eumenean:
Affirmative: 
McCaskill, J.C., Cunningham, C. E.
Negative: 
Ormond, A.P., Doubles
Booth, Phillips
McPheeters, Cornelson
Orations: 
Cunningham, R. B., Robson, C. B., Bitzer, McFadden.

Marshals Elected in Eumenean.
A very interesting regular program was rendered at the first regular meeting of the Eu Society. The new men looked on with both amazement and admiration to the expounding of great truths by the speakers of the hour. The program was as follows: 
(1) W. B. Sullivan, after a very flowery introduction, centered his thoughts on the oration "Checkers"; 
(2) O. M. Dugger gave a very interesting declaration taken from President Wilson's speech at the opening of the Peace Conference; 
(3) Debate—Resolved, "That the league of nations as proposed by President Wilson should be adopted." 
The affirmative was upheld by Mitchell, J. P. Price, and Cummings. Their points were: 
(a) The league of nations is a part of the process of evolution; 
(b) That it is the only possible league; 
(c) That it is practicable. 
The negative was defended by Woods, R. R. Craig, and Hiezir. Their points were: 
(a) The league of nations is impracticable; 
(b) That it is unsound in principle; 
(c) It would cause a financial strain on the world. 
The decisions of the committee were in favor of the affirmative, while the members of the Hall supported the negative. The following men were elected to act as marshals: Chief Marshal, Emery Flynn; Marshals, S. H. Askew, E. A. Turner, S. T. McCloy, C. B. Robson.

Phi Meeting Interesting.
The first meeting of the Phi this spring was well attended and proved to be very interesting and instructive to both old and new members. J. D. Sample and W. T. Dunlap, Jr., argued for the proposed League of Nations, while T. R. Alexander and H. C. Hamilton strove to prove the fallacy of such a plan. The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. Morrison, after a most eloquent introduction, gave a declamation, while T. C. Stone amused the Hall with an original oration, quite original in fact. Calhoun and Spense matched their forensic talents and abilities in an extemporaneous debate. The former was declared the winner, much to the mortification of his rival. The critic called attention to the fact that the carpet had been tracked with smut owing to a heater pipe that needs repairing. A committee was appointed to see that the pipe be fixed before the next meeting. Someone mentioned that the service flag needed attention, as there has been no work done on it since Mr. McClure left. A committee was appointed to attend to this matter. The election of marshals will be held next Saturday night. All men who have recently joined the society are requested to see the treasurer this week and settle with him. All initiation fees are due within two weeks after initiation.

When Will It Happen?
Dates For Contest Decided By Debating Council.
At a recent meeting of the Debating Council, a schedule of the Literary Societies’ spring events was mapped out. Unless something intervenes, the contests will be held on the following dates:
February 3—Fresh-Soph Declamation preliminaries.
February 10—Fresh-Soph Declamation finals.
March 17—Fresh-Soph Debating preliminaries.
March 31—Fresh-Soph Debating finals.
April 7—Junior-Senior Debating preliminaries.
April 28—Junior-Senior Debate finals.
The time for the preliminaries for the intercollegiate debate has not been set so far but will be as soon as the colleges to be debated are heard from. As the majority of the men in both societies are Freshmen, it is expected that the Fresh-Soph contests will be largely entered, as the Sophomores have their last chance to take off this medal.

GLEE CLUB MOBILIZES.
The prospects for a successful Glee Club at Davidson this spring seem unusually bright. With the instrumental mandolin club back, the instrumental part of the program, at least, will be well cared for. The main trouble so far is the lack of good soloists. However, with B. E. Shields and "Buck" of last year's club, as a nucleus around which to form new material, it is believed that this difficulty can be overcome. The first practice was to have been held on Monday night, but was postponed on account of the entertainment at the "Y." There will be a practice every night forthe rest of this week and all students who sing at all are urged to come out and help make things go.

WHERE TO TRADE IN CHARLOTTE.

Below is a list of firms in Charlotte that have advertised in “Quips and Cranks.” Boys, these are the firms that are helping to make the Annual a success, and when you are in Charlotte do not forget to go around to see them.

Ed. Mellon Co., Clothiers.
Claude Brown, Inc., Clothiers.
Parker-Gardner Co., Furniture.
Erskine R. Smith Co., Furniture.
Keith’s Vaudeville.
Chas. M. Stieff, Inc., Pianos.
Charlotte Transfer Co.
Stonewall Hotel.
F. H. Andrews, Pianos.
Belk Bros., Clothiers.
Scholtz, The Florist.
Tryon Drug Co.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co.
Ben-Vonde Co., Cleaners.
Yorke and Rogers, Clothiers.
New York Cafe.
Charlotte Hardware Co.
The Piedmont Hotel.
The New Central Hotel.
The Astor Lunch.
Crowell Clothing Co., Statesville, N. C.
M. Giffert, Bus. Mgr.

Debating

With Messrs. Tremain and Ormond as pianists and the entire nucleus rah Withers.

Fourth Grade: Vance Dearman, Louise Erwin, William Howard Jetton, Margaret Johnston, Audrey Messick, Mildred Mooney, Rufus Reid.
Fifth Grade: Sidney Proctor.
Sixth Grade: Howard Arbuckle, Sarah Lothery, Thomas Lothery.
Seventh Grade: Evelyn Potts, Sophia Richards.
Eighth Grade: Mock.
Ninth Grade:
Tenth Grade: Sarah Hamilton, Lera Hobbs, Sue Martha Hamilton, Annie Lois Barnette.

PARKER FUND TO BE RAISED THIS SPRING

Many new men on the campus do not know that the Davidson student body supports Rev. Wm. P.L. Parker, of Pyengyang, Korea. Owing to the S.A.T.C. last fall, the Parker Fund was neglected, but this does not mean that he has forgotten us, or that our privilege of supporting him has been withdrawn. The Davidson student body has always sent Mr. Parker his full salary every year. It must not fall down on its duty when the tremendously increased cost of living in the Far East makes the missionary's salary more insufficient than ever before. Mr. Parker is doing a great work in Korea. He was one of the first honor men of his class here at Davidson and was a leader in campus life. The same winning personality and devotion to duty that marked his course here in college has followed him in Korea. You will soon be asked to subscribe to the Parker Fund. Do your share.

POLITY CLUB IS BACK ON THE JOB

On last Saturday morning the Davidson Polity Club met and unanimously elected J. J. Love as secretary to take the place of M. A. Siske, who was elected last year but failed to return. Emery Flinn is the president for this year, and E.G. Lilly vice-president. The Davidson Polity Club is a branch of the society known as the International Polity Club. Its object is to create interest in the study of international affairs and questions, especially in so far as they concern America. Owing to the universal interest in the Peace Conference and the proposed League of Nations it is expected that the programs and discussions this spring will be unusually instructive and interesting.

CHAMBERS LEADS.

The Bible classes still further increased their attendance last Sunday. Chambers led in the total with 47 present, 22 in the North Wing and 25 in the South Wing. Georgia showed a substantial increase with 23 members present. Watts had 26 and Rumple turned out 37 of her number. Much interest is being shown and the discussion is lively.

DOINGS IN DAVIDSON.

Mrs. Ellenwood and daughter are expected to arrive the first of February and will occupy their home on North Main street for the rest of the winter.

Misses Lizzie and Mary Young are leaving this week for Florida, where they will visit friends.

Mrs. Ida Davis spent last week with Mrs. Paisley.

Mr. Miles was a visitor at Westminster School last week.

Mrs. Pennington and little daughter spent the day with Professor and Mrs. Wood last week.

The friends of Dr. Robert H. Lafferty will be sorry to hear that he and his two sons are ill with the influenza in their home in Charlotte.

Mr. and Mrs. Willis P. Johnston of Mooresville spent several days with Mrs. Wooten last week.

The father of Mr. Miles was in town Monday to see his son. Mr. Miles has been at Blue Ridge taking a Y.M.C.A. course.

SIGMA UPSILON INITIATES.

The following men were initiated into the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon last Thursday: J. H. Miller, Jr., N.Y. Pharr, R. C. Garth, and A.D. McArn. The initiation was enjoyed by all present. Officers were then elected and the topic for discussion at the next meeting was selected. The Blue Pencil Club is an organization which is primarily intended to promote all forms of literary work at Davidson. Its members are chosen from the leaders in the literary activities of the college. The chapter now has eleven members: Of the Faculty, Dr. J. M. McConnell and Dr. M.L. Sentelle; students, E.G. Lilly, J. J. Love, B.A. Woods, D. M. Chalmers, Kimery Flinn, J. H. Miller, Jr., N.Y. Pharr, R.C. Garth, and A.D. McArn.

Skett’s Old Place

A Full Line Of
Cigars, Cigarettes
Candy
Chewing Gum
Cold Drinks
Homemade Cakes
Candies and Sandwiches

Geo. H. Beall, Jr.