The DAVIDSONIAN, April 16, 1919

WILDCATS LOSE INITIAL GAME
(Continued from page 1)

Score of inning: Elon, 3; Davidson, 0.

Third Inning.
Elon—Johnson safe at first on slow throw by Ratchford. Johnson stole second. King fanned. Marlette singled to right and Johnson
was out at plate. Brown out Ratchford to Richards.
Davidson—Boswell out Sides to Marlette. Spann out Sides to Marlette. Murrey out Sides to Marlette.
Score of inning: Elon 0; Davidson, 0.

Fourth Inning.
Elon—Sides out Ratchford to Richards. Atkinson out Clarke to Richards. Allen fanned.
Davidson—Ratchford hit a line drive to Johnson for the first out. Johnson out Sides to Marlette. Richards walks. Clarke hit
to Johnson who threw Richards out at second on a fielder’s choice.
Score of inning: Elon, 0; Davidson, 0.

Batteries: For Elon, Sides and King. For Davidson, Clarke and Johnson.

DR. WHALING DELIVERS LECTURE.
(Continued from page 1)

...which did so much to instill in the man the ideals of his noble ancestry. Then upon graduation from Princeton
he went to the University of Virginia and to Johns Hopkins for further pursuance of the work to which he
seemed most interested and best adapted. Then in the third place, Dr. Whaling spoke of the reaction of his training
and environment. Even as a student of 17 here at Davidson, Woodrow Wilson had his singular ideals and his character
was singularly formed. He believed and was always anxious to stand up for his belief, that a man could be
as true a Christian and do as noble a work for God on earth in public and civil life as
well as in the Church alone. He was recognized on the campus, says Dr. Whaling, as the political leader. At
the end of his days of training Wilson hung out his shingle in Atlanta, where he practiced law for almost
one year, with a firm name of Wilson-Renick. Dissatisfied with this, realizing that he was not intended for the legal
profession, he became a professor in a female college, which the speaker referred to as a glorious work, but not
in Woodrow Wilson's line. He found himself, however, as professor of political science in Princeton University. Here it was not
a question of how many men would be in the class, but rather how would the lecture room accommodate those
anxious to attend. From here, Dr. Whaling tells us, Wilson was “kicked” to the Governorship of New Jersey, to the
Presidency of the United States, and now he stands as supreme dictator of international politics. This is just the reaction
of the training of the youth of 17 here at Davidson College. Dr. Whaling terms his last force in action
as Divine dynamic. No man ever moved the world and held the destinies of nations in his grasp, who did
not realize himself as one supported and sustained by the Supreme Architect. So then, does our President realize this fact,
just as the one who said, “I am what I am by the grace of God.” The speaker refers to
him as one of the great...

Fifth Inning.
Elon—Murphy fanned. Simpson fanned. Johnson fanned.
Davidson—Cassell walked. Miley out on a sacrifice, Cassell taking second. Cassell went to third on a passed ball. Boswell out,
bunting foul on last strike. Spann fanned.
Score of inning: Elon 0; Davidson, 0.

Sixth Inning.
Elon—King fanned. Marlette reached first on hot drive to Clarke and went to second when Richards missed Cassell's low throw
to second. Brown fanned. Sides singled to left, King taking third. Atkinson fanned.
Davidson—Murrey out Sides to Marlette. Ratchford fanned. Johnson out on a line drive to Simpson.
Score of inning: Elon, 0; Davidson, 0.

Seventh Inning.
Elon—Allen fanned. Murphy fanned. Simpson flew out to Cassell.
Davidson—Richards out Murphy to Marlette. Clarke out Johnson to Marlette. Cassell tripled to left field. Miley out Sides to Marlette.
Score of inning: Elon, 0; Davidson, 0.

Eighth Inning.
Elon—Johnson out Ratchford to Richards. King fanned. Marlette flew out to Boswell.
Davidson—Boswell fanned. Spann walked. Murrey hit to Atkinson. Spann out at second. Murrey safe at first. Ratchford flew out to
left.
Score of inning: Elon, 0; Davidson, 0.

Ninth Inning.
Elon—Brown out Ratchford to Richards. Sides safe at first on a throw from short. Atkinson fanned.

Summary: Three-base hit, Johnson, Marlette, Brown, Cassell. Double play, Murphy to Johnson to Marlette. Struck out by Sides, seven; by
Clarke, seventeen. Base on balls: off Sides 3; off Clarke 2. Sacrifice hits, Miley. Passed balls, King 2. Umpire, Mr.
Miles.

Score by innings:
Elon ..... ... 030 000 000—3 5 2
Davidson .. ..100 000 000—1 2 4

Total .... .... 29 2 1 5 27 3Allen fanned. Davidson—Johnson fanned. Richards safe on Atkinson’s error of an infield
fly. Clarke hit to short. Richards out second and Clarke at first on a double play, Murphy to Johnson to
Marlette. Score of inning: Elon, 0; Davidson, 0.

Box Score:

Elon AB H R A PO E
Allen, l.f. .......... 3 0 0 0 1 0
Murphy, s.s. ....... 3 0 0 3 1 0
Simpson, c.f. ...... 4 0 0 0 1 0
Johnson, 2b. ...... 4 0 0 3 4 0
King, c. ........... 3 0 1 0 8 1
Marlette, 1b. ...... 4 2 1 0 18 0
Brown, r.f. ........ 4 1 1 0 0 0
Sides, p. .......... 4 1 0 6 0 0
Atkinson, 3b. ...... 4 1 0 1 0 1
Total ............ 33 5 3 13 27 2

Davidson AB H R A PO E
Spann, c.f. ........ 3 0 0 0 0 0
Murrey, l.f. ........ 4 0 1 0 0 0
Ratchford, 2b. ..... 4 0 0 4 1 0
C. Johnson, c. ..... 4 1 0 0 18 0
Richards, 1b. ...... 3 1 0 0 0 0

In summarizing, Dr. Whaling said that Woodrow Wilson believed in four things: First, he believes in God, the Supreme Architect
of the ages; next he believes that he has been led and selected by God, and prepared by four things,
by heredity, by training, by the reaction of environment and training, and by this divine calling; then he believes in
the Bible as his guide and teacher; and lastly he believes that God still lives to guide and direct men,
and to rally them to noble work for extending His kingdom on earth. The most fortunate thing in the history
of the ages is that a man with such lofty ideals and noble assets has been chosen to sit as
champion of the cause of Christ in the world.

GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB TO BE ORGANIZED
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson men have as much, or more, loyalty and love for their college than any college men. There is not
a true Davidson man who is not willing and anxious to do something to help his Alma Mater. The trouble
is he does not know exactly what to do and suffers from a lack of coordination with the others in
his efforts. Now if a Greater Davidson Club is formed you will have others to help you and aid you
in your plans. The word “Greater” is used to mean more than greater in size. It means greater in that
you will help make it nearer the ideal college. It means greater in that it will have a greater influence
and scope of work; do more effective work than ever; better spirit will exist on the campus, with a development
of greater loyalty and respect for the college and a larger student body. The Davidsonian stands for a “Greater Davidson,”
and so does every loyal son of Davidson. We are proud of her, of what she has done in the
past, of what she is now and is doing, and it is the purpose of the “Greater Davidson Club” to
make us even prouder of what she will be in the future because she will be greater and her achievements
will be greater.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
E. N. BOOKER, Agt.

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

DOUBLES CHAMPIONSHIP TO HALL AND SPENCE
(Continued from page 1)

Cunningham and Cunningham defeated McKeldin and Miller in the semifinals 6-2, 6-4, while Hall and Spence defeated Lilly and McPhetters
6-3, 2-6, 6-3. In the finals Hall and Spence defeated Cunningham and Cunningham in three straight fast sets 6-4, 6-4,
6-3.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
Dunlap Hats
E. & W. Metric Shirts
Hirsh Wickwire & Brandegee Kincaid Clothing
Charlotte, N. C.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Bought and Sold Farm Produce

Unlimited Selection in Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the
one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices,
you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for
your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
