The DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1919

MARSHAL FOCH.

An innocent little controversy has arisen in certain small circles about the ecclesiastical connection of Field Marshal Foch. Some Roman Catholic papers claim him as a member of their church and rather warmly resent any hint to the contrary. Colonel Beattie, a chaplain in the Canadian Overseas Forces, on his return from the front, recently stated in an address before the Canadian Club, Vancouver, that Marshal Foch is an elder in the Presbyterian Church of France. We cannot vouch for the accuracy of this statement, but we do not think Colonel Beattie would make such a statement before a body composed of intelligent men of all denominations without knowing whereof he was speaking. We do not think the church connection of Marshal Foch is a matter to grow warm over. One thing is certain, Protestant or Roman Catholic, the great French General is a deeply religious man and a devout and humble Christian, and that is more than saying that he is a Presbyterian or a Roman Catholic or a member of any other church. Protestants and Catholics alike may well claim Marshal Foch as a noble example of our common Christian faith. He is too big a man for sectarian limitations. He belongs to the great brotherhood of believers who are found in all the churches—Presbyterian Witness, Toronto, Canada.

Literary Societies

IN THE PHILANTHROPIC.

At the first meeting of the Phi Society several matters of importance were decided. For one thing the Junior Society was done away with and the new men will be initiated directly into the Senior Society. It will be of interest to those contemplating joining the society this spring to know that the initiation fee has been reduced from $5 to $3. This change was made for this year only, so you had better join at once. The Phi Society is glad to have so many of its old men return. President R. D. Hall and First Critic W. M. Currie are back in their old offices. The other officers for this term are: Vice-president, D. M. Chalmers; Treasurer, A. L. Foscue; First Supervisor, A. L. Currie; Second Supervisor, C. N. Morrison. The following men were elected to take the places of some who did not return: Secretary, J. W. Dunlap; Junior Member of Debating Council, A. L. Foscue; Janitor, C. N. Morrison. The committee for new members will visit the Freshmen this week. There are going to be several contests for the Freshmen and Sophomores this spring, and in addition to these contests there will be the usual essay and fiction contests for which all members of the society are eligible. These, together with the training in public speaking, are some of the reasons for joining one of the literary societies.

IN THE EUMENEAN.

The Eumenean Literary Society held its first meeting on Saturday evening, January 11. The meeting was called to order by the president and the following elections took place: President, Emery Flynn; Vice-President, R. R. Craig; Secretary, J. R. Boulware, Jr.; Treasurer and Reviewer, S. T. McCloy. This year there will be no Freshman Society, but the new men will be initiated into the Senior Society at an early date. The next meeting of the society will be held in the Eumenean Society hall at the regular time on Saturday. A canvass of the dormitories for new men will be held.this week, and it is hoped that many new men will avail themselves of this opportunity to join a good literary society.

TOWN ITEMS.

THE ORIGINAL HANDY MAN.

A colonel wanted a man-servant, so he inserted an advertisement in a local weekly. One of the applicants who answered was an Irishman.

“What I want,” explained the colonel, “is a useful man—one who can cook, drive a motor, look after a pair of horses, clean boots and windows, feed poultry, milk the cow, and do a little painting and paper-hanging.”

“Excuse me, sor,” said Murphy, “what kind of soil have ye here?”

“Soil?” snapped the colonel. “What's that got to do with it?”

“Well, I thought if it was clay I might make bricks in me spare time.”—Everybody's.

TYPEWRITING

A. P. ORMOND

Mr. John Douglas has moved from his former residence to the house formerly occupied by Dr. Fulton.

STOP AND SEE

Mrs. Agnes Brown has arrived with her children to spend the winter with Dr. Sentelle.

Cunningham, the Barber

If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.

Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Miles are a very welcome addition to the community. They are making their residence with Dr. and Mrs. Martin.

Professor and Mrs. Garnand, who since their arrival have been at Mrs. Henderson's, are now making their home at the residence of Dr. T. W. Lingle.

Next to Pressing Club

Are You Ready for the Season With HIGH CLASS SHOES?

A Complete Line of Military Shoes

Gilmer - Moore Co.
South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Mrs. Addison Brenizer, of Charlotte, has been visiting Dr. and Mrs. Martin.

Mr. Schenck has been spending some time at the home of Mrs. Whittaker.

Mr. Ormond, from overseas, arrived here Christmas morning.

Miss Elizabeth Baskerville was a guest of her cousin during the Christmas holidays.

Miss Mary and Elizabeth Young spent their holidays in Concord visiting.

Miss Margaret Blythe was a visitor at the home of Dr. J. R. Withers.

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.

Engraved Work a Specialty

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

PERMEATE

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
(Phone 643)
T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery and Gifts In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

Spalding Ice Skates For Every Member of the Family Toboggans, Skis, Snowshoes, Hockey Supplies, Etc. Catalog on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., Inc. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier