THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 18, 1919

WILDCATS UNABLE PEANUT PARCHER

(Continued from page 1)

Pierson tried to go through right tackle and made three yards. Murray repeated the trick and landed on Davidson’s one-yard line. Gurley plunged through center for a touchdown. The game at this juncture had been in progress for eight minutes. Gurley missed goal. Score: State 6; Davidson 0.

Black received Gurley’s kickoff on his own five-yard line and returned the oval 12 yards. Johnson made five yards over right tackle. McFadden circled left end for a 28-yard run. Black plunged for five over left tackle. Spann failed to make third down. Gurley made four yards. State penalized five yards for offside. Now State's ball in the middle of the field. Faucette went through left for five yards. Faucette made five around left end. Romefelt stopped Gurley in his tracks. State again penalized 15 yards for holding. A forward pass to Kirkpatrick was fumbled. Gurley kicked goal from the 43-yard line. Score: State 9; Davidson 0.

Gurley kicked 40 yards. Johnson returned 25 yards. Johnson thrown for five-yard loss. Johnson punted 42 yards. Gurley received the punt and came back 45 yards. Douglass made the tackle. Score end of first quarter: State 9; Davidson 0.

Second Quarter.

Davidson's ball on State's 47-yard line. Black made three-yard gain, Davidson penalized five yards for hiking. McFadden fumbled and Whittaker recovered the ball. Faucette circled left end for two yards. Gurley went through left tackle for 10 yards. Faucette made three yards through right tackle. Pierson went around right end for seven yards. Time out for Young, injured. Davidson offside. Murray made two yards. Gurley made one yard off tackle. Gurley went through right tackle for two yards. Gurley went through left tackle for a touchdown. Gurley kicked goal. Score: State 16; Davidson 0.

Gurley kicked 45 yards. Johnson returned 12 yards. Johnson tried a forward pass and failed. Johnson made two yards through tackle. Davidson offside. Johnson circled right end for 18 yards. McFadden made one yard through center. Johnson made one yard over left tackle. A forward pass to Douglas netted 11 yards. Black tried to go around left end but was downed in his tracks. Murray intercepted a forward pass to Douglas and came back 30 yards. Douglas recovered it and made 45. McAlister tried to make it around left end and lost a yard. Johnson lost another trying to get through right tackle. Johnson went around left end for one yard. Johnson kicked 40 yards and Gurley returned the ball 25 yards. Pierson went around right end for 12 yards. State penalized 15 yards for holding. Parks failed to gain around left end. Pierson repeated the attack and made seven yards. Gurley made three over right tackle. Spann intercepted a forward pass and sprinted down the field for 35 yards. McAlister tried to circle left end, but was downed without gain.

The Selwyn Hotel
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

Davidson

It is said that Carl Matthews, while in Charlotte last week, made an ascent with the birdman. While in the air, the local master-manager tried to Jew the airman down. We had a holiday Monday at any rate. One Davidson boy lost his key on a Myers Park car, Saturday night. Must have been out to visit friends at Horner's. Fresh Wilkes says it certainly is a good thing they built Charlotte where they did, ‘cause they never get those hard places ploughed up.

Booker emerges from boarding house cramming biscuit into his mouth, and is addressed by Rail Road Craig: “You're making a good job of it, aren't you?”
Booker: “What?”
Craig: “Getting it all in at once.”
Booker: “Yes, and I bite well, don't I?”

Belk Brothers

Another shipment of young men’s Overcoats in the very latest models at $25.00, $29.50, $39.50, and $49.50.

Liston sent two Queens messenger boys to Davidson colors Saturday night. We wonder why. Reports have it that several yards of Red and Black ribbon occupied a box at Keith’s Saturday night. Martin also was in the box.

Strupper Martin says he doesn't like the doors on the street cars in Charlotte because there's no place to set water over them and wet your friends.

Shoe Repairing: In order to conserve wood, we would suggest that the width of porch swings be reduced from 48 to 30 inches.For neatness and durability send your shoes to The Shu Fixery, Charlotte, N. C.

We are glad so many kicked on the Peanut Parcher last week. It shows they read it anyway.

While Wilkes was entertaining at a cane-chewing, Bugs Robinson tried to suck the juice out in regular old “in a battle thru a straw” fashion.

W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents 30 and 36 Chambers

A monitor at a movie show would have nothing to do. It’s the 101 per cent place.

We've got a band. Now for a muffler, and met the same fate. Spann shot a forward pass to Hammett who missed 440 students, 10 students, 430 loafers.

As it was: As it is: esville, N. C.

Pep Askew says the street cars in Charlotte must get all their gas at night since he was there all day and didn’t see one stop to take on fuel.

The College Printers

If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

Major Jine, McAskill wants to know why they have more than one picture show in town.

Meachum gets lost in crowd at game. Several boys don't get away with walking off with spoons. Big time at Mecklenburg, more boys there than at any other time in Davidson’s history.

DR. JOHNSON’S SERMONS (Continued from page 1)

An appeal that the men before him would take a new stand for Christ, resolving that they would conform their lives to His service. An answer in the affirmative was given by an almost unanimous rising of the audience.

Score at end of second period: State 16; Davidson 0.

Third Quarter.

Johnson kicked off. Faucette recovered the ball on his own 25-yard line and ran 75 yards for a touchdown. Gurley missed goal. Score: State 22; Davidson 0.

Gurley kicked 40 yards, Johnson returned the ball four yards. Homewood bucked the line for a yard gain. McAlister tried a run around right end and was thrown for a three-yard loss. Johnson failed to gain. Murray made three through tackle.

(Continued on Page 8)

ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY 16 Chambers

Johnson tried a forward pass, Spann to Johnson, failed. Spann tried the same performance, and the ball hit a State player on the chest. Hammett recovered it as it bounced off, and made five yards. McAlister went over left for one yard. A forward pass, Spann to Johnson, failed. Johnson made seven yards around left end, and McFadden made one over the same route. Johnson tried another forward pass and it failed. The whistle blew with the ball on State's 27-yard line.

Touchdowns: Ferst 4, Scarboro 1. Goals after touchdown: Fincher 2, Guill.

Officials: Elcock (W. & L.), referee; Major (Auburn), umpire; Lewis (Virginia), head linesman. Time of quarters: 15 minutes.

PLAY TENNIS with Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

Automobiles may be the poetry of motion — until something busts — then it's blank verse.

LOTS OF GO AND PEP in our new Fall fashions. Speed up and get your pick early. No trouble about selling goods this season—the only problem is to keep our lines full, to get the good stuff we've ordered. Buy now and you will have no regrets.

34 S. Tryon CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Announcement....

We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trade marks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors. Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643