DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer
Acting Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. BITZER
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. W. PHILLIES
J. M. RICHARDS
E. H. TUFTS
S. C. WOOL
BOOKER L. LISTON
CRAIG CUNNINGHAM
M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE
N. R. T. R
R. B. J.
R. F. Davidson
F. E. Manning
A. P. Ormand
C. Green
G. W. Mauze
M. P. Calhoun
J. C. Bailey
Additional Reporters: W. A. Gamble and W. J. Cooper.

Business Manager
Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Managers

EDITORIAL

An itemized Thanksgiving account. We are thankful:
That there are only eight more days of classes.
That P. C. has not a good drop kicker.
That “fire” will be abundant Saturday.
That the “Reds” have subsided and Christmas holidays are extended.
That Senior Speaking comes only once in a lifetime.
That the health of the student body has improved since sick call has been doctored.
That nobody has been killed in campus football.
That chapel doesn’t meet at 5:00 a.m.
That none of the faculty has expired.

LET US BE THANKFUL.

In the excitement over football games and in the pleasures of the holiday let us not forget the real purpose for which Thanksgiving day was set aside. Many of our national holidays have come to mean little to us beyond the actual relief we get from the cessation of the daily routine and in the accompanying festivities of the day. Originally Thanksgiving was a religious day and was observed by suitable ceremonies. Today it is looked upon in a different light but its true spirit should not be forgotten. There are many things both nationally and locally for which we should be truly thankful. Our nation has emerged from the war as the leader in international affairs and is facing a brighter future than any other country on the globe. Our Southland has been especially blessed in this era of prosperity and is preparing to take the influential position which it has so long deserved. In our own particular sphere we have every reason to feel gratified. We are in the midst of the biggest and best year the college has ever known. The enrollment has far surpassed that of any other year and a progressive spirit has taken hold which promises to lead to bigger and better things. In the pleasures of the holiday let us not forget to return thanks to the “Giver of every good and perfect gift” for the many blessings which we have enjoyed.

REMEMBER OTHERS.

The Y. M. C. A. has for a long time endeavored to provide and maintain a loafing room for the students. Last year another attempt was made which so far has met with unusual success. The “Y” has done its part nobly but the students have not done theirs. In order for the room to fulfill the service for which it was intended every man should consider the other fellow. Magazines and college weeklies have been provided and it seems that when a student has glanced over them he either walks away with the paper or renders it useless for the man who is to follow. Every week the Saturday Evening Post is purloined by some industrious reader and the college papers are invariably scattered around or torn completely up. The piano and victrola have to be repaired on the average of once a week. A letter has just been received from the piano dealer stating that he finds the instrument has been seriously abused and that the works have been injuriously tampered with. When a roll has been played instead of putting it back in the box and in its proper place it is frequently left out on the piano and thrown over on the table. The consequence is that the men who really want to use the room for recreation purposes are deprived of their pleasure by the carelessness and utter thoughtlessness of a few of the students. The room is yours but not yours alone. Try to keep it so everybody can use it and not make it a one-man proposition.

(Editor’s Note—Anyone wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let’s have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

Sick Call.

Before the Soph cotton picking the faculty was too lenient with sick call. After more than 100 boys answered the sick call in one week, they decided to make the law strict. Now it is too strict. In order for a man to get excused he must take a room at the infirmary and pay $1.25 per day to stay there. If he feels that he is not sick enough to stay at the infirmary he has to either cut classes without excuse or go on them in a very unprepared and sick condition. Some fellows go to the infirmary feeling too bad to go on classes or to study and yet they do not feel like their condition justifies staying there. They will naturally cut classes, stay in their rooms and get a card to appear before the absence committee. There are a number of boys who have classes at every hour the sick call comes. When they answer sick call, they must cut classes. If they do not want to stay at the infirmary they get unexcused absences. There are a lot of fellows who feel like they cannot pay the price unless they are sick enough to have a nurse. The hospital is a lonesome edifice and most boys feel like demanding pay for having to stay there. We do not want to criticize or condemn the faculty in regard to the sick call, but everyone will agree that itis unjust to force a man to stay in the infirmary before he is excused. The doctor ought to be able to know whether a boy is sick or not. Sick call ought to be held when it is accessible to all or else excuse ought to be granted under less strict conditions. When our parents send us to college, they think us men enough to know what to do, and if a man is not excused when he has to cut classes to meet sick call, and does not stay in the infirmary, it is very likely his parents will agree with him in his actions. Our parents have to pay our expenses, and they don’t want a larger bill than necessary. We all feel that a more thorough investigation ought to be made of the matter. 
O. T.

The College Assistants.
It becomes more and more evident every day that the plight of the college professor is not confined to any one college or group of colleges. The profession of teaching in colleges is threatened all over America. The reason for all this can be reduced to one cause, namely, the lack of funds to offer the best men as an inducement to enter or stay in the teaching profession. Many of the colleges at present are using a number of assistants in carrying on regular class work that demands a first-class professor to present. These assistants are usually the best students in college, but at that, it is an injustice to students who are after the best that can be gotten from a college life. Assistants are not live fountains from which a super-abundance of knowledge flows, and a college teacher should be just such a personage. The older college professors who are trying to keep up a high standard in their departments find it impossible with a staff of inadequate, amateur assistants, though these latter may be the best in college. One of the greatest assets to a country is its colleges. From them, the captains of industry, business, and of all walks of life are drawn. Action for relief of the professors trying to carry on work that will train these most needed chieftains is worthy of the consideration of the national government, and the wealthy men who have at heart the future of America. It is not a question of “come over into Macedonia and help us,” but an issue of awakening the governmental authorities and having the wealthy men touch their purse for enough means to “pull their own bacon out of the fire.”
—Ex.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1919

OPEN FORUM

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor's Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote, or burn any and all exchanges).

Fresh Challenge Sophs.
The Freshman Class of Columbia University has challenged the Sophomore Class to an inter-class debate. As yet, the Sophs have failed to answer the challenge, and it looks like the new men will be awarded the debate by default.
—The Columbia Spectator.

No Future for a Fourth.
A survey of the students of Agnes Scott finds that one-fourth of the old students have no plans laid for life after graduation.
—The Agonistic.
Can't some of us help ‘em lay their plans?

Wake Up, Davidson!
We are expecting the Carolina Glee Club on November the twenty-first. This anticipated event will be in the auditorium at eight o'clock. Get your fifty cents ready immediately, because you know nobody will want to miss this treat.
—The Carolinian.

Delegates to Des Moines.
Trinity is arranging to send four student delegates to the Volunteer Conference in Des Moines. The Student Body is to raise $75 towards the expenses of each delegate.
—The Trinity Chronicle.

In Praise of “Buck” Flowers.
It’s not the fact that you win or lose
That counts at the end of the game,
But the way you fought and the price you paid
That wins a way to fame.
It’s not the fact that we won the game
That brings us thoughtful hours,
But the price we paid for that victory,
For they injured halfback Flowers.
A man broke loose with an open field;
He thought he was in luck.
A lonely man stood ‘fore the goal,
But the lonely Jacket was “Buck.”
He braced himself to take the shock,
He swore he shouldn’t pass.
He drove straight at the flying man
And they fell in a tangled mass.
Our goal was safe, the runner stopped,
Our line was free from harm,
But the harm they did was worse than this
For “Buck” had an injured arm.
We take our hats off to the man
Who played his best for Tech.
We're strong for you, “Buck” Flowers,
You're a worthy “Ramblin’ Reck!”
—The Technique

Compulsory Chapel on Sunday.
The Philo Literary Society recently debated the question of abolishing compulsory Sunday chapel. Although the affirmative won, the negative put up some strong arguments.
—The Targum.

Engineering Branch of R. O. T. C.
The University of Tennessee has secured an engineering corps of the R. O. T. C. Students enrolling in this corps will receive full instruction in the science of constructive engineering.
—The Orange and White.

Program
Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Dec. 1st, 2d, and 3d
Orchestra, direction H. E. Leppert.
PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
MAC RAE and CLEGG
The Intruder and “The Queen of the Wheel.”
WILBERT EMBS and HELEN ALTON
In a Dainty Diversion.
LIDA MAC MILLAN and BERT SNOW in “CONTRARY”
A Comedy Skit by Mack Esplan
EDDIE FOYER
The Man of a Thousand Poems.
HIRSCHOFF TROUPE
Of Gypsies, presenting “A NIGHT IN A GYPSY CAMP.”

Program Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 4th, 5th, and 6th
OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, direction H. E. Leppert.
PATHE NEWS—ROLIN COMEDY.
GUY WEADICK and FLORES LA DUE
(The Guy that put the Punch in Cowpuncher. Champion Lady Fancy Roper.)
BERT HOWARD
The Unusual Comedian.
KEENE and WILLIAMS-Kate
Presenting a Comedy Skit entitled “A ROADSIDE FLIRTATION”
Note: Miss Williams’ Costumes exclusively by Woll-Worth.
O’ROURKE and ADELPHI
Two Charming Misses in a Cycle of Melodies.
THREE BOBS
Jovial Jugglers