The DAVIDSONIAN

T. H. SPENCE, Editor
D. W. ROBERTS .......... Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR. ........ Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK ............ Athletic Editor
J. C. McCASKILL .......... Alumni Editor
S. H. ASKEW ............ Associate Athletic Editor
D. M. CHALMERS .......... Exchange Editor
L. G. CALHOUN .......... Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON ............ Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR. ........ Literary Editor
T. H. SPENCE ............ Joke Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS .......... Business Manager
L. L. McALLISTER ........ Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG ............ Assistant Manager
T. H. WILSON ............ Assistant Manager
A. M. MITCHELL .......... Assistant Manager

If you don’t like these little jokes
And their dryness makes you groan,
Just stroll around occasionally
With some good ones of your own.

“One little kiss,” she sang,
I tried to kiss her but she said
“You awful boy, I'll knock you dead.”
And not wishing to die I ceased to try
To kiss her.

R. McILWAIN
E. H. TUFTS
J. M. RICHARDS
B. B. BRITENHIRT
A. M. MITCHELL
D. L. MAHOOD

“What do you mean?” 'Twas I began
That infuriated miss.
“You asked and I but offered you a kiss.”
She looked and said disdainfully; for me quite painfully,
“That was a song.”

EDITORIAL

Gee Whiz! Let’s Give Fifteen for Coach Crayton.
If the Greater Davidson Club keeps up the pace it has started, we predict Davidson having a student body of eight hundred in the near future—anyway “Watch Davidson Grow.”

Some Crowd.
So reader, dear, remember,
As along these lines you glance,
And if in any way you see perchance
Something to you that seems quite new
This is a paper.

DAVE ROBERTS SICK.
Don't mind making suggestions for this department. We won't follow them anyway, so no harm will be done.

We regret very much to announce that Dave Roberts, the Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, is still sick in the Hospital, Wilmington. “Dave” contracted a case of typhoid fever in the middle of the summer—he was thought practically well until about two weeks ago when he had a relapse. At present, he is doing nicely—but will be unable to return to college until sometime in October. Members of the staff will carry on his work until he comes. We hope he will soon be entirely well, for we need him bad, in the various activities of the college.

Fresh, do you think that this place is dead? See Mount Mourne, kid. See Mount Mourne.

Personally we are not worrying in the least but how in the mischief are they going to run the “Western Movies” without saloons.

As the Davidsonian goes to press the college record shows a greater enrollment than ever in the history of the college. “The Greater Davidson Club” had as its goal 400 students. This number has been passed sometime ago, and indications are that several more will be here. We hope to be able to announce the exact number in the next issue—which will be a great surprise for the friends of the college. Most of the excess is due to a large Freshman class. They are a fine looking set of fellows, coming from a wide and representative part of the entire country. The college, faculty, and student body extend to them a hearty welcome. We are glad they are to be a part of us, and we welcome them.

THE LARGEST ENROLLMENT.
Sept. 9—Fresh Hodge's trunk loses out in a contest with a coal car at the Union Station.

The two fresh who were inquiring for the Seaboard depot in Charlotte to come to Davidson remind us of the old saying: “When silence is golden, ‘tis folly to be wise.”

LET’S HAVE A BAND.
If there is any one thing that will put life and “pep” into an organization, a student body or just simply an idle crowd, more than anything else—it is a band. For a number of years Davidson has been without a band. There may have been a time when Davidson had one, but the present student body does not remember it. At this time a band is needed more than perhaps at any previous time because of the military feature of the college. Colonel Mueller has put in a requisition to the War Department for a band leader—it looks likely that this request will be granted—but even if it isn’t—there are enough musicians here to find a good leader among them. Those who have been in the army know what it is to hear the band strike a lively tune, when we are all fagged out after a hard day’s march. “The last long mile” is made shorter, the feet seem lighter, one feels more like a real man, when the band starts up on “The Star Spangled Banner,” “Dixie,” “Yankee Doodle,” “America,” and other famous band songs. All it takes to have one is sufficient interest among the students. Let’s get interested.

COLLEGE SPIRIT.
Since the league of nations needs an army and Villa needs a job of a martial nature, why not make him chief of an international police force?

“Turn backward, turn backward,
Oh time in thy flight,
And don't let McAskill
Turn off the light” (with apologies).

Don't kick on the college. Had you ever noticed the fact that the people who knock this old world the hardest are the first ones to send for a doctor when they get sick?

We like daylight savings all right but if the President could arrange for an extra hour of moonlight for the balmy June nights like those just passed, wouldn't it be—Oh, boy!

Don't try to make the honor roll
Nor yet to lead your class,
But try to lead the college
And with luck you may—pass.

Said the bald-headed man to the waitress bold:
the loyalty of an institution which makes a student guard its good name by being manly and courteous in conduct at all times and in all places. They mean the sense of responsibility which aids a student in forming habits of temperance and industry. They mean that eagerness to make a grateful use of his opportunities which leads a student to keep his own body fit, his mind alert, and thoughts pure. By college spirit some men mean this, and far more; they mean that loyalty to a college which rivets a man to the severest tasks of scholarship, through which he gains intellectual power.

Alexander, sighing for more worlds to conquer, had nothing on some of the present-day seniors who used up all the crips last year. She replied scornfully: “I can’t help that. If the blamed thing's chilly—put on your hat.”

DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

Famous Jews: Friend, Elliot, Beall, ex-officio. The Wandering Ikey. Lady’s trunk strays into Louisiana. Harrel desires information concerning ox-hides. Freshman (name withheld for fear of violence) addressing an “assembly”—“Gentlemen of the class of '22.”

Ideal Colleges:
For Fresh—Sophless.
For Sophs—Examless.
For Juniors—Reportless.
For Weuns—Co-ed.

Ain’t we unegotistical? While you all (C. Alphonso Smith) are writing to your girls, we have to put in our time on this junk and do our writing in our spare time, which from present indications will be sometime after the last of next May.

And in spite of the fact that the government of these United States is making efforts to prevent this country ever being “lit up" again, we have with us even yet, the light that did not fail—moonshine.

“All things come to him who waits.” Thus runs the little song. But, friend, be sure that when you wait, you do not wait too long.

Don't get homesick. Probably you weren't half as valuable there as you thought you were, anyway.

“Preacher” Beaty, the co-partner of “General” Hall, has returned to Davidson. He says that he misses General a great deal, but supposes that he can hold down the job by himself. “Birchie” Romefelt has returned to Davidson and has been fortunate enough to secure a room with “Red” Sullivan.

KEEP THE ROOMS CLEAN.

“Man is a product of his environment.” There seems some conflict in opinion among men as to the truth of this phrase; but inasmuch as different colleges and universities produce different types of men, we must accept some element of truth in it. In other words, four years of college life is bound to leave some trace in a man’s life.

The greatest thing a college man can do is to live a clean life. But can we live a clean life while our physical being is living in a dirty room or on a trash-heaped campus? Physical cleanliness is the first step toward self-respect, and a clean dwelling place is just as important as clean clothes. There are other obvious reasons why we should live in clean rooms, for health and for appearance.

But what we are interested in is not the reasons, the question is: “Are our rooms in the dormitories as clean and neat as they should be?” Unfortunately, the answer is in the negative. Our rooms as a whole are not clean; but the worst conditions exist in our water closets and bathrooms. They are simply filthy beyond description. Such a condition exists nowhere in higher institutions of any standing. We dismiss this question of uncleanliness with the usual phrase, “These niggers aren't worth a cuss.” But the janitors put the blame upon us. Both seem to be right in one sense and wrong in the other. We are not careful enough to make them careful. Let us co-operate with the authorities and clean up our rooms and campus so that the janitors will be ashamed to leave them uncleaned.

Cleanliness is next to Godliness. Let us do it and at once, too!—The Tar Heel.

An old negro preacher was introducing a white preacher. The white preacher had offered to preach a sermon for the colored brother, and, in introducing the white preacher, the old negro could not find enough adjectives with which to praise the visitor. “Dis noted preacher,” said the old negro to his flock, “is one of de greatest preachers of de age. He knows de unknowable, he kin do de undoable and he can onscrew de onscrutable!”

Davidson Secures New Head of English Department. Prof. Shewmake Well Qualified for This Department.

Professor E. F. Shewmake, Jr., who is to occupy the chair of English, is a man of pleasing personality and wide educational experience. Those who have met him have been impressed by his spirit of cordiality and helpfulness.

Professor Shewmake received his A. B. degree at William and Mary College, after which he specialized in English at Columbia University and received his M. A. in that department. He has completed all Ph.D. work at the University of Virginia except his dissertation. After this, he taught English and Latin one year in the Newport News High School, Latin and History one year at the Norfolk Academy, and was principal and head of the English department at the Staunton, Va., High School. From this last place, he went to the University of Virginia and was instructor and fellow in English for one year and adjunct professor in English at the same institution for two years.

At William and Mary, he belonged to the Pi Kappa Alpha and Phi Beta Kappa Fraternities. Later at the University of Virginia, he was a member of the Raven Society, which is a local honorary society on the order of Phi Beta Kappa. Every Davidson man should be proud to have a man of such exceptional social and mental equipment on the campus and should give him a hearty welcome.

DIRECTORY.

Student Council.
Seniors—W. F. Hall, S. H. Askew, H. M. Spann, W. B. Sullivan, D. M. Chalmers.
Juniors—J. M. McKeldin, W. C. Gaither, J. R. Boulware, J. C. McCaskill.
Sophomores—G. H. Cornelson, Jas. Sprunt, J. M. Richards.

Athletic Association Officers.
H. M. Spann, President; A. L. Currie, Vice-President; F. L. Jackson, Secretary-Treasurer.

Student Body Officers.
L. L. McAlister, President; L. B. Schenck, Vice-President; A. L. Currie, Vice-President; Jas. Sprunt, Secretary-Treasurer.

Class Officers.
Senior—W. F. Hall.
Junior—J. M. McKeldin.
Sophomores—G. H. Cornelson.
Freshman—To be selected later.

Young Men's Christian Association.
D. M. Chalmers, President; D. W. Roberts, Vice-President; A. L. Currie, Secretary; J. C. McCaskill, Treasurer.

Cabinet.
D. W. Roberts—Devotional.
A. D. McArn—Fresh Reception.
L. G. Calhoun—Mission Study.
W. F. Hall, Jr.—Personal Work.
C. M. McAskill—Publication.
R. R. Craig—Attendance.
L. L. McAllister—Bible Study.
S. H. Askew—Christian Activities.
C. W. Worth—Missionary Fund.
L. B. Schenck—Community Service.

Board of Control.
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Chairman; Prof. Macon Reed, F. L. Jackson, S. H. Askew, Treasurer; L. B. Schenck, Secretary; J. R. Boulware, W. B. Sullivan, D. M. Chalmers.

Pershing’s drastic orders against the Yanks flirting with German women are going to give his presidential boom a big impetus in the suffrage states.