THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 6, 1919

Popular as it seems at present, the Varsity should not be troubled by lack of punters in the next few years.

PEANUT PARCHER
The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

A part of Sunday was spent by the majority of the boys who were on the hill in hearing and enabling others to hear the rumor to the effect that the game with N.C. State was to be played on the hill instead of at the Queen City.

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

Our suggestion for a class ring: Two shorts and one long.

YELLOW JACKETS WIN.
(Continued from page 1)

Ed 50 yards to Spann, who recovered on his own 17-yard line. McDonough hit right tackle for two. Johnston punted 30 yards to Ferst, who returned 24. Tech's ball on Davidson's 35-yard line. McDonough went over left tackle for three yards. Ferst hit the same spot for three more, Guill fumbled and Davidson recovered. Half ended. Score: Tech 13, Davidson 0.

Third Quarter.

Johnston kicked to Huffines, who was ed to gain, Ferst made four thru left tackle. McDonough failed to gain. Ferst punted 38 yards to Spann, who downed in his tracks. Wyman, of '23, ascertained the spontaneous combustibility of the comic section of the Saturday afternoon edition of the Sunday comic section of a current newspaper during one of his vacant periods of Monday morning of this week.

Forward pass, Spann to Douglas, netted five yards. Johnston punted 45 yards to Ferst. McDonough failed to gain. Ferst failed to gain. Ferst failed again. Ferst punted 33 yards to Johnston. Johnston made four thru left tackle. McAlister made two at right tackle. On an attempted pass Davidson fumbled, Tech recovered. McDonough made two at left tackle. Ferst made nine and first down at left guard. Gaiver hit left tackle for three. He fumbled but recovered. Ferst made two at left tackle. A forward pass to Doyal netted seven yards. Ferst made two at left tackle. Ferst made his third touchdown when he went around right end for seven yards. Fincher kicked goal. Score: Tech 20, Davidson 0.

Shoe Repairing

Florida Davis, on being aroused from his slumbers to go to prayer meeting, rushed out into the hall and inquired of the first person he met: "Where's the fire?"

For neatness and durability send your shoes to

An exhibition of wit sufficient to cause the greatest geniuses (?) of present-day mirth to shrink away impressed with their utter state of hopeless mediocrity was exhibited in Rumple on the last day of last week, where had gathered from all corners of the campus, the flower of Davidson's bush pullers. Hawkins, Martin, and Liston all tied for second place in the contest which was held.

"The colder it gets the more heat we have," observed Big Gunn as he placed his hand on the radiator.‘fumbled but recovered. Spann skirted left end for 11 yards and his effort resulted in another touchdown. Guill kicked the goal. Score: Tech 27, Davidson 0.

Guill kicked off 40 yards to McAlister who returned 23. McAlister made four yards at left tackle. A forward pass, Spann to Douglas, went for nine yards. Johnston made five through center. Spann skirted right end for seven yards. McAlister made it first down. A forward pass, Spann to Douglas, gained three yards. Johnston hit center for five yards. Johnston repeated for one more. Tech penalized five yards, off-side. Johnston went through tackle for three and hit the same for four more. Tech fumbled, Davidson recovered. Murray made one yard. LeBey threw Johnston for a five-yard loss. Johnston hit center for one yard. 

From all reports, the record slide of Phillips in the Bingham game was surpassed by that of a waiter in an Asheville hotel which was witnessed by the entire Scrub squad. All report a very enjoyable meal.

A forward pass, Spann to Douglas, went for 12 yards. Guill hit center for one yard. Scarboro failed to gain. Ferst bucked left tackle for five. Scarboro swept around left end for 10 yards. Scarboro ran 35 yards for a touchdown around the left side of the line. Ferst missed the goal. Score: Tech 33, Davidson 0. Ferst kicked 35 yards to Spann and the game ended.

“United we stand; divided we fall,” said one of the Springfields which composed a stack on the drill field.

Red Smith was asked by a member of the class of '23 what he had made on the first month’s review in Fresh history. Upon hearing Red’s reply, the fresh remarked, “That does pretty well for a fresh.”

Line-up:
Tech Position Davidson
Fincher......... LE....... Davis
Doyal........... LT....... Romefelt
Phillips (Capt.)... C........ Brady
Dowling........ RG....... LaFar
Huffines......... RT....... McMaster
Staton.......... RE....... Douglas
Guill........... QB....... Spann (Capt.)
Ferst........... RH....... Murray
Gaiver.......... LH....... Johnston
McDonough... FB....... McAlister

Substitutions—Davidson: McFadden for Murray, Shepherd for McAlister, Werth for McFadden. Tech: Granger for Fincher, Amis for Phillips, Frye for Staton, Nesbit for Dowling, Webb for Doyal, Davis for Nesbit, Smith for McDonough, McRee for Huffines, Lyman for McRee, Scarboro for Gaiver.

Touchdowns: Ferst 4, Scarboro 1.
Goals after touchdown: Fincher 2, Guill.

Officials: Elcock (W. & L.), referee; Major (Auburn), umpire; Lewis (Virginia), head linesman. Time of quarters: 15 minutes.

INNIS WITH PLAY

Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
THE COMMISSARY, 34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Announcement....
We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors. Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643