Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Student Government Won Over Faculty Gov

Eumenean Society Elects 1919-'20 Officers.

PROGRAM.

Saturday Night, April 26.

Debate: “That the R. O. T. C. units should be continued permanently in the American college.”

Affirmative
Sullivan
Sprunt
McIlwaine
McGirt

Negative
C. B. Robson
McCaskill
Williamson
Wilkerson

Declamations
Cunningham
Craig, S. P.

Orations
Robson, S. W.

Phi. (Announced Later.)

EU. SOCIETY.

The Eumenean Society held its regular meeting in the hall last Saturday night. Those that were present seemed quite conspicuous among so many empty seats. The election of officers and the moving picture show made it necessary to cut the program short. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That student government is better than faculty government.” The affirmative was upheld by R. R. Craig and B. T. Liston. Their argument was sound and showed evidence of deep thought, however not original on their part. The points were: That student government gives boys training needed in later life; that the students are capable of governing. Most of their time was spent trying to prove that faculty government is not the best. The negative was ably defended by G. M. Robison, J. P. Price, W. P. Cummings. Their principal points were: Boys are not capable of governing themselves; that you cannot rely on or trust students on critical questions; that school room honesty should be dealt with by the faculty; that student government is inconsistent; faculty government guarantees to the student the standard of a diploma, which by student government is greatly lowered. The debate as a whole was good. It showed evidence of a little preparation, which is quite uncommon for society programs. Very little authority was quoted except that by Mr. Cummings who quoted very frequently from Mr. Bitzer as his authority. After the program the house entered into the election of officers for the fall term of year 1919-1920, with the following result.

President—A. S. Asque.
Vice President—J. R. Boulware, Jr.
Treasurer—C. A. McGirt.
Secretary—G. N. Atkinson.
Critic—W. B. Sullivan.

PHI SOCIETY.

At the regular meeting of the Phi Society Saturday night, the subject for discussion was: “Resolved, That student government is superior to faculty form of government.” McCain and Long upheld the affirmative by showing that it was democratic, necessary and practical. The negative, upheld by Howell and Garth, claimed that the faculty being older and more experienced could carry out a better form of government. The judges voted unanimously in favor of the affirmative. Following the debate was a declamation by Freeman. His subject, “Citizenship”—by Roosevelt, was very appropriate, but a lack of preparation was evident. T. R. Alexander gave a timely oration on Norsemen mythology. Booker and Wool in an extemporaneous debate, Resolved: “That all students of Davidson College should be compelled to stay for commencement,” showed very clearly that they would not remain. The affirmative, upheld by Booker, lost by a vote of three to nothing. In the absence of the critic, Dunlap took his place.

“Teach a girl to dance and she will dance. Hence if you teach a man to fight he will fight.” While the Fresh-Soph. debating teams were trying to prove the truth or falsity of the statement, it was being amply demonstrated on the campus. The R. O. T. C. may be able to stimulate war conditions but it cannot even reach the height of perfection reached by the Rumple-Georgia feud. General McCloy of the Rumpleite army, acting under the international law that any unclaimed land is subject to colonization, made claim to a bench in the name of Rumple. The President of the Republic of Georgia sent General Cullum to investigate Rumple's claim to the aforesaid bench. After investigation, General Cullum reported that Georgia could rule the bench better than the Autocratic Rumple. The necessary orders were immediately issued and it was seized. Rumple retaliated by reoccupying the territory and declaring war. Georgia mobilized her forces and General McCloy made a strategic retreat to his fortresses and called on “Goliath” Sherrill for aid. With one mighty sweep of his hand, Goliath broke asunder the innocent bench which had caused so much distraction from studies. He then challenged any of the enemy to single combat. “David” Douglass accepted his first challenge and waded into him without waiting for his slingshot. He found the weak place in Goliath’s armor, then struck the fatal blow. Rumple, through her King, immediately sued for peace.with status quo ante-bellum terms which were accepted and the treaty signed.

LIBRARY NEWS.
This week's list of new books covers such a wide territory that everyone ought to be interested in at least one of them. The list is led by two volumes on history: “Economic Development of Modern Europe,” by Ogg, and “American World Politics,” by Weyl. There are two works on education, “Business and Education,” by Vanderlip, and “Vocational Guidance,” by Puffer. Also, “The Bible and Universal Peace,” by Gilbert, “Bible in English Literature,” by Work, and “Juvenile Peace,” by Beebe. Lastly, there is “The Destinies of the Stars,” by Arrhenius, an interesting work for students of astronomy.

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS
Along with nature’s touches to the campus, we are glad to see several good, practical improvements. The drainage of the walks has been cleaned out to ensure better walking during the spring rains. The steady job of keeping cut the vast expanses of grass has been started. To the delight of the many tennis players, new back-stops have been put up at several of the tennis courts. These new back-stops were certainly put up to stay and do good service. Iron poles have supplanted the wooden ones and extra heavy wire stretched upon them. The paintbrush has left its work here and there, greatly brightening things up.

The Peanut Parocher
“Mr. Booker, was Thales the first philosopher?”
Mr. Booker: “Because he fell in a well, doctor.”

Professor: “Why was Crip riders all live lives of ease, their grades do very well, but those who take Soph chemistry are said to all catch thunder.”

“Oh, insistency, thou art a jewel,” misquoth the young man as he was accepted by the girl who had turned him down on four previous occasions.

Among those ships which have gone to the “port of missing men” may be included that craft which carried our last year's damage fees.

Little Possum, as critic in the Phi Society: “The gentleman used too much slang in the speech he pulled.”

Having chosen Geneva as the seat of the League of Nations, it now remains for the diplomats to choose a league to occupy said bench.

We beg to acknowledge the receipt of the “Bee Dee Stock and Poultry Almanac for 1919,” and also the catalogue number of Davidson College Bulletin for the same year.

If you don’t like the exam schedule, keep quiet. Probably they found it impossible to suit both you and us.

The shouts that once through Chambers halls, the sound of glee hath shed, no more ring out within her walls for now our pep hath fled. (Apologies to Moore.)

In the interest of science and the White Drug Company, Joe Story conducted a very interesting and destructive experiment in practical chemistry Thursday night.

THE GOLDEN QUILL?
Drop in at 12 Chambers and hear my line. I am never too busy to entertain you.

WOES OF A REPORTER.
They were sitting in the parlor, where the light was low and dim, she seemed to be contented, and no murmur came from him.
“George,” she asked, “Are you reporting for that horrid paper yet? It is shameful how they publish all the scandal they can get.”
“No, my love,” he answered softly, and he winked unto himself, “I have left” (in fact that morning they had laid him on the shelf).
“But,” he said and hugged her closer, she returning the caress, “Just at present I am working for the Associated Press.”

EXPLANATION OF LIGHT ECONOMY.
Bill: “Do you know that turning down the gas saves matches?”
Milly: “No, I thought that turning down the gas frequently made matches.”
Editor’s Note: Turning off an electric light often causes sparking. Turning off a gas light causes an increase of pressure. An increase of pressure causes a lessening of the waste.—Agnostic.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Fountain...
The Rexall Store
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
Ideal Location, Complete Equipment, Strong Personnel of the Camp Council.
MILITARY ATHLETIC EDUCATIONAL
On Deer Park Lake, at the foot of Elk Lodge Mountain
BREVARD, N. C.
For Boys Between the Ages of Nine and Eighteen
Season of 1919, July 2 to August 27
For further information, address,
W. McK. Fetzer, Director
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA