The DAVIDSONIAN, April 2, 1919

Actors In Terrible Tragedy Revealed

Much Interest Manifested in Coming Trial.

Due to the change in The Davidsonian staff last week, the violent attempts of the parties concerned to suppress all
mention of the outrageous occurrence, and the post-war conditions affecting the press, we were forced to omit one of the
most notorious affairs of the past year. Various attempts have been made to bribe the reporters and to curtail the
freedom of the press, but thanks to the untiring efforts of the printer’s devil, we at last have all the
details in hand and herewith present the stark truth to the public.

The afternoon of March the twenty-first was fair and cloudless, little presaging the catastrophe which was about to take place.
Harry Bagdad Brown, Champion Heavy-weight Lady-Killer of Rumple Hall, wishing to win the affections of Miss Priscilla Wilson and still
continue to bask in the winsome smiles of Madame Slootitia Forgey, decided to take them both for what is known,
in the uncouth parlance of the day, as a “joy-ride.”

Light-hearted in anticipation of a delightful evening, this young Adonis repaired to the cheese-shop of Jew Eliott, the genial village
storekeeper. After much bartering and haggling over pennies, for the munificent sum of fourteen cents, Heavy was able to obtain
lease on Lee’s antiquated, one-cylinder hay-burner for the afternoon. Arrayed in his spotless glad-rags, he appeared before the ancient columns
of Chambers, gaily caroling a call to his fair lady friends. After a reasonable wait of an hour and a
half, these maidens, having completed an extensive toilet, appeared arrayed like lilies of the field. Right gallantly were they assisted
into the shay by Burnell. After all were comfortably settled, Heavy threw in the clutch, hit the differential of his
steed a mighty whack, and they were off.

And here, gentle reader, enters the criminal aspect of the affair. Young Brown, not content with traveling at the legal
gait of three miles per hour, and thus being able to take in the scenic beauty of the surrounding countryside,
and wishing to exhibit to his fair companions his skill and daring, soon cast off all restraint and shot up
to a high rate of speed. They whirled around the main walk of the campus, endangering the life and limb
of the peaceful public and the studious students. Wheeling rapidly past Beall, the Broker's, and thundering down the tranquil thoroughfare,
well-deserved Nemesis overtook them. There was a sudden rending sound, and behold “The One Horse Shay” was no more. With
a resounding crash, wheels, spokes, shafts, axles, harness, and various other paraphernalia flew about in all directions. With agonizing shrieks,
Miss Priscilla and Madame Slootitia flew indecorously through the unresisting atmosphere to the hard, hard ground, exposing their predicament to
the callous crowd of gaping bystanders. Heavy volplaned in a graceful arc to the opposite side of the road, and
skidding several feet on his face, lay in a state of coma.

Cruct Howell, standing on the corner, gave the emergency call for the Aesculapean Club. They rushed up in a body
and tenderly gathered up the remains. The fair ones escaped unscathed while Brown suffered a severe wound on the left
cheek of his physiognomy. Although the Aesculapeans were able to resuscitate the human victims, they could do nothing for the
chariot. Jew immediately instituted suit in tort, retaining as his counsel James E. McQueen, while the defendants have engaged The
Peanut Parcher.

REPORTS REACH HOME

“Amo” Love and Company appeared before the faculty last Thursday to make a report on the inadequacy of the telegraph
system as a means of securing an excuse. “They” McAlister and “Funkey” Wilson proved that they were true descendants of
Abraham by staging a “Grand Opening” in No. 1 Watts last week. The patterns of the shirts and pajamas displayed
showed their “Yiddish” instincts. It has been rumored...around the campus from several sources that A. P. Ormend bought a pack
of cigarettes last week. We have our very serious doubts as to the veracity of this statement, however, and print
it only at its face value. Needless to say, if it was true, this purchase did not impair his “humming”
ability in the least. The “sea food” crop in the Georgia shrubbery seems to be very prolific, judging from the
number of boys that have fallen victim to them.

A Case for Those That Ride Late.
He—"If I stole a kiss would it be petty larceny?"
She—"No, I think it would be grand.”

Everyone that had received their bonus or was able to borrow enough money journeyed down to Queen City Saturday afternoon
to see the game. From the side of the said vehicle, most of them must have gone in “Pebble’s” jitney.
General Hall was among the more unfortunate ones.

Baal worship every Thursday night in No. 78 Chambers. The public is very cordially invited to attend and participate. —L.
L. Sanderson.

Judging from the number that were taken into the Aesculapean Club last Friday night, the number of Quack Doctors in
the United States will increase greatly within the next few years.

“Shank” Murphy attempted to set up open-air housekeeping in the South end of town in order to be near the
scene of action.

Lost—Strayed or Stolen—while drilling on the Athletic Field, one guide answering to the name of “Pebble” Stone. Finder will please
return to Company “D". No reward offered.

See “Pap” Askew, the Sunday School Superintendent, for any information concerning the location of good seats at Keith's. Judging from
Saturday night, he is a past master at the art.

Engaged the services of L. L. Sanderson, of Flora Macdonald College. The case will be tried before Mayor Sloan in
the near future.

R. O. T. C. ORGANIZATION PERFECTED
(Continued from page 1)
I.—Discipline and Courtesy—Theoretical.
M—Discipline and Courtesy—Theoretical.
N—Discipline and Courtesy—Practical.
O—Battalion Drill.
R—Recitation.

The above work will be instructed to the corps by commissioned officers, aided by the “non-coms.” The Captains, First Lieutenants,
Second Lieutenants, and First Sergeants will be excused from one drill each week according to schedule.

THE WAR IS OVER
But We Continue to Deliver THE BEST FRESH MEAT
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

IF YOU SHOT HIM
Come In and CELEBRATE
If You Got Shot
Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT
CAKES-CANDIES-DRINKS

COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches and Clocks, Kodaks, Film and Developing
W. S. HENDERSON
JEWELER

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting one
you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you
deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your
old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE, Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
The Rexall Store
S. TRYON ST.
Charlotte, N. C.

Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
Dunlap Hats
E. & W. Metric Shirts
Wickwire & Brandegee Kincaid Clothing
