The DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1919

MR. PARKER WRITES OF WORK IN KOREA

Pyengyang, Korea, Jan. 2, 1919.

Dear Fellow Workers:

We closed our fall session on the 20th of December, and at that time practically all of the college boys, and a number of the academy boys went out two by two into the country to hold revival services for a week or ten days. Most of these boys are returning now, and they give very encouraging reports of their work. My secretary went out with another boy to a church some distance away where many had fallen away during the last few years from various causes, and he reports that many of these came back, and many new ones decided to believe. The churches were very anxious to have the boys come, and paid all their expenses. All arrangements were made through the College and Academy Missionary Societies, so that each call was supplied as far as possible. The boys certainly showed a fine spirit to be willing to give up almost their whole holiday to this work, and we feel that they have been a great blessing wherever they have gone. We have not as many boys as we had last year, but we have a fine lot of Christian lads, and we feel that work among them is indeed a great privilege.

Saturday we begin school again, and we are looking forward to a good year. I don’t think any of the boys will drop out at this time. We have had a most delightful Christmas in every way. On Christmas Eve we had our community tree at the Gillis’ home at 4:30 in the afternoon. The children gave a nice program of songs and recitations. No presents were given on the tree to foreigners, but each one brought an offering of food or clothing for the poor of the city, of which there are so many suffering ones. Also, a collection was taken during the day for a “home” for the poor, which the missionaries have undertaken to run. About two hundred and sixty yen was subscribed by the community. This home is for the down-and-outs, and provides a sleeping place and a square meal—of millet, which is considered the poorest grade of food—for those who have no place to go. The attractions are such as only those who are in real want take advantage of them, so that no one is helped who is not needy. A great work has been done by this home in the past, and we feel that it is much needed.

The Korean who has had charge of it heretofore was an ideal man, who enjoyed his work, and gave himself to it, making friends of those who came in, and sacrificing self in many ways. We are very sorry to have lost him this year, and don’t know what provision can be made, but we are hoping and praying for the right man for the place. It isn’t an easy position to fill, and one has to be willing to give up a home of his own in order to do the right kind of work. Last year we gave tickets to beggars who came to the door, and these tickets entitled them to one night’s lodging and board, but all the plans have not been worked out yet for this year, and we may find some better way to do. On Christmas day we sent around cards and small remembrances to the children of the community as usual, and each one celebrated for themselves. At ten in the morning and again at night each of the city churches had a Christmas program, the one in the morning being especially for the children. At this service offerings were taken for the poor also.

We had a mild December, and Christmas day was not cold, but night before last the wind began to blow, and yesterday and today have both been extremely cold—to say the least. I went over to my office at the school awhile ago to get my typewriter—we had no fire in the school building during the holidays, so I have had to move over to the house—and my hands almost froze off bringing it home. Of course, I ought to be getting used to the cold now after three winters of it here, but every year it seems to be just a little worse than ever before. And our coldest weather hasn't come yet!

We are always glad to hear any news from home, and we know that this has been the merriest Christmas fora long time. May the New Year bring you each one many blessings and the greatest happiness. As the Koreans say, "Ten thousand times ten thousand blessings be yours." Remember the work in your prayers. As ever, your fellow worker, W. I. PARKER.

JUNIORS TO REVEAL (Continued from page 1)

22. McConnell, Harvey — Russell, Chester, S. C.: "The Ideal Physician."
23. McGirt, Charles Augustus, Poulan, Ga.: Launch Out Into the Deep.
24. McQueen, James E., Clio, S. C.: How I Won the War in the S. A. T. C.
25. Matthews, C. J., Wilmington, N. C.: What Shall America's Future Course Be?
26. Murphy, S. W., Salisbury, N. C.: The Future of the South.
27. Richards, John Gardiner, Jr., Liberty Hill, S. C.: Victorious America, Saturday, 2:30 P.M.
28. Roberts, David Worth, Washington, D. C.: Practical Eugenics.
29. Robinson, Alfred Green, Thomasville, Ga.: Essentials of Happy Marriage.
30. Sample, Gilbert Douglas, Mebane, N. C.: The Future Aeroplane.
31. Smith, Hugh, The Hollow, Va.: From Isolation to Leadership.
32. Shields, Benjamin Ernest, Atlanta, Ga.: Freedom of the Seas.
33. Spence, Thomas Hugh, Jr., Rocky River, N. C.: The Orange and the Green.
34. Stogner, Daniel Coppedge, Rockingham, N. C.: Zionism.
35. Sullivan, William Bartlett, Concord, Ga.: His Source of Power.
36. Taylor, Jacquelin Plummer, Winston-Salem, N. C.: Woodrow Wilson.
37. Thomas, Franklin Anderson, Charlotte, N. C.: Woman Suffrage.
38. Wiley, John Davidson, Sparta, Ga.: The Negro Problem.
39. Wilson, Alexander Jr., Quincy, Fla.: The Lion's Breed.
40. Witherspoon, James Whitted, Greensboro, N. C.: The New Labor Party.
41. Inman, Audrey McGowan, York, S. C.: Our Navy Deserves Admiration.

WILDCATS DROP FIRST THREE (Continued from page 1)

Fouls: McCain 3, Hines 3, Davenport 1, Harrington 1.

V. P. I. Game, Feb. 15. The Wildcat quint played V. P. I. to a wonderfully close score. After a slow trip, the team arrived at 8 p.m. at Blacksburg and had to eat a light supper and dress almost immediately. In the first half, V. P. I. put in some second-string men, and the game was rather slow. Harrington had four shots to roll out of the basket. This half ended 5-5. In the second, the first team of V. P. I. were held almost to a standstill by the Red and Black five. With ten seconds in which to play, the score standing 18 to 17 in favor of V. P. I., one of their guards pulled off a long shot and the game ended 20-17. Schenck and Chalmers guarded in great style, while Harrington shot six goals.

Miss Reading, representing the "Everett Waddey Co.," did a thriving business here Friday.

Germany Does Not Keep Us From Delivering

SENSIBLE THE BEST FRESH MEAT

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White's Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

IF YOU SHOT HIM Come In and CELEBRATE
If You Got Shot Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT
Next to Pressing Club
CANDIES - DRINKS
COLLEGE JEWELRY
Watches & Clocks
Kodaks and Film and Developing
Be sure and see these when in the city
BELK BROTHERS

W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats
Frye & Gibson
At All Times

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.

We are receiving almost every day young men's New Spring Suits made in the newest models attractively priced at $18.50, 25.00, 27.50, 29.50

Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal on the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
I carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG CO.

BROWN’S
A STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
HIRSH WICKWIRE & BRANDEGEE KINCAID CLOTHING
The Rexall Store
DUNLAP & STETSON HATS
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
34 South Tryon Street