THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 13, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

Judge Boyd, Noted Alumnus, Retires From Office

Hon. James Boyd, After 19 Years Continuous Service as U. S. District Judge, Retires to Private Life

Davidson College has not a large number of alumni who have attained prominence in the field of law, and so it is with great pleasure that we read of the work and character of Hon. James E. Boyd, '66, who, on October 29, practically resigned his position as United States district judge of the Western district of North Carolina.

James Edmund Boyd was born in Alamance county and received his first schooling at Graham Academy, following this by a course at Davidson College. He served as a private in the Thirteenth N.C. Infantry and in the First N.C. Cavalry under the Confederacy. He was admitted to the North Carolina bar in 1868, and during a part of the period from 1870 to 1880 he was a member of the State Legislature and a delegate to the State Constitutional Convention. In 1880 he was made U.S. District Attorney in the Western North Carolina district, holding this position until 1885. From 1897 until 1900 he was Assistant Attorney General of the United States. He received his appointment as U.S. District Judge on July 11, 1900, which position he has held continuously, with honor to himself, since that date.

Judge Boyd passed his seventy-fourth birthday last February, and although he is beginning to show his age slightly from the physical viewpoint, yet mentally he is stronger than many men of fewer years. The resignation was something of a surprise to his friends, although many of them knew that the time for it could not be far off. He is retired under the...

Cupid Claims One of Our Students

Freshman Lewis Deserts College to Take Unto Himself a Better Half

C.W. Lewis, of the Freshman class, recently gave his friends on the campus a very severe jolt. On Thursday a week ago he went to his home in Greensboro, ostensibly on a very innocent little weekend trip. The rest of the college went calmly on about its work, in sublime ignorance that anything unusual was going on. But on Thursday last pandemonium broke loose. The Greensboro News had come, and it had printed an article in which it had announced, in plain black and white, that C.W. Lewis, our Lewis, mind you, was—was married!

People went about with consternation on their faces. Where would the next case break out? Who would the next victim be? Speculation was rife. When had it happened? Why had he thus deserted us?

It seems that Lewis and Miss Ida Hodgkin had been engaged ever since he went to France with the famous Thirtieth division. He had taken a course at A. & E., but he wanted a little academic work before settling down. However, when Lewis went home, he and his girl talked it over, and they decided, as young people will, that separation is the worst of all evils, and that the only sensible thing to do was to get married at once. So that is exactly what they did, last Wednesday evening.

Lewis came back to college Friday and took his things home. The young couple are living at 507 Walker Avenue, in Greensboro, where Lewis has secured an excellent position in an insurance company. The students of the college all unite in wishing him the best of success...

ATTENTION, ALUMNI — FELLOWSHIPS IN FRENCH UNIVERSITIES

Fellowships paying a thousand dollars a year each have been provided for 25 American college graduates who may wish to study in France. These fellowships will be distributed among the various universities of that country. They will be able to pursue graduate studies in any department desired, just as in American universities, or they may take medicine, law, engineering, or any of the professional branches.

The candidates for appointment must be able to read French books with facility, must submit application in due form, prior to January 1, and, if appointed, be ready to go to France in June and work on oral French until the universities open in September. A letter just received from the advisory board which selects the fellows gives assurance that graduates of colleges such as Davidson, if well qualified, have just as good a chance of appointment as graduates of larger institutions.

Any alumni of Davidson who are interested in this matter should communicate promptly with Prof. Thos. W. Lingle, who represents at Davidson the interests of the “Society for American Fellowships in French Universities.”

Alumni! Reunions! Commencement!

Begin Early to Plan for Reunions at Next Commencement

Which class is going to be the first to send into The Davidsonian an an...Announcement of their reunion? Begin to plan now for the biggest and best commencement in the history of Davidson. Your class is wanted with 100 per cent attendance. Davidson is in the midst of its best and greatest year yet known, and we want to make this commencement a grand and glorious occasion. You can help. Begin now.

L. C. Brand, ex-'19, is pursuing studies in medicine at the University of Virginia, in his married life. Karl Sherrill, '12, of Statesville, N.C., was married on October 29 to Miss Emma Lindsey, of Mt. Olive, N.C. F. L. Knight, ex-'19, is at the University of Virginia.

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Nov. 17, 18, and 19:
B. OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
F. PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
K. NELLIE and ERNEST VERONICA, Sojourning by the Sea.
CLIFF FRIEND, "The Song Writer," and ELEANOR LA VAN, "The Parisian Violinist."
A VAUDEVILLE SURPRISE.
BILLY ELLIOTT, A Corker in Cork.
LAMB'S MANIKINS, Tiny Stars from Toyland, for Kids from Six to Sixty.

Program Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 20, 21, and 22:
B. OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
F. PATHE NEWS—ROLAND COMEDY.
K. RUDINOFF, the Celebrated Versatile Artist, the Originator of Smoke Painting and the Whistling Act: "The Courtship of a Nightingale."
DOROTHY BRENNER, the Lady Dainty of Songland, in Exclusive Songs by Herbert Moore.
THE LOVE BUGS, a Farce with Music with Max Fehrmann, Jr.
The Man You All Know, JAMES B. DONOVAN (The King of Ireland) and MISS MARIE LEE (The Dancing Butterfly) in their Original Comedy, "DOING WELL, THANK YOU."
EARY and EARY in a Whirlwind Novelty.

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats:
You will find our stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear—the Best of Quality.
Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts
We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly.
MELLON’S
8, 10 WEST TRADE ST.

ENGRAVED Business and Social Stationery, Invitations, Announcements, Monograms. Holidays are nearing. Place your orders for Calling Cards and Social Stationery now so you will be sure of it then. W. A. Foil, Jr., of Davidson College is our representative.
Queen City Printing Company
14 and 16 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Drink PEPSI-COLA
Stimulating Exhilarating

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold