The DAVIDSONIAN, March 19, 1919

Meetings Full of Pep Over Jap Question
Japanese Aggression In China Must be Checked.

PROGRAM
Saturday night, March 22.
Query: Resolved, “That the R. O. T. C. should be continued permanently at Davidson, Philanthropic Society.
Affirmative: Negative:
Korncay, R. K. Dunlap, W. P.
Rogers, A. E. Brown, J. S.
Tufts, E. H. Caldwell, J. B.

Declamations: Thomas and Gaston, J.
Impromptu Debate:
Affirmative: Negative:
Lung, C. Dunlap, J. M.
Holmes Humphries

Eumenean Society,
Affirmative: Negative:
Jas. Sprunt H. C. Williamson
H. White R. Bitzer
L. I. Wilkerson J. M. McFadden

Declamations: Atkinson, S. M. Bailey, J. C.
Orations: A. Turner M., R. R. Craig

Eumenean Society.
The subject for debate last Saturday night was: “Resolved, That the Peace Conference should check Japanese aggression in China.” The
debate was unusually good and full of “pep,” and all men showed some preparation. Some of the speakers, especially Liston,
waxed eloquent at times. The affirmative, upheld by McIlwaine, McGukin, Ormand, A. C., and Liston, proved: First, that it is
contrary to the open door policy, which means that no nation shall go in and interfere with another nation. Second,
that it is contrary to the Peace League. Third, that every nation wants to maintain its national integrity. The negative,
upheld by Price, J. K., Richards, J. M., Ratchford, and Robson, C. B., argued: First, that as conditions now exist,
China is a liability to the world, but if Japan were allowed to go in, she would become an asset.
China is a very large and rich country, but her resources have not been developed. Second, that Japan, being a
highly educated and enlightened nation, is the right nation to intervene. Third, that Japan, because of her rapidly increasing population,
must expand somewhere.

C. B. Sanders rendered a very interesting declamation on “The Founders of Texas.” This was a very appropriate subject and
one in which he especially should be very interested in being a native of Texas himself. Summers rendered his declamation,
“A Eulogy on Abraham Lincoln,” in a very easy and forceful manner. Both these declamations were a credit to the
men.

Phi Society.
The Phi Society met Friday night. The speakers showed a thorough knowledge of the subject for debate. T. C. Stone
and R. D. Hall took the affirmative, while J. P. Poteat and E. N. Booker spoke for the negative. The
judges decided in favor of the affirmative. T. A. Alexander gave a good oration on Junior Speaking. The subject of
the extemporaneous debate was: “Resolved, That steam is more useful than electricity.” W. T. Dunlap represented the affirmative and won
over H. C. Hamilton, the negative contender.

Miss Prittikid—But, father, he is a man you can trust.
Her Pa—Gracious, girl! What I want is one I can borrow from.—Indianapolis Star.

THE NEW WATCH ON THE RHINE
On Friday, the 13th, in the fifth week of the armistice, the troops of the Allied armies crossed the Rhine
and so entered upon the last phase of occupation, says The Stars and Stripes, overseas journal for the American Expeditionary
Forces. Today, the sentries who guard its bridges and pace their posts within the shadow of the ancient castles are
not German soldiers. Poilus and Tommies and Yanks, these three—and it was the very best present to a tired, thankful
world—these three are keeping the watch on the Rhine.

It was just at dawn that the close-massed forces of the Third American Army moved forward in the dismal December
rain to take and hold the bridgehead that is theirs today. By four bridges and four ferries, they moved quietly
across the river, which is more beautiful than any our own country can show and which means more to Germany
than any American river can ever mean to us. The Rhine, for all its castle-crowned steps, for all its massive
and impotent fortresses, is more than a mere moat to guard the Fatherland. To the Germans, it is a river
of proud memories, the silver thread on which their history is strung, the link of lore and legend, the inspiration
of their songs, for which through countless generations its lisping waters have crooned a soft accompaniment.

And then, in the gray of a December morning, an American army moved across the German Rhine. For this great
hour in the history of the United States, many Americans were up and abroad an hour in advance of the
sun, though reveille meant nothing in their lives. Gray-haired staff officers, Salvation Army lassies, cooks from neighboring messes, couriers, artists,
war correspondents, they were all there waiting at the Coblenz pontoon—the Bridge of Boats—for the electric moment when the Rhine
bridges should give forth the music, the ever-recognizable, ever-stirring music of American infantry on the march. Yet they knew in
their hearts it would be what the French would regard as an indifferent show. They knew from long and gloomy
experience that the American Army simply refuses to be dramatic! They were right. There was no fuss and feathers, no
flourish of trumpets. There never is. On the stroke of seven, the first mounted men clatteredForward over the cobbles of
the quay say: the order "Forward March" sounded from post to post along the river front. It was raining and
there was scarcely enough light in the heavens to rival as yet the winking street lamps. Faintly silhouetted against the
gray sky were visible the great ramparts of Ehrenbreitstein and not far below, where the Moselle swings into the Rhine,
could be seen in sharp relief the stupendous statue of the first Wilhelm. This bridge—it was at the point where,
according to Rhineland legend, the lovely Riza walked upon the waters from shore to shore a thousand years ago—this bridge
was set aside for the First Brigade. It was the same brigade which, less than a year before, had, to
the intense and audible amusement of the German Army, modestly settled down in the American old home sector northwest of
Toul.

First came Major Paul Daly, of New York. He was on horseback and two mounted men followed close behind. Then,
if history must have the prosaic order of march, came Brigadier-General Frank Parker and some officers of his staff. Then
some French officers. Then a Y.M.C.A. girl in a fur coat carrying a bunch of cookies and—bless her for a
kind lady—several boxes of cigars. But the procession grew impressive enough as the doughboys tramped across: an endless column that
thumped ahead, deliberately oblivious to the beauties of the Rhine or the significance of the occasion, listening indignantly to the
patter of the rain on the helmets and wondering why the quartermaster had caught a cold. Close to the further
shore, the swaying, scarcely-distinguishable column of olive drab melted into the mist shrouding the scene. Not so the flag and
the standards, when their turn came to cross the Rhine. Always they shone bravely from shore to shore. It was
the one touch of color in all that drab and cheerless morning. From the moment when, midstream, the river wind
caught and spread them wide, till dwindling, dwindling they became only a point of scarlet in a curtain of mist,
like a poppy blooming in the cranny of a gray wall. And always, faintly from the other shore, came the
music of the band playing in the rain.

While the First Brigade, with ponderous trucks and smoking kitchens, moved over the pontoon, the Second Brigade was crossing by
the beautiful three-span Pfaffendorf bridge nearby. Below, the famous Thirty-second was crossing and below them the Second. While above, the
Third had edged up already a bit, toward Bingen. For this crossing, the troops had been massing on the left
bank since the preceding Sunday, when the first cavalry trotted into Remagen and the first infantry on a whole trainload
of affable doughboys arrived in Coblenz. In their sector of the Rhine, certain were the Yankees feel quite at home.
They were sternly forbidden to wander out of it, for the various bridgeheads were kept as severely separate as watertight
apartments, but the outposts could not help meeting occasionally, and on Thursday of last week, unwittingly like our own, matched
into Bonn, the Yanks discovered, to their great delight, that their neighbors below stream were the Canadians. The exchange of
courtesies would run something like this:

"Cheer-o Konda, the Second."
"Is that so? So's this."
"The Second American? Well, say, from what they tell us."
"Well, say, where's the First?"
"What division?"
"Some division. British? Oh, the Imperial. Downstream somewhere."
"What's your main town?"
"Bonn."
"What kind of a place?"
"Pitts."
"How are things going?"
"Lovely. Just lovely. Couldn't be better if we were home in the States."
"Home in the States? Get that stuff?"
"Oh, well, I'm from Iowa myself. Half of us are Americans."
"The—you say. Then, why didn’t you come over in our Army?"
"Because it didn't come over soon enough."

A thoughtful silence for a while. Then:
"Well, see you in Iowa."
"Right-o."

Thus it befell that Canada and America crossed the Rhine shoulder to shoulder. Now the Stars and Stripes float from
the skyline flagpole of Ehrenbreitstein. Ehrenbreitstein sounds rather like the name of some cloak and suit house in New York,
but it is really a fortress so formidable that it is called the Gibraltar of the Rhine. If when they
began to fashion it just after Waterloo, any prophetic soul had told the powers that were that a century later
its garrison would echo to the tread of soldiers from the absurd, little sapling republic across the sea...

(Continued on page)

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

DON'T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co.
The South’s Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
N. BOONER, Agt.

Latest Dope From Peace Conference

Your Nation is judged by its representative. Your representative is judged by his appearance. His appearance is judged from his
clothes. Get that Storrs-Schaefer Look—and nifty.

GILBERT & McARN
REPRESENTATIVES
No. 13 CHAMBERS
