ALUMNI NOTES

Lieut. C. R. Wilcox, ‘11, who has been in France in the field artillery, will be back at McCallie next
year.

Lieut. W. Proctor McElroy, ex-'11, has just returned from France, where he was chaplain of the 105th Engineers.

Major W. G. Somerville, ex-'15, who is attending Union Theological Seminary, will be on the Hill the second week in
May to confer with candidates and prospective candidates for the ministry.

S. H. Kerr, ex-'13, of Catonsville, Md., has recently moved to Mississippi, where he will take up farming. He has
been an instructor in aviation in the American Army in Italy.

Sergeant A. S. Taylor, Jr., ‘11, of Winston-Salem, is back from France, where he has been with Dr. Brenizer's Hospital
Unit, Unit O.

Mr. Porter Vinson, ‘09, of the Mayo Hospital staff, after several months of service in Italy, reached Davidson on Tuesday
to visit his mother, Mrs. W. D. Vinson.

Prof. J. W. Pratt, of the English Department at the Naval Academy, class of 1908, will be married to Miss
Louise Williamson, of Asheville, N. C., in June.

Dr. Davidson Douglass, ‘90, of Chester, S. C., and his wife, ‘95, spent the weekend at Davidson. Dr. Douglass is
president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. Messrs. R. I. and D. M. Douglass are brothers of Professors J.
M. and J. L. Douglass.

Rev. R. A. Brown, ‘92, of Waycross, Ga., has moved to Fort Smith, Arkansas, where he will be Evangelist for
the Synods of Arkansas and Oklahoma. Mr. Brown's work at Waycross was markedly successful, his church having grown from 36
to 700 members.

Mr. Fred Hay, ‘14, spent Sunday in the town with relatives and friends.

Rev. John McSween, ‘08, will preach the Baccalaureate sermon at the coming commencement of the A. & E. College in
Raleigh. Mr. McSween has just returned from France, where his chaplaincy was an outstanding one.

There are plans underway to widen the scope of the Alumni Athletic Association. It is hoped that these plans will
be effected during commencement.

The following extract will be read with interest by “Dutch's” many friends:

Made Lucky Strike

It is beginning to look as if President Allen made a lucky strike when he signed Pitcher “Dutch” Hengeveld for
pitching assignments for the 1919 Travelers. The big collegian was given a good boost a few days ago by an
Atlanta scribe. The Cracker writer said that it has been a mystery why the big college pitcher had not been
nabbed by some club a year or two ago. It is not a mystery, for “Prexy” Allen tried to sign
him and he would not consent to playing professional baseball then for fear of ruining his college athletic standing. The
Atlanta journalist went on to say that Hengeveld was a very promising youngster, having pitched in Atlanta for Davidson College
against Georgia Tech University. He said that Hengeveld was a big fellow, weighing in the neighborhood of 185 pounds and
standing slightly over six feet in height. The notice from Atlanta went on to say that Mike Finn, former Chattanooga
manager and Detroit scout and now manager of the San Antonio club of the Texas League, made several trips to
the Carolina school for the purpose of signing the Davidson College hurler.

O. J. Thies, Jr., '18, of Charlotte, N. C., was on the Hill Tuesday of last week. He has recently
received his discharge from the chemistry service of the U.S. Army.

Boyd H. Leyburn, ex-’20, is farming near Staunton, Va.

DEATH OF ALUMNUS

An announcement that will bring sadness to alumni is the announcement of the death of Mr. Burr A. Ragsdale, ‘71,
which occurred at the residence of his daughter, Mrs. W. DeK. Wylie, at Richburg, S. C., on Monday, April 21.
Funeral services were conducted by Rev. R. Roy Brown at the Concord Presby-Chester, S. C. Major Walker Moore, '06, and
Joe P. Moore, '11, will be over for a while longer at the central Lab. at Dijon. Lex Kluttz, ex-'15,
is at the University of Edinburgh under the Army School arrangement.

William Love, ex-'20, is still with the American Expeditionary Force. His present address is Co. A., 13th Marines, A.P.O. 705
A.E.F.

PHOTO FINISHING
R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING
R. S. Johnson Co.

R. H. Stone, '18, was on the Hill Monday afternoon. He has received his discharge from the Army and was
on his way home. Before receiving his discharge Stone was 1st Sergt. in the Depot Brigade at Camp Jackson.

Relatives of S. C. Hart, '12, of Mooresville, have been informed that he has been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.
As he was killed in battle the cross will be given to his mother. Hart repeatedly showed conspicuous bravery on
the battlefield while under fire. Once he and one other member of his company, armed with an automatic rifle, were
pressing on in front of the company in the face of heavy artillery fire. He was wounded in the arm
and ordered to retire; but instead of retiring continued to advance and was later killed. Hart was a cousin to
O. P. Hart, '19.

Lieut. W. J. Roddey, Jr., ex-'14, has received his discharge from Fort McPherson and has returned to his home in
Rock Hill, S.C.

Lieut. Roddey made quite a distinguished record while in service. He received five shell wounds in October while (Continued on
Page 8)

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT
Uniforms, Caps, Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Balls, Gloves, Masks, Etc.
Catalogue on request
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

"Skirt Model Suits"
Just received 100 new Skirt Model Suits in plain blue, brown and green, also fancy patterns marked special at $19.50,
$25.00, $27.50 and $29.50.
WE SELL IT FOR LESS
BELK BROTHERS

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

The following is an extract taken from a letter written from Base Hospital 69, A.P.O. 939, by Maj. J. W.
MacConnell, dated April 8th, 1919:

The following are Davidson men I've seen:

J. N. Penick, ex-'20, 148th Inf., 36th Div. Saw him here at Sovenay. He had been operated on and was
going back to his outfit. He was wearing a moustache and it was with difficulty that I recognized him. He
did not know me at all.

Zed Crawford, '13, I saw at Brest. He is an ensign, commanding a sub-chaser. He had been stationed at Aberdeen
and Edinburgh, his bases. His boat sank a German sub, with depth bombs.

I saw L. J. Whitehead, First Lieut. M.C., en route home with B.H. 19.

I saw Claude C. Kelly, '09, First Lieut. M.C., B.H. 42, at Brest en route home. He had served up
front.

I ran across Carlisle Moon, ex-'15, yesterday, B.H. 34. He was entraining for the docks. He has made good as
a lab assistant. At the same time yesterday I saw Lee Hall marching under his pack—didn't have a chance to
speak to him.
