Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

With the Alumni

“BOB” WALKER WINS FRENCH HONORS

The friends of Lieut. Robert B. Walker, ex-'18, will be greatly pleased to learn of the distinction conferred upon him
by the French government when he was recently decorated with the Medaille d’Honneur of the ministry of war for bravery
in action. Lieutenant Walker is well known, not only by present students and alumni, but throughout the Southeast, for his
prowess on the gridiron. From his first game in 1915, when “Bob” ran across South Carolina's goal line with the
needed touchdown until his last game, with Wake Forest, Thanksgiving, 1917, he played a star game at left end. He
was elected captain of the football team for the fall of 1918; but when the call to arms came in
the spring of 1917, “Bob” donned the khaki and shouldered the gun as a private. After going to France he
attended an officer's training camp and received a commission in the Ambulance Corps. His brother, Capt. C. L. Walker, '17,
who also played a stellar role for Davidson teams in the backfield at “half” and “full,” is with the Army
of Occupation in Germany.

LIEUT. RODDY WINS “CROIX DE GUERRE”

Friends of Lieut. W. J. Roddy, ex-'17, will be glad to hear that he has been awarded the Croix de
Guerre for distinguished bravery while in service in France. Roddy spent only two years at Davidson, but while here he
was very influential among his fellow students. He left Davidson and went to Princeton, where he graduated. When war was
declared he was sent to Camp Oglethorpe, where he received his commission as first lieutenant. He was wounded several times
in France, but has about recovered from them.

Lieut. E. R. Campbell, '14, was seriously gassed on November 10, 1918, and is now in a Paris hospital.

LIEUT. GILCHRIST CITED

The friends throughout the State of Lieut. Stuart Gilchrist, '16, will be interested to know that he has been cited
for extraordinary devotion to duty. Lieutenant Gilchrist was with the 109th Aero Squadron and was overseas for about a year.
He returned to his home in Charlotte two weeks ago. Lieutenant Gilchrist graduated from Davidson College in 1916, and was
one of the most popular young men in college. He received his military training at the first officers’ training school
at Fort Oglethorpe, and was stationed at Camp Jackson. Later he was in training at Fort Sill, Okla.

“WHO’S WHO" ON OUR SERVICE FLAG

Maj. Robt. B. Hill was graduated from Davidson in 1910. He returned the following year and took the M.A. course,
also acting as assistant in chemistry. Then going to the University of Maryland, he received the degree of M.D. in
1915. After receiving his doctor's degree he went to Washington, D. C., and took the Army and Navy “School” training.
In January, 1907, he was commissioned first lieutenant in the Medical Corps of the Army. Seven months of a busy
life on the Mexican border followed. In September, 1917, he was...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.sent overseas. Showing marked organizing and executive ability,
he was best located and therefore most capable of exercising control over these colonies. She has the navy of Great
Britain to assist her. The negative contended that Japan was more able to handle the situation, and Australia was still
too undeveloped to be entrusted with this task. The judges decided two in favor of the affirmative. D.C. Stayner gave
an oration on Zionism which was of merit. The critics gave a review of the past term's work and declared
it as having been above the average. The freshmen have been active and are taking interest in the meetings. The
president-elect, W. M. Currie, was next inaugurated into office. He gave an informal address in which he announced the preliminary
of the inter-collegiate debate to be held March 14, the subject of which is, "Resolved, That the U.S. should adopt
the proposed League of Nations." No meeting will be held this Saturday on account of Junior Speaking.

Eumenean Society. On account of the election of officers, the Eumenean Society suspended the regular exercises last Saturday night. The
election came off without any second ballots, with the following results: E. A. Woods, president; W. B. Sullivan, vice-president; R.
M. McPheeters, secretary; and A. R. Craig, reviewer. The society was glad to have with it two alumni members, Lieut.
T. J. Mitchell and Rev. V. F. Allen, each of whom gave a short talk on society work.

WORLD FORUM ORGANIZED. Last Thursday night a few men went with Mr. Miles down to his room at the gym
and definite plans were made for the World Forum. A temporary set of officers were chosen: B. G. Calhoun, President;
A. R. Craig, Vice President; D. W. Roberts, Secretary. The meetings are to be held every Thursday night at 7:30.
The discussions are to be based on a book by J. Lovell Murray, the educational secretary of the Student Volunteer
Movement. It is "The Call of a World Task." Some of the topics which will be discussed are "The Call
for a World Program in the Church," "The Call of the World's Present Need," and "The Call for a Full
Mobilization of Christian Forces." All who are interested in these subjects are cordially invited to the next meeting, when "The
Call for Reality in Religious Life" will be the subject.

He was seated in the parlor, And he said unto the light, "Either you or I, old fellow, Will be
turned down tonight." —Cornell Widow.

soon promoted to the rank of captain and later to that of major. Major Hill is now in charge of
a big hospital at Coblenz, Germany.

March 5, 1919

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics
We hope to have the opportunity of showing you

EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR

ED. MELLON CO.

See me if you are looking for the very BEST HOME MADE CAKES, PIES, CANDY & SANDWICHES CIGARS, CIGARETTES, CHEWING
GUM & COLD DRINKS

GEO. H. BEALL, JR.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS BALLS, MITS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES

Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS

L. B. LONG

HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold
