THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1919

R. O. T. C. INSPECTOR PLEASED
(Continued from page 1)

surprised. The battalion, he stated, made a better showing than units of any strictly civilian institution he had yet visited, being better than many units at schools which are strictly military. He concluded his talk with these words, “You have a ‘go-getter’ for a commandant. Get behind him and you will accomplish great things.”

Rev. W. H. Mills, '92, has been instructor in Rural Economics and Sociology in the Department of Agriculture in the A. E. F. University. Mr. Mills is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Clemson College, and is an authority on rural religious and economic problems.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

“Overcoats”
Another shipment of young men’s Overcoats in the very latest models at $25.00, $29.50, $39.50 and $49.50.
Belk Brothers

The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY
16 Chambers

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

SENIOR SPEAKING SPECIAL.
How Senior Speeches Are Written.

Spring of 1919: Prominent Senior decides that he will begin work on his Senior Oration with the opening of the fall term.

August 21: Reaffirms his decision.

Opening of college: He decides, for the second time, that he has too many duties connected with welcoming Fresh, etc., to exert himself in connection with things oratorical.

Oct. 15: Awakes to realization that something must be done; rushes to library and gets all the literature possible on subjects ranging from Watchful Waiting to Waitful Watching.

Nov. 15 1-2: Returns to room and dumps already mentioned printed stuff into closet.

Nov. 16 to 20: Takes trip off hill.

Nov. 17: Would have slept through Chapel except for the fact that he was not on the hill.

Nov. 18: Returns to hill—for minutes in flivver.

Nov. 21: Finds correspondence piled up on return and takes two days off to answer it. Also has to study 15 minutes and this consumes valuable time.

Nov. 24: Writes speech.

Nov. 25, 26, 27: Does not memorize speech.

Who's Who in the Forum.

The Show opens on the afternoon of Friday, Nov. 28, at some two hours before sunset, which occurs at 4:54 (p.m.). Among those selected from the class of '20 to represent her on this festive occasion some stand forth above their fellows by virtue of the things which have been done unto them. For your consideration we present:

R. T. Allison, '20's opening gun who rightfully leads us in this our crisis with Our Flag. Askew and Black both appear to have planned speeches on different plans. Boney goes out to sea with The Merchant Marine while Booker settles down to Intensive Farming. Brown’s address should be replete with patriotism, afterwhich Calhoun will speak on Justice, probably for the members of the band who precede him with music. The allotted ten minutes fails to satisfy Carwile who requires Infinity and Cathey goes up in Smoke. Chalmers joins in the chase of The Girl We All Are After, while Craig gesticulates on College Athletics. Douglas comes just before “music” with Southern Literature. We might tell of all the speakers but after you've heard the first assortment, you can’t be kept away. Curiosity was ever an impelling motive.

The saddest thing that I can think of,
As on that stage I am a-puffing;
The bitterest cup that I can drink of,
Is just to think, and think of nothing.

Instead of that late selection from the band, why not: “Everyone is writing speeches now in Georgia.” When you forget (If you do forget) listen to this hint for you'll need it. The thing to do (When you forget) is to take out your speech and read it. Except for the fact that we are not dealing in tragedy we would run a sequel to How Senior Speeches are written, entitled How Senior Speeches are spoken. Liston announces that he has the pages of his oration mixed up and can’t tell that our blood is too pure to be mingled with the inferior tide now pouring in, that the source and quality of immigrants have changed, that we have not assimilated the immigrants already here, and that this law would give us a chance to catch our breath.

J. M. Dunlap, the last affirmative speaker, upheld that the prohibition of immigration for five years is the proper step to take in dealing with the problem. He showed that the immigrants are a hothouse for anarchy and bolshevism, and unless a check is put on, there will be an overwhelming tide of them after peace is declared. The first speaker for the negative was A. M. Mitchell. He stated that the fundamental questions to be argued were first, Is a revision of immigration laws necessary, and second, If necessary, would the plan proposed be the best. Mitchell said that this was the land of freedom for the oppressed, and only selfishness would make us change our policy. Such a law would be extremely difficult to put into actual practice. Ormond held that prohibition of immigration would be the cause of unforeseen troubles and bad feeling from other nations. He showed that immigration has been and is beneficial to the country in many ways. Liston, the last speaker on the negative, reasoned that immigrants are in a state of social evolution, and immigration has caused a cosmopolitan broadness in the American unequaled by any people. He concluded by showing that the world war has demonstrated the loyalty to American ideals of the wrongly maligned immigrants.

Who’s Who and Why?
Of the 9,643 most successful men in the United States whose biographies are given in “Who’s Who in America,” 6,711 are college graduates, 965 attended college for a time, 889 graduated from academies or normal schools, 239 stopped with a high school training, 808 attended only common schools and 31 were self-educated—The Lowrencian.

Trip Planned
The Band will go to Rock Hill, Wednesday night, returning to the Hill Friday evening. Automobiles have been provided to take them from Charlotte to Rock Hill. Mr. R. E. Mell, who led the singing at our recent evangelistic services, is the community “Y” secretary there and was influential in getting this trip for the band. Mr. W. J. Roddey, Jr., is in charge of the transportation and entertainment. He and other Alumni will look after the accommodations. Owing to limited transportation facilities, only eighteen men will be taken. The band is to furnish the music for a community Thanksgiving service held under the auspices of the Ministerial Union, the Y. M. C. A., and the Federation of Men’s Bible Classes. On Thanksgiving night a reception for the band will be given by the Winthrop College girls.

Automobiles may be the poetry of motion—until something busts—then it’s blank verse.

LOTS OF GO AND PEP in our new Fall fashions. Speed up and get your pick early. No trouble about selling goods this season—the only problem is to keep our lines full, to get the good stuff we've ordered. Buy now and you will have no regrets.

PLAY TENNIS WITH Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY
We print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this newspaper to describe them---but we have room for all your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643