MEMORIAL ISSUE

SONIAN

Short Sketches of Davidson Men Who Gave Their All

S. C. Hart

S. C. Hart, '12, of Mt. Ulla, N.C., was one of those quiet men "liked best by those who know
them best," which always indicates reserve strength and potential power. Hart, aside from taking an interest in social matters, was
an ardent supporter of class football. He also did his full share in helping the Scrub football team. On the
28th of November, the report came in that Hart had been killed in action during the American offensive in October.

R. D. Cranford

That part of the casualty list that probably causes the most anxiety of all is that list of names which
are reported—"missing." R. D. Cranford, ex-'19, of Davidson, N.C., is included among this number. Reed was in college but two
years, but in that time formed many close friendships among the fellows. He was a man of unusual musical ability
and was a mainstay of the Glee Club while here. Since being in France, Cranford seemed to have realized most
vividly the war aims of the Allies, and was able to express himself so realistically that the New York papers
published several of his letters as containing an unusually clear statement of what we were striving to bring about in
the war. He is remembered fondly by all the people of Davidson and many of the students of the upper
classes, all of whom regret to hear that he is still missing and look forward yet to the faint gleam
of hope that he is still safe.

Lieut. Frank Thompson

Once more we have proof that some of the best fighters are produced in the college athlete. Lieut. Frank Thompson,
ex-'08, of Raleigh, N.C., attended Davidson only one year; but in that short time made many warm friends here and
left a record of which he could justly be proud. "Bull" was a born athlete and was a strong factor
both on the gridiron and diamond, winning his "D" in both football and baseball his first year. After leaving Davidson,
Thompson was head coach of football and baseball at A. & E., and later filled the same position for two
years at Wake Forest, being extremely popular at both colleges.

The Davidsonian gratefully wishes to acknowledge a gift of one hundred dollars ($100) from one of Davidson’s most loyal alumni.
At the donor's request, we do not publish his name, but this generosity goes to show that Davidson spirit and
loyalty is often more substantial than mere sentiment.

To the Memory of the Davidson Men Who Have Made the Supreme Sacrifice

J. S. Bachman, '18.
P. R. Brown, ex-'06.
L. Bulla, '07.
R. D. Cranford, ex-'19, (missing).
J. M. Douglas, '10.
S. C. Hart, '12.
S. R. Keesler, Jr. '17.
C. D. Montgomery, '09.
T. N. Morton, '18.
D. M. Orgain, '18.
J. C. Paisley, '07.
R. D. Poole, ex-'19.
J. D. Shaw, '15.
H. K. Shaw, ex-'08.
T. E. Smith, '10.
Frank Thompson, ex-'08.
J. M. Wearn, ex-'19.

DEAD

Blow out, you bugles, over the rich Dead!
There's none of these so lonely and poor of old,
But, dying, has made us rarer gifts than gold.
These laid the world away; poured out the red
Sweet wine of youth; gave up the years to be
Of work and joy, and that unhoped serene
That men call age; and those who would have been,
Their sons, they gave, their immortality.

Blow, bugles, blow! They brought us, for our dearth
Holiness lacked so long, and Love, and Pain.
Honor has come back, as a king, to earth,
And paid his subjects with a royal wage;
And Nobleness walks in our ways again;
And we have come into our heritage.

—Rupert Brooke

Many hearts were saddened when they...the only one of the 107 ministers heard that Lieutenant Thompsen had made the supreme
sacrifice in going over No Man's Land on September 13, 1918. Chaplain T. M. Bulla Just a few days prior
to the signing of the armistice, word was received through the War Department announcing the death of Chaplain T. M.
Bulla. Chaplain Bulla was a Davidson graduate of the class of 1907, and immediately after his graduation entered the Union
Theological Seminary. It was while he was pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Emporia, Va., that he entered the service
of his country. He was attached to the Hospital Corps of the 116th Infantry and was serving in this capacity
in France when he was killed by shrapnel. He was the only one from Union Seminary known to have been
killed. Chaplain Bulla’s home was in Taylorsville, N.C.

Lieut. C. D. Montgomery
Lieut. C.D. Montgomery, ‘09, was killed in action in France on the 15th of (Continued on page 4)

LEST WE FORGET
The tumult and the shouting dies—
The captains and the kings depart—
Still stands thine ancient sacrifice,
An humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet
Lest we forget—lest we forget.
—R. Kipling.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FEBRUARY 5, 1919.

Our Roll of Honor No. 14

Chance to Contribute to Wm. P. Parker Fund
Campaign for Six Hundred Dollars Begins This Week.

It is not well known among the new students that Davidson College contributes $500 a year to the support of
Mr. William P. Parker, a missionary in Pyongyang, Korea. It is customary to contribute to his support by monthly payments.
This is the only opportunity Davidson men have to show their interest in foreign missions, and 100 percent of the
student body should contribute to so necessary and vital a work. The custom has prevailed formerly of collecting for nine
months a year, but this year collections will be made for five months only. By a little simple calculation, you
can easily figure that this means you ought to double what you have formerly given. Every man on Davidson campus
ought to give the minimum of 50 cents per month to support this work. As Dr. Arbuckle asked last Sunday
night at the “Y” meeting, “Are you keeping the faith?” Davidson is not a college that will fall down on
her pledge, and we are all proud of it. The Parker Fund will go over the top and score a
big success if you do your share. Will you?

Mr. Parker is a graduate of Davidson College and ranked among the leaders of his class. It is a fortunate
circumstance that Davidson is called upon to support one of her own sons in this great work. The campaign will
be made some night this week and the question for each man to decide is, “How much can I give?”
S. M. Gilbert will have charge of the campaign.

First Basketball Game Next Friday Night
First Half of Season’s Schedule Is Announced by Manager.

The Varsity basketball squad has been picked and it has buckled down to hard practice. For a week, the chosen
eighteen have spent every night in snappy workouts at the Gym and team work is progressing rapidly. The greatest part
of the coaching is in the hands of “Bob” Miles, while Coach Fetzer is keeping the men in training. Getting
a later start than the rest of the colleges, the men are playing hard and keeping in good trim to
turn out a team that will play together. McAskill is back, and around this star guard of last year’s quint
the team will be shaped. He is feeling and looking fine and is ready to jump right into the fray.
There is a strong possibility that he will be shifted to center this year because of his height. Davenport and
“Dave” Hall (Continued on page 3) have
