2. The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

Editorial Board:
E. A. Woods........Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers...Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts.......Assignment Editor
S. T. McCloy........Alumni Editor
B. E. Shields........Athletic Editor

The Staff:
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. F. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Craig
K. G. Lilly
Emery Flynn
W. M. Currie

Management:
T. C. Stones........Business Manager
K. A. Parker.......Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander...Assistant Manager
C. J. Matthews.....Assistant Manager
J. P. Price...........Assistant Manager

Reporters for this issue are:
R. L. Rea, M. C. Hwaine, C. A. McGirt, J. P. Price, B. R. Breitenhirt, C. E. Cunningham, W. W.
Moore, B. H. Denny, W. P. Cumming, J. B. Clark, A. L. Wilson, C. Howell, V. H. Spence, J. A.
Gaston, and A. R. Doubles.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

REAR IT HAS THRU.

The magazine has been a lame subject for several years. Somehow it has not received the interest and support the
other publications have been accorded by the student body, and as a consequence has depended on the work of a
small group of men each successive year for existence. Since it has been taken out of the hands of the
Literary Societies and made a student body institution, it has been hard put to it for subsistence, financial and literary.

Any man who will look at it from an impartial point of view must admit that a magazine is necessary
to an all-round college. You may smile, but it is a fact that there ought to be some channel through
which those boys who are interested may give vent to the expression of their literary ability, of whatever degree it
may be, and through which they may develop themselves in that line, if they so desire.

A number of solutions have been offered which would strengthen the magazine, but probably the best is to put it
under the care of the Junior Class, just as the Annual is under the care of the Senior class. A
class would elect its editor and manager in the spring of their Sophomore year, who would take charge the following
year. A number of colleges observe this custom with marked success, and it is reasonable to believe that it could
be done at Davidson with equal success.

AFTER DAVIDSON — THEN WHAT?

You're not going to stay at Davidson forever. This may seem a foolish statement, and yet the average college man
goes about his campus life as if he expected to. You ask a Senior: “What are you going to do
next year?” He answers: “Don't know. Wish I knew. Guess I'll knock around a year or two till I fall
into some profession.” Ask the average underclassman: “What do you expect to do when you leave college?" He answers: “Don't
know. Never thought about it much. Wait till I get through college and I'll tell you.” “Sufficient unto the day,”
is his philosophy of college life.

Over a third of the Davidson student body are undecided as to their life work. And many of those who
have chosen professions drift along with no very definite end in view. It would seem that the average student can't
see beyond his commencement. He seems to have the idea that his life destiny depends only on what he is
and what he does in college. He is as if on the rim of a cup, always looking inward at
his present college career, but giving hardly a glance to the far more important world beyond. He allows himself to
take his successes and failures on the campus often as seriously as if he considered them the climax of achievement
or failure. It is not the achievement or failure in college which affects a man's later life, but the experience
and knowledge gained through that achievement or failure.

Tell him what you were and did in college, and you will more than likely lose your job. He doesn't
care a snap who you were or what you belonged to. All he considers is what you know and what
you can do now. The student need not participate in or enjoy his college life the less by thinking of
the morrow. And the man who knows what he is going to do in life and realizes that there is
something far more important to follow his four years of college, not only has a stimulus but a guide to
map out his course and direct his campus activities.

NOTICE TO ALUMNI.

Commencement is three months off and it is time the reunions were being planned. We would like to state that
The Davidsonian is gladly at your service. Let us help you get your class in touch with one another.another by
publishing notices and letters. We're expecting big reunions of several classes this commencement, and every man in the classes of
multiples of fives running back from thirty should, if possible, be present. Let us publish your announcements.

NOTICE: Initial payments on the United War Work subscriptions are due before March 5. Are you falling down on the
proposition? It's easy to pledge a gift, but fulfilling the pledge is another thing. What are you going to do
about it?

The following letter is self-explanatory:

February 24, 1919.
Mr. S. M. Gilbert,
Business Manager, Annual, Davidson, N.C.

Dear Mr. Gilbert:
Pursuant to our conversation a few days ago, I write to say that we have heard definitely from the War
Department that the government will not approve for payment the Campus Tax or Blanket Fee, listed as a part of
our Tuition Charges for the S.A.T.C. students. This means, of course, that the ex-S.A.T.C. students, like the men registering for
the spring term, will have to pay extra the $1.00 apportionment for the Annual from the fall term Blanket Fee
to put them on equal footing with the regular students.

Very truly yours,
F. I. Jackson,
Treasurer.

LIBRARY NEWS

Among the books recently given to the Library are the following for the Political Economy department: Source Book of Economics,
Fetter; Economics and Industrial History, Thurston; Outline of Economics; Selected Readings in Economics, Bullock; Elementary Principles of Economics, Ely and
Wicker; Principles of Economics, Fetter.

Interesting News of Commandant’s Life

Gentlemen, When in Need of Tonsorial Work, Give Us a Trial
At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Has Served in the Philippines for Several Years.

All are much interested in the commandant of the R.O.T.C., Lieutenant-Colonel Mueller. For information about his past military experience, he
has been kind enough to submit the following:

He entered West Point as a cadet on June 17, 1897, and graduated and was honorably discharged on June 7,
1901. He was a private, then a corporal in Troop G, Second Cavalry, March 5, 1902, to October 26, 1902.
He was appointed second lieutenant on October 17 and accepted his commission on October 26, 1902. He served in the
Philippine Islands from May 1905 to May 1907, and again from 1911 to 1913 inclusive. His first lieutenant’s commission was
accepted on March 1, 1911. He became captain on July 1, 1916, was raised to major on July 1, 1917,
and was made lieutenant-colonel on August 10, 1918. He was a graduate of the School of Application for Field Artillery
at Fort Worth, Kansas, in 1905. He served with the Eighth Cavalry from December 1902 to October 1909, and was
with the Tenth Cavalry at Fort Huachuca, Noco, Ariz., during 1915. So most of his experience has been with that
branch rather than infantry. From January 1910 to July 1918, he was on general recruiting service in Colorado, and served
with the Seventh Cavalry from July 1 to August 10, 1918. On August 18, 1918, he was assigned to the
Seventeenth Division as division machine gun officer and at Camp Beauregard, La., until January 16, 1919. He pursued the special
course for field officers in machine gunnery at Camp Hancock, Ga., in September and October 1918, and was in the
special staff class at the War College, Washington, D.C., in November 1918. So Lieutenant-Colonel Mueller has a fine military career
behind him, and we expect to find him a most able and efficient commandant here at Davidson.

Next to Post Office

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB IS LED BY WOODS

On last Wednesday night, the Blue Pencil Club held its regular meeting. The subject for discussion, "Edgar Allan Poe," was
led by Edgar Allan Woods, who dealt with the important characteristics and eccentricities of Poe's life. Mr. R. W. Miles
was initiated into the club, after which light refreshments were served, much to the delight of all present.

Rembrandt Studio
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
WILL CONVINCE YOU
27 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office
O. J. RADER, Proprietor

TYPEWRITING
A. P. ORMOND

We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are
Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

We Knock the Spots Out
The Charlotte Steam Laundry
KEY and McCASKILL, Agts.

We'll get 'em on Monday Nights

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.
