Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1919

Attractive Rest Room In Gym for Visitors Com. Everyone is Cordially Invited to See this Room. Write Your Friends.

Mr. Miles has planned to fix up the large room just to the left on entering the Gym, as a
reception room for visitors during commencement. This is an excellent idea, as it will give everyone a place where he
can entertain his friends and relatives. The room will be beautifully decorated and made very attractive. The piano will be
put in there, a new Victrola is on the way, comfortable chairs will be provided, and beautiful rugs will be
placed on the floor. If you like to play “checks” there will be plenty of boards. Invite your friends to
come up for commencement and use this room whenever you like. Mr. Miles expects to make this a permanent place
for rest and loafing for the students next year.

GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB MEETS

The first regular meeting of the Greater Davidson Club was called by President Miller Saturday morning after chapel. We were
fortunate to secure Coach Fetzer to make a short talk, explaining how the club can benefit athletics in the college.
The schedule of the different teams put out by this college is as hard if not harder than that of
any College or University in the South. In football, especially is this true. Under these conditions and considering the size
of the student body, the stand made is remarkable. A good fighting team can always be made from the material
on hand, but this is not sufficient. To maintain our high standing it is necessary to have more good athletes
and this is where the club can effectively serve the college. Let every man who goes out from here this
year find a good football, baseball, basketball, or track man and get him lined up for next year. If you
are unable to definitely persuade him, send his name in to Mr. Miles or Coach Fetzer and they will help.
Every college and university in this section is planning a revival in athletics and we are not going to be
behind. Everybody get out and work to get the men here and the rest will be taken care of.

ALUMNI, THE “Y” WILL BE WAITING FOR YOU, MAY 24-27.

The Y. M. C. A. is to install an information bureau at the station and as you alight in Davidson
a reception committee will attend to your baggage and room. Don’t worry. Come with a smile.

VICTORY LOAN CAMPAIGN.

The Government has instituted competitive Victory Loan Campaigns throughout the country among the various R. O. T. C. organizations. To
the ten colleges getting the highest number of subscriptions there will be some special form of recognition extended. It is
not necessary that the subscription be subscribed by the student—but he is privileged to solicit from his friends and people
in the local community. It is immaterial how and where the bonds may be solicited. This campaign of ours does
not in any way affect the credit of the local bank's credit or any other campaign in the community. The
bonds actually purchased by this organization or solicited by its members will be purchased through the Davidson Bank, not only
giving the bank credit, but the community campaign, the county, and state. The following has been subscribed and solicited by
the members of the Davidson R. O. T. C.:

Lt. Col. A. E. Mueller...............$100.00
Sergt. O'Connell.......................50.00
Sergt. Carroll............................50.00
The Davidsonian.....................50.00
W. M. Hall.................................50.00
C. J. Matthews.........................50.00
J. R. Boulware..........................50.00
M. A. Tremain..........................50.00
T. H. Patterson........................50.00
J. E. Sanders............................50.00

---AL Turner 50.00 Solicited by students in town, $24,250.00. Total subscribed to date, $24,850. The contest closes the 10th of
this month. Let’s get behind this campaign and put the Davidson unit “Over the Top” with a 100 per cent
efficiency. If you can’t subscribe, find someone that can and solicit his subscription for the Davidson R. O. T. C.

VARSITY CAN WIN A GAME SOMETIMES

In a rather one-sided game, the varsity beat the all-star class team 10-1. There were no spectacular plays on either
side with the exception of “Pat” Robson's pretty stop in the third inning. “String Bean” McAskill shone with the stick,
but the less said about his base stealing, the better. Cathey did valiant work in the box, striking out Capt.
Boswell three times and “Railroad” Clark once. Miley, pitching for the varsity, was relieved by Clarke, who was hit hard
and freely. Ratchford did the best batting for the varsity, getting three hits. The all-star team showed that with more
practice they could give the varsity a little boost. On the team we find four Freshmen, three Juniors, and two
Seniors.

In the box, Cathey struck them out with his “wicked curve.” Behind the bat, Rooster McFadden stopped the ball by
various methods. On first, Ratchford caught everything that came his way. "Pat" Robson held down second in great style. “Look
at that leg” is what they all say about Miller on short. “Slow but sure” Black completed the million-dollar infield.
Out in left field, “Doc” McConnell crept up on the balls that came his way and demonstrated his wonderful “peg.”
“Lazarus” Montgomery effectively held down his job in center. Last but not least, we find “String Bean” McAskill in right,
giving advice freely and holding down his position to perfection.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

PASSED.
Medical Officer—“Have you any organic trouble?”
Recruit—"Na, sir, I ain't a bit musical."—Tit-Bits.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

NEXT BATTER!
A young man escorting a young lady to her home on First Street was asked by said young lady: “By
the way, can you play baseball?”
Young man: “Sure I can.”
Young lady: “Well, I'm safe at First. Now let's see you steal one.”
The game had to be called on account of darkness.

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
Dunlap Hats
E. & W. Metric Shirts
Hirsh Wickwire & Brandegee
Kincaid Clothing
Charlotte, N. C.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the
one you want. In these factory warerooms, you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices,
you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for
your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
