The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Editorial Board
D. W. Roberts, Editor-in-Chief
J. E. Cassell, Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr., Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck, Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill, Alumni Editor

The Staff
D. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

Management
C. J. Mathews, Business Manager
L. L. McAllister, Circulation Manager
C. H. Long, Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson, Assistant Manager
A. M. Mitchell, Assistant Manager

Additional reporters for this issue are:
C. E. Cunningham, P. C. Simmons, W. K. Reid, J. W. Phillips, E. H. Tufts, T. S. Martin, F. S.
Manning, C. B. Sanders, R. R. Craig, D. K. Guille, W. W. Moore, W. R. Booth, R. A. Belize, J.
F. Clark, M. W. Doggett, B. S. Brettenhert.

1920
S. H. Askew
T. H. Spence

1921
J. R. Walker
W. P. Cumming
A. M. Mitchell

1922
M. R. Doubles
O. M. Dugger
J. M. Richards
J. R. Price

Subscription, $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editorial

"What sculpture is to a block of marble, education is to a human soul." — Addison.

"Things don't turn up in this world until someone turns them up. A pound of pluck is worth a ton
of luck."

The student body has decided to erect a bronze tablet in honor of those who died in service. Now for
the donor of an attractive set of gates at the entrance of the campus on which this tablet may be
placed.

Davidson is very fortunate in being able to hold Col. Mueller for next year. Watch him make things hum. He
is certainly a man we cannot afford to lose.

Talking about spirit and "pep," Davidson certainly has it. See on the back page what the Greater Davidson Club is
doing for her.

We wish to express our appreciation for the pleasure which Mrs. R. W. Miles, Miss Margaret Miles, her mother, and
others have afforded to the student body and the visiting alumni by tastefully arranging a "Y" rest room and social
center at the gym.

"The lucky man is the one who grasps his opportunity."

Subscription Campaign

The Circulation Department has as its goal "Every Davidson Alumnus a Subscriber of the Davidsonian." During the summer, our wide-awake
Circulation Manager will send you a letter with an enclosed card. Sign up and return it to him. This will
mean that we can give you one of the best, if not the best, college papers in the state. Back
us while we are backing Alma Mater.

May 28, 1919

An open letter to the college men of the South from the University Commission on Southern Race Questions:

As we write this, you are either speeding away towards home or have already arrived and are enjoying the beginning
of your summer vacation. Commencement, 1919, has passed, and there will be no regret in the heart of those who
remained for the exercises, for these past four days have been happy ones. Those who let the call of home
draw them away beforehand will be the only ones to regret.

The absence of students was so conspicuous that it brought forth many expressions of surprise. Especially was this true on
Sunday night at the Y. M. C. A. We hope that the old college spirit of Davidson will take possession
of the hearts of all its undergraduates and that they will, to the last man, remain through the whole commencement
exercises. When we were asked, "Where are your fellow students?" we could not keep the blood from rushing to our
faces as we would answer, "They have gone home."

We have heard some speak of making this great festivity compulsory as in other colleges, but this will never solve
the problem satisfactorily. The way to solve it is to make commencement so attractive that none will want to leave.
This can be done by giving everyone a part. In the first place, let us give the freshmen a part.
At the beginning of the year, let them organize a dramatic club, so then when commencement comes, give them a
night in which they may prove their ability to amuse the public. The sophomores and juniors with others that have
musical ability can organize a band. Then we will not have to depend on outsiders for our music. Let the
seniors have a well-arranged and interesting program for their class day exercises. And finally, may all the student organizations on
the hill have open house during this brief period of happiness and good feeling. Of course, we should not leave
out the alumni, for they are the larger part. Let them have a grand procession on the day of their
class reunions with colors and banners. With this spirit of cooperation, we are sure that the old commencement days will
soon return.

Fourth R.O.T.C. District's Creed

"Keep Your Grit and Plug Along."

The following little squib by Edgar A. Guest appeals to the District Inspector to such an extent that he is
passing it on to the several units in this district:

"What Wins."

"It's the everlasting climbing that gets you to the top, and the everlasting sticking to the task you'd like to
drop; it's the grit and vim and muscle in the rough and tumble tussle that will bring you home to
victory and the distant goal you seek; it's the ever up and working, never lying down and shirking that eventually
will land you on the mountain's sunny peak. It's the patient perseverance to the plan which you have made that
will bring you through the dangers and the pitfalls which are laid; it's the steady, constant driving to the goal
for which you're striving, not the speed with which you travel, that will make your victory sure; it's the everlasting
gaining, without whimpering or complaining at the burdens you are bearing or the woes you must endure. It's the holding
to a purpose, and the never giving in, it's in cutting down the distance by the little that you win;
it's the sure and firm endeavor, not the brilliant stroke and clever, that shall bring you home to gladness and
to days of joy and song; it's the iron will to do it, and the steady sticking to it, so
whate'er your task, go to it! Keep your grit and plug along!"

Let us adopt this as our creed, and let each one of us try to live up to the standard
as set. I don’t know where I have ever found any writing that suits my fancy quite so well as
this, particularly this part: "It’s the iron will to do it, and the steady sticking to it, so whate’er your
task, go to it! Keep your grit and plug along!"

L. JORDAN,
Lieut. Col. Infantry, U.S.A.
District Inspector.

A New Reconstruction

The worldwide reconstruction that is following in the wake of the war will necessarily affect the South in a peculiar...way.
Nearly 300,000 negroes have been called into the military service of the country; many thousands more have been drawn from
peaceful pursuits into industries born of the war. The demobilization of the army and the transition of industry from a
war to a peace basis are creating many problems which can be solved only by the efforts of both races.
The negro in adapting himself to the new conditions should have the wise sympathy and generous co-operation of his white
neighbors. It is to the interest of these as well as of the negro himself, that readjustment should proceed with
the least possible difficulty and delay.

The negroes’ contribution to the welfare of the nation has never been more clearly indicated than by his services during
the great war. When the call to arms was sounded his country expected him to do his duty, and he
did not fail. Large numbers of black men on the fields of France made the supreme sacrifice for the cause
of world democracy. In other war services the negroes did their full share. Many thousands were employed in the building
of ships, the manufacture of munitions, the construction of cantonments, and in the production of the coal, iron, cotton, and
foodstuffs without which victory would have been impossible. The negroes’ purchases of Liberty Bonds and War Savings Stamps and their
contributions to the Red Cross, the United War Work Fund, and other similar agencies are in themselves a splendid record
of which the negroes and their white friends may be justly proud.

It may also be appropriate in this connection to recall that throughout the period of hostilities the negro was never
suspected of espionage or of sympathy with the enemy, and that he has been wholly indifferent to those movements fostered
by radical aliens that aim at the destruction of the American form of government. This good record of the whole
race deserves such publicity as will offset the common tendency to judge it by the shortcomings of some of its
members. No people is spurred to higher things when habitually referred to in disparaging or contemptuous terms. Ordinary human beings
tend to live up to or down to the role assigned them by their neighbors.

At this time we would appeal especially for a large measure of thoughtfulness and consideration, for the control of careless
habits of speech which give needless offense and for the practice of just relations. To seek by all practical means
to cultivate a more tolerant spirit, a more generous sympathy, and a wider degree of co-operation between the best elements
of both races, to emphasize the best rather than the worst features of interracial relations, to secure greater publicity for
those whose views are based on reason rather than prejudice—these, we believe, are essential parts of the reconstruction programme by
which it is hoped to bring into the world a new era of peace and democracy.

Thrift is a double protection for wage earners. It not only leads to independence, but it produces those accumulations of
capital upon which, husbanded and invested by savings institutions, the industries of the country, and consequently the opportunity for labor
must depend. Practice thrift by buying Thrift Stamps and War Savings Stamps.

THE WAR IS OVER But We Continue to Deliver THE BEST FRESH MEAT PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED White’s Market Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N. C.

EXCHANGES

Old Gold and Black—Wofford is rejoicing over winning in triangular debate on government ownership of railroads. Her affirmative team defeated
Presbyterian College by unanimous decision and her negative won from Newberry College.

Virginia Tech—V. P. I. is anxiously awaiting the arrival of Lieut. Col. Conway, Government inspector, who recently put the Davidson
battalion through its military paces. The Techs shut out Elon in a couple of well-played games.

The Lawrentian—Lawrence College is planning a great anniversary day June 17th, when the 25th year of the presidency of Dr.
Plantz will be fittingly observed.

Winthrop Weekly News—Winthrop has a graduating class of 200 young ladies. Some class! The graduate recitals are being given this
week.

The Tiger—Trinity wins from the tigers after twelve innings of roaring baseball. The senior Chemistry class has made an interesting
trip to surrounding industrial plants.

The Gamecock—The South Carolinians are well pleased with their showing against Davidson in April track meet. An alumnus is now
at the University preparing a book on Bolshevism, having spent three years in Russia.

The Skull and Bones—The Virginia Meds have fallen in line and adopted a “blanket fee” covering athletics and publications.

Ringtum-Phi—When the question of an R. O. T. C. was placed before the students of W. & L., they voted
it down. A large number of alumni and “queens” are booked for commencement.

Mass Tech has an Aero Society. Al Jolson recently entertained them on field day.

The Technique—More than 25 men will attend Blue Ridge from Georgia Tech. The enrollment this year numbers 3,017, with men
from 25 States. Every student is required to stay through commencement. Can Davidson not follow suit?

“Bob” Miles Will Be At Your Service Send Him the News Concerning Prospects.

Under the auspices of the Greater Davidson Club next year promises to be one of the best that Davidson has
had for several years. In order to assure a splendid year every one is going to try to bring someone
back with him next fall. Mr. Miles will be here during the summer after June. If you have anybody in
view who might be possibly interested in coming to Davidson, just send Mr. Miles his name and he will be
glad to do all he can to get him to come to Davidson. Fellows, Mr. Miles is going to do
his part, so everyone should feel it a privilege to help and do all he can. Bear in mind that
we want the biggest and best session ever this coming year, and each one can render valuable service. Don’t forget
this. Keep on the job all the time.

Was Maybelle a success at Palm Beach? Oh, yes, she got along swimmingly. In fact, she managed to outstrip all
the other girls.

Don’t hand yourself a gold brick. When the other fellow succeeds it’s not just luck. It’s success attained through hard
work.

CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., Inc.

Moultrie Buick Co. BUICK AUTOMOBILES C. M. VEREEN, Gen’l. Manager Moultrie, Ga.

Manager, The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C. Dear Sir: May 20, 1919

It is with great pleasure that I enclose herewith my check for $1.25 for subscription fee for The Davidsonian one
year. I intend to be a subscriber just as long as your paper exists, and I trust that this will
be a long, long time. I belong to the class of 1914 and only wish that it was so that
my business would permit me to visit the dear old campus especially this reunion year of my class.

Yours very truly, E. M. Vereen

Let’s hear from some more of the Alumni—who have the spirit of this one. Send in your subscription NOW to
the Business Manager, Davidson College, N. C.

OUR GOAL—EVERY ALUMNUS
