The DAVIDSONIAN, April 9, 1919

The Davidsonian every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the
Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

EDITORIAL BOARD
D. W. Roberts ........ Editor-in-Chief
J. E. Cassell .......... Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr. ... Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck ........ Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill ...... Dramatic Editor

THE STAFF
D. M. Chalmers
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

MANAGEMENT
C. J. Mathews ....... Business Manager
L. L. McAllister ..... Circulation Manager
A. L. Currie ......... Assistant Manager
C. H. Long .......... Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson ........ Assistant Manager

REPORTER'S STAFF
S. H. Askew
R. R. Craig
T. H. Spence
M. A. Tremain
J. R. Walker
A. M. Mitchell
W. P. Cumming
J. M. Richards
J. P. Price
M. R. Doubles
O. M. Dugeer, Jr.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

HOW ARE YOU RUNNING?

The goal lies before you. Examinations are only thirty working days off. Then after ten days of testing, we will
cross the line. How will it be? Will it be at the rate of a hundred, eighty, sixty per, or
will it be that someone will have to drag us off the field?

These coming days will be the most trying of the whole course. It will be necessary for us to buckle
down to a steady stride from now until we cross the mark, if we hope to cross it at a
rate above sixty per. There will be more than one obstacle to hinder us in this race for promotion and
the skin. Maybe it will be our own lazy selves that will hold us back? Maybe those “sweet things” with
large eyes and small hands? Maybe the peanut parcher or the green bench in some shady nook? Whatever it is,
it will be necessary for us to pledge ourselves against it for these coming days if we ever hope to
win.

The warm days are coming, and the southern winds are going to make even the most energetic lazy to some
extent. It is human that they should, but it is no excuse for either them or you to lay down
on the job. There is a time for everything; there is even a time for loafing. By no matter of
means should anyone let studying or anything come in to take up this time which you should be—just resting. But
when the time of studying comes, the time for loafing has passed by, and as studying should not interfere with
our loafing, neither should our loafing interfere with our studying.

The folks back home are on the sidelines pulling for you. They are interested in every move and are anxiously
waiting for the day when you shall cross the line in the lead. Now is not the time to let
up, for none of us want to disappoint those back home.

Yes, '21—"They say that the Prof’s mind has completely gone."
'22—"Gosh, I’m lucky. I haven't read my assignment for today, and he told me the next time I didn’t do
my work he was going to give me a piece of his mind."—Widow.

J. M. Gaston

Uncle Josh said some time ago: “Give every fellow you meet the time of day and half the road. If
two or three doses of that kind of medicine fail to make him civil and kind, don’t waste any more
ammunition to pump politeness into a fool.” Davidson is very fortunate in having very few incurables of this type. “Hello!
Gentlemen. How is it this morning?” has long been the custom on our campus. May it never cease.

“To cheer together in perfect time at the call of the cheerleader is a college education in itself,” someone has
said. At that rate, we are far from being educated.

The Nashville Banner says: “Another sign of a prosperous baseball season is the fact that cold weather hasn't hurt the
peanut crop.”

LET US GET BEHIND THE TEAM.

Baseball season is here. The schedule calls for four games on the hill and two in Charlotte. The team needs
every mother’s son of us there to back them up. Will we be there to help them over the fatal
seventh? Or will it be a repetition of former seasons when no one but the cheerleader and a few faithfuls
did all the cheering and showed that the Davidson bleachers were not entirely dead?

Many have said that the Davidson crowd could not yell. That might have been true in the past, but it
will not be in the future. Davidson can yell, and she has as much pep as the next college if
she would only get down and practice as the teams which she sends off her campus every year to spread
her name throughout the South.

One of the most inspiring features at the games between the larger colleges of our country is the cheering. One
section of the bleachers strives with another to see which has the best lungs. And if you ever noticed it,
the spirit of those fellows was as contagious as...It could be, for before long you were in it yelling as
big as the next one. Between the halves or while the teams are changing sides, the leader starts up a
song and everyone picks it up. How can you keep out of it? There is no way on earth unless
you leave. When the game is over and just before the crowds leave, the band plays “Alma Mater.” Everyone stands
and bares his head while everybody joins in and sings. Our “Alma Mater” goes like this:

(1) College ties can ne'er be broken,
Formed at old D.C,
Far surpassing wealth unspoken
They’ll forever be.

Chorus:
D. C., D. C., Hail to thee,
Thou hast been kind to us;
Ever shall we cherish thee
With thoughts of love and trust.

(2) When our college days are over,
And our way shall part,
Still in thee we'll be united,
Still be one in heart.

Chorus:

Let us learn it and back Amo and the team up at the next game on Monday.

PROFESSIONAL EFFICIENCY.

In his charming poem, “The Vain King,” Henry Van Dyke tells of a man who wanted to do everything well.
He desired to excel everybody else in his kingdom at every particular point. He wanted to be the center of
every picture, and he ended by being the center in one picture, the portrait of a fool. He had not
studied his own life to find a place where he could attain mastery through long discipline and practice. He tried
his hand at everything, and he did nothing really well. If a man is going to attain professional efficiency, he
must have one profession and not several. He must not waste brain and brawn in the endeavor to have a
number of life works. He must find his line of ability, and then he must continually say, “This one thing
I do.” —Lynn Harold Hough, M.A., D.D.

TELL IT TO HOOVER.

“Well, I've beaten all records this time.”
“In what?”
“Why, I've lived on an apple a day for five weeks.”
“Well, that's nothing; I've lived on earth for 35 years!”

PHOTO FINISHING
R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.
