Vice of Prof. J. L. Douglas Enters Upon Twenty-Second Year as Professor of Pure Mathematics

John Leighton Douglas was born in Winnsboro, South Carolina, in 1864. He entered Davidson in 1884 but left at the end of his sophomore year, returning in 1892. He won the debater's medal and graduated in 1894 with the highest honors in his class. He then went to Johns Hopkins, where he studied mathematics, physics, and chemistry. He completed all work required for the Ph.D. degree except the thesis.

In 1897, he was elected to the chair of mathematics at Davidson. Since that time, he has filled this position. Professor Douglas, by his scholarly accuracy, his attentiveness to detail, his enthusiasm for his subject, and the lucidity of his explanations, has made a lasting impression upon all who have been students under him during the twenty-two years that he has been the head of the department of mathematics. His service to the college has made for him a lasting place in the hearts of all to whom her interest is dear.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 15, 1919

Who, What, and Where Among the Alumni

Faithfulness Characterizes Service of Prof. J. L. Douglas

J. Roy Barron, ex-'11, was married on October 8 to Miss Mildred Koonce, of Rock Hill. Mr. Barron is connected officially with the Manchester Cotton Mills in Rock Hill. Messrs. W. Roddey, Jr., Stuart Gilchrist, and W. P. Thomson, all college associates, were attendants at the wedding.

J. H. Patterson, '19, is local secretary of the War Camp Community Service of Tallahassee, Fla.

G. S. Crouch, '18, was on the Hill Saturday night and Sunday. He is now working with the Union National Bank of Charlotte.

Alex. Sprunt, ex-'18, was on the Hill Sunday.

Ted Cashion, '17, was on the Hill Sunday.

Mr. J. E. Johnson, '13, now principal of Reynolda School of Winston-Salem, N.C., attended the wedding of his sister, Miss Mildred Johnson, of Davidson, on Tuesday last.

FOUNDER OF DAVIDSONIAN SOON TO SAIL FOR JAPAN

W. A. McIlwaine, '15, will sail on November 13 for Japan to take up missionary work in that country. Mr. McIlwaine is declared to be the founder of the Davidsonian, as it was by his suggestion and through his efforts that it was established. He was a member of the first staff. Mr. McIlwaine married Miss Georgia Gifford, of Springfield, Vermont, last May.

ALUMNI NEWS

Rev. Fred J. Hay, '14, and Miss Mildred Johnson, of Davidson, will be married in the Presbyterian Church of Davidson on Tuesday, October 14.

E. A. Woods, '19, is teaching in the high school in Greensboro this year.

N. Y. Pharr, '19, is studying law at the University of North Carolina this session.

M. Cosby, '12, a lieutenant in the Eighty-first Division, has settled in Winston-Salem since returning from overseas.

Rev. T. L. Haney, '99, who was recently installed as the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, was on the Hill last week visiting his nephew, J. E. Haney.

H. D. Kerr, ex-'13, is a surgical interne at Johns Hopkins Hospital this year.

Davidson Scene of Beautiful Wedding

Rev. Fred J. Hay Weds Miss Mildred Johnston

The marriage of Miss Mildred Johnston and Rev. Fred J. Hay, Jr., was solemnized in the Davidson Presbyterian Church at 5:30 o'clock Tuesday afternoon, October 14. Rev. Samuel H. Hay, of Mooresville, a brother of the groom, and Dr. C. M. Richards, of Davidson, uncle of the groom, officiated. While the guests were assembling, Miss Hattie Thompson played the Bridal Chorus from Cowen’s “Rose Maiden,” after which the notes of the wedding march from Lohengrin announced the approach of the bridal party.

The ushers entered first, Will Ramseur with Joe Niesler, Jack Hunter with J. M. Richards, the two latter being cousins of the groom. Next came the groomsmen, C. M. McCaskill and John Richards, cousins of the groom. Then entered the bridesmaids from the side aisles, Miss Mary Hay, sister of the groom, and Miss Mary Richards, cousin of the groom. Both were lovely in dresses of white organdie with sashes of green tulle, and carrying chrysanthemums tied with yellow tulle. Next came the maid of honor, Miss Rachel Wylie, of York, S.C., who was daintily dressed in yellow taffeta trimmed with white organdie frills and carrying white chrysanthemums tied with yellow tulle. Preceding the bride was the groom's little niece, Rachel Hay, of Mooresville, carrying the ring buried in the heart of a large chrysanthemum.yellow chrysanthemum. The bride entered with her brother, J. E. Johnston, coming down the center aisle, and was met at the altar by the groom and his best man, Rev. John Hay, who entered from the left aisle. The bride was a picture of girlish beauty in her wedding gown of pussy willow taffeta. The church was beautifully decorated with ferns and potted plants which banked the pulpit. In front of the pulpit were colonnades graduating in a semi-circle, covered with ivy, and on the tops of these were lovely gold baskets filled with yellow chrysanthemums and candelabra. Immediately after the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Hay left for a honeymoon.

Tim Pharr, ’12, left the Hill after a three weeks’ stay. He is now in Virginia, where he is considering taking a church.

Lieut. D. H. Nisbet has recently received his discharge from the Medical Corps of the U. S. Army, and is now located in Charlotte. His address is 505 North Tryon Street. Before being discharged, Mr. Nisbet was at the Base Hospital, Fort Sam, Houston, Texas.

L. G. Edgerton, '16, was married recently and is now making his home in Lynchburg, Va. He is in the automobile business.

W. T. Witt, '16, is district sales manager of Alabama for the Anderson Motor Company. His address is Box 427, Birmingham, Ala.

Rev. S. B. Lyerly, '12, of Willow Springs, N. C., was married on September 23 to Miss Beulah Marie Cline, of Lenoir, N. C.

William P. Parker, '11, with Mrs. Parker and the children, reached California in September. They will spend the winter studying, probably in the White Bible School of Los Angeles.

The groom is the talented young pastor of the Presbyterian church, Kings Mountain, N. C. He graduated at Davidson six years ago with honor, winning the Bible medal and several others. Mrs. Hay is the only daughter of Willie P. Johnston, of this town, and her many friends regret that her marriage will take her away. They will make their home in Kings Mountain and will be open to visitors after November 5.

TOWN NEWS.

The Misses Young entertained last Friday afternoon in honor of the bride-elect, Miss Mildred Johnston.

Dr. Melvin, chairman of the Million Dollar Campaign for North Carolina, was a visitor in town Thursday. Dr. Martin attended a conference in Atlanta last week.

Miss Elizabeth Grey spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Mrs. W. D. Vincent attended the marriage of Mr. Roy Barron, of Rock Hill, last week.

Miss Mary Richards gave a linen shower on Saturday afternoon in honor of Miss Mildred Johnston.

Rev. and Mrs. W. E. McIlwain, of Japan, have been guests of Mrs. A. B. Robinson for several days. Miss Minnie Scofield has been away for several days on a trip to Richmond. Miss Maude Vincent attended the teachers’ assembly held in Charlotte last week.

Rev. A. C. Ormond, who has been traveling in South Carolina, spent the weekend at home.

HOKE COUNTY CLUB COMES INTO EXISTENCE.

The Hoke County Club, composed of men from Hoke County, North Carolina, was organized Saturday, October 11, 1919, with the following officers: W. C. Hodgin, president; J. L. Nisbet, vice-president; A. A. Campbell, secretary and treasurer. Members as follows: R. L. Hall, Murdock McLeod, R. E. Blue, J. M. Adams, and Cecil Dew.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Prof. Topplinsky Says: “The word ‘female’ comes from the Latin ‘Fee,’ meaning money, and ‘male’ meaning man. ‘Female’—get money from a man.”—The Crimson White.

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C. Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

At sixteen she believes anything. At twenty-five you have to show her a blueprint.—Crimson White.

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold