WITH THE FACULTY. After spending June at Davidson, Dr. Martin went with his family for the balance of the summer to Blowing Rock. With renewed health, Dr. Martin expects to be in his office when college opens. He attended the Educational Conference at Montreat last week and spent a few days on the campus before returning to Blowing Rock. It is expected that both Dr. Lingle and Dr. McConnell will answer “present” at the first faculty meeting roll call. After two years’ absence, these men will be welcomed back to their places. Dr. Lingle was engaged in “Y” work for a while this summer and later taught in the University of Virginia Summer School. He is now “catching his breath” at Montreat for a running start September 9th. Dr. McConnell hopes to get his discharge from the army within a few days. Dr. Grey has been in Davidson most of the summer. He handled the work in the President's office during June, placing his stamp of approval on fifty applications for entrance. Dr. Currie took up this work for July and “passed” on fifty-one applications (no record available of how many he flunked). That Dr. Currie might get away for a motor trip to Blowing Rock, Crossnore, and other mountain cities, Dr. Sentelle came in August 1st to do this work. Dr. Sentelle spent his vacation on his East Tennessee farm, though he was not much sunburned when he arrived. Prof. Wood dates his letters from Lewisburg, W. Va., from which place Davidson will have her usual number of recruits. West Virginia is almost a byword on the Davidson campus and it seems Davidson is getting to be familiarly known in the cattle-raising country. Montreat has its charms for Davidson people. Dr. J. M. Douglas and family are there this summer, Dr. J. M. McConnell and family are occupying their cottage there. They have taken one or more motor trips over to Camp Sapphire to visit Joe and Riggs. Dr. J. L. Douglas has had Davidson as headquarters and has taken trips to Montreat, Chester, and perhaps others. Miss Shaw and Miss Thompson selected Montreat for their vacation places. They report the social life ideal. Mrs. Robeson is with friends in New Orleans. Col. Muehler was on the official staff at Camp Lee and went from camp to Blowing Rock for a short vacation. He and Mrs. Muehler are now at home in their handsome new quarters. In addition to three or four town boys at Camp Sapphire and a dozen students to add tone to the place, Prof. Macon Reed has an important official position. This well-managed camp is having a wonderfully successful season. Dr. Harding has used his Saxon Six freely between Davidson and Charlotte and is now on a motor trip through Western North Carolina. Mr. Miles spent a week with relatives in Virginia and went from there to Blue Ridge, where he was a member of the faculty during the Student Conference. Since then he has been the mainspring of the Greater Davidson Club and the whole works of the Alumni Athletic Association. While in that enervating climate, Mr. Miles sprouted a heavy mustache. On his return to the campus, one of the town boys, seeing him at a distance, mistook him for Dr. Clayberg. However, when the boys arrive, he will be looking perfectly natural. They say Mrs. Miles “induced” him to reconsider. Professor Shewmake taught English at the University of Virginia Summer School and is now at Columbia University. He and Mrs. Shewmake will occupy the Worth home on Concord Street. Dr. Arbuckle was an important member of the live Davidson delegation at Blue Ridge. He writes from Lewisburg that the “Greater Davidson Club stuff counts.” What will he say when he begins to take inventory September 3rd? Mr. Jackson has been busy all summer receiving room deposits, seeing that the college was ready for the new year, and attending to more necessary things than one could imagine would turn up in the course of a summer. During the tent meeting, he did great work and the mill chapel is showing the results. His favorite diversion has been playing tennis and when he jumps off the ground, lets out a whoop, and smashes one, you had better look out, for it is a “railroad drive” a la Jay Gould. Miss Steele was in Rock Hill for two weeks on her vacation and she must have had a fine time, for every once in a while she disappears in that direction for the weekend. She has been busy taking dictation from Drs. Grey, Currie, and Sentelle and we would hate to hazard a guess how many letters she has written during these summer months.

GOOD-BYE, COACH BILL; WE HATE TO SEE YOU GO. Davidson men everywhere were sorry to hear that Mr. W. McK. Fetzer, our popular and successful coach for the past five years, had resigned and was going to the North Carolina A. & E. to take charge of athletics in that institution. Under Coach Bill’s direction, the Red and Black teams made an enviable reputation throughout the South and on all sides you heard favorable and enthusiastic mention of the Wildcats. We believe he is one of the best, if not the very best, coach in the South and we hate to see him go. Not only as a coach was he beloved and admired at Davidson but first and foremost as a man he had a hold on the student body that was strong and far-reaching in its power for good. He is the type of Christian gentleman that puts athletics on a high plane and his personality was reflected in the hard-playing but ever-clean teams that represented Davidson on the athletic field and made Davidson's athletics synonymous with all that was fair and above board. Our good wishes go with you, Coach Bill, and may your success increase as the years go by.

MOORE-McALPINE MARRIAGE. Capt. Jno. W. Moore, '12, and Miss Marjorie McAlpine were married August 19th at Blue Ridge, N. C., the ceremony being performed on the porch of the Sharpe-McAlpine cottage. After a brief bridal trip, Capt. and Mrs. Moore will be at home in Winston-Salem, N. C., where Capt. Moore will again be connected with the city schools. Capt. Moore is perhaps as widely and favorably known as any other young Davidson alumnus. He has maintained an active interest in the college since his graduation and has for five or six summers spent his vacation period working for Davidson. We welcome Mrs. Moore into the family and extend them both our heartiest congratulations and best wishes.

“Y” SOCIAL ROOM AND NEW EQUIPMENT. In the letter from Chalmers, the plans for the Y. M. C. A. work this coming year are fully outlined and this will deal with a different phase of the “Y” program. When you arrive on the Hill this fall, we hope to have the social room at the gym fixed up in first-class shape and from time to time add to it. This has been a long-felt want on the campus: a place where fellows can congregate, no matter what the weather, and where idle moments can be passed in congenial company. When the plan was broached this past spring, it was met with an enthusiastic welcome by all who discussed it. The room referred to is to the left as you enter the gym. It is being fitted up in an attractive manner with the furniture that we have had for some years. The Victrola will be guaranteed to work this session and we are planning to put a player piano in shortly after college opens; it would be there when you arrive but the board of control can't pass on the expenditure, as they are so widely scattered. However, we hope to get it early in September. Then there will be at least a few current magazines to supplement the reading room. Quiet games will fill out the rest. Across the hall, the writing room will be utilized again, and one of the small rooms will be used as a storeroom, while Mr. Miles has his office in the other one. It is hoped that every fellow in college will be a frequent visitor. The whole moving picture outfit was purchased and movies are to be shown once a week anyhow. These pictures will be the very best that can be had. The plan is to pay for these out of the “Y” budget and not charge admittance at the door. If the budget comes up to expectations, there ought to be no difficulty in this. With these rooms and equipment to start with, it is to be hoped that the college association will grow in strength so rapidly that before long it will have a building all its own.

ALUMNI ITEMS. Rev. W. S. Golden, class ‘13, has returned to his charge at Sanford, N. C., after serving as chaplain in the A. E. F. for a year. Clewell Howell, ‘19, will teach in the Belmont, N. C., High School this year. D. W. Klutez, ‘11, passed the State Board of N. C. with the highest grade of the 82 applicants for doctor's licenses. Mr. Stacy Farrior, ‘12, and Miss Kitty Caldwell McMullen were married in June in far-off Shanghai. Dr. Wm. Perry, of Georgia Tech, visited the campus this summer. Rev. R. S. Arrowood, Jr., class ‘13, has gone to the First Church in Salisbury, N. C., as assistant pastor for six months. J. P. Williams, '16, is now business manager of the University of New Mexico at Albuquerque. Mr. Williams has recovered entirely from the illness that necessitated his going to the west. Dr. Porter Vinson, class ‘10, and Miss Lenore Dunlap, of Washington, Penn., were married in May. Dr. Vinson had just returned fromService in Italy and is now at Rochester, Minn., where he is associated with the Mayo brothers.

Mr. J. C. Boyd, class '13, will have charge of the Lexington, N. C., schools this coming year.

July 5, Chaplain E. S. Curry, of the Second Division, has become known as the “Wrestling Parson.” The contests are held in the Leutersdorf Playhouse and Chaplain Curry takes on new men from the Third Battalion of the Sixth Marines every night and wins about 75 per cent of the matches. The agreement is that each man that he throws pledges himself to induce five other soldiers to go to church the next Sunday. Curry graduated in '12 and was on the varsity eleven and a great gymnast.

Here are some of the alumni back from the war who have taken up business in Charlotte: W. Thomson, '10; J. R. Rumple, ex-'12; McA. Carr, '13; J. Carson, '16; “Puddin” Cosby, ex-'15; Harry Caldwell, ex-'12; Jack Black, ex-'18; Ted Cashion, '17; R. D. Alexander, Bob Harding.

C. R. Wilcox, '11, and wife were in Davidson a few days in July. Mr. Wilcox was just back from France and on his way to McCallie School, where he will take up his duties again as one of the Head Masters.

Sam Gilbert, '19, and Hugh Guay, '17, make you show your tickets at the Montreat gate this summer.

Pat Robson, '19, is also summering at Montreat, having charge of the recreation program. Pat goes to McCallie this fall as a teacher and coach.

Lieutenant A. Leazar, '11, was one of the first of the army aviators to qualify for a civilian license. Lieutenant Leazar flew over Davidson this summer in an army plane en route to Charlotte from Mooresville.

Rev. Thomas Currie, '05, has been in Davidson for the month of August. Mr. Currie is a brother to Prof. Currie. He and his family have been occupying Prof. Reed’s house during their stay.

Dr. Edw. W. Currie, class of '01, died of pneumonia in a Charlotte hospital June 26th. Dr. Currie was a prominent physician of Salisbury, where he had been practicing for 12 years. At the time of his death he was president of the Rowan County Medical Society. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. Jas. W. Currie, and three brothers, J. W. Currie, Raeford, Rev. T. K. Currie, Columbus, Ga., and Prof. A. Currie.

Speech That Isn't Free.
Talk may be cheap, but the phone companies seem bound to have it otherwise.—Cincinnati Enquirer.

Mistress: “Bridget, it always seems to me that the crankiest mistresses get the best cooks.”
Cook: “Ah, go on wid yer blarney!”—Illustrated Bits.

LOCALS AND PERSONALS.
W. L. Roddey, ex-'21, who was at Princeton before enlisting in the army, has decided to return to “Class C. League.”

A. C. Ormond, Jr., was for part of the summer working in the Million Dollar Campaign office in Greensboro.

Chas. B. Sanders has been in Davidson all summer.

Dr. and Mrs. W. H. Miley have decided to make Davidson their home for another year. Dr. Miley has accepted the position of Superintendent of Evangelism for the Synod of South Carolina.

Geo. E. and W. H. Miley, Jr., will both be in college again this fall.

Mr. C. A. Potts, who for several years has been “censor” for Bank of Davidson, has recently accepted work in the office of the Linden & Delburg Mills.

Col. Muchler wants a band; let's have it!

One hundred and twenty Ostermoor mattresses arrived from New York today. A Philadelphia factory had our order for 120 beds and when 70 had been finished a strike went on. This finished part of the order was shipped August 7th. Twenty-five double deck beds were purchased from the Navy Y.M.C.A. and shipped from Norfolk August 13th.

New tables were made in Mooresville and the new chiffoniers in Winston-Salem.

A box of text books containing 985 pounds of knowledge arrived this week. Other shipments are coming in daily.

A father has written, “My father was a member of the class of 1842, my class was '78. I want to register my two sons.”

Another father wrote: “Please send catalogue. I have seven sons which under the providence of God I hope to educate under Christian influence.” The catalog went by return mail.

No one has expressed to us his opinion of Davidson in the Pictorial section of the Charlotte Observer. Didn't you like it?

Schedule of recitations will be printed next week.

Sergeant O'Connell blew in the other day from Camp Devens and is now putting the equipment into shape for Uncle Sam's future Reserve.

DR. SHEARER'S DEATH.
Nothing more than an announcement of Dr. Shearer’s death will be given here. The Davidsonian will, doubtless, want to give a more extensive space to this after college opens. The end came to this useful life on the afternoon of June 29th. The funeral services were conducted in the church by Dr. Richards, assisted by Rev. W. J. McKay, D.D., representing the Board of Trustees, and Dr. C. R. Harding and Dr. Martin speaking for the faculty. Burial was in the Davidson cemetery beside his beloved wife. A great man, a great work, a great reward.

SHE IS A WISE WOMAN.
Who keeps in mind that a little credit is a dangerous thing.
Who is able to mend both her husband's clothes and his ways.
Who has learned the paradox that to have joy one must give it.
Who can tell the difference between her first child and a genius.
Who acknowledges the allowances made by her husband by making allowances for him.
Who appreciates that the largest room in any house is that left for self-improvement.
Who can distinguish between the laugh of amusement and the one meant to show off a dimple.—Ex.

DADDY LONG LEGS.
The movies are showing this beautiful story which attracts crowds, and always pleases. It is well worth the price of admission to see with one's eyes what he has already seen with his mind in the perusal of the delightful book bearing the above title. But there is danger that the picture may do some harm as well as a great deal of good. Ignorant people who so often jump at conclusions may be prejudiced against the Orphanage work in general on account of the brutality practiced at the John Grier Orphanage; and selfish and prejudiced people who “have it in” for the Orphanage work may find in this splendid picture some apparent justification for their hostility to the Orphanage work.

We have no doubt in the world that “Daddy Long Legs” is a faithful portrayal of the old time Orphanage. It is hard to imagine anything more bleak and dreary than the life of a child imprisoned in these so-called homes with a board of bumptious, conceited and brutal directors like those of the Grier Orphanage, and managed by matrons and teachers whose blood is as cold as that of a snake.

Because of this mismanagement of old time Orphan homes, there are good people who still refuse to believe that an Orphanage is anything but a prison and the inmates little slaves who never hear a loving word or feel a motherly touch. They put the Orphanage along with the poorhouse.

Within the past decade or two a change has come over the management and method of conducting an Orphanage. There is nothing of the bleak and barren surroundings of the old time Orphanage. Life is made bright and happy for the children and men and women are employed who love the children and who remain in Orphanage work because they love it. The children do not wear uniforms but nice and comfortable clothing. Their poverty is not flaunted in their faces, but they are taught that they are the wards of a great and sympathetic denomination. The boards are composed of sensible business men who do not bother their heads with the details of the management but simply plan the policy of the institution and employ capable persons to carry out that policy. The children are given not only the common school course but music, art, domestic science and the benefit of industrial training in many lines. In short, the modern Orphanage is a home and not a cold and bloodless institution.—Charity and Children.

MANUFACTURERS WANT METRIC MEASUREMENTS.
San Francisco—Advocating that an advance be made to the simple and logical metric system of weights and measures, manufacturers of the United States and Britannia have rallied to the support of the World Trade Club of San Francisco in their campaign to secure world-wide adoption of metric units.

The Lord Mayor of Manchester, representing one of Britannia’s most important industrial cities, is president of the Manchester and District Decimal Association, whose purpose is to secure legislation in favor of the metric system. The president and founder of the American National Association of Manufacturers, Theodore C. Search, was a staunch advocate of the metric system. The American National Wholesale Grocers’ Association voted overwhelmingly in favor of adoption of metric units. The American National Canners’ Association urges adoption of metric units. This sentiment was passed at a convention of 5,000 delegates.

Among the many other important organizations which have been active in advocating meter-liter-gram are: Associated Steel Manufacturers of U.S. America; American Association for the Advancement of Science; American Drug Manufacturers’ Association; American Institute of Chemical Engineers; American Pharmaceutical Association; American Institute of Makers of Explosives; National American Association of Retail Druggists; National American Association of Wholesale Druggists; National American Scale Men’s Association.