435 Students

LOOK OUT, Wake Forest FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 24, 1919. No. 4

GLEE CLUB GETS UNDER WAY. NEW MEN WANTED.

At a recent meeting of the Glee Club, officers were elected for the year. B. E. Shields was re-elected leader; H. B. Brown, manager; C. J. Matthews, assistant manager. Plans are under way for a great season this year. The date has not been announced yet for the first practice, but it will be some time soon, and all the new men are urged to come out and try for a place. A number of trips will be taken this year to the leading female colleges in North and South Carolina, and it will be well worth any man's time and effort to make these trips.

Jack Pickford Delights Students “Pep” Meeting Also Held

According to current comment, the few who did not go to the movies Friday night missed a good picture—Jack Pickford in Tom Sawyer. It was a very good and accurate one, one that Mark Twain might well have been proud to see. The operators had some trouble with the machine when it jammed, but aside from that everything went off smoothly. During the interval between pictures, “Charlie” Vance led in a number of yells as a preparation for the Guilford game of Saturday. Mr. Miles asked that no one smoke in the building and that no chairs be brought from the loafing room. He also explained the financial situation of the pictures, inviting anyone who desired to contribute to the expense. In the future, the town people will be admitted by ticket only while the students will be admitted free. Season tickets will be sold to avoid unnecessary work. Anyone desiring tickets for the show next Friday may see either Mr. Miles, Askew, or Sullivan. The seating accommodations were not sufficient to hold the crowd, but plans have already been made for at least one hundred and fifty more seats, which will be ready by next Friday, thereby making room for everybody.

Lt.-Col. MacConnell Here On Sick Leave Expects to Receive Discharge Soon Will Then Return to College for Good

Lieut.-Col. Jno. W. MacConnell, our professor of Biology and college physician, returned to Davidson on September 15 on sick leave from U. S. General Hospital No. 2, at Fort McHenry, Md. He has been undergoing treatment there for injuries received while at Camp Jackson before he went across and on his return to the hospital on October 13 expects to be discharged. He had expected to be with us this fall, and we hope that he will be entirely recovered when he goes back to Fort McHenry. While here, Col. MacConnell is making the physical examination of all new students in the Y. M. C. A. office at the gymnasium, and from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. he will be at his office to receive patients.

STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS.

At a meeting of the Athletic Association last week, L. B. Schenck and J. C. McAskill were elected assistant football managers. The association also held a meeting Monday morning and named as the assistant basketball managers for this year J. R. Walker and Geo. Miley.

For Coming Year Staff Has Been Chosen—Six Issues Are Planned

Due to the unsettled conditions of the past two years, the Davidson College Magazine was discontinued for the period of war. At a recent meeting of the student body, it was decided to reorganize the Magazine with O. P. Hart as editor-in-chief and Carl Matthews as business manager. The first issue is to appear about October 15, and in order to have it in the hands of the students by that time, it is necessary that all articles intended for publication should be turned in by October 1. Prof. Shewmake will give credit in the English department for all articles submitted, whether used for publication or not. This should prove a further incentive for literary productions. An able staff composed of H. B. Brown, essay editor; H. C. Hamilton, short story editor; T. W. Hawkins, verse editor; D. L. Mahood, exchange editor; D. R. Freeman, alumni editor; R. T. L. Liston, humor and wit editor, has been selected and it is their purpose to make the Davidson College Magazine “The Best College Magazine in the South.” With the hearty co-operation of all students, this should easily be accomplished. There will be six issues this year instead of four, as in former years, two issues appearing in the fall term and four in the spring. The covers are to be the best ever used, cartoons will be published, and the Magazine will be thoroughly up-to-date in every respect.

HEARTY WELCOME EXTENDED CHINESE STUDENT P. C. MENG.

On last Friday evening, the first government student from China to come to Davidson, Paul C. Meng, reached the college. Meng was born in Yung Ching, China, near Peking, and there spent his childhood. At the age of fourteen, he went to Tientsin, a large seaport in China, where he continued his education, begun at Yung Ching. After completing his preparatory course at Tientsin, he went to Tsing Hua College at Peking, from which he graduated in 1919. He has now come to America and is preparing at Davidson for the work ahead of him in his native land. Meng is a man of ability. His pleasing manner and smiling face have already won him many friends on the campus. It is surprising how well he speaks the English language, having never been in this country before, but he speaks it as well as almost any of us. We extend to him a hearty welcome to Davidson College and trust that he will find a warm place in the heart of the whole student body.

CALENDAR.

* Thursday Night, 7:30—Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting.
* Friday—Davidson vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest, N. C.
* Friday Night—Movies.
* Saturday Night—Literary Societies.
* Sunday Morning, 10:00—Bible Classes.
* Sunday Night, 7:00—Y” Service.
* Monday Night—Freshman Literary Societies.

Trinity College is to be congratulated on securing a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the National scholarship fraternity.

To Begin His Work To be Head of Biology Department--- A Man of Wide Experience

Prof. Murray H. Hunt is the latest addition to the faculty of Davidson. He comes to us to be the head of the Department of Biology after fourteen years of experience in teaching. Most of this time was spent in New England. Prof. Hunt graduated from Tufts University with the B.S. degree, and has done post-graduate work at Harvard and at Danbury Normal. In the short time that he has been here, Prof. Hunt has already started a very marked efficiency in the classroom and laboratory, and is fast becoming popular with the students who know him. We feel sure that his work here will be very highly successful.

CAMPUSISMS.

Dr. Sentelle attended Presbytery at Steele Creek last week.

From current reports, R. L. L. “visited” Chambers one night last week. Bethea “received” the same evening. (With apologies to the Peanut Parcheer).

H. C. Hamilton, ‘20, spent last week at his home in High Point. While there, he made a trip to North Wilkesboro.

“Ground Hog” Miller, ‘21, recently honored his home town with a visit.

Among those in the Infirmary during the past week were Robt. Sydenstricker, Hugh Smith, J. T. Johnson, and W. W. Roberts.

Judging from the looks of things last Saturday afternoon, Davidson must have suddenly become co-ed.

D.C. boys loaded the 7:11 Saturday till it was scarcely able to “navigate.” Oh, but wasn’tKeith's swell? See Boney. We are glad to report a diminishing of the “heavy artillery,” but sorry to note the coming scarcity of pears. Bethea was present at the game Saturday afternoon.

Tim Pharr, ’12, assisted Coach Crayton Friday afternoon with the squad. Pharr was an all-State man when he was here.

The boys who are “walking off” certain tickets report aforesaid tickets are getting harder and harder as the days roll by.

“Bugs” Robinson went to society Saturday night, September 20.

MURDER OF COLORED MAN OCCURS NEAR CAMPUS.

A severe shock was felt, especially by the colored people of the Davidson community, upon hearing of the sudden death of one of their younger members at 5 a.m. Friday. George Patterson was fatally wounded on the night before his death. Of course, the facts of the case are being withheld until the trial. It is general information that through some difficulty of hidden origin the deceased became involved in a serious scrap with another employee down at the oil mill. The death blow was given by a broomstick, supposedly in self-defense. The defendant is now held in Charlotte until the course of justice has been decided.

Heart-to-Head Magazine

Prof. M. H. Hunt Arrives

Red and Black Machine Trounces Guilford, 33 to 0

Davidson Wins First Game of Season Before Large and Enthusiastic Crowd—Spectacular Runs by Cassell and Shepherd

In a somewhat one-sided, but nevertheless hard-fought game, the Wildcats opened their 1919 football season by defeating the scrappy Guilford team 33 to 0. Coach Crayton’s men won their victory almost entirely by straight football. Only once, and then in the third quarter, did they open up their famous aerial attack. Black, Cassell, and Shepherd were shining stars in the backfield, with Lacy McAlister running the team like a veteran at quarter. Hammett's work in the line was especially spectacular, although the whole line showed up well. The entire scrub team was substituted in the last quarter and showed up unusually well. The Guilford team, though handicapped by lack of weight and the dusty field, put up a hard, clean fight all the way through, winning the goodwill of their opponents as well as the spectators. Stafford, Pulliam, and Bernard showed up especially well all through the game. The game by plays is as follows:

First Quarter.

Davidson wins north end of field. Stafford kicked off 50 yards to Shepherd, who returned 15. Cassell went around tackle for 30 yards, Black fumbled but recovered. Shepherd gained 20 around right end and Cassell followed with 5 around left. Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. Davidson's ball on Guilford’s 25-yard line. Cassell gained three yards over left tackle; Black hit right tackle for a yard. Cassell failed on an attempt to drop kick. Guilford’s ball. Tremaine gained yards around end; Stafford bucked center for 4; Pulliam lost 1; Stafford gained 1. Ball goes over. Shepherd failed to gain on a fake play; Black took 40 yards over right tackle, Cassell gained 5 around left end; Guilford penalized 5 yards, offside. First down. Black went 3 over tackle; Cassell failed to gain, Black gains 2 over tackle and 4 around end. Ball goes over. Stafford hit right guard for three yards but failed to gain on a second attempt. Stafford punted 35 yards to McAlister, who returned 18. Davidson's ball on Guilford's 29-yard line.

Second Quarter.

Cassell lost 1 yard around left end; Black went 4 over tackle. McAlister gained 9 on an end run and Shepherd made it first down. Cassell made 9 yards around end, Black made it first down with three more. Black hit right tackle for a touchdown. Cassell kicked goal, D.C. 7; Guilford 0. Shepherd kicked off 45 yards to Stafford, who returned 22. Stafford bucked the line for 1 yard, Tremaine failed to gain. Stafford punted 35 yards to Black, who was downed in his tracks. McAlister gained 9 on an end run; Cassell made it first down. Cassell raced around left end for 33 yards. Time out for Guilford; Barnard. Shepherd hit right guard for 7 yards; a pass to Miley failed. Half over, D.C. 7; Guilford 0.

Third Quarter.

Shepherd kicked off 30 yards to Barnard, who was downed in his tracks. Stafford failed to gain on an end run but took 30 on a fake play. Both teams offside. A pass to Smith netted 10 yards; Miley threw Tremaine for a 5-yard loss. Stafford hit tackle for 2 yards and Tremaine added 3 more. Stafford punted to McAlister, who returned to Guilford’s 45-yard line. Black gained 8 yards off tackle; Cassell tore off 15 around left end. Cassell thrown for 3-yard loss. A forward pass to Douglass gained 13 yards and was followed by another to Shepherd, who ran 20 yards for a touchdown. Cassell kicked goal. D.C. 14; Guilford 0. Cassell kicked off to Anderson, who returned to 40-yard line. Stafford bucked the line for 7 yards; Rice failed to gain. Murray intercepted an attempted forward pass and ran 45 yards for a touchdown. Cassell failed to kick goal. D.C. 20; Guilford 0. McAlister kicked off to Barnard, who returned to his own 35-yard line. Tremaine failed to gain over tackle; Barnard hit center for 3 yards. On the next play Stafford was thrown for a 1-yard loss. Stafford’s attempted punt was broken up and Davidson recovered the ball. Murray took 2 around end; Miley, W., made 7 over right guard. A forward pass failed. McAlister gained 3 around right end; Murray added 3 over tackle.

Fourth Quarter.

Murray hit tackle for 2 yards; Miley, W., bucked the line for 3 and then repeated for a touchdown. Brady failed to kick goal. D.C. 26; Guilford 0. Martin kicked off to Rice, who returned 10 yards. Tremaine lost two yards in two attempts; McFadden intercepted a forward pass but was downed in his tracks. McFadden hit tackle for 4 yards; Martin made it first down with 6 more. Nimocks made 3 over center; McFadden added 3 over left tackle; Martin made it first down. McFadden went over tackle for five yards and Martin shot around right end for a touchdown. McFadden kicked out and kicked goal. D.C. 33; Guilford 0. Martin kicked off to Rice, who was downed in his tracks. Stafford failed to gain; a pass was no good, and Stafford’s punt was broken up. Davidson's ball on Guilford’s 30-yard line. Barnard intercepted a forward pass and ran 5 yards. Tremaine failed to gain. Game over. Final score: D.C. 33; Guilford 0.

Line-up:
D.C.                Guilford
Miley               L. E.                Roberson
Hammett        L. T.                Taylor
Romefelt        L. G.                Cox
Brady              C.                    Newlin
LaFar              R. G.                Shore
McMaster       R. T.                Anderson
Douglas          R. E.                Barnard
McAlister        Q. B.                Pulliam
Cassell            R. H.                Tremaine
Black              L. H.                Rice
Shepherd        F. B.                Stafford

Substitutions: Guilford—Barnard for Pulliam, Raeford for Barnard, Smith for Raeford. Davidson—Murray for Black, Nimocks for Shepherd; Harris for Miley, W. Miley for Cassell, Black for Douglass, Davis for Hammett, Worth for McMasters, Shaw for Romefelt, Feary for LaFar, Martin for Miley, McFadden for Murray, Long for Brady, Dick for McAlister. Time of quarters: 10, 12, 10, 12. Officials: Referee, Denny (V. P. I.); Umpire, Long (U. of N. C.); Head Linesman, Miles; Timekeeper, Reed.

POPULAR DOCTOR SOON TO RETURN WITH BRIDE.

On Monday evening, September 15, Dr. J. J. Withers, our college physician, was married to Miss Julia McCoy of Hopewell, N. C., the ceremony being performed at the Hopewell Methodist church. The bride and groom are now in the North on their honeymoon, but after September 25 they will be at home, Davidson, N.C.

REMEMBER, FELLOWS, EVERYBODY SPEAKS ON OUR CAMPUS.