THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

WEDDINGS! WEDDINGS!

Lassiter-Sloan.
Miss Sallie Cooke Lassiter, of Aulander, N. C., and Dr. William Henry Sloan, ex-'10, were married on Tuesday, November 18,
1919. They will make their home in Garland, N. C.

Salliston-Shaw.
Miss Alma Coston Salliston and Mr. John Shaw, ex-'12, were married Thursday, November 27, 1919, at Mayesville, N.C. They will
be at home after December 6 at 24 Wrightsville Avenue, Wilmington, N. C.

Cox-Bachman.
P. H. Bachman, ex-'15, was married to Miss Ruth Cox, on the first day of November. Mr. Bachman is connected
with the Sterchie Bros. Furniture Company, of Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

A. S. Potts, ex-'19, is doing a thriving insurance business in New Orleans.

Clewell Howell, '19, who was on the campus during Senior Speaking, is now teaching school at Belmont, N. C.

F. M. Mitchell, ex-'17, has just received his discharge from the regular Army of the United States, having spent fifteen
months on the Mexican Border patrolling the Rio Grande. Each patrol ran from fifteen to twenty miles and was ridden
at night to prevent Mexican raids.

A. T. Cashion, '17, is a cotton broker in Gastonia, N.C.

The following alumni of Davidson were on the Hill for Senior Speaking: R. D. Hall '19, L. C. McAskill '19,
L. B. McKeithen '19, Page Harris ex-'20, C. H. Wilson '19, J. E. McKeithen '18, J. C. McDonald '15, John
Lewis Payne '16, Jim Carson '16, Emery Flinn '19, N. Y. Pharr '19, A. M. Inman '19, J. E. McQueen
ex-'20, T. H. Belk ex-'20, C. Howell '19, L. C. McAskill, '19, B. McKeithen '19, T. M. Meisenheimer '18.

A. C. Burns, ex-'19, is now in the hardware business in Sumter, S. C., a partner in the firm of
Burns and Son.

Alfred Scarborough, '16, president of the Davidson student-body in his Senior year, is now farming near Eastover, S. C.

N. B. Boney, ex-'17, was licensed by the State Legal Board in August and is a member of the firm
of Gavin, Blanton, and Boney, of Kenansville, N. C. He will take up his Theological study next fall.

Robert S. Clary, ex-'14, is still in the Aviation service at Park Field, Millington, Tenn. He has won various ratings
including M.S.E., A.M., and 2nd Lieut., and is both Pilot and Aeronautical Engineer.

Capt. G. R. Patrick, ex-'13, has returned from France after several months of service overseas, and has resumed his medical
practice in Bessemer City, N.C. Capt. Patrick received a part of his military training with the Royal Army Medical Corps
in England, and did first-aid work at the British front during the last five months of the war. After the
Armistice, he remained with the British Army in their reconstruction work in Belgium.

Lock White, '13, is pastor of the Presbyterian church at Blacksburg, Va., where the Virginia Polytechnic Institute is located.

Colonel Robert B. Hill, '10, with Mrs. Hill, was one of the Saturday visitors. Col. Hill will remain in the
Medical department of the service and will be located in Texas.

A Gateway—Electrical

ONLY a forty-foot gateway bounded by two brick pilasters and ornamental lamps, but unlike any other gateway in the entire
world.

For back of it is the General Electric Company’s main office building, accommodating 2300 employees. And just next door is
its laboratory with the best equipment for testing, standardizing and research at the command of capable engineers. Then down the
street—a mile long—are other buildings where everything electrical, from the smallest lamp socket to the huge turbines for electrically propelled
battleships, is made by the 20,000 electrical workers who daily stream through.

What a story this gate would tell, if it could, of the leaders of the electrical industry and business, of
ambassadors from other institutions and from foreign lands.

The story would be the history of electric lighting, electric transportation, electric industrials and electricity in the home.

This gateway, as well as the research, engineering, manufacturing and commercial resources back of it, is open to all who
are working for the betterment of the electrical industry.

Illustrated bulletin, Y-863, describing the company’s several plants, will be mailed upon request. Address General Electric Company, Desk 43, Schenectady,
New York.

General Electric Company
General Office Schenectady, N.Y.
Sales Offices in all large cities.

L. B. Long, ex-'16, is with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company at 30 W. North Avenue, Atlanta, Ga.

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats

You will find our Stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear---the Best of Quality.

Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts

We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU!

Mail orders attended to promptly.
MELLON’S
3 WEST TRADE ST.

GREETINGS

Christmas and New Year, Announcements and Monograms. Select your Christmas Cards NOW. When in Charlotte call and see what we
have to offer.

Queen City Printing Company
14 and 16 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

PEPSI-COLA
Stimulating Exhilarating

L. B. LONG
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold
