The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

The Passing of Cinderella

The quaint little childhood tale of the poor kitchen maid is not so far removed from recent reality. For we all recall the staggering piles of dishes, the dust-strewn floor, the tubs of clothes, the treadmill task at the sewing machines! Yes, Cinderella-like was the housework of yesterday. And now, the girl of 1920 looks to electricity—most tractable of handmaidens—as the fairy prince who makes life easier and fuller. Just a push of the button—and tiny electric motors sweep, wash dishes or clothes; clean, scour and polish. While the motors do the work, other electric appliances are distributed about the house to make good living more convenient. Electric cooking utensils, hair driers, cigar lighters, burglar alarms, doorbells, and furnace regulators are now operated by the magic wand of electric power. The development of the miniature motors for the kitchen and electrical devices was made possible by the rapid progress in experience gained by the General Electric Company's Engineers, whose efforts in the application of electricity for every sort of industrial endeavor during the past quarter century have brought freedom from the drudgery of other days.

General Electric
General Office
Schenectady, NY.

R. O. T. C. News

Sick report: Members of the R. O. T. C. who desire to attend sick call will report at the office of P. M.S. & T. at 8 a.m., and have their names entered on the sick report. At sick call, they will be conducted to the surgeon by an N.C.O., who will return the sick report to the R. O. T. C. headquarters after the surgeon has signed the same. Students desiring to see the surgeon at any hour other than sick call will report at R. O. T. C. headquarters and have their names entered on the sick report; and will be conducted to the surgeon as above indicated. Failure to carry out this requirement will result in a delinquency report.

Morning report: Each captain will be responsible for keeping the morning report of his company. He will submit the same daily to P. M.S. & T. at 1 p.m. The report will be kept at R. O. T. C. headquarters, where captains will find desk room for their work.

Demerits will be charged for offenses as follows:
1. Late at formation, 1.
2. Absent from formation, 3.
3. Clothing or equipment improperly adjusted, 1.
4. Shoes not oiled or shined, 1.
5. Not properly shaved, 1.
6. Failing to execute drill movement properly through inattention, 2.
7. Slouching in ranks, 2.
8. Trifling conduct, 2.
9. Failure to salute, 2.
10. Rifle not properly cleaned, 1.
11. Dirty rifle, 4.

Uniform: Unless otherwise ordered, students will turn out for drill in the O. D. uniform without blouse or overcoat. Uniform for P. T. for freshmen: White undershirt, O. D. Shirt, gymnasium shoes, full-length gymnasium trousers. In cold weather, the coat or overcoat may be worn to the gymnasium as ordered. Members of the R. O. T. C. are requested to keep a copy of these orders.

DAVIDSON R. O. T. C. NEWS.

The R. O. T. C. was organized at Davidson last spring after the demobilization of the S. A. T. C. with Colonel Mueller in command. Colonel Mueller is the finest type of officer and is working hard to make the Davidson unit one of the best in the South and of the greatest benefit to those taking it. Organization for the year was started last Friday with six companies instead of three as last year. The first battalion is composed of three companies from the upper classes. The second battalion is composed of three companies from the freshman class. At the beginning of the second term, the companies will be reorganized with the freshmen and upperclassmen together. Instead of five hours a week drill as last year, there will be only three hours a week. Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays are the drill days. Uniforms and full packs will be issued to each man. A supply of rifles consisting of 250 Springfields and 250 Enfields is in the armory ready to be issued.

Colonel Mueller makes the following appointments:
First Battalion,
Captains—Harris, Spann, Hall, W. F.
First Lieutenants—McKelkin, J. R., Black, R. L., Davis, A. J., Matthews, C. J.
Second Lieutenants—Wilson, T. H., Foster, J. K., Wiley, J. D.
First Sergeants—Mason, A. D., Cummings, W. P., Finley.
Supply Sergeants—Sutton, P. G., Spence, Murphy, S. W.
Sergeants—McKeldin, W. G., McMaster, Thomas, Caldwell, Hamilton, Tremain, Gaither.
Corporals—Boney, Scott, Kornegay, McConnell, McGirt, Lowry, McIlwaine, Craig, Pool, R. H., Wilkinson, Humphrey, Booker, Clyburn, Long, C. L., Cassell, Clark, J. F., Forgey, D. S., Johnson, J. S., Ormond, A. C., Curry, J. S., Thompson, C. A., Smith, Fred, Epps.

Second Battalion,
Major—Hall, W. M.
Captains—Sample, Shields, Taylor.
First Lieutenants—Schenck, L. B., Rogers, R. L., Boulware.
Second Lieutenants—McAskill, J. C., Miley, W. H., Gaston, G. M.
First Sergeants—Foscue, A. L., Walker, J. R., Cummings, W. P.
Supply Sergeants—Harrell, W. H., Sullivan, W. B., Askew, S. H.
Sergeants—Doubles, M., Geachy, D. P., Phillips, J. W., Mitchell, Miley, G. E., Vance, C. R., Brown, J. L., Liston, R. E. L., McAskill, C. M.
Corporals—Denny, Horton, Carmichael, Sprunt, Breitenhirt, McFadden, Fischell, Nash, C. A., Brown, C. K., Boaz, T. A., Currie, A. L., LaPharr, Massey, O. E., Brice, Price, J. P., Wright, J., Ormond, A. P., Cornelian, Toms, Fraleigh, Grantham.

RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENT, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

1. All violations of these rules and regulations and neglects affecting the discipline of the military department will be followed by disciplinary measures as indicated herein:
Absence.
2. All military instruction lost through absence for any cause must be made up unless especially excused by the faculty. The hours lost will be made up afternoons during recreation periods.
3. Absence without leave will be recorded on college records and will not be removed.
4. Students are cautioned that absence without leave may cause forfeiture of degree, dismissal from the college, or such other punishment as the professor of military science and tactics may direct as outlined herein.
5. Cadets absent without leave will report in person to the Professor of Military Science and Tactics on the day of publication.of such delinquency at 9:25 A.M., or during the first period thereafter in which they are not required to attend recitation.

Adjutant:
6. The Adjutant will typewrite the list of absentees and deliver the same to the Professor of Military Science and Tactics not later than 9:20 A.M. daily, except on those days when there is no military instruction. He will consolidate the delinquency list and submit the same to the Professor of Military Science and Tactics by 9:00 P.M. daily. He will write and publish all orders in the name of the battalion commander as directed by the Professor of Military Science and Tactics.

Bulletin Board:
7. The R.O.T.C. Bulletin Board is located in Chambers, just inside the North door.
8. All members of the R.O.T.C. are requested to inspect the same daily, except Sunday, between noon and 5:00 P.M., and will be responsible for compliance with all orders posted thereon.

Delinquency:
9. A delinquency list will be published each day at the formation of the battalion and will be posted on the bulletin board.
10. Explanations will be submitted orally to the Professor of Military Science and Tactics at his office daily at 9:25 A.M. Cadets prevented from reporting at this hour will report during the first vacant period thereafter. Failure to report will result in an additional report for this neglect. A copy of the final daily delinquency record will be furnished to the President for his information.
11. All delinquencies will be recorded on college records unless removed for cause. An unsatisfactory delinquency record will result in forfeiture of degree, dismissal from the college, or such other punishment as the Faculty may direct.

Equipment:
12. All members of the R.O.T.C. will be held responsible for the proper care and cleanliness of all equipment issued to them for their use. Careless or malicious damage to equipment will be charged to the individual concerned and will be followed by appropriate disciplinary action.

Formations:
13. At assembly, the companies will habitually form in line facing South, in front of Dormitory Row, in order from right to left, A, B, C, D. Prior to dismissal, the companies will be formed in line facing West, on campus along the North and South walk near Church. They will not be dismissed until so ordered by the battalion commander. Cadets will be required to appear at all formations in the prescribed uniform; the same to be clean and properly adjusted, shoes oiled or shined.

Orders:
14. All orders by Cadet officers and non-commissioned officers at any time in the name of the P.M.S.T. will be strictly obeyed.

Punishments:
15. Demerits will be recorded for all delinquencies not removed pursuant to satisfactory explanation.
16. Cadets who receive ten demerits in any month will be cited to appear before the Faculty in addition to serving punishment ordered.
17. In addition to the demerits given, punishments will take the following form according to the nature of the offense:
(a) Restrictions of limits of the Hill for a certain number of days. Cadets will be placed on honor to observe the restriction ordered, and a violation of the same will be cause for dismissal.
(b) Denial of privileges pertaining to leave of absence, athletics, glee club, and the like.
(c) Punishment tours of thirty minutes duration each. Cadets will be posted as sentinels under arms and required to walk post on the campus as prescribed in the Manual of Interior Guard Duty.

Recitations:
18. Recitations will be marked as follows: E.-90-100; V.-85-90; G.-80-85; F.-75-80; P.-70-75; D.-below 70; P.-60-75, Freshmen only; D.-below 60, Freshmen only. Letters signify: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Proficient, Deficient.
19. Cadets whose recitation is deficient and who, in the opinion of the instructor, have failed to study, will be reported on the delinquency list.

Recitation Room Courtesy:
20. When a superior officer or a professor enters or leaves the classroom, the instructor will command “Attention” and ALL will rise and remain at “Attention” until the visitor takes his seat, indicates his wishes, or leaves the room.

Reports:
21. Under the supervision of the battalion commander, the Adjutant will receive the reports of roll call immediately after assembly. For this purpose, he will take post opposite the center of the battalion. Company commanders will report absentees and total number present to him in writing at this time. While company commanders are reporting to the Adjutant, the second in command will march the companies to the drill ground and conduct the drill until the arrival of the company commander who will rejoin his command promptly. Company commanders will submit delinquency lists, showing names of officers and N.C.O.s, making the reports to the Adjutant at R.O.T.C. headquarters at 2:00 P.M. daily.
22. Each company officer and N.C.O. will submit his signed list of delinquencies to his company commander prior to 1:50 P.M. daily. These lists may be written in pencil but must be legible. Examples:
Jones, K. Late at drill.
Smith, J. Slouching in ranks.
Doe, J. K. Failing to execute squads right properly at drill.
Wall, W. Dirty rifle.
Not properly prepared for recitation.
L.D.R. Shoes not shined at drill.
Grease spot on breeches at drill.
Not properly shaved at drill.
Etc., Etc., Etc.
23. All Cadet officers and N.C.O.s are required to report neglects at drills and recitations. These reports should be made without fear or favor, and with justice and impartiality.
24. Cadets are prohibited from quitting their command after assembly without authority of the company commander, and then only for a necessary purpose. Company commanders will report all cadets who fall out as follows:
“Quitting drill by authority.”
“Quitting drill without authority.”

Sick:
25. Sick cadets who are excused by the Doctor, but not taken into the Infirmary, will be required to remain in their quarters (rooms) during the remainder of the day except when going to and returning from meals, baths, or toilets.
26. Time allowed for meals from time of leaving room to return to quarters is one hour.
27. Cadets are placed on honor to observe the requirements of Pars. 25 and 26. Use of the sick report to avoid duty is but an act of deceit and should be scrupulously avoided.

(Continued on Page 8)