The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 10, 1919

ALUMNI PAGE

Dr. Shearer, Noted Christian Educator Passes Away.
End Came Quietly During Past Summer at His Home in Davidson.

The many friends and acquaintances of Dr. J. B. Shearer were grieved to learn of his death on the 14th
of last June. Dr. Shearer lacked only a month and five days of being 87 years old. His death came
after a lingering illness of several months. The funeral services were conducted in the Davidson College Church by Dr. C.
M. Richards and Dr. Wilson McKay. Remarks were made by Dr. W. J. Martin and Dr. C. R. Harding.

The importance of Dr. Shearer's work in behalf of Christian education can hardly be over-estimated. As president of Stewart College
in Clarkesville, Tenn., Dr. Shearer succeeded in putting that institution on the firm financial footing which has enabled it to
do such good work as Southwestern Presbyterian University. Leaving Southwestern he came to take up the duties of President of
Davidson College at a time when it had reached its lowest ebb of popularity. During his thirteen years of service
in this capacity he not only doubled the number of students attending the college but laid the foundation for all
of its subsequent growth. In addition to this work, he has given buildings on the campuses of Davidson College, Mitchell
College, and Southwestern Presbyterian University, as well as thousands of dollars to other schools, churches, and hospitals.

Perhaps Dr. Shearer's greatest work, however, was as the founder of the chair of English Bible in the Christian schools
and colleges of the country. He himself was a Bible teacher, whom few ever equaled, and his teaching as well
as his saintly life was an inspiration to hundreds of students. In addition to his work as a teacher, Dr.
Shearer wrote a number of books on Bible study, in defense of the Christian religion, and in behalf of Christian
education.

Dr. Shearer has for so many long years been an outstanding figure in the Southern Assembly and has been so
prominently connected with the Church’s work, notably in its educational departments, that the main facts of his life are on
record in many publications. They have appeared in print so often as to call for only the briefest mention here.
These facts are given at some length and in appreciative form in a biographical sketch prepared by the late Rev.
Dr. J. Rumple, of Salisbury, for the Biographical History of North Carolina, Vol. VIII (Ashe, Weeks, VanNoppen).

John Bunyan Shearer was born in Appomattox County, Va., July 19, 1832. He was the oldest son of the seven
children of John Akers Shearer and his wife, Ruth Akers Webber. The Akers were Welsh stock, the Webbers Dutch, the
Shearers English Puritan, so that the subject of this sketch was a composite of three nationalities in equal proportion. He
was educated at Hampden-Sidney College (A.B., A.M., '49-’51) and at the University of Virginia (A.M., ’51-’54). His record at both
institutions was prophetic of the distinction that was to mark all of his subsequent life. After teaching a year, he
entered Union Theological Seminary, Virginia, from which institution he was graduated in '57. He acted as stated supply for several
churches in Virginia prior to being called to the pastorate at Chapel Hill, where he remained from '58 to '62.
From '62 to '70 he was stated supply at Spring Hill and Mt. Carmel churches, Halifax County, Va. While here
he established and conducted the Cluster Springs High School, an institution that still lives and continues under other managements to
testify to his wisdom in its founding. In '70 he was called to the presidency of Stewart College, and thence
to occupy the same position at Davidson in '88.

Dr. Shearer was honored with the degree of D.D. by Hampden-Sidney College, and with the degree of LL.D. by the
Southwestern Presbyterian University. No sketch of Dr. Shearer's life would be complete at all or meet with any approval from
him—could his voice be heard or his thought expressed—that did not make mention of his beloved wife, Lizzie Gessner, who
was of foreign birth. He married her in 1854, before he finished his education. He loved and cherished her with
a devotion and a tenderness that was beautiful, touching, and exemplary beyond words. He always said that under God she
was his inspiration and his strength. Mrs. Shearer died in January, 1903. As a memorial to her, Dr. Shearer remodeled
or one may say rebuilt the “Old Chapel,” now known on the Davidson campus as the Shearer Biblical Hall. He
also edited “Prayer Meeting Papers,” prepared by Mrs. Shearer, intending the book which contains a sketch of her life as
a memory volume.

Mr. James W. Osborne, Noted Alumnus, Dies in New York.
Death Quite a Surprise to His Family and Friends.

Davidson was saddened on Monday last to learn of the death of one of its best-known alumni, Mr. James W.
Osborne, '79, whose death occurred in Sherman Square Hotel, New York, Saturday night. Mr. Osborne was a former Assistant District
Attorney of New York City, and a widely known criminal lawyer. He was found dead in his apartments in the
hotel on Sunday morning by his son, who had spent the night with relatives, while Mrs. Osborne was visiting her
father. The cause of his death was given as angina pectoris.

Mr. Osborne was sixty-one years old and was born in Charlotte, N. C. He came to New York when he
was twenty-five years old, and five years later entered the District Attorney's office. He served under different district attorneys for
fourteen years, later entering private practice. He helped New York prosecute Harry K. Thaw. While Assistant District Attorney, Mr. Osborne
gained fame by successfully prosecuting Albert T. Palmer, the murderer of the aged millionaire, William Marsh Rice. Particulars of his
death have not been learned, but it is supposed that it came suddenly, as his friends and relatives had heard
nothing of his illness. His brother, who resides in Charlotte, left immediately for New York. Funeral services will be held
today.

SUMMER WEDDINGS AMONG THE ALUMNI.

W. B. McGirt, '13, to Miss Otta Clove Moyer, of Darlington, S. C.
* * *
Davis W. Lane, '17, to Miss Margaret Alice Stevenson, of Jacksonville, Fla.
* * *
Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, '15, to Miss Georgia E. Gifford, of Springfield, Vt.
* * *
Walter H. Paine, '15, to Miss Ethel Kimball, of Washington, D. C.
* * *
William Joseph Roddey, Jr., ex-'14, to Miss Mary Kell, of Birmingham, Ala.
* * *
R. C. Clontz, ex-'21, to Miss Venice Willia, of Mt. Pleasant, N. C.
* * *
J. T. Williams, '16, to Miss Mattie Sparrow, of Beaufort County, N. C.
* * *
Dr. D. H. Nisbet, '13, to Miss Thelma Russell, of Marlborough, Mass.
* * *
J. W. Pratt, '08, to Miss Louisa Williamson, of Asheville, N. C.
* * *
A. A. Waite to Miss Alice Massey, of Bloomingdale, Ga.
* * *
Maj. T. P. Sprunt, '03, to Miss Katherine Pryor, of Lynchburg, Va.
* * *
J. R. McGregor, '14, to Miss May Wilson, of St. Charles, S. C.
* * *
Eugene Alexander, '12, to Miss Ruth Withers, of Norfolk, Va.

An event of the early fall will be the marriage of Miss Gwyn Ewell Dick and the Rev. Pierre Wilds
DuBose, which will be solemnized on the evening of September 24 in the First Presbyterian church. Following the ceremony, a
brilliant reception will be held at the home of the bride’s parents on Senate street. The bride will be attended
by her cousin, Miss Caroline Dick, of Sumter, as maid of honor, and by her sisters, Misses Emily and Margaret
Dick, and her friends, Miss Jane Barron and Miss Marion Wassum, of Greenville, as bridesmaids. Louis Anderson, of Anderson, will
be Mr. DuBose’s best man and the groomsmen will be Pete Crayton, of Charlotte; Leroy Barron, of Rock Hill; William
Thompson, of Rock Hill, and Ted Henderson, of Aiken County. The ushers will be the Rev. Donald A. Swicord, of
Climax, Ga.; the Rev. John Gillespie, of Beaufort; the Rev. William Riviere, of Athens, Ga., and Dr. Reed Smith, of
Columbia.

Miss Dick is the accomplished daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George Hassell Dick. She is a musician of exceptional talent,
being not only a splendid pianist but the composer of a number of sketches for piano. Her host of friends
in Columbia regret that her marriage will take her elsewhere to live. Mr. DuBose is well known in Columbia, having
graduated from the Columbia Theological Seminary last spring andSince that time, he has been in charge of a group of
churches in Barnwell County—Barnwell, Denmark, Bamberg, and Blackwell. Mr. DuBose was born in Soochow, China, where his father has for
many years been a missionary of the Presbyterian Church. The son expects to go to the same field, leaving probably
early in 1920.—The Columbia Record.

The above announcement of the engagement of Pierre DuBose, '14, will be read with interest by every alumnus who had
the pleasure of being associated with and knowing him while in college. Mr. DuBose was very popular in college, both
among the students and among the faculty, and the best wishes of all go with him as he leaves for
his new field of work.

ALUMNI PARAGRAPHS.
By Robert M. Miller, Jr.

After the most faithful and efficient work on the part of the “Staff,” it is most gratifying to know that
the “Davidsonian” is now on its feet—good and solid. Let us see that it is again not “crippled.”

Without attempting any invidious comparison, much credit is due to Mr. Carl Matthews, business manager, for his earnest and energetic
work, and this success is due largely to his persistent and well-directed efforts.

Hence, patrons of the College always feel that their boys are ‘safe’ at Davidson. The athletic friends of the College
regret the loss of Coach Fetzer, but all feel that it has secured an able, loyal, and experienced successor in
Major Crayton, and that athletics has received thereby a distinct forward move rather than a backset.

Watch the athletic record for 1919-1920.

The following Davidson alumni are on the faculty of the Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, of Port Gibson, Miss.: Rev. J. W. Lafferty,
’85, department of English; J. B. Daffin, '18, department of Chemistry and Physics; and G. M. Robson, ’19, department of
Latin.

J. R. Dunn, '18, of Camden, S. C., graduated from Johns Hopkins last commencement and is now interned at St.
Elizabeth’s Hospital, Richmond, Va.

F. S. Key, ex-’20, is traveling for the American Tobacco Company, covering South Carolina territory.

G. A. Byrd, ex-’20, and T. S. Burgess, ex-’20, are at the College of Charleston, Charleston, S. C., this year.

A. M. Inmann, ‘19, was on the hill a few days last week. “Jeff” is selling Anderson cars this year.

J. H. Miller, Jr., '19, spent several days on the hill last week. He intends to soon enter Harvard University
for a business course.

O. P. Hart, '19, has returned to Davidson to work for an M.A. degree.

A. G. Finley, '18, will go into the lumber business this fall at North Wilkesboro, N. C.

S. M. Davis, '18, received his discharge from the Navy on July 3, after twelve months of service. He will
enter Harvard University this fall to study law.

F. P. Hall, ex-19, was on the hill last Saturday. He has successfully completed his first year at the United
States Naval Academy, at Annapolis.

W. A. Johnson, ‘16, has been discharged from the army and has returned to Berry School, Rome, Ga. Before enlisting,
Mr. Johnson was a teacher in this school and is now assistant treasurer.

C. B. Whiteside, ex-'19, is now assistant physical director in the Atlanta Y. M. C. A.

On the McCallie faculty are found two recent graduates of Davidson: R. Woods, '18, who is professor of Latin, and
C. B. Robson, ’19, who is professor of chemistry and assistant coach.

H. M. Grey, '18, who has been assisting Coach Crayton, will soon return to Bailey Military Institute to take up
his work as coach and professor of Physics.

Terrell E. Guy, ex-’20, died at the University of Tennessee during the last college year. Particulars have not been received.

S. A. Ewart, '13, was married in July last and will go to Korea for mission work, representing the Second
Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N.C.

R. M. Pegram, ’11, has removed from Moultrie, Ga., to Hazard, Ky., where he is pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

D. Treloar Wearn, ‘13, is now a member of the staff of the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington City.

Harry McCaskill, ex-'15, is in Dayton, Ohio, taking a course in salesmanship with the National Cash Register Company.

Capt. J. R. Minter, ‘14, of the Fifth Battalion, Sixth Marines, has recently returned from overseas. He saw twelve months
of service overseas, being in action at Belleau Wood and at Chateau Thierry. Mr. Minter is preparing to stand examination
for a consulate.

W. H. Boggs, ‘07, is now pastor of the Arsenal Hill Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S. C. Since Mr. Boggs
has taken the pastorate of this church, it has made wonderful strides forward and has changed from a small dormant
congregation to a live, wide-awake, and progressive congregation of earnest Christian workers.

George King, '18, is working for E. W. King & Co. in Bristol, Tenn.

Archie McKeithan, ‘16, is interned at Union Protestant Infirmary, Baltimore, Md. He will graduate from Johns Hopkins in 1920.

Among the alumni who were on the hill during the past week was Alex. Sprunt, ex-'18. Alex. is now working
in Charlotte for Alexander Sprunt and Sons.

W. H. Cullum, ’19, spent the opening day of college on the hill. He intends to enter Harvard University and
take a business course this year.

G. P. Scott, ’19, who is now working in Statesville, was in Davidson a few days last week.

Wilson Cosby, '15, one of Davidson's best football players, paid a visit to the campus last Sunday. At present, he
is working in Charlotte.

Among the alumni who were present at the freshman reception on last Monday evening were Reese Jenkins, N. Y. Pharr,
’19, E. Flinn, '19, A. C. Burns, ex-'19, C. H. Wilson, ex-’19, T. M. Misenheimer, '18, A. C. Woods, ex-’18,
A. B. Reese, '17.

Among the alumni present at the freshman reception was Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., '76, of Charlotte, N. C. Mr.
Miller is president of the Davidson Alumni Association and one of the truest friends the College has. His interest and
hearty support have contributed very largely to the success of Davidson College. When called upon for a speech at the
reception, Mr. Miller replied with a few well-chosen remarks.

J. E. McQueen, ex-'19, was a visitor on the Hill last Monday. He intends to enter the University of Virginia
this session.

Let’s Get Busy at Once on Orchestra and Glee Club
Several Old Men Back; Fresh Class Should Furnish Good Material.

It is customary each year for Davidson to put out a Glee Club and Orchestra. With ten or twelve of
last year's members back, prospects seem rather bright for a good club. A lack of talent and material last season
made it impossible to have an orchestra, but with the help of any and all men in the new freshman
class, and also the return of Freeman, who was out of college last year, it is hoped that a splendid
orchestra may be developed. All men who play or attempt to play any kind of orchestral instrument are requested to
be on hand when the first practice is announced. A Glee Club and Orchestra concert is one of the main
features of Junior and Senior speaking, and every effort will be made to get up a program better than any
of the past entertainments. The club takes numerous trips in North and South Carolina during the fall and spring sessions
of college, but no club will be taken on these trips that will not come up to the standard that
Davidson Glee Clubs have made in the past. So every follower of the musical world, either instrumental or vocal, will
be given a chance to show what is in them sometime in the near future.

HONOR ROLL.
Post Graduate.
S. T. McCloy ............... 98.00
A. R. Craig ................ 96.67

Seniors.
L. B. McKeithen ............ 97.40
E. A. Woods ................ 97.00
N. Y. Pharr ................ 96.80
W. T. Dunlap .............. 95.80
G. P. Scott ................ 95.50
E. G. O. ................... 95.20

Juniors.
D. M. Chalmers ............. 96.67
G. G. Calhoun .............. 95.50
S. H. Askew ............... 95.14

Sophomore.
C. K. Brown ............... 96.30
W. P. Cumming ............ 95.84
J. E. Cassel ............... 95.67
J. R. Boulware ............. 95.00

Freshman.
J. M. Richards ............. 96.00
W. P. Price ............... 95.00
