2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Athletic News:

Sophs Win Class Basketball Championship
Good, Clean Sport Displayed in All Contests

Sophs 47; Juniors 24.

The Sophomores became the class basketball champions Saturday afternoon by defeating the Junior team 47 to 24 in the last
game of the series. This victory gives the Sophomore team a perfect record. The game was fast and free from
fouls. Both teams were handicapped by the absence of one regular, and their places were filled by substitutes. From the
beginning, the Sophomores led and at no stage of the game were they in danger of being overtaken in scoring.
For the Sophomores, Streibich and Roberts were the chief point gatherers, while Brice and Oltman played stellar ball for the
Juniors.

Summary:
Doubles (8) - Brice (8) Right Forward
Streibich (20) - Ormond (2) Left Forward
Roberts (19) - Oltman (10) Center
Price - King (2) Right Guard
Hyland - Miley (2) Left Guard

Referee: L. C. McCaskill.

Juniors 38; Seniors 28.

In one of the hardest fought games this year, the Juniors defeated their old rivals, the Seniors, to the tune
of 38 to 28. The game was fast and interesting throughout. After a few minutes of play, the Juniors tossed
in the first basket and soon led their opponents by what seemed to be a safe margin, but the Seniors
overtook them by showing marvelous teamwork and pretty shooting. The half ended with the Juniors leading by one field goal.
In the second half, the Juniors came back strong and outclassed the Seniors in every department of the game. Their
teamwork was excellent in this period. Brice and Oltman were the Juniors’ best bets, while Hawkins and Askew were the
mainstays of the Seniors.

Juniors (38) Pos. Seniors (28)
Ormond RF Hawkins
Brice (c) LF Hamilton
Oltman C Askew
King LG Wilson
Miley RG (c) Craig

Field goals: Brice (6), Oltman (6), King (4), Ormond (3), Hawkins (5), Askew (4), Craig (2), Wilson (1), Hamilton (1).
Fouls: Askew (2).

Referee: Chalmers.

Sophs 44; Fresh 19.

On Tuesday afternoon, the Sophomores defeated the Freshmen by the decisive score of 44 to 19. The first half was
hard fought and very exciting. The Sophs caged the first few baskets but the Freshmen came back strong with dazzling
passing and soon jumped to the lead, which they held until the last few minutes of play. The Sophs, by
good teamwork, soon overcame their opponents’ lead and when the whistle blew ending the half, they were in the lead
by two baskets. The upperclassmen, by marvelous passing and shooting, soon piled up a score which the Fresh were unable
to overtake.

Sophs (44) Pos. Fresh (19)
Doubles (c) RF Toney
Roberts LF Houghton
Streibich C Mauze (c)
Irwin LG Crawford
Price RG Murchison

Field goals: Doubles (8), Roberts

Review of Past Football Season
Handicapped Most of the Time by Injuries -- Played Good Ball at Times

Davidson wound up its 1919 football season last Thursday by trimming Furman 41 to 14 in the Thanksgiving game. The
game ended a season which could hardly be called successful from a standpoint of games won, and yet with a
couple of exceptions, a season’s result satisfactory to Davidson supporters. With two or three exceptions, all the teams played are
rated in higher football circles than college football and against these teams, the Wildcats have shown their best work.

Opening the season with a rush, the Red and Black machine trounced Guilford and Wake Forest. The next two games
were dropped to Clemson and Washington and Lee by 7 to 0 scores. As an outcome of these two games,
the Wildcats lost the services of Jack Black, who suffered a broken hand. LaFar developed a bad leg and Johnny
Johnson sprained an ankle. Coming back strong, however, with a line-up conspicuous with subs, University of S. C. was beaten
on a muddy field by one touchdown. The Wildcats then lost to the flying Cadets from V. M. I. 14
to 7, Tech administered a 33 to 0 defeat and N. C. State triumphed over the Presbyterians 36 to 6.
Facing Carolina in the championship game, with Jack Black still on the sidelines, the plucky Wildcats held the White and
Blue to 10 to 0. The disappointment of the season came on November 22, when the Red and Black were
held to a scoreless tie by Presbyterian College of S.C. To offset this, however, Davidson took Furman in camp Thanksgiving
and administered a good drubbing to the tune of 41 to 14.

A summary of the scores follows:
Davidson 33 Guilford 0
Davidson 21 Wake Forest 0
Davidson 0 Clemson 7
Davidson 0 W. and L. 7
Davidson 7 U. S. C. 0
Davidson 7 V. M. I. 14
Davidson 0 Ga. Tech. 33
Davidson 6 N. C. State 36
Davidson 0 U. N. C. 10
Davidson 0 P. C. 0
Davidson 41 Furman 14

The result in games won and lost is: Won 4, lost 6, tied 1. Only 115 points were scored against
121 for her opponents. The Wildcats scored 17 touchdowns and were humiliated themselves only 16 times. Thirteen goals of the
17 tries were successful. No field goals were attempted, while opponents scored two by this method.

The team will be well shot to pieces for next year by the loss of several old D. C. stars.
Jack Black will never be seen in action in Red and Black football classics. Never before in its history has
a man brought Davidson more honor in the athletic world than this gridiron warrior. Henry Spann will also be lost
and the big question is, “Who will pilot the Wildcats now?” Pitts Douglas, fleet end, also leaves. His short career
of two years has10), Streibich (1), Price (1), Mauze (3), Toney (3), Houghton Crawford (1). Foul: Houghton (1). Referee: Chalmers.
Maj. Henry F. Blair, ex-'11, has returned from the Philippine Islands and China, where he was sent by the Government
to help in the reorganization of the Supply Department of the U.S. Army. C. W. Ansley, ex-'17, is manager of
the Ansley-Pittman Tailoring Co., of Thomasville, Ga.

MacMaster, towering tackle, will also leave. He has shown his ability to stop anything he lays hands on; few gains
are made this side of the line. Sam Brady, fighting center, is among those who bid their alma mater adieu.
Sam passes the ball with accuracy which is unbeatable. Lacy McAlister graduates, and in him, Davidson will lose one of
its best broken field runners. Lacy has made a name for himself by his wiry dodging and the way he
hits a line is fierce. Although not successful in the percentage of games won, Davidson has just experienced one of
the best football seasons in its history, and one that will reflect pride back to the alma mater for its
sportsmanlike attitude at all times. “Ground Hog” Miller has left college as he has been in bad health for some
time.

ATTENTION FOOTBALL FANS! WANT TO READ SOMETHING GOOD.

Greenwood, S.C., Nov. 27, ’19.

To Davidson’s Grand Football Team:

Accept my warmest congratulations for this glorious victory over Furman. It is wonderful, and loyal alumni all over the country
are proud, beamingly proud of you. I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that score of 42-14. I knew you
could do it; I was looking for it. I knew the grand old Davidson fighting spirit that has no equal
could not always stay down. That Scotch-Irish Presbyterian determination, confidence, and superiority could not but exert itself. That is the
pep, the fight, and the spirit that has always made Davidson famous, and that makes us all proud of our
alma mater. We forgive you now for merely tying P.C. and for not beating some of the other teams. You
have climaxed the season; you have done what others couldn't; you have trounced—trounced. You have run over, around, and through,
trampled upon, subdued, and buried all the pride, spirit, and aspiring hopes of Furman, her alumni, and friends for miles
around. I am prouder of your achievement today than of any former victory a Davidson team ever won. Here’s to
you, to the college, and to the Davidson spirit that always wins and can never die.

Cordially and always yours,
F. L. B., ’07.

BAND HAS PLEASANT TRIP TO ROCK HILL.

Davidson's R.O.T.C. Band had a most delightful trip to Rock Hill, S.C. last week, to assist in their Community Thanksgiving
Service. The Band arrived in Rock Hill at 6 p.m., on Wednesday, the 16th, and were entertained in the homes
of the good people of that place. Mr. W. J. Roddey, Jr., was in charge of their entertainment. On Thursday
at 10 a.m., the Band, directed by Mr. Robert Mell, led the singing for the services. There were over 3,000
people present. At 3:30 that afternoon the Band gave a concert on the campus of Winthrop College. The girls greatly
assisted the Band by their singing in the choruses of several numbers, and there were miles and miles of “smiles.”
After the concert, the fellows enjoyed the time—until 6—socially. At 7:30 p.m. another concert was given at one of the
Community Houses in one of the mill districts, under the direction of Mr. Mell’s “Y” work. In returning, the Band
left Rock Hill at 11:35 a.m. Friday.

James Watson Says, “I'll Never Forget When Father's Hogs Got Cholera.”

“One morning he found 20 hogs dead and several sick. He called in the Vet. who, after dissecting a rat
caught on the premises, decided that the rodents had conveyed the germs. Since then I am never without RAT-SNAP. It’s
the surest, quickest rat destroyer I know.” Three sizes, 25¢, 50¢, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware Co., and
White Drug Co.

IMPROVEMENT MEDAL

Knox and Barnette

After a long and careful deliberation, the committee for awarding the Eumenean Freshman Improvement Medal has decided to confer this
honor on R. F. Davidson. The committee found it very difficult to choose a member of the Fresh Society, as
so many had exhibited a marked improvement. The entrance of this Fresh Society into the Regular Society will mean a
great addition of good debaters and declaimers and will give the Phi Society a good run for their money in
the contest in the spring.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

S. S. Johnson Co.

Fancy Groceries and Fresh Meats A Specialty

A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. H. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier.

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber

If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please you, tell me. Next to Pressing Club.

Want a Change? See Us

See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements. Phone 85.

Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co. Expert Dyers and Cleaners. Charlotte, N.C. Agency is Watts.

Jetton Drug Co.
