Priv ~ ok

JAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 26, 1919. No. 21

HEADLINERS ELECTED FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN

At a meeting of the student body Monday morning, D. W. Roberts was elected Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian for next
year. “Dave” has served as Assignment editor this spring and will make us an excellent editor-in-chief for next year. C.
J. Matthews, being recommended by the staff for his excellent business ability, was unanimously elected to hold down the financial
end of The Davidsonian as business manager, while L. L. McAlister will have charge of the circulation department. Under these
efficient managers, The Davidsonian should have a year of remarkable success.

Permanent Appointments Made In R. O. T. C.

Classes In Military Tactics to Begin Soon.

Those who have been hoping to escape classroom work in the R. O. T. C. this spring are doomed to
disappointment. Classes in military tactics are to begin the first week in April. Company officers will instruct non-commissioned officers, juniors,
and seniors; and the lieutenants will have charge of the men in their platoons. The schedule of classes has not
been definitely settled yet, but probably each morning one company will have classes, while the other three drill. However, all
four companies will drill Saturday. The inspector may come at any time, but probably he will not arrive until about
the middle of May.

The following appointments have been made in the R. O. T. C.:

Major, R. D. Hall.
Battalion Adjutant, with rank of First Lieutenant, S. M. Gilbert.
Sergeant-Major, H. M. Spann.

“A” Company: Captain, N. Y. Pharr; 1st Lieutenant, R. C. Garth; 2nd Lieutenant, J. P. Taylor; 1st Sergeant, M. S.
Cameron; Supply Sergeant, J. H. Patterson; Sergeants, R. B. McKeithen, W. H. Harrell, J. C. McAskill; Corporals, C. Howell, J.
G. Richards, E. R. Boney, C. R. Vance, L. Mackey, J. W. Phillips, W. G. McKeldin.

“B” Company: Captain, W. M. Hall; 1st Lieutenant, J. P. Watts; 2nd Lieutenant, J. R. McKeldin; 1st Sergeant, H. B.
Dendy; Supply Sergeant, A. M. Inman; Sergeants, W. T. Dunlap, P. G. Sutton, T. H. Wilson; Corporals, C. J. Matthews,
J. D. Wiley, R. A. McPheeters, A. P. Mason, H. H. Massey, J. R. Walker, A. J. Davis.

“C” Company: Captain, J. H. Sam- (Continued on page 6)

An elderly lady recently visited a Red Cross convalescent home, looked about her for a moment and then asked of
a wounded Tommy: Do you know of a soldier here with one leg named Smith? No, mum, I don’t happen
to know him, was the reply, but what was the name of the other leg?—Ex.

Lineup For Tennis Tournament Announced

McPheeters Defeats Manning in First Heat.

The tennis tournament began on Monday with a large number of entrants in the singles and seven teams in doubles.
The entrants were as follows, doubles: Ormond and Ormond play Cunningham and Cunningham. Kornegay and Wilkinson meet McKeldin and Miller.
In the lower bracket, Hall and Spence play Woods and Price, and the winners of this match meet McPheeters and
Lilly for a place in the finals.

Those who entered the singles were:

Upper half: Gaither and Rogers; Spence and Cunningham, R. B.; Hall and Cunningham, C. E.; Kornegay and McKeldin.

Lower half: Manning and McPheeters; Ormond, A. C., and Woods; Lilly and Ormond, A. P.; Wilkinson and Price.

The great interest which is being shown in tennis this spring may be ascribed, in a large degree, to the
fact that a letter is being awarded to the winner of the singles, for the first time. Manager Cunningham is
arranging for a number of matches with other colleges, so it will be well worth the work the winners of
the tournament must put into it. Tennis at Davidson has long been in need of just such an impetus as
has been given it this year in the form of recognition by the athletic association. From this time on it
should take on greater proportions as a college sport.

In Monday’s play McPheeters defeated Manning in three sets 6-3;6-8; 8-6. Manning played a steady game, but fell before the
hard driving of his opponent.

BOTH GOING IT BLIND.
She: “How do you know you are not marrying me for my money?”
He: “If it comes to that, how do I know you are not marrying me to reform me?”—New York Herald.

Nationals Saturday
Every Man Playing Good Ball. Batting Improves.

The men of baseball ability are out on the field every afternoon getting in shape for the big times to
come. Coach Fetzer has made no announcement as to who is who in his mind, so everyone is on his
toes, about thirty men being out every afternoon. The usual round of practice includes fielding for outfield and infield and
batting. Considerable time has been devoted to bunting in the last few days. Unless the whole team has an attack
of spring fever or something equally improbable happens, the 1919 baseball team is going to make history in Davidson athletics.

Sullivan and Johnson are both going strong on the receiving end. Curry, Clarke, Miley, and Murray are showing up well
in the box. “Big Iron” Sutton is off first on account of a bad eye, but McArn and Richards are
both anxious to fill his place. Ratchford is catching them high and low around second sack. “Pat” Robson is also
going good in that neighborhood. Captain Boswell is killing everything that comes down short. Cassell and Sample are both doing
noble work around third. Among the fielders who are showing up good are Spann, Richards, W. G. Miley, and Montgomery.

The first game of the season is to be played in Charlotte next Saturday. At that time the Wildcats will
attack the Philadelphia Nationals in their winter quarters. Although the Phillies belong to “the men higher up,” they had better
watch their step, for Coach Bill's team is “going at 'em.” Manager Cunningham has several more games in view. The
complete schedule will probably be published next week.

She (passing candy store): Doesn't that candy look good?
Henry: Sure does; let’s stand here and look at it.

Y.M.C.A. CHOOSES NEW OFFICERS

Sunday evening at the regular meeting of the Y.M.C.A. it was moved and carried that the regular exercises be dispensed
with and that the election of officers for the ensuing year be held. The first office to be filled was
that of president. Dwight Chalmers was elected to fill this office. D. W. Roberts was elected vice-president; A. L. Currie,
secretary, and J. C. McCaskill, treasurer. These officers take charge the first of April and continue until the first of
next April.

Dr. Martin Better
Thanks Student Body

From the latest news obtained the first of this week, our President, Dr. W. J. Martin, is slowly recovering. His
condition is decidedly critical, however. He is resting easy, but is very weak, and everything is being done that is
possible to prevent a relapse. The physicians cannot advise as to when he will be removed from the hospital. It
is a certainty, however, that the college will be without his services for the remainder of this term. Following is
the letter received by the Student Body, in appreciation of the flowers sent Dr. Martin last week:

Salisbury, N.C.
The Student Body, Davidson College.
Dear Boys:

I wish that Dr. Martin were able to thank you himself for the beautiful flowers you sent. I am sure
that nothing could please him more than such an expression of sympathy and kind thoughts from “the boys.” The flowers
have given me much pleasure and I add my thanks to Dr. Martin’s for your beautiful gift. I am sure
you will be interested to know that Dr. Martin's condition is considered favorable by the physicians, though he continues distressingly
ill and weak.

Very sincerely yours,
Mrs. W. J. Martin.

DID SHE THINK OF THIS.
“What do you think of women in politics?”
“Embarrassing! You can’t be sure whether a bashful man is going to propose to you or merely ask you for
your vote.”
