4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN

H. A. Hill, Acting Editor.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Founded by Class of '15
"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

(Editor's Note—Anyone wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let's have more discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

D. W. ROBERTS...........Manager
J. B. CASSELL...........Assistant Editor
B. H. SCHENCK...........Sporting Editor
B. H. ASKEW...........Sporting Editor
J. C. McCASKILL...........Alumni Editor
L. G. CALHOUN...........Y. M. C. A. Editor
J. M. GASTON, Jr...........Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE...........Campus Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHELL
R. CRAIG
R. FRITZER
B. BRITTENHIRT
R. DOUBLES
P. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDS
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Read the College Exchanges in the Library

(Editor’s Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY.
About sixteen men will represent the University in collegiate contests this coming year. From the candidates taking part in the preliminary trials, sixteen will be chosen to the final decision on the matter.

The Value of the R. O. T. C.

The question of “The Value of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson” is a topic much discussed these days on the Hill. Everyone interested has something to say on the matter. The whole student body can be divided into three classes, as to the final decision on the matter. First, there are those who never can or will get any benefit from the course, because they dislike military training and refuse to put anything into the work. Second, there are those who have never had military training before or else those who like it, and put everything into their work, regardless of the amount of credit received. Third, there is that class which is greatly in the minority, who like military and want to take it because they realize the beneficial effects that can be derived from the R. O. T. C. course; but who do not feel it worth their time to continue and receive only half credit for it.

For the benefit of this last class something ought to be done by the Faculty and college officials to make the course more just. There are scores of rising Juniors who drop it after the two-year basic course, who would be of great value to their country if they continued it. They are setting aside the very thing which will teach them the principles of leadership, discipline, obedience, and mentality; all because too much time is required for the credit given. A golden opportunity is being lost to learn these qualities of manhood. A complete analysis of the question might be made by asking each party concerned what they think of it.

1. What does the Government think of it? Realizing the need of men of character and ability for leadership in the national and international questions of the future, the Government has picked Davidson, among other colleges, to train these men in, to fill the coming vacancies. The Government believes in it enough to make thousands of dollars available for the maintenance of a ROTC at Davidson.

2. What does the Military Department think of it?
The Military Department believes it to be a course that should occupy five hours of practical work and recitation and as much more time per week as is necessary to prepare the work.

3. What does the Faculty think of it?
The Faculty believes it to be equivalent to one-half of any course that is offered and therefore offers one-half credit towards graduation for it.

4. What does the Corps think of it?
The Corps believes it to be equivalent in time spent to, for instance, Greek, Junior Chemistry, or two courses in History. In value, it is undoubtedly worth as much to a student as the average course on the curriculum and therefore full credit should be given.

EDITORIAL

(Due to the continued absence of D. W. Roberts, due to illness, S. H. Askew has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem.)

A man works through long years to become a Senior and enjoy the same pleasures and privileges as a Freshman.

Why can’t we have a few more ideal Chapels like we had Saturday?

If you continue to apply yourself as you are at present, will you be better fitted to serve the world when you graduate? If not, who is to blame?

CLASS DISTINCTION.

There are some customs of the larger universities and colleges which Davidson has no desire to imitate, but there are some that have proved their value and the progressive spirit of the college demands their consideration. Outstanding among these is the substitution of class distinctions for organized hazing. The latter embraces class meetings, Fresh parades, and promiscuous bestowal of Freshman caps. Public sentiment has long since placed its stamp of disapproval on these methods of drawing class lines. Even those who engage in them do so for the lack of a better way of showing their seniority. These methods having become old-fashioned and out of style, others must be sought.

One of the simplest ways of classifying a Freshman is by requiring him to wear at all times a red and black cap, or one of any other color, provided they are uniform and distinctive. The success with which this system has met in other institutions is unquestioned. Gradually the Freshman becomes attached to his trade-mark and wears it as a matter of course. At the same time there is being instilled within him the proper place which a new man should occupy.

This question has for a long time been the source of much argument and discussion. No one knew who should raise the issue and consequently no one acted. It was finally left to the Sophomore class to present the matter for definite action. By introducing a resolution guaranteeing the cessation of organized hazing and suggesting a suitable remedy they have shown a very commendable as well as progressive spirit. What other colleges have done Davidson can do and more. We expect within a short time to see every Freshman with his proper mark of honor and thus pass another milepost in our onward progress.

GET BUSY, WAR VETS.

To the numerous organizations on the campus another should be added, one which could be a wonderful power and influence in the lives of some men. The gathering together of the men who haveseen service either in this country or with the A. E. F. and their organization as a working force could be easily accomplished. The idea is spreading among the colleges. At two universities in this country, there has been established a post of the American Legion. Others will probably be applying in the near future. Great things are expected of the American Legion. It has within its scope the livest talent of the nation. Because most of the men eligible are already members of the Legion at their homes, it is not necessary to have an official post established. Co-operation with the Legion, however, could be effectively accomplished and the principles for which they are working could be put before the local organization.

Already Dr. Lingle has endeavored to get together the men of the A. E. F., but nothing definite has been done. It is left to some enterprising man to promote the movement and establish such an organization at Davidson. 

Letters for this issue are: G. W. Mauze, A. P. Ormand, E. Fewell, H. M. Morris, C. D. Tule, J. P. Booth.

We would very likely have to send to Charlotte for an expert every time our system happened to get out of fix. How would we know when to go to classes while our bells were out of order? Perhaps with a bugle, but that would be far more unreliable than any bell. Also, in a system of this sort, there would be the necessity of keeping current in all buildings constantly, thus adding a very big lump to the expenses of the college. There will always be an element here whose idea of being funny is to inconvenience others by finding ways to make the electric bells ring at the wrong time and for a long time if the wires were crossed in a place hard to get to quickly. This kind of trick would not be easy to prevent for there would not be one but several bells to tinker with. Also, our bell is the church bell, and if we abolished its use, the church would have to adopt the new system or not at all, and have you ever heard of an electric bell calling people to church? Perhaps it is against the rules to ring it at the wrong time, but when the team wins a big game, the old bell nearly always helps us to arouse pep and its absence would be missed very much. The present system does pretty well and the expense is very small as the one who rings the bell is the only one to be paid, but is not paid in money, but in reduction of his college expenses. Let us not think of giving up our old friend who not only disturbs our morning slumbers with its soft (?) peals, but also announces that we have lost our last chance to get “shot” on class and may now enjoy our rice and gravy plus grits in peace.

(Signed) MORE INTERESTED.

Charlotte will be under martial spell as never before when Colonel with the R. O. T. C. and the band start up Trade Street November 8. The Commissary heartily endorses the wearing of Red and Black caps for Freshmen. We are new to America’s finest while savings.

Does Not Approve of Electric Bell System at Davidson.

WHERE IS THE POLITY CLUB? IT'S TIME FOR A RESURRECTION.

In the last edition of The Davidsonian, it was proposed to abolish our ancient and respected disturber of our morning slumbers. The substitute proposed was the installing of an electric bell system worked by a clock located in the library, with bells scattered in each of the campus buildings.

In thinking over the subject, besides the first expense of the clock and bell system, which alone would be large, we would very likely have to send to Charlotte for an expert every time our system happened to get out of fix. How would we know when to go to classes while our bells were out of order? Perhaps with a bugle, but that would be far more unreliable than any bell. Also, in a system of this sort, there would be the necessity of keeping current in all buildings constantly, thus adding a very big lump to the expenses of the college. There will always be an element here whose idea of being funny is to inconvenience others by finding ways to make the electric bells ring at the wrong time and for a long time if the wires were crossed in a place hard to get to quickly. This kind of trick would not be easy to prevent for there would not be one but several bells to tinker with. Also, our bell is the church bell, and if we abolished its use, the church would have to adopt the new system or not at all, and have you ever heard of an electric bell calling people to church? Perhaps it is against the rules to ring it at the wrong time, but when the team wins a big game, the old bell nearly always helps us to arouse pep and its absence would be missed very much. The present system does pretty well and the expense is very small as the one who rings the bell is the only one to be paid, but is not paid in money, but in reduction of his college expenses. Let us not think of giving up our old friend who not only disturbs our morning slumbers with its soft (?) peals, but also announces that we have lost our last chance to get “shot” on class and may now enjoy our rice and gravy plus grits in peace.

(Signed) MORE INTERESTED.

Back in the spring of 1916, while the great war was raging in Europe, a Polity Club was organized here at Davidson. This club had for its object the study and discussion of international problems. Leaders of national movements were brought here from time to time to deliver lectures. Thus a great deal of interest was aroused and much benefit derived from it. However, due to the disturbed conditions of last year, the Polity Club was crowded out and interest died down, indeed it was almost forgotten. Now that the war is over, leaving in its wake a vast number of international problems to be solved, would not a club of this kind be a fine thing? Let us bring it back to life and have a better Polity Club than ever before at Davidson.

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has decided to give two script dances each month with the consent of the Dean. A new rule also has gone into effect recently, which says that no one will be allowed in the dance hall under the influence of intoxicating liquors—The Red and Black.

TRINITY.

The R. O. T. C. has been organized and contains four companies with a little over fifty men in each. The establishment of a signal corps company will be applied for at once. Major Crawford hopes to organize a military band soon, for which the Government will supply the instruments.—The Trinity Chronicle.

UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI.

Plans are under way at the University for the establishment of student self-government which is proposed for the better co-operation between all classes.—The Mississippian.

RAT YELL.

Rah—Ma—Pa Rah—Ma—Pa Help—Exchange.

GEORGIA TECH.

The Freshmen at Tech are patiently awaiting the arrival of their caps. It is a gold cap bearing on the front a white “F,” and is to be worn all the time—The Technique.

UNIVERSITY OF N. CAROLINA.

A Graduate Club is the latest addition to the long list of organizations on the Hill. Membership includes all graduate students registered in the University.—The Tar Heel.

“The man who carries his troubles around with him should see that there is a hole in his pocket."—Exchange.

BOSTON TECH.

To date, the total enrollment is over 3,000 students. Many men have come from other colleges, which explains the cause of this overflow.—The Tech.

LAWRENCE COLLEGE.

The social committees of the Y. W. and Y. M. C. A. aided the students to become better acquainted with one another by means of the all-college walk around held in the gymnasium last Friday.—The Lawrentian.

THIS IS “YOUR” CLOTHES SHOP

Mr. Yunefello

Charlotte, but a chain of 25 stores in other cities enables us to furnish you with clothes at worth-while savings. WE EARNESTLY REQUEST that you call and inspect our “COLLEGE CUT CLOTHES” AT $30.00, $35.00, $40.00

24 W. Trade St. STORES EVERYWHERE