2 The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD
E. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers...... Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts....... Assignment Editor

THE STAFF
B. E. Shields
S. T. McCloy
Kinney Flyan
W. M. Currie
B. G. Lilly
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Crane

MANAGEMENT
T. C. Stone........ Business Manager
E. A. Turner....... Circulation Manager
T. R. Alexander.... Assistant Manager
J. R. Price......... Assistant Manager
G. D. Sample....... Assistant Manager

REPORTERS FOR THIS ISSUE
E. N. Booker, A. D. McArn, J. C. McCaskill, A. M. Mitchell, O. M. Dugger, Jr., J. J. Love, J. B. Sanders, J. P. Price.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

After a full month's holiday it is no easy matter to settle down again to work, especially as the experiences and conditions of the last year are to be replaced by the old normal college life. Adjustment to the present conditions to some extent will of necessity be gradual. It will take some time for all the college organizations to pick up and get into good running order once more. But from appearances, the outlook for the spring of 1919 is most promising. With a student body by twenty percent larger than the most optimistic estimates of last fall, the college already shows signs of growing by leaps and bounds. And these are just the first compliments War has paid Education.

The excellent spirit of the student body has already been commented upon: full of life and pep, yet with a steadiness that promises a splendid term both in and out of class. With everything making a fresh start, Pep should be the motto or resolution of everyone. No activity will suffer from snap and drive. The Literary Societies will need it, and, from remarks of society men, will get it. Athletics already have it. Publications need it and will try their best to get it. Let's put life into the old campus and make things hum this spring. The war has given everything a shaking up, has sifted out many of the old worthless habits, and thrown in some good ones. It's up to the men to take up the good habits and keep out the bad ones.

The Y. M. C. A. will probably have the most influence in keeping up life on the campus. Fellows will spend many a mean, dreary evening down at the gym enjoying the free Y movies and making use of the other Y equipment. For this reason, it's up to everyone to give the Y. M. C. A. his heartiest support and help in every way possible. Boost it and work for it.

The worst part of a Christmas holiday is that it has to come to an end sometime. Who would ever have thought to see Marguerite Clark down in the gym? Amo has an unenviable job as editor of the Annual, but we are confident that he will put out a volume that will do credit to the Senior class.

The DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1919

In modern times—workmen drive to their work: reroofing Shearer Hall. The weather has done itself proud lately. But we can hardly hope to escape the proverbial “rain eight days a week.” “Enza” hasn't quite flown all the way out again. It's rather a relief to hear “student body” again instead of “battalion.”

DOUGHERTY-PAINE

The home of Mr. and Mrs. E. S. Paine, in Tampa, Fla., was the scene of a quiet but beautiful wedding last week when their only daughter, Miss Edna Lee Paine, became the bride of Mr. Lewis B. Dougherty, ex-'19, of Liberty, Mo. The marriage of Miss Paine and Mr. Dougherty, while a surprise to many, is the culmination of a romance begun three years ago when Miss Paine visited her brother, Walter H. Paine, at Davidson College. The wedding guests included only the intimate friends of the bride and bridegroom. In the living room where the ceremony was performed, the decorations were graceful sprays of asparagus ferns, bamboo vine, and potted palms. The lights were softly shaded. The folding glass doors were covered with fern, forming a dainty and beautiful background for the wedding party. Mrs. Paine entered with Lieut. James J. Love, of Quincy, a classmate of the bridegroom at Davidson; Walter H. Paine, ex-'15, brother of the bride, was best man. The ceremony was performed by Rev. J. C. Tims, of the First Presbyterian Church.

L. B. Dougherty served six months in France with a French ambulance unit before this country entered the war, returning to the United States in 1918 to train as an aviator with the American army. He was still in training when the armistice was signed and is now released from service. Mr. and Mrs. Dougherty left on the 8:30 train for Liberty, Mo., where they will make their future home.

At a meeting of the Student Body Monday, January 13, the following officers were elected to fill the vacancies left by men not returning to college: J. H. Miller, President Student Body; L. L. McAlister and A. D. McArn, Vice-presidents; A. L. Currie, Secretary and Treasurer. The Senior class postponedany election of officers until a later date. The Sophomore class reinstated the officers elected last spring. The Freshman class elected as President, J. P. Price; for Vice-president, G. H. Cornelson, Jr.; for Secretary and Treasurer, J. McD. Richards. Mr. Miles, the live-wire “Y” secretary, says that he is planning a checker tournament for the students, to begin within the next few days. From the time the Y. M. C. A. was organized, one of the chief enjoyments of the hut has been checker playing, and this tournament will be very exciting, for by this time there must be quite a few checker sharks on the campus. Another phase of the “Y” program which has been a source of pleasure to the fellows is volleyball. This game heretofore has been played indoors, but Mr. Miles has decided to construct a court in the open so that those who desire to play may take the exercise without putting on a gym suit. This court will probably be located near the open-air gymnasium.

STUDY CLASSES

Mr. Miles, our popular Y. M. C. A. Secretary, has a novel plan for educating the student body in missions. Instead of having classes led by individuals, there will be formed an open forum for the discussion of a book entitled “The Call to a World Task.” This discussion group will meet each Thursday night at 7:15 in the recreation room in the gym. The book which will guide the study of missions is a call to men of real Christian spirit to seize the opportunity presented by the critical state of affairs throughout the world to bring Christ into the lives of all men. It seeks a mobilization of Christian activities in every land. Besides this book, there will be papers prepared on various phases of the subject. The whole scheme holds great promise for a presentation of many vital ideas on mission study. Do not make the mistake of not enrolling or attending this open court and expressing your opinions and listening to others. It will mean a great deal to you in your spiritual, mental, and social life. Also, it is urged that men will not allow themselves to sleep through the hour of 10 a.m. on Sunday morning and miss the Bible classes. These classes are not conducted with the intention of making you get up too early, but of enriching your mind with views of the life of Christ here among men. None of us can profess to know enough about Him, and it should be everyone’s earnest desire to learn more. So make up your mind to be present at all these meetings, including the vesper service at 6:30 every Sunday evening in Shearer Hall.

BOARDING HOUSES AND THEIR MANAGERS

At the beginning of the spring term, all the boarding houses found that no recruiting would be necessary to be done, for every place at the table was filled at the first meal. The only job that the managers had to do was to see that all men who applied at their boarding houses were given places, and afterwards to step on their pocketbooks. It is needless to say anything of the wholesomeness of the food, for the men all know that the greatest care is being taken in the preparation of the food. The boarding houses and their managers are as follows: Brady’s—Cunningham, E. Shumaker’s—Wilson, T. H. Barnes'—Calhoun, L. G. McNeil’s—Wilson, A. L. Long’s—Murphy, S. W. Manning’s—McCloy, S. F. Henderson’s—Schenck, L. B.

Everybody knows Mr. Schofield's old store on the corner opposite the White Drug Company. Juniors and Seniors in college now may even remember the place as “Skit’s,” for nearly a quarter of a century the most popular “joint” in town. Once again this store will be opened. Again it will bloom with prosperity. G. A. Beal, '21, is the enterprising owner of this new business. And judging from his plans, the old store is due to have a big “comeback.” It opens today, if all works well, and so there will be something new in Davidson!—a place where you can get the very best of homemade candies and cakes.

With their disregard for the game laws, some “Wattite” drowned T. H. Spence, ‘20, and “General” Scott, ‘22. Feeling on the campus runs high and if the miscreant is caught it may go hard with him.

R. T. L. Liston daily demonstrates his clan loyalty by his new headgear—(Green).

---

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial At the same place with new equipment Hood Norton Next to Post Office DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary RICHMOND, VA. For information, address W. W. Moore, D.D., LL. D. President

A. H. Fetting Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md. Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT Doing more Work and Better Work The New Steam Press at the Old Stand Tobe Johnson 17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.