4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '14
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
D. M. ROBERTS

Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr.

Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK

Sporting Editors
S. H. ASKEW
J. G. McCASKILL

Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS

Exchange Editor
T. H. SPENCE

Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN

M. S. A. Editor
J. G. GASTON

Literary Editor
R. B. McILWAINE

Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BOOKER L. LISTON
CRAIG CUNNINGHAM
M. GILMER
N. T. J. R. R. BITZER
E. M. T. A. E.

Additional reporters for this issue:
C. G. Long, D. L. Mahood, A. M. Mitchell, W. P. Cumming, M. Dunlap, W. Dorsett, F. Martin, W. Phillips,
H. Tufts, C. B. Sanders, W. P. Booth, J. P. Clark, A. C. Ormand, A. P. Ormand, T. L. C.
H. L.

EDITORIAL

Due to the continued absence of Dave Roberts on account of sickness, Dwight Chalmers has been elected Editor-in-Chief Pro Tem.
Hurry back, Dave, and put the “Dave” in Davidsonian.

“Secret practice,” like secret diplomacy, doesn’t get you to the goal.

WE RESOLVE:
To know every man on the campus by Thanksgiving. Do you?

Men of Rumple, why follow in the paths of your elders who have gone wrong across the campus?

A BURNING QUESTION:
Is there any fundamental difference between stealing information from another fellow's paper and stealing light from a whole dormitory hall?

We've heard that Tigers are hard to beat, but something tells us that Wildcats can do the job.

WE WONDER
If there was music in the air when the Fresh picked cotton for the Band.

The unanswerable argument in favor of making Davidson a co-ed college is that we would then get shower baths in
Chambers. May they soon come!

Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.

SOME MEN are interested in their roommate and they are bigger men for that interest. Some men are working for
the welfare of a college organization and they inevitably become the leaders of that organization. Some men carry a whole
college on their hearts, and their names are written on every page of its history. Some men are interested only
in themselves and their lives are as barren as the desert. A man is no bigger than the thing he
is interested in. He who looks only after Number One soon becomes all the numeral implies—one horse, one-sided, one friend
(himself).

Have we ever stopped and analyzed our activities for one day? How many of them are directed for our sole
benefit? How many include our roommate? How many our whole college? Does the fact that our roommate finds Math hard
affect our conduct? Does it matter to us that “The Davidsonian” needs our help? Do we care how soon the
Band becomes a reality? Are we interested to know that our literary societies are below the standard? Is there anything
more pitiful than a college man who measures every action by its utility to himself alone? Is not such a
man more useless than a tramp or criminal? The law of conduct is as inexorable as the law of gravitation,
and applies even in college circles, “He that would be chiefest among you, let him be servant of all.”

MAJ. A. L. JAMES RETURNS FROM OVERSEAS.

Major A. L. James, ex-'06, has returned from overseas, where his services gained great distinction for him in England, France,
and Belgium, as well as in America. Of him, the Dubuque (Iowa) Daily News said recently:

“Dubuque is being honored this summer by a visit of a gallant and distinguished soldier, one whose services in the
great war were noticed by commanders and kings, one who was high in the councils of the American army. Major
Alexander Long James, who is spending a leave of absence at ‘Four Mounds,’ the home of his father-in-law, Mr. George
A. Burden, was chief of the Fourth Division of the Intelligence Section of the General Staff in France. ‘The Stars
and Stripes,’ the official newspaper of the A. E. F., was published by his division. This paper reached a circulation
of more than five hundred thousand copies. Major James was chief military censor of the A. E. F. and all
the press, postal, telegraph, and cable censorship was conducted under his direction. The propaganda conducted against the enemy was likewise
one of the functions of his division. He also controlled sub-divisions which were charged with the entertainment and management of
all visitors to the A. E. F., with securing and producing photographic and pictorial records of the war, and with
the necessary cooperation with the committee on public information and its work in Europe.

“Major James has been conspicuously honored, having received the order of officers of the Crown from the King of the
Belgians, the order of the chevalier de la légion d'honneur from the French government, and a citation from the American
commander-in-chief, Gen. John J. Pershing, for especially conspicuous and meritorious services rendered.

“Major James married Miss Viola Burden, of this city, some years ago. They have one daughter.”

OPEN FORUM
H. A. Hill, Acting Editor.

The Forum is the department in our paper which is open to everybody for discussion of any topic pertaining to
student life. Opinions, ideas, and suggestions—either constructive or destructive—on campus improvements, college activities, student body policies, or any other subject
are welcomed by the Forum editor. By putting up to the public any problem of student life, thought on that
problem is encouraged, and very likely right conclusions will soon be reached. The alumni are also urged to keep the
old college in mind, and to send us any advice or suggestions they believe helpful to Davidson. All communications to
the Forum must of course bear the signature of the author, though it will not be published if he so
desires.

Comparative Impressions.
(Editor's note: There are at Davidson a number of men who came here after two or three years spent at
other colleges. It is our purpose to have them tell us through the “Forum” how Davidson’s customs and ideals compare
with those of the colleges they have forsaken).

“PEP” IS THE TEST.

A man who goes to college naturally has some kind of an ideal, in his mind, of what that college
ought to be. These ideals of course vary with different types of fellows, but I feel safe in saying that
the majority of college men want a college that has a strong atmosphere of real, live, wide-awake interest in both
work and every form of college life. In other words, a college should have an outstanding spirit of “push,” and
not merely an atmosphere of tolerance for study, athletics, and other college activities. If the “other fellow” means business, and
you see it by his actions, then you soon realize that it's up to you to “get busy” if you
want company. The fellow who is busy, and is interested in his business, hasn’t any time to waste on the
one who has no business, or who doesn’t want anything to do. This very characteristic of “pep” in both studies
and athletics, is, perhaps, the most satisfying characteristic that I have found at Davidson in the few weeks that I
have been here. After all, it takes “pep” in everything to make a college what it ought to be and
Davidson has it.

“BILL.”

TRUE DAVIDSON.

Let's see what Davidson really means. First of all, Davidson is indeed very fortunate in being located in the wonderful
Piedmont section of North Carolina,She is only a little way from Charlotte, resting peacefully among the large oaks and on
the beautiful campus which has been instrumental in making her famous. Let’s not attempt to compare Davidson with other colleges,
for there is not any comparison. She is the home of that sterling quality of “Brotherhood and Christian spirit” that
means so much to every college. So many times colleges lack this one step in their curriculum of preparing men
for the best there is in life. Often jealousy, envy, and strife are acquired in college that follow throughout life,
always leaving a blot or scar on character. Davidson’s watchword is “Help someone.” Davidson College stands for the best there
is in man. This can be verified by anyone coming on the campus for just five minutes. Speak to a
man from Davidson and you will at once realize the fact. This is quite evident from the fact that the
student body has grown to such an enormous extent in the last few years. With the splendid record of the
past and the glorious future, watch Davidson grow.

NUMBER SIX. ORGANIZED READING.

“Reading makes the full man,” said one of the greatest essayists. “But what shall I read?” is the question that
confronts every man who wishes to make a selection from the twenty-seven thousand volumes available in our library. Here one
may find volumes of ancient and modern history, all branches of science, poetry, and the best works of modern novelists.
A student should plan a course of reading and should try to read at least one book every two weeks.
Select the books that fit in best with the course you are pursuing in college but by no means confine
yourself to one particular line of reading. Try to become acquainted with all accepted standard works and writers. The reading
room contains the best standard periodicals and every student should make it a part of his daily schedule to visit
the reading room and familiarize himself with current topics.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB ANNOUNCES PROGRAM

At a recent meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club, a weekly schedule for the coming year was adopted, which will
be taken up with discussions on the various reconstruction problems as given below:

Oct. 10—Greece, Miss Douglas, Miss Young.
Oct. 24—United States, Mrs. Douglas, Mrs. McConnell.
Nov. 7—Austria, Mrs. Lingle, Miss Vinson.
Nov. 21—Poland, Miss Young, Mrs. Hamilton.
Dec. 5—Canada, Mrs. Arbuckle, Miss Withers.
Dec. 19—Servia, Mrs. Johnston, Miss Douglas.
Jan. 2—Italy and Jugo-Slavia, Miss Johnston, Mrs. Currie.
Jan. 16—Spain and Holland, Mrs. McConnell, Mrs. Douglas.
Jan. 30—China, Japan, and Korea, Miss Ellinwood, Mrs. M. M. Grey.
Feb. 13—Bulgaria, Miss Thompson, Mrs. Arbuckle.
Feb. 27—Belgium, Mrs. Wood.
March 13—Germany, Mrs. Withers, Miss Ellinwood.
March 27—France, Miss Withers, Mrs. Johnston.
April 10—France, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs. Withers.
April 24—England, Mrs. Vinson, Mrs. Reed.
May 8—Russia, Mrs. Reed, Miss Thompson.

READ “THE OLD MADHOUSE.” WILLIAM DE MORGAN.

To those who have reveled in the delightful originality of plot, the remarkable character portrayal, and amusing dialogue of “Alice
for Short,” “Somehow Good,” and “It Never Can Happen Again,” comes another treat from that beloved author—the last work of
his pen before his death. The Old Madhouse was published by Mrs. De Morgan and is fresh from the press
this month. Readers of De Morgan will find in this novel no weakening of the author's grasp of plot, no
dimming of his keen insight into human nature, whether he is telling us of Grewbeer, the drunken caretaker of the
mysterious and creepy old place, or of the beautiful Lucy Hinchliffe, who came there to live. He uses his same
original and entertaining method of describing places in the language of the people who dwell there. If he has occasion
to write of a London slum, he does so in the Cockney vocabulary and accent of the London slum dweller.
There is something irresistibly refreshing and novel about De Morgan’s art and this work of his gives us a delightful
example of it. If you want the mysterious, the bizarre, or the supernatural; if you desire the inner history of
human love; or if it is a humorous but true philosophy you seek—read The Old Madhouse.

OUT OF LUCK.

Afraid to breathe, almost, the returned reveller crept quietly into his bedchamber as the gray dawn was breaking. Sitting on
the edge of the bed, he cautiously undid his boots. But, with all his care, his wife stirred in bed,
and he presently was all too well aware of a pair of sleepy eyes regarding him over the edge of
the sheet.

“Why, Tom,” yawned the little woman, “how early you are this morning!”

“Yes, my dear,” replied Tom, stifling a groan, “I’ve got to go to Montreal for the firm today.” And replacing
his footgear, the wretched man dragged his aching limbs out again into the cold and heartless streets.

—Jack Canuck.

THE BRIG!

“Them gua’d houses at the trainin’ camps is shuah doin’ a gran’ work, jes’ like the Red Cross,” observed Cindy,
the colored laundress. “They saved mah boy Duke's life.”

“How is that, Cindy,” queried her employer.

“I dunno how they done it. Only he wrote me a postal card sayin’ if he hadn't got ten days
in one of 'em he'd ‘a 'been a corp.”

A HARD LIFE.

“Arabella,” Kenneth softly whispered to her, “I am going to tell you something. I do not know just how you
will receive it, but hope for the best. For some time it has been in my heart to tell you
of it, but I had not the courage. Arabella—”

“Yes, yes, go on,” the girl murmured, the third finger of her left hand itching perceptibly.

“It's this, then: The last bus leaves here in three minutes and if I miss it I'll have to walk
back to Barracks 241.”

EXCHANGE

TRINITY SUCCESSFUL.

“The Chronicle” announces the securing of a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. This is indeed an achievement to be proud
of and we rejoice with them in this signal honor.

MISERY LOVES COMPANY.

Lost, Strayed or Stolen—The 1919 annuals.—“Gamecock.” We're in the same boat, Gamecocks, and await with interest the “discoveries” of your
detective force.

MOVIE STAR.

The moving picture, “Winthrop Day by Day,” was shown to the student body on Wednesday evening. — Winthrop Weekly News.
Thus may the Fresh profit by the experiences of others, less fortunate than they.

There are two kinds of people in this world, the lifters and the leaners—which are you?—“The Carolinian.”

WHO WON?

“Resolve: That Woman Has a Right to Propose,” was discussed by a Guilford literary society. Pertinent topic for a co-ed
college!

BEST JOKE.

Fond Parent—So you heard my daughter sing. What do you think of her range?

Returned Artillerist—I should say she ought to kill at three miles.—“Gamecock.”

(Editor's Note: “The Davidsonian” exchanges weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect
the best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college
life. The editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

ATTENDANCE RECORDS.

Bible Classes.
Rumple ........... 49
Chambers, North Wing...... 42
Chambers, South Wing....... 39
Georgia .......... 30
Watts ........... 29
Louisiana ........ 21

Sunday Schools.
The Mill ........ 77
Cornelius ........ 68
Caldwell ......... 63
Brawley’s ........ 53
Shearers ......... 53
Oak Grove ........ 38
Cowans .......... 15
