Captain Slaymaker Speaks at “Y” Service

“The Manhood of the Master” is Discussed.

Captain Slaymaker spoke at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday night. Captain Slaymaker is a veteran of two wars, having fought in the Spanish-American war and the Great War. He remarked that he was always glad to be with young men—they were full of all kinds of possibilities. "The war has taught us the lesson of service,” he said, and told many instances in which service had become the dominant desire and passion of a man’s life. “He profits most who serves best,” and the highest service of all, as he said, is to serve Christ with your whole time, and added to this is the fact that you would then be serving in a cause that you know will win.

Captain Slaymaker had been teaching a men’s Bible class composed of over 200 men, in which they were studying a little book, “The Manhood of the Master,” by Fosdick. “This book had proved of great benefit and was very popular,” so he wished to draw some lessons from it. In the first place, the general conception of Christ is that of a silent, gloomy, morose man, due to the erroneous ideas of artists. This is utterly untrue; one of His favorite expressions was equivalent to “cheer up” ("be of good cheer"). His first miracle was performed to save a hostess embarrassment. He was magnanimous. While on the cross He said: “Father forgive them for they know not what they do.” However, when others were being wronged He became angry. When thus aroused He would defy an angry mob because He knew He was in the right. He was sincere. He refused to be made king when it was not in accord with His mission. He had endurance and patience. He was a carpenter until thirty years of age before taking up His life work and He bore with His disciples who were at times so slow to understand Him. He was a man. He must have been a man to clear the temple and to drive the money changers from their upset tables. He must have been a man to force from Pilate’s lips the exclamation, “Behold the man!” even after His long hours of agony in the garden and his subsequent sufferings.

“The greatest calling in the world is the service of Christ,” said Captain Slaymaker again, “and never let God's name pass your lips, except in reverence.”

HONOR ROLL OF LOCAL GRADED SCHOOL

First Grade—James Cashion, Lillie Ervin, Willis Howard, Christine Mooney, John Thompson, Ruth Wilson.

Second Grade—James Hovis, William Mock, Macon Reed, Mack Torrence.

Third Grade—Adele Arbuckle, Jane Leighton Richards.

Fourth Grade—Vance Dearmon, Louise Ervin, Eva Fortner, Howard Jetton, Margaret Johnston, Audrey Messick, Rufus Reid.

Fifth Grade—Mary Hamilton, Graham Johnston, Sidney Proctor.

Sixth Grade—Howard Barnette, Richard Grey, Sara Johnston, Thomas Lothery, John Thompson.

Seventh Grade—Thomas Hamilton, Evelyn Potts, Sophie Richards.

Eighth Grade—Leah Hobbs, Sue F. Mock.

Ninth Grade—Martha Hamilton.

Tenth Grade—Annie Lois Barnette, Sarah Hamilton, Ruth Arbuckle.

The DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1919

NEWS OF BIBLE CLASSES AND SUNDAY SCHOOLS

The total attendance at the Bible classes last Sabbath was 111. Fellows, this is less than half of our number. Bible class is no hardship; it is a great privilege and opportunity.Let's look on it as such, take a new start, and make next Sabbath’s attendance better than any previous one this year. Comparison again shows Rumple in the lead, with a total of 37. South Chambers comes next, with 25; then Watts, with 20; Georgia, with 17; and North Chambers, with 11. A class is being organized on the second floor of North Chambers. Fellows, let's put North Chambers at the top of next Sabbath's roll. The Sabbath schools are just getting settled down to steady work. Last Sabbath’s report shows a total attendance, in all the schools, of 148, with 12 going out as teachers.

TRACK MEN MEET - FIELD DAY IS MARCH 22

Monday morning, McQueen, captain of the track team, called a meeting of all men interested in track. About twenty-five fellows were present. It was announced that Field Day would be held March 22. This event is of special importance this year as the winners in this meet will be considered members of the Varsity Squad. Manager Mooney has several good trips in view. Davidson will be represented at the State meet at Carolina and at the All-Southern meet at Georgia Tech. Several trips to nearby colleges are contemplated. Everyone has fine chances to make the team this year as only the "D" men are back. "Come out and work!" was Captain McQueen’s plea.

DOCTORS ELECT OFFICERS FOR THE PRESENT YEAR

A few days ago, the Aesculapian club met and organized for the year. The following officers were elected: J. R. Boswell, President; C. Howell, Vice President; G. D. Sample, Secretary-Treasurer. As yet the Freshmen have not been initiated but the ceremony will soon take place. There are a large number of the old men back and with a large influx from the Fresh class, the club has a promising future. At a recent meeting, Dr. H. D. Clayberg was elected an honorary member.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Sweets
Quality and Service

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?
The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
Engraved Work a Specialty
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643) NORTH CAROLINA
T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St.
Mail Orders a Specialty

Spalding Ice Skates For Every Member of the Family
Toboggans, Skis, Snowshoes, Hockey Supplies, Etc.
Catalogue on request
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. J. Thompson, Cash., A. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier