2 The DAVIDSONIAN, Sept. 24, 1919

Athletic News

Football Gleanings

Live News

The Davidson-Guilford game will go down in history as the first intercollegiate game of the biggest year football has ever
had. So far as can be learned, no other college has attempted a scheduled game this early in the season.
According to the theory that the early bird gets the worm, we've got the jump on everything in this section.
The following games are scheduled for this week:

Sept. 25—Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Wake Forest, N. C.
Sept. 27—North Carolina A. and E. vs. Guilford at West Raleigh, N. C.
Sept. 27—Georgia Tech vs. Furman at Atlanta, Ga.
Sept. 27—V. M. I. vs. Hampden-Sidney at Lexington, Va.
Sept. 27—Clemson vs. Erskine at Clemson.

“Monk” Younger, known above the Mason-Dixon line as the “Southern Hyena” and one of the most brilliant ends the South
has seen in a long time, is this year coaching the Hampden-Sidney team. “Monk” distinguished himself at Davidson during the
1915-16 term by making a letter on four different teams. He has on hand at Hampden-Sidney a big bunch from
last year's squad and a lot of good new material. Their season is formally opened on Sept. 27, when they
meet V. M. I. in Lexington.

West Virginia is boasting of having twenty-seven regulars to draw from. If this is only half true, the scrap that
takes place on Forbes Field on October 11, when they tackle Pittsburgh, will be remembered long after Chateau Thierry and
St. Mihiel have faded into oblivion. Glenn Warner, the famous Pitt coach, is grieving over the loss of two of
his stars of last year, although nine men out of his first-string eleven are back on the job. He has
two full sets of backs known as the “Flying Squadron” and the “Rock Crushers,” either of which he claims can
score on any team in this country.

Washington and Lee began practice last week with a squad of seventy out the first day. Coach Raftery is working
hard preparing them for the first game with Randolph-Macon on October 4. Among other veterans back are Pike Johnston, Lindsey
Moore, and Art Cromwell of the 1916 team, besides Ed Bailey and captain Bethel of last year's squad.

Coach Coleman of the University of Virginia is being assisted this year by “Robby” Gooch, who is helping with the
backfield. “Billy” Gooch, his brother, is also acting as one of the assistant coaches. Coleman is giving most of his
personal attention to the line, which with the exception of McGowan and Wood, will be composed almost entirely of new
men.

Georgia Tech is welcoming the return of Brainard Adams, who though a freshman last year, tore things up like an
old-timer. It is claimed by their boosters that both he and “Buck” Flowers are heavier and faster than before, and
if so, they have a pair of backs that are hard to beat. Hersman has cut the varsity squad to
thirty-seven men in order that they might have more individual attention.

Bill—“I saw a woman hung yesterday.”
Tom—“Where?”
Bill—“Around her lover’s neck.”

RATS NO MORE or mice, after you use RAT-SNAP. It’s a sure rodent killer. Try a Pkg. and prove it.
Rats killed with RAT-SNAP leave no smell. Cats or dogs won't touch it. Guaranteed. 25c. size (1 cake) enough for
Pantry, Kitchen or Cellar. 50c. size (2 cakes) for Chicken House, coops, or small buildings. $1.00 size (5 cakes) enough
for all farm and out-buildings, storage buildings, or factory buildings. Sold and Guaranteed by Mooney Hdw. and White Drug Store.

Forest to Be Our Next Foe

Game Friday at Wake Forest...

“On to Wake Forest.” This is the next battle for the Wildcats. Playing her second game of the season, Davidson
will buck up against the Baptists Thursday, Sept. 25. The old rivals have not met in two years and the
overwhelming Davidson victory of 1917, when she defeated Wake Forest by the score of 72 to 7, is still burning
in the hearts of the losers. All this goes to prove that the game Thursday will not be lacking in
fight and plenty of it.

After three weeks of grueling practice, and a few hard scrimmages, Wake Forest is ready to open up with everything
she has and surprises may not be taken too lightly. The Baptist’s line is strong and up to its standard,
but the aggressiveness and offense lie in the backfield and there is where the main trouble will lie for Davidson.
Captain Robenhorst is running wild through the scrub line for consistent gains and this is the man that the Red
and Black line must watch. Fulton also is hitting the line hard. However, with that reliable Davidson line from tackle
to tackle consisting at present of Hammit, Romfelt, Brady, La Far, and McMaster, the sailing does not seem to be
so easy for the speedy Wake Forest backfield. There is a line that will uphold the colors of Red and
Black without a flinch and it is going to take the combination of a heavy line and fast backfield to
get through it. With Douglas and Miley on ends, the Baptists will find little use of their trick forward pass
plays which it seems as if they are especially proficient in this year. Pruette, fleet Wake Forest warrior, is the
man the Wildcat ends must cut down to break up these passes.

Henry Spann, crack quarterback, will be back in the game Thursday, and this will not necessitate a shift in the
backfield as was the case in the Guilford game. Black, Cassel, and McAlister will be at the halfbacks and Shepherd
at fullback. The whole student body will turn out to see the team off as it leaves to play its
second game. Get down to the station with plenty of “PEP.”

LITERARY NEWS

Eumenean and Phi Societies Get First Debates Very Good—More Preparation on Work is Urged

Last Saturday night some very good debates were rendered in the Eumenean Society, this being the first regular program of
the present year. The debate under discussion was: Resolved, “That the League of Nations Should...Be See Us Adopted by the
U.S. Without Amendments,” The affirmative, upheld by J.P. Price, A.M. Mitchell, and J.C. Bailey, brought out the following points: First,
all other methods have failed; second, there must be a league; third, it must be signed now; fourth, the negative
can offer no better plan. The gentlemen developed these points in such a way that they won the decision. The
negative, upheld by J.C. McCaskill, R.L.T. Liston, and W.P. Cummings, argued: First, that the league has a tendency to violate
American supremacy in the Western Hemisphere; second, the league is violated in spirit by European nations; third, a league without
amendments is not necessary. All the contests in the society have heretofore been coming in the spring. Some members think
that it would be advisable to have at least one of these contests in the fall. The president brought this
matter up before the society and there was some discussion but nothing definite was decided.

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me. For
your events, we carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our
Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Next to Pressing Club.

K and mice—that’s RAT-SNAP, the old reliable rodent destroyer. Comes in cakes—no mixing with other food. Your money back if
it fails. KILLS RATS Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co. 25¢ size (1 cake) enough for Pantry, Kitchen, or Cellar. 50¢
size (2 cakes) for Chicken House, coops, or small buildings. $1.00 size (5 cakes) enough for all farm and out-buildings,
storage buildings, or factory buildings. Sold and Guaranteed by Hdw. and White Drug Store.

R.S. Johnson Co. FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY

The first regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society for this year took place last Saturday night. As on the
week previous, the meeting was given over to the initiation of new members. If the year’s work of the society
can be judged by the first meeting, the society is assured of a successful year, for the program was a
good one, coming up to all expectations. The subject of the debate was: “Resolved, That the League of Nations Should
Be Adopted Without Amendments by the United States.” The affirmative side was upheld by J.C. Wool and McLeod, who argued
that the “League” was a good thing and would work as supposed to. The negative, represented by A.L. Wilson and
C.G. Long, contended that the “League” was a bad thing in its present form and would defeat the very purpose
for which it was formed. The judges believed that the bulk of the argument was on the negative as was
evidenced by a unanimous decision. The society was next entertained with a declamation by F.L. Brown. Mooney

This double-breasted model is rather extreme, becoming only to certain young men, but there is a number of men in
that class in this burg—upstanding and up and going, with pep and personality—the type that gets there. Will have a
man on the hill next week with a complete line of suits, etc.

A Full Line of Brown chose as his subject “The Death of Garfield” and delivered it in an interesting manner.
The extemporaneous debate was: Senior Society, Sept. 27, 1919. “Resolved, That the Discharged Soldiers Should Retain Their War Risk Insurance.”
K.N. Booker upheld the affirmative in a very noble manner while H.A. Hill had the great pleasure of appearing before
the society on the negative. While the debate was notable for its great paucity of fact, it made up what
it lacked in this line by the enthusiasm of the speakers. Both men did credit to their ability to speak
extemporaneously. The critic, L.G. Calhoun, made a good talk and one that should be of benefit to all present. He
urged more preparation and greater “pep” on the part of the speakers. Upon the motion of McClure, following a talk
on the subject by A.L. Currie, a committee was appointed to look into the best way of giving the society
publicity and showing its merits to the freshmen in a way that would attract them to the society. The committee
was composed of Currie, Hill, McKeithen, and McClure. The meeting was adjourned in the usual manner; that is, T.H. Spence
making the motion and E.N. Booker seconding it.

BAND—TALK IT UP. Lieutenant Colonel Mueller has plans under way for the organization of a band. Fellows, let’s back him
in it and get up a band that will make Davidson famous. Music will add lots of “pep” to our
drill and make us wish for a longer drill period. There is plenty of musical talent on the hill for
turning out an excellent musical organization.

The Selwyn Hotel FIRE PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping
centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system
of artesian water flowing through the building. H.C. LARZELE, Prop.

Undertaking Supplies See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements Phone 85

FELLOWS I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South. E.N.
BOOKER 18 Watts
