6 The DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1919

RED AND BLACK QUINT

The Red and Black claim that it was the end of a perfect day.

Line-up:
Brown's Safe

Germany (Continued from page 1)

Elon. Position. Davidson.
Stafford and Anderson, for Guilford, played good ball each scoring three baskets.

Line-up:
Guilford. Position. Davidson.
Sides........ Forward... Davenport
McCauley... Center... McAskill
Johnson... Guard... Chalmers

Field goals: Atkinson 2, Sides 2, Johnson 5, Harrington 3, Davenport 2, McAskill 5. Foul goals: Sides 1, Harrington 3.
Time of halves: 20 minutes.

Field goals: Frazier 2, Raiford 1, Stafford 3, Anderson 3, Doubles 1, McAskill 1, Chalmers 1. Foul goals: Frazier 3,
Harrington 3. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

DATE OF JUNIOR SPEAKING (Continued from page 1)

Securing an orchestra from Charlotte and for decorating the chapel are under way. From all prospects, it is to be
one of the greatest speakings held at Davidson. Since the last edition of The Davidsonian, two subjects have been changed.
J. D. Wiley will speak on “Hamlet” and D. W. Roberts will speak on “The Crucified Nation.”

Upsetting all the dope and with the odds three to one on Trinity, the Wildcats staged the prettiest comeback of
the season, and handed Trinity College the small end of a 20 to 19 score. Davidson played rings around the
claimants for the state championship and gave them the first defeat they have received on their home floor in three
years. The game was rough and marred by nine personal fouls. The feature of the game was the passing of
the whole Davidson team and the accurate shooting of McAskill, who caged five baskets.

Showing the effects of an all-day ride and the former five hard games, the Davidson quint were outclassed in the
first half by the heavier Methodists, who were leading by the score of 12 to 6 at the end of
the first half. Rushing Trinity off her feet at the beginning of the second half, the Red and Black soon
were leading their opponents by one point. At this stage of the game, Schenck, who had been playing an awfully
hard game, holding his forward to two goals, was put out on four personal fouls. Doubles, who replaced him, held
his opponent scoreless for the remaining ten minutes. McAskill, at center, played rings around the two Trinity centers put in
to stop him, and was shooting from any angle. The guarding of Hathaway, who allowed only one goal, featured for
Trinity.

Line-up:
Trinity. Position. Davidson.
Starling... Forward... Harrington
Cole... Forward... Davenport
Page... Center... McAskill
Hathaway... Guard... Chalmers
Aldridge... Guard... Schenck

Substitutes: Jeffries for Page, Doubles for Schenck. Field goals: Starling 2, Cole 2, Page 1, Aldridge 1, Jeffries 1, Harrington
1, Davenport 1, Schenck 1, McAskill 5. Foul goals: Cole 5, Harrington 4. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

R. O. T. C. UNIT BEGINS (Continued from page 1)

Members of the R. O. T. C. are at no time considered soldiers of the United States Army. After the
completion of a four-year course of the R. O. T. C., students may be recommended for a commission in the
Officers’ Reserve Corps. This offer means that one qualifying will receive $100 per month and all allowances of a second
lieutenant for six months in some branch of the service. Men who will receive commutation are to be the ones
eligible for the summer training camps. All hours of drill which are missed by any of the students must be
made up later in order to complete the qualifications for graduation, and so it behooves all to be present at
all formations. Cadet officers and non-commissioned officers are to be selected from the student body and companies are being formed
this week.

Prospects for a very successful organization are good and it is to be hoped that no one will prove a
slacker in this part of his military experience any more than the service in time of war.

1916 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE (Continued from page 1)

Thanksgiving gameAt Charlotte has upset Manager Hall's plans, but he states that he is in touch with a team that
will give us equally as good a battle. From the above games, it is to be seen that Manager Hall
is preparing to give Davidson one of the finest schedules she has had in recent years. The teams being played
constitute some of the best in Southern football, showing that the reputation of Davidson in athletics is constantly growing. The
fact that Ga. Tech has given November 1 in Atlanta proves that she considers us worthy opponents as this is
too late in the fall to be counted a practice game. Both teams will be in mid-season form at this
time, so the promise of a battle royal is exceptionally good.

Coach Fetzer states that every indication points to the Red and Black machine being a winner this fall. Six lettermen
of last year’s team will be back for sure, while it seems that Elliott, Burns, Crutch, and Johnston, stars of
the last two seasons, are pretty certain to re-enter college next session. With this aggregation of splendid football material, there
is no doubt but that the fame of the Presbyterian “Wildcats” will spread even farther.

With the win over Trinity to their credit, the Red and Black quint proceeded to hop on Elon College with
both feet and carried off the heavy end of a 23 to 19 score. The game was clean and fast,
long shots by both sides featuring. McAskill again turned the trick by shooting five baskets and incidentally was high man
for his team. Johnson, Elon’s fast captain and guard, came across with five goals also and was easily the star
performer for the home team. Under the heavy guarding of Chalmers and Schenck, the best the Elon forwards could do
was to get two baskets each. For the first time on the trip, Harrington and Davenport were shooting with accuracy
and both played a fine game. Davidson soon wiped out the early four-point lead of Elon, and the score stood
14 to 10 at the end of the first half in favor of Davidson. The second half was nip and
tuck all the way, both teams scoring nine points. Playing more of a defensive game in the second half, Davenport
completely smothered Johnson, his guard, who had been doing all of Elon’s scoring. A reception was tendered the victors after
the game by the girls of Elon College.

F. M. Thompson, '21, who has been in the Navy, has received his discharge and returned to college.

Phone 25-W
Cunningham, the Barber

Attractively priced at BELK BROTHERS
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED

White's Market
Cornelius, N.C.

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

IF YOU SHOT HIM
Come In and CELEBRATE
If You Got Shot
Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT
STOP AND SEE
If I can please you tell others.
If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

CAKES-CANDIES-DRINKS.
We are receiving almost every day young men’s New Spring
COLLEGE JEWELRY
Suits made in the newest models
Watches & Clocks
Kodaks Film and Developing
W.S. HENDERSON
Jeweler
$18.50, 25.00, 27.50, 29.50 and 35.00
Be sure and see these when in the city

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats
TRY US At All Times

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the
one you want. In these factory warerooms, you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices,
you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for
your old piano and in arranging terms to suit.
CATALOG FREE, Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG Co.

BROWN’S
A STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
HIRSH WICKWIRE & BRANDEGEE KINCAID CLOTHING
DUNLAP & STETSON HATS
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street - - CHARLOTTE, N. C.
