6 The DAVIDSONIAN, March 5, 1919

Military Organization Has Been Completed

Four Companies Now Drilling for Five Hours Weekly.

Monday, February 24, 1919, marked the inauguration of the R.O.T.C. in Davidson College, the afternoon of this day being spent
in taking measurements for uniforms. Judging from results, our “Second Lieus.” who did the measuring are better officers than tailors,
for a few days afterwards this work had to be repeated. The carefulness with which these measurements have been taken
is due to the desire of Lieutenant Colonel Mueller to make each man look as neat as possible, which is
impossible with ill-fitting uniforms. After consultation with the faculty, Colonel Mueller has issued orders that uniforms must be worn every
day until the military routine is over. They do not have to be worn on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. When
leaving the Hill, the student can wear his “cits.” and a fact that is very pleasing to the student body
is that this applies also to holidays (which are so numerous that we will not stop to count them). It
also has been decided that the drill work shall be five hours weekly. While the reading of the first announcement
did not seem to displease the students, the second one caused quite a commotion.

The task of organizing the battalion was accomplished last Tuesday notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. The “watery” condition of
the ground and atmosphere did not seem to dampen the spirits and “pep” of the R.O.T.C. applicants in the least.
The battalion was divided into four companies, designated and officered as follows:

Company "A": Captain, W. M. Hall; First Lieutenant, J. V. Taylor; Second Lieutenant, J. R. McKeldin; First Sergeant, M. S.
Cameron. Company roster, 60.

Company "B": Captain, N. Y. Pharr; First Lieutenant, R. L. Black; Second Lieutenant, John D. Watt; First Sergeant, R. C.
Garth. Company roster, 38.

Company "C": Captain, R. D. Hall; First Lieutenant, S. M. Gilbert; Second Lieutenant, J. H. Patterson; First Sergeant, D. P.
McGeachy. Company roster, 63.

Company "D": Captain, W. P. Harris; First Lieutenant, L. C. McAskill; Second Lieutenant, J. H. Sample; First Sergeant, G. M.
Robson. Company roster, 67.

The companies having been organized, orders were given for a little drill work, which was carried out very snappily in
spite of the athletic field being a veritable sea of mud. The companies were then drawn up in the form
of a square to be addressed by Colonel Mueller. In the course of his talk, he outlined the purpose of
the R.O.T.C. to be to train men to adequately meet every emergency, and that if everyone was willing to work
there was no reason why the Davidson Battalion should not equal that of any Military School. Summer camps will be
held this year and quite a few of the students have expressed a desire to attend. Further particulars concerning this
matter will be issued later.

Drill has been progressing nicely all week, the time being occupied by rapidly going over the fundamentals of the “School
of the Soldier” and the “School of the Squad.” It is now planned to have drill in the morning and
only four hours of work a week. This will be done if possible so as not to interfere with baseball
and track practice, but nothing definite has been decided in regard to this. Both of these changes will be gladly
welcomed by the students. The whole student body is well pleased with our commanding officer, for he has shown his
desire to work to the best of his ability. All indications point to the R.O.T.C. being an added feature to
the life on Davidson campus.

FINAL SERVICES OF CAMPAIGN SUCCESSFUL

(Continued from page 1)

They must cast out into the deep to get results. When Christ had risen from the dead, He appeared first
to Mary Magdalene, out of whom He had cast 7 devils, and His first message was sent to Peter, who
only a few days before had denied any knowledge of Him. Thus we see that Christ is willing to forgive
and receive us back even though we have sinned often and denied Him again and again by our actions. At
the close of the meeting, more than 230 men reaffirmed their faith in Christ and four confessed Him.For the first
time. But the real result of the campaign cannot be measured in numbers. It can only be seen in the
lives of the men on the campus and in later life. The students of Davidson owe a debt of gratitude
to Dr. Myers for his giving of himself so freely, to the quartette for their splendid singing, and to Mr.
Miles for his untiring efforts before and during the meeting.

DATE OF VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE IS NEAR
(Continued from page 1)
Plan to leave with the delegation and hand in your name to D. W. Roberts, so entertainment can be provided
for you.

FOOTBALL MEN WEAR THEIR NEW SWEATERS
The football letter men of last fall are wearing a broad smile this week as their “D” sweaters have arrived
and have been given out. The sweaters are neck type and are black with an eight-inch red “D” in front.
As customary, they were given by the Freshman class and are the rewards of hard and long work on the
part of the football men. Those receiving sweaters were: H. M. Spann, L. L. McAllister, S. R. Brady, J. C.
McMaster, H. H. Massey, C. B. Robson, G. M. Robson, L. M. Fischel, and Pitts Douglas.

THE U.S. MILITARY POLICY
Among the books placed in the library during the past week is “The Military Policy of the United States,” written
by Maj. Gen. Emory Upton, U.S.A. This is a valuable book and contains a great deal of helpful information about
the military policies of the United States from the first war with England up through the Civil War. Every man
in the R.O.T.C. should read at least a part of the book.

The school visitor was asking the class a few questions. “Now how do bees dispose of their honey?”
“They cell it,” announced the clever boy of the class.

“What Bible verses best describe the freshman?”
“They toil not, neither do they spin, yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.”—Ex.

That the R.O.T.C. is going to be a success at Davidson College is evident; that is, if the boys, and
it will be, for all the students seem to be heartily behind this matter. With such a man for our
commandant as Colonel Mueller, who is willing to co-operate with the students, there is no doubt but that the R.O.T.C.
will be to the advantage of the students.

SENSIBLE
Does Not Keep Us From Delivering THE BEST FRESH MEAT
PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White’s Market
Phone 25-W
Cornelius, N.C.

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

IF YOU SHOT HIM
Come In and CELEBRATE
If You Got Shot
Come In and Forget It

L. A. ELLIOTT
Next to Pressing Club
CIGARS-CANDIES-DRINKS

Z. K. JUSTICE
(COLLEGE JEWELRY)
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Watches & Clocks
Kodaks
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00
Frye & Gibson
Film and Developing

Will Dye & Fix Your Shoes
W. S. HENDERSON
Jeweler

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others.
If I don’t please, tell me.

Students desiring to work an hour or more a day can make wages of more than $1.00 per hour selling
America’s War for Humanity and Life of Roosevelt. Send at once for free outfit, F. B. DICKERSON CO., Detroit, Mich.,
enclosing 20c in stamps for mailing outfits.

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the
one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices,
you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for
your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG CO.
The Rexall Store

BROWN’S
A STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
HIRSH WICKWIRE & BRANDEGEE KINCAID CLOTHING
DUNLAP & STETSON HATS
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
