Vol. VI. Quips and Cranks

Dope

Everyone will be glad to learn that the 1919 volume of “Quips and Cranks” has been practically completed and has gone to press. Nevertheless, “Amo” wishes to announce, also to urge, that if there is anyone who has any contributions, to hand them in as soon as possible.

At a recent meeting of the student body, it was moved and adopted that the Magazine money should be equally divided between the Annual and The Davidsonian. The Magazine will not be published on account of the lack of proper material.

In the issue of February 26, a letter from Mr. Jackson appeared in which he stated that the government refuses to pay last fall's blanket fee on the ground that it included student publications which were not necessary. This will make the Annual and The Davidsonian a little short on money. However, they intend to collect the deficit from the student body. It is only reasonable that the S. A. T. C. students who received their paper free last fall should pay their share of the blanket fee.

1919 Baseball Schedule Announced In Part

A Northern Trip Pending. Squad Rounding Into Shape.

Despite the inclement weather during the past week, baseball practice has not been lacking except on one or two days when it was impossible to use either the infield or outfield. Prospects are becoming brighter each week for even a more successful year than the previous one, and from a report given out by Manager Cunningham, it is evident that the full schedule will be submitted within the next two weeks.

Clark and Currie, of last year’s pitcher’s staff, are in fine shape and the new material is showing rapid progress. The infield practice during the week was marked with lots of snap and accuracy in handling the “pill.” Every advantage is being given to the men to improve in using the “stick” also, and the scrubs are making it difficult for the old men to score a great number of hits. A number of new men are doing good work in the field and are going to give the old squad some stiff practice if the interest doesn't wane.

Now that a new class schedule has been arranged, putting the military drill in the forenoon, more time can be devoted to practice and before many weeks Davidson will be able to meet her first engagements with brightest hopes.

The short stories of Edgar Allen Poe were discussed at the last meeting of the Sigma Upsilon Fraternity on last Wednesday night. J. J. Love was in charge of the program, which proved to be very interesting. At the close of the meeting, light refreshments were served. W. G. Humphrey, '18, was reinstated at this meeting. L. M. Thomas, '18, was a visitor. On next Wednesday night, Hawthorne’s works will be studied for a short time.

WINNERS OF REPS.

Philanthropic Society
D. M. Chalmers, Charlotte, N.C.
D. W. Roberts, Washington, D.C.
W. E. Hall, Jr., Statesville, N.C.

Eumenean Society
C. A. McGirt, Poulan, Georgia.
H. B. Brown, Little Rock, Ark.
A. L. Wilson, Jr., Quincy, Fla.

The above members of the Junior Class were selected in the recent exercises to represent the two societies in the contest for the Junior Orator’s medal during Commencement.

The Junior Oratorical Exercises, beginning Friday evening and closing Saturday night, proved a very successful occasion. The orations were uniformly good and many of them were of high order. All were delivered well and showed careful preparation. For a time it seemed that the ancient tradition of Junior Speaking lore would topple from its pedestal; but at the last moment Jupiter Pluvius awoke, probably aroused by the eloquent outbursts of vocal adjuration of the great and near-great orators, but he was unable to cast any noticeable damper on the festivities.

When the first subject was announced as Bolshevism, the audience began to be a little uneasy but their fears quickly subsided when the speaker showed that he was master of the situation. Gas in Modern Warfare closely followed this, and it was then that the visitors began to quake, having neglected to bring along any gas masks. The far-seeing faculty, however, had anticipated this need and had thoughtfully installed a splendid new system of ventilators which prevented any evil effects. The effectiveness of these ventilators and their currents of pure, fresh air apparently inspired another speaker to wax eloquent on The Selective Draft. The Triumph of Democracy Over Autocracy was assured when General Pershing was brought to the front. Another speaker had for a subject My Twenty Years in Davidson, and when he took us over those 20 years in some four minutes, we realized that Time, after all, is a small thing. By way of variety, the audience was then treated to A Look Into the Future and The Future of the South was glowingly prophesied. While one speaker tried to inculcate into our minds the evils of the Almighty Dollar, another stoutly defended it.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 12, 1919.and advocated the value of The Pennies. ‘The Freedom of the Seas’ was presented in such a forceful and compelling way that one of the speakers was tempted to Launch Out Into the Deep—without any serious results, however. But the speaker who best expressed the feelings of the Juniors had for his subject ‘The Crisis,’ which, thanks to the presence of the Ideal Physician, was finally safely passed.

Glee Club Concert

On last Saturday night, the Glee Club rendered the first program of the season. The splendid program given surpassed all expectations. The program was as follows: College Vies, by the entire Club; Violin Duet, by Cunningham and Gaston; ‘The Navy Took Them Over,’ by the entire Club; Piano Solo, by M. A. Tremaine; Selection by Mandolin and Guitar Trio, by Inman, McQueen, and Shields; Quartette, ‘Little Puff of Smoke, Good Night,’ by Currie, Lowe, Shields, and McGeachy; Comedy Sketch by C. H. Cathey.

During the intermission which followed, the following men were awarded letters: Chalmers, Hall, Schenck, Harrington, basketball D's; McCaskill, D with a star, and J.D. Watt, a manager's D. Fishel and C. B. Robson, football letters. ‘O! Davidson,’ was then given by the entire club; Shields then gave a solo, ‘Dear Old Pal of Mine.’ Next, ‘I'll Say She Does,’ was given by Love and Chorus, after which a character sketch was given by Shields. The program was closed by ‘O! Susie Behave’ by the entire Club.

As space does not permit enumeration of all the many features that deserve individual praise, let it suffice to say that the features of the evening were the solo by Shields and the leading part played by Love in the song ‘I'll Say She Does.’

Fraternity Reception

The annual swimming meet of Junior Speaking took place Saturday night when a few daring couples attempted to (Continued on page 6)

1919 BASEBALL SCHEDULE (Other games pending)

April 4—Oak Ridge
April 5—A. and E.
April 17—Univ. of Va.
April 21—Univ. of N. C.
April 22—Elon
April 23—Elon
April 24—Trinity
April 25—A. and E.
April 26—A. and E.
April 28—Trinity
April 30—Furman
May 1—Clemson

at Davidson
at Gastonia
at Charlotte
at Winston-Salem
at Greensboro
at Greensboro
at Durham
at Raleigh
at Raleigh
at Durham
at Greenville
at Clemson

Intercollegiate

Preliminaries for the Intercollegiate Debate will be held Friday, the 14th. The question is: ‘Resolved, That the proposed League of Nations should be adopted by the U.S.’ Three men from each society will be chosen to debate in the finals March 28. At this latter date, the team will be chosen, consisting of two men and one alternate.

The preliminaries of the Fresh-Soph debate will be held next Monday, the 17th. The subject is, ‘Resolved, That all able-bodied men under 21 should be required to take one year of military training.’ Three men will be chosen from each society to debate in the finals March 23. All Freshmen and Sophomores are eligible, and it is hoped that many will try out for it.

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Sloan, former residents of Davidson, are remodeling their house on Concord Avenue.

Tennis Given Impetus By ‘D’ Being Awarded

Tournament to Begin March 24th. Interesting Contests Expected.

A question long debated at Davidson was decided at a recent meeting of the Athletic Association when it was finally agreed upon that the coveted ‘D’ would hereafter be awarded in tennis. This custom has been in vogue for several years at the larger colleges with a high degree of success, and the decision of the Athletic Association to do likewise will be favorably received by all. It has not yet been decided as to what kind of letter will be given, but in all probability, this will be a five-inch block ‘D’ with crossed rackets beneath it. There will be only one letter awarded this year, this going to the champion in singles, but the chances are that letters will also be given in doubles later on. Now that the skill and efforts of the tennis players are to be rewarded in a suitable manner, interest in this game should be greatly increased.

R. B. Cunningham, manager of tennis, when interviewed last week, stated that the tennis tournament would be held beginning March 24. He desires all players wishing to enter this tournament to hand in their names before the 22nd, accompanied by a 50-cent entrance fee for singles and a 25-cent fee each for doubles. The money obtained in this way will be used in getting other college teams on the Hill if possible. He also stated that the balls would be furnished by the individual players. He is making every effort to ensure the success of this tournament, and with the cooperation of the students, there should be many close contests.

“Papa, do ministers use carbolic acid?”
“Why, no.”
“Well, they oughta. I heard Uncle John say it burns hell out of people.”—Purple Cow.