49 | Fw Students had > AVwSONIAN [== FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 17, 1919. No. 3

FRATS AUGMENT THEIR FORCES WITH NEW MEN

The following men have been initiated into the various fraternities:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: L. O. Hammett.
Kappa Sigma: B. W. Romefelt.
Pi Kappa Alpha: H. C. Williamson.
Bachelors: E. A. Nash, A. C. Ormond, Jr., M. R. Doubles, M. F. Toms, and L. P. Good.
K. A.: Harold McKeithan, pledged.

“Y” Room Improved; New Piano Added

Rest Room Now a Musical Centre—Both Talented and Untalented Find Great Pleasure There

“Every great institution is the lengthened shadow of a single man.” So it is with our Y. M. C. A. at Davidson. Several years ago found our social center over the old gymnasium in disuse and the activities of the association (which have always played an important role in campus life) were below par. Now, through the efforts of a few interested men, the association is in the first rank on the hill and everyone is backing it. To “Bob” Miles we must give most of the credit. The newly furnished room in the Alumni Gymnasium is one of which the whole student body should be justly proud. The new player piano is in use at almost all hours of the day and night and one seldom finds the room unoccupied. Soon a new victrola will replace the old one which has not been in use for the past week. This room affords more pleasure to the students than any other single means of its kind on the hill. You know the old saying about the devil and idle hands, but at our new social center, loafing times can be spent in a congenial atmosphere.

Is it pretty? Just ask those young ladies who declared it “darling” and the older folk who thought it “so attractive.”

CHOICE OF READING

To even the most discerning reader often comes the question, “What shall I read next?” With twenty-six thousand volumes confronting him on almost every field of study, this is by no means an easy question to answer. Davidson is distinctively a Southern college, its students coming from homes over the entire South. This being the case, why not read some Southern literature? The average man entering Davidson has read selections from Shakespeare, Scott, Dickens, Thackeray, and the other noted dramatists and novelists, but how many have read about their own country or their own State? Let’s make this year our best. Why not have “Systematic Reading” for a motto and start with one of the most noted novelists and diplomats of today—Thomas Nelson Page.

CALENDAR

Thursday Night, 7:30—Bible Classes Leaders’ Meeting.
Friday Night—Probably Movies.
Saturday—Davidson vs. Guilford at Winston-Salem.
Sunday Morning, 10—Bible Classes.
Sunday Night, 7—"Y” Service.
Monday Night—Freshman Societies.

Mary Pickford and Others to Appear on Campus

“Y” to Run the Very Best Features Every Friday Night

The contract for the Y. M. C. A. moving picture for the year has been signed. Mr. Miles hopes to have one here for next Friday night. It is the plan of the committee to have a picture every Friday night for the entire scholastic year. It is quite possible that the picture will not arrive in time for the coming Friday but after that things will move along smoothly. “Nothing but the best Paramount and Artcraft pictures are to be shown. In these pictures, such stars as Douglas Fairbanks, Mary Pickford, Marguerite Clark, John Barrymore, James Pickford, Dustin Farnum, and Wallace Reid are to be featured. There is to be no door fee, as the Y. M. C. A. has charge of it, but anyone desiring to make a contribution will be given the opportunity to do so. A box will probably be placed at the door so that all desiring to help with the expense can give as they see fit. As the money for this part of the “Y” program comes directly from the students alone, the town people will be asked to help bear part of the expense. Although no effort at subscriptions has been made as yet, several of the town people have signified their willingness to contribute. The student operators of the machine are becoming more proficient every week and are running practically without a slip. The Y. M. C. A. hopes that everyone will enjoy all the pictures.

Jack Black, Former Football Star, Great Asset

He Will be at His Old Position in Backfield This Year—Game Good at Present

Jack Black, who in former years was an outstanding star and tower of strength on the Red and Black eleven, has now returned to college and will occupy his regular position in the backfield. Jack left college in the spring of—

“Seek and Ye Shall Find” Our Annual, Maybe

Efforts Are Being Made to Ascertain Cause of Delay

“When will we get our annual?” was one of the first questions every old man asked when he got back on the Hill. Each time he received the same answer, “Nobody knows.” “Amo Love is supposed to have shipped the annual by express two or three days after the close of school, but according to all reports from the printer, nothing has been received except the advertisements. H. B. Brown, who is manager of this year’s annual, is communicating with Mr. Love and the publishers, and as soon as anything definite is learned an announcement will be made. From all the information available, the money, with the exception of that spent on engravings, is in the bank, and nothing will be done until it is decided definitely whether or not the annual will be published.

KILLING A NURSERY RHYME

Mother—And are you learning anything in your lessons in natural history in—School, Mthel? Ethel—Io think I am, mamma. Mother—What have you learned? Ethel—Well, it's taught me to think that it wasn't a cow that jumped over the moon at all; that it was a kangaroo. The student body will be present to enjoy all the pictures.

He entered the first officers’ training camp at which he received his commission as second lieutenant. He was in active service in France for over a year, during which time he was promoted to first lieutenant. We are glad to welcome Jack back at college again because, besides being a good athlete, he is an excellent fellow in every respect. His position at halfback has been well filled since he has been away, but he will have no trouble in gaining it again this year. With Jack to help out, it looks like Davidson is going to “mop up” this year.

Prof. Overcash Soon to Leave for Florida
Dr. Hunt of Howard University to Take His Place

Professor Overcash, who has been assisting in the department of Natural Science, graduated at Davidson College in the year of 1915, receiving the B.S. degree. From here he went as a professor of Natural Science to Catawba College. There he spent two years, 1915-17. During the summer of 1917, he took a special course in Biology at the University of Virginia. In the fall of 1917-18, on account of the absence of Dr. McConnell from Davidson College, Professor Overcash came here to take up his work. In the summer of 1918, he entered the service of his country, going into the department of public health service, being located at Camp Sheridan, Ala. Professor Overcash is with us again this year due to the illness of Dr. McConnell. From here he will go as the professor of Natural Science to Palmer College, DeFuniak, Fla. Dr. Martin has been able to secure Dr. Hunt from Harvard. He has not arrived yet but is expected within the next few days. He will receive a cordial welcome both by the faculty and students.

Montgomery, HAND BOOK SOON READY; TO BE BETTER THAN EVER

When interviewed recently, Editor C. M. McCaskill stated that the “Y” is almost ready to present to the students of Davidson College its Hand Book for the year 1919-20. The “dummy” was shipped last week. It was carried to the depot by a detail, which body also served as a heavy guard. The private escort was commanded by J. W. Witherspoon and James Whatnot Witherspoon. The aforesaid gentlemen witnessed the safe departure of this article on train No. 18. The printed hand book is expected to be here on the Hill ready for distribution by the 29th of this month. Editor McCaskill and Manager Morrison declare that this year's hand book is to be better than any previous one. They are trying some new features in this edition which have never before been attempted in a hand book of any nationality, race, or people. It is hoped that this edition will prove to be a great success.

A Word To The Wise Is Sufficient

The day has passed when charity is tolerated in business. The business man of today wishes to realize in dollars and cents value received for the money he expends. Realizing this, the Davidsonian wishes to have its friends study the advertisements appearing in each issue and give them their hearty support. They have invested their money in advertising—they expect it to bring full value. If it doesn’t, no argument can be advanced for their continuous business. Patronize them and tell them why—they are our friends—mention The Davidsonian.

OSCAR J. THIES, JR., BECOMES ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY

Another member has been added to the faculty, in the department of chemistry. Assistant Professor O. J. Thies, Jr., graduated from Davidson College in 1918. The year of 1918-1919 he spent at Boston in the further pursuit of the study of chemistry. This year he comes to us to help with the work in the chemistry department. When asked something concerning his history, Professor Thies remarked, “I hope to have a better future than a history.”

Why Not Be a Wearer of the Golden Quill?
Davidsonian to Have Efficient Reporters in This Manner

Do you know what the Golden Quill is and what it represents? At the suggestion of our able editor-in-chief, Dave Roberts, it was decided last year that the members of the reporters’ club of the Davidsonian should have a reward for their work with a definite goal for which to work. A pin made in the form of a quill is now being designed by an artist to be given to a limited number of the reporters. This pin will be solid gold and will be given by the Davidsonian to the lucky ones entitled to it. The exact number to be awarded this exceptional token of appreciation for their help in making the Davidsonian “The Livest Wire on the Hill,” has not been decided. However, every member of the club has a chance that comes to no one else. Every article written by the reporters is strictly graded by a member of the staff, and to remain in the club, a certain average has to be maintained. The Golden Quill will probably be awarded on this principle but the average requirement will be much higher. Freshmen will not have the opportunity of “making” their quill this year, but they should begin reporting now that they may be in line for it next year.

WE KNOW THIS FELLOW

They were sitting in a secluded corner of the veranda. For a long time, neither of them had spoken. Suddenly he took her little hand in his. His voice was choked with emotion as he said: “Do you think you could ever learn to love a man—” “Yes,” she interrupted with a soft whisper. “Bring on your man.” —St. Louis Post Dispatch.

GUILFORD HERE SATURDAY. GAME CALLED AT 3 O'CLOCK