The DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1919

The Davidsonian
Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered as second-class matter at the Postoffice, Davidson, N. C.

EDITORIAL BOARD.
F. A. Woods......... Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Chalmers... .. Managing Editor
D. W. Roberts... .. Assignment Editor

THE STAFF.
B. E. Shields
S. W. McCloy
Kimery Flyne
W. M. Currie

MANAGEMENT.
Business Manager
Circulation Manager
K. G. Lilly
J. R. Boulware, Jr.
W. T. Dunlap, Jr.
A. R. Craig
E. A. Turner
T. R. Alexander... . Assistant Manager
C. J. Matthews... . Assistant Manager
J. P. Price... . Assistant Manager

Reporters for this issue are:
A. L. Wilson, R. R. McIlwaine, McDowell Richards, J. P. Price, M. R. Doubles, J. W. Phillips, J. M. Gaston, P. M. Dugger, W. P. Cumming, Al C. Ormond, F. E. Manning, L. F. Clark, I. C. McCaskill, J. R. Walker, B. B. Breitenhirt, A. M. Mitchell, J. F. Cassell, T. H. Spence, I. B. Schenck, E. H. Denny, and G. H. Cornelson.

SUBSCRIPTION, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

The following are four editorials handed in recently as Fresh English assignments. We submit them without comment or correction:

THE COLLEGE Y. M. C. A.
When the S. A. T. C. was established in the colleges, the Y. M. C. A. also sent men to help look after the welfare of the men. Now though the S. A. T. C. is disbanded, in a great many cases the Y man is left. These men should receive more hearty support from the college men. They show a great deal of enthusiasm when it comes to the picture shows, reading matter, etc., furnished by the Y. M. C. A. but very little in regard to the weekly services which they also furnish in the person of their representative. This should not be, while the picture shows are meant for them to enjoy, the religious services are meant for them to get some benefit from, and it seems hardly fair for the men to accept the recreations which the Y gives them and not be willing to help boost the work for which it is primarily intended, the betterment of the morals of young men.

SINGING ON THE CAMPUS.
One thing that seems to have died out with the S. A. T. C. is the singing on the campus. During the fall it seemed that the fellows were always singing. The strains of familiar songs like "Pack Up Your Troubles,” “There's a Long, Long Trail” and “Smile” could be heard many times during the day, especially when the fellows were marching to mess and were coming in from drill. Almost every night just before taps fellows could be heard singing in front of the dormitories. Even up in chapel the very walls were made to tingle. Since Christmas, however, everything seems to have changed. The singing up in chapel these mornings is pitiful. It is all done by the few men around the piano. What little singing is done around on the campus is fine, but there is hardly any of it. As we all know, one of the very best ways a fellow can keep up his spirits is by singing. It drives away the blues and makes a man feel full of pep. Can there be any doubt, therefore, why the military authorities encouraged singing among our soldiers, and why our army became known as “the singing army?” Of course, not all of us can sing well, but we can at least carry a tune, and even if we can't we're mighty glad to listen to those who can, and can encourage them.

EQUIPMENT NEEDED FOR GYMNASIUM.
Through the loyalty and generosity of her alumni, Davidson has recently been presented with a large and handsome gymnasium. At present, however, the apparatus, so necessary for a really good gymnasium, is lacking, and consequently the students of Davidson lose an opportunity for much pleasant and profitable recreation. The outdoor “gym” fills this gap to some extent, but it cannot wholly compensate for the lack of equipment. Some steps have already been taken toward supplying at least a small amount of apparatus. Last year each of the four classes in college bought a small Liberty bond, to be donated to the college and used for the improvement of the gymnasium. Up to the present time, however, nothing further has been done and there seems to be no prospect of the work being accomplished this year. Since the student body of Davidson has begun this work, why should it not carry it through to completion? It has been customary for each Senior class to make a parting gift to the college as it goes out from her walls. Why could not these gifts for the next few years take the form of weights and bars to be used in the gymnasium? No gift could be more useful to the college.

THE KNOCKER.
You never saw a rich man laugh at a poor man. You never saw an athlete sneer at a cripple. You never saw a deep and truestudent make fun of an illiterate. And you never will. A man seldom looks down on his inferior, or one less fortunate than he. The man who habitually criticizes and knocks—knocks those who are better than he is, and the knocker knows it. Jealousy is the root of all knocking, and the man who indulges in continual fault-finding will search himself in vain for any other motive. If such a student will substitute for his petty self-centeredness and conceitedness, an earnest ambition to reach the levels of those whom he knocks, he will become of greater service to humanity and especially to Davidson. It may be found everywhere. Evil sneers at goodness, ignorance at education, error at truth, impurity at purity. Fellow students, don’t forget that a helpful, not a knocking, criticism about the college helps to lift it up. Don't be a knocker, be an optimist. Don't ask for milk when you see the cream pitcher.

H. M. MARVIN GOES TO ARMENIA

H. M. Marvin, ‘14, has just received an appointment to go to Armenia in medical relief work. He will leave before the 15th of February. He and another doctor will have charge of a hospital of one hundred beds. Marvin graduated from Davidson in 1914. He was one of the leaders in the student activities on the campus. He was on the intercollegiate debating team; an honor roll student during his whole course here; and leaving here he graduated from Harvard Medical School in February, 1917, with honors. Since that time he has been working in a hospital under the direction of the Surgeon General of the Army, fitting himself to go across as an army surgeon.

The Forum

THE FRESHMEN'S LACK OF COURTESY.

Freshmen on the campus are not as they used to be. Perhaps, to those who were here during the S. A. T. C., the fact is not so striking. Life on the campus being so abnormal, the older men became accustomed to lapses that are very apparent to those returning. To them it is painfully noticeable that the Freshmen have not the Davidson spirit, the spirit of democracy and courtesy. The thing especially in the mind of the writer is the fact that a great many of the present class make no pretense of speaking. This, one of the oldest customs in the college, is one of the most delightful things about Davidson. It is the thing which most impresses the strangers on the campus. The men most severely criticized are those who do not extend this courtesy. It marks a man more than any one thing. It is the very expression of Davidson democracy. We cannot afford to let such a custom decline. Some influential man should speak to the class, telling them the traditions and customs of the college. Can you hold a man responsible for mistakes such as this, when he does not know what is expected of him?

GET ON THE TRACK.

The spring-like days of the past week remind us that the track season is approaching. Out of last year's team only two letter men have returned, these being J. E. McQueen and H. P. Murrey. In the recent elections McQueen was elected captain and Murrey manager of the team. The date for the annual field meet has not yet been determined. This meet will bring out the most promising material from which the Varsity squad will be chosen. Although handicapped by the lack of old men returning, prospects look good and Davidson is sure to turn out a successful team. Davidson will enter the State meet and will also enter the All-Southern meet held at Georgia Tech.

LIBRARY BOOKS.

Among the new books that have been received recently in the library that will interest the students most are: “In the Heart of a Fool,” White; “Tin Soldiers,” Bailey; “An American Family,” Webster; “The W. P. Trail,” Jane Grey; “Cheerful by Request,” Ferber; “Winds of Chance,” Beach; “Call of the Offshore Wind,” Paine; “Valley of the Giants,” Kyne.

At a meeting of the football “D” men last Thursday morning H. M. Spann was elected captain for the 1919 season.

Rembrandt Studio
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WILL CONVINCE YOU.
27 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office
O. J. RADER, Proprietor

TYPEWRITING
A. P. ORMOND

We Knock the Spots Out
The Charlotte Steam Laundry
KEY and McCASKILL, Agts.
We'll get 'em on Monday Nights

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial
At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL.D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT
Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.