With the Alumni

What may be deemed a remarkable recognition of the abilities of two Davidson graduates was shown in the recent call
extended by the Grace Covenant Memorial Presbyterian Church, of Richmond, Va., to Rev. Chas. L. King, '14, to become pastor,
and Rev. Marion A. Boggs, '15, to become associate pastor of that church. Remarking on this unusual call, The Richmond
Virginian stated that “the interest in this action is threefold, because Grace Covenant is the largest Presbyterian church in Richmond,
because it is almost, if not quite, unprecedented for a congregation to call two pastors at one meeting, and because
of the youthfulness and unusual promise of the two men who were called.”

Both young men are recent graduates of Davidson and have attended Union Seminary. Mr. King came to Davidson from Covington,
Ga., and during his course here represented the college in intercollegiate debating and took a prominent part in all student
activities. In addition to his many honors won at Davidson, he won the Moses D. Hoge fellowship for post-graduate study
at Union Seminary last year. Mr. Boggs is now in his senior year at Union. He came to Davidson from
Liberty, S.C., and closed his fourth year with a splendid record. These two young men have the hearty congratulations from
every Davidson alumnus and the best wishes of all for their success in this splendid field.

CLASS OF 1909, LISTEN:

Jan. 16, 1919, Camp Songe, France.

Editor of The Davidsonian:

As Senior President of the class of 1909, I am taking this method of announcing to all members of that
class, wherever they may be, that this is the year of our reunion, the tenth anniversary of our graduation. And
I ask them, wherever they are, whatever they are doing, in France or the U.S.A., to come to Davidson if
possible for the commencement of 1919.

As has always been the case, since September 1905, when as Freshmen we pulled off a class meeting right under
the noses of the Sophs, ours has always been a lucky class and one especially favored of the gods. This
year ours will be the first ‘Victory Reunion!’ Great will be the gathering and wondrous the tales to tell of
the wars and near-wars in which some of us have participated—tales of training camps in the United States from Washington
to Florida, of camps and the ‘front’ in France, of Chateau-Thierry, the Argonne, St. Mihiel and all the rest. None
of us will want to miss it, so begin now to arrange to be among those present. None of us
over here knows when we shall get back, but let the reunion go on.

If this gets to the notice of any ex-Davidsonian who knows of the whereabouts of any of the class of
1909, please see to it that he reads it. And if any of the present students know of an ‘09er
back home, please send him an extra copy of this issue.

Sincerely yours,
Hugh H. Query, '09,
2d Lieut. 28th F. A. A. P.O. 705,
France.

News has just been received of the citation for bravery of Lieut. J. Lee Crowell, Jr., ex-'18, of Concord, N.C.,
in the advance of the Eighty-first Division in the Verdun sector on the 9th, 10th, and 11th of November. Lieutenant
Crowell “advanced his platoon in an extraordinary manner in the face of an extremely heavy artillery barrage and machine gun
fire and advanced to a point well forward in the line in an orderly formation. He displayed unusual courage and
coolness and by his action held his platoon well in hand, halting his advance only when hostilities ceased.”

Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

Lieut. Porter P. Vinson, '09, who has been with a hospital unit inItaly for the past few months, will return
at an early date to become a member of the staff of the Mayo Hospital, in Rochester, Minn. Dr. Vinson
will have charge of one of the departments in this world-known medical center.

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men's Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics.
We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

-----EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR-----

Friends of Capt. K. T. Cansler, '10, sorrow with him in the recent death of his wife on February 18.
Captain Cansler has been with the American Army of Occupation in Germany, but a cablegram was received in Charlotte on
the date of his wife's death that he is on his way to America now.

WORLD FORUM TO BE ORGANIZED THURSDAY

ED. MELLON CO.

The first meeting of the “Y" forum was held last Thursday night at 7:40 in Mr. Miles’ office in the
gymnasium. The purpose of these meetings is the studying of international problems and their bearing on Christianity. Such questions as
“The Call for Reality in Religious Life” and “The Call of the World's Present Need” will be among the interesting
questions to be studied at these meetings. The subject of the first book to be studied is “The Call of
a World Task in War Time,” by J. Lovell Murray. About fifteen men were present at the Thursday night meeting.
The purpose of the meeting was to make plans for the organization of the club. A motion was made and
passed that the officers be elected next Thursday. The officers will be a president, a vice-president, and a secretary. E.
L. Woods, E. G. Lilly, and S. W. Roberts were appointed by Mr. Miles as a committee to decide on
a name for the organization. The name “World Forum” has been selected. The meetings will be held on Thursday night
at 7:40, in Mr. Miles’ office unless the numbers call for a larger place. ALL men interested are invited to
be present at the next meeting.

See me if you are looking for the very BEST HOME MADE CAKES, PIES, CANDY & SANDWICHES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES, CHEWING
GUM & COLD DRINKS.

GEO. H. BEALL, JR.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS BALLS, MITTS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES

SPEAKS ON RECEPTION OF HOME-COMING SOLDIERS

The Sunday morning service at the church last Sunday was conducted by Capt. F. L. Slaymaker. Captain Slaymaker, who has
been in active service for nineteen months, is now making talks throughout the South in the interest of returned soldiers.
He made a stirring talk on the “Dangers and Opportunities of Home-coming Soldiers.” The main danger is that the soldier
will feel a reaction against the strain and restriction of army life. The opportunity of the church is not only
to give these men a Christian welcome, but also to assist the thousands who have seen a vision of their
duty to God, and are eager to enter into His service. The church has an immediate opportunity for helping these
men. Its motto should be Romans 12:10: “Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord.”

Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS

L. B. LONG

HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY

LITTLE ROCK TEAM GETS “DUTCH” HENGEVELD

“Dutch” Hengeveld, '18, star hurler and batsman of Coach Fetzer’s baseball teams for the last three years, has been signed
for the summer by the Little Rock Southern Association club. It has leaked out that this is only one of
several big offers extended to “Dutch” by the big clubs in the last two years. We are sure that “Dutch”
will make a whooping, big show-up and a great record this summer with the pill and stick.

Farm Produce Bought and Sold
