THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 27, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

Prof. A. Currie Great Factor in Developing Davidson's Debating Teams

Has Great Gift as an Impressive Teacher—Came to Davidson in 1901

Archibald Currie was born at Hillsboro, N. C., in 1876. He entered Davidson College in 1893, graduating in 1897 with the A.B. degree, having won the Debater’s Medal. He then taught for one year at Coleman, Texas. For three years following, he was principal of the Davidson High School. In 1901, he was elected adjunct professor of Mathematics, Latin, and Greek at Davidson. In 1912, he became Professor of Elementary Law, Public Speaking, and Political Science.

Prof. Currie is a past master in the art of teaching. He imparts knowledge with singular thoroughness. His facility of illustration, his incisive directness in discussion, and the clearness of his every utterance, make him a professor always able to add clearness and sharpness of definition to the so often blurred images in a student’s mind. It is not to be forgotten that a very large part of the success of Davidson’s debating teams is due to Prof. Currie. As chairman of the committee of the faculty on inter-collegiate debates, he takes an active interest in the work of these teams, advises them, and superintends generally their work in preparation for these contests. In the same field is his supervision of the Oratorical exercises of the junior and senior classes each year.

E. B. Burns Cited for Bravery.

E. B. Burns, ex '19, Co. K. 118 infantry was cited by General Pershing “for distinguished and exceptional gallantry at Villeret, France, on September 26th, 1918.” During the operations near Villeret this soldier acted as stretcher bearer and never hesitated during the heaviest enemy shell fire and for four days and nights worked almost continuously administering to the wounded. On one occasion, when a comrade was wounded in an advanced outpost, about 250 yards in front of the line, Burns volunteered to go and get him through very heavy shell fire and in plain view of the enemy, carried the wounded man to a place of safety; saving his life.” A shell exploded so close to them that Mr. Burns’ watch was torn from his arm.

R. O. T. C. NEWS.

Who Will Get the Trophy?

An increased desire to do the best possible work in the drills should move all of us: Major Hall authorizes the statement that at all parades the drill is closely observed and the platoon performing its part best is picked and a record kept. At the end of the session the platoon which has been picked oftenest will be awarded an appropriate trophy, one of which the members of the platoon may be proud. Every platoon should do its best, for all have an equal chance to win. At the parade Friday afternoon the 2nd platoon of C company, under Lt. Doubles, was chosen as the best. Which will be next?

Purchase of Clothing and Supplies.

Army clothing and supplies may be purchased at the quartermaster’s prices by students in the R. O. T. C. This clothing is very serviceable, and is much cheaper than civilian clothing, and it may be to your interest to look into the matter. Anyone desiring prices or other information should see Sgt. Carroll at once. After the supply now in the armory is exhausted no overcoats will be issued to students. This is a recent ruling, and men who are not now fitted and who cannot get fitted are advised to buy a regulation overcoat, price $13.50, and thereby obtain the full outfit. It is possible that overcoats will be needed for parades when the colder weather arrives, and it willspoil the appearance of the outfit to have two or three men not fully equipped. If you are not supplied, investigate the matter at once. At the end of one year, the uniforms issued to R.O.T.C. students will become their own. The student will then be entitled to a new issue. The Davidson R.O.T.C. will not be subject to a new issue before February. No more overcoats will be issued. The ones already out, however, will not be taken up, but will become the personal property of their owners after one year. The extra shirts, hat straps, and insignia that have never come will be issued on their arrival.

L. A. Chambliss, ’19, is an advertising copywriter in the Publicity Department of the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York. He is living at 200 W. 109th Street. Rev. R. C. Long, '13, has been elected State Chaplain of the American Legion of West Virginia. Mr. Long entered the service as a private and left it as Chaplain, ranking as first lieutenant.

FACULTY EXTENDS CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS

Christmas holidays have been extended four days longer. Exams are over on Friday, the 19th, and college opens again Friday, January 2nd. This decision was reached by the faculty after considering the fact that many students live so far away. Many boys would not get home before Christmas day if school did not close before the 23rd. Everybody can now reach home in time to help Santa Claus in his great work.

QUEENS COLLEGE ALUMNAE ASSOCIATION PRESENTS JOHN McCORMACK SONG RECITAL AT THE AUDITORIUM CHARLOTTE, N. C. DECEMBER THE FIRST AT 8:30

Town News.

Dr. C. E. Sage, Secretary of the Board of General Education of New York City, was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Martin on Monday. Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell entertained at their home Thursday evening all the overseas students. Dr. Porter Vinson, of Mayo Brothers, Rochester, Minn., and Mrs. Vinson, are visiting his mother. Miss Eloise Martin is expected home from Converse College for the Thanksgiving holidays. Rev. Mr. Gilbert, who assisted Dr. Lingle at Camp Meade, Maryland, was a visitor this week. Miss Fannie Wallace, Davidson co-ed, is spending the weekend at Cleveland, N.C. R. Wallace, ’23, and M. W. McGill, ’22, were also visitors of Mr. Walter Roseman of the same place. Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McAllister, of Greensboro, parents of L. L. McAllister, were here for the Davidson-P.C. game. They were the guests of Mrs. J. P. Parsley. Because of the illness of her mother, Miss Maud Vinson has resigned her principalship of the graded schools. The friends of Mrs. Vinson will be glad to know that she is recovering from her recent serious illness.

PRICES $3.50 AND $2.50 FOR RESERVATIONS ADDRESS THE SECRETARY, 315 REALTY BUILDING

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats

You will find our stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear --- the Best of Quality.

Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts

We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly.

MELLON’S
10 WEST TRADE ST.

GREETINGS

Christmas and New Year Announcements and Monograms

Select your Christmas Cards NOW. When in Charlotte, call and see what we have to offer.

Queen City Printing Company
14 and 16 East Fourth St.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories, Stimulating

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold