THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

Athletic News | Football Gleanings — Current News in the Realm of Footballdom

The University of Virginia eleven secured a 7-0 decision over the V. M. I. Cadets last Saturday. Leech and Ingram, V. M. I.'s fast backs, were stars of the game. V. M. I. executed several pretty forward passes and frequently threatened Virginia by this plan of attack.

Georgia Tech eliminated Vanderbilt from the Southern football championship titles by defeating the Commodores 20 to 0. Flowers proved to be the particular star of the day, making all three touchdowns and at times running through the entire Vanderbilt team, on one occasion for 70 yards and a touchdown.

With six varsity men out of the game, the University of North Carolina defeated Wake Forest by a score of 6 to 0. The game was played in a sea of mud and rain.

Washington and Lee defeated the Norfolk Naval Base 78-0. N. C. State a week ago defeated the Sailors 100-0.

Clemson was defeated by Auburn 7 to 0, but she deserves much credit for her splendid playing and hard fighting spirit.

The University of Georgia defeated the strong Sewanee eleven by a score of 13 to 0.

Possibly the biggest surprise of the week in the realm of football was the Syracuse defeat of Pittsburgh by a decisive score of 24 to 3.

Furman defeated P. C. 6-0 and Wofford the Citadel 12 to 0. Georgetown 33, U. P. 7.

N. C. State College downed Roanoke College by a score of 78 to 0. Coach Fetzer’s eleven used only straight football and on only one occasion, with nine substitutes in the game, did she fail to make first down. Roanoke did not make a single first down.

Great interest is being centered on the N. C. State and Univ. of N. C. game which is to be played in Raleigh, Thursday, October 23. Both teams are in the best of trim and are centering every effort on this game. The teams are very evenly matched in weight as may be seen from statistics:

University Eleven.
Average weight of line .......... 172
Average weight of backfield ...... 159
Average weight of team .......... 168

N. C. State.
Average weight of line .......... 176
Average weight of backfield ...... 158
Average weight of team .......... 169

MISSING.

A Sunday School principal was trying to make clear to his class the fundamental doctrines of the Declaration of Independence.

“Now, boys,” he said, “I will give you each three ordinary buttons. Here they are. You must think of the first one as representing Life, of the second as representing Liberty, and the third one as representing the Pursuit of Happiness. Next Sunday I will ask you each to produce the three buttons and tell me what they represent.”

The following Sunday the teacher said to the youngest member: “Now, Johnnie, produce your three buttons and tell me what they stand for.”

“I ain’t got ‘em all,” he sobbed, holding out two of the buttons. “Here's Life, an’ here’s Liberty, but mommer sewed the Pursuit o’ Happiness on my pants.” —Ex.

CARELESS COOTIE!

A top sergeant called the doughboy's attention to a cootie crawling up the front of his coat. The doughboy carefully picked the animal off and placed it inside his coat.

“Get inside, you little fool!” said the private. “Want to catch pneumonia?”

GEORGIA STILL MAINTAINS LEAD IN DORMITORY BASKETBALL.

North Wing, 24—Louisiana, 22.

North Wing Chambers defeated Louisiana in a hard-fought and interesting basketball game Tuesday afternoon by the close score of 24 to 22. Although the Chambers team, by shooting many pretty shots from every corner of the floor, led their opponents by several baskets, the younger dormitory, by good passing and teamwork, reduced Chambers’ lead to one basket by the end of the first half. The second half opened with plenty of “pep,” each team determined to win, but neither team could top their opponents’ score by more than one basket. When the final whistle blew, Chambers led by one field basket.

Chambers, Position. Louisiana.
Elliott.......... RF........ Dick
Covington....... LF....... Brake
McCutchen....... C....... Houghton
Wilson.......... RG....... McLaurin
Schenck......... LG....... Murchison

Substitutions: Cornelson for McCutchen, Brown for Elliott. Field goals: Covington 7, Wilson 3, Brake 5, Dick 4, Houghton 2, Schenck 1. Fouls: Covington 2. Referee, Oltman; timekeeper, Doubles; scorer, Hyland.

Georgia 16—Rumple 10.

On Thursday afternoon Georgia added another victory to her list by winning from Rumple 16 to 10. The game was characterized by hard and rough playing and inability to locate the basket. The game started with a rush and Rumple caged the first three goals. Then by a rally, Georgia overtook her rival and until the latter part of the half led them by only two points. Then by stellar work in the last half, Georgia obtained a safe lead.

Rumple. Position. Georgia.
Crawford (2).... RF....... Doubles (2)
Irvin............ LF....... Brice (3)
Mauze (2)....... C........ Askew (2)
................. RG....... King (1)
Craig (1)........ LG....... Tuller

Substitutions: Hyland for Brice. Referee, Oltman; timekeeper and scorer, Dick.

Watts 31—Rumple 28.

Rumple threw a scare into Watts on Tuesday by coming within three points of winning, the score being 31-28. The combination of Rumple’s fighting spirit and Watts’ lack of teamwork made the game exciting. The outcome of the game was in doubt until the end, for Watts had only a one-point lead through the game. As fast as Rumple took the lead, Watts would get it back with another goal.

Watts. Rumple.
Hall............. Crawford
Oltman.......... Erwin
Roberts... Mauze ... M. Erwin ... Craig of halves, Finley ... Price ... Referee, Mr. Miles; time 15 minutes.

THEY CERTAINLY DID.

George Washington Johnson was rather an obstreperous patient in an English hospital. “Don’t know why it is,” complained the exasperated nurse, “but you colored men give us more trouble than all the rest put together.” “Yassam,” the patient agreed, “dat’s jes’ what de Germans is a-sayin’ about us.”

Class of '23, are you homesick? Make up your minds, my boys, and stick. Six weeks have passed and you're here yet, And at the end of the year you'll still be, et, Cause old D. C. has her charms and her powers, To keep you here ‘bout a million hours; Don’t be yellow, boys; stick; Pass your work and never kick, Hard lessons are only a part; Make up your minds to toe the mark. When you’re homesick and blue, Know there's plenty more just like you, And when you think of that girl, and are sad, Just think what D. C. is, and be glad.
—H. W. G.

... but expressed the will of the State, and, since this will is so wisely recorded in the establishment of this work of collecting war records, it is the presumption of the Historical Commission that the people of the State are going to give the materials essential to history. The fine success already attained by the public spirit of individual donors of material shows that North Carolinians want their State fully represented in history. Almost every person in the State has a letter, a picture, or something that would be of value. Whatever he has, he should communicate information about it, or send it to R. B. House, Collector of War Records, North Carolina Historical Commission, Raleigh, N. C.

The Bank of Davidson
Knox and Barnette

Town News

Mrs. R. W. Miles has gone to her home in Richmond, Va., for a visit of ten days.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

Miss Elizabeth Grey spent last weekend at home with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Among those who attended the Galli-Curci concert in Charlotte on the 15th were the following: Mrs. A. Currie, Miss Hattie Thompson, Miss Steele, Mrs. W. J. Martin, Miss Grey, Miss Vinson, Mr. Stirewalt, Miss Blythe, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Mrs. J. M. McConnell.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

Mrs. N. T. Smith has gone to Winston-Salem to visit her sister, Mrs. N. Wright.

Davidson, N. C.

Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is solicited

FANCY GROCERIES

Adele Arbuckle has had a slight attack of scarlet fever.

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. and
J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

FRESH MEATS
A SPECIALTY

Mr. Edward Johnston has returned to his school at Reynolda, Winston-Salem, after attending the wedding of his sister.

Cunningham, the Barber

Dr. Wm. J. Martin was in Atlanta from Wednesday until Friday of last week, attending a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Laymen's Missionary Movement.

If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.

A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies

NORTH CAROLINA IN THE WORLD WAR.

The North Carolina Historical Commission is canvassing the entire State for letters, diaries, pictures, newspaper clippings, in fact, all materials of any nature that throw light on North Carolina in the World War. R. B. House, Collector of war records for the Historical Commission, is conducting this canvass by going to the sources of such official records as Red Cross Chapter Histories, Local Board reports, etc., by organizing volunteer committees to assist him in various counties, and by going himself from community to community all over the State.

These materials canvassed for, valuable as they are, will perish very rapidly unless they are stored where fire, rats, and other destroying agencies cannot get at them. Practically the only safe depository for such things is the fireproof Hall of History in Raleigh, built to preserve just such things as these. Realizing the necessity of preserving these valuable records, the last General Assembly appropriated money for the work, and directed the Historical Commission not only to collect all data possible about North Carolina in the World War, but to prepare a complete history of the State in that great event. By this act the General Assembly placed North Carolina among the most progressive States in the Union, for North Carolina was one of the first States to inaugurate a work that all other States are now taking up. The General Assembly realized that history is essential to a commonwealth's stable foundation.

The General Assembly...

Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address
W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President
Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, VA.

Fellows, I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the largest and best dry cleaning establishment in the South.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Our Drinks Are Unexcelled
Special service given to your prescriptions.

See Us For
Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist.