4 _ The DAVIDSONIAN, March 12, 1919

Listen! Alumni! Commencement is only a bit over two months off. It will be May 25-28 inclusive. The war has interfered with those reunions of recent years, but now the Kaiser has been licked and that gladsome discharge is in your pocket. Make plans to attend this commencement, and get into communication with your classmates and fellow alumni! Make this a big alumni reunion!

It has been years since you have seen many of your old classmates. You have lost trace of many of them since you graduated. But they are going to be here at commencement! You have not kept up with the changes on the campus, in all probability. Come and see them, and hear of the plans the old college has for her future! Many of the old men will be here with their tales of adventure and of how they licked the Hun. It will be great to see and hear these veterans, with their European experiences. Begin preparations now by packing one end of that old suitcase! Write The Davidsonian that you expect to be here!

* * *

The following Davidson men have registered with the American University Union in Paris: (From December 9, 1918, to January 4, 1919):

Capt. Leon Candler, ‘07, 328th Infantry.
Capt. K. L. Elliott, ‘14, 318th Field Artillery.
Lieut. S. G. Love, ‘10, Medical Corps.
Capt. H. M. Mack, ‘10, 118th Infantry.
Lieut. W. H. Sloan, ‘10, 307th Infantry.
Pvt. John M. McBride, ‘16, 74th Co., 6th Marines.

(From January 4, 1919, to February 15, 1919):

Lieut. J. F. McClerkin, ex-'20, 324th Infantry.
Lieut. Woodrow McKay, ex-'15, Aviation.
Lieut. C. R. Wilcox, ‘11, Field Artillery.

Lieut. A. S. McNeil, Jr. ex-'18, of the Aviation Service, has been discharged and has returned to his home in Orange, Texas.

Lieut. Woodrow McKay, ex-'15, has recently returned from overseas. He will soon resume his pre-war position in New York.

Lieut. Alexander Taylor, ex-'12, of Morganton, N. C., has recently received a citation for the Distinguished Service Medal, for bravery in action. Lieutenant Taylor has been in the Engineers Corps, and it was while engaged in construction work near Bellicourt, September 1918, under fire from the enemy's guns, that his party distinguished themselves for gallantry by completing the task.

Capt. John Watson Moore, ‘12, of Taylorsville, N.C., graduated from Davidson at the age of 20. While a student he was an honor roll man for a year and a half, vice-president of the Philanthropic Society, vice-president of his class, and a marshal. He also took great interest in athletics, being on the class football, basketball, and track teams. He was also Physics and Mathematics assistant, his favorite haunt being the laboratory. After leaving Davidson he became principal of Winston-Salem High School. When the warHe enlisted as a private, but in two months was promoted to second lieutenant, Co. 113 FLA, Sevier Branch, Camp Sevier, Greenville, S.C. He went to France, returned as captain to Camp Meade, Md., and is now with the 91st FLA. in Camp Custer, Mich. For some time he was stationed in New York as a gunnery instructor for officers and men of the new navy. Later he was transferred to submarine chaser service, in which he saw active duty during the winter of 1917-18. He was rated as first gunner’s mate at the time of his death. He had passed examinations for a commission but did not receive his commission because of a slight defect in his eyesight.

His funeral was held Sunday afternoon, February 16, 1919, at St. Paul’s Church, Englewood, N.J., and his body interred in the Brookside cemetery, Englewood. He was buried with military honors, services being conducted by Dr. Fleming James.

D. L. Mahood, ex-’21, is teaching in St. Paul’s Preparatory School, in Baltimore, Md. He expects to return to Davidson next fall.

Davidson friends and alumni will hear with deep regret and sorrow of the death of George French Worth, '11, in the Naval Hospital at New London, Conn., on the morning of February 14, 1919. Mr. Worth had been in the hospital from the beginning of October, 1918, suffering from successive attacks of influenza, pneumonia, and endocarditis, the last causing his death. Worth was well known to Davidson alumni. He came to Davidson from Cresskill, N.J., and graduated in the class of 1911. He is remembered here as being a favorite with his classmates. He made a good record in his studies, and is particularly remembered for his active participation in the work of the Philanthropic Literary Society. At the beginning of the war, Mr. Worth enlisted in the Navy for active duty.

Smart, Stylish Suits for Young Men
We have received by express 100 suits from the foremost makers of men’s fine clothes. The latest styles and fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

——EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR——
ED. MELLON CO.

See me if you are looking for the very best homemade cakes, pies, candy & sandwiches, cigars, cigarettes, chewing gum & cold drinks.
GEO. H. BEALL, JR.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS
Balls, mitts, stockings, bats, and gloves. Come in and look them over.
F. A. THOMAS

L. B. LONG
Heavy and Fancy Groceries
Everything good to eat — candies, fruits, and peanuts a specialty. Farm produce bought and sold.