The Davidsonian, February 26, 1919

Literary Societies Honor Washington

Speech In His Honor Given In Both Societies.

SCHEDULE FOR MARCH 1.

Philanthropic.
Affirmative: Negative:
Alexander, C. B. Howland
Humphries McLeod
McGeachy Parks

Declamations:
Robinson, C. W.
Story, S.
Robinson, J. N.
Thomas

Eumenean.
Affirmative: Negative:
Price, L. K. Scott, W. M.
McGurkin McIlwaine, R. B.
Ormond, A. C. Ratchford, S.
Patterson, W. H. Richards, J. M.

Declamations:
Sanders, C. B.
Summers, A. C.

Oration:
Turner, E. A.

Around Town

Colonel and Mrs. Meuller have secured Mrs. Wooten’s home and expect to begin keeping house soon. At present, they are boarding at Mrs. Henderson's. Mrs. Wooten has just returned from a delightful touring trip to New York with Mrs. Wood Johnson. She will probably make her home with her daughter in Mooresville for the spring.

Mrs. Wilson McConnell and her son, Courtney, are waiting to meet Dr. MacConnell in New York any day. They are now visiting at her father’s in Baltimore. Upon Dr. MacConnell’s arrival, they plan to make a trip to San Francisco, where he will have a little rest before again taking up his work at Davidson. Dr. Moore MacConnell and his youngest son spent the weekend at the old homeplace, McConnellsville, S. C.

Dr. W. W. Lingle and his wife were expected on the Hill all last week.

The meeting of the Phi Society last Saturday night proved to be the most interesting held this term. The debate, the subject of which was: “Resolved, That all discharged soldiers and sailors should be given six months’ extra pay,” was full of pep and showed evidences of thoughtful preparation. The affirmative was represented by McCain, Banner, and Shaw. The negative by Howie, Stane, and Roberts. The decision committee decided two to one in favor of the affirmative.

The question for extemporaneous debate was: “Resolved, That the U. S. troops should be withdrawn from Russia.” This debate was lively and full of interest throughout. Foscue and W. F. Hall successfully represented the affirmative, while W. H. Wilson and Calhoun defended the negative. Declamations were given by Foster, H. R. Poole, Lowrance, and D. G. Cashion.

Following the regular program, the society proceeded into the election of officers for the spring term. The following were elected: W. M. Currie, President; D. W. Roberts, Vice-President; A. L. Currie, Secretary; E. G. Lilly, First Critic; D. M. Chalmers, Second Critic; C. G. Long, First Supervisor; M. A. Tremain, Second Supervisor.

Mrs. W. R. Grey entertained Mrs. Z. V. Burlington, of Mooresville, last Thursday. Miss Dorothy Finlayson, now at Winthrop College, was at home for the weekend with her uncle, Mr. L. L. Jackson. Miss Eloise Martin was treated for tonsillitis at the Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte, last week, necessitating her absence from Queens College. She is now at home for a week's rest and recuperation.

Malcolm Rumple is expected home from overseas with the First Battalion French Artillery. It is rumored that the S. S. Virginia, on which he was to return, has landed safely at Newport News. Conrad Shelton returned to Camp Lee, Friday, after almost a week's visit with his parents and friends here. His shoulder was very seriously shattered during the fighting in Argonne Forest. It is feared that he will have to remain in camp eight months or a year yet in order that it may be properly treated.

Captain Slaymaker, who addressed the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening, has been the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. His home is in Alexandria, Va. He is now Secretary of the Laymen’s Missionary Movement.

Eumenean.

Although the declamations and the oration in the Eumenean Society last Saturday night were interesting, the debate as a whole lacked preparation and “pep.” This was largely due to the fact that there had been little study and thought on the question. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That all discharged soldiers and sailors should receive six months extra pay.” The affirmative side was upheld by D. M. Gaston, T. M. Lowry, R. A. McPheeters, and J. A. Long. The negative side was defended by F. E. Manning, T. S. Martin, S. F. Montgomery, and P. H. McAlpine. The affirmative side advanced the following arguments: First, that the resolution in question is just because it is practical and economical; second, that it is patriotic. J. W. Long’s debate was especially noticeable on account of his jokes and the manner of impressing his points on the audience by reiteration. The negative side opposed the plan for the following reasons: First, because the resolution is not the best plan, for (1) it induces loafing.

Miss Essie Jetton, one of the most popular graded school teachers, is very ill with pneumonia at her home near town. Mrs. Miles is teaching her class until a substitute can be found. The Ladies’ Missionary Society observed lastWeek as a week of prayer for missions, schools, and colleges. Our own college received special attention, as the whole student body is praying for the success of the evangelistic campaign. There is no other country which has done this. The first declamation was “Rowland’s Appeal to President Wilson,” by Marion McGill. Then J. C. B. McLaughlin gave “Death of LaFayette.” Probably the best feature of the evening was an oration by W. B. Sullivan on “Our National Hero—Washington.” This oration was particularly appropriate, as it was delivered on Washington's birthday.

The leaders were Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Hamilton, and Miss Margaret Douglas. Miss Douglas is on furlough from her educational mission work in Brazil, which was the subject of her enthusiastic lecture. Mr. and Mrs. Cranford were suddenly called away to Albemarle by the sudden death of their grandchild. Miss Price and Miss Wood left Friday for a week's visit with their relative, Mrs. Pennington, of Statesville. The old campus was cheered by the short visit of Misses Bessie Durham, Catherine Gilmer, and Rogers Gibbon from Charlotte last Friday afternoon. Miss Gordon Baskerville is visiting in Barnwell Springs. Miss Winifred Potts, of Queens, spent the weekend with her mother, Mrs. L. Potts.

Dr. Harold D. Claybery accompanied a hiking group to the famous Bee Rock Sunday afternoon. Friends of Miss Katharine Worth, of Converse College, will be proud to learn of the distinction shown her by the publication of one of her poems on the first page of a volume of best poems by college students in America. Another of Miss Worth’s poems received similar distinction last year.

CAMPUS DOPE

Many boys have new raincoats which they have purchased for use at the upcoming Junior Speaking. It is taken for granted that we will have a flood as usual. Several of the Juniors have broken all precedents and intend to speak on subjects which they know a little about. However, the majority of the class of '20 are to speak on things which are entirely unfamiliar (to themselves and everyone else). Seers and prophets are numerous. The young orators are having various troubles. One Junior remarked that it looked as if a certain prominent man would “die on him” and that his speech would have to be rewritten. Red Smith speaks on “From Isolation to Leadership.” It is not known whether he is referring to himself or not. Cathey touches a hopeful note when he tells how he endured Davidson for twenty years. Cheer up, Fresh. Frank Key, who has chosen “Materialism vs. Spiritualism,” is going around trying to find out what Spiritualism is. Spence announces that he will change his subject but says he does not know what he will change to. Don’t pass judgment till you hear the speeches. They may not be as bad as expected.

MINISTERIAL BAND PLANS ACTIVE WORK

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting last Friday evening at 6:45. The meeting was carried on in a rather informal but interesting way. A forceful talk was made by the president, urging all the members to begin real, active work in helping to make the revival one of the most successful ever held on the campus. Following this appeal, several others volunteered and gave short speeches. The spirit of the members showed that they were taking keen interest in the work they expected to do in this campaign Dr. Myers is to conduct. Though the attendance was not as good as might have been expected, it was perhaps due to forgetfulness as to the time on the part of those absent. After this, however, the bell will ring at the proper time to remind them, and a better attendance is hoped for.

GOLF CLUB HAS ELECTED OFFICERS

On Monday, February 7, the Golf Club held a meeting for the purpose of electing officers. The following were chosen: President, Dr. H. L. Arbuckle; Vice-President, Prof. A. Currie; Secretary, H. E. White; Treasurer, Prof. W. W. Wood. The tournament committee to be appointed by the president is composed of Prof. W. W. Wood, H. E. White, and B. Breitenhirt. After the election of officers, methods of stimulating interest in the game this spring were discussed. A tournament for the spring was decided on, and the rate of membership was reduced for those entering the rest of the term.

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South's Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18, 20, and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. F. N. BOOKER, Agent.

THINK IT OVER BOYS

You still have time to get one of those “nifty, catch-your-eye” suits, tailored to fit absolutely by the Storrs-Schaefer Company before speaking. Our samples are now on display at NO. 13 CHAMBERS. Satisfaction or No Deal.

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES