The DAVIDSONIAN, March 12, 1919

BASEBALL TEAM, 1918. PHI SOCIETY.

Program for March 15:
Debate. Affirmative: Story, J. R. Poteat, J. A. Spence, T. H. Calhoun, L. G.
Declamations and Orations. Sample, G. D. Alexander, T. R.
Extemporaneous Debate. Affirmative: Negative: Dunlap. W. W. Hamilton, H.C.
Negative:

FRESHMAN LECTURES STARTED LAST WEEK

The lectures for the Freshman class were started last Wednesday morning. J. H. Miller, president of the student body, spoke to the Freshman class on the Constitution of the Student Body, on Self Government and its Advantages, and on the Honor System. He mentioned all the traditions of the college that do so much to make Davidson what it is: tipping the hat to members of the faculty, speaking to everyone you meet, and the respect due to the upper classmen. He added that the quiet, unassuming Freshman gains the respect of the upper classmen and has nothing to gain by self-assertion.

Coach Fetzer, who was the main speaker, had for his subject, "Physical Exercise and Athletics." He emphasized the importance of some kind of exercise daily, if nothing more than deep breathing and a couple of minutes of setting-up exercises in the morning. In connection with this, he brought up the different forms of athletics which help to develop the man physically. These things should not, however, be placed above the regular studies, but should go along with them. Every man should have a schedule with a regular time for play and study and should let nothing interfere with his study period. He should also attend all classes and get the most possible out of each one.

Coach Fetzer also made a few remarks about some Davidson customs. Among these, he mentioned the custom of tipping hats to professors, the close relationship that should exist between the professors and students, and customs dealing with the different classes. Without some class distinctions, there would be very little college spirit or "pep." Needless to say, everyone present was interested in and benefited by Coach’s talk.

He flunked in German,
He flunked in Chem,
They heard him softly hiss;
"I'd like to find the man who said
That ignorance is bliss."—Ex.

PARABLE OF FRESH AND SOPH.

And it came to pass in those days that there was in the land of North Carolina an institution of learning, to wit Davidson College, honored greatly upon the face of the land. And there dwelt in the city of Davidson, in the said school of learning, as thou comest by the old gym, two men. And the name of the one was Soph and the name of the other was Fresh. Now Soph was a wise man, skilled and cunning in all the ways of the campus, howbeit wise in his own conceits; and Fresh was a timid man, being sorely oppressed by the bondage which Soph did inflict upon him; for in those days Fresh must needs do homage to Soph and all their service, wherein they were made to serve, was with rigor. And Soph was grieved because of Fresh.

Now there arose a new Soph, which was compassionate of heart and he hearkened unto the cries of Fresh and removed the burdens which had been placed upon him. And Fresh rejoiced with mighty shoutings and with much joy. Now it came to pass in the process of time that Fresh grew large of head, and hard of heart, and forgot the days of his bondage, when he did serve Soph with rigor. And Fresh hardened his heart to wisdom and turned from the paths of discretion, puffed up and said to himself:

"WHO'S WHO" ON OUR SERVICE FLAG

Major McConnell.

Maj. J. W. McConnell, ‘02, was born at McConnellsville, S.C., in 1878. In 1898 he entered Davidson College, from which he received the B.S. degree in 1902, also winning the Debater’s medal and the Declaimer’s medal. In 1905 he received the M.A. degree from Davidson.

Major McConnell began his study of medicine at the North Carolina Medical College, Davidson, N.C., and completed his course at the University of Maryland in 1907, receiving the M.D. degree. In 1907-1908 he was house surgeon at Presbyterian Eye and Ear Hospital, Baltimore, Md. He then studied at Summer School, Columbia University, New York City. In the fall of 1908 Dr. McConnell entered upon his duties as Professor of Biology and Physical Training at Davidson, where he remained until the spring of 1917. Shortly after war was declared he enlisted in the MedicalCorps of the U.S. Army with rank of captain. From this, he was promoted to major.

VOLUNTEERS EXPECT LARGE DELEGATION

The date of the annual conference of the Student Volunteers in the North Carolina Union is almost here, and all of us who expect to go are looking forward with great hopes for the best conference ever held in the union, at Guilford this year. A delegation of about 20 or 25 is expected from Davidson. The delegation has planned to leave Friday morning on the 6:53 train, as the conference is to commence on Friday afternoon. The conference ends Sunday. The delegation expects to return on the 6:28 train Monday.

GOLF TOURNAMENT THE FIRST WEEK OF APRIL

On account of the rain this past week, nothing has been accomplished by the golf players. For the next two weeks, weather permitting, the men expecting to enter the tournament will play off their scores to determine their handicaps. The tournament is to be held April 1 to 15. It is hoped that the tournament this year will be the best that has ever been held here. The men are trying to make it so.

And he became proud and went to the city and bought a fall derby. So he arose and went to the city unto the house of a pawnbroker and bought a derby for six bits. And he returned unto the campus of Davidson and strode up the way in a naughty and proud manner, placing the derby on the east side of his head so that it covered his right ear. Now Soph had become troubled of mind at the peculiar and naughty bearing of Fresh. And on this day, it came to pass that Soph met the army of the 'Vickets and was sorely stricken so that he was much distressed of mind. And he arose and departed from the Hall of Shearer and lifted up his eyes and beheld Fresh and the derby drew near. And Soph’s anger waxed hot within him. And he girded up his loins and descended upon Fresh with a fierce and mighty shout, for he repented of the kindness which he had done unto Fresh, in that he had removed his bondage. And in that day did Soph inflict Fresh with a mighty paddling, so that he was reduced to his former state of bondage. Selah.

STATISTICS OF VALUE

Of the 1,094 women who fainted last year, 1,091 fell into the arms of men, two fell on the floor, and the other one into a kitchen sink. —Ex.

Man wants but little here below. He's not hard to please, But woman (bless her little heart) Wants everything she sees. —Ex.

A green little upstart, in a green little way, Some chemicals mixed just for fun one day, Now the green little grasses tenderly wave Over the green little upstart’s green little grave. —Ex.

Habit is a cable of which we weave a strand each day, and by and by it becomes so strong nothing can break it. —Mann.

What Really Mattered

He was a very small boy. Paddy was his dog, and Paddy was nearer to his heart than anything on earth. When Paddy met swift and hideous death on the turnpike road, the boy's mother trembled to break the news. But it had to be, and when he came home from school she told him simply: “Paddy has been run over and killed.” He took it very quietly. All day it was the same. But five minutes after he had gone to bed, there echoed through the house a shrill and sudden lamentation. His mother rushed upstairs with solicitude and pity. “Nurse says,” he sobbed, “that Paddy has been run over and killed.” “But, dear, I told you that at dinner, and you didn’t seem to be troubled at all.” “No; but—but I didn’t know you said Paddy. I—I thought you said daddy!” —Montreal Journal of Commerce.

Camouflage

“Are you really looking for an honest man?” asked the suspicious citizen. “Sssh!” replied Diogenes. “Confidentially, I am merely taking this method of letting my neighbors know what I think of them.” —Minneapolis Tribune.

DON’T FORGET to have that suit DRY CLEANED by The Ben-Vonde Co. The South’s Largest Exclusive DYERS & CLEANERS 18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. K. N. BOOKER, Agt.

Latest Dope From Your Nation representative. Your representative is judged by his appearance. His appearance is judged from his clothes. Peace Conference is judged by its Get that Storrs-Schaefer Look—neat and nifty. GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES No. 13 CHAMBERS