O. P. Hart opines that the December issue of the Davidson College Magazine will be out about December first.

Major de Rohan, U. S. A., P. M. G. and T., at P. C. accompanied the football squad to Davidson.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
speaker at the “Y”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

Devotional News
VESPER SERVICE AT “Y” MUCH ENJOYED BY ALL
Usual Program Suspended Because of Visitors Here for Senior Speaking.

The usual program of having a service was changed Sunday evening and a vesper service held instead, as it was thought this would be of more interest to the visitors on the hill for Senior Speaking. Mr. Miles presided and Oltman led the singing. “I Love to Tell the Story,” “More About Jesus,” the “Battle Hymn of the Republic,” and “He Leadeth Me” were sung heartily. Dr. Arbuckle offered a helpful prayer; S. P. Freeman, and Buie, of the college orchestra, pleased all with a cornet duet. Mr. Miles invited the visitors to attend the Sunday evening service of the association whenever in Davidson.

BIBLE CLASSES WONDERFUL ASSET TO CAMPUS LIFE
Practical Christianity, the importance of Christ’s teaching in man’s social relations with his fellowmen, has been the topic studied by the Bible classes this fall. Every man who has carefully studied this subject has strengthened his character by learning how to adapt Christianity to the problems of everyday life. This branch of the Y. M. C. A. program has the special advantage of being both systematic and personal. Each active member has had access to a copy of “The Social Principles of Jesus,” which has been the basis of discussion. As a rule, every fellow has felt free to express himself on the important issues. The attendance has been good, as will be seen by the records below:

No. Members. Av. Present. Av. Pct.
Watts .......... 4 .......... 84
Louisiana ...... 19 ........ 15 ........ 79
Rumple ........ 68 ........ 53 ........ 76
Chambers .... 125 ........ 87 ........ 69
Georgia ........ 56 ........ 32 ........ 56
Total .......... 319 ........ 229 ........ 72

SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
The total attendance of the Sunday Schools last Sunday was better than the previous one, although Caldwell and Brawley’s showed a slight decrease. Cowans had no meeting at all. The attendance was as follows:

Teachers. Total.
Caldwell ........ 7 ........ 71
Brawley’s ...... 4 ........ 39
Oak Grove ..... 9 ........ 39
Mill ............... 3 ........ 70
Shearer Chapel 8 ........ 66
Cornelius ........ 5 ........ 66
Total ............ 36 ...... 331

Million Dollar Campaign Running Smoothly
The Synod of North Carolina is raising a million dollars for the educational institutions that it supports. Davidson College gets $300,000; Flora Macdonald, Springs, gets $200,000; Peace Institute at Raleigh, gets $125,000; Union Seminary at Richmond, gets $70,000; Mitchell College at Statesville, gets $25,000; Queens College at Charlotte, gets $100,000, and the remaining $80,000 will be divided among five preparatory schools in which the Synod is interested. The campaign started July 1, and at the last report about half of the amount had been raised. The head of the campaign, Dr. M. E. Melvin, and the chief field worker, Mr. W. M. Hunter, '93, are confident that the whole amount will be raised by the time limit, the first of March, 1920. One generous member of the Synod has already given $100,000 on condition that the total amount be raised. The workers have been canvassing the small towns and country churches first and are leaving the large towns till winter.

When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

GET AN EARLY START FOR BLUE RIDGE—INFORMATION GIVEN FREE AT “Y” NIGHT.
Blue Ridge will be the subject for discussion before the “Y” next Sunday evening. Last year Davidson sent about 13 men. Blue Ridge is the place where our annual student conference is held. If you know about Blue Ridge, come next Sunday; if you do not know, come and learn about it. Davidson is going to have the largest delegation yet next summer.

MOVIES GALORE.
Jack Pickford and Marguerite Clark Furnish Splendid Entertainment.
The college has been unusually fortunate.This week, two movies have been shown instead of one. Thursday night, the Civic League presented Jack Pickford and Louise Huff in “Seventeen.” The picture was a good one and unusually well-acted, especially regarding that jewel of a “little sister” who always managed to be a third party whenever anything was going on. As the picture principally concerned itself with the tragic love affairs of a 17-year-old boy, it was peculiarly suited to a college audience and repeatedly brought down the house in howling applause. The only regret is that it did not follow Booth Tarkington’s book a bit more closely. This picture was followed on Friday night by the regular “Y” picture with Marguerite Clark starring in “The Goose Girl.” The picture was a baffling maze of court intrigue and conflicting love affairs. Perhaps the most striking feature was the freedom and utter impartiality with which one of the minor characters bestowed right and left-hand salutes. The jovial King Philip with his expert swordsman. And then, best of all, was not Marguerite Clark there? And who can describe anything about Marguerite Clark? It was certainly, as all agree, a fine picture. It is rare indeed that one finds two such excellent pictures coming together.

Golf Club Perfects Organization Course Being Greatly Improved

The Golf Club held a very peppy meeting last Monday morning after chapel. Plans were made for the coming season and are such as to ensure a good course as well as a good club to all followers of the sport. Dr. Arbuckle, chairman of the committee, addressed the members in regard to lost balls and appointed W. B. Dunlap to have charge of this matter. R. T. Allison was appointed student treasurer and will have charge of collecting all dues from student members. A greens committee consisting of T. W. Hawkins, C. W. Gilchrist, and H. W. White was appointed. Through the generosity of one of the alumni in Atlanta, the Golf Club has been donated a neat sum of money to put the course in good condition. The college has consented to give $100 to have the road changed over the course. Professor Woods has agreed to survey this new road free of charge. The rules of the course will be posted on the door of the course house for the benefit of the members who are unfamiliar with them. Any students who are interested and who would like to enjoy the privileges of the club should see Dr. Arbuckle at once.

Everett Booe, '12, for four years a star on Davidson’s football team, and who later coached athletics at Presbyterian College of South Carolina, refereed the P.C.-Davidson game last Friday. Jack Peyton was headlinesman. Among the alumni who were present were Flinn, John Payne, Jim Carson, E. A. Turner, T. H. Belk, and Alex Fairley.

SUNDAY

DAVIDSON BOYS

I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.

Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Something New in Davidson

FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS.

GRADUATE

One of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose, and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

The Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
I. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS

DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.

Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps, and Fixtures.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.

WRITES INSURANCE

He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He wants your business. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

Athletic Sport is the royal road to good health. We furnish every essential for Football, Soccer, Basketball, Hockey, Skating, and the Gym.

Agents Wanted where we are not Represented.

Athletic Outfitters.
26 East 42nd St.
New York City

Write for our new catalog.