4. w ny: SiN A Si Vol. VI.

Declamation “Reps” Awarded Last Monday
Cummings, White, and Mitchell, Eu. Currie, Long and Lowrance, Phi.

The preliminaries of the Freshman-Sophomore Declamation contest were held in the respective societies on last Monday night. The speeches were
well prepared and there is much material for future debaters in these two classes. Those entering from the Mumenean Society
were: J. C. McCaskill, Wilson's Flag Day Address; J. C. Bailey, Life of Roosevelt; J. P. Price, Cataline’s Defiance; McD.
Richards, Jerdos’ Memorial Address; W. W. Moore, Spartacus’ Address to the Gladiators; W. P. Cummings, Japanese School Boy in America;
R. R. Mellwaine, “If”—by Kipling; F. M. Mitchell, Epps Defiance; H. W. White, Hamlet's Defence of His Murder. White, Cummings,
and Mitchell were chosen as winners, with Bailey as alternate.

Those entering from the Philanthropic Society were: A. L. Currie, The Death of Lafayette; Sam Howie, The Responsibilities of War;
H. R. Poole, Democracy; J. H. McKeithen, America's Debt to Scotland; R. H. Poole, Where is Knocking at the Gate;
C. N. Morrison, World Peace and Safety; I. H. Wilson, Reunited Country; J. F. Clark, Centralization in the United States;
C. G. Long, The Unknown Speaker; J. C. Wool, Spartacus to the Gladiators; G. N. Neel, Why We Fought Germany;
G. M. Howland, The Unknown Speaker; D. W. Lowrance, Lest We Forget; F. L. Brown, A Soldier Boy's Ideals. Currie,
Long, and Lowrance were chosen as winners, with R. H. Poole as alternate.

Juniors Get Worried Speaking Draws Nigh
March 7-9 are the Eventful Days Chosen by Class.

From all information that is obtainable, prospects point to Junior Speaking as the greatest event since the Antebellum days. The
committee reports that everything is turning out as was expected and everything is coming along smoothly. The program has been
arranged and the invitations have been ordered. The Glee Club will give a concert and arrangements for a basketball game
have been made. The dates for Junior Speaking are the 7th, 8th, and 9th of March. It is quite a
common occurrence to find a fellow in his room talking to himself or wading around in a pile of notes
and clippings. Junior Speaking is three weeks off. Boys, is your girl coming?

The S. A. T. C. broke into the Senior Speaking last fall and the event was called off. Nevertheless, no
one felt slighted and began at once to look forward to Junior Speaking. Great things are expected from the Juniors.

Dr. McConnell Speaks On “League of Christ”
Speaker Compares the League of Nations With Christian Church.

Those of the students who braved the bad weather to go to the “Y” vesper service last Sunday were well
rewarded by Dr. J. M. McConnell’s splendid talk on the subject—"Christian Self-Determination and the League of Christ." He showed that
the condition of Christians is in many ways analogous to that of the nations of the world today. Dr. McConnell
defined national self-determination as the right of a nation to work out its own national life. He cited Armenia and
Poland as examples of nations which are attempting to get this right. So Christian self-determination is the opportunity for a
man to bring the most possible good out of his life. As there is no chance for a nation to
gain its freedom unless it first recognizes that it is oppressed, so a man cannot be saved from sin unless
he first recognizes that he is a sinner and that Christ alone can save him from the power of sin.
Christians, as well as nations, must recognize that all men have the same right to be free. The Christian people
of the world can no more accomplish anything without getting together in the League of Christ than there can be
any freedom among the nations without some law as a guide.

The present Peace Conference proposes to establish a League of Nations which shall give the right of self-determination to all
nations. No one knows just what the ideals of this league will be. Mr. Frank Simonds says that American idealism
and the old-time selfish diplomacy are struggling for the mastery in this conference. The ideals of the League of Christ
are known. Dr. McConnell spoke of St. Paul as probably the greatest example of what the League of Christ can
do for a man. He then mentioned several verses of Paul's Epistle to the Philippians as giving the ideals of
this league. The one verse, he said, which came nearest to summing up these principles was Phil. 4:8: “Finally, brethren,
whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of
good report, think on these things.”

The report of the meeting the preceding...The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The week was unintentionally omitted last week. Following a vocal solo by B. F. Shields and a violin solo by
D. M. Gaston, Dr. Arbuckle spoke upon the subject “Keeping the Faith.” He made a very impressive speech which will
long be remembered by all present. Mr. Miles was preaching in Salisbury, so the meeting was presided over by the
president of the Y. M. C. A. faculty. It was even deemed wise to put ventilators over the hall, thereby
ensuring safety to its visitors. Dr. W. J. Martin celebrated his fifty-first birthday last Monday. Many happy returns of the
day, Doctor!

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1919. No. 15

Basketball Quint Leaves On Ten Day Trip. Strong Teams Encountered Eight Wildcat Warriors Cross the Virginia Line Prepared for Battle.

The Varsity team left Wednesday on its invasion of Virginia and western North Carolina. This trip will be one of
the hardest undertaken in many years. In Virginia, the best college teams in the state will be encountered. The team
will have the benefit of an over-Sunday rest and should be in good shape for this game. These include V.
P. I., M. I., Washington & Lee, and Roanoke College. The dope all points out that the hardest games will
be with V. M. I. and Washington & Lee. The former has beaten V. P. I. 22-18. Washington & Lee
won from V. P. I. by 45-15. Another hard team to be encountered is V. P. I. This team won
from C. C. 73-6, while Washington & Lee put down Roanoke 30-48. Roanoke College will be played on Monday.

Beginning Tuesday, the team will meet the following North Carolina teams in order: Guilford, Trinity, and Elon. The first two
games will undoubtedly call for the best Wildcat fight. Davidson will be out for revenge in the game with Trinity,
to wipe out the defeat suffered at the hands of the Methodists last year, when the Red and Black were
beaten by two points. Guilford bowed down to Wake Forest, to a defeat by over 20 points, who in turn
were whipped by Trinity 41-20. Elon may perhaps be a trifle easier as Washington & Lee snowed them under 50-0.
Later on in the season, several games will be played on the local floor. A game for Junior Speaking is
being arranged. The University of N.C. will be met, and this will be a hard game, as the five from
Chapel Hill will be out to even up things after the defeat given them by Davidson in football.

The following men were selected by coaches and captain to represent Davidson on the trip: L. C. McAskill, Davenport, G.
R. Harrington, B. B. Schenck, S. O. Brice, R. E. Cunningham, P. R. Alexander, and D. M. Chalmers.

Camp Greene Defeated In Clean B. B. Game Entire Davidson Squad Gets a Try-Out In First Game.

In a rather one-sided game last Saturday night, the Davidson basketball squad defeated the Base Hospital team from Camp Greene
to the tune of 54 to 14. The soldiers suffered from lack of teamwork and were lost on the large
Davidson court. The game, however, was a clean one and was enjoyed by all. Every man on the basketball squad
was given a chance to play. Harrington and Alexander did some pretty basket tossing. Brice, at guard, also played a
good game.

Right forward: Davenport (6), Alexander (10), Ormand, A. P. (4)—Hoffman (2). Left forward: Harrington (10), Hall (6), Ormand, A. C.—Harrold
(6). Center: McCaskill (6), Cunningham (4), Doubles—North (2). Right guard: Schenck, Craig—Terra (2). Left guard: Brice (6), Chalmers, McAlister (2)—Longman
(1). Total: Davidson 54, Camp Greene 14. Referee, Lieut. Booe; Timekeeper, Coach Fetzer; Scorekeeper, Love; Time of halves, 20-20.

STATISTICS COLLEGE 1918-19.

Summary: Post Graduates, 2; Seniors, 31; Juniors, 29; Sophomores, 49; Freshmen, 125; Electives, 53. Total, 289. Total SCALE. CL (Co.
De not counted), 223. Grand total, 517. Counted twice, 145. Net total, 372. Applications for Degrees: M. A., 2; A.
B., 19; B. S., 120. Representation: Alabama, 12; Arkansas, 3; Florida, 3; Georgia, 27; Kentucky, 4; Louisiana, 6; Mississippi, 0;
North Carolina, 145; Oklahoma, 0; South Carolina, 46; Tennessee, 16; Texas, 0; Virginia, 10; West Virginia, 3; China, 2; Japan,
2; Persia, 1.

NEVER MORE.

Students’ Army Training Corps, You sure made us awful sore, Clumsy, tiresome, hopeless bore, We were shot—but shed no gore—
Studied little, pokered more, Raked the campus, scrubbed the floor, Played the peeler, watched a store, Soaked up goulash, learned
to snore, Had experiences galore Enough to make an angel roar. Now, imposter, all is o’er; Fare you well—please shut
the door— Students’ Army Training Corps.

—The Daily Iowan.
