The DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1919

Overseas Experiences Told By Lamp Light
“Bob” Miles Tells of American “Y” in France.

Sunday night, even though there were no lights, the regular Y. M. C. A. service was held as usual. Mr.
Miles gave a very interesting talk in regard to his overseas service with the “Y.” The fact that there were
no lights gave a very fitting setting to Mr. Miles’ address, as he said his meetings overseas were held by
candlelight. From the time Mr. Miles left New York for overseas duty, he was actively engaged in the “Y” service
for the fellows “over there.” He was attached to the 9th Machine Gun Battalion of the 2nd Division. Some very
vivid incidents were related by Mr. Miles showing the intense interest the fellows, though they were regular army men, had
in the “Y.” The “Y” huts served as a place of recreation during the week and a place of worship
on Sunday. For a while, Mr. Miles was stationed at a detraining station just back from the Verdun front. Here
he served hot chocolate to the boys who were starting on their hike to the front. Though these fellows were,
to use a slang expression, a little “hard” at times, deep down in their hearts they were Christians.

NEW MEMBERS INITIATED IN OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

At the meeting of the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity on last Wednesday night, the following new members were initiated: Coach
Wm. McK. Fetzer, R. R. Clarke, I. A. Woods, and J. J. Love. Following the initiation, a “feed” was held.
Only Seniors and members of the faculty are admitted to membership in this organization. Its purpose is to bring closer
together the leaders in the various activities on the campus, and it is hoped that much good will be accomplished
this spring. The Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa was established in the spring of 1917. Other chapters of the
Fraternity are located at Washington and Lee University, Johns Hopkins University, and Pittsburgh University. The present membership of the local
chapter is as follows: Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, S. M. Gilbert, J.
H. Miller, Jr., E. G. Lilly, Coach W. McK. Fetzer, R. R. Clarke, E. A. Woods, and J. J. Love.

COLLEGE ASSISTANTS HAVE BEEN SELECTED

The following monitors and assistants have been appointed for the spring term:
Monitors:
Senior Class—R. C. Garth.
Junior Class—A. L. Foscue.
Sophomore Class—C. N. Morrison.
Freshmen Class—F. N. Booker and T. H. Spence.

Library Assistants—J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. E. Rogers, R. W. Holmes, and G. D. Sample.
Physics—L. G. Calhoun, O. P. Hart, E. A. Turner, and E. G. Lilly.
Chemistry—W. T. Dunlap, C. B. Robson, and A. L. Foscue.
Bible—E. A. Woods, S. T. McCloy.
English—C. Howell.
Biology—A. R. Craig, C. Howell, E. A. Woods, G. D. Sample.
Mathematics—E. Flynn, A. L. Foscue.
Absence Committee—C. B. Robson, D. M. Chalmers.

Football Men to Get Handsome Sweaters
Freshmen Abide By the Old Custom.

All the football men agree with Pitts Douglas when he said, “I'm glad I’m going to get a sweater, but
I wish they’d come before all the cold weather is over.” Well, the sweaters have been ordered and ought to
be here in a few days. They would have been ordered a good bit sooner if it hadn't been that
so many of the Freshmen had not been “financially embarrassed.” As it is, there are still about thirty who are
holding their dollar tight in their pocket. The sweaters will be black, V-neck style, with a big red D on
the front of them. They are going to be of good quality, so the football men will be amply rewarded
for waiting on them.

ON THE CAMPUS

New Students.
The following students have registered during the past week:
Dew, M. C., '22, 24 R.
Ratchford, E. E., '20, 65 C.
Patterson, J. H., '19, 28 Ga.
Wilson, C. H., '19, 66 Ch.
Maddrey, J. T., ex-'19.

G. W. Black, '21, was called home on account of illness in his family last Friday.

The tennis season, although a little out of place, is upon us. The woefully small number of decent courts is
again noticeable.

Crack Brown, '21, spent the weekend at his home in Cleveland.

Paul Brown, ex-'21, was on the hill last week for a short visit.

From the shots on the campus last Friday night, a visitor might have assumed that the local association of the
Bolsheviki was in session.

Mr. Miles made a trip to Westminster School at Rutherfordton on Tuesday of last week to help start off the
Y. M. C. A. work there.

The Rumpleites are progressing well with their scheme for cutting up the campus. Their path from their abode to the
Phi hall becomes plainer every day.

N. Y. Pharr, '19, broke all precedents and did not spend Sunday in Charlotte.

Davidson was about a year late in observing lightless nights. It was done on last Saturday, however, under universal protest.

Among those present at the basketball game last Friday evening were Misses Maude Dawson, Jean Bryan, and Mildred Smith, guests
of the Bachelors.

Shearer Hall has successfully recovered from the operation of “reroofing.” Its appearance has changed considerably. Besides its new red roof,
it has three ventilators like those on Georgia. Work on Shearer Hall has been going on for some time, and
Dr. Martin...is probably much relieved that the hammering on the roof during chapel has stopped.

SENIOR CLASS MEETING.
At a meeting of the Senior class Monday morning the following men were elected to fill vacancies on the student
council: R. R. Clarke and C. B. Robson; class poet, E. G. Lilly. Questions of a class gift and Senior
privileges were discussed.

SOPHOMORES CHAMPS. DEFEAT FAST SENIORS
(Continued from page 1)
Seniors struck their old-time stride and doubled the score on the promising Fresh. The work of Alexander and Cunningham for
the Seniors and of Ormond for the Sophs was the outstanding feature of the game. Final score: Seniors, 32; Freshmen,
16.

Seniors: Fresh:
Davenport (c) (8) Ormand, A. C. (10)
Alexander (10) Denny (2)
Forwards
Cunningham (10) Center
Craig (2) Doubles (4)
Woods (2) Price (c)
Substitutes: Freeman for Doubles; time of halves, 20 and 15 minutes; timekeeper, Fetzer; referees, Chalmers and Harrington; scorers, Sutton and
McCrary.

Soph-Fresh Game.
In one of the most exciting games of the series on Thursday night the Sophs defeated the Fresh with a
close score of 19-17. For the Sophs Harrington and Schenck showed up well, while Denny and Doubles were the mainstays
of the Fresh team. Until this game, the Freshmen had high hopes of winning the championship, but all their hopes
were shattered when the final whistle blew. However, they put up a splendid fight as the score shows. One of
the prettiest shots of the game was made by Denny of the Fresh team during the second half when he
tossed the ball into the basket from the middle of the floor.

Sophs: Fresh:
Ormand, A. P. Ormand, A. C.
Harrington (c) Denny
Forwards
Finley Cornelson
Center
Schenck Price (c)
Brice Doubles
Guards
Substitutes: Miley for Finley; referee, Miles; timekeeper, Fetzer; time of halves, 20 and 15 minutes.

DIRECTORY DEFECTS.
Bama, N. P., to Baba, N. P.
Brittenhirt, B. S., to Britenhirt, B. B.
Clark, R. R., to Clarke, R. R.
Douglas, D. P., '22, to Douglas, D. P., '20.
Grill, D. K., to Grille, D. K.
Massey, H. H., from 14 W. to 13 W.
Matthews, C. T., to Matthews, C. J.
McAllister, L. M., to McAllister, L. L.
McCaskill, C. M., from '22 to '21.
McCorkle, W. W., from 14 Ch. to 43 Ch.
McLaughlin, G. C. B., to McLaughlin, J. C. B.
McClees, J. L., to McLees, J. L.
Nesbit, W. P., '22, to '21.
Peters, R. B., Jr., from 11 W. to 9

Senior-Junior Game.
Seniors won from the Juniors in a closely contested game on Friday night. The final score was 23-19. At the
end of the first period the score stood 6-6. In the second half Hall's fine shooting won the game for
the fourth-year men. Askew starred for the Junior team, making over half of the total score for this team. This
victory gave the Seniors an opportunity to try out in the finals on Saturday night.

Seniors: Juniors:
Alexander Askew (10)
Hall (10) Craig, R. R. (2)
Forwards
Cunningham (8) Caldwell
Center
Woods (2) McAllister
Craig, A. (2) Chalmers (c) (4)
Guards
Foul goals, Craig, A. R., 3; substitutions: Cunningham for Davenport; referee, Miles; timekeeper, Fetzer; time of halves, 20 and 15
minutes.

Senior-Soph Game.
In the fastest and best game of the series the Sophs won the championship from the Seniors by the close
score of 22-20. During the first half the odds were in favor of the Seniors, but in the second period
the Sophs continued piling up goals until they had tied the score 20-20 when the whistle blew. Five minutes extra
were given to play off the tie, and not until three minutes of this time was up could either side
gain the necessary goal. Finally Ormand placed a field goal and the game was won. Cunningham and Woods starred for
the losing team.

Seniors: Sophs:
Davenport (c) Ormond
Hall Harrington (c)
Forwards
Cunningham Center
Finley

Phillips, J. W., from 83 Ch. to 82 Ch.
Reed, W. K., to Reid, W. K.
Jones, J. Mc., from 82 Ch. to 83 Ch.
Sloan, J. G., to Sloan, J. G.
Story, J. D., to Story, J. R.
Tartleton, H. H., to Tarleton, H. H.
Vance, C. R., from 4 W. to 69 Ch.

It is The Davidsonian's purpose to correct any other mistakes that may be noted. If you know of any more,
please tell the editor.

A Reflection of good taste.
Every time you look in a glass you'll pat yourself on the back for ordering a real BEAU BRUMMEL SUIT
as tailored by the Storrs-Schaeffer Co., of Cincinnati. Here’s a "Tip" Get in early while our stock of woolens and
Kool Kloths are complete, and get that suit for JUNIOR SPEAKING and remember You Do Not take a Chance For
we guarantee the suit to please you in every way or you do not take it. Fair enough isn’t it?
Walk into 13 Chambers first floor North Wing and let us show you our line.

GILBERT and McARN
Representatives
