‘PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

LAST WEEK'S KALENDAR

Friday, 3 p.m. — Senior Forgetting Exercises.
8 p.m. — Seniors give instructions on how to run the world.
9:30 p.m. — Movies, most eminent Senior does not attend.

Saturday, 11 a.m. — Students learn how an education should be had.
3 p.m. — Senior Reading Exercises.
4:30 p.m. — Basketball game.
8 p.m. — Glee Club concert. Jazz selections make hit.

Last week's bone: Harold McKeichen mails letter minus envelope.

They are called peaches in Georgia; chickens in South Carolina, and birds in Virginia but at Davidson they are all
five. It was hard to tell whether the speakers or the audience were most relieved at the conclusion of each
performance. Time flies and never comes home to roost.

DICTIONARY.
Bone: To sing “Down N. C. State then....” at the P. C. game.
Irony: For a girl to wait two weeks to answer your letter and then say “be sure and write to
me soon.”
Hard-boy: The fellow who ran into the gym wall and knocked out two bricks.
Tough-luck: To have the lights go dead in Shearer Hall while reading your Senior speech.
Camafleurs: (This word ain't in any other dictionary we've got, so we ain’t sure how to spell it) Fresh who
open their mouths at games but do not sing.

Poss Dunlap wonders why his girl stopped writing: and Christmas so near too!
Buie, at Rock Hill, gazing into show window containing display of flower bulbs: “That’s the best bunch of onions I
ever saw.”
“How much does Mentholatum cost?”
Doe: “25c.”
“That’s just what I hoped it would 'cause if it cost more I wouldn’t have bought it.”

The happiest Senior there is alive is the guy who knocks down 85.

Oltman, discussing Law: “I know of an interesting case of a negro who broke into a man’s smoke-house and stole
all his—”
Nimocks, interrupting: “Meat?”
Oltman: “No, smoke.”

Might we suggest for the band member, who fails to close operations with the rest, that he choose for his
voluntary solos “All Alone.”

Seeing as our exchanges are showing their ability to solve math problems we present the following solutions of several examples
which are weighing heavily on members of Senior math:
99 plus 1 equals Impossible.
99 minus 1 equals Improbable.
99 minus 4 equals Name in Bulletin.
85 equals 10 days more.
85 minus 7 equals Stay here.
10 minus 1 equals Flunk.

Who is he? The guy who borrows your book the night before a review and then he-haws over you because
he got a higher grade.

Headwork: Wearing an overcoat to Thanksgiving dinner so you can cart off plenty of feed.

The absent-minded professor is no longer in it. Martin, P. L., failed to recollect that he was drilling without a
gun last week and continued to hold his arm and hand in the appropriate position parallel to ground, etc.

Strupper Martin gets only 9 days for Thanksgiving. At this rate he will probably return after Christmas or around Junior
Speaking.

To hear Buck Brown (of Tenn.) and Bess Shields (of Georgia) praising Carolina sunshine, Saturday night, was extremely refreshing.

As heard at the Florida Club: “Wake up, wake up, there’s snow all over the ground.”
Seph: “Things are not what they seem, my boy, that's only frost.”

Enemies of Tuller, '23, will rejoice to learn that he is broke.

“Does originality pay?” Asks the man who took the public speaking book out of the Library, for a textbook, and
paid out in fines the value of it, several times.

THE FUNCTION OF THE MINISTER.

The Century Magazine has a recent timely editorial on “The Clergy in the Wrong Box.” Adverting to the fact that
emphasis in religion is at present on the side of philanthropic causes, the Century truly says that “these things are
excellent but they are not the proper business of the clergy.” Ministers ought to be occupied with their specialty. And
the function of the minister is to do things which belong to his splendid profession. “He is to study and
to pray; he is to lead the worship of the people; he is to preach; he is to go about
on errands of ministry to the sick and sorrowful and sinful. In the midst of a generation occupied with things
material he is to uphold ideals and to represent the supreme importance of religion. There are plenty of people to
lecture on sociology and to organize philanthropy. The minister’s specialty demands all his time and thought. He is to save
our souls by building up character that shall be buttressed in principle.”

The “minister's son” does not seem to be exactly a scientific subject, and yet that decidedly technical magazine, The Popular
Science Monthly, deemed him a theme worth devoting four pages to in one of its recent numbers. A Presbyterian pastor
at Paterson, New Jersey, himself a good illustration of his own thesis, Rev. Clarence Edward Macartney, brings out the interesting
fact that one-twelfth of the names in “Who's Who”—which seems to be the standard “hall of fame” for living Americans
of prominence—are the names of preachers’ children. And this, he says, is twenty times the number that would be recognized
there if ministers’ boys ran only side by side with the sons of other people in the race for achievement
in the world. Mr. Macartney calculates that 30,000,000 people have come into existence in the world who would not have
lived if the Reformation had not madeIs it honorable for Christian ministers to marry? And he wants to know if
anybody can estimate how much good the world would have lost if these 30,000,000 children had not grown up in
ministers’ homes in the last 400 years.

BELGIAN PRINCE SALUTES

Greetings for the Boy Scouts of America were conveyed in a letter to Scout headquarters by Prince Leopold of Belgium
during his visit to this country. Part of the message, addressed to James E. West, chief Scout executive, runs as
follows:

“I am pleased to have an opportunity of conveying to you the expression of the brotherly feelings of the Boy
Scouts of Belgium to the Boy Scouts of America, and to express to you my best wishes for the prosperity
of your great organization. Prince Leopold and his brother are Belgian Scouts.”—Continent.

Football Men Awarded Letters

Thirteen “D’s” Given to Men of This Year’s Team

The intermission between the two parts of the Glee Club concert Saturday night was not an intermission after all. Football
honors for the 1919 season were awarded. Here at Davidson, the highest honor in athletics is that of being a
“D” man. “D. C.” is the next highest honor. There is no set standard which a man must attain before
the “D” or “D. C.” is awarded, but as a usual thing, only one or two men other than those
in the regular line-up are awarded a “D.” “D. C's” are awarded to those men who show ability but yet
do not quite reach the high standard of the “D” men. Sometimes it happens that men who really deserve “D.
C's” are not given them; this is done in order that they might gain valuable experience by playing class football.
These honors are awarded by the coach and former “D” men, by and with consent and advice of the Executive
Committee of the Athletic Association. For each year after the first in which the recipient wins a “D,” a star
is awarded.

Dr. James Douglas, an old “D” man, awarded the honors on behalf of the Athletic Association. Dr. Douglas awarded “D's”
to: J. M. Black ‘20 (three stars), J. C. McMaster ‘20 (two stars), H. M. Spann '20 (two stars), W.
L. Johnson '22 (one star), S. R. Brady '20 (one star), L. L. McAllister '20 (one star), D. P. Douglas
'20 (one star), F. M. Cassell ‘23, L. O. Hammett '21, D. R. LaFar '22, B. W. Romefelt '22, S.
M. Davis '23, and W. F. Hall '20 (manager’s “D”). “D. C's” were awarded to: D. G. Shaw ‘22, H.
P. Murray ‘21, J. M. McFadden ‘22, C. W. Worth ‘20, L. W. Dick '22, and W. S. Shepard ‘23.

J. M. Black ‘20 has a “D” with three stars, four years of Varsity ball. This is a record seldom
made at any college. At Davidson, the best memories can recall only one man with a record to equal Black’s:
Everett Booe '12. Black has been a tower of strength in the Davidson line-up for four seasons and will be
sorely missed. McMaster ‘20 and Spann ‘20 ran him a close race with two stars each. When Davidson loses McMaster,
she loses one of the best tackles that ever wore the Red and Black. Spann, our quarter-captain, and Johnson, captain
for the 1920 season, will have to hustle to beat Henry. Cassell and Davis did a rather unusual thing as
they won a “D” in their Fresh year. If they keep up the pace that they have set for themselves,
in 1923 they will equal the record of Black. For the next four seasons, Davidson looks to these two to
do great things.

Boys, we congratulate you, and wish you success in life or a “star” next year.

THE SHORTER BIBLE

Professor Kent of Yale, whose sympathy with German destructive criticism is well known, has produced a shorter Bible, assisted by
collaborators from the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. This book cuts out a great part of
phrases of many passages. A resolution was introduced into the Assembly protesting against this freedom with the Scriptures, and instructing
the Board of Publication not to sell it or display it on its tables. After hot discussion, this was amended
so as to refer the matter to the Board of Education, with instruction to discontinue its sale if found harmful.
This is a serious matter. If the church is to encourage the mutilation of the Scriptures, she certainly fights against
herself and her commission. The board is in no position to determine the hurtfulness of such a work. That is
done after the book is sold, and far beyond their knowledge. The board will do well to take warning from
this resolution against which many in the Assembly expressed dissent.—Presbyterian.

With all our meatless, wheatless, and sweetless days, we are yet not so badly off as was Lewis Carroll's charming
heroine in Wonderland.

“Well, then,” said Alice, “I have jam today.”

“Jam yesterday and jam tomorrow,” said the Queen, “but never jam today.”

Merry Christmas

Plenty of time to get that nifty suit or overcoat before the holidays. Let Traymore tailor you.

Matthews & Wilson

16 Chambers of This Strong Bank

Resources $4,000,000.00

Solicits your business.

Commercial Banking, Savings, Trust

Independence Trust Company

Charlotte, N. C.
