Ss - SENIOR SPEAKING THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

KING FURNITURE

PLENTY OF DIVERSION THIS IS THE REASON OF SPEAKING’S POPULARITY

MISS LAVINIA BOYER
The attractive daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M. E. Boyer, Charlotte, N.C.

Senior Speaking Now Only a Memory

Glee Club Gives Great Concert | Frat Reception an Occasion of Delight

They Came, They Were Seen, but Were They Conquered? Senior Speaking Brings Many Fair Visitors To Our Campus

They’ve gone; and they left with the memory of a large time. Our Senior class has certainly been honored with the presence of girls, very pretty girls, from every one of the Southeastern States, from Florida to Tennessee. They came on Friday, 74 strong, and not once was heard the old call, “Fire,” for it didn't take long to get used to them.

The student body was glad to see so many of the alumni back to see their alma mater again, and the more often they return the better. The following is a list of visitors for the Senior Oratorical exercises:

Pi Kappa Alpha.
Miss Marjorie Wearn, Charlotte; Misses Virginia Henkel and Julia Sherrill, and Mrs. J. C. White, Statesville; Miss Virginia Gray, Laurens, S. C.; Miss Eunice Blue, Raeford; Miss Ruby Neal Thompson, Lumberton; Miss Honlu Evans, Clio, S. C.; Miss Della Wicker, Laurinburg; Miss Frances Pitts, El Dorado, Tex.; Mrs. W. D. Witherspoon, Greensboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Miss Victoria Earle, Anderson, S. C.; Miss Geraldine Hatcher, Jacksonville, Fla.; Miss Mary Love Fraleigh, Madison, Fla.; Misses Olivia Wilson, Sarah Jeffries and Lucie Wilkinson, Winston-Salem; Miss Louise Pope, Morristown, Tenn.; Miss Pauline Hood, Kinston; Miss Irene Prine, Laurinburg; Miss Mildred Hull, Shelby; Miss Christel Liddon, Mariana, Fla.; Mrs. A. Currie, Davidson; Miss Roberta Berry, Morristown, Tenn.; Miss Eloise Martin, Davidson.

Kappa Sigma.
Misses Adlaide Harris, Lois Crowell and Frances Ridenhour, and Mrs. Harris, Concord; Miss Katherine Shuford, Gastonia; Misses Ruth Cannon and Adell Cross, Queens College, Charlotte; Miss Dolores Holt, Burlington; Miss Sarah Wilkins, York, S. C.; Misses Margaret Council, Louise O’Farrell and Laura Wiley, Salisbury; Miss Marian Bynum, Sumter, S. C.; Miss Emma Hope, Rock Hill, S. C.; Misses Elizabeth and Mary Parks Grey, Davidson; Miss Mary Spratt, Fort Mill, S. C.; Mrs. J. P. Paisley and the Misses Young, Davidson.

Beta Theta Pi.
Misses Elizabeth Brown, Kathryn Newson and Sidney Caldwell, and Mrs. S. J. Harrell, Charlotte; Miss Lelia Cox, Winston-Salem; Misses Lucille Brittain, Gaither Pierson and Margaret Overton, Salisbury; Miss Dorothy Mendenhall, Lexington; Miss Kate Whitner, Rock Hill, S. C.; Misses Olivia Brown and Kathryn Poe, Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Helen Bauer, Columbia, S. C.; Miss Helen Meares, Asheville; Lt. Col. and Mrs. Mueller, Davidson.

Kappa Alpha.
Misses Mary Stuart Alexander, Nancy and Ruth Shelton, Charlotte; Miss Anna Locke Ingram, Wadesboro; Miss Elizabeth Hendron, Winston-Salem; Miss Virginia Atkins, Charlotte; Miss Mary Richards and Dorothy Finlayson, Davidson; Miss Min Conyers, Asheville; Mr. and Mrs. Miles, Davidson.

Bachelors’ Club.
Misses Mae Stuart, Margaret Anderson, Bessie Chalmers, Lavinia Boyer, Margaret Evans, Mary Bridges, Lelia Graham Marsh and Hannah Alsover, and Mrs. J. Chalmers, Charlotte; Misses Mary Thomas, Margaret Sloan and Katherine Brawley, Statesville; Miss Marie Edgerton, Winston-Salem; Miss Ella Gunn, Andalusia, Ala.; Miss Mildred Smith, Statesville; Mrs. Mahood, Baltimore, Md.; Mrs. Hunt, Davidson.

LOUIE GETS HIS.
And his friends get door. Charming Chinaman Chuncked on Floor, Tragic Tragedy Tragefied.

How are the mighty fallen! Certain parties of the 3rd floor Watts, being weary unto death of Wilkinson’s water, fireworks, gas, and shocking machine, recently removed a plank from his closet ceiling, crawled cautiously down it and overturned the lordly water thrower. Admiring spectators state that the head rolled around behind the lavatory and the foot journeyed over to the radiator, while the springs and mattress performed a double revolution over the unfortunate victim and landed mattress up against the opposite wall. Next day another party took down his door and hid it in the shower bath. Then a third group removed it again and carried it to the athletic field where it remained all night and the next day. China has been singularly peaceful the last few days.

MISS LELIA GRAHAM MARSH
Charlotte. Memory to the Class of ’20

Some Spoke, Some Recited and Others Read—Flickering Lights Cause Much Annoyance to the Speakers

Senior Speaking is over. That is the big fact to the members of the class of ’20. Some had prepared long and carefully and acquitted themselves with proportional credit. Others had made less careful preparation, and this fact was evident. But no matter how they performed, the Seniors are glad it’s done.

Many of the speeches were excellent in composition and were well delivered; some lacked either one or both of these qualities. But as a whole, the speaking was good. It was ’20’s second experience in public oratorical exercises, and this fact was reflected in the fact that not so much nervousness was shown. Several of the speakers had had the broadening experience of overseas service and spoke on some phase ofthe life of the soldier. Of course, there was, as always, a good deal of reference to papers; one or two speakers had frankly to read theirs. C. H. Cathey gave a discussion of tobacco as an evil and a benefit that went straight to the heart of many addicts in the audience. And where there’s smoke there must be fire; so Chalmers discussed “The Girl We All Are After.” The Farmer, of The International Nation, Improved Our State, in spite of the fact that Nations Decay, and found The Race Problem A Paramount Problem in Reconstruction along with Irish Home Rule which appeared to be a Modern Red Death. Stand Up and Fight developed into a case of standing up and reading. The Impetus of Great Action was so strong that on its wave the rest of the section went through gloriously into the bliss of Ye Goode Old Days. The Doom of Autocracy was only an Aftermath. Over the Alps Lies Italy, but who wants to cross when he can stop in Geneva the Millennium City, can be reached easier? The Quest Eternal brought the knight to settle Economic Factors of Peace. J. W. Witherspoon probably sympathized with J. M. Black’s objections to Daylight Saving. The Prehistoric Man dropped the curtain and the show was over—the class of 1920 had had its last forensic experience.

Another interesting and attractive visitor from Miss Elizabeth Miller, charming daughter of Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., President of Alumni Association.

The orchestra and Cathey were the shining stars. To say that the concert given by the Davidson Glee Club and Orchestra last Saturday night was a success would be to speak the truth. It was one of the best concerts that has been given at Davidson for many years. A large audience was present, and the many encores showed their appreciation of the several numbers. The concert opened with a selection by the Orchestra. This was followed by “College Ties,” given by the Glee Club. Next was a piano solo by M. A. Tremain, after which the Orchestra gave another selection. The Quartet then sang “Go to Sleep,” by De Haven, accompanied by Carl Cathey in a humorous sketch, and was encored several times. Next came a solo by A. G. Oltman. The first part of the program closed with “By the Camp Fire,” given by the Glee Club. In the intermission, the football letters were awarded to the Varsity team. The program again opened with a selection by the Orchestra. The Glee Club next gave “Tulip Time.” This was followed by a solo by B. E. Shields, “On the Road to Mandalay.” Next, the Quartet gave “Mandy” with the Glee Club joining on the chorus. After this, one of the most popular numbers of the evening was the character sketch by Carl Cathey. The Quartet and Glee Club gave another selection, “Carolina Sunshine.” The concert closed with “O Davidson,” by the Glee Club.

FIAPRIY CALLE IN THE UNIVERSAL, SPECIAL ATTRACTION. “THE RIDER OF THE LAW”

Much Pleasure Rain Has No Terrors for Fair Visitors Who Crowd the Halls

Among the most attractive features of Senior Speaking was the fraternity reception given last Saturday night at 10 o’clock in honor of its many guests. It was as an enjoyable occasion as was ever given on the Hill. Attractive visitors from both Carolinas and other Southern States, including many girls from nearby colleges, received the hospitality of the fraternity men. In spite of the inclemency of the weather, which made it very unpleasant to venture out, each fraternity entertained a number of guests and received visits from the attractive visitors of the other fraternities. The halls were very neatly decorated. Here and there in a corner you could see a social lion with a dress suit. The Seniors, from all appearances, must have found that speeches in private, to the fair sex, were much to be preferred than those in public, to the fair sex. After the reception was well underway, the visitors were escorted by the gentlemen to the other halls. Punch, sandwiches, and cakes were served by each fraternity to the visitors. A general good time was indulged in by all. After making the rounds of the halls, the groups returned to their respective halls and bade each other adieu for the night.

ABUSED, BUT HAPPY.

The negro in the South, as in the North, is persecuted, and worse than persecuted, here and there. He does not here and there receive the rights to which he is entitled. This fact is a howling discredit to American civilization. But to picture the negroes of the South as a sullen, hunted, despairing race is to picture what does not exist.—Nashville Advocate.

“NO ENEMIES.”

You have no enemies, you say? Alas, my friend, that boast is poor. He, who has mingled in the fray Of duty that the brave endure, Must have made foes! If you have none Small is the work that you have done. You've hit no traitor on the hip, You've dashed no cup from perjured lip You've never turned wrong to right; You've been a coward in the fight.