THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

Town News

Miss Mildred Johnson, daughter of Mrs. J. P. Johnson, and a graduate of Converse, is to be married to Mr. Fred J. Hay, an alumnus of Davidson, Tuesday afternoon, October the fourteenth, at the Presbyterian church.

The community of Davidson is glad to welcome Prof. and Mrs. Shewmake and daughter, who have taken up their residence in Mrs. Worth’s home. Prof. and Mrs. Hunt and daughter will reside in the Spence house this winter.

Mr. John Dickson and Miss Mary Dickson, Miss Arrowwood and Mr. McLain were guests of Dr. and Mrs. Martin on Monday.

Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Miles spent the week-end in Lexington, N. C., Mr. Miles filling the pulpit of the Presbyterian church on Sunday.

Mr. and Mrs. Paisley, of Guilford County, spent Sunday with Mrs. J. P. Paisley.

Mrs. A. Currie entertained a group of neighborhood friends Saturday evening in honor of Miss Johnson, the bride-elect.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Mathews and little daughter, of Charlotte, spent Sunday with Mrs. Matthews’ mother, Mrs. Miley.

Misses Mary and Elizabeth Young have just returned from an extensive trip to New York and Atlantic City.

Did it Rain Saturday Night? Ask Watts

It Never Rains But it Pours—Watts Gets Thorough Bath

The inter-dormitory water fights opened with a splash. “The dormitories were full of pride challenging each to each" and each, as it seems, called the other's bluff. Saturday night from 10 until 11 was the time: Watts, Rumple and Chambers the scenes of watering.

On the tick of ten by Bitzer’s Ingersoll third floor Watts cut loose on Georgia with paper bags. The response was most gratifying and an expedition for revenge was organized in a concise time. The uppermost berths of the pivotal structure were duly attacked and irrigated. By some miracle the showers in Watts were still provided with hot water and the same was provided, not a la mode, for the assailants. However, the Georgians soon held the floors and Watts fell from her lofty citadel.

The combined forces of dormitories 2 and 3 next fell on Rumple. Rumple fell on her knees, with the exception of one or two Fresh, who put up a plucky but unlucky resistance. The staff reporter present went up to the hall of conflict to get information. He got drowned. Soon the famous weanie, weechy, etc., message of Caesar was sent back to headquarters by the invaders.

Chambers was the next victim. Five of the six floors of that massive mass of mortar and brick fell into the hands of the allied soakers without resistance. Just as their paeans of victory were ascending toward the stars and the cupola, the flower of Chambers’ manhood rushed from the third floor of the north wing and expelled the invaders with the broomsticks which they carried.

The chief characteristic of the costumes of the occasion was the fact that they weren't. That night “clothes made the man,” but they only made him unhappy. The leaders afft-un-dressed the statues of the ancient Greeks and the hot water, dispersed by the Wattites, skinned even the leaders. But no one was hurt and all present united in declaring the three hostesses most charming entertainers. Cold weather will, in all probability, prevent a re-performance, but will certainly fail to prevent a remembrance of the occasion.

Col. and Mrs. Mueller and Mrs. Mueller’s sister, Mrs. Acors, and her son spent the week-end at Blowing Rock.

Mrs. J. S. Worth and Miss Frances Worth left last Saturday for Linden and a winter of extensive travel. Miss Katherine Worth is in her senior year at Converse.

Friends of Mrs. W. A. Potts will be glad to know that her condition is favorable, after a serious operation at Dr. Long's Sanatorium in Statesville.

Friends of Col. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell are glad to know that their son Courtney is much improved after his recent serious illness.

Quips and Cranks Select Staff -- Work Soon to Begin On New Annual

Undecided as Yet Whether to Print Last Year’s Annual

The following editors and managers have been chosen for the 1920 Annual:

Editor-in-Chief—J. W. Witherspoon.
Literary Editors—A. L. Wilson, D. M. Chalmers, T. W. Hawkins, J. R. Walker, C. M. McCaskill, G. O. Jones.
Art Editors—R. L. Rogers, C. H. Long, R. Bitzer, R. R. McIlwaine, J. H. Sprunt.
Manager—H. B. Brown.
Assistant Managers—C. M. McCaskill, C. R. Vance, W. W. McCorkle.

The managers expect to have the pictures taken right after Thanksgiving so as to get them out of the way as soon as possible. The White Studio, of New York City, will probably do the photographic work. Manager Brown is carrying on negotiations with them now. The engraving will be done by the Bureau of Engraving, Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the Benson Printing Company, of Nashville, Tennessee, will do the printing.

It will be decided this week whether or not last year’s annual will be published. As soon as this is done, work will be commenced on the new Annual. All the manuscript will be in the hands of the printer not later than February 15, 1920. And we hope to have the annuals here for delivery by the middle of April.

She was weeping bitter tears into her afternoon tea. “Oh, my dear!” she said to her only friend, “I do not know what I shall do. Ted and I have only been married six months, yet he spends every evening at his club.”

“Well, do not worry, darling,” said the other. “Percy is just the same. But I shall never scold him again for spending so much time at his club.”

“Why not?”

“Well, last night a burglar got in the house and my husband knocked him senseless with a poker. I have heard several men speak of him as a poker expert. He has evidently been practicing at the club for such an emergency.”

CLASS BASKETBALL WILL BE SCRAPPY THIS YEAR. GAMES SOONTO BEGIN | With a bunch of about 40 men out for basketball, all of whom are working hard, there is no doubt but that there will be some good, scrappy games between the classes in the near future. The fellows have been practicing from the day the ball came, about two weeks ago. The senior team will need some replenishing this year, as Chalmers and Prep. Hall joined the varsity last year. McAlister is playing football and Caldwell did not return to college. Tommie Hawkins, who formerly played good ball, is ready to fill one of the vacancies. Askew and Craig are the only last year's players that are eligible to play. The junior team gave up Schenck and Harrington to the varsity last year. There are some enterprising juniors who are working for the vacancies. Oltman and King are both good players. Brice, A. P. Ormond, and Finley are last year’s players who are eligible. The Sophs’ ranks were not broken by the varsity claiming any of them, yet Denny, one of their best forwards, is not in college. The other four, who are Doubles, A. C. Ormond, Cornelson, and J. P. Price, are ready for work. The Erwin brothers are showing up well. The Fresh have never rounded their team into shape as yet. They have some good men out and no doubt they will put out a strong team. Some of their best players are Crawford, Covington, Dick, Toney, Mauze, and Sorrells.

Mrs. Geo. V. Zeigler and Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Moseley and son, of Orangeburg, and Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Wilson, of Rock Hill, were here on Sunday. Last week, S. M. Query enjoyed a visit from his mother, who lives in Concord.

This Attraction Coming to Davidson October 15th

SPLENDID TALENT COMING HERE ON LYCEUM COURSE

Sale of Season Tickets Should Be Large. ATTRACTIONS WELL SELECTED

Numbers Will Be Both Inspiring and Enjoyable—Course Is a Community Asset.

An excellent list of attractions has been selected for the Lyceum Course here this season, and the sale of season tickets should be unusually large. Reports from the well-known Redpath Bureau, from which the attractions on the course were secured, state that never before have so many communities arranged for Lyceum courses. People everywhere are welcoming the great opportunity offered by the Lyceum for good, clean entertainment and lectures of an inspirational and authoritative character. A Lyceum course is certainly an asset to any community. It brings to the community men of note to talk on important themes, and it also furnishes music, song, and story of high standard. The Lyceum cannot but make for better citizenship. The local course has been carefully selected, and the attractions will be found to be both inspiring and enjoyable. The different numbers may be briefly described as follows:

RICH-WERNO ENTERTAINERS.

Miss Rita Rich and Miss Laura Werno, who entertained and delighted Lyceum audiences as members of The Killarney Girls company, have been engaged by the Redpath Bureau to appear together as a new company to be known as the Rich-Werno Entertainers. As the Dublin Girls, Miss Rich and Miss Werno have just recently toured one of the big Redpath Chautauqua circuits and their programs have everywhere been most cordially received. In selecting a name for these entertainers it was at first thought that The Dublin Girls should be retained as a title, but because their program includes songs, stories, and impersonations of many other peoples besides the natives of the Emerald Isle, it was decided that the company should derive its name from its own members—Miss Rich and Miss Werno.

Miss Rita Rich immediately wins the hearts of her audiences. She is well known for her impersonations of children and also as an impersonator of the grown-ups of many countries. As a singer, in appropriate costumes, of the folk songs of various nations she wins enthusiastic commendation. Miss Laura Werno, reader, pianist, and singer, has appeared in public ever since she was eight years old as a reader of dialect selections. She is a clever pianist and her character songs always win a hearty reception.

I've got it in my cellar, and believe me, boys, I'm glad! I've got it in my cellar, it's the best that can be had! 'Twill bring me joy and comfort, and hot times, upon my soul! I've got it in my cellar—eleven tons of coal.
—Old Doc.

The Selwyn Hotel

FIRE PROOF

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.

Lively patterns and a cheerful gaiety mark the colors of our Fall furnishings. It looks as if everybody intended to let themselves go a bit, not quite so set and conventional as before the war. Neckwear is very expressive of the state of one’s mind. The new socks will also cheer up your feet. Handkerchiefs that will brighten the facade of your suit. Everything here sparkling with newness from top to toe.

Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

H. C. LARZELE, Prop.
34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Announcement....

We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trademarks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors. Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The coming together into one company of two such entertainers assures to their audiences a thoroughly delightful program, a program which sparkles with fun and is enriched with good music.

PHONE 643
216 N. TRYON ST.