THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 18, 1919

Athletic News

Football Gleanings

Dope Spilled in Several Contests Last Saturday

Georgia Tech is beaten. The Virginia Generals are heirs to the football supremacy in the South. For four years the Yellow Jackets have held this title only to lose it last Saturday by a 3 to 0 count. The Golden Tornado started the game off with a rush and once a fumble was made as the runner was crossing the goal line. On another occasion, Bill Fincher fumbled a pass on the two-yard line that Buck Flowers had shot to him with unerring accuracy. On still another occasion, Flowers missed a drop kick. As the game progressed, W. & L. strengthened and Tech weakened. With the exception of one march up the field, the Jackets did not make a first down in the last half and only gained three yards in all. Washington & Lee, on the other hand, gained consistently and executed forward passes beautifully. Tech's lone march up the field in the last half occurred when she secured the ball under the shadow of her goal and carried it far into enemy territory. Here her strength was spent, and defeat was accepted. Bethel, who played in the line for W. & L., was the star of the game, putting up a spectacular defense. Jim Mattox kicked the drop kick from the 25-yard line which won the game.

Georgetown defeated the strong Navy team Saturday by the score of 6 to 0. This was a great surprise in football circles. The Georgetown eleven is headed for Atlanta Saturday and the Golden Tornado will, according to all dope, suffer another defeat. The outlook is dark for Tech at any rate. Georgetown is equipped with all the formations and tricks of the Pittsburgh eleven. Al Exendine, Georgetown’s coach, is closely associated with Glen Warner.

Seldom is there as much pep displayed at a football game as in the N. C. State-Davidson contest last Saturday. The State supporters and Charlotteans did not seem to understand how Davidson...

Class Basketball Gets Under Way This Week

Many Close Contests Anticipated—Juniors and Sophs Are Apparently the Best Bets

Inter-dormitory basketball has paved the way for an interesting series of class games which will begin soon. Basketball is coming to the front more and more each year, and this is largely because Mr. Miles is behind it. The best men were picked for the inter-dormitory games and the managers of the class teams will have little difficulty in picking their men from these.

Lot Askew, one of last year’s stars, is to lead the Senior team this year. He has a very limited number to choose from, as Chalmers and Hall joined the Varsity last year and Lacy McAlister is playing football. The other prospects are Hawkins, Craig, Wilson, Stogner, and Good.

The Junior team also gave up two good players, Shenck and Harrington, to the Varsity last year. Still, they have left Brice, Finley, Ormand, A. P., King, and Oltman. All these are good players and are going to play somebody close for another championship.

The Sophomore class has practically all its last year's force and several new men. The men showing up good for this team are Doubles, Ormand, A. C., Price, Cornelson, the Erwin Bros., and Strillich. This team is going to give the Juniors trouble, and then will probably take the championship from them.

The Freshmen have some good material and will no doubt put out a good team. The ones who showed up well in the inter-dormitory games are Crawford, Mauze, Tuller, Dick, Brake, Farmer, Covington, and others.

The series began Tuesday and increasing interest and pep is being manifested from game to game. The schedule is as follows:
Nov. 11—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 12—Seniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 13—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Nov. 14—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Nov. 18—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 19—Seniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 20—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 21—Seniors vs...

Gridiron Warriors to Receive Gold Footballs

Funds Being Raised to Secure Rewards for Pigskin Letter Men

At the suggestion of Tim Pharr, who has been assisting Coach Crayton with the football team, a fund is being raised for the purpose of giving every member of the team a gold football. The idea at first was to have just the ex-stars contribute, but it was thought better to leave it open for all the alumni. Coach Pharr has very generously started the fund with a ten-dollar subscription and others have signified their intention of contributing. This is a custom that should have been started long ago and it is hoped that the necessary amount will soon be raised. Mr. F. L. Jackson, registrar, will be glad to receive your check.

DID WE ROOT? I'LL SAY WE DID. KEEP UP THE GOOD SPIRIT

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, N. Y.
The name “Argonne” is used by courtesy of the Argonne Shirt Co., Philadelphia

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
R. S. Johnson Co.
Fancy Groceries

Stop and See
...Sophs could keep up its pep when defeat seemed inevitable. That, however, is one of Davidson's inborn characteristics. Aerial attacks and line plunges were used with great success by the Cadets. From a half hour before the game until the final whistle blew, the Davidson students and band occupying the entire bleachers at Wearn Field did not cease to create a veritable thunder. Between halves, although things were going against them, the Davidsonians gave a snake dance on the field that would have put a tribe of Indians to complete shame. Backed by the college band and a good majority of the Queens College girls, who remained loyal to the bitter end, the name of Davidson was constantly in the air.

University of S. C. and Tenn. played to a 6 to 6 tie. Other football results:
- Princeton 10; Harvard 10.
- Pitt 7; W. and J. 6.
- Yale 14; Brown 0.
- Vanderbilt 16; Alabama 12.
- Citadel 41; Newberry 0.
- Miss. A. & M. 34; U. of Miss. 0.
- Princeton Fresh 13; Harvard Fresh 0.
- Hampden-Sidney 10; Randolph-Macon 0.
- V. P. I. 30; Wake Forest 0.
- Roanoke College 18; Guilford 7.

Next Saturday:
- Davidson vs. U. of N. C.
- N. C. State vs. V. P. I.
- Georgia Tech vs. Georgetown.
- Clemson vs. Citadel.
- V. M. I. vs. Roanoke College.
- Alabama vs. Louisiana State.
- Furman vs. Erskine.
- Washington & Lee vs. S. Carolina.
- Virginia vs. Vanderbilt.
- Auburn vs. Mississippi A. & M.

THE FUN OF FOOTBALL.
On Monday the quarterback lies on his bed. A seven-inch break in the top of his head. One halfback is hopelessly down with the gout. The other is waiting to be counted out. One tackle’s left leg has been broken in twain. The other's arm is giving him pain. The right end is just on the brink of the grave. The left end is locoed—his limbs won't behave. The fullback is peevish way down in the dumps. The center is ailing with various bumps. On Friday they all sing a funeral tune, and battle like wildcats the same afternoon.

WHEN THAT CHOO CHOO RUNS FOR WINSTON WE'LL BE THERE.
The schedule for the special train from Davidson to Winston-Salem Saturday has been given out as follows: Leave Davidson at 10:30 a.m. and arrive in Winston at 12:15 p.m. Leave Winston Saturday night at 9:00 p.m. and arrive back at Davidson at 11:30 p.m. According to the latest dope, Davidson has an unusually good chance of bringing home the bacon in this game. All the Davidson boosters and rooters have the same old pep and spirit that characterized the gang at that ill-fated game last Saturday. Get the Davidson spirit, boys, and go down and give Mr. Abernathy that four dollars, and be “Winston Bound.” Someone remarked Saturday, “Davidson is the best loser I’ve ever seen.” Through the entire evening splendid music was furnished by The Garber-Davis Orchestra, adding attraction to the delightful reception which prevailed among the guests gathered in the beautifully decorated hall. Refreshing punch was served during the course of the evening.

LOTTE HONORS DAVIDSON AND N. C. STATE STUDENTS WITH DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.
The reception given at The Manufacturers Club of Charlotte, Saturday night in honor of the Davidson and State College boys was a very enjoyable affair. The guests were welcomed by many prominent citizens of Charlotte and a host of young ladies. Davidson was well represented by both members of the faculty and a large number of students.

Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, '15, with Mrs. McIlwaine, will sail for Japan from Vancouver on the 13th. They expect to stop over in Hartford, Conn., for a few days’ visit with F. W. Price, '15. Mr. Price is taking his theological course at Auburn Seminary. The engagement of Rev. W. C. Rourk, '16, of Newlands, N. C., to Miss Jeane Black, of Charlotte, is announced, the wedding to take place December 3. Rev. D. A. McNeill, ’12, who has been overseas in the chaplaincy service, has located at Mangum, Okla.

Lady in Chicago Telegraphs for Rat-Snap.
Read Mrs. Phillips’ wire: “Youell’s Exterminator Co., Westfield, N. J. Rush $3 worth of RAT-SNAP.” Later received the following letter: “RAT-SNAP arrived, it rid our house of rats in no time. Just moved here from Pa., where I used RAT-SNAP with great results.” Three sizes, 25c, 50c, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware Company and White Drug Company.

If I don’t please, tell me. A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies. See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

FELLOWS
I am agent for the Ben Vonde Company, the best dry cleaning establishment in the South.
Yours truly,
E. N. BOOKER
18 Watts

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address
W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President