The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Capt. Morrison Gives Interesting Account of Piedmont Battery

The Y.M.C.A. had an unusual privilege last Sunday night in hearing Capt. Reid Morrison, of the Piedmont Battery. Captain Morrison was a star baseball player when he attended Davidson and is one of Davidson's most loyal alumni. He gave a graphic account of the work of the Piedmont Battery over there.

After a short preparatory course at Fort Sims, the Battery was sent to England. The convoy took a route as far north as Iceland in order to avoid the submarines. The landing was made at Liverpool, but the battery soon went on to France, landing at La Havre. From there, they were sent to a training camp at Coetquidan and the men were given an intensive course on the use of the French 75s.

Just before the St. Mihiel drive, the Piedmont Battery was sent to the right end of the salient. Captain Morrison related some very interesting incidents about the trip to the front. Owing to the aeroplanes of the enemy, after the Battery neared the front, all the marching was done at night, and the Battery remained under cover of woods or deserted villages during the day. The anti-aircraft guns, according to Captain Morrison, did not seem to be of much real aid, other than keeping the enemy's planes up at a high altitude. As the explosion of their charge disturbed the air, attacking airplanes would have to ascend.

After a few days, the Battery was transferred to the right of the Argonne sector and was engaged in the Argonne drive. In this, so many horses died through lack of provender and overwork that their number was reduced from one hundred and twenty-six to about thirty. On account of this crippled condition, the Battery was again changed to the left end of the St. Mihiel salient. The village which the Battery occupied was Hannonville. This village had been vacated by some industrious Germans who had cultivated a fine crop of vegetables. These were gladly eaten by the Americans, who had been living almost entirely on canned goods.

There was no continued fighting going on in this section, except for occasional barrage fire. Captain Morrison said that the gunfire was done almost entirely by maps. When he was told to fire upon a certain position, he calculated the distance and the direction from the map; for usually, he could not even see the place which he was to fire upon.

After some weeks of inaction, Captain Morrison was told to hold the Battery in readiness to advance at any time, but on the following day, the armistice was declared. Later, it was found that the Germans had concealed a strong force in front of Hannonville which would have almost certainly resulted in heavy losses to the Piedmont Battery if they had advanced. After advancing into the surrendered territory, the Battery was finally recalled and reached America again in the latter part of March.

RELICS.

Sophomore Banquet Was Held Thursday Night

Class of '21 Had Great Time, Credit to Mgr. McKelden.

The Soph Banquet came off in great style Thursday night. The whole occasion was a glorious success. The big seven-passenger cars took the boys to Charlotte, leaving Davidson a little after two o'clock, thus enabling them to see the Virginians go down in defeat before the Wildcats, Davidson's nine. The game was a good omen, and when the thirty-eight guests took their seats at eight o'clock in the Selwyn banquet hall, everyone was in the highest spirits. The musicians were unfortunately late but came in about the middle of the feast.

The menu started auspiciously with oyster cocktail, celery, and olives. The other courses followed rapidly, as the whole aggregation was hungry. Breaded brook trout with tartar sauce received undivided attention. Next came roast young turkey with delicious dressing, mashed potatoes, and green peas. Fruit salad and cold ham followed. Ice cream and cake finished the substantial part of the meal.entertainment. While the last dishes were being cleared away by the host of butlers, some countenances up and down the line took on a strained expression and there was some whispered speculation as to the nature of demi-tasse. This turned out to be black coffee. Cheese and saltines were served with it. Those of the strained countenance became uneasy. Cop Johnston, toastmaster, rose to the occasion. Cop began with the lines, “The stag at eve had drunk his fill,” and after fitting the sentiment to the occasion wound up with an adjuration to have a great time. Joe Miller, president of the student body, gave his toast to the class, saying that every class that amounted to anything has a Soph banquet. Brooks Peters, president of the Senior class, next rose and told how the classes of ‘19 and '21 were closer than any of the others. All this was rather a reflection on Henry Spann, president and representative of '20. After laying the blame for the failure of his class to have a banquet on the war, he admitted that ‘21 is a wonderful class, and recalled to mind that it was nurtured under the protecting wing of '20. Price, on behalf of the Freshmen, then rose and in touching and passionate words thanked the class of '21 for what they have done for the Fresh. Lewis Schenck, Soph president, proposed a toast to the visitors and to Jim McKeldin, manager of the banquet. Jim, being called upon, stated the purpose of the banquet was to draw the class together and arouse class spirit. Cop was now in his element. He called on different men, prepared and unprepared, for speeches, giving each one a send-off in eloquent language. Another half hour was spent in jokes, toasts, and witticisms. Cop was having the time of his young life. He was a most excellent toastmaster, and kept things going from beginning to end. Professor Reed, faculty representative, closed with the speech of the evening. He said he came to eat, not to speak, but he did both very well. After a yell for the class and one for Manager McKeldin, the banquet disbanded and sought entertainment elsewhere. With Cop as master of ceremonies, and McKeldin to make arrangements, it is no wonder that the class of twenty-one has had a Soph banquet that it will not soon forget.

Quality and Service
Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE? The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.
Engraved Work a Specialty
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643) NORTH CAROLINA
C. J. MATTHEWS, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial

The Smithsonian Institution “ought to begin getting ready for an interesting permanent exhibit of corkscrews”—Detroit News.

Graduation tolls the knell of parting day; The busted herd winds slowly o'er the lea; The Graduate homeward takes his happy way And leaves the Freshman Math. to you and me.
—Not by Thomas Gray.

At the same place with new equipment
Hood Norton
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

THE WAR IS OVER But We Continue to Deliver THE BEST FRESH MEAT PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED
White’s Market
Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C. Next to Post Office

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling