~ The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

Shoe Repairing
For neatness and durability send your shoes to the Shu Fixery, Charlotte, N.C.
H. C. LARZELE, Prop.

Attention, College Boys!
A new line of Stetson, No-Name, Vanity and Belk Hats at $4.00, $5.00, $6.00, and $7.00. College boys’ skirt model suits, $25.00, $30.00, $35.00 and $40.00. New Neckwear at 50c, $1.00, and $1.50. Silk Half-Hose in all colors at 59c, 85c, and 90c.
Belk Brothers
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N.C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

16 Chambers
Witnessed by a few friends of each.

Main street, Friday evening, led by Ratchford, glowing in a glorious creation of scarlet and purple.

FORMER DAVIDSON “Y” SECRETARY GOES HIGHER
Rev. Joseph A. G. Moore, who is pleasantly remembered by Davidson students as their first Y.M.C.A. Secretary, having served here during the S.A.T.C., has been called to the pastorate of the Cornell Student Church. This church has 7,000 members and represents six denominations. Mr. Moore was Y.M.C.A. Secretary at Davidson for about a month and a half last fall during the S.A.T.C. Every student on the campus admired and respected Mr. Moore, and his leaving to take up work in the University of Rochester was a cause of grief to all. He left Davidson to go to a larger field and the best wishes of the student body went with him.

The Davidsonian Reporters club is not giving a feed this week. This unusual state of affairs is inexplicable and is being thoroughly investigated by an experienced news-noter.

Some enterprising freshman (we hope) has clipped a coupon from the last issue of Success magazine in the library. The remainder of the advertisement announces that a Ford is to be given free. “Friend, can we ride with you?”

The disadvantage of spending Sunday on the hill was amply exemplified by George Adams when he remained over the weekend for the first time. When the collection plate was handed to him first, since he was sitting on the front seat, he got up and started to carry it around the church. Hence his very appropriate appellation, “Deacon.”

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Astronomy,
The stars are very high,
And this we know:
But though we study hard,
Our grades are low.

Work without intelligence is like a suit without style, it may keep you warm, but—

The blue sky is the limit. Fly as high and as freely as fancy dictates. There are no hard or fast rules to hold you down this season in regard to what you shall wear. A cheerful freedom is the last word as to styles, trim, patterns, and colors. Our $35.00 suit takes the air readily—it’s a bird.

A step in time saves many a dime. Prices are not coming down—quite the reverse.

PLAY TENNIS WITH THE LIVEST WIRE ON THE HILL:
“We play Tech the first Saturday in November.”
Martin, '22: “That's the 8th, isn’t it?”

Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.
THE COMMISSARY
34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

By Woolfolk.

We have a college paper, The best I ever saw; I send italways to my gal, And I send it to my paw. We hate to give a man free advertising, but when he, as Pig Iron did, advertises stationery at .95c per box, we want to tell everyone of the bargain being offered.

"We have an editor-in-chief, He's a good man all around, When he wants an editorial, He says, 'Here, Fresh, take this down.'"

"I'm off," said the freshman as he fell from the tank.

Last week's reference to Brice was thoroughly enjoyed by the freshmen and Gilmer. As for our business manager, he's the finest to be had, he'd scour the whole wide country for the smallest kind of ad.

We are pleased to announce that, in addition to our already modern facilities, we have secured the services of a Commercial Artist in the person of Mr. J. B. Mallard, and are prepared to furnish promptly original sketches and designs for all classes of commercial work, such as trade marks, monograms, book covers, signatures, etc. Designs in one or more colors.

The Reporters' club is snappy, always on their feet; and as for gathering up the news, this bunch just can't be beat.

Now here's to the scorching goober boy, He fills the Peanut Parcher full, And pulls a good joke now and then, But shoots his mostly bull.

The rest of the staff is also fine. I haven't time to tell, And may this paper still be going when we're dead and gone to heaven.

Oh, it's not that you're punk that makes you flunk, It's the fact that you never study.

Master Rumor has it that Miss Lyndon Foscue received a catalogue from a well-known young ladies' seminary last week.

Wildcats Preparing (Continued from page 1) (Tech) and Crayton (Davidson) will probably line up as follows:

Ga. Tech. Position. Davidson.
Fincher left end Davis
Hammett left tackle Sorrells or Shaw
Higgins left guard Phillips
LeBey center Brady
Romefelt right guard McMaster
Dowling right tackle Douglas
Staton right end Mauze
Flowers left halfback Johnston or Cassell
Barron right halfback Black or McAlister
Spann fullback McAlister or Shepherd

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

The student body meeting at the train Friday night was a howling success. Why not hold chapel there and have 100% attendance?

James Stucky Says, "Rat Cost Me $125 for Plumbing Bills."

"We couldn't tell what was clogging up our toilet and drains. We had to tear up floor, pipes, etc., found a rat's nest in basement. They had choked the pipes with refuse. The plumber's bill was $125. RAT-SNAP cleaned the rodent out." Three sizes, 25¢, 50¢, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hardware Co. and White Drug Co.

The annual sweater parade was held and people seem to think today that...

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643