The DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1919

With the Alumni

M. A. Thompson, ex-'20, who was wounded in the gallant charge of the Marines at Chateau Thierry and afterwards recounted
this stirring charge before the Davidson S. A. T. C. unit in September, is now in Boston receiving treatment from
a nerve specialist in the hope of regaining use of his arm. He is pursuing some studies at Harvard University,
and hopes to come back and finish with his class. He writes: "Maybe if I do not have to spend
too much time in the hospital I can join my old class yet." "Thomp" has the true Davidson spirit and
his classmates and friends will entertain the fond hope of having him with us in the near future.

REGISTRATIONS WITH AM. UNIV. UNION IN PARIS (From Nov. 5 to Dec. 9, 1918)

Davidson College.
Currie, H. E. M. A., '16, 1st Lt. Inf. 35th Division.
Gilchrist, John W. S., '15, 1st Lt. Aerial Observer S. C. 109th Aero Sqdn.
Patterson, Leslie H., '18, Sergt. 301st Amer. Tank Center, care British Tank Corps, B. E. F.
Thompson, J. W., '10, 371st Inf. Secteur Postal 229, Co. G.
Mullen, LeRoy A., '16, 1st Lt. Air Service, Paris Hqrs. A. P. O. 702.

Rev. J. A. Carriker, '15, who was recently discharged from the service, spent Sunday on the campus. Before enlisting Mr.
Carriker was working in British Columbia. During the summer he had at his bachelor quarters a ten days’ visit from
Dr. Grant, the original Sky Pilot, described by Ralph Connor, which was spent in hunting and fishing.

Corporal J. N. Hillhouse, ex-'13, is completing eighteen months of service overseas in the photographic laboratory of the Signal Corps.
He writes from Paris: "We hope to get through our photographic work by next spring and go home. But we
are busy now with all the Kings and Presidents and things coming into Paris almost daily."

LETTER TO ALUMNI.

To the Alumni:

The annual fee of $100 for Davidson’s membership in the American University Union is now due and all interested alumni
are requested to forward to Prof. A. Currie or myself their contribution to this fund. Several weeks ago a letter
was sent to the alumni who contributed last year to our membership in the union, but up to date only
three have responded. Please let us have good contributions as soon as convenient. Remember that the services of the Union
as a meeting place and rest center for Davidson men when they go to Paris is more needed at this
time than when the war was actually going on. We received numerous letters last year telling how much pleasure our
alumni got out of the Union. Let us continue our membership. We need $60 by next mail. Can't you write
us a check for $5.00, or maybe $10.00?

Thanking you, I am
Sincerely,
J. M. McCown

COMEDY.

If there is anything funnier than a 200-pound girl being rowed around a 6x4 park lake by a dashing young
120-pound anaemic, show me!—Ex.

NOTICE TO ALUMNI.

It is requested and very vigorously urged that the alumni of Davidson College who have served in any capacity with
the American Expeditionary Force and who have snap-shot photographs, taken in France, forward copies of all such photographs, together with
the necessary explanatory information to be used as captions, to the Officer in Charge, Pictorial Section, Historical Branch, War Plans
Division, General Staff, Army War College, Washington, D.C. These photographs are requested for incorporation in the permanent pictorial files, which
will serve as the official photographic record and history of the war.

C. E. Weeks, Colonel, General Staff.
Chief, Historical Branch, W.P.D.
By A. Goodrich, Captain, U.S.A., Pictorial Section.

WHY SHOULD YOU SWEAR?

1. Because it would look so nice in print.
2. Because it is such a conclusive proof of taste and good breeding.
3. Because it is just what a man’s mother enjoys having her son do.
4. Because it is such a help to manhood and virtue in many ways.
5. Because it is such a good way of increasing one's self-respect.
6. Because it is such an elegant way of expressing one’s thoughts.
7. Because it is positive evidence of acquaintance with good literature.
8. Because it furnishes such a good example and training for the boys.
9. Because it is such a sure way of making one’s self agreeable to his friends.
10. Because it is such an infallible way of improving one’s chances in the hereafter.—Daily Kansan.

WOMEN'S RIGHTS.

A man can’t sell his house without his wife's consent. He must pay her bills, whatever they may be, or
for what. If he deserts her she can haul him back into jail. If she deserts him, he takes his
medicine, saith the law. If he jilts his sweetheart, she can get him for breach of promise. If she deserts
her lover, he gets the horselaugh and snicker. If he whips her, he gets the post; if she hits him
with a skillet, the reporters write it humorously. If he dies, she gets his estate; if she dies, he gets
the funeral bill and her mother. And still women keep kicking about having some rights!—Ex.

HOME, SWEET HOME!

Mrs. Gaziny, the next morning: "I don’t want to criticize you, Clarence. As a husband you average up pretty well.
I wouldn't criticize you for the world. But when a man comes home at 2 in the morning with another
man's hat on, bursts into the front door singing ‘Hail, Columbia,’ puts his shoes into the umbrella jar, hangs his
coat on the gas-rack and goes to sleep on the bottom step, I begin to feel that he is open
to suspicion. Clarence—open to suspicion!"—Ex.

A REGULAR KICK.

"Say, you! What you goin’ t’ do about that leghorn hen you sold me for a layer?"
"What's th’ matter wit’ her?"
"Nothin'. only she don’t lay none; she’s learnin’ t’ crow, an’ she’s a darned old suffragette!"—Ex.

THE PRESIDENT’S WELCOME ABROAD.

Every American, whatever his political affiliations, should be proud of the way in which Mr. Wilson has thus far carried
himself in Europe and of the depth and genuineness of the popular demonstrations in his honor. His speeches, pertinent to
thevarious occasions on which they were delivered, have not only been phrased in the faultless English of which he is
a master, but they have throbbed with genuine appreciation of the warmth of feeling felt for America by those who
greeted him. They have rung true to the great ideals which he had already set forth in the state papers
that had prepared the way for his coming. It is worth something at this juncture in human affairs to have
the head of the most powerful nation on earth going from land to land and speaking words such as these:
"There is only one thing that can bind peoples together and that is common devotion to the right.” “Back of
us is that imperative yearning of the world to have all disturbing questions quieted, to have all threats against peace
silenced, to have just men come together everywhere for a common object.” Friendship is not a mere sentiment. Patriotism is
not a mere sentiment. It is based upon a principle, upon the principle that leads a man to give more
than he demands.” “I believe as this war has drawn nations temporarily together in a combination of physical force, we
shall now be drawn together in a combination of moral force that is irresistible. It is moral force as much
as physical force that has defeated the effort to subdue the world. Words have cut as deep as swords.” of
a just and enduring peace, but the substitution of a new international order for the old-time balance of power. We
expect such an outcome from the Paris conference and when it comes, we trust that the reactionary elements in the
American Senate will find it prudent to fall in with the desires of forward-looking people the world over. It was
the Senate of the United States which, by rejecting the treaties which John Hay so carefully formulated, sent one of
the noblest Secretaries of State which America has ever had into his later years with a disappointed and sorrowing heart.
We do not believe any such fate is in store for President Wilson.—Congregationalist.

THE COLLEGE SPORT.

A stranger on any college campus will behold a certain species roaming at large, which, at first glance, is often
taken for a picture, but if more closely examined will reveal life. This particular individual may be described as follows:
latest style hat, form-fitting suit and overcoat, cigarette in one corner of the mouth, and usually conspicuous horn-rimmed glasses on
his nose. He is found in every college and university, and he is as liable to be a senior as
a freshman, the only difference between the more advanced college sport and the new one being that the former is
beyond any last hope of redemption. He is entirely devoid of any college spirit, or any desire to mingle with
the “common herd” of students who are doing things in school athletics, politics, or any other activities, not to speak
of studies.

The soil of both America and Europe is fallow for the dropping of seedlike thoughts like these. The man who
sows them may come short of applying perfectly the principles involved to all the problems, domestic and foreign, with which
he has to deal. He may not always act with absolute consistency. But the world respects and honors a man
who sets forth in intelligible and appealing language the great new objectives toward which the nations must move if our
civilization is ever to become really Christian. That is why the throngs acclaim Mr. Wilson as he passes up the
Champs Elysees and along Pall Mall and through the streets of Manchester and Carlisle. They see in him something more
than a graceful and polished orator, an eminent scholar and teacher, and a keen, alert American; they see in Mr.
Wilson a man who was able to bring Americans of varying shades of opinion into the war practically as one
mighty unit. They see also in him one whose eyes were never so fixed upon the absolute necessity of a
conclusive victory that he could not see and consecrate himself and his fellow countrymen to the tasks of reconstruction. It
looks now as if his Scotch shrewdness had served Mr. Wilson well in going first to France and then to
England. Had he gone first to the latter country and perfected his understanding with Lloyd George, he might have been
accused of trying to overweight the conference with English and American influence, whereas by going first to the Continent, he
has shown an equal readiness to hear what the leaders of French and Italian opinion have to say on the
mooted question. It is from them rather than from Lloyd George that opposition is likely to come to Mr. Wilson's
belief that all nations should be included in the league and that the formation of such a league should be
one of the early and major concerns of the peace conference. But we do not expect to see dissension at
the peace table over the essential items in Mr. Wilson's program.

This noble man of ease is the college sport, and his bearing and attitude often inspire the casual observer to
seize a plank and pat him on the head. Ex.

INCONSISTENCY.

When a maiden is young and you call her a kitten, She smiles at that; But a few years later,
is she tickled to death when you Call her a cat? Ken.

THE JEWELRY GIRL.

She has ruby lips, eyes that shine like diamonds, pearly teeth and an emerald disposition, And her head—rarest ivory!—Ex. Ah!
her head is the

RIGHT AGAIN.

Said the plumber to the iceman, in August: “You robber!" Said the iceman to the plumber, in January: “You thief!"
Said the public: “Gentlemen, we agree with you both!”—Ex.

Sergeant (drilling awkward squad)— “Company! Attention company, lift up your left leg and hold it straight out in front of
you!” One of the squad held up his right leg by mistake. This brought his right-hand companion’s left leg and
his own right leg close together. The officer, seeing this, exclaimed angrily, “And who is that fellow over there holding
up both legs?”—Chicago News.

“There we stood, the tiger and myself, in the thick of the jungle, face to face!” “O Major, how perfectly
frightful it must have been for both of you!” —Passing Show.
