The DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1919

With the Alumni

Maj. J. Wilson MacConnell, who has been serving with Hospital No. 60, is en route to the United States. He will probably have to go to California for demobilization.

The marriage of Mr. Charles A. Monteastle, ex-'18, to Miss Charlotte Isabel Brambley, took place at noon, February 18, 1919, at Salisbury. Mr. Monteastle was at Davidson for three years. He is now holding an important position in the Bank of Lexington.

Capt. Wardlaw P. Thomson, '16, has returned to Albemarle on being mustered out of the service. He has accepted an important position in the Bank of Albemarle.

It will be of interest to many to learn that the following Davidson men have registered with the American University Union in Paris, London, and Rome: Capt. Leon Candler, ‘07, 328th Infantry, A.P.O. 742; Capt. H. L. Elliott, ‘19, 318th Field Artillery; Lieut. S. G. Love, '12, Medical Corps, St. Rignan; Pvt. John M. McBryde, ‘16, 74th Co., 6th Marines; Capt. H. M. Mack, ‘10, 18th Infantry, A.P.O. 749; and Lieut. W. H. Sloan, 307th Infantry.

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle has arrived in America from France. He was expected to reach Raleigh on Friday last.

H. A. Dishongh, '18, who has been doing chemical work at Saltville, Va., since May, has resigned and is now at his home in Monticello, Ark.

Rev. Leroy Tate Newland, ‘08, is pursuing graduate work at Princeton Seminary.

Guy Humphrey, '18, has received his discharge from the Marines and has entered college to take his M.A.

N.S. Richards, ex-'20, has a position with the Southern Power Company, Great Falls, S.C.

Lieut. Stuart Gilchrist, '15, recently returned from France and discharged, spent Saturday on the Hill.

ATTENTION! ALUMNI!

It is yet four months till Commencement, which will be held May 25-28 inclusive. But even now the college is looking forward toward Commencement and hopes among other expectations that this May will mark a Grand Reunion of Alumni. The Great War is just over and the part played in it by Davidson alumni and present students gives every alumnus a right to feel proud that the old college sent 800 men under the colors. Those who went overseas will return with long stories and tales of their adventures in France. Those who were so unfortunate as to have to remain for one cause or another on this side will wish to greet their more fortunate classmates and comrades and hear their wonderful experiences. The college looks forward to the proud greeting of all these sons who have sustained her name in one more struggle of our country. There have been a number of changes on the campus in recent years. Your Alma Mater wishes her alumni to revisit her and view these changes and the progress made. She wishes your support and plans for a Greater Davidson in the future.

This Commencement will mark a reunion of the classes of 1914, 1909, 1904, 1899, 1894, 1879, and 1874. It is hoped that the presidents and members of these various classes will get into active communication.

Heard Around Town

Mr. David Worth, who has recently returned from France, was on the Hill Sunday.and Mrs. Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va., are guests of Professor and Mrs. W. W. Wood. 

Mrs. J. W. McConnell was a visitor in Chester and Gastonia last week.

Dr. Martin and Dr. Arbuckle were in Atlanta last week to attend the Inter-Church Conference. Following this meeting, they attended the Laymen’s Missionary Conference.

Mrs. J. M. Wharey, after spending several months in Hendersonville, has arrived to spend the remainder of the winter with Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Mrs. Clifton Herrick was a visitor at the home of her father, Mr. M. W. Cranford, last week.

Mrs. P. S. Gilchrist and son, Lieut. Stuart Gilchrist, who has recently returned from overseas, motored over from Charlotte Saturday to see “Pat” Gilchrist, '22.

Miss McNair, of Raeford, N. C., with her hostess, Miss Mills, of Mooresville, was a visitor on the Hill last week.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Matthews, of Charlotte, motored up to spend Sunday with Mrs. Matthews’ parents, Dr. and Mrs. Miley.

Miss Hattie Thompson entertained the Book Club on Valentine’s Day. The refreshments and decorations were appropriate to the occasion.

Miss Mary Richards, of Statesville, spent Sunday with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Richards.

Miss Grace James is visiting her father, in Cheraw, S. C.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle has recently returned from overseas.

Lieut. W. M. Hall, ‘20, has returned to college and has taken up his work with his class. He has been stationed at Dickinson College.

First Lieut. Richard G. Dennard left Monday for Camp Wadsworth, where he expects to receive his discharge. Lieutenant Dennard was the commanding officer of the S. A. T. C. unit at Davidson.

NOTICE RECEIVED OF REID CRANFORD'S DEATH

Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford, of Davidson, have been officially notified of the death of their son, Reid Cranford, ex-'19, in France, July 19, 1918. For several weeks before his death Reid had been in the front line trenches, and participated in the battles of Chateau Thierry, Belleau Wood, Soissons, and other lesser battles. He was wounded on July 19 and died later the same day. Reid is fondly remembered by his fellow students and the townspeople of Davidson; and the hearts of all go out to his family in their truly great bereavement.

Communication with the other members of these classes, and thereby ensure the most complete class reunions the college has ever had. This Commencement, it is hoped, will be the Grand Reunion of all Alumni!

S. T. M. Smart, Stylish Suits for Young Men

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the foremost makers of Men's Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR

ED. MELLON CO.

See me if you are looking for the very BEST HOME MADE CAKES, PIES, CANDY & SANDWICHES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES, CHEWING GUM & COLD DRINKS

GEO. H. BEALL, JR.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS BALLS, MITTS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES

Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS

L. B. LONG

HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES

EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT

CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY