“Up From Slavery” Gives Excellent Discourse on LITERARY NEWS

Some New Facts Revealed in Life History of Booker T. Washington Outlined

A vital question which confronts every Southerner is the Negro Problem. The Civil War marked the beginning of a new hope for the black race and it is an obligation of the white race to see that they fulfill their hope in the right direction. This great question is a study which has taken the time and labor of many altruistic minds and we, who believe ourselves dedicated to service for humanity, must not let any opportunity slip by. “Up From Slavery” is a short book which any student could read in several hours. It is the life history of the greatest colored educator America has ever seen—Booker T. Washington. The book starts when he was a child on a plantation in Virginia and tells the story of slavery in a simple and wholehearted manner. After the Civil War, he entered Hampton Institute. Having gained the rudiments of an education, he went South and taught school. Then came the crowning deed of his life—the founding of the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute in Alabama. The growth of this institution has been remarkable both from the standpoint of buildings and equipment and the great amount of good done. Booker T. Washington rose from a slave to the foremost educator among the colored people in the world. Harvard University was the first to recognize this fact when it conferred an honorary degree on him. He gave a notable address at the Atlanta Exposition which brought letters of commendation from all parts of the United States. President Grover Cleveland was foremost in congratulating him. Such a character should be studied with the problem to which he has shown a good and reasonable solution. Let us learn the lesson that “every persecuted individual and race should get much consolation out of the great human law, which is universal and eternal, that merit, no matter under what skin found, is in the long run recognized and rewarded.” Read “Up From Slavery.”

PROGRAM OF LITERARY SOCIETIES NOV. 1.

Debate: Resolved, That the Daylight Saving Plan Should be Continued.

Phi Society
Election of Marshalls and Officers.

Senior Eu Society
Debate
Affirmative: Summers, A. C. Gunn, W. E. Sanders, C. B. Long Richards, J. M. Booth, W. R.
Declamations
Negative: McAlpine Lowry

Junior Eu Society
Debate
Affirmative: Logan, G. S. Mosely
Negative: Meacham McCutcheon Mauze McNeil Morris McKaney Morris
Declamations

Phi Society
The sudden slamming of a window interrupted a good criticism of one of the best meetings the Phis have had this year. According to the critic, several of the men are rapidly coming into their own and had not the window slammed and scared Calhoun speechless, he might have had more to say. The debate on the restriction of emigration was very good, the speakers at times waxing eloquent and arguing vehemently. The affirmative was represented by L. L. Wilson and McGeachy, with the assistance of W. C. Smith, who heartily endorsed his colleagues’ statements and reiterated all their arguments. The negative was upheld by G. N. Neel, G. D. Sample, and F. W. Smith, who also put up a good argument. During the discussion, McGeachy informed the society that Jefferson Davis wrote the constitution of the United States. The information was also imparted by F. W. Smith that only the educated class was now allowed to enter this country since they must all pass examinations. These examinations consisted of knowing the months of the year and the days of the week. Coyte Hunter gave an oration on Buthevism, Bowlshevickism, and Bullshewicks. This incomprehensible subject was elucidated remarkably well and all the Phis now understand it perfectly.

Ogden
F. V. Long gave an oration on the Winning of the War. He laid the blame on the Allies’ convoy system. The extemporaneous debate on, Resolved, That the college ring should be worn only by college graduates, was both snappy and interesting. Freeman upheld the affirmative and McLeod the negative. The decision went to the negative. There will be no program at society this week; the meeting will be devoted to the election of officers and marshals. This year the chief marshal comes from the Philanthropic society.

BLUE PENCIL CLUB INITIATES NEW MAN
The regular meeting of the Blue Pencil club was held last Wednesday night in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 30, 1919

Who’s Who On The Campus
(This Column is Devoted to Giving Facts Worth Mentioning Concerning Some of the Men in Our Present Student Body)

P. B. CARWILE, ’20.
P. B. Carwile was trained at Camp Wadsworth, in Spartanburg, S. C., for two months. He was then sent to Camp Stewart, in Newport News, and was there about two weeks. He embarked from Newport News on the 19th of September, 1918, and landed in Brest on the 29th of the same month. He was not at the front but was on the point of being ordered to go when the armistice was signed. When he entered the service, he was a private in the Signal Platoon of Headquarters Company, 55 Pioneers. This company of infantry was disbanded on November 1, and he was unassigned until December 6. Then he was assigned to Company D, 106 Infantry, 27th Division, as a first-class private. He with 10,000 others sailed from Brest on the 28th of February and landed at Hoboken on the 6th of March. The Leviathan was the largest of the troop ships and brought most of the 27th home. The 27th division, General O’Ryan commanding, was New York’s own and they trained a month for the big parade in New York. He was discharged April 4 at Camp Lee, in Petersburg, Va.

C. G. BROWN, ’21.
C. G. Brown, a corporal in the First Corps Artillery Park, Truck Company No. 6, was stationed at Camp Jackson, in Columbia, S. C., for two months. He embarked from Hoboken and landed at Brest, May 30, 1918. He went to the front on July 15. He took part in the Champagne-Marne defensive, the Aisne-Marne offensive, the fight in the Chateau Thierry Sector, the Oise-Aisne offensive, the fight around the Verdun sector and the Meuse-Argonne offensive. He was with the army of occupation at Coblenz, Germany. He left Brest on July 22 and landed at Newport News on August 3, 1919. He went from there to Camp Lee, at Petersburg, Va., and was discharged.

Town News
Miss Sarah Lingle, who is a student at Salem College, Winston-Salem, spent the weekend with her parents.

THRIFT AS A COLLEGE STUDENT'S PROBLEM
The war demanded that every American save money and students in educational institutions were not excepted. The Liberty Bond and War Savings Campaign showed that even the college student who is self-supporting could set aside a small margin for saving and investment. After-war economic conditions are demanding a continuance of war economies, and universal saving and safe investment on the part of all our people. Shall the college student have a part in this after-war program? At first thought one would say that the following program proposes: That students, as a matter of national service as well as personal advantage, work during vacations and during part of the school year to reduce the financial burden on their parents. That every college student should save a minimum of a dollar a week during his entire college course. That these savings should be funded as the nucleus for the start-in-life fund for use after graduation.It is inexpedient for the college student to set aside part of his current money for savings, but a closer examination of the student’s own best interests, regarded from the long-time point of view, and of his fundamental relation to the national economic crisis through which we are now going, has led thoughtful advisers of the Treasury department's savings division to urge that the present opportunity for regular saving and investment in government securities be put before the college students of the country, as was the need for war savings. The Treasury department is offering the 25c Thrift stamp, $5 War Savings stamp, and the $100 and $1,000 Treasury Savings certificates, as a means of popular saving. It is also urging the continued purchase of Liberty bonds now held by banks as a means of reducing the expanded credit which is partly responsible for constantly increasing prices. College students are urged to participate in Government savings primarily because the country needs a rapid increase in its savings fund and because the practices of regular saving carry personal economic benefits so fundamental and lasting that college students as future leaders will wish to share in this movement. Many a college student has earned and saved money before going to college and during his four years or more of academic and professional training has got entirely out of his habits of thrift and so starts his business or professional career heavily handicapped by the weight of unthrifty standards taken on during college life. The college student who is working his way through college and paying his own expenses in whole or in part, should set aside regularly a sum for savings even if it be so little as 25¢ a week, the cost of a U. S. Thrift stamp. That students plan their personal expenditures with a personal budget now recognized as the most practical instrument for promoting wise expenditure in government, in business and in personal finance. That students discuss in debating clubs, fraternity clubs and other organizations the relation of personal thrift to business efficiency and success in life, and the relation of individual savings to the country’s capital fund, and to present economic problems. That student organizations should as a national after-war service organize a public discussion of the economic problems related to thrift, savings and investment, seeking particularly a statement of their practical bearing on the reconstruction problem and of the personal responsibility which the college student has during college and afterwards, for personal thrift and for its promotion in the community, to the end that colleges and all higher institutions which in the work and save program for the bigger and better America.

Dr. Shewmake, the new English professor, was initiated into the club. After this initiation, the regular program was carried out which was a study of magazines. The following magazines were studied and discussed: American, Atlantic Monthly, Scribner’s, and Everybody’s.

Rev. Dr. Miley, Synodical Evangelist of South Carolina, is here on a visit to his family. At the close of the meeting refreshments were served.

Lieut. Commander R. C. Reed, of the United States Navy, and his bride, were guests of his brother, Professor Reed, on last Thursday.

* * *

The regular debate was followed by an extemporaneous debate between Bitzer and Mahood on the subject, “Resolved, That Seniors should be given special privileges.” Bitzer said that it would give the senior more time for college activities and that thus it would benefit both them and the college. Mahood said that seniors have enough privileges anyhow, and that the other classes deserved special privileges as much as the seniors did. The decision favored the affirmative.

The Eumenean society decided that immigration ought to be stopped for the next five years. The affirmative put up a well-prepared and excellently co-ordinated debate. J. K. Price led with perhaps the best speech of the evening, showing that we cannot absorb the immigration. Then Martin, with livid face and staring eyes, gave the house Poe's “Tell-Tale Heart.” The critic thought his ‘make-up” was better than his ability to make up forgotten sentences and keep the speech going. Matthews then gave an excellent oration on “Ambition,” citing Carnegie, Burr, and Livingstone as examples. The negative debates were much more amusing than convincing. Manning lulled himself to sleep with the all-important question, “Who will do the work?” McIlwaine then favored the house with an exquisitely phrased and very daintily gesticulated little appeal for new blood from across the seas—blue blood—sturdy, virile, manly blood. Lis- ton cracked his heels together, threw back his shoulders and, in a ringing voice, demanded to know why, if the noble state of Georgia could have been founded by jail-birds—just why, now, couldn't the U. S. be run by Reds?

The house voted to continue the old form of debating, without using any time on extemporaneous ones. P. D. Miller was received into the society, and B. B. Brittenhart was given an “honorable discharge.” Every man’s your friend while the clothes selling season is on.

Mr. Miles left with the team for Virginia to see the game and will return soon with his wife.

* * *

Miss Smith, from Charlotte Courthouse, Va., is visiting her sister, Mrs. M. M. Grey.

* * *

The Book Lovers’ club was delightfully entertained by Mrs. J. M. Douglas on Friday afternoon. Prof. A. Currie made an interesting talk on the Reconstruction Problems in the United States.

* * *

Prof. W. W. Wood is now occupying a residence on Concord road, which was recently purchased by the college.

* * *

The recent death of Miss Ina Holler was deeply felt by her large circle of friends. She was a student in the college in 1903-05 and was a woman of strong Christian character and ability. She was buried in the Mt. Zion cemetery, at Cornelius.

LIBRARY NEWS.

There is now on display at the Library bulletin-board four pictures of battle scenes in France, brought back by Coyte Hunter, ’20. The scenes on display are A View of Coblenz, Germany Under American Flag, The Observation Post From Which Kaiser Viewed Battle of Verdun, Ruins of Molencourt in Argonne Sector and Ruins of Esnes in Meuse-Argonne Sector.

Program Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Nov. 3rd, 4th and 5th

OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
FOUR PALS—Singing and Talking Comedians introducing Something Different.
CHARLES and MADELINE DUNBAR—Comedy Novelty Oddity, “ANIMALFUNOLOGY.”
PREVOST and GOULET in a Vaudeville Melange.
PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
THE GERALDS—Gypsy Serenaders, playing thirty-four mandolins at one time, and other instruments.
JAMES F. KELLY and EMMA POLLOCK—The International Comedy Couple.

Program Thursday, Friday and Saturday, November 6th, 7th and 8th

OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra, Direction of A. J. Marshall.
PATHE NEWS—ROLAND COMEDY.
CHARLES EDINBURY—Clever Gymnast.
ED LORD and MARGIE FULLER—Presenting “Bits of This and That.”
ANDRU LEWIS-HELEN NORTON—Promoters of Cheerfulness, suggest “IN THOSE DAYS,” a Humorous Dialogue.
FRANK MULLANE—Musical Scales and Humorous Tales.
SIX VENETIAN GYPSIES—“Frolicking in Gypsy Camp.”

Tennis is a rich man’s game. Play it and get rich.