The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Happenings About Town

Miss Frances Overton, of Salisbury, spent Easter with her aunt, Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Mr. L. White, of Statesville, visited at the home of Professor Currie last week.

Miss Virginia Atkins and Miss Elsie Palmer were the Easter guests of Miss Eloise Martin for the past weekend.

Mrs. M. A. Henderson has announced the marriage of her daughter, Miss Annie Lee Henderson, to Mr. Edward Kneeland Thomas,
of Savannah, Ga. The wedding will take place May 14th at Davidson. Miss Henderson has been a trained nurse in
Charlotte.

Miss Winifred Potts, of Queens College, spent the weekend with her parents here.

Miss Essie Jetton has been brought home and is slowly improving in health.

Corp. Lewis E. Johnston, 120th Infantry Machine Gun Company of the 30th Division, has returned from overseas. He won the
distinguished service cross at the battle of Belencourt and was also cited for bravery at the battle of St. Quentin.

Among other Davidson boys recently returned from France are: Robert H. Harding, Fred Johnston, and Corp. Harry S. Caldwell of
Hospital Unit O; George Christie, of 105th Engineers, 30th Division; and Russell Shaver, of Trench Mortar Battery, 81st Division.

Lieutenant Malcolm Rumple, who has received his discharge from the army and accepted a position in Charlotte, spent Easter with
his mother.

CHRIST'S PRAYER IS STUDY OF VOLUNTEER BAND.

Roberts led the last meeting of the Volunteer Band in a study of the prayer Christ taught his disciples. There
are two great divisions: God's glory and man’s good. Under the last, the three petitions are for provision, pardon, and
protection. Protection does not mean absolute exemption from temptation, but strength to overcome in trial. The three temptations of Christ
in the wilderness illustrate his teaching on this subject. All of his prayers were unselfish. The plural pronoun “we” and
“our,” used in prayer, include all. Every great revival of the Holy Spirit comes through prayer for others. Of course,
one must be right himself to have power in prayer, but he really prays for himself only that he may
be used to help others.

MINISTERIAL BANDS ELECT OFFICERS FOR COMING YEAR

At the last meeting of the Ministerial Band, there were twenty-three men present. The following officers were elected to serve
for the coming year: L. G. Calhoun, president; W. P. Cummings, vice president; and C. E. Cunningham, secretary. An enjoyable
talk was rendered by C. F. Allen, ex-’19. He chose as his subject matter the first twelve verses of the
third chapter of Proverbs. He brought out the ideas that this passage deals with the works of God and that
we should trust God with all our heart, not a part, but all. A decision must be made as to
whether we will serve God with all our heart or with only a part. The meeting was very interesting and
it was enjoyed by all present.

DR. MARTIN'S CONDITION BETTER; NOW AT HOME.

Dr. Martin's condition is so improved that he has been discharged from the hospital and is at home for a
few days before he goes to Mississippi to recuperate. In all probability, he will not be able to assume his
work again before commencement, but the student body hopes that he will soon recover his strength and be back at
his office by next fall.

D. C. BULLETIN HAS BEEN REVISED TO DATE.

The Davidson College Bulletins have been received at Mr. Jackson's office. The bulletin has a great many changes and one
or two additions, in comparison to the 1918 issue, which will make it a much better advertiser for Davidson. The
new catalogue shows an increase of 58 students over the enrollment of the last collegiate year, and with a list
of two hundred prospective students, and with such a magazine to advertise, Davidson should at least double this increase next
year. The catalogue shows an illustrated view of the college, which includes four proposed buildings. The historic sketch is also
revised from last year, and two new courses have been added to the curriculum. These are: Accounting and Business Methods,
under F. L. Jackson; Military Science and Tactics, under Lieut. Col. A. H. Mueller, U.S. Infantry. Another change is the
addition of one unit, for entrance, to the fourteen which heretofore has been the case. An account of the S.
A. T. C.is given, in addition to the regular college roll, with the officers and non-commissioned officers and rosters by
companies.

ABOUT COMMENCEMENT.

All the particulars of our commencement have not been worked out yet, but how does this brief forecast sound, fellows?
Dr. Mauze, of Huntington, W. Va., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon; Dr. McCracken, president of Lafayette College, the annual address;
also a good “Y” speaker will be here whose name will be announced later. A special effort is being made
among the alumni to bring a larger number than usual together this year. Several classes have already announced reunions, notably
'14, ‘09, ‘04, and ‘99. The return of ‘99 is to be especially big on account of this being the
twentieth anniversary of the graduation of this class. The trustees are expecting to have an unusually important meeting, and doubtless
it will be well attended. They have to select a new English professor, and determine several other matters of far-reaching
consequence. Sometime during commencement a memorial service will be held for the Davidson heroes who died in the army. This
program has not been completed, though it is known there will be a memorial address by a distinguished speaker, special
music and other features appropriate to the occasion. Two other noteworthy occasions will be the exercises of the Senior class
in presenting their class gift, and the carnival the student organization is planning in lieu of the reception usually attended
by societies and fraternities. Commencement, beginning on Sunday, will last through Wednesday this year. Everybody is invited to the big
time.

Thrifty Idea.

“She is a very proud beauty. Last night we parted in anger.”
“Going to make up?”
“I guess so. But I think I'll stay mad about a week and spend some of my money on myself.”—Louisville
Courier-Journal.

SUNDAY SCHOOL BOOMING BIBLE CLASSES SLACKING.

The Bible classes this week were very good considering the number of boys that were off the hill for Easter.
It would help the attendance a great deal if every floor would have a meeting. The first floors of Georgia
and Watts have not had meetings for several Sundays. There was a total attendance of 90 with 32 from Rumple,
18 from South Chambers, 15 from North Chambers, 13 from Watts and 12 from Georgia. The Sunday schools were up
to their usual standard with 18 teachers and attendance of 223. There were 4 teachers at Brawley's and 54 pupils,
4 teachers at Cornelius and 50 pupils, 6 teachers at Caldwell and 41 pupils, 3 teachers at the mill and
33 pupils, 1 teacher at Shearer chapel and 25 pupils. There was no meeting at Oak Grove as the superintendent
was absent.

THINGS HARD TO KEEP.

Satisfied
Your roommate quiet
Out of debt
A girl
Money
Above passing
A date
Temper
Step with the guide.
—Exchange.

An eminent Scotch preacher was trying to explain to an old lady the meaning of the Scriptural expression, “Take up
thy bed and walk.” He informed her that the bed was simply a mat or rug easily taken up and
carried away. “Na, na,” was her reply, “I canna believe that. The bed was a regular four-poster. There would be
no miracle in walking away wi’ a bit o’ mat or rug on your back.”

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

Don’t Throw It Away
Make that old Suit Look New, by having it Dry Cleaned by
The Ben-Vonde Co.
DYERS AND CLEANERS
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
E. N. BOOKER, Agent

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US
Charlotte, N. C.

Farm Produce
219 S. Tryon St.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
Dunlap Hats
E. & W. Metric Shirts
Hirsh Wickwire & Brandegee Kincaid Clothing

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Bought and Sold

Pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have
the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas.
M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit.
CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
Charlotte, N. C.
