The DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1919

DR. RICHARDS DECLARES A VISION IS NEEDED

The “Y” vesper service last Sunday was conducted by E. G. Lilly, as Mr. Miles was off on the trip with the basketball team. After a short talk on the coming evangelistic campaign by Dr. C. F. Myers, of Greensboro, Lilly introduced Dr. Richards, who made the talk of the evening.

Dr. Richards chose as his text Acts 26:19: “Wherefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision.” It was this heavenly vision that enabled Paul to do the wonderful work that he did; and it is only by having a vision that we will be able to be a power for Christ in the world. Alexander and Caesar conquered the world around the Mediterranean with the aid of their armies. Paul converted, directly or indirectly, the world around the Mediterranean, with no army at his back. He laid a foundation of a permanent empire much greater than either Alexander or Caesar dreamed of. Paul accomplished this because he was an indefatigable worker, because he had a wonderful personality, and, above all, because he had a vision.

Paul received his vision on the way to Damascus. It was strengthened during his stay in Arabia. And it received its final impetus when he returned to Jerusalem and talked with those who knew Christ personally. This vision that Paul received was the power that moved his life. The world still needs the man with a vision. A light from heaven is not a necessary element of a vision. Paul's vision was not of that, but of Christ, the Lord of the redeemed man, and the Saviour of the lost man. It is necessary to have this vision continually before us, to become the dynamic force moving our lives if we are to do our duty in the world.

NEW PLAN FOLLOWED IN POLITY CLUB

The Polity Club had a most interesting meeting on the night of Friday, February 14. The topics under discussion were the part England and Turkey took in the great war, and the new constitution of the League of Nations read at the Peace Conference.

W. T. Dunlap gave a comprehensive outline of the many ways in which England did more than her share of the fighting. She furnished the all-important navy that kept Germany bottled up, and convoyed the soldiers of the United States safely to France. She put a splendid army in the field, and took charge of the situation in the Holy Land as well as holding the Hun in his tracks in Flanders.

W. M. Currie gave his views of what England hoped to get out of the war. He stated that England had little hope of getting much money or territory as a payment of Germany's indemnity, but had already attained the greatest object of her conflict, her peace of mind and freedom from German attacks.

N. Y. Pharr and Emery Flinn followed these discourses with some statements regarding the entrance of Turkey into the fight. She did so because Germany influenced her to believe that she was winning the war, and Turkey wanted to get on the side which was expected to be victorious. Remarks concerning the Peace Conference were next on the program and were found to be instructive and entertaining. The next meeting will be held on Friday, February 28.

Lieut. J. W. Stuart Gilchrist, '15, was on the Hill Saturday. He hasJust recently returned from overseas. His brother “Pat” is in the class of ’22.

— EXCHANGES —

The Furman Hornet is very happy over the baseball prospects for this season. They have a number of old men back and three letter men from Elon. They are counting on making a strong bid for the state championship.

The Senior class at Furman University had a supper one night last week.

* * *

The basketball team of Guilford suffered four defeats this week. The teams played were the Durham Y.M.C.A., Trinity, Wake Forest, and State A. & E.

Washington and Lee is active in other lines than athletics. The Ring Tum Phi announces a debate to be held with Trinity. They are also trying to arrange a triangular debate with Johns Hopkins and University of N.C. The basketball team has been making an enviable record this year.

The Cadet brings the news that the cornerstone of the new Academic building was laid last week. The Masons had charge of the ceremony.

Other exchanges received this week were: The Flat Hat, Winthrop Weekly News, The Tech, The Orange and Black, The Focus, Cumtux.

BRIG.-GEN. R. D. JOHNSTON

Brig.-Gen. Robert D. Johnston, aged 83, died at his country home, Whitepost, near Winchester, Va., on February 1. As General Johnston was, for two years, President of the Board of Trustees, and widely known throughout this section of the country, the foregoing will be received by the Davidson alumni and friends with a feeling of deep regret.

The General entered the Confederate army as a private, at the age of 28. He advanced rapidly to head of his brigade, and had the honor of being the youngest general in the Confederate army. The courage which he is reputed to have displayed in the service of his country was manifest throughout his long life. After the war ended, he settled in Charlotte, and established the law firm of Jones & Johnston. It was while located in Charlotte that General Johnston was actively connected with Davidson.

R. S. Johnson Co.
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Quality and Service

Who Wants a Poor Thing Right on Time? Who Wants a FINE Thing TOO LATE?

The best printing obtainable and a service just as good. We give both quality and service and charge for both. The service is generally as valuable as the effectiveness of the work done. Let us convince you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE (Phone 643)
NORTH CAROLINA

T. C. STONE, Representative

We Feature All Military Publications
And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts in North Carolina
BROCKMANN’S
210 South Tryon St., CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

Spalding Ice Skates For Every Member of the Family
Toboggans, Skis, Snowshoes, Hockey Supplies, Etc.
Catalogue on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

25 CENTS EACH
CLUETT, PEABODY & Co. Inc. Makers

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited

For information and catalogues write the president
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling