THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

Dr. John P. Munroe, of Charlotte, came up last week for Rally day at the Mill Sunday school, and made
an interesting and pleasing address. The town welcomes Mrs. N. W. Wood, and young son, Robert Hancock, who arrived from
West Va.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.
DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

GENTLEMEN
Send your next batch of films to CUSHMAN’S STUDIO Charlotte, N. C.
EXPERT SERVICE
H. A. HILL, Agt. 7 Rumple

Better Service, Better Work
Model Steam Laundry Co., Charlotte.
Laundry called for Friday nights.
W. C. & G. N. NEEL, Agents No. 30 and 26 Chambers

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
South Wing
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Postoffice

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

Devotional News
Have Dr. Johnson’s Sermons Sunday School at Shearer Chapel Benefited the Students?
Dr. Miles Gives Forcible Address On This Subject

Mr. Miles addressed the meeting of the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday night. His direct and forceful talk was
provocative of deep thought on a very timely subject. The attendance was about 300, which is considered a fair number.
Reading the last few verses of Luke 6, Mr. Miles called particular attention to the parable of the houses built
on the rock, and on the sand. Since Dr. Johnson’s meeting, the thought of this parable had been often in
his mind, and he showed that it contained an important lesson for Davidson students. We at Davidson have been either
strengthened or weakened by Dr. Johnson’s meetings. All were benefited at the time, for it was helpful to stand and
declare our purpose to reconsecrate our lives; but for some, this reconsecration was not genuine. These men are worse off
than they were before. If though, we go away and do, our lives are being built on a rock. Then,
this principle was applied to different aspects of our student life. Are we building our college work on a foundation
of honest effort: will it stand after Christmas or will it be swept away by exams? Does profanity go as
easily as it did before? Do the pictures in our rooms stand in the light of our reconsecration? It is
not enough to hear, we must do, and do not in our own strength, but with the help of Christ.
Then our lives will be on the rock, firm and immovable in the flood.

Bible Classes.
Rumple leads the battalion while Georgia brings up the rear. But some say that they were too sleepy to come
out. Very well, but will you be too sleepy to get out when Gabriel sounds off? Let’s not let such
things as football bother us in these things, but go to Bible class whether or not. For the past Sunday
the attendance was after this manner:

Rumple: Present. Pct.
East Side 24 85
West Side 20 77
Total Rumple 44 81

Watts:
First Floor 17 59
Second Floor 7 100
Third Floor 15 87
Total 37 80

Chambers:
North Wing 29 81
South Wing 23 79
Total 51 80

Georgia:
First Floor 4 53
Second Floor 6 56
Third Floor 3 50
Total Georgia 13 53

Louisiana 8 70
Grand Total 153 70.4

Mrs. N.C. Shewmake is spending the winter with her son, Professor Shewmake.

Flourishing.
Shearer Church is a four-mile walk from Davidson (and six miles back, according to those who walk it every Sunday).
Not that they mind it, for every one of the nine men who go from Davidson is intensely interested in
the Sunday school work at Shearer Church. It is undoubtedly the best Sunday school going, and the best bunch of
fellows teaching it, according to the statement of the teachers themselves. There is a definitely organized church, with services every
other Sunday, and Sunday school every Sunday. Mr. R. G. Patterson, who lives in the vicinity of the church, is
the superintendent. A. M. Mitchell is leader of the teachers from the college, and it is due largely to his
earnest efforts that the work there is so prosperous. He also has charge of a class of young ladies. J.
P. Price leads the singing and teaches.the Men’s Bible class. R. R. McIlwaine has been given the ladies’ class, while
F. B. McGukin, B. L. Britenbirt, and W. F. Beck instruct the younger pupils. Several of the Davidson men stay
for the church services at night, taking their meals at homes in the community. Plans are under way to change
the evening services into a Christian Endeavor society. There is a system now in use by which cards are mailed
every week to all absentees, and in the future, this will be extended to any prospective members whose names may
be handed in. There is at present an average attendance of from 65 to 85 every Sunday. Improvements are constantly
being made in the different departments of the Sunday school and Shearer church will soon be able to compare favorably
with any city organization.

Worldwide Prohibition Boosted by Dr. E. V. Claypool.

The college received a rare treat Thursday night when Dr. E. V. Claypool, of the Anti-Saloon League, delivered an address
on Worldwide Prohibition. He said that the only way to keep prohibition was to extend it, for if the brewers
became established in other countries they might eventually try to work their way back. For this reason, the Anti-Saloon League
is sending a number of men to Europe and South America to help in the work there. An interesting feature
was the method used for working up a crowd. Tickets were given to each grade of the school to be
distributed through the town. These tickets were presented at the door and counted by grades. The fourth and seventh grades
tied and drew for the prize. At the noon recess Monday, Dr. Richards presented the beautiful four by seven flag
which Dr. Claypool had offered as a reward. The system worked excellently, developing a great deal of rivalry among the
school children.

Mrs. J. P. Paisley attended the Angle-Vaughn wedding in Greensboro on the 12th and reports that the Davidson boys present
were the chief ornaments of the occasion.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at the lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection
complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s
advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?
W. J. RODDEY & COMPANY, Gen'l Agents
Rock Hill, S. C.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS
I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for
and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.
Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

ONE GRADUATE
Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training
School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life
and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.”
We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and
then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a
result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.
Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS
That you can buy at the DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO.
Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and Fixtures.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary
and at your service. He wants your business.

Athletic Sport is the royal road to good health. We furnish every essential for Football, Soccer, Basketball, Hockey, Skating, and
the Gym. KEEP FIT
ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42d St.
New York City
Write for our new catalog.
Agents Wanted where we are not Represented
