— & & AdAad

DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VI.

WILDCATS GET NEW SUITS.

Last Thursday saw the Wildcats shed their old skins and doll up in brand new grey ones. Among those who were fortunate in getting new suits were Johnson, Ratchford, Boswell, Sample, Cassell, Miller, Spann, Richards, Miley, Clark, Currie, Murray. These new suits have the insignia on the sleeve and a stripe up the breeches seams, which give them a very pleasing effect.

New Era In Y. M. C. A. Work Inaugurated

Every Effort Being Made to Secure Permanent Secretary.

The “Y” vesper service last Sunday was doubly interesting, as it included not only the first meeting under the new cabinet, but also an important talk by Dr. Arbuckle. Dr. Arbuckle, on getting a “Y” secretary here next year, said that he was glad to hear that the students had already expressed their desire to have a “Y” secretary and that secretary to be Mr. Miles, if possible. But we cannot expect to get a secretary here without having an organization of directors that would handle the financial end of the Y. M. C. A. in a business-like way. This next year we will have unusually large expenses in order to get the proper equipment. The movie machine, the piano, and the reading room furniture will have to be bought if we wish to keep them. A board of directors is necessary to handle this. This board of control, or board of directors, is to be composed of two faculty members who will hold their office for two years, and two faculty members elected for one year. From the student body, there will be chosen two members from the rising Senior class, to hold office for one year, and two members from the rising Junior class, to hold office for two years.

The election of officers to these positions was held immediately after Dr. Arbuckle’s talk. The following men were elected: From the faculty, Dr. Arbuckle and Coach Fetzer, for two years; Professor Reed and Mr. Jackson, for one year; from the student body, S. H. Askew and W. B. Sullivan, from the rising Senior class, and J. R. Boulware and L. B. Schenck, from the rising Junior class.

After the elections, Dwight Chalmers, the new Y. M. C. A. president, addressed the Y. M. C. A. in behalf of the new cabinet. Conditions in Davidson since nineteen-seventeen, said Chalmers, have been different from the preceding years, especially last fall. The work of the Y. M. C. A. has also been affected along with the college. But it has a splendid opportunity now before it in the building up of campus life and ideals as the college returns to its normal status. Just what, someone may ask, is the sphere of usefulness of the Y. M. C. A.? It gives personal inspiration and power. It is a school for the study of social and missionary problems and the problems of life. It has (Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Making A Great “Rep”

Royally Entertained at Statesville and Hickory.

The Glee Club left Monday morning, March 30, for its second trip of this term, giving a performance at Mitchell College, in Statesville, Monday night, and at Hickory the following night. Upon arriving at Statesville Monday morning the members of the club were placed in various homes of the city to be entertained by the young ladies, which was most royally done, and, to say the least, was greatly appreciated by the entire club. A reception was given in the afternoon to the members and a few returned overseas soldiers, by the girls of the college. This proved to be a very enjoyable occasion for all. After such a royal reception and entertainment the boys felt that they must make the concert go that night, and well they did. The concert was one of the best given this year. Playing before a good audience the Davidson boys acquitted themselves most admirably. This program was the same that was staged on the last trip with the exception of two or three new songs.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 9, 1919.

Burrow’s Delivery Too Much For Wildcats

His Support Poor.

Last Saturday afternoon the Davidson “Red Soxs” were defeated by the delegation from A. & E., at Gastonia, 4 to 0. The condition of the field made it difficult to distinguish between a baseball game and a mud battle. As the score will indicate, the game was featured chiefly by a pitchers’ battle. “Buck” Currie pitched a steady game, allowing only four hits and walking but two men. Sad to relate, Burrows, the left-handed twirler for A. & E., obtained the Wildcats’ “Angora” from the first. In the third inning, Cassell singled, being the only hit for Davidson, stole second, but perished there. The fielding of the Wildcats was very erratic, thus accounting for the four-hit, four-run game of the opponents. In the first inning Burrows, for A. & E., doubled to left field, was advanced to third on an out, and scored on a sacrifice fly. In the second inning, with a man on third, a fly ball to right field brought in the second run.Run for A. & E. in the third and seventh innings. "Say She Does," and "The Little Ships Come Sailing Home," seemed to be the biggest chorus hits of the evening. McQueen staged a very amusing act with his guitar and a pair of attached pliers in the stringed trio. This, together with Shields' solo and Cathey's comedy sketch, were not far behind in bringing down the house, each calling for several encores.

The second concert was given at Hickory, in the High School auditorium, Tuesday night. Performing before a fairly good audience, the boys upheld their good "rep" by rendering a very entertaining program. After the concert, a reception was given to the members of the club by the young people of the town. This also proved to be a delightful affair.

Those making the trip were: H. B. Brown, C. R. Vance, W. A. Freeman, A. M. Inman, S. M. Gilbert, H. B. Dendy, C. I. Mathews, J. H. McKeithen, B. E. Shields, J. W. Phillips.

Davidson's infield gave them the last two runs. Score by innings:
Davidson .000 000 000—0
A. & E. .111 000 110—4

Batteries: Currie and Johnson, Burrows and Johnson.

THE HILL.

Maj. Edgar C. Haines, Medical Corps, with his wife and baby, were visitors of Colonel Mueller Sunday. Major Haines was camp surgeon at Camp Greene. He left here Monday for Camp Dix, N.J. He has seen extensive service on the Mexican border and in the Philippines.

T. M. Hill, '16, and M. R. Adams, '16, of Statesville, were visitors on the Hill Sunday.

VISITORS ON HILL.

I. Apperson, of Winston, and P. G. D. Sample, D. P. McGeachy, M. H. Brown, of Chadbourne, both ex-'24, A. Thomas, Carl Cathey, and J. J. Love spent the weekend on the Hill.

COMPLETE BASEBALL SCHEDULE.

April 4—Oak Ridge...............At Home.
April 5—A. & E..................At Gastonia.
April 14—Elon...................At Home.
April 15—Elon...................At Home.
April 17—Univ. of Virginia.......At Charlotte.
April 18—Trinity................At Home.
April 21—Univ. of N.C............At Winston-Salem.
April 22—Elon...................At Elon College.
April 23—Elon...................At Burlington.
April 24—Trinity................At Durham.
April 25—A. & E.................At Raleigh.
April 26—A. & E.................At Raleigh.
April 28—Wake Forest............At Wake Forest.
April 29—Trinity................At Durham.
May 6—Wake Forest.............At Charlotte.
May 9—Univ. of S.C..............At Chester.
May 10—Univ. of S.C.............At Home.

CLASS BASEBALL SCHEDULE.

April 21—Senior-Junior.
April 22—Fresh-Soph.
April 23—Senior-Fresh.
April 24—Junior-Soph.
April 25—Senior-Soph.
April 26—Junior-Fresh.
April 28 Monday—Two leading teams play championship game.

Hall and Flinn Win Place on Debating Team
Woods Chosen as Alternate. Plenty of Action and Life Displayed.

The Fays and Phi's broke even in the choice of the debating team at the finals Monday night. E. Flinn, Fay, and R. Q. Wall, Phi, are the men who will represent us against Mercer at the end of this month. H. M. Woods, Fay, was chosen as alternate.

The debate, whose subject was the Government control and operation of railroads, showed splendid preparation and was full of pep. Arguing on the negative, they brought out very forcibly the fact that our Government was not a business or financial concern and that to let them control and operate the railroads would be unsound in policy. They also pointed out that it would increase the pork-barrel and make the railroads a political issue. On the other hand, Flinn argued that private control had no hope in the future on account of (1) legislation, (2) finances, and (3) labor. He went on to show further that now was the best and most practical time for this measure to be adopted.

The other six speeches were very good, and any one of them would have done credit to a Davidson debating team. But since only two could be chosen, we are sure we will be well represented at Mercer. A contract for a second debate with Washington and Lee is being closed. This will probably be held at Davidson, or in Greensboro.

WILLIAM S. HART ENTERTAINS MOVIE FANS FRIDAY NIGHT

Despite the fact that Friday night was a very disagreeable one, there was a large crowd at the "movies." The first three reels were entirely educational, and the last three featured William S. Hart and Clara Williams in "The Reformation of Cash Parrish." The operator, Rogers, is becoming quite expert in the art of running the machine and does as well as any professional.

The friends of Emery Flinn are becoming very much worried about him as he is getting to be quite a night-hawk. Why all the safety pins that now seem to be in vogue in the Junior class?

Mrs. Pierce, the grandmother of A. P. and A. C. Ormond, died Thursday and was buried in the Davidson cemetery.

Fun is frolicksome as a calf, happy as a bridegroom, and silly as a lovesick boy.