The DAVIDSONIAN, April 30, 1919

Practical Address Made By Dr. Douglas Urges All to Make the Most of Every Opportunity.

The Y. M. C. A. was indeed fortunate in hearing Dr. D. M. Douglas last Sunday night. He has been at Davidson visiting his brothers, Drs. J. M. and J. L. Douglas. Dr. Douglas graduated from Davidson in the class of '95. Then, upon completion of his course at the Seminary, he took up his pastoral work and has been pastor of several important churches. While serving a church in Baltimore, he was called to the presidency of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina and accepted the call.

His talk was one of the most practical that the fellows have had the privilege of hearing. Everyone can profit by taking it to heart. He based his address on the verse taken from the blessings of Isaac: "Bless me, even me also, O my Father." Dr. Douglas very forcibly explained how that, by the deception of Jacob, Esau was reaping that which he had sown in earlier years when he sold his birthright. The same thing is true today. When a person finds himself overburdened with trouble on account of financial failure, intellectual deficiency, or spiritual failure, he can, by looking back over his past life a few years, locate the cause of his misfortune. He can find the time when he was sowing the seed, the result of which he is now reaping. God gives everyone the ability in the beginning and by so doing holds each responsible for the power given him. Thus God cannot be expected to help the individual by miracles when that person does not make use of his opportunities. In closing, Dr. Douglas stated that, on the contrary, the success of every person can be traced back to some time in his earlier life when every opportunity was utilized. Everyone should strive to use the opportunities which God gives to him.

"The evangelization of the world in the next generation" is the goal set for missions as studied by the Forum in the light of the advantages resulting from the world war. All great advances in modern missions have had their birth in the reconstruction and consequent opportunity after every war. There is great need now for National Christianity even among so-called Christian Nations as shown by the selfishness of the Nations at the Peace Conference. Never before has the Church had such opportunities and advantages calling for immediate action. Through the broadening influences of the war, Foreign Missions have become the natural home field of the Church. All fields are now open to the victorious Gospel of Christ as they never have been before. Mohammedanism long held Asia and Africa in darkness. The failure of Islam to enter the Sultan's "Holy War" was the signal of his defeat. The separation of Asia Minor and the alliance of Egypt and India with the Allies have thrown open the doors of the "Dark Continents" of the Eastern Hemisphere for Christ's Kingdom to go in.

Never before has the church had the responsibility of such resources in interest, in experience, and in money. The $50,000,000 for one day, which the U. S. is now expending every day, will put enough workers in the field for one year to preach the Gospel to every Nation in this generation. This will mean the giving by every Christian in America of one cent ($.01) per day. This great responsibility rests upon every Christian: to render to God the things that are God's; to study intelligently, prayerfully, and faithfully; to interest others in giving themselves and their means in this, the greatest mission of Christ. The greatest and only power unto salvation is prayer—the prayer of faith. But one must first surrender himself and all that he hath to go to the front or serve with his life wherever he can be of the greatest power.

ATHLETIC NEWS.
(Continued from Page 6)

Freshmen won an 8 to 5 victory over the Juniors. Errors were frequent on both sides and were responsible for most of the scoring. Murphy, pitching for the Freshmen, struck out 11 men and with reasonable support should have shut out his opponents. Cathey, too, did some good twirling and allowed the Freshmen only six hits, but these coupled with as many errors and a wild throw allowed the Freshmen to score eight runs and win the game.

R. H. E.
Freshmen .......... 8 6 6
Juniors ............... 5 5 6

Batteries: Murphy and McHadden; Cathey and Brady. Umpires, Harding and Miles.

FRESH-JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP

In the second game between the two classes, the Juniors turned the tables on the Freshmen by reversingThe score of the previous contest, and thereby won the class championship. Murphy and Cathey opposed each other again in the pitcher's box. Murphy had a shade the better of the argument, allowing only six hits and striking out two men, while Cathey allowed nine hits and struck out two men. Errors on the part of the Freshmen accounted for their defeat. The Freshmen drew first blood when the first three men to face Cathey scored. Hyland tripled to right center and scored on Murphy's three-bagger to left. Montgomery drove in Murphy and scored himself on a single which went through Craig's legs for a home run. The Juniors came back in their half of the second inning and made five runs and five errors. The Freshmen scored twice in the third inning on hits by McLeod, Miller, and Ormond, thus tying the score. Neither side scored again until the ninth. After one man was down in the ninth, Craig was hit by a pitched ball and took second on a single by Frank Hall; Prep Hall walked and the bases were full. Craig scored on Hyland's error of Brady’s grounder and Black scored both Halls by his hot single to center. In their half of the inning, the Freshmen got men on second and third but were unable to cross the plate. The features of the game were the all-round playing of Black and Craig's catch of a long fly from Miller's bat in the eighth. Montgomery played a pretty game for the Freshmen.

R.H. E.
Juniors ...........000005 8 7 2
Freshmen ..........000005 5 9 8

Batteries: Cathey and Brady; Murphy and McFadden. Umpire, Miles.

HERE AND THERE.

“How would you like to sign up with me for a life game?” was the way a baseball fan proposed. “I am agreeable,” replied the girl, “where is your diamond?” —Exchange.

“Are they seasoned troops?” “They ought to be. They were first mustered in by their officers and then peppered by the enemy.” —Exchange.

Frank was in school when the teacher said: “Who knows what the five senses are?” Frank raised his hand and said: “Nickels.” —Exchange.

On one transport going over, one negro trooper said to another, a very seasick boy, “Look out there and see that sailboat.” “Don’t you call me for no sailboat, nigger,” came from the sick fellow lying with his head on his arms, “don't you call me at all unless you see a tree.”

Then there was the story of the crap-shooting negro in the artillery regiment, whose job was to feed the shells to the big guns. Each time he drove the shell into the breech and the gun boomed, he jumped high in the air and, with a characteristic crap-shooting crack of the fingers, shouted: “Count your men, Mr. Kaiser, count your men.” Then as another shell was driven home and the gun fired, another jump, another shout of “Count ‘em again, Mr. Kaiser, count ‘em again.”

A captain said to a company of negroes, “Now, I want you fellows to learn this game thoroughly. Suppose our company is holding the line here and the Boche makes a direct charge at us across this field, what would you boys do?” “Well, captain,” came from one member of the company, “we sho would spread the news over France.”

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St, Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

Don't Throw It Away
Make that old Suit Look New, by having it Dry Cleaned by
The Ben-Vonde Co.
DYERS AND CLEANERS
18, 20 and 22 W. Fifth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
E. N. BOOKER, Agent

Frye & Gibson
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY US
Charlotte, N. C.

THE STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
Dunlap Hats
E. & W. Metric Shirts
Hirsh Wickwire & Brandegee Kincaid Clothing
L. B. SONS

EVERYTHING LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
219 S. Tryon St.

It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit.

CATALOG FREE. Write for it.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
Charlotte, N. C.