Vol. VI.

Much Pep Displayed In First Class Games
Good Varsity Material Among Class Basketball Men.

Fresh Defeat Juniors in Extra Session

Saturday night, before a large crowd, the Freshmen defeated the Juniors in a close and exciting game of basketball 20
to 13. The game was fast and hard played throughout but was marred somewhat by a large number of fouls
on each side. The inability of both sides to cage these free shots made an extra five minutes of play
necessary, as the score was 13-13 when time was called. By some pretty work, especially on the part of Denny,
the Freshmen scored three field goals and one foul during this extra period, thereby putting the game on ice. For
the Juniors, McAlister, at guard, did the best work. Askew and Craig played the entire floor and did some good
passing. McAlister at guard also did good work. Denny at forward and Price at guard were the stars for the
winning team. Final score: Fresh 20, Juniors 13.

Juniors. Fresh.
Askew .......... Denny
Craig .......... Ormand
Forwards
Caldwell ....... Cornelson
Center Position
McAlister ...... Chalmers (c)
Guards

Summary — Field goals: Askew 2, Craig 1, Chalmers 3, Denny 5, Ormand 1, Cornelson 1, Doubles 1. Foul goals:
Chalmers 1 out of 9, Denny 2 out of 7, Ormand 2 out of 5, Doubles 0 out of 2.
Substitution: Liston for Craig. Time of halves: 20 and 15. Extra period of 5 minutes. Referee: Mr. Miles; timekeeper, Fetzer;
scorers, R. D. Hall and McCrary.

Sophs Upset the Dope

On Monday night the Sophs and Senior basketball teams clashed. The game was fast and full of interest from beginning
to end. The dope was all in favor of the Seniors, who had last year's team practically intact. They also
played A. R. Craig, who starred on the team of Company “A” last fall. The Sophs, who gave last year’s
champions such a close race, had lost some of their best men. But contrary to the general opinion, the Sophs
proved the better team. They took the lead in the early part of the game and held it throughout the
entire game, the final score being 26-18. For the Sophomores, Ormond and Harrington did some splendid goal shooting. The field
work of Harrington was also particularly good. The guarding of Brice was tight and effective. Schenck also played a good
game. The stars for the Seniors were Davenport and Alexander. Craig also played up to his usual form and was
with the ball during the whole game. A feature of this year's games is the refereeing. Hitherto we have had
to rely on picking up anybody, but now Mr. Miles, the Y man, who had played considerable basketball, is the
able referee. His decisions have always been (Continued on page 6)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 22, 1919.

Hapless Freshmen Are Initiated By Literary Societies

Eumeneans Unearth Old Eastern Custom
Darkness Follows Pooling Of Freshmen Shoes.

The Eumenean Literary Society held its initiation of new members Saturday night. The event was full of pep and interest,
and the initiates went through a rigid test before their admission. Forty-three men qualified and were initiated into the rites
of the society. Free aeroplane rides were given to a selected few, while others, impersonating all manner of beasts, paraded
before the society with most realistic grunts and attitudes. M. R. Doubles and Geo. Cornelson contested with A. C. Ormand
and J. P. Price in a singing contest. The former lost and were called to contest Booth and Phillips in
an “all-at-the-same-moment” singing duel. Both pairs being in good condition, neither could oust the other, and both were declared the
winners.

The vocal contest was followed by a debate: Resolved, “That a brown-eyed girl has a better disposition than a blue-eyed
girl,” affirmative and Summers the negative. Both showed surprising knowledge on the subject. The negative won mainly because it used
specific instances to prove its points. Next was an oration by W. S. Scott on “Why I Joined the Eumenean
Society.” Naturally, his reasons were excellent! Another debate followed: Resolved, “That I am a better man than you are,” affirmative,
J. P. Price; negative, W. E. Ginn. Neither side could produce any argument, so the debate resulted in a draw.
The next act was a unique speech in Japanese by R. R. McIlwaine, which was enjoyed by the more cultured
of the audience. W. P. Cumming, the original Jap from Japan, was acting critic, but found himself in deep water
when attempting to keep up with the speaker. A paper fight followed in which the contestants must have gotten hot,
for they fanned only the air, despite their repeated attempts to hit their opponents. The fight furnished much amusement despite
the fact that the contestants were blindfolded and limited to a small field for their maneuvers. All those who had
not been engaged in the former contests were made to take off their shoes and pile them in a heap.
Then the meeting was declared adjourned and the lights were turned out, leaving a mass of struggling humanity.

The following men joined the Eumenean Society: S. H. Askew, G. N. Atkinson, J. C. Bailey, R. Bitzer, W. R.
Booth, L. F. Boyd, B. D. Breitenhirt, A. F. Cellar, George Cornelson, S. P. Craig, C. E. Cunningham, Pitts Douglas,
A. F. Drake, W. B. Dunlap, O. M. Dugger, M. R. Doubles, M. V. Doggett, D. M. Gaston, J. M.
Gilmer, D. K. Grille, W. E. Gunn, J. C. Hyland, R. J. (Continued on page 6)organs. Next came D. K.
Grille, who defended the Affirmative, O. M. Dug- [Blushing Freshmen tinent Question. After the usual opening prayer, Phi Society on
last Saturday night, January 18, went into one of the most interesting and awe-inspiring ceremonies; that of initiating new men
into its numbers. Four upperclassmen were administered the oath of membership before the Freshmen were admitted. These men were H.
H. L. Foster, W. I. Wilson, and J. M. Gaston.

The doors were then thrown open, both figuratively and literally, and a motley crew of brand new freshmen marched in.
Their faces were covered with smiles, grins, and burnt cork; their shirt-tails were exhibited unblushingly, their coats were turned inside
out and exposed an astonishing array of coat linings, and pants were pulled up to present a veritable panoply of
green socks, purple garters, and human legs of various tints of brown and chocolate. After having been suddenly shouted at
when the lights blinked on them, these men with nerves but slightly shaken were read the preamble to the constitution.
They next gave sign by grunts, nods of the head, and sheepish expressions, their assent to the questions put to
them by the president, and so became members of the Philanthropic Society.

But not all—they were made to sign their names at the secretary's desk, and—would you believe it?—the names of their
best girls also. Then—shocking as it may sound, ‘tis true!—they were required to stand up in answer to the reading
aloud of the appellations or cognomens of their lady loves. Following this, the society inflicted upon itself the torture of
having several of the “buds of future orators” sing. An execution of the manual of arms with a toothpick, and
a test of nimbleness in exchanging hands from ears to nose and back again were enjoyed. But when one was
called to represent the butler, while the “Gold Dust Twins” took the part of a young maiden and her gentleman
caller, and the butler said, “come in,” to the knocking of the latter, it brought down the house. Then the
young gentleman showed to all the proper way to encircle with a stout arm “the apple of one's eye.” A
speech on goat feathers, a medley of song, and an exposition of the vital need of the Peace Conference having
delegates from Phi Society met with approval. Then followed a debate on the query, “Resolved, That the Government should own
and operate Chambers building.” It was an undecided issue. The Freshmen were allowed to close with a chorus and its
parody, the title being “Smiles.” The following Freshmen were admitted:

(Continued on page 6)

Unveil Secret Love

“Who’s Your Girl?” was Phi’s Imperative Question. After the usual opening prayer, Phi Society on last Saturday night, January 18,
went into one of the most interesting and awe-inspiring ceremonies; that of initiating new men into its numbers. Four upperclassmen
were administered the oath of membership before the Freshmen were admitted. These men were H. H. L. Foster, W. I.
Wilson, and J. M. Gaston.

The doors were then thrown open, both figuratively and literally, and a motley crew of brand new freshmen marched in.
Their faces were covered with smiles, grins, and burnt cork; their shirt-tails were exhibited unblushingly, their coats were turned inside
out and exposed an astonishing array of coat linings, and pants were pulled up to present a veritable panoply of
green socks, purple garters, and human legs of various tints of brown and chocolate. After having been suddenly shouted at
when the lights blinked on them, these men with nerves but slightly shaken were read the preamble to the constitution.
They next gave sign by grunts, nods of the head, and sheepish expressions, their assent to the questions put to
them by the president, and so became members of the Philanthropic Society.

Annual Staff Men Are Being Selected

Call For Cartoonists Has Been Issued. All would-be artists of the pen and the “animal usually kept in such an
enclosure,” viz: the, b—oh, well you understand, are encouraged to begin inscribing their words of wit or wisdom. Also, anybody
who ever drew a laughable cartoon is likely to be called upon to contribute their skill to our Annual. We
want to make this issue of “Quips and Cranks” come up to standard form, and this can be done only
through the concerted efforts of the whole company. So come on and let's see if we can’t put some real
live stuff in this issue. Forget about the mistakes you have made in drawing, and the hard times you've had
in conceiving new ideas, and just see how much pep can be put into an article for the sake of
Cauld or anybody else you choose to please.

A. L. Wilson, ‘20, was elected assistant manager by the student body, in place of G. D. Elliott, who has
not returned. The other managers are S. M. Gilbert, G. B. Brown, and W. R. Hall. Advertising patrons will soon
have their names made known through the agency of the Davidsonian, and the aforesaid managers. Everybody should place their orders
for extra Annuals with S. M. Gilbert or the other fellows aforementioned. Selah.

MAKING THE MOST OF YOUR LIFE

On last Sunday evening, the Ministerial Band had the good fortune of hearing Bob Miles on the subject, “The Opportunity
Before the Minister of Today.” Beginning with the romance of the preacher's life, he showed why he is in a
position to get the most out of life. Also, that present conditions make the task so great that it can
only be met by real men, that the day of the long-faced, sanctimonious parson was past, if such had ever
existed. Prayer life was given as the most necessary thing in the life of anyone, especially a prospective minister. At
the meeting of the Band on the coming Sunday, an unusual program has been arranged with the subject: “Worldly Pleasures.”
Three men will discuss different phases of this topic and it is hoped that a large number will be present.
Especially are those men who have chosen the ministry as a life work and who have not affiliated themselves with
the Band urged to come out.

THE GENTLE GRAFTER

If you are baldheaded and knock-kneed, and if you are fat and forty, and if some sweet thing around twenty-four
remarks that she always liked baldheaded men anyhow, because they are so intelligent, and she likes to see ‘em well-fed
around the waist—well, sir, you just turn right around and say: “Scuse me, miss, but how'd you know I've got
an automobile?” —Ex.
