Lak DAVIDSONIAN Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 2, 1919. No. 22

GLEE CLUB AWAY ON SECOND TRIP

The Glee Club trip two weeks ago was such a success that it seemed a shame to let talent of
so excellent a quality go to waste. For this reason, two engagements were made, one Monday night at Mitchell College,
Statesville, N.C., and the other at Lenoir College, Hickory, N.C., for Tuesday night. Those making the trip were: H. B.
Brown, C. R. Vance, P. A. Freeman, H. B. Dendy, C. J. Matthews, E. H. Denny, J. J. Love, A.
D. McArn, B. E. Shields, J. W. Phillips, G. O. Sample, D. P. McGeachy, M. A. Freemain, Carl Cathey.

On to Blue Ridge! Great Opportunity Make Plans Now to Attend Conference In June.

Yes, you are right about it! The Blue Ridge Conference will be held this summer, and Davidson expects to have
a good-sized delegation there. Someone has said that the success of the work the next year at any college depends
to a large extent upon the delegation at Blue Ridge. Blue Ridge is an ideal place for a conference. Located
in the heart of the Blue Ridge Mountains, it is surrounded by many tall and beautiful peaks. Mount Mitchell, which
has the highest elevation east of the Rockies, is visible from the place. It is about twenty-five miles distant from
Blue Ridge, and frequently tramping parties climb it. But speaking of the conference, it is the unanimous opinion of all
who go that it is one of the great ten days of their lives. Prominent men of all sections of
the country are there to speak and teach. The list of speakers this year is not yet obtainable, but it
is assured that it will contain men of the type of Robert E. Speer, Dr. Horne of New York, Dr.
Weatherford, Dr. Mims of Vanderbilt, Dr. E. M. Poteat, and many others. Athletics are not neglected, so don’t forget to
take your gloves, racquets, and athletic equipment with you. The boys one meets there are of a type that it
does one good to know. It is well-nigh impossible for a student to go to a Blue Ridge conference and
not receive some real benefit. Think it over and while you are making your plans for the summer, don't forget
to include the Blue Ridge conference. You will never, never regret going.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS ON BOOM — BIBLE CLASSES FAIR

Owing to the changing of time and the baseball game in Charlotte, the attendance at Bible classes last week was
only fair. There were 85 men attending in the four dormitories. Rumple led with 25, South Chambers next with 20,
Watts with 15, then Georgia with 13, and North Chambers was last with 12. The Sunday Schools were better than
usual with 28 teachers and an attendance of 242.

W. F. Hall Winner Of Tennis “D” Woods Runner-up. All Matches Close and Interesting.

By defeating E. A. Woods in the final match Saturday afternoon, W. F. Hall settled the question of tennis champion
and at the same time brought new honors to the renowned "Halls of Fame.” The whole tournament was unusually snappy
and every round brought out some closely contested matches. A significant fact was that almost one-half of the entries were
Freshmen, some of whom will be conspicuous in the championship fight next year. The match between McKeldin and Hall in
the third round and between Hall and Spence in the semi-finals were especially close. In the former match, both sets
required extra games for a decision. In the last set, McKeldin was in the lead and for a while it
seemed that the set belonged to him, until Frank settled down and finished it up in his favor. In the
match with Spence, Hall was forced to play his best. The fact that these two old partners had played doubles
together for three years seemed to increase their rivalry and the match was played in jam-up style. In the finals,
Woods staged a sensational comeback; after losing the first two sets he took the next by a 6-1 count and
the fourth by a 6-4 score. However, at this time Hall called for a toothpick, and this mysterious want was
at once supplied by the audience. It was demonstrated that the usefulness of this luxury has been extended beyond its
original scope and that it can be successfully employed as a nerve pacifier, for Frank at once regained his stride
and walked off with the final set. Woods played his usual steady game throughout, at no time showing signs of
uneasiness. However, Hall's difficult serve and hard smashing were a shade too effective, and when accurate could hardly be coped
with. According to a recent ruling of the Athletic Association, Frank will be awarded a tennis “D,” and is to
be congratulated on being the first to receive this honor. The tabulated results of the singles are as follows:

First Round:
Gaither defeats Rogers 6-1, 6-1.
Spence defeats B. R. Cunningham 6-1, 6-4.
Hall defeats C. E. Cunningham 6-4, 6-0.
McKeldin defeats Kornegay 6-4, 6-2.
Manning defeats McPheeters 6-3, 6-8, 8-6.
Woods defeats R. C. Ormond 6-2, 6-4.
Lilly defeats A. P. Ormond 6-1, 6-2.
Price defeats Wilkinson 6-4, 2-6, 6-3.

Second Round:Spence defeats Gaither 6-0, 6-1. Hall defeats McKeldin 8-6, 8-6. Woods defeats McPheeters 6-2, 6-1. Lilly defeats Price 1-6,
6-1, 6-1. Semi-finals: Hall defeats Spence 6-4, 6-4. Woods defeats Lilly 6-2, 5-7, 6-0. (Continued on page 3)

SANE pointy Wildcats Lose First Game Of Season On Little End of 10 to 0 Score With Phillies.

On Saturday afternoon, in a game which was far more interesting than the score would indicate, the Philadelphia Nationals defeated
the white-shirted Davidson team by the score of 10 to 0. Contrary to what the sporting scribe of the Charlotte
Observer would have us believe, the Wildcats played good ball and made things lively for their opponents. Wildness on the
part of the pitchers, coupled with several errors in the early part of the game, was responsible for most of
the Leaguers’ scoring. After the first three innings, the Phillies’ runs were few and far between. The good form throughout
the game, although they had been in training less than a week. The pitching of Packard, who struck out six
men in three innings, and Perree’s sensational stop of a hot liner from Richards’ bat were the main features on
their part. “Slugging Cabbe” Cravath failed to connect solidly with the ball. Indeed, the Quakers had trouble in finding Clark
and Currie. They were able to make only seven hits in eight innings. There were no individual stars for Davidson.
The whole team played hard and well, however. The Wildcats threatened to score at several junctures of the game, although
they connected for only two hits. In the eighth inning, McArn was safe at first on Pearce’s error, advanced to
second on Boswell’s sacrifice, and took third on a passed ball by Cady. He remained while Cassel knocked a pop
fly to the infield and Currie fanned. In the ninth, Spann, the first man up, singled to center and was
advanced to second on Ratchford's sacrifice. Johnson struck out and Williams ended the game by catching Richards’ fly to right
centerfield.

The game was witnessed by nearly 2,000 spectators who rooted lustily for Davidson. Box score:

PHILADELPHIA
AB R H PO A E
Callahan, lf 4 3 0 2 1 0
Bancroft, ss 3 0 0 0 1 0
Wallace, 2b 4 0 0 2 2 0
Shoemaker, 3b 4 1 1 0 0 0
Cravath, rf 4 2 0 0 0 0
Luderus, 1b 4 1 1 6 0 0
Munch, 1b 4 0 0 10 0 0
Williams, cf 3 0 1 2 0 0
Pearce, 2b 4 1 2 3 1 0
Yeadshy, c 2 0 0 2 0 0
Adams, c 2 0 1 6 0 0
Cady, c 2 0 0 0 0 0
Woodward, p 1 0 0 0 2 1
(Continued on page 4)

BASEBALL, Friday, April 4. Davidson vs. Oak Ridge. How much “pep” have you?

CLASS BASEBALL WILL BE RESUMED THIS SPRING

If you don't make the Varsity, cheer up, because you will have a chance to show your ability as a
baseball player in the class games. For the past few years, this phase of college athletics has been overlooked, but
now it is planned to get back to a pre-war basis. In accordance with this plan, the Seniors have chosen
R.L. Clarke as their manager, the Sophomores have elected Harry Sample as the one to lead them to class championship,
and in the Freshman Class, this honor has been conferred upon “Rooster” McFadden. The Juniors are still meditating upon who
to select. Fellows, let's put some “pep” into these games and make them snappy. Even if you don’t play, come
out and help your team on to victory. These games will help you to forget your troubles and make this
spring pass by in double-quick time.

R.O.T.C. Organization Perfected Classes in Military Service Begin this Week.

Beginning the first of this week, the R.O.T.C. at Davidson assumed a different aspect than has hitherto been followed. The
battalion will work according to a schedule and every minute will have its place among the many divisions of military
work. Each company will drill according to a laid-down system. The whole program, as published by Colonel Mueller, will perfect
the work and training in the corps, and every detail has been carefully worked out, so that every section will
have a distinct bearing on the work of the whole. Classes have been organized, and each phase of the work
undertaken will have a special period in which it will be demonstrated. The preliminary work will consist of extended order
drill, physical training exercise, military discipline and courtesy, and battalion drill. These will occupy four of the drill periods during
the week. The fifth period will be used for recitation period. Following is the schedule:

Company “A”: Tuesday, R.O.R.; Wednesday, I.G.; Thursday, F.T.; Friday, E.K.N.; Saturday, O.O.Q.
Company “B”: Tuesday, E.G.; Wednesday, R.O.R.; Thursday, F.T.; Friday, E.K.N.; Saturday, O.O.Q.
Company “C”: Tuesday, E.G.; Wednesday, F.T.; Thursday, R.O.R.; Friday, E.K.N.; Saturday, O.O.Q.
Company “D”: Tuesday, E.G.; Wednesday, F.T.; Thursday, E.K.N.; Friday, R.O.R.; Saturday, O.O.Q.

The abbreviations in the above schedule stand for the following:
E—Extended Order—Company.
F—Extended Order—Platoon.
G—Physical Training—Company.
H—Physical Training—Platoon.
K—Physical Training—Squad.
(Continued on page 6)
