The DAVIDSONIAN, April 23, 1919

Class of ’14 Reunion Scheduled This May
President of Class Sounds the War-whoop for Big Attendance.

Toronto, Canada, April 2, 1919.

Fellows of Fourteen:

Although I have been in touch with some of you recently, it behooves me, as alumni president of the class,
to address this communication to all of you through The Davidsonian. May 25-28 is the time and Davidson College is
the place to which your attention is invited. It is almost “Nuff-sed,” but for fear something might have distracted your
mental machinery, I suggest that you recall the fifth anniversary of our graduation falling at the time specified. According to
all of our rules, regulations, and precedents, we are slated to gather at Davidson for a grand celebration.

Only two excuses will be accepted from men not attending: First, distance; second, dire calamity. If a man is still
in France or some other distant part of the world, we shall hardly expect him to attend. Or, if some
extraordinary circumstances develop over which he has no control, he might be allowed to report “absent.” However, if you are
a clergyman, explain the urgency of your contemplated absence to the flock, get someone to fill the pulpit, and buy
a ticket for Davidson. In the event that you have become a physician, leave a generous supply of sugar-coated pills
with the chronic patients. Should you be a lawyer, just postpone a case until next court. Perchance (and may the
fates be kind to you!) you are a “near benedict” and the nuptials are scheduled for, say, May 26th, have
the date changed. You can commit matrimony most any time, but this 1919 commencement will occur once only. Maybe you
don't come under any of these heads—then be there anyhow.

We shall be the infant “reunioning” class and it is highly necessary that we be there in full force with
a lusty yell.

PLAN NOW FOR COMMENCEMENT
Double Nines Coming To Commencement Banquet Scheduled for this Twenty Year-Olds.

Gastonia, N. C., April 2, 1919.

To the Class of ’99 Everywhere:

Dear Classmates:

It will be twenty years in May since we graduated from Davidson College and I am writing to know if
you do not think we ought to get together to “talk it over.” McConnell says he will arrange for a
banquet for us. We will draft Major (“Pleas.”) Matheson as toastmaster and Haney and Johnny Ward will speak for us.
Commencement is from May 25th to 28th. We can meet on Tuesday at noon. Bring the wives and kiddies along.
We insist on this for Henry Stokes and Luke Beall and “Kid” Smith.

Yours for a reunion of the nines,
S. A. Robinson.

Davidson Men In the Service of Our Country
Civil War

In the Civil War, 298 men were known to have entered the service; 81 of these were graduates and 217
did not receive a degree. These represented a total matriculation of 1,039, and classes from 1840 to 1869. Of this
number, 80 gave their lives and others died after the war from wounds and diseases.

Col. Don Scott, of the 120th Infantry, which paraded in Charlotte, N.C., last week, is an old Davidson man. He
graduated with the class of 1917. Though very young, he was one of the most popular students of the school.
After his college career had ended, Colonel Scott went into business at Burlington, N.C., and his business life has been
marked with unusual success. At the time of America’s entrance into the war, he went to the first officers' training
camp and has since risen to the rank of Colonel.officers’ training camp at Oglethorpe, Ga., where he was commissioned. Having
had some previous military experience, he rose very rapidly to the rank of major. Then he was made a Lieutenant
Colonel and now is the commanding officer of the 120th Infantry. His regiment was a part of the Thirtieth Division,
better known as the “Old Hickory” division, which broke the Hindenburg line.

STUDENT BODY EXPRESSES COOPERATION WITH ALUMNI

To the Alumni:

Now that the war is over, let’s have a regular alumni reunion. The student body of Davidson College wishes to
express its interest and hearty cooperation in making this year's commencement the very best ever. All alumni, we hope, will
make every effort in their power to be here May 25, and we feel sure that all will be amply
repaid by a visit to their Alma Mater. Remember, that the student body is looking for you and will welcome
you as best it can. Don’t disappoint us.

(Signed) J. H. Miller, Jr.
President Student Body.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAMME

Sunday, May 25th.
11 A. M.—Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. J. Layton Mauze, D. D., Huntington, West Virginia.

Monday, May 26th.
10 A. M.—Class Day Exercises.
4 P. M.—Musical Entertainment by the Davidson College Glee Club.
8 P. M.—Annual Reunion of the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies.

Tuesday, May 27th.
9 A. M.—Annual Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
8 P. M.—Annual Sermon Before the Y. M. C. A., Dr. D. Clay Lilly, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Wednesday, May 28th.
11 A. M.—Annual Literary Address, Dr. J. H. McCracken, President of Lafayette College.
12 M.—Graduating Exercises. Conferring of Degrees.

3 P. M.—Class Reunions.
4 P. M.—Memorial Service in honor of Alumni who died in the world war.
8:30 P. M.—Oratorical Contest between Literary Societies.
10 P. M.—General Reception of Student Organizations.

European War

In the European war, so far as we can yet ascertain, 625 men were in service, exclusive of the 223
in the S. A. T. C. Of these, there are the following commissioned officers:
Brigadier Generals ............ 1
Colonels ..................... 2
Lieutenant Colonels .......... 2
Majors ....................... 8
Captains ..................... 25
First Lieutenants ............ 30
Second Lieutenants ........... 14
Ensigns ...................... 13

Nineteen have made the supreme sacrifice, and nineteen others are known to have been wounded. Seven received medals for distinguished
service.

“What became of Piute Pete?” asked the visitor at Crimson Gulch.
“He joined the army,” answered Broncho Bob.
“Thought he was too old to fight.”
“He was. But he was such a fighter that nobody dared tell him.”—Washington Star.

CRITICISM.
“Does your wife sing?”
“That’s a matter of opinion.”—Boston Transcript.

SUBSCRIPTION CAMPAIGN: Our Goal: Every
