A Senior while on the campus kissed his girl’s hand. She mildly remarked, "dirty!"

PLAY TENNIS
WITH
Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc.
Public equipment for men and women, including Brnscetaing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY
The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.
Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.
Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
C. U. STEES, Gen. Mgr.

Overcoats
Another shipment of young men’s Overcoats in the very latest models at $25.00, $29.50, $39.50, and $49.50.
Belk Brothers

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

THE DAVIDSONIAN, December 4, 1919.

LITERARY NEWS
Eumenean—Senior Society.
Debate: Resolved, That the U. S. Government should purchase all patent rights.
Affirmative: Chalmers, D. M. Morrison
Negative: Neal, W. C. Sample, G. D.
Oration: Wilson, A. L.
Declamations: Bailey, J. C. Bitzer

Eumenean—Junior.
There will be no meeting of the Eu. Junior Society on the 8th.

Philanthropic Society—Senior.
Debate: Resolved, That the U. S. Government should purchase all patent rights.
Affirmative: Freeman, T. A. McKeithan, G. H.
Negative: McLeod, F. D. Extemporaneous Debate.
Affirmative: McLeod, M. Smith, W. C.
Negative: Calhoun, N. P. News, July 24, and received his discharge at Camp Gordon, on August 1.

FROM LOS ANGELES, CAL.
Los Angeles, Cal., Nov. 12, 1919,
Dear Fellows:
We arrived in Vancouver on the 19th of September, having been a month, lacking one day, on our way. We
came by Vladivostok and brought over 411 soldiers who were on their way home to England via Canada. Some say
the trip over was a pleasant one. It may have been—to them. At Vancouver, we received the sad news of
my wife’s mother’s death last July, and this was a very great blow to us. The house at Eagle Rock
was sold, so our plans were upset, but finally, we decided to come on here and stay with my wife’s
father till the end of next March and then come on East. We are both trying to get in study,
but I am the only one that is succeeding very well, though my wife gets to the Bible Institute once
in a while, and hopes to get there more often as soon as we really get settled. I am taking
work at the University of Southern California and also at the Bible Institute. Am doing work in mathematics at the
former institution. We are enjoying it here very much in every way. Had a time getting any place to stay,
but we have finally gotten located in a very nice little bungalow where we hope to be till we leave
this city. I have heard very little from Korea since leaving. The college and academy both opened, the college having
about 20 students—30 percent of normal, and the academy had about 70—less than 30 percent of normal by a good
deal. They were still running the last I heard directly, but Mr. Gillis, who is studying here also, had a
letter in which it was stated that the schools had to close on account of the cholera. Some of the
Seoul schools did not open because there was a quarantine.were no stt- Lee, June 25, 1919. His was the last
National Army Division to sail as a unit from France.

L. P. Good, ’20.

Probably no other man now at Davidson has had a wider range of experience than L. P. Good, of York,
S.C. Enlisting in the Infantry at Camp Jackson, S.C., on May 23, 1918, he was transferred to the 305 Ammunition
Train on July 16 and soon went to Camp Millis, New York, whence he sailed for Liverpool on August 7.
A few days were spent in a rest camp at Romsey before sailing for Chesbaugh, France, where he landed the
same day, August 24. Leaving Chesbaugh on August 27, Good spent 10 days at La Harve, three days at Dijan
and 10 days on the St. Mihiel front.

He was with the 70th Division in the Argonne Forest during the four days from the 17th to 20th of
September, after which several days were spent in additional training at Vercel. He took part in the Meuse-Argonne offensive on
the Verdun front, November 6 to 11, and left this place on November 13 for Chemneson, where he remained till
January 27, 1919.

On March 1 he left his organization at Mustille to enter Aix Marseilles University. He was given a furlough by
the French government and visited the Alps. While on this trip he slipped into Geneva, Switzerland. He was in Paris
when the Germans accepted the peace terms and returned to the United States on June 16. He was awarded a
copy of the United States government purchase all patent rights.

After commencement, a 12-day furlough was spent traveling through the Alps, and while on this trip he slipped into Geneva,
Switzerland. He was in Paris when the Germans accepted the peace terms and returned to the United States on June
16. He was awarded a copy of the United States government purchase all patent rights.

MR. PARKER WRITES LETTER

Sloan, S. R.

I always look upon Davidson as my home in this country now—my home is Korea, of course—and look forward to
seeing old D.C. more than anything else. I shall try to let you hear a little more often. Have been
so rushed getting caught up with back work that I have not had time for anything.

With all best wishes, I am
Yours in the service of the Master,
W. P. Parker.
1221 W. 54th St.

Here is your opportunity to insure against embarrassing errors in spelling, pronunciation, and poor choice of words. Know the meaning
of puzzling terms. Increase your efficiency, which results in power and success.

WEBSTER'S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in
daily use by hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over.

400,000 Words. 3700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations. 13,000 Biographical Entries. 30,000 Geographical Subjects.

GRAND PRIZE, (Highest Award) Panama-Pacific Exposition.

REGULAR and INDIA-PAPER Editions.

WRITE for Specimen Pages. FREE Pocket Maps if you name this paper.

G. & C.

THEY WIN IN A WALK

We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new
athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box—single or double-breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or
checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this newspaper to describe them—but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
