6. The DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1919

Around the Campus

THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED

Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at White’s Market

Brown’s Cafe - Live “Y” Notes

CHECKER CHAMPION IS W. P. NESBITT, ‘21

H. K. Aiken, '18, stopped over on the Hill for a few hours last week. Mr. John Webb, of Salisbury, was on the campus Saturday.

The checker tournament closed Saturday. The final game was a hard-fought battle between R. Bitzer, '22, and W. P. Nesbitt, '21. Nesbitt won, and now he is Davidson's checker champion.

B. H. Boyd (of Alabama) saw snow for the first time Sunday.

Liston spent a peaceful weekend, since his antagonist Sherrill was at home over Sunday.

The combatants in the first preliminary games were S. L. Sanderson vs. C. E. Cunningham, R. Bitzer vs. R. L. Liston, R. F. L. Brown vs. D. W. Spencer, J. C. Hyland vs. A. R. Craig, J. M. Walton vs. D. C. Stogner, C. K. Beall vs. W. P. Nesbitt, C. M. Cathey vs. R. M. Wilkes, W. K. Reid vs. J. F. Clark.

Most of Monday was consumed in Kodaking the snow. The cupola was popular Sunday afternoon as a general view of the snow could be obtained from there.

Winners in the first preliminary were Cunningham, Bitzer, Spencer, Hyland, Walton, Nesbitt, Wilkes, and Reid. Winners in the second preliminary were Bitzer, Hyland, Nesbitt, Reid. Bitzer and Nesbitt won in the semi-finals, after which the finals were played.

All the fellows enjoyed the tournament and the whole campus is becoming interested in the game.

L. A. ELLIOT

L. A. Wooten, '22; R. L. Riser, '21; R. W. Holmes, '22, and T. A. Freeman, '22, spent Sunday at their respective homes.

A number of new books came into the library last week.

SOCIAL ROOM POPULAR

The lights are staying on the campus remarkably well. The social room of the “Y” has been found to be a congenial gathering place and all the men have enjoyed the reading, music, and games offered there very much. A chess tournament is in progress this week and some “dark horse” is expected to appear as the winner.

STUDENTS POSE FOR ANNUAL PICTURES

“Get out your stiff collar, get your hair cut, and face shaved!” These were the words with which “Amo” heralded the arrival of the Quips and Cranks photographer last Monday morning. The following morning found quite a number of three-inch collars, stiff as a board, with a powdered face peeping over each one waiting to get his beauty struck.

Tuesday and Wednesday were consumed taking the individual pictures and the groups followed on Thursday. The photographs are always one of the principal parts of the Annual. If they are good, the Annual is usually attractive. So this year the management spared no expense in getting a good photographer, Mr. Shuford.of Gastonia, was the one secured, and his care in making the exposures foretell the quality of the pictures. "Amo" is still in need of contributions of all kinds and urges everyone who can do anything along this line to get busy.

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST
Office Over Bank
Booe’s Market
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

Fresh Frye & Gibson Meats
Will Dye or Fix Your Shoes
TRY Us At All Times

Unlimited Selection In Choice of Pianos at all Prices
It is IMPORTANT that you be able to see pianos of all grades to really be sure of getting the one you want. In these factory warerooms you have the largest stock to choose from. You buy at factory prices, you deal direct with the old firm of Chas. M. Stieff. Our policy is most liberal in the allowance for your old piano and in arranging terms to suit. CATALOG FREE. Write for it.

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
M. D. MANNING, Mgr.
219 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. Myers, of Greensboro, has consented to hold a series of meetings on the Hill under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., giving as his preferable dates the 24th, 25th, and 26th. Mr. Miles has written him that these dates will be satisfactory. Although he has not received a reply from Dr. Myers as yet, it is more than probable that he will be on the Hill on these days. Dr. Myers is a very forceful speaker who has something to say and says it. Those who have heard him will not miss hearing him, and those who have not should not miss hearing him. He will bring with him a quartette composed of two ladies and two gentlemen. Those who have heard the quartette can testify that it will be an additional influence for the success of the meeting.

BIBLE CLASSES.
The attendance at the morning Bible classes last Sunday registered 125 fellows, this number being divided as follows: North Wing Chambers, 12; South Wing Chambers, 27; Georgia, 22; Watts, 28, and Rumple, 36. While Chambers led in numbers, yet Rumple had the best average as she had 36 men present out of a possible 50. This morning Bible class is not a new thing at Davidson by any means, but it has received a new impetus under the leadership of Mr. Miles, who has selected a competent corps of teachers for this work. The teachers are willing to give their time in preparing the lesson, so why cannot the rest of us do the same? Let's make it a point to come next Sunday prepared to enter fully into the discussion of these questions which are vital to our everyday life. What about it, fellows? Can't we do this much?

BELK CUP AWARDED.
The Greek Letter Fraternity averages for the year 1917-18 were as follows: A. T. O., 85.25; K. A., 75.83. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon is therefore the holder of the Belk Cup.

The hearty sympathy of the student body is extended to W. H. Cullum, '19, who recently lost his mother and grandmother from complications following influenza.

The Rexall Store
WHITE DRUG CO.
Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

STOP AND SEE BROWN’S
A STORE OF YOUNG MEN FOR YOUNG MEN
HIRSH WICKWIRE & BRANDEGEE KINCAID CLOTHING
DUNLAP & STETSON HATS

BLUE PENCIL CLUB.
The Blue Pencil Club met Wednesday of last week. At this meeting the life and works of Washington Irving were discussed. Emery Flynn was in charge of the discussion and handled the subject masterfully. After the meeting the members enjoyed an informal feed.

If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
CLAUDE BROWN, Inc.
34 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Next to Pressing Club