The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year by the Students of Davidson College. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Editorial Board:
D. W. Roberts - Editor-in-Chief
J. H. Cassell - Managing Editor
J. R. Boulware, Jr. - Assignment Editor
L. B. Schenck - Athletic Editor
J. C. McCaskill - Alumni Editor

The Staff:
D. M. Chalmers
J. M. Gaston
L. G. Calhoun
A. L. Wilson
J. W. Witherspoon

Management:
C. J. Mathews - Business Manager
L. L. McAllister - Circulation Manager
A. L. Currie - Assistant Manager
C. H. Long - Assistant Manager
T. H. Wilson - Assistant Manager

Reporter's Staff:
S. H. Askew
R. R. Craig
T. H. Spence
M. A. Trexler
J. R. Walker
A. M. Mitchell
W. P. Cumming
J. M. Richards
J. P. Price
M. R. Doubles
C. M. Dugger, Jr.

Subscription, $1.25 THE COLLEGIATE YEAR.

EDITORIAL

OUR PURPOSE.

You have placed upon the shoulders of the new staff the responsibility of publishing The Davidsonian, and upholding its dignity as a college weekly. We wish here to express our gratitude to you for allowing us to serve you in this manner. The Davidsonian is your paper. It is an organ of service: And its main purpose for existing is to serve you and the college from which it has gotten its name. To this end the staff will always work with the hope that it shall fulfill all the demands which you call upon it to perform. To do this we must have your sympathy and co-operation. Mistakes will be made. Misunderstandings will arise. Yet through it all we want you to know and feel that we are trying to serve you. Criticisms and suggestions will be welcomed at all times by the editors. And we want you to feel free to make them at any time. With the knowledge that we have your sympathy and co-operation, we shall be able to accomplish the duties which you have given us. And The Davidsonian will fulfill the purpose of its existence, making the year 1919-1920 the most successful of its career.

“Every day is a new life. Every evening is a Day of Judgment. Every morning is a Resurrection.” — Crane.

No doubt most of the sleeping sickness that we hear so much about can be traced to “Spring Fever.”

“Manhood overtops all titles. Character is above all riches, greater than any career. Character is success.” — Success.

“Athletics for everybody and everybody in athletics,” is a very good motto for us to consider.

College life seems to be one “Love Set” after another.

Don't let the man in you die for the lack of energy, of vigorous industry, and a definite purpose in life.

The world has no more need for kaisers, kickers, and “kan’ts.”

The DAVIDSONIAN, April 2, 1919

“The biggest failure is the man who is afraid to try.” — Marden.

“The man you long to be is the man you can be.” — Success.

Seniors, your last chance to win that Debating Medal will soon pass by. What are you going to do about it?

A LASTING MEMORIAL.

We have just passed through a trying time. We have fought and have overcome not only a treacherous enemy, but also an ideal that has been gripping the world for many centuries. It seems natural then that we should want to express our appreciation to those who fought and died in the recent great struggle. In the last month or so the question of erecting a memorial has been brought before the student body and alumni several times. Last week Dr. J. M. McConnell presented it to the student body. Everyone seemed to be in favor of erecting a memorial although no decision was reached as to what form it would take. Several proposals were made. One of them was to erect a swimming pool, another to erect two memorial gates, and still another has been suggested which will take the form of a scholarship. It seems that the kind which we all want is one that will last as long as the college itself and which will through the excellence of its design, be an example, and inspiration to present and future generations. Mr. Cass Gilbert, who has taken quite an interest in war memorials in our country, has summed up the character of one of these by saying: “The most impressive monument is one which appeals to the imagination alone, which rests not upon its material...use but upon its idealism. From such a monument flows the impulse for great and heroic action, for devotion to duty and for love of country. “The Arch of Triumph in Paris, the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, are examples of such monuments. They are devoid of practical utility, but they minister to a much higher use; they compel contemplation of the great men and ideals which they commemorate; they elevate the thoughts of all beholders; they arouse and make effective the finest impulses of humanity. They are the visible symbols of the aspirations of the race. “Display of wealth, ostentation and over-elaborateness are unbecoming and vulgar. Elegant simplicity, strength with refinement, and a grace of handling that imparts charm are the ends to be sought. These ends require, on the part of everybody connected with the enterprise—committee, adviser and artist—familiarity with the standards of art, and above all good taste. Only by a combination of all these elements can a really satisfactory result be obtained.” The Davidsonian wishes to help you in securing a lasting memorial, and if in any way it can be of service, feel free to use its columns.

VITAL ASPECT OF OUR RELIGION DISCUSSED

At the last meeting of the World's Forum, Mr. Miles gave a very interesting talk on “Reality and Religion.” His talk brought out two ideas with a brief discussion on each. His first idea was the reality of individuals and of nations. Is our Christianity fit to give to other people or nations? The second point was the giving of our Christianity to other nations. Under the discussion was mentioned the fact that it so greatly benefited the army boys overseas. Everyone who heard Mr. Miles was very much impressed by what he had to say.

Varsity Material Will Be Selected.

Field Day will be held Saturday afternoon. A great deal of interest has been taken in track this spring with the result that some good records should be made in the different events. The men making the best records on Saturday will be picked to represent Davidson in the inter-collegiate meets. Probably three or four men will be sent to Atlanta to be in the All-Southern meet and six or seven to Raleigh for the State meet. The events, prizes, and donors of prizes are as follows:

100 Yard Dash—One Box Candy, by L. W. Elliot.
220 Yard Dash—One Pressing Club Ticket, by Tobe Johnson.
440 Yard Dash—$1.00 in trade, by L. B. Long.
880 Yard Run—One Pair of $1.00 Hose, by Knox & Barnette.
One Mile Run—Two pound Box of Candy, by Jetton Drug Co.
2 Mile Run—First, 10 Shaves, by Hood & Morton; second, Shoe Repair to 50c, by Gibson Shoe Co.
Pole Vault—$1.50 in White Drug Co.
High Jump—One Cake, by G. H. Beall.
Broad Jump—One Necktie, by M. H. Goodrum & Co.
Discus Throw—Bronze Medal, by W. S. Henderson.
Shot Put—$1.25 in Trade, by R. S. Johnston & Co.

Boys, these men have shown their interest in the college athletics, so don’t forget to patronize them.

DOES MINISTERIAL BAND BELIEVE IN SUFFRAGE?

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting Friday night in Shearer Hall. M. W. Moore spoke on “Woman’s Rights and the Church.” There were no lights, so the band had to shine where it was.

PHOTO FINISHING
R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING

We are receiving almost every day young men’s New Spring Suits made in the newest models, attractively priced at $18.50, 25.00, 27.50, 29.50 and 35.00. Be sure and see these when in the city.

BELK BROTHERS

All Out For Field Day

Gentlemen! When in Need of Tonsorial Work Give Us a Trial At the same place with new equipment

Hood & Norton
Next to Post Office
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Union Theological Seminary
RICHMOND, VA.
For information, address
W. W. Moore, D. D., LL. D.
President

A. H. Fetting
Manufacturer of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty St., Baltimore, Md.
Special Designs and Estimates Furnished on Medals and Rings for Athletic Meets, Etc.

A BIG IMPROVEMENT

Doing more Work and Better Work
The New Steam Press at the Old Stand
Tobe Johnson
17 Years at the Same Place

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your Rembrandt Studio.

CHARLOTTE, N. C. WILL CONVINCE YOU.
27 S. Tryon Street, Over Postal Telegraph Office
O. J. RADER, Proprietor

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.