THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, a Chemist of Wide Reputation, Is An Alumnus of Hampden-Sidney — Came to Davidson as Professor of Chemistry in 1913 — Greatly Liked by All Students

Howard Bell Arbuckle is an alumnus of Hampden-Sidney College, having received from that college the degrees of A. B. and M. A. After leaving Hampden-Sidney, he became professor of Latin and Greek in the State College of Florida. He then went to Johns Hopkins as a post-graduate student and received the Ph.D. degree. A little later he was professor of Chemistry and Biology at Agnes Scott College. While at Agnes Scott, he was president of the Georgia section of the American Chemical Society; was a councillor of the American Chemical Society; was a member of the executive committee of the Association of Southern Colleges and Preparatory Schools; and was president of the Georgia Association of Johns Hopkins Alumni.

In 1913, Dr. Arbuckle came to Davidson as professor of Chemistry. The average student is apt to forget that the genial and unobtrusive professor is also a figure of national reputation as a chemist, having added one to the list of known elements. So completely does he seem wrapped up in the work of making the ground principles of chemistry interesting and intelligible to his classes that not every student remembers the fact that Dr. Arbuckle has not only a very complete knowledge of the discoveries of other scientists but has himself added to the sum of the world’s information. Yet those who have studied under him feel that, at least so far as they are concerned, his work as an instructor is even more valuable than his work as an independent scientist. Though he is an adoptive, and not a natural son of Davidson, we are proud to claim him and to honor him as a member of the Davidson faculty.

Rev. J. T. Pharr to Wed Miss Thompson.

An approaching marriage of interest to the alumni is that of Rev. J. T. Pharr (Tim), ’12, who is to wed Miss Augusta Beatrice Thompson, of Faison, N. C. The wedding is to take place on Wednesday, the 26th of November, at eight o'clock in the evening, Presbyterian Church. Mr. and Mrs. Pharr will make their home in Renick, W. Va., where he has accepted the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Maxwell to Resume Practice in Roanoke, Va.

Capt. (Dr.) G. M. Maxwell, ‘96, was a visitor in Davidson this week. He has received his discharge from the Army and is preparing to resume his practice in Roanoke, Va. He is an eye, ear, and nose specialist.

J. N. Hillhouse Now Henry.

Mr. J. N. Hillhouse, ’13, of Vicksburg, Miss., is now in charge of the School of Photography for wounded soldiers at U. S. Hospital No. 2, Ft. McHenry, Md. He is making a great success in this school, which teaches men all kinds of photographic work, portrait, commercial, etc., and enables the soldier to have a paying occupation when he is mustered out of service. Mr. Hillhouse enlisted in the First Engineers and went to France in August 1917. He served in France as Master Signal Electrician with the Signal Corps, was with the A. E. F. for 21 months at Paris and on the different fronts. Some of his photos are works of art and have been placed on extensive sale. While at Davidson, Mr. Hillhouse and Mr. Gillespie were the managers of the Commissary, and he is still showing the same business ability in his work that he showed then. His wife and little son are with him in Baltimore.Gilbert, '19, is now located at New Bern. C. R. Jenkins is now in Charleston. Oxford next October.

Davidson Alumnus Receives Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford

Among the old Davidson men at the Carolina game were: R. C. Carter, “Dug” Elliott, “Turk” Shaw, R. H. Stone, J. T. Maddrey, Ed. Denny, ex-‘22, J. W. McAlister, ex-'19, C. M. Taylor, ‘08, E. D. Taylor, '11, “Zeb” McMillan, '17, Bailey Patrick, ex-’19, “Bill” Hollingsworth, ex-’19, Charles Mountcastle, ex-'18, G. W. Coan, '11, “Nuts” Graham, J. W. Moore, ‘12, J. D. Watt, ‘19, E. A. Woods, ‘19, A. E. Apperson, ex-'21, M. R. Watt, Rudolph Bernau, ex-'21, Malcolm Rumple, “Bill” Pharr, “Cutie” Williamson, J. E. Carter, Jack Peyton, “Ding” Bell, “Lump” Richardson, Henry Yates, Carl Craig, Jim Cobb, Wharton, ‘01, “Pebble” Stone, Harold Griffin, “Buck” Doty, Pharr, “Pap” Finley, Johnny Johnson, ex-'18, C. W. McCachren, ex-'21.

S. T. McCloy, '18, Receives Coveted Honor from State of Arkansas

Alumni and friends of Mr. S. T. McCloy, '18, will be delighted to learn of his appointment as a Rhodes student to Oxford University, from Arkansas. Mr. McCloy thoroughly deserves this honor and judging from his past record will make a most excellent representative to Oxford from Davidson. As a student, he has from the time he entered the grades made an enviable record, and in college has always been considered a leader. Mr. McCloy entered Davidson in 1914 and received the Bachelor's Degree in 1918. He returned to Davidson the following year and received the Master's Degree. While in college “Duckie” was a leader in all activities, being on the varsity track team, a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, an active literary society worker, and on the staff of the Davidsonian. He also won the Bible medal. At present, Mr. McCloy is at Union Theological Seminary and will remain there the remainder of the year as his appointment calls for his entrance to Oxford next October. The Davidsonian joins with his many friends in extending congratulations and best wishes.

W. Lovett Douglas, ex-'18, of Dunedin, Fla., spent Friday afternoon on the campus.

Rev. G. L. Petrie, D.D., '59, was the host of the Synod of Virginia in its meeting last week in the First Presbyterian Church of Charlottesville, Va.

G. S. Edwards is now engaged in business in Rocky Mt., N. C.

QUEENS COLLEGE ALUMNAE ASSOCIATION PRESENTS

JOHN McCORMACK IN A SONG RECITAL AT THE AUDITORIUM CHARLOTTE, N. C. DECEMBER THE FIRST AT 8:30 PRICES $3.50 AND $2.50 FOR RESERVATIONS ADDRESS THE SECRETARY, 315 REALTY BUILDING

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats

You will find our stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear --- the Best of Quality. Stetson Hats, Edwin Clapp Shoes, Manhattan Shirts. We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly.

MELLON’S 8, 10 WEST TRADE ST.

ENGRAVED Business and Social Stationery, Invitations, Announcements, Monograms. Holidays are nearing. Place your orders for Calling Cards and Social Stationery now so you will be sure of it then. W. A. Foil, Jr., of Davidson College is our representative.

Queen City Printing Company 14 and 16 East Fourth St, Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Drink PEPSI-COLA, Stimulating

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold