8 The DAVIDSONIAN, April 30, 1919

ALUMNI NOTES.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

The aim of honor roll men: To get 100 on their reports.
The aim of “us”: To get home before our reports.

Hugh Hamilton introduced an innovation into the Phi Society by sending Seminary absences to those who were present instead of
absentees. Monitors please take notice.

After seeing some of the hair-cuts wished off on certain of the boys, we humbly beg to suggest that local
barbers be forced to avenge certificates of proficiency before engaging.

After Vacation, What?
To College, of Course!

Regardless of whether you have to walk, ride, or fly, you must be there for the great reunion of the
Class of 1904 on May 27. It’s a little difficult to realize, isn’t it, that it has been almost fifteen
years since we passed out as a class from those historic halls? And we have not had a reunion since!
How do the boys look now, after all these years? Where have they been and what have they been doing?
How are the College and the professors and all the Davidson folk? Don’t you want to know? I do, and
so I hope to meet you all on May 27. Several other classes, among them ‘99, ‘09, and ‘14, are
going to hold their reunions on the same day, and ‘04 must be there in full force to help boost
the newly organized movement for a Greater Davidson. Alma Mater and Auld Lang Syne call. Should old acquaintance be forgot?
The answer is no. Therefore, obey that impulse and write to me today that you will be there. Remember the
date, May 27, 1919. Bring the wife and kiddies along (if any). If you have any suggestions regarding the reunion,
please let me know.

Italy’s action in the Peace Conference reminds us of boyhood days when the owner of the baseball necessities always announced,
“If you don’t let me pitch I’m gonna take my bat and ball and go home.”

Last week this paper published “The most perfect short poem in the English language.” Please note our effort at the
same:

A thousand eyes
Yet had he seen me yestereve
Ere fell the dew,
As I kissed her in the moonlight,
Under heaven’s full view.

On hospital stationery.

BUT do you know about the 20 courses Davidson offers; the entrance requirements; the assignment of rooms; the cost of
a college education? Catalogue containing this and other information will be sent free. Address: DAVIDSON COLLEGE, Davidson, N.C.Supposed to get
janitor service union, send them to me now.

BLUE RIDGE SCHOOL FOR BOYS
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

At present, it is generally a case of a man looking in your room, sometimes tearing up things a little,
and then going out. If we are to have room inspection, we ought to have white inspectors, anyway.

Sincerely and cordially yours,
Robert H. Adams.

A select home school, on Accredited List, offering to a limited number of boys, from twelve to twenty-five years old,
a more intensive system of training. Ideally located in a healthful, invigorating climate, conducive to study. Each boy's personality carefully
studied and directed by an efficient teaching staff composed of virile, patriotic men with successful teaching careers. A teacher for
every seven or eight boys insures individual attention in studies. Boys taught HOW TO STUDY. Military drill, boy-scout activities, and
all branches of athletics directed and supervised by able instructors. High moral tone; homelike, cultured environments, parental discipline. Total charges
for session, Sept. 17 to June 6, $480. Summer Term, July 1 to Aug. 26. For catalogue, address J. R.
SANDIFER, Headmaster, HENDERSONVILLE, N. C.

(Continued from page 1)

The “returned heroes” of Davidson College, along with last year's Soph. Math. Class, drilled on the Sprunt Field Friday for
the benefit of the Inspector.

Some of the many speakers and leaders of the Convention are: Mr. R. E. Speer, Dr. H. H. Horne, Dr.
Winfield Scott Hall, Dr. W. W. Alexander, Dr. C. E. Brown, Dr. E. M. Poteat, Dr. Edwin Mims. All of
these are noted lecturers and prominent men of the country.

The expenses of entertainment at Blue Ridge are a $5.00 program fee to be sent in advance, and $15.00 for
board and room for the ten days.

There is no reason why a large number of Davidson men should not attend the Conference, and from all appearances,
a great many are planning to go.

COL. AND MRS. MUELLER HAVE RETURNED

Last Thursday, one of the town boys was the discoverer of a very vicious type of fowl (not a chicken)
which, by an unexpected attack, caused him to beat a hasty retreat.

Col. and Mrs. A. H. Mueller arrived Saturday from Denver, Colorado, where they were called by the serious illness of
Mrs. Mueller’s mother. The student body will be sorry to hear of the death of Mrs. Mueller's mother. Their sympathy
goes out to Col. Mueller and Mrs. Mueller in their bereavement.

It is rumored that the class of Greek VI will give an open-air interpretation of the folk dances at an
early date. Led by Miss Priscilla Wilson and Eunuch Pharr, this should be a very enlightening spectacle.

Jessie Shields and Co. journeyed to Huntersville Sunday to render two selections at three seeds per for the C. E.
Convention exercise. “Amo” Love also gave some gratis information as to the best mode of running the Christian Endeavor Society.

Thriftlessness is shiftlessness. Put those careless coins into Thrift Stamps and those Thrift Stamps into W. S. S.

HOW IT HAPPENED

Once a year, the newsboys of a certain district of London are taken for an outing up the Thames by
a gentleman of the neighborhood, when they can bathe to their hearts’ content. As one little boy was getting into
the water, a friend observed: “I say, Bill, ain't yer dirty?”

“Yes,” replied Bill; “I missed the train last year.”—Tid-Bits.
