4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by Class of '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Five Cents per copy; $1.25 the Collegiate Year.

G. H. ASKEW................. Editor-In-Chief
E. L. CASBELL................. Managing Editor
R. R. BOULWARE............. Assignment Editor
T. B. SCHENCK............... Sporting Editor
G. H. ASKEW................. Alumni Editor
B. S. AMER................... Exchange Editor
H. A. HILL................... Forum Editor
T. H. SPENCE................ Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN............... Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON................. Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, Jr............. Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE............. Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
E. N. BOOKER
T. L. LISTON
R. CRAIG
E. CUNNINGHAM
M. GILMER
P. PRICE
C. SUMMERS

Reporters for this issue are: W. C. P. Ormand, Jr., W. C. Smith, C. S. H. Neel, R. E. McClure,
W. A. Gamble, Jr., A. B. Sanders, M. P. Calhoun.

W. M. WILSON................. Business Manager
W. M. WILSON................. Assistant Manager
L. L. McALISTER.............. Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG................... Assistant Manager
A. M. MITCHELL.............. Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

My heart sinks down when I behold the calendar on the wall.—Class of '20.

Let’s make another “holler day” Friday.

One consolation is our song has future aspirations, “O Davidson we will conquer.”

Three weeks until exams. Study early to avoid the cram.

OPEN FORUM

DAVIDSONIAN, November 20, 1919

(Editor’s Note—Any one wishing to contribute articles to the Forum, please feel at liberty to do so. Let's have more
discussion, pro or con, by the students on college problems from now on.)

The Need of a Telephone at the Gym.

How about a telephone at the Gym? At most any college you may name there is included in the equipment
of the Y. M. C. A. a telephone for the use of the students. There the students may do their
promiscuous talking and local calls, but the chief benefit derived from this system is that the operator will know where
to get you for a long distance call.

As it is a call comes in at 9 p.m. for John Jack. Probably everyone has left the Library. The
power house is locked up (as usual) and the consequence of it is that John does not get his call
unless he happens to drop in at the central office. On the other hand if there was a 'phone at
the Gym someone could answer the call and locate the man wanted at once. There is usually a crowd of
boys loitering around down at the “Y” and there is most always someone there.

You may say that this costs money. Well, so it does, but doesn’t everything cost that is useful? The writer
is not in favor of placing this cost on the Y. M. C. A. unless they feel like they can
“stand the strain.” But let the necessary funds be raised by some outside source, by popular subscription or otherwise. Anyway
it costs nothing to discuss a matter. Let's hear more on this subject.

Typo.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

(Editor’s Note: We exchange weekly with over fifty leading college publications. We shall strive through this column to reflect the
best thoughts of the college world and to publish news that will interest all who are acquainted with college life.
The Editor reserves the right, however, to criticize, misquote or burn any and all exchanges).

The success of the new system of distributing “The Tech” speaks well of the student body at Technology. The outcome
of this experiment must be a source of satisfaction, not only to those whose faith in the Technology student led
to its adoption, but to everyone connected with Institute affairs. The result of this trial warrants continuance of this method
of distribution. If the success of the scheme is permanent supporters of the honor system of conducting final examinations will
have a very strong argument favoring its adoption at the Institute—The Tech.

Better try it Tech; the honor system is a success at Davidson.

A brass band of twenty-four pieces is now being organized at Carson-Newman. The organization was begun sometime ago, and is
now practically complete. Prof. Everett has been elected chairman of business meetings, Leon Clifton, Manager, Alex. Fox, Treas., and Virgil
Jones, Secretary. The men are all enthusiastic over the class athletics. This promises to be one of the greatest years
that Davidson has ever seen in class athletics—an important branch of our college life which has been partially neglected for
the past two years.

All varsity teams depend on the class teams and the success of the college to a large degree depends on
her teams. When you neglect the physical side of your college life then all other things come to naught. For
when men fail to exercise their bodies they become a regu-

LOYALTY OF OUR ALUMNI.

Have you ever seen any member of an athletic team come back from a trip saying he wished he was
going to the college he visited? Or have you run across a student who has once gone to another college
and does not say that everything considered Davidson is preferable? Or another case, have you ever noticed a man who
has left Davidson and gone to another institution who does not claim that his first choice was best? If you
have seen such a man you will grant that he is an exception.

At the game Saturday there were men now going to Carolina wearing Davidson colors. There were others who were rooting
and backing Davidson stronger, if possible, than some of the present student body. Then why are these things so? It
is because a man does not see all the advantages of this college until he has seen others, and does
not realize the opportunities which he is enjoying until he leaves them.Where you elect your managers and captains, do not
depend on them to put out a winning team unless you rally to their support. If you can’t play, then
boost; don’t be a knocker. When your class stages a game, go out there and yell till your throats become
dry. Get that old spirit and you will sure make a grouch lose that cheery smile. Now fellows, there is
only one thing—band, prospects are bright for a good one in the near future. Mr. Ralph Cooper, of Jonesboro, has
been secured to lead the band. He is an experienced man, having played several years in a good band and
led bands for three years. Instruments have been ordered and will arrive soon.

The Orange and Blue Program
Academy Theater, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Nov. 24, 25, and 26
1. OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra.
2. PATHE NEWS—CHRISTIE COMEDY.
3. Pollard and His Little Bull.
4. Contralto and soprano E. Florence—HOBSON & BEATY.—Eileen

Hints to Fresh.
Prep. school ideas of humor are antique. Forget them. The transition from high school to college is so abrupt that
a good many men lose their sense of proportion; watch your step. Class cutting is a boomerang; lookout for the
comeback.—The Richmond Collegian.

Read the College Exchanges in the Library; Delaware college students are overjoyed at the innovation made in their chapel system.
Semi-weekly meetings have been introduced. This cause for joy is well-founded—The Targum. Wonder how this would suit Davidson College students?

All Columbia men interested in checkers are to gather in Room R., Earl Hall, at noon Monday. The object of
the meeting will be to form a checker team. Columbia Spectator. Davidson had a checker tournament last year. Why not
have another one this year?

Wrestling practice is progressing at a good pace in the opinion of G. Barish, ‘17, who at present is coaching
the team twice a week. More than twenty men, many from last year’s team, are out. There is, however, still
need for heavy men and especially for first-year men, who can be whipped into shape for next year’s team.—Columbia Spectator.
Cummings and Roberts, why not get up a large wrestling team for Davidson?

“Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: ‘I’ve flunked again.’” Don’t kid yourself, you've got
a good line; the professor has been in the business longer than you have.—The Richmond Collegian.

Oh, the pink ham may vanish away
And the pie be transformed to ice cream,
But still ‘tis the sweet gentle bean
That over the table holds sway.
—The Sun Dial.

I never saw a purple cow,
I never hope to see one;
But, judging from the milk, somehow
I feel that there must be one.
—The Sun Dial.

The fact remains, however, that when a man is once imbued with the true spirit of Davidson, no matter where
his aspirations may lead him, he is an ardent disciple of the Red and Black.

SCHOOL SPIRIT GONE WRONG.
To bet or not to bet was the question put up to the Davidson supporters in the State College game
by a member of the opposing student body. Were the students not supporting the team properly by refusing to put
their money up or were they showing a truer, better spirit by laughing at the half-shot specimen who continually waved
money in front of the Davidson stands? The problem resolves itself into the proposition, “Are betting and college spirit compatible?”
If they are, then we are lacking in that element. To bet on your team gives the wrong incentive toward
winning. The desire to conquer evolves from financial reasons rather than from loyalty to their cause. The interest is in
the money, not in the sport. When a man has lost money on a game, invariably he begins to knock
the team. He tries to recover and probably loses more. Naturally, he again begins to criticize and find fault with
the playing. A chronic grumbler finds little trouble in locating others who will grumble with him until the feeling will
spread among the students and probably to the team itself. We contend that betting is not backing your team. Let
us hope that the spirit of this college will never be exemplified in the public display of a frantic desire
to bet as we have recently seen in the games of the past few weeks.

This old college is a fit place for your predecessors to come. It is not the fault of the class,
but of yourself if you are not a booster of '20 or ’21 or whatever it happens to be. Your
class is depending on you as to what you will give to it. Get it out of your head that
your class or college owes you anything. They owe you nothing, but you owe everything in your better self to
them. So fellows, and to you new men especially, when your manager calls for you to come out on the
field, don’t say, “Well, there is enough without me.” What if every man in college would say that, what would
be the result? You can't always sometimes tell what you can do till you make a try. Come on out
and make good despite the odds. The chances are that you can represent your class in some great event. Get
that old class spirit and hit the guy on the “mug” that is continually knocking.

A certain Senior who had six straights one day last year says times were rather slack when he had seven
classes during all of last week. We hear occasionally of Davidson men on the faculty of McCauley; some there now
are: Ada Wilcox, '11; Russel Woods, '18; Pat Robinson, '19.

Two Different Girls and a piano.
A VAUDEVILLE SURPRISE.
VAUDEVILLE’S LATEST SENSATION.
THREE REGALS
The Blacksmiths.

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 27, 28, and 29
1. OVERTURE—Academy Orchestra.
2. PATHE NEWS—ROLIN COMEDY.
3. Frank—THE BRIGHTONS—Addie
Artistic Ragpickers Present Their Original Novelty Creation From Odds to Ends.
4. TIP TOP FOUR
Quartette and Real Singing Comedians.
5. Ernest ANDERSON & BURT—Marjorie
An Amusing Episode Founded on The Science of Domestic Harmony, entitled “HOME, SWEET HOME.”
6. DOC O'NEIL
With His New Laugh Prescriptions and Infallible Anti-Gloom Remedy (Guaranteed Under the Pure Fun Law)
7. AL. GOLEM CO.
18—The Court Artists—18 Of His Majesty the SHAH OF PERSIA
The Slave Dealers.
