THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

S.M.B. News

Well-Known Secretary of Christian Endeavor Here

STOP, LOOK AND READ.

Fellows, are the Bible classes going to have a full attendance next Sunday? Remember these classes belong to each individual. To attend is our opportunity and not something that must be done. Just give the following a thought or possibly two: How can college men make a just return for their special opportunities? You and I—to the right or left? Fellows, the above are worth consideration. It is up to you.

Karl Lehmann Speaks on “Four-Square Christian Endeavorers”

Karl Lehmann, executive secretary of the Christian Endeavor work in the South, spoke in the church Wednesday afternoon, bringing his usual helpful message on Christian Endeavor and Christian service.

Mr. Lehmann told of the great denominational and international fellowship of Christian Endeavor, which is represented in eighty-seven denominations in nearly every country in the world. He also told of the great growth of Christian Endeavor in the South, where three thousand new societies have been organized in the past four years on a goal of one thousand in five years.

In his address, Mr. Lehmann said that a “four-square Endeavorer” is an optimist, is consecrated to Jesus Christ, is enthusiastic in his work, and believes in and practices service for Christ. He told a touching story of the sacrifice of a Canadian Endeavorer, who gave up all his limbs and part of his face in France for the safety and peace of the world, and said that Jesus Christ made a greater and more complete sacrifice for us than any soldier ever made. The address was very helpful.

A Christian Endeavor conference on methods will be held in Charlotte on October 26th, and there will probably be a delegation from Davidson to attend.

RECORD BROKEN BY BIBLE CLASSES—SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Lookout, Tech! Davidson Bible classes show an increase in attendance of fifty-three men over last week. Second and third floors Watts, second floor East Rumple, and first floor North Chambers had 100 percent. The total attendance by dormitories was:

Chambers, 105 out of 125; 84 percent.
Rumple, 52 out of 68; 76 percent.
Louisiana, 16 out of 19; 84 percent.
Total, 263 out of 319; 82 percent.

Forty to fifty men are out in town and the rest were off the hill. Fellows, let’s keep the attendance up. The Sunday school report was also encouraging:

Watts, 49 out of 51; 96 percent.
Georgia, 41 out of 56; 73 percent.
Rumple, 52 out of 68; 76 percent.

FIRST MEETING OF DAVIDSON'S PRESBYTERY

The Ministerial Band held its regular weekly meeting at 6:10 p.m. Sunday night. As this was the Sunday for the band to meet as a Presbytery, the moderator, C. A. McGirt, presided, and as the recording clerk was absent, an acting clerk was appointed.

Neel gave a report of the program committees. This was followed by the election of new officers. W. C. Neel was elected moderator and J. M. Richards recording clerk. McClure discussed the history of the band, which is now ten years old, showing that Davidson has sent sixty or seventy missionaries.

Some discussion as to the life and work of a ministerial candidate followed the reading of a resolution brought up by the Georgia-Watts session. This resolution was adopted and a committee appointed to bring in a report on it at the next meeting of Presbytery.

SEVERAL GOOD THOUGHTS DEVELOPED AT MEETING OF VOLUNTEER BAND

The Student Volunteers held a very interesting meeting at 1 o'clock Sunday. Price then made a talk on the plans of the band for this year, discussing the organization and objects of the band and showing that one of the chief objectives should be...be near the PLACE town session and Mauve and Cummings discussed the Student Volunteer Movement activities. He spoke of the activities of the ministerial candidates from Rumple. The program for the next two months is as follows:

1. Work of Our Preparatory Schools - J. M. Richards.
2. Work of Our Colleges - H. C. Hamilton.
3. Work of Our Seminaries - K. B. McCutcheon.

Oct. 26—Book Review, L. G. Calhoun, W. H. Harrell, and W. P. Cumming.
Nov. 3—Candidates and Current Events, Mr. Miles.
Nov. 17—Call of Home Mission Fields, R. Bitzer and W. C. Neel.

Every subject on this program is of interest to each member of the band. On the Sundays not listed on this program, the band will meet in the form of a Presbytery. These, just as the regular meetings, will be very helpful.

ASSISTANTS FOR COMING YEAR ANNOUNCED.

After due consideration, the faculty has selected the following students as reading and laboratory assistants:

Bible—O. P. Hart, R. E. McClure.
Biology—J. S. Brown, L. L. McAlister, R. R. Craig.
Chemistry—L. P. Good, A. L. Foster, R. Boulware.
English—H. C. Hamilton, R. T. Liston, J. E. Cassell.
History—G. D. Sample, J. M. Richards.
Latin—R. T. Liston.
Law—H. B. Brown.
Mathematics—J. C. McCaskill, J. P. Price.
Physics—O. P. Hart, L. G. Calhoun, A. L. Wilson, K. B. McCutcheon, P. B. Carwile, J. P. Price.
Public Speaking—A. D. McArn, R. R. Craig.
French—R. R. McIlwaine.
Accounting—L. P. Good.
Monitors—S. H. Askew, C. N. Morgan, J. C. Bailey, E. N. Booker, E. H. Jufts.
Absence Committee—D. M. Chalmers, W. P. Cumming.

The Volunteer Band had a meeting Sunday afternoon somewhat different from the ordinary. The object of this was primarily to plan its program for the coming year. It was agreed that there must be a definite objective. The plan adopted was to take up a study of missionary biographies. The question of what the members thought of having the state conference at Davidson next spring was fully discussed. Everyone felt that if the plans could be carried out, it would be worth quite a great deal to everyone. The band then closed, each one feeling that he was going to try to do his best to make the band what it should be.

Attention, Davidson Boys:
I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed. GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.
HARRIS PRESSING CLUB
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES, AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

See our line of Oil, Wood, and Coal Heaters at the Davidson Hardware Co.