The DAVIDSONIAN, April 16, 1919

Sermon By Dr. Whaling | Let’s Get Virginia On
Last Sunday Morning | to Charlotte Thursday

Points Out that Every Man Is Fitted | All “Dope” Points to a Snappy Game.
For Some Special Work. Show Your “Pep.”

Dr. Whaling, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, preached at the morning service last Sunday. His subject was the calling of Christ's disciples. God's hand always works to shape and fit men for their various occupations of life, both for the good of mankind and for the welfare of Christ's Kingdom. The work of God is accomplished through men who carry out his work on earth. Dr. Whaling treated four aspects of the choice of the disciples.

In the first place, Jesus made the choice. The responsibility of the choice is thus shown. Each person should be prepared to heed the call which God gives him. The saddest thing that could happen would be to receive a call and not heed it.

Another point brought out was the great privilege these men enjoyed upon being chosen disciples. Just as a teacher makes his school what it is, so did Jesus make his disciples what they were. The call which God gives men is no louder than the acknowledgment of his word. The greater responsibilities will rest on those who are best able to bear them.

The unlikeness of the twelve disciples was necessary in order to cover the breadth and scope of Christ’s mission. The world would be a very dreary place in which to live if all men were alike in their habits and modes of living. Just such would have been the case of the twelve had they all been alike. Christ develops each man according to his habits and ability.

Finally, Christ chose men who were otherwise unknown. This clearly shows the responsibility resting on each individual to do his part, however small. Christ is the one supreme model. In the life of each, two calls came: the one the call to the church; the other a call to service. Each must in some way answer these calls.

SIGMA UPSILON INITIATES NEW MEN.

At a recent meeting of the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon fraternity, the following men from the Junior class were initiated: W. F. Hall, Jr., A. L. Wilson, Jr., S. H. Askew, H. B. Brown, D. W. Roberts, and J. W. Witherspoon.

The costumes in which the new members appeared for initiation were well gotten up and the selections which they offered were highly entertaining. After the initiation, refreshments were served, which were enjoyed by all present.

It is a matter of especial notice that in every department of applied science we have to deal with the unseen. All forces, whether in physics, mechanics, or electricity, are invisible—A. Mackay.

THE WAR IS OVER

But We Continue to Deliver
THE BEST FRESH MEAT

PHONE ORDERS SOLICITED

White’s Market

Phone 25-W Cornelius, N. C.

PHOTO FINISHING

R. R. McILWAINE
ENLARGING

From all the dope available, the game with the University of Virginia in Charlotte tomorrow is going to be the biggest thing this season. We have already received a letter from their manager explaining in full detail why they are going to win and warning us that they are out scalp-hunting. Their squad this season includes several men of last year’s team and a bunch of old veterans returned from the army. In other words, according to their figures, they mean to win, but what it takes to spill the old dope, that's what we've got the most of.

As the Soph banquet will be held on the same night, that class will be well represented and it is hoped that the rest of the fans can get off and show the team who's behind them. Fill the jitney to the point of danger, then hire all the cars in town and let's celebrate!

“Skirt Model Suits”

Just received 100 new Skirt Model Suits in plain blue, brown, and green, also fancy patterns marked special at $19.50, $25.00, $27.50, and $29.50.
WE SELL IT FOR LESS
BELK BROTHERS

Z. K. JUSTICE
DENTIST

Office Over Bank
Hours: 9:00 to 12:00---2:00 to 4:00

R. S. Johnson Co.

FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY

210 South Tryon St.,

SPALDING BASE BALL EQUIPMENT

Uniforms, Belts, Stockings, Shoes, Bats, Balls, Gloves, Masks, Etc.

Catalogue on request

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
74 N. Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga.

A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies

Columbia Theological Seminary

Columbia, South Carolina

For information and catalogues write the president
Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling

See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Engraved Work a Specialty

THE PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
(Phone 643)

CHARLOTTE
C. J. MATTHEWS, Representative
We Feature All Military Publications And carry the most complete line of Books, Stationery, and Gifts In North Carolina

BROCKMANN’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mail Orders a Specialty

The Bank of Davidson

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is solicited

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier.
S. Lee Sloan, V-Pres.
W. B. Barnette, Assistant Cashier