With the Alumni

Lieut. Dan Nuttall has left for Atlanta to accept a position in the offices of the Southern Railway. Nuttall was
in the service and was mustered out several weeks ago. He was stationed at Fort Sill, Okla.

A cable received recently from Dr. J. W. McConnell stated that he would be delayed at Clisson, France, several weeks,
and would not return to America immediately.

A letter received by George W. Wilson from Maj. Hamilton McKay, '06, stated that he had agreed to remain in
France at the request of General Noble to have charge of surgical work of Base Hospital No. 2 at the
Ancona, France. Major McKay was a member of the Brenizer hospital unit and he was anticipating an early return to
America when he was requested to remain overseas for this duty. He was informed by the commanding officer of the
base hospital that he had the privilege to return home with the Brenizer unit if he desired, but Major McKay
agreed to remain overseas. He recently was promoted from captain to major. He wrote Mr. Wilson that he may be
in France for several months yet. Before leaving Charlotte with the Brenizer unit, in 1917, Major McKay was associated in
the practice of medicine with Dr. B.C. Nalle.

Dr. Robert C. Sample, '11, chief surgeon on the U.S.S. President Grant, sailed recently from Hoboken, N.J. for Saint Nazaire,
France. This makes his fourth trip overseas.

Sgt. Lex Klutz, '15, H. 36, A.E.F., writes from France: “Am now a member of H. 36 returning to go
to Univ. of Edinburgh, Oxford, or Univ. of Paris. On Saturday past met Edward and White, formerly of Davidson.”

J. B.C. Siske, '19, is now a District Judge Advocate, A.P.O. 792, A.E.F.

"WHO'S WHO" ON OUR SERVICE FLAG

Lt. Col. Thomas D. Osborne, of Charlotte, N.C., was a student at Davidson College in the class of 1901. After
leaving this school he entered West Point, graduating as second lieutenant I.A. in 1905. His career in the army has
been a very successful one, being made first lieutenant F.A. in 1907, captain in 1916, and at the entrance of
our nation into the world war he was stationed at Camp Sherman, Chillicothe, O., where he was made lieutenant colonel
322 F.A., 83 Division, National Army. It has been impossible to secure his present address, as well as any information
concerning him during the closing months of the war.

Lt. Col. Ben Everett Scott, of Graham, N.C., was one of the most attractive students that ever graduated at Davidson.
He belonged to the class of '07, and took an active part in all college activities. He was a member
of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity, business manager of Quips and Cranks, as well as engaging in football and track work.
At the entrance of our country into the war he gave up a lucrative cotton business to enter the army.
Receiving his commission, he was soon made major at Camp Sevier, Greenville, S.C., and after being sent overseas attained the
rank of lieutenant colonel.

The DAVIDSONIAN, March 19, 1919

Tennis Contest Will Begin On Monday

Numerous Applications Received for Both Singles and Doubles.

With the setting in of the spring weather, many tennis enthusiasts are out limbering up their arms and getting their
favorite strokes perfected in view of entering the near-at-hand tennis tournament. The first round of this tournament is scheduled to
begin on Monday, March 24. The finals will be completed by the end of the week. The tournament will consist
of matches in singles and doubles. Any contestant is allowed to enter both. The entrance fee is 50 cents for
the singles and 25 cents for each contestant in the doubles. Many entrants have already applied, and it is hoped
that more will come out. In order to stimulate this activity on the Davidson campus, the Athletic Association has recognized
tennis as a popular form of athletics and has voted to award the winner in the singles, from this season
on, the coveted "D".Men officially come out and try for the tennis team. It is not unlikely that "D's" will
be awarded in both singles and doubles. Especially is this true in case the Davidson tennis team makes a good
showing in the several intercollegiate contests it has arranged for this year. Get out the old racquet and limber up
during the few days that precede the tournament, and help stimulate this popular sport on the Hill.

MYSTERIOUS PHOTO-MAN'S IDENTITY DISCLOSED

For the information of those whose curiosity may have been aroused over the actions of a gentleman who seemed to
be diagnosing the campus for the past few days, it is stated that this was Mr. Benson, of the W.
A. Daniels Co., who has been on the Hill getting a bird’s-eye view of Davidson College. This view, a copy
of which has been on display in the book room, will be used in the new catalogs which are now
being printed. Plans are under consideration for the getting up of attractive advertising matter to be sent to prospective new
students in order that they may get a fairly accurate idea of what Davidson is and of what is going
on at this institution, but as yet nothing definite has been determined.

CHECKS FOR SIXTY BEGIN TO COME IN

Much interest has been created by the orders that have been published by the War Department in regard to a
$60 bonus to be paid to all discharged soldiers not having received the same at the time of their discharge.
The announcement stated that $60 would be paid to all discharged soldiers in order that their papers reached Washington. The
papers are to include the discharge papers, and for the safety of the return of this paper, a certificate signed
by the commandant. Lt. Col. Mueller has posted the correct form of letter to be sent to the government, and
the majority of the students have sent their papers in. Some have already received their bonus within two weeks.

Go ask father, she said.
And she knew that I knew that her father was dead;
And she knew that I knew what a life he had led;
And she knew that I knew
What she meant when she said
Go ask father
—G. P.

THE NEW WATCH ON THE RHINE
(Continued from page 3)

The Atlantic, they would have flung him into its lowest keep a dangerous lunatic. The fortress, which copies the old
hilltop castles of which the weather-battered ruins still frown down on the Rhine, was reared on the site of just
such a stronghold as had stood for centuries there at the junction of the Rhine and Moselle. It is hollowed
out, from just such a sheer-riverside rock as the Lorelei itself. Its vast underground chambers will billet a hundred thousand
men. By spiral paths that lead, through tunnels and over drawbridges, you reach at last its battlements, which rise full
385 feet above the river bed. From them you can see triangular Coblenz laid out like a relief map at
the base of the fortress and survey the historic countryside from Stolzenfels to Andernach. Baedeker’s account of Ehrenbreitstein is accurate,
though vague. It contains what today is a serious error. It says: “Foreign officers are not admitted.” Correct this to
read: “German officers,” and the sentence may stand. From Ehrenbreitstein itself, which is a small town opposite Coblenz, the bridgehead
reaches for 30 kilometers into Germany.
—Association Men.

Affirmative (Freshman debating society)—And it’s reported from Holland that concrete bases for German cannon have been found.
Negative (Interrupting)—You can’t believe a word you hear from Holland. Even geography says that it is a low, lying country.

A double wedding might properly be termed a four-in-hand tie.

From the foremost in Smart, Stylish Suits FOR YOUNG MEN

We have received by Express 100 SUITS from the makers of Men’s Fine Clothes. The Latest Styles and Fabrics. We
hope to have the opportunity of showing you.

—EVERYTHING IN MEN’S WEAR—

ED. MELLON CO.

Exclusive Agents for A. J. REACH & CO’S. ATHLETIC GOODS
BALLS, MITS, STOCKINGS, BATS AND GLOVES
Come In and Look Them Over

F. A. THOMAS
18 Rumple

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
— EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold
