6 The DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1919

Debating Cup Goes To Phi Society
Chalmers and Woods to Receive Medals for Best Individual Work.

The Junior-Senior Inter-Society debate was held in the Eumenean Society hall Wednesday night. This debate decides the possession of the
Alumni Debating Cup, which goes to the society winning the decision in this debate. The subject of the debate was:
Resolved, "That the R. O. T. C. units should be permanently continued by the United States." The Philanthropic Society, represented
by Messrs. Spence, Chalmers, and C. B. Alexander, upheld the affirmative. The Eumenean Society, represented by Messrs. McGirt, Woods, and
Liston, upheld the negative. The judges were Drs. Sentelle and McConnell, and Profs. Reed, Douglas, and Currie. The decision was
rendered in favor of the affirmative. Mr. Chalmers for the Philanthropic and Mr. Woods for the Eumenean Society were chosen
as presenting the best debate for their respective sides, and will receive medals at commencement. The speakers all gave evidence
of careful preparation and delivered their speeches with unusual expressiveness. The speakers were interested in the debate and so made
it spirited and entertaining.

An unusually large number of students were at the "Y" vesper service last Sunday evening to hear Professor Garnand. A
few songs and a well-played violin solo by C. E. Cunningham. The subject chosen by Professor Garnand was: "The Idea
of Christian Education," and he gave the audience some new thoughts on this interesting subject. We are face to face,
said Dr. Garnand, with a great problem. We have at last succeeded in making the world safe for democracy. But
we have awakened to find that democracy is not always safe for the world. Russia and Mexico are two dangerous
illustrations of this. In Mexico, for instance, superstition, religion, and ignorance are the cause of her unsettled condition. If Mexico
had a Christian education, she would not have descended into the present state of corruption and disintegration. A democracy requires
a higher order of intelligence than a monarchy. The Christian Church has an opportunity of doing what our government cannot
do by educating the Mexicans. The conditions are largely the same in Russia. If the people themselves are not all
right, a democracy cannot succeed. We won the war by force of men and cannon. But a people’s morals cannot
be changed in that manner. This is the Church's opportunity. And the Christ realizes that for such problems Christ is
the only solution. Treaties or leagues of nations are of no avail, nor are prohibition, equal suffrage, and many other
suggested reforms. This is the cause for the billion-dollar campaign that the Protestant church in the United States is going
to launch and finish before the end of this year. Increased missionary forces, new schools, and advancement of Christianity over
the whole world will result from the campaign. But this cannot be done without men. And it is the purpose
of the Christian College to fit men for this manner of work by imbuing in them the high principles and
noble characteristics of a Christian education. The meeting was opened by

QUIPS AND CRANKS TO BE HUGE SUCCESS.
Will Not Be Delivered Until Summer.

The 1919 volume of Quips and Cranks promises to be one of the best that has ever been published for
the institution. Although the management has been pushed for time in getting the book out this spring, due to late
delivery of cuts, the book will be delivered not later than the first of July. The book will be entirely
different from its kind that has been published at Davidson in a long time. All students who will not be
at their homes during the summer will please write to S. M. Gilbert, Montreat, N. C., giving him your present
address so that you will not be delayed in getting your book.

Mr. J. B. Proctor, of the University of North Carolina, was on the Hill Saturday visiting friends. Does this look
good to you?

VISITORS ON THE HILL.

Mr. J. C. Snoddy, of Red Springs, N. C., was here a few hours Friday to see his son, Mr.
W. M. Snoddy, '22. Messrs. Adams, '16, and Marvin and Misses Cunningham and Brannon, who motored down from Statesville, were
guests of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity Saturday afternoon. Mrs. Askew, of Atlanta, Ga., was here Saturday and Sunday to
see her son, Mr. S. H. Askew, '20. Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Holmes, of Lexington, N. C., were on
the Hill Sunday visiting their son, Mr. R. W. Holmes, '22. Among Sunday's visitors were Mr. and Mrs. C. E.
McCrary, of Lexington, who were here to see their son, Mr.J. A. McCrary, 22. Let’s go to Blue Ridge, then.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS FINE: BIBLE CLASSES ALSO GOOD

Although there were three less in the Bible classes Sunday than last week, the attendance was very good. Rumple led
with 41. North Wing Chambers was next with 29, Georgian had 27, Watts had 26, and South Wing Chambers had
23. The total attendance was 146.

The Sunday Schools had the best attendance of the year. There were 23 teachers and a total of 309. Shearer
Chapel had two teachers and 64; Cornelius had four teachers and 59; Caldwell had seven teachers and 50; Brawleys had
four teachers and 53; the Mill Chapel had three teachers and 49; while Oak Grove was last with three teachers
and 18.

SIGMA UPSILON DISCUSSES O. HENRY'S WORKS

The Sigma Upsilon Society met last Wednesday night. The subject for discussion was the works of O. Henry—William Sidney Porter
as he is known outside of the literary world. The discussion was informal and everyone took part in it. Some
of his works had been read by the members and were reported on, while different phases of his life were
discussed also. Sandwiches and punch were served and the meeting adjourned. This was the last meeting of the Sigma Upsilon
during this year. Each member is to do as much reading this summer as possible and next fall they are
to tell what author they found most interesting and why.

As a result of the argument that red butter comes from a red cow, “Babe” Sherrill was wet in front
of Rumple Thursday evening. Upon retreating to his room he found himself seated in a pond of water in his
bed. Sherrill’s anger was kindled and he wanted to know who had committed this crime. It was here that “Red”
Smith appeared upon the scene, and said: “I did it and am proud of it.” As a result of changing
clothes in the middle of the week “Babe” is suffering from a severe cold.

Since there was no “fire” at 7:11 last Monday night, there was no need for the “fire” department.

“D” Club to Get Busy Soon

A Large Number of Men Soon to Receive their “Baptism.”

With baseball season completed, the “D” Club will increase its membership considerably. Besides the baseball men, there are the tennis,
track and back letters to be awarded. Following are the new men winning their “D” in baseball: “Cop” Johnson, Harry
Sample, “Dug” McArn, “Joe” Miller, J. D. Watt, basketball manager, and Frank Hall, tennis champ, will also be taken in.
The track men to be initiated will probably be Craig, Finley, Brice, Sprunt and McLeod.

Prospects for good teams next year are good. Only a few men will be lost from the “D” Club by
graduation and Davidson should turn out some fast teams. In football, Spann, McAlister, Massie, Douglass, Fishel, McMaster, and Brady will
be back. Jonny Johnson will probably return. The loss of Robson at guard will be felt, as this place will
be hard to fill, if it is to be held down like it was this year.

Basketball suffers the worst losses. Only three men are certain to return. These are “Prep” Hall, Chalmers, and Schenck. Harrington
is undecided but hopes to return. Davenport, the only man on this year's quint who was shooting accurately, will graduate.
McAskill, our center and captain, will also graduate and incidentally leave a big gap at that position. The loss of
these two men will cause a breach, which will be hard to fill.

The baseball team will lose three men, but among these is found the mainstay of this year’s team. Miller, Boswell
and Clark graduate. The loss of “Railroad” Clark is regretted deeply because he has been the one conspicuous figure on
this year’s nine. Holding up the heavy end of the pitching staff, Clark has done A-1 work in all games.
The following men will return: Johnson, Currie, Miley, Sample, McArn, Ratchford, Cassell, Richards and Spann.

In track, Craig, our crack distance runner, will be lost. Those returning will be Murray, McQueen, Finley, Brice, Sprunt, and
McLeod. Frank Hall, tennis champ, will be back. All right, fellows, let's give fifteen for the fellows that upheld the
pride of Davidson, and wish them success as they step out into their life's work. Think, eat, and sleep on
Davidson during the summer—and talk it up. In September, come back ready to fight for the teams of Greater Davidson.

BOYS! Now that hot weather is here, keep cool by wearing Szoors-Schaefer Kool Kloths made especially for you, from the
very latest patterns. We guarantee satisfaction on every deal.

GILBERT & McARN REPRESENTATIVES No. 13 CHAMBERS
