The DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1919

Societies Divide On The Irish Question

Every Man Active In Campus Y. M. C. A.

Eus. Want Home Rule Bill at Once; Phis. Are Conservative.

SCHEDULE FOR FEB. 15, ‘19.

Debate: “Resolved, That Secretary Daniels’ recent naval program should be adopted.”

Eumenean:
Affirmative: Turner, Askew
Negative: Dunlap, W. B., Dougett, Mathews, Gilmer

Declamations: Grille, Gunn

Orations: Harrell, Brown, H. B.

Philanthropic:
Affirmative: Chalmers, Lilly
Negative: Davis, McCrary, Voms, Clark

Declamations: Denny, Smith, Gaston, J. M., Currie, A. L.

Extemporaneous Debate:
Affirmative: Peters
Negative: McAlister

Phi Society Meeting.

A short but very interesting program was held by the Phi Society, Saturday night. In spite of the fact the time for the speakers was cut short on account of the basketball game, the debate proved to be one of the most interesting held this term. The query was: “Resolved, That Ireland should be given Home Rule.” The affirmative was upheld by Boney and LaFar, who advanced the following points: (1) The Irish have served Great Britain well in the recent war; (2) Religious sentiment keeps the Irish under British rule. The negative was defended by Rogers and Poole, who used logical and convincing points, namely: (1) Britain's position demands the Irish ports for her protection; (2) The majority in Ireland are in favor of Home Rule. In the rebuttal, the negative not only tore down the contending points, but also turned some of them in favor of their own side. The judges, Hart, Alexander, and Sample, decided two to one in favor of the negative. A declamation, “The Flag Maker,” was given by Tuft. Spence gave an oration on the Irish question which added humor to the meeting. L. B. McKeithan delivered a timely oration on “America’s benefits from the recent war.” The president urged all new men to enter the Fresh-Soph debating contest to be held March 17.

Eumenean Meeting.

The Eumenean Society program last Saturday night was very interesting and was not lacking in enthusiasm. S. A. Burgess was elected to membership in the society. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That the bill giving the Irish Home Rule should be made effective at once.” R. T. L. Liston, first speaker for the affirmative, introduced the question and gave the history of Irish oppression and their attempts to obtain Home Rule in a very forceful manner. C. B. Robson was first speaker on the negative. He contended that Ireland was ruled through the British Parliament just as Wales, Scotland, and England. The next speaker on the affirmative was R. H. Boyd, who argued that Ireland deserved equal privileges with Canada and other English possessions who have Home Rule. Brittenhirt was the second speaker for the negative. T. N. Atkinson, last speaker for the affirmative, gave present conditions.

Decides on This Goal.

Last Tuesday night saw the inauguration of a new system of operating the “Y” on the campus. Mr. Miles, as usual, was at the bottom of the new plan. He chose, as the time for presenting, a “feed” of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet members and committeemen at the Henderson Hotel. Most of the boys went to the “feed” mainly to “get something to eat,” and they were not disappointed. But in addition, they got something better. There was not a person there that night who did not leave with a vision of a better and more energetic Y. M. C. A. for Davidson College. The plan, as explained by Mr. Miles, proposes to have every man on the campus in an organization which will resemble a Company. Mr. Miles is the commander-in-chief, the president of Y. M. C. A. is the colonel. The cabinet members are the lieutenants, the assistants are the corporals, and every other man in college is in a squad. There are seven men on the cabinet. Each of these has five men under him as assistants. These forty-two men make what is known as the Promotion Committee. Each member of this committee has six or seven men under him. It is his duty to see that every man on his committee is taking the proper interest in the “Y” meetings, and remind him when there is any special “Y” work to be done. When any man lacks interest in the “Y” meetings, the cabinet members look him up and find the man whose committee he is on. Thus the responsibility is placed definitely on somebody and when anything goes wrong the officers can place their finger on the sore spot at once. The Promotion Committee is not an untried theory. It has already proved its worth at several colleges which have adopted it. It was under the Promotion Committee system that the University of Georgia raised the record.amount for Southern colleges in the United War Work Drive last fall, $30,000. It can be a success here at Davidson College if the student body gets behind it. It will date a new era for the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson—if you are willing to back it. Do your share.

tions of Ireland and contended that all reasons for the delay of the bill that might exist in their borders had been removed. Cellar closed the debate for the negative by arguing concrete reasons why Ireland was in a better condition than English possessions who had Home Rule. The rebuttals were brief as the time for each speaker had been limited to five minutes. The judges and the house decided in favor of the affirmative.

W. W. Moore gave as a declamation one of the Roman gladiatorial addresses. G. M. Robson gave a very instructive oration on the “Effectiveness of the platoon as a fighting unit.” H. B. Dendy was elected marshal to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of S. I. McCloy.

LAST FALL'S HONOR ROLL.
Junior—A. L. Foscue, 95.80.
Soph—W. P. Cumming, 95.86.
Fresh—J. P. Price, 95.94; J. M. Richards, 95.94.

The friends of Mrs. Vinson will be glad to learn of her recovery from her recent spell of illness and that she is able to be out again. Mr. R. L. Miles preached in the First Church in Salisbury last Sunday.

TOWN NEWS
Mrs. W. H. Wooten left Friday night for Washington, D.C., where she was to join her sister, Miss Rena Potts. From there they will go to New York City, where Miss Potts will buy her spring millinery. The friends of Miss Mary Lafferty were glad to have her with them for a few days last week. The Ladies’ Missionary Society, the Young Ladies’ Missionary Society, the Christian Endeavor, the Sunshine Band, and the Penny Gleaners held a joint meeting in the Sunday school room last Thursday. We were sorry to learn that Lieutenant Dennard has been suffering with a severe "crick" in his neck, and hope he will soon be well. Miss Lyons, of Greenville, Tenn., is making a visit at the home of Dr. M. E. Sentelle. Miss Myrtle Houston, who formerly lived in Davidson, is spending a few weeks here now remodeling her house next to the post office. Misses Johnsie and Bonnie Shelton have returned home from Hope Mills, N.C., where they were teaching, on account of influenza in their school. Mrs. Bowen is on a short visit to her mother, Mrs. Henderson. Miss Minnie Schofield has returned home from Dr. Long's Sanitarium, Statesville. Her condition is much improved. News was received from Louis Johnson a few days ago that he had won the Distinguished Service Cross for bravery in action. He is one of sixteen of his division to receive this honor. He is with the Machine Gun Company, 120th Infantry. The executive committee of the Concord Presbyterial met February 10 with Mrs. Richards. Those present were Mrs. Watts, Mrs. Orr, and Miss Parker, all of Statesville, and Miss Maud Vinson and Mrs. Richards, of Davidson.

DICK'S LAUNDRY
GREENSBORO, N.C.
G. W. BLACK, Agt.
Have your laundry Monday night.

A Reflection
Every time you look in a glass you'll pat yourself on the back for ordering a real BEAU BRUMMEL SUIT as tailored by the Storrs-Schaeffer Co., of Cincinnati. Here’s a “Tip”: Get in early while our stock of woolens and Kool Kloths are complete, and get that suit for JUNIOR SPEAKING and remember You Do Not take a Chance. For we guarantee the suit to please you in every way or you do not take it. Fair enough, isn’t it? Walk into 13 Chambers first floor North Wing and let us show you our line.

GILBERT and McARN
Representatives
Skitt’s Old Place

Miss Wills, who has been visiting her sister, Mrs. Wallace, has returned to her home in Greenville, Tenn. Misses Grimes and Heileg, Mrs. Grimes, and Mr. and Mrs. Webb motored over from Salisbury Saturday afternoon to visit Mr. and Mrs. Miles. Mr. Mooney is the proud father of a son, born last Friday. Miss Margaret Finlayson, niece of Mrs. F. L. Jackson, has come to spend the rest of the winter here and enter the high school. Mrs. Miley has been spending the past week with her daughter, Mrs. Frank Matthews, in Charlotte. The mother and sister of Mrs. W. W. Woods, from Lewisburg, W. Va., are expected this week to make a visit to Davidson. Miss Mildred Johnston, who has been home for a short while, has returned to her position teaching school at Shelby. Dr. H. S. Monroe is visiting his mother and father in town for a week or so.

A Full Line Of
Cigars, Cigarettes
Candy
Chewing Gum
Cold Drinks
Homemade Cakes
Candies and Sandwiches
Geo. H. Beall, Jr.