THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 1, 1919

Your Clothing Store

That’s what we are trying to make of the Lingle Clothing Store. It is you that we are trying to
please and serve. We offer you merchandise that we can stand behind and guarantee to give satisfactory wear and at
prices based on the lowest possible selling expense—these prices the same to all. We ask no favor of you other
than that you give us a chance to show you and that you carefully compare our prices, considering quality always.
You decide whether you will give us your patronage on a basis of merit only. Grant us this favor and
we have no doubt but what you will make our clothing store your clothing store.

OUR GUARANTEE: Any and every Suit, Coat, Hat or Cap you buy from us is guaranteed to give satisfactory wear
as you have a right to expect. We will do what you think necessary to satisfy you, even to replace
with new garments.

Lingle Clothing Company

203 West Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
B. A. Lingle Phone 3113 D. A. Presley

Elegance and Character are Marked Features in NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain the eminence of elegance, and the tailoring is handled in so
smart a manner as to ensure absolute shape-permanence and grace in fit and drape.

We welcome a visit to this young men’s section where the fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK”
HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

CHARLOTTE

(Continued from Page 1.)

Our men had finished their labors and had returned to the hill.

The latest available report shows that about 9,500 pounds of cotton were picked by the eight crews. The delegation at
Gamble's led with 2,200 pounds.

“The Lone Horseman of the Apocalypse” in Library

Gives Vivid and Powerful Description of the French Spirit

For college men, business men, professional men, men of sports—baseball, football, golf, tennis, shooting, riding. For everybody, everywhere, the year
’round, Bevo is hale refreshment for wholesome thirst—an invigorating soft drink. Ideal for the athlete or the man in physical
or mental training—good to train on and gain on. Healthful and appetizing. It must be ice cold.

The reviewer, on looking over the book shelves of the library, could find no book as popular at the present
time as “The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse,” by the latest of modern Spanish novelists, Vincente Blasco Ibáñez. This powerful
classic (for so it is considered by many) portrays the splendid spirit of France in the war when the cataclysm
of the German hordes tried the manhood of France to the extreme. The book is also of interest from the
fact that a Spaniard wrote it when Spain was a neutral country with more or less pro-German tendencies. The story
itself is one of intense feeling and action. The scenes vary from the wild life of the cattle rancher of
the pampas to the life of the social idol—the pampered fop of the thé dansante in the great hub of
fashion—Paris. Into this elysium fell the bomb which set the world on fire and let loose the four horsemen on
the earth—plague, war, hunger, and death. The strict military system of Kultur, the disregard for human rights and life, and
the inexorable egotism of the German soldier are shown in the vivid picture of the Battle of the Marne. Out
of this depressed state comes the rebirth of France and the retreat of the army that would Prussianize the world.
The old man, selfish and mercenary, wakes up to realize the new world around him and lives to bathe his
tears on the war-trodden fields of France for the son who so bravely gave his life that the world might
be freed from the yoke of oppression.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

F. H. ANDREWS MUSIC STORE

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

JITNEY SERVICE BETWEEN MOORESVILLE, DAVIDSON AND CHARLOTTE

SCHEDULE

Leave Mooresville 1.40 P. M. 6.00 P. M.
Leave Davidson 2.00 P. M. 6.20 P. M.
Arrive Charlotte 3.30 P. M. 7.40 P. M.
Leave Charlotte 4.00 P. M. 11.00 P. M.
Arrive Mooresville 5.20 P. M. 12.20 A. M.
Mooresville 5.40 P. M. 12.40 A. M.

SUNDAY

Leave Mooresville 9.00 A. M.
Leave Charlotte 8.00 P. M.

CAMP GREENE TRANSIT COMPANY
200 Com. Bank Bldg Charlotte, N. C.
