Good-Bye Liberals

WE'VE GOT OUR BAND FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 8, 1919. No. 6

Shining Star Seen by Handbooks Have Arrived---Best Friday Night

The gloom that spread over the student body after the report of the Clemson game was soon turned into laughter when Douglas Fairbanks appeared on the screen in the “Modern Musketeers” Friday night at the “Y.” This was the best picture that has been shown this year and was enjoyed by all the students, as well as by the faculty and town people. Lewis is operating the machine with great success. Very little time was taken up with changing the reels, so that the whole thing moved along without a particle of trouble. The “Y” was very fortunate in having contracted with the Paramount-Artcraft Corporation for weekly pictures.

Good Prospects for Victory Against W. & L.

Opponents Handicapped by Lack of Experienced Men

Journeying to Lexington, Va., next Saturday, Davidson will meet Washington and Lee on the latter’s athletic field. The prospects for another Wildcat victory are good, although the ability of the Generals must not be underestimated. The White and Blue warriors will be out full of fight, to avenge last year’s defeat, when Davidson won from them on Sprunt Field, 20 to 0. The prospects at Washington and Lee are none too bright, according to accounts. The lack of veteran material is hampering the work of coaches to a great extent. Of those men who faced the Wildcats last year, only Abrogast, Bock, and Barrow are back. Abrogast, the stellar halfback who gained so much of Washington and Lee’s ground last year, is the dangerous one of this trio. From the 1917 team, those who are back again are Raines, Corbett, Patterson, and Henderson. Besides these men, the only other veteran players are Moore and Bethel, of the 1916 team. Bethel is a guard and is noted throughout Virginia as a star football and basketball player. The team that Washington and Lee faces this year is a different type than that of last year. Even with the advantage of playing on their own field, the Generals will not have all the odds their own way. With a victory from last year, and a better team this year, Davidson can go into the game with more confidence. Every man with the exception of two on the Wildcat squad knows the style of the Washington and Lee attack, whereas only a few of the Generals of this year played against Davidson last year, and their knowledge will not hurt much, as the team is being coached differently this year under Coach Crayton. Emerging from a defeat at the hands of Clemson by a bad break which gave the Tigers an easy chance to score, Davidson goes into the game Saturday with two victories and one defeat. She has scored 54 points against her opponents’ 7. With the same line-up, the team is due to be in better shape than in any previous game and with even breaks, another scalp should be added to the list. The line-up will probably be: Douglas and Miley, ends; McMaster and Hammett, tackles; LaFar and Romefelt, guards; Brady, center; Black and Johnson, halfbacks; Shepherd, fullback; Spann, quarterback.

S. M. Davis, '18, and D. V. Hudson, '17, are studying medicine in the Medical Department of the University of Maryland.

At “Y” Service

Chinese Student Gives Description of Student Movement in China

The largest attendance ever recorded at “Y” services was reached last Sunday evening, when three hundred and twenty students turned out for the service as a birthday present for Bob Miles, the “Y” secretary. And those who were present did not regret it, for the service was above the ordinary. Paul C. Meng, the Chinese government student, who has just come from China, talked on the vital conditions which affect China today. Meng held his audience from his first to his last word, while he told of situations in China of which the majority were entirely ignorant. After thanking the student body for the friendly attitude towards him since his arrival on the campus, Meng said that he wished to speak, not on China as a whole, but only on a few of the conditions existing there. Japan, Meng went on to say, is responsible for a great deal of the trouble existing in China today. Japan endeavored to force the twenty-one demands on China; she is endeavoring to undermine the Chinese people by encouraging opium smuggling, in direct violation of international law. A growing antagonism against Japan broke out into active demonstration when the students in Peking banded together into the student movement, on May 4, 1919. This movement has spread rapidly all over China through the zeal of its members. The government endeavored to suppress the street speaking of the students, and threw many into prison. Popular feeling, however, caused the government to change its policy, and the students were soon released. The student movement has aroused the nation to its need for defense and for defensive armaments, and is thus accomplishing its purpose. The Christian religion plays an important part in China’s future. Fifteen years ago, popular sentiment was violently anti-Christian. In general, at the present time, the attitude towards Christianity is very favorable. If the missionaries are given support, they can change and mold the China of the future. The missionaries need educational institutions, hospitals, and training schools. There is only one preacher for every 130,000 people and the need for more workers is self-evident. With the aid of the Christian Church, China can arouse itself from its sleep. The harvest is ripe, but the laborers are few. America alone can supply the need. Meng said, in conclusion, that during his short stay of two years here, he hoped to make many friends. And, further, he hoped that the United States and China would come to a better understanding and a deeper friendship for each other. A very enjoyable variation of the usual service was a quartet, composed of B. E. Shields, A. G. Oltman, A. L. Currie, and A. D. McArn, who gave two very beautiful selections. Bob Miles will commence next Sunday a series of talks dealing with campus life and problems.

MEN FROM STEELE CREEK CHURCH ORGANIZE.

The boys from Steele Creek Church held their first meeting last Saturday night and reorganized the Steele Creek Club. The members of the club are as follows: W. C. Neel, president; D. R. Freeman, vice-president; T. A. Freeman, secretary-treasurer; C. G. Brown, G. N. Neel, F. L. Brown, and Robt. P. Brown.

Davidson Goes Down in Defeat Before Fighting Demons of Clemson

Hard Fought Game Lost, 7 to 0—Clemson Outplayed in First Half, but Came Back Strong in Second

In one of the hardest fought and most interesting games ever staged on Riggs Field, Davidson lost to Clemson by a score of 7 to 0 last Friday afternoon. The wet field and unusually warm weather did not interfere with the sensational playing of both teams. Davidson completely outplayed the Tigers in the first half, making practically two first downs to Clemson's one. The Crimson seriously threatened the Clemson goal line on four occasions during this half. They several times carried the ball to the five-yard line but lacked the drive to carry it across at one time. With the ball in their possession on Clemson's two-yard line and first down, it seemed that the Wildcats had a sure touchdown but the whistle blew, ending the half and depriving Davidson of its best chance to score. The Tigers came back strong in the second half, having a little the better of the argument in this period. Captain Banks paved the way forA Clemson score with a brilliant fifty-yard sprint in the third quarter, placing the ball on the Wildcats’ four-yard line. Davidson held here but had hard luck when Johnston's punt from behind the line struck the goal post and Clemson recovered on Davidson's eight-yard line. Three line bucks failed and Coach Donahue sent in Roper at quarter, who hurled a pass over the goal line to Potts. This score was ruled out, however, because Roper called signals on the first play after entering the game. The ball was given to Davidson on their twenty-yard line and Johnston punted to Clemson's forty-five-yard line. Here Clemson started their drive down the field which resulted in a touchdown. After taking two first downs, Captain Banks, who had replaced Allison at half, carried the ball to the two-foot line and Armstrong bucked over the Wildcats’ right side for the only touchdown. Harris kicked goal and the score stood: Clemson 7; D. C. 0. This ended the third quarter. Honors were almost evenly divided in the fourth quarter. The ball see-sawed back and forth in the middle of the field with neither team able to gain much ground. The game ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on Clemson's forty-five-yard line. Captain Banks was the bright star of the game for Clemson. This clever little player made several sensational end runs from punt formation. His best was a fifty-yard sprint which ultimately resulted in Clemson's score. His line bucking was also good and he played an excellent defensive game. Harris also played well in the backfield, while Lightsey and Gettys did good work in the line. In the backfield for Davidson, Black played a splendid game. His line bucking was phenomenal and he never failed to gain when called upon to carry the ball. Captain Spann played his usual good game at quarter, Brady and Hammett were the chief stars in the line, repeatedly throwing Clemson backs for no gain or a loss. Hammett is proving a tower of strength and one of the best tackles in the whole South. The whole D. C. team showed surprising strength, though handicapped by a wet field and heavier opponents, and deserve great credit for the fight which they put up. Davidson's attack consisted mostly of line bucks. Although the muddy field and wet ball made the aerial style of play difficult, the Wildcats also succeeded in completing no less than eight forward passes. Clemson relied almost entirely on straight football. Score: Clemson 7; Davidson 0.

Line-up:
Clemson: Davidson:
Thackston..... L. E. ..... Miley
Potts... ..... L. T. ..... Tiew
Hammett ..... L. G. ..... Romefelt
Gettys......... C. ....... Brady
Lightsey ...... R. G. ..... La Far
Owens......... R. T. ..... McMaster
Douglas....... R. E. ..... Black
Spann......... Q. B. ..... Johnston
Armstrong .... R. H. B. ... Johnston
Allison........ L. H. B. ... Shepherd

Substitutions: Davidson—Martin for Shepherd, Shaw for La Far. Clemson—Roper for Banks, Banks for Allison. (Other Clemson substitutions unavailable).

Score by quarters:
Clemson: 7
Davidson: 0

Touchdown, Armstrong; goal from touchdown, Harris. Referee, Stoney (Sewanee); umpire, Holtzendorf (Georgia).

Two Young Ladies to Open Lyceum Course Here
Rich-Werno Entertainers Selected for Next Wednesday Night

The first number of the Lyceum Course is scheduled for October 15, the Rich-Werno Company being the performers. These two young ladies have traveled over the entire country for several years in Lyceum work. They are especially good in dialogues, sketches, and costume work. This entertainment will be held in Shearer Hall and all of the students and town people are expected to be there. This Lyceum Course this year is stronger and cheaper than that of other colleges in order to establish a permanent course at Davidson. Season tickets must be bought before the first performance. The college and town are being canvassed now but if you happen to be overlooked, see Chalmers, Calhoun, or Oltman, who are acting as managers.

HELP US AND WE'LL HELP YOU.

Fellows, the magazine will go to the press on October 10 and will be ready to mail out October 20. One month thereafter another one will come out. Quite a number handed in material for this issue, but not nearly as many as we expected from so large a student body. Remember the GOLD MEDAL that is to be given to the man who does the best work for the magazine, and remember that every man in the student body stands an equal chance for this medal. How about you getting right to work now and getting something ready for the next issue? You can write an essay, a short story, a poem, or some literary humorous wit, or draw some cartoons, or you can try. We're counting on you.

Professor W. W. Wood is in West Virginia for a few days. When Mrs. Wood joins him again in Davidson, they will occupy the Alexander house on Concord Road, which is now being renovated.

Handbook that is really handy.

The Y. M. C. A. Handbooks, about which so much has been said in the last few days, have arrived. Much thanks and appreciation is due to C. M. McCaskill, Editor, and C. N. Morrison, Manager, for their untiring efforts to give Davidson students a handbook that is really handy. It contains a complete directory of the students and much other information that will often come in very conveniently.

Phi Society Members Make Merry at Feed
Prof. Currie Speaks—Many New Men Taken In

Last Saturday night the Gymnasium was the scene of great epicurean and gustatory festivities. The occasion was a feed given by the Philanthropic Literary Society to all students who hail from North Carolina. The purpose of the feed was to secure a general social get-together of the members of the society and those who contemplate becoming members. The affair was a decided success and in spite of the fact that July 1 has come and gone, good spirits were there in abundance. The meeting was opened with an address by Professor Currie. Professor Currie said that his most pleasant recollections of college days were those that were associated with his work in the literary society. This work in the literary society was also the most beneficial. Latin, Greek, and Chemistry are good in their way and will be of benefit to a professor of language or a chemist but the ability to speak well is essential to all occupations and professions. A student who expects to study law or be a minister, in Professor Currie’s opinion, commits a crime against himself and against society at large, if he fails to take advantage of the literary societies. Professor Currie, while recommending both societies, said that no one makes a mistake by joining the Phi. Professor Currie showed that the method of learning to speak in the societies was the best possible method. When one learns by participation and imitation as one does in the literary societies what he learns stays with him. The day of the orator has not passed and it is Professor Currie's belief that it is not likely to do so soon. The day of the orator is rather dawning anew and bringing with it greater possibilities. The newspapers, which some say have taken the place of the orator, are not studied seriously and with the intention of learning the truth. It takes the orator to move the masses today the (Continued on Page 10)

CALENDAR.
Wednesday—“Davidsonians” arrive.
Thursday Night, 7:30—Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting.
Friday Night, 8:00—Movies—Marguerite Clark in “The Wildflower.”
Saturday—Davidson vs. W. & L. at Lexington, Va.
Saturday Night—Literary Societies.
Sunday Morning, 10:00—Bible Classes—Chapter III.
Sunday Night, 7:00—“Y” Services—Mr. Miles Speaks.
Monday Night, 7:00—Junior Literary Societies.

MANY HAPPY RETURNS OF THE DAY, MR. MILES