Vol. VI.

With Our Alumni Here and There
Interesting Letters From Davidson Men In Service.

CLASS STANDING.
The final standing of the class basketball series is as follows:

| WON | LOST | PCT. |
|------|------|------|
| Sophs | 6 | 3 | .750 |
| Seniors | 2 | 2 | .500 |
| Juniors | 1 | 2 | .333 |
| Fresh | 1 | 2 | .333 |

Lt. Morrison Wins D. S. C. Twice.
Lieut. Julian K. Morrison, ex-'16, of Statesville, N. C., has been twice awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for bravery in action overseas. His name and service appear in General Order No. 24, General Headquarters Tank Corps, American Expeditionary Forces, December 17, 1918, as follows:

“The commander-in-chief of the American Expeditionary Forces, in the name of the President, has awarded the Distinguished Service Cross to Lieut. Julian K. Morrison, Tank Corps, No. 1903, for extraordinary heroism in action in the Bois Quart de Reserve, France, 12 September, 1918. Preceding his tank on foot, Lieutenant Morrison captured a machine gun nest. Though he was twice wounded, this officer continued in action for two days thereafter.”

The order also reads: “For extraordinary heroism in action near Very, France, 28 September, 1918, Lieutenant Morrison is awarded a Bar to be worn with the Distinguished Service Cross. During the attack on Charpentry, and Bois de Montrebeau, Lieutenant Morrison led a platoon of five tanks, directing his tank on foot 500 yards in advance of the infantry under intense fire. Three of his tanks were put out of action by artillery fire, but he continued in action with the remaining two until dark, when he directed the work of rescuing the crews.”

Lieutenant Morrison was the only man in the Tank Corps to be awarded the bar, or bronze oak leaf as it is sometimes called. Instead of being awarded a second Service Cross, a bar is added to the cross previously given. Lieutenant Morrison is the second Davidson alumnus to win such a distinguished honor. Captain McCoy, ex-'17, known on the Davidson football field as “Butch,” won the Croix de Guerre some time ago. It is probable that other Davidson men have won high distinction of whom The Davidsonian has heard nothing. The editor-in-chief and staff men will receive gladly news of such instances, if there be such.

Rev. C. B. Craig, '11, has recently been installed as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Laurinburg, N. C.

Dr. David Bigger, ex-'13, of Rock Hill, S. C., was married some time ago to Miss Hazel Mott, of Watsonville, Cal.

(Continued on page 5)

‘Varsity basketball practice opened up the first of this week. Prospects for a winning team are excellent. Under the coaching and training of Coach Fetzer and “Bob” Miles, great things are expected of the Red and Black quint this year. Around McAskill, last year's star guard, as a nucleus, the Davidson five will be built. “Prep” Hall, a D.C. man, is due back in the near future, but it is a question as to what position he will play. It will be an interesting fight for the remaining positions. Davenport, a last year's sub, is in mid-season form and will bid strong for one of the forward positions. Dave Hall and Alexander seem to be the choice of the remaining forward candidates, but the dope may be upset by Harrington, Denny or the Or-

(Continued on page 6)

SCHEDULE FOR RE-EXAMS.
Monday, February 3, 4-6 p.m.
- Bible I.
- Bible II.
- Psychology.

Tuesday, February 4, 4-6 p.m.
- Physics II.

Wednesday, February 5, 4-6 p.m.
- English I.
- English II.

Thursday, February 6, 4-6 p.m.
- French I.
- German II.

Friday, February 7, 4-6 p.m.
- Chemistry.

Monday, February 10, 4-6 p.m.
- Math I.
- Math II.

Sophomores Champs.
Defeat Fast Seniors
Title Holders For Two Years Lose to Second Year Men.
The Sophs win theSeries. In one of the closest contested series ever held on the hill, the second-year men won the class basketball championship for 1919. “Who's going to win the championship?” was the question that everyone was asking last week, and there were speculations from the Fresh team on up. But no one really knew until Ormand, of the Sophs, shot a field goal in the extra session of the game Saturday night.

Junior-Soph Game. On Tuesday night, the third game of the series was played between the Juniors and Sophs. This hard-fought game was featured by the close guarding of both teams. It was hard-fought throughout, and it was doubtful who would be the winners until the timekeeper blew his whistle. At the end of the first half, the Sophs were leading, but the Juniors came into their own in the second period, forging ahead in the last few minutes. The leading feature of the game was McAlister’s guarding. Brice and Schenck, by their splendid guarding, held the Junior's score down to ten points. Final score, 10-7, in favor of the Juniors.

Juniors: 
Askew 
Craig, R. R. (2) 
Caldwell 
Chalmers (c) (8) 
McAllister 

Sophs: 
Harrington (c) (2) 
Ormand, A. P. (2) 
Finley 
Brice 
Schenck (2) 

Summary: Foul goals: Harrington, 1; time of halves, 20, 15 minutes; timekeeper, Fetzer; referees, Davenport and R. D. Hall.

Senior-Fresh Game. In the game Wednesday night the (Continued on page 4)

No. 13 Captain J. W. Moore Wanted For R.O.T.C. Drilling May Start Soon For Militarists. The biggest “crip” on the hill at present may soon become our hardest ticket. While the plans for the R.O.T.C. are progressing slowly, they are progressing surely. Capt. John W. Moore, an old Davidson man, who since his graduation has been teaching at Winston-Salem, has been asked by Dr. Martin to come and be our Commanding Officer. He has gladly consented and has sent in his application to Washington to be transferred here. The last word from Congressman Webb is that they are working hard to have him assigned to Davidson. The government shows that it is in earnest, for it has appointed Mr. Jackson as the officer to attend to the government service at Davidson College.

WAR CLIPPINGS ARE CLASSIFIED. Miss Shaw has arranged and fixed up in the library a file of pamphlets and newspaper clippings on subjects relative to the war. These have been classified and put under different headings which make it very easy to get almost any information of this particular kind desired. The file includes, among many others, a number of clippings on the diplomatic negotiations preceding the war, which are as yet unclassified, the different phases of the war itself, and President Wilson's trip to Europe. This file is valuable because most of the information would otherwise have been destroyed in a short time and then it would have been necessary to do a great deal of reading before getting at the facts. Thanks to Miss Shaw's efforts, such work is now simplified and shortened.

The January shipment of books for the library has not arrived yet. They were shipped the first of the month but owing to the congested traffic they have not been delivered.

DAVIDSON HEALTH REPORT. Vital statistics for the village of Davidson, 1918: Births, 28; deaths, 21; cases of influenza in college (about) 200; cases of pneumonia in college, 18; cases of influenza in the village, 179; cases of pneumonia in the village, 30; acute infectious diseases quarantined and placarded, 98. Reported for the Civic Club by Dr. J. K. Justice, Health Officer.

The friends of Miss Jean Dupuy will be interested to know that she and her mother are visiting in New Orleans.

WANTED. All men who can write, draw, letter, paint, or who think they can do anything for the 1919 QUIPS AND CRANKS. See “Amo” Love, No. 4, Ga., at once.