THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 8, 1919

LITERARY NEWS

PHI. SOCIETY PROGRAM, OCTOBER 11.

Debate:
Affirmative: Poole, H. R., Parks, J. S., Robinson, C. W., Spence, Sample, G. D.
Negative: Dunlap

Extemporaneous Debate: Howie, S. E., Long, C. G.
Declamation: Lacy, I. A.
Oration: Worth, C. W.

PHI. JUNIOR SOCIETY.

Affirmative: Brown, C. K., Nichols, L. B., Brown, W. P., Hall, P. J.
Negative: Long, F. V., Thames, F. C.
Declamations: McLeod, R. L., Roberts, W. W., Bray, L. J.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY PROGRAM, OCT. 11.

Debate:
Affirmative: Wilkinson, Winter, Drake, Gunn.
Negative: Hyland, Lowry, McLaughlin, McGukin.
Orations: J. C. McCaskill, McGirt.

EUMENEAN FRESHMAN SOCIETY, OCT. 13, 1919.

Debate:
Affirmative: Crawford, Cason, Brumley, Alexander.
Negative: H. A. Bailey, Warren, Wilkes, Wiley.
Declamations: Lewis, Mauze.

Much Better Work Shown in Eu Society
Students Manifest Real Interest—Best Program of the Year

The Eumenean Society held its usual meeting Saturday night. The subject of the debate was: Resolved, “That the United States
Should Actively Intervene in Mexico.” The affirmative side of this question was upheld by J. C. Bailey, J. P. Price,
and R. Bitzer. Bailey, in a well-prepared speech, vividly pictured the conditions in Mexico, and said these conditions justified intervention.
Price advanced the argument that ours would be an altruistic intervention and so would succeed. Bitzer said that by intervention
we can do good, and should therefore intervene.

A. D. King, first speaker for the negative, claimed that intervention would hurt the United States and would not properly
meet the situation. P. B. Carwile contended that conditions in Mexico are not so bad as prejudiced rumor would indicate,
and are constantly improving. B. H. Boyd closed the debate with the contention that the situation will best be met
by an educational intervention which will not antagonize the people. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative.

W. B. Sullivan, reviewer, eulogized the debate as a whole and criticized Boyd for a lack of co-ordination, using for
this purpose a joke rock-ribbed and ancient as the granite hills of his native State, Georgia. J. M. Richards ably
delivered as a declamation Dr. Girardeau’s oration on the occasion of the reinterment of the South Carolina soldiers who fell
at Gettysburg. McGirt, also from Georgia, pulled on the reviewer a joke also “rock-ribbed, etc.”

The executive committee reported that, by agreement with the Philanthropic Society, the Junior-Senior Inter-Society Debate would be held during the
fall term this year instead of in the spring, as has formerly been customary.

In spite of rather bad order, the strength and conviction to every loyal

“Desert of Wheat” Teaches True Americanism
Zane Grey Gives Vivid Description of the Great West

The “Desert of Wheat,” by Zane Grey, is a book which no reviewer could well omit in the discussion of
popular fiction. No writer of today can tell the stories of the great West with as perfect style and complete
knowledge of the subject as Zane Grey. How many of us have stayed up at night to read such rattling
good stories as the “Riders of the Purple Sage” and the “Border Legion” and have gone to bed only to
dream of the “Lone Star Ranger?” Zane Grey gives us the true story of our West in a gripping and
open-hearted manner so that one could well believe the events taking place before his eyes.

At the beginning of the world’s war, the great Northwestern wheat sections were owned by men who in many ways
were of pro-German sympathy. Then German money was used by the I. W. W. to destroy the crops, for at
that time wheat meant the success of our armies in the field. The horrible deeds of destruction of the I.
W. W., instead of gaining pro-German disciples, caused the men of the Northwest to realize their true government. There is
a charming love story running through the book. The characters are strong-minded Westerners who impress the reader by their spirit
in the war. Zane Grey teaches the true lesson of Americanism. Such a book should add strength and conviction to
every loyal American.

LIBRARY RECEIVES NEW HISTORY OF N. CAROLINA

Among the recent additions to the books of the library are ten volumes of the “Biographical History of North Carolina.”
The editors are Samuel A. Ashe, Stephen B. Weeks, and Charles L. Van Noppen. The publisher is Charles L. Van
Noppen, of Greensboro, N. C. The books are beautifully bound and all of the engravings are steel-cut. The purpose of
these volumes is to present to posterity some accounts of those useful citizens who have been connected with the events
and historical episodes exerting an influence on the life of the people and on the development of the institutions and
industries of the State of North Carolina.

DAVIDSON MEN TRYING FOR RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS.

The Cecil Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University is of great interest to many people at this time of the year.
There will be given scholarships to one man from North Carolina, one from South Carolina, one from Virginia, one from
Mississippi, two from Florida, and two from Georgia. Two men are permitted to apply from Davidson College. These men who
are given the scholarships enter Oxford, some in January and some in October of 1920. The old form of standing
examinations has been done away with and a committee composed of former Oxford men has been appointed to decide the
scholarships. The four following points are to determine who shall go: 1. Character; 2. Scholarship; 3. Interest in outdoor sports;
4. Ability for leadership.

The men who have been recommended by the faculty as eligible for this scholarship are as follows: S. H. Askew
and W. H. Harrell, Georgia; J. R. McKeldin, Tennessee; T. R. Boulware, Florida; L. B. Schenck, North Carolina; L. P.
Good, South Carolina; A. P. Ormand, Mississippi; and J. E. Cassell, Virginia. The time for application closed on October 5,
1919.

“When the winds are out and the storms are raging, there is plenty of fear, but not a bit of
danger. We may be much tossed, but we are quite safe, for we have an anchor of the soul both
sure and steadfast, which will not”start. —Spurgeon.

WHAT man doesn’t like his pipe? There’s nothing whets your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. Because
you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction. Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is
a WDC. Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar is brought out by our own special
seasoning process. Then, too, WDC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree
with us that our craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that are without peers in all the world. Ask
any good dealer. Be sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against cracking or burning through.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

BLUE PENCIL CLUB FORMULATES YEAR'S PLANS

The Blue Pencil Club, at its regular meeting last week, discussed the plans for their literary work this year. The
following plan was agreed upon: Each member was given the name of a book by some present-day writer to read
and study. This must be completed before the Christmas holidays. The discussions for the program of every second meeting will
be held by one of the members, in which he will take up and discuss the book that was assigned
to him. The program of the alternate meeting will consist of a general discussion of current magazines and periodicals. Each
member is very enthusiastic over the work and it is assured that it will be both interesting and instructive. The
initiation of new members will take place at the next regular meeting.

O, YOU WONDERFUL WALLACE, YOU’RE THE MAN FOR US.

Again September 26th movies came up to the desired standard in the presentation by Wallace Reid of “Rimrock Jones,” which
is one of his most famous pictures. It was one of the best pictures that have been shown to date
in the “Y.” There was a little difficulty in getting the show started, but when it did start it couldn't
be beat for smoothness, and rapidity in changing the different parts. Between the third and fourth parts “Bob” Miles, our
secretary and friend, came racing in almost out of breath to announce that the score as learned from the Charlotte
Observer was 21-0 in our favor. After the applause had finally quieted slightly a motion was made to the effect
that a parade be formed immediately after adjournment. So that when we had seen Rimrock and his co-partner finish their
midnight interview, by common consent the show became a parade. Let’s all turn out next Friday and celebrate Davidson’s third
victory, and while the pep is up, give fifteen for the operators.

Wake Forest Victory Celebrated by Shirt-Tail Parade

Dr. Sentelle expressed his appreciation of the work of Coach Crayton. Dr. Jim Douglass professed surprise at the idea of
a parade for such an ordinary occurrence as beating Wake Forest. Dr. Arbuckle eulogized our coach and ended with a
chemical (T. N. T.) joke. Mr. Jackson declared that Wake Forest was only a “sandwich” for Davidson. The crowd gave
“fifteen” for Jack Black. The half that knows no equal, and the peppiest parade of many years passed into history
with song and jesting. The nymph got here if the annuals didn't. And then came the Nymph and brought with
her much mirth, so that the students deported themselves in the most amazing fashion. Briefly, friend, there was a “shirt-tail.”
Wake Forest, having been aroused and hewn down on her own camping grounds in spite of her secret practice, etc.,
it was decided by a 428 (17 men went on the trip) to 0 vote to take a night off
and celebrate. The upper-classmen formed and the Fresh were formed in front of Rumple and the merry mob moved on.
Dr. Martin was visited first. He spoke for every Davidson man when he said he wanted “to make Bill Fetzer
sick of his job.” The procession, led and well led by N. C. Red Smith, shifted itself to Dr. McConnell’s,
where two speeches were “had.” Dr. Lingle, the first orator, said that the Wake Forest team must have been looking
on at the game. Dr. McConnell declared that the faculty had to make too many speeches here during the football
season. Colonel McConnell declared that beating Wake Forest was a poor subject for speech-making, but nevertheless he certainly made a
“hit.” Professor Reid asked the man with the big feet to please stand off the grass and met with 425
responses. Professor Currie, after requesting someone to “Hold that bull yearling with the bell” (Liston), got off a snapping good
speech. Dr. Harding sympathized with the boys in having to listen to so many speeches on one night. Dr. Grey
was not at home. The same thing occurred in the case of Colonel Mueller, Dr. Richards, Dr. John Douglass, Professor
Wood and Professor Shewmake. Dr. Hunt made his debut to a Davidson shirt-tail and incidentally one of the best talks
of the evening. Not every student takes Bug but every one was glad to find such an enthusiast on the
faculty.

WAGES TO WIVES

Whether we agree or not on the subject of wages for wives, yet every single one of us will laugh
at the simple, humorous philosophy of “Mirandy,” written by Dorothy Dix in the Good Housekeeping.

“Sis Mirandy, ma’am,” says Sis Alethia to me the other day, “how do you hold with them what is promulgating
this here newfangled doctrine that wives had ought to be paid wages by their husbands?”

“What’s the matter with the old-fashioned plan of a wife taking all of her husband’s pay envelope instead of just
getting a rake-off?" I asks her. “That’s the way our mothers done and the way we does, and so far
as I can see, it works out all right. Anyway, I ain’t noticed that none of the married men that
I know is setting up automobiles or wearing diamonds on the money their wives leave them to spend on themselves.”

“But the Good Book says that the laborer is worthy of his hire,” says Sis Alethia, “and it sure does
seem that if anybody earns their board and keep, and a few plunks besides, it’s the wife and mother who
works about eighteen hours a day and then sleeps with one eye open watching to see that the children don’t
get uncovered, and with her ear hung out for the alarm clock so that she can get up and get
breakfast most ready before she wakes up her husband.”
