THE DAVIDSONIAN, October 22, 1919

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

Dr. M. E. Sentelle Holds High Place in Esteem of Davidson Men

W. M. Curry, '19, and A. R. Craig, '17, are members of the Junior class at Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.

W. H. R. Campbell, '10, is practicing law in Asheville, N. C.

R. B. Peters, Jr., '19, is engaged in business at his home, Tarboro, N.C.

Harry Caldwell, '12, is now in Charlotte and frequently spends the weekend in Davidson.

After spending two years overseas in the air service, N. L. Armistead, '18, has returned and settled down in the automobile business in Corinth, Miss. He is meeting with success in this work.

After spending about six months in the army, Andrew Brown, '17, has settled down in business with his father in Ripley, Miss.

Lloyd Boggs, ex-'18, spent the weekend on the Hill. He is now a Senior at the South Carolina Agricultural College, in Clemson, S. C.

Dr. Sentelle has performed a service to Davidson that is quite unique. He makes the course in Bible at once interesting and difficult. And every year, students go out from Davidson better prepared to grapple with the moral problems of life because they have taken the courses in Philosophy under him. It is due to the efforts of Dr. Sentelle that the absence system works. And though almost any student would be glad if he personally could escape the results of this work, all realize that this system and its rigid enforcement play a large part in the discipline that makes Davidson what it is. At every point at which he touches the life of the college, Dr. Sentelle is a force for the good of the whole structure. His careful, accurate fairness in marking his students has made an impression upon all who have taken courses under him; his willingness to help has made for him an enduring place in the hearts of all who have known him.

YE CAMP GOSSIP.

The other night I came home
And it was late
And the place
Was very dark
With lots of trees
And shadows too.
I ran against
Something white
And then it moved
And I saw
That it was
A large white dog.
Very soon
You will be
Rambling along
And run against
A large white sheet
With lots of names
And I hope
That your name
Will be absent
From that fateful
Word above for
All those names
Spelled “Deficient”
So now is when
To start aright
And hit the ball
For a thousand.
I thank you.

Captain R. H. Crawford, '10, has become a member of the staff of the Norris Sanitarium, at Rutherfordton, N. C.

L. M. Thomas, '18, is taking the Theological course at Emory University, in Atlanta.

Capt. J. D. Robinson, '08, has returned from Germany, and resumed the practice of medicine in Wallace, N.C.

B. F. Quigg, '09, is principal of Rome High School, Rome, Ga.

The Highland Park Presbyterian Church, of Fayetteville, of which Rev. John S. McMurray, '09, is pastor, has erected a new church building. The dedication service was held on October 5, the dedication sermon being preached by Rev. Lewis T. Wilds, '06, and the prayer of dedication being offered by Rev. W. E. Hill, '99.

On October 15 Miss Alice Peyton Vaughan was married to Mr. William Lamar Menzies.14. Mr. and Mrs. Menzies will be at home in Duquesne, Pa., after November 1.

John L. Payne, ’16, who is with the Goodyear Tire Company in Raleigh, spent the weekend on the Hill.

W. H. Manning, ex-'13, of Fiko, S.C., with his wife and child, has been visiting his mother, Mrs. M. E. Manning, on Academy Street.

First Lieut. W. A. Dumas, '15, is in Siberia with the Thirty-first Infantry. In a recent issue of “Here and There With the 31st,” the paper issued by that regiment, appeared an account of a pursuit of a band of Bolshevists in which Lieutenant Dumas figured prominently. In the same paper appears an article entitled “Come to Neechevo”—a description of a model company camp.

A. B. Taylor, ’11, and his wife, were visitors on the Hill last week. Mr. Taylor is now at the head of the Chero-Cola Bottling Company in Charlotte.

Locke White, '13, is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Blacksburg, Va. He is taking an active interest in the work among the V. P. I. students.

WDC Pipe is the biggest value that the World's Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in sweet and mellow every time. Ask any good dealer. We. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.

FOR GOLFERS. A genial golfer on being admitted to heaven greeted St. Peter with the question: “I suppose you have the best of links here and that I will now be able to play to my heart's content?” Said Mr. Peter: “I'm awfully sorry, sir, but we have none. Our guests do not indulge in such idle pastime. However, you probably can find suitable links down below where most of the sports go.” Down went the genial golfer to Old Nick, who showed him a most wonderful course and a noble clubhouse. Satan even went so far as to provide the lacking outfit of clubs. It was not many minutes before our good friend, the golfer, felt he could drive a ball two hundred and fifty yards or more with the perfect drive that had been handed him. So he asked the caddy for balls. To his surprise, the latter shook his head. Turning to Old Nick, the newcomer ejaculated: “What! no balls?” Sadly the “Old Boy” replied, “No; that’s the hell of it!”—The Sphinx Talks.

THINK WHAT HE MISSED! “When I told her I killed a German with one hand, she grabbed it and kissed it all over.” “You're an idiot,” said his pal. “Why didn’t you tell her you bit the Hun to death?”

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y. The name ‘Argonne’ is used by courtesy of the Argonne Shirt Co., Philadelphia.

FLOWERS Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N.C. Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts. Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you. White Drug Company. The Rexall Store. Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists.

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats. You will find our stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear—the Best of Quality. Stetson Hats, Edwin Clapp Shoes, Manhattan Shirts. We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly. MELLON’S, 8, 10 WEST TRADE ST.

ENGRAVED Business and Social Stationery, Invitations, Announcements, Monograms. Holidays are nearing. Place your orders for Calling Cards and Social Stationery now so you will be sure of it then. W. A. Foil, Jr., of Davidson College is our representative. Queen City Printing Company, 14 and 16 East Fourth St., Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA. Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories.

PEPSI-COLA Stimulating, Exhilarating.

L. B. LONG. HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES. EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT. CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY. Farm Produce Bought and Sold.