Goodbye ’19 Che Hello ’20 avidsonian FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 28, 1919. Baccalaureate Sermon Delivered Before Large Throng by West Virginia Divine Dr. J. Layton Mauze, of Huntington, W. Va., Speaks On “Stability” Before Class of 1919 at Davidson—Church Filled to Hear Splendid Sermon—Some Thoughts Advanced by Dr. Mauze.

The Baccalaureate Sermon of the class of 1919 was preached by Rev. J. Layton Mauze, D.D., of Huntington, West Virginia. Dr. Mauze chose Genesis 49:4 as his text: “Unstable as water thou shalt not excel.” “The desire to excel in some one or many different things,” he said, “is common to all human beings. It is the main spring of human progress.” The purpose of the men who established Davidson College was to help young men prepare themselves to excel. Dr. Mauze said that the words of his text might better be translated, “Boiling over, as water thou shalt not be pre-eminent.” These words were first used of Reuben when the dying Jacob was blessing his twelve sons, but they might be applied equally as well to many men throughout the history of the world. Napoleon Bonaparte, probably the greatest military genius that this world has ever seen, is a noteworthy example of instability. He won brilliant victories over his enemies for fifteen years but because he lacked stability he was unable to stand three years of defeat, and thereby lost his empire. On the other hand, Frederick the Great, though he was a less brilliant leader, commanded smaller armies and was more often defeated, yet won the victory over a more powerful coalition than that which opposed Napoleon. The Roman idea, that a good man was one who held to a fixed course, was the dynamic force which enabled them to subdue the world. The man who has a fixed purpose will rise above the masses; the man who has not can be no higher than the animals.

Dr. Mauze then pointed out four things in which a man should be steadfast. First, he should be steadfast in study; a man’s studying should not end with the receiving of his diploma but should be continued throughout his life. Two temptations will come to him in reference to the books which he reads. One of these is to confine his reading to one subject and so to narrow instead of broaden his outlook. The other is to let his profession interfere with all study. He cautioned the graduating class to be on their guard against these temptations. Again, in friendship and love the same stability is a necessity. No true friendship can ever come about unless there is a permanent affection between the persons involved. Dr. Mauze emphasized the fact that love had been made too much of a joke. A man should choose a wife because of her good qualities and sterling worth; not because she had fine clothes. No marriage can be a happy one which is not founded on lasting love. Success in a man’s life work must be attained by pegging away; it does not necessarily come as a result of brilliance. Nothing is truer than the old proverb, “A rolling stone gathers no moss.” If the man who goes into a profession does not have a well thought out plan of action with the firm purpose of abiding by it, he will never be a success. Finally, stability of character is the most important attribute of a man. Our characters are the only part of us which we will carry unchanged into the next world. Success, even in this world, depends in large part on our moral standards. Nine out of every ten failures is caused by fickleness of character. Today when the flower of Europe’s manhood is dead, shall not the youth of America prepare itself for the service of humanity?

Dr. Mauze closed with an appeal to the Senior Class to take the moral standards of Christ as their own now that they were going out to face the temptations of the world. Without them and Him a man cannot be a success in the deepest meaning of the word.

Dr. Lilly Explains “God’s Method of Glorifying Life” Davidson Hears Noted Winston Divine—Y. M. C. A. Sermon Heard By Large Crowd at Presbyterian Church at Davidson.

The Y. M. C. A. sermon of Sunday afternoon was delivered by Dr. D. Clay Lilly, of Winston-Salem. His text was chosen from the Transfiguration, and his subject was “God's Method of Glorifying Life.” Dr. Lilly's first lesson from this great passage of Scripture was the reality of spiritual existence. “This whole passage is the revelation of a scene of deep spiritual reality, with Christ, so much so that all three Synoptic Gospel Writers have recorded it. The Transfiguration scene is a culmination of his discourse to his disciples a week before about his death. The theme had remained uppermost in his mind during the week, and now, he had gone up on the mountain to ‘talk it over’ with God. So, it was a time of great spiritual crisis with Christ. To us, too,” Dr. Lilly explained, “come the needs often for a little talking it over with God—a need for the reality of spiritual existence. Such a solution of problems, spiritual and mental and physical, always meets the Father’s approval; and that it meets God in an increased call to service. It not only gave the Son the desired communion, the wanted answer that he sought, He also sent His testimony of Divine approval of His Son and his actions. And God in like manner glorifies in approval life today. He glorifies all who look toward Him in times of spiritual crisis. But,” Dr. Lilly said, “when God glorifies a man and expands his vision and increases his great powers of mind and soul, He also sends an enlarged amount of work, more problems, and greater tasks to be accomplished. In fact,” he declared, “these increasing tasks are evidence to us that God is sending His approval. Then pray for increased duties, for increased service, for increased usefulness in life, and in fulfilling these ‘talk them over’ with God.”

Dr. Lilly very forcefully illustrated this by referring to the life of our President, Woodrow Wilson. In the college days of this great man there was little to worry him but as he climbed the ladder of success from college student to professor, college president, governor, President of our country and finally to the leader of world politics, he took more responsibilities on his shoulders. So as time moves on,” Dr. Lilly said, “those to whom he was speaking, would have to shoulder new responsibilities.” The speaker ended his address by appealing to the young men and their friends to earnestly seek after those things which were best in life and in this way learn of “God's method of glorifying life.”

Belief in success makes success. It is always interesting to prophesy a little and when things look as favorable as they do at present thisis an easy job. In football, Coach Fetzer is planning for the biggest season we have ever had. Most of last year’s team will be on hand, and other heroes of past years will be back from the army and on the job. The schedule is as hard as that of any college or university in the South, including Washington and Lee, South Carolina, V. M. I., Georgia Tech, A. & E. of N. C., University of North Carolina, Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Furman, Guilford, and Wake Forest. There is no doubt that a man who makes next year’s team will see and have a part in the best college games in this section of the country. Four basketball men are sure to be here with prospects of one or two more, thus insuring a successful season in this line. In baseball, nine lettermen will probably furnish the basis for the new squad. Most of these men have one or two stars by their letter, and if they can’t beat everything in this part of the country, we want to know the reason why. Intercollegiate athletics are getting a new start all over the country. Davidson is right with them in this progress and is looking forward to the biggest year in athletics as well as everything else, in the history of the college.

The outlook for intercollegiate athletics in the fall of 1918 was exceedingly dismal. Rules, regulations, and rumors caused the college sport writers and speculators to look around for another job. Reports to the effect that athletics would be entirely abolished by the government were met by all manner of protests from the thousands of college students and the endless line of fans. However, it was soon seen that Uncle Sam intended no such calamity.

MISS ELIZABETH GREY
Sponsor for The Davidsonian.

Athletic Prospects For 1919-1920 Very Favorable
Football, Basketball, and Baseball Will All Have Excellent Schedules Next Year—In Spite of Many Drawbacks, the Wildcats Made a Favorable Showing This Season.

With the exception of one or two, everything went off smoothly.

Football
Although football was slightly hindered by lack of time for practice and the limits put on trips, the season at Davidson was exceptionally satisfactory. At the first practice, only four of the past year’s huskies answered to the roll call. One of these was soon sent to camp, and the three remaining formed the nucleus for the new team. Around Spann, in the backfield, and Crouch and McMaster, on the line, Coach Fetzer began to build his machine. Of the previous year's scrubs, Fischel, Brady, Robson, Massey, McAlister, and White showed up well and made a place on the squad. Douglass and Johnston of the new men made their letter and did excellent work. McFadden, Sutton, C. B. Robson, the Miley brothers, Cornelson, Le Far, and others also did splendid work in helping to develop a winning team. The “flu” epidemic caused a serious setback in the work of the team. Some of the men never fully recovered from the effects and were laboring under a handicap throughout the entire season. Despite these few difficulties, we were able to cop the state championship by taking the measure of our ancient rivals, North Carolina. It was the first time we had done this for several years, but we've got the habit now and expect to repeat next season. Washington and Lee was also handed a healthy drubbing. The only defeat suffered was at Clemson, where the game was played on a young pond, the swimming meet ending with one touchdown to their credit. The record of the season is as follows:

(Continued on Page 7)

400 Students Next Year
No. 28

Class of Nineteen Is Sent Forth Into the World As Alumni
Splendid Address is Heard—Dr. J. H. McCracken, President of LaFayette College, Delivers Commencement Address to Students.

Members of Davidson’s famous soldier class of 1919 are now alumni. With the delivering of the graduation address today by Dr. J. H. McCracken, president of LaFayette College, Easton, Pa., the awarding of diplomas by Dr. T. W. Lingle, president of the board of trustees, and the delivery of the valedictory by E. A. Woods, first honor man of the class, the class of 1919, considered as an integral part of the college student body, passed into history.

Graduation exercises were very simple, due, no doubt, to the presence in the graduating class of numbers of men who have been wearing khaki, and who but recently doffed the uniform of their country to return for the cap and gown of commencement day. Diplomas were awarded to thirty-nine young men, fifteen receiving the degree of bachelor of science; twenty-one receiving the degree of bachelor of arts, and three the degree of master of arts. In addition to these degrees, honorary degrees were conferred on the following: Dr. J. P. Munroe, Charlotte, Doctor of Laws; Rev. B. R. Lacy, of Atlanta, Doctor of Divinity; Rev. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., Doctor of Divinity; Rev. W. T. Thompson, of Knoxville, Tenn., Doctor of Divinity.

Proceedings were opened in the big Commencement Hall by an invocation offered by Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the college church. Dr. T. W. Lingle, who presided over the exercises in the absence of Dr. Wm. J. Martin, president of the college, made a short talk, introducing Dr. McCracken, who delivered the literary address of the day. Dr. McCracken, president of LaFayette College, at Easton, Pa., delivered one of the best commencement addresses ever heard at Davidson. Scholarly, erudite, polished, and yet filled with hard facts and the straight essence of good old common sense, Dr. McCracken's address was one to hold the closest attention of scholar and layman alike. The speaker is one of those forceful-looking, dynamic men, with a pair of humorous lips that persist in smiling even during the expression of his most serious thoughts, and with a face and chin denoting the character and strength of purpose that made him at one time the youngest college president in the United States, if not in the world. He spoke on the subject, “Defining the College Man,” drawing his illustrations from lessons taught by the world war, and prefaced his address by a short talk showing the community of interest between the Carolinas and Pennsylvania, his present abode.

Following the address by Dr. McCracken, which was heartily applauded, Emery Flinn, of Atlanta, delivered the salutatory for the class, Mr. Flinn being second honor man of his class, and this winning him this distinction. Awarding of medals followed—the coveted Bible medal going to E. A. Woods, of China, son of a missionary, who was also valedictorian of his class. The Senior Oratorical Medal went to R. D. Hall, of Belmont, and the Junior Oratorical Medal to D. M. Chalmers, of Charlotte. The Alumni Association Medal, for the highest honors in the Freshman class, went to J. M. Richards, of Davidson. The latter medal was presented by Dr. B. R. Lacy, of Atlanta, the “Fighting Parson,” who

(Continued on Page 7)