THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI. SOCIETY HOLDS BEST MEETING OF THE YEAR

Mediocre Debate in Eu—Liston Severely Criticises.

Phi Society. Several great things happened on the hill last Saturday night. The D. C. team showed they were still
wild Wildcats, Mary Pickford appeared as picturesque in Rags as she could have in silks, the Band brought forward a
new air, and the negative won in the Phi Society. The meeting as a whole might be characterized as the
best of the year. The speeches were well outlined, and full of life and pep. Several successfully engineered bushes were
pulled in grand style.

The speakers for the affirmative were: C. K. Brown, R. R. Deaver, and T. H. Spence, Jr. Opposing these gentlemen
were: L. L. Wilson, E. Booker and A. L. Currie. The question for discussion was: “Resolved, that the classics should
be made elective in literary courses.” The decision was three in favor of the negative.

J. M. Gaston and C. N. Morrison delivered orations. Mr. Morrison gave a very deep and rather philosophical oration, as
may be gleaned from his subject: “Where the hen scratches, there the worm abides.”

The extemporaneous debate on: “Resolved, that the faculty should allow the students more class and chapel cuts,” was argued by
M. McLeod and R. R. Deaver. McLeod, while on the affirmative, evidently thinks he has enough cuts allowed already, and
Deaver heartily agreed with him.

The president announced that there will be no meeting next Saturday night, the class that is due to come off
then will perform the following week.

Eu Society. The debate in the Saturday night Eumenean Society was very much of the ordinary type. All the speakers
(except Mitchell, who was appointed extemporaneously) showed a certain amount of preparation, but there was little organization and less effective
delivery. Considering, however, that the first four speakers were Freshmen, the debate did very well. Davidson opened the debate for
the affirmative, arguing that many men would be driven away from college if the study of the classical languages were
forced upon them. Sorrels followed with a good speech in which he showed that the men would not be able
to learn the old languages effectively.

$90,000 still to be raised! This was the task which confronted the Million Dollar Campaign Committee on the 20th day
of this month. Whether the $910,000 already pledged is to be paid or the fund increased by some $540,000 depends
on the success of their efforts in these last few days.

The campaign for the advancement of Christian Education in North Carolina was begun last July. At that time the Presbyterians
of the State were asked to contribute the sum of $1,000,000 for this cause. Of that amount Davidson was to
receive 40 per cent, the Presbyterian Colleges for Women, 45 per cent, Mission High Schools 8 per cent, and Union
Theological Seminary 7 per cent. In addition to the $400,000 Davidson was to receive from this source, $100,000 was offered
by the Rockefeller Foundation, and $60,000 more by Mr. C. E. Graham, of Greenville, S. C., on the condition that
the million dollar fund should be raised first. All the pledges made were conditional on the securing of subscriptions for
the entire amount by midnight of the first day of March.

Since the beginning of the campaign, Mr. Melvin, the director of the work, and his corps of assistants have been
engaged in the systematic canvassing of the entire state. This task was completed only a short time ago. During the
short time remaining they are asking that all who for any reason have not been approached or have not made
their pledges, send in voluntary subscriptions to aid in filling out the needed amount. On Sunday, February 29, the pastors
of churches all through the state will be requested to make a special plea for this cause. The contributions made
on that day could state positively just what they did favor (and, indeed, it is doubtful if all of them
knew). All were given credits, however. Boulware then gave an excellent oration on “Salesmanship,” which smacked very strongly of Junior
Speaking efforts. The critic, for some unknown reason, was moved to commend the speaker very highly. The house was so
startled that all thought of further business was abandoned, and the meeting was adjourned.

MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN APPROACHING FINAL STAGE

Ninety Thousand Must be Raised in 10 Days to Reach Goal Set. Only 10 more working days and

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS

SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

MANY FAIR VISITORS (Continued from page 1)

Miss Mary Bradham, New Bern, N.C Pi Kappa Alpha. Misses Julia Sherill, Elizabeth Bowles, Virginia Henkel, Statesville, N.C.; Marjorie Wearn,
Cordelia Wearn, Eunice Blue, Margaret Maxwell, Charlotte, N. C.; Caroline Richardson, Sumter, S. C.; Frances Meadows, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Edith
McBee, Danville, Va.; Louise Haynesworth, Florence, S. C.; Vivian Nelson, Johnson City, Tenn.; Martha Carr, Johnson City, Tenn.; Della Wicker,
Laurinburg, N. C.; Mrs. C. H. Barringer, Charlotte, N. C.

THE RALEIGH: CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop. 221 W. Trade St. Phone 3486 Jetton Drug Company, Agents

THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Beta Theta Pi. Misses Elizabeth McClure, Chester, S. C.; Marjorie Callison, Charleston, S. C.; Mildred Barbour, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth
Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Kathryn Newson, Charlotte, N. C.; Faith Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Sidney Caldwell, Charlotte, N. C.; Cathryn
Scott, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Estelle Tomlinson, Jacksonville, Fla.; Cornelia Sample, Mebane, N. C.; Virginia Arther,
Greenville, S. C.; Sarah Watt, Reidsville, N. C.; Lelia Cox, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Sarah Wilkins, York, S. C.; Helen Regan,
Gastonia, N. C.; Margaret Overton, Salisbury, N. C.; Gaither Pierson, Salisbury, N. C.; Travis Salisbury, Salisbury, N. C.

WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Robinson Shoe Company We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s trade Mail orders given special
attention.will probably decide whether the campaign is to be a success or a failure. The committee believes that the Presbyterians
of the “Old North State” will go over the top on that occasion as they have so often done before.

MANY MEDALS TO BE AWARDED THIS SPRING

Quite a number of medals are to be awarded this spring to the winners in the various society and class
contests as well as for work for the Magazine.

A medal is offered by each society for the best essay. Another medal is offered for the best piece of
fiction from either society, the medal to be awarded some time in April.

The winners in the Fresh-Soph debate will be given a medal. A loving cup is also presented annually to the
society winning this debate. The finals in this contest will take place on the 20th of April. Another coveted medal
is the one offered by the Sigma Upsilon Fraternity for the best work in the Magazine. The work is to
be judged as to quantity as well as quality.

Believing that orators are made, not born, the Juniors are rapidly getting their speeches in shape for the 27th of
this month. On that date the six best speakers will be chosen to compete for the Junior Orator’s Medal, awarded
after the finals in June.

Considering the large number of medals given in the various contests there is a chance for everybody.

Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.

Mrs. A. V. Harrell, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. Grace Adams, Charlotte, N. C.

Kappa Alpha.
Misses Margret McAuley, Rockingham, N. C.; Kathrine Gilmer, Anderson, S. C.; Blanche Savage, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Elizabeth Carrigan, Raleigh,
N. C.; Ruby Spencer, Gastonia, N. C.; Fannie Furlow, Charlotte, N. C.; Bennie Lee Upchurch, Raeford, N. C.; Eunice Blue,
Raeford, N. C.; Beth Huntley, Wadesboro, N. C.; Kathryn Worth, Spartanburg, S. C.; Eloise Martin, Davidson, N. C.; Virginia Scott,
Charlotte, N. C.; Miss De Pont Conyers, Asheville, N. C.; Eloise Doxie, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. Eileen Wagner King, Bristol,
Tenn.; Mrs. Victor Bob Miles.

Bachelors’ Club.
Misses May Stuart, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Bridges, Charlotte, N. C.; Margret Evans, Charlotte, N. C.; Lelia Graham Marsh, Charlotte,
N. C.; Margret Anderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Lingle, Davidson, N. C.; Marie Edgerton, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Pricilla Catchins, Rock
Hill, S. C.; Margret Patterson, Savannah, Ga.; Mildred Smith, Statesville, N. C.; Ressie Chalmers, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. J. T.
Chalmers, Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. J. J. Hill, Red Springs, N. C.; Miss Caroline Crisp, Lenoir, N. C.; Miss Eunice
McAdams, Salisbury, N. C.; Miss Lavinia Boyer, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Elizabeth Burns, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Mary Potter, Newark,
N. J.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N. C.
W. McK. FETZER, Director
Athletic Educational Military

Six years of success and continued growth. Beautiful lake, baseball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect tennis courts, canoe trips to
Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175. For information and catalog address the Secretary, MACON REED, Davidson, N. C., until
June 1; after this date, Brevard, N. C.

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete.
Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice
is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

Misses Sara Jeffreys, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Olivia Wilson, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Lucia Wilkinson, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Cobb, Durham, N.
C.; Mary Knight, Sumter, S. C.; May Jesse, Greenville, S. C.; Pauline Hood, Spartanburg, S. C.; Mary Love Fraleigh, Spartanburg,
S. C.; Alberta Farmer, Anderson, S. C.; Dau Darlington, Laurens, S. C.; Virginia Grey, Laurens, S. C.; Mildred Hull, Shelby,
N. C.; Virginia Mosely, Orangeburg, S. C.; Marjorie Fish, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mary Cooke, Johnson City, Tenn.; Daphonie Wimbish, Winston-Salem, N.
C.; Ruth Hunter, Prosperity, S. C.; Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Davidson, N. C.; Miss Crem Prince, Laurinburg, N. C.; Miss
Ester Patrick, Milan, Tenn.

PEPSI-COLA
Stimulating Exhilarating

Other Visitors.
Misses Louise Manning, Davidson, N. C.; Iva Caldwell, Mount Ulla, N. C.; Helen Meroney, Statesville, N. C.; Edith Brown, Charlotte,
N. C.; Blanche Wright, Goldsboro, N. C.; Evelyn Sadler, Washington, N. C.; Mr. J. B. Nelson, Lenoir, N. C.; Messrs.
John Caldwell, ex-'21, J. E. McKeithen, ’18, Jeff Inman, '19, James McQueen, ex-’20, W. A. Edgerton, ex-’21, R. D. Hall,
'19, R. E. L. Brown, ex-'22, G. M. Carmichael, ex-’22, W. P. Harris, ex-’20, J. B. Mallard, ex-’18.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories
