‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 28, 1920.

Davidson R. O. T. C. Battalion Standing at Retreat, May 5, 1920.

GRAND MANEUVERS AND INSPECTION

Captain Cummins Inspects, and Awards Honor Flag to “C” Company.

On Wednesday, May 5, Captain Cummins, Infantry, P. M. S. and T. at Clemson, inspected the battalion to report on
Davidson’s qualifications to be rated as a Distinguished College by the War Department. Captain Cummins is one of the officers
designated to conduct such inspections in the Southeastern Department.

In honor of the occasion, and to supply the necessary time, classes were suspended for the day. The morning of
the eventful day and the preceding evening saw such a carnival of primping as may go on record as one
of the really busy periods in the history of Davidsonians. And it is safe to say that local shine boys
will remember it as a time of all-pervading opulence, so freely were dimes dispensed, in a last effort to make
long-neglected “hard boys” look presentable. The incessant whine of whisker-removing implements could but remind one of the mowing scene in
“Snow-Bound”—“Where merry mowers, hale and strong, swept, scythe on scythe, their swaths along the low, green valleys of the sea,”
or something like that. At any rate, things were so slick Wednesday morning you could skate on them.

Since this is military, it had better be reported a little military: so mess was celebrated at the usual early
hour, at 8:30 the bugle corps sounded the assembly. From that hour until past noon things went rapidly. First a
tent camp was made, and each company duly inspected. Then the whole battalion was put through the various courses, company
by company. Close order, bayonet, extended order, and physical training about covers it. It was then getting about time for
noon mess, so camp was broken, and companies marched to quarters and dismissed. There was time for just a little
smoke and another shine, and the bugles called another formation.

The inspector wanted to see a little field work. When the battalion was formed, Major Hall published a march order,
the substance of which was that Concord was being overrun by Bolsheviki forces, and that we had been ordered to
quiet things down. “D” Company was designated to form the advance guard, and the column moved out, headed for Concord.
Captain Cummins decided that it would not be necessary to go all the way to Concord, as the Bolsheviki had
probably already been scared off. So he called off the campaign, and sent some of the Motor Transport folks to
stop the point, which had adopted the motto, “Beat Bolsheviks or Bust,” and was miles ahead. Finally, the last of
the party were run down, and the battalion formed again on the main parade.

During the entire day, the competition between the companies had been running very close, and it was only a matter
for speculation as to who should emerge victorious. The battalion was duly presented for parade, and, in publishing the orders,
the adjutant called the Seniors to front and center, and “C” Company to receive the honor flag. The Seniors being
posted in line with the staff, Captain McCaskill formed his company before the reviewing stand and received the award. The
parade for the Seniors was then ordered.

At the conclusion of the day's events, Captain Cummins addressed the cadets, congratulating them upon their successful work, and exhorting
them to still better work in the future. He spoke of the honor that it is to any college to
win the distinguished rating. The first try at it might not be successful; but try again, and keep on trying.
That a good day’s work had been done was the current opinion, and that it had been well worth the
effort. There can be no denying that there was certainly some “putting out,” if there ever was such a thing.
The result of the inspection will be known after the board to decide it has convened at Washington on June
30, and here is hoping we shoot 'em! Whatever the outcome, it is a sure fact that a good fight
was made for it. Things look good for next year. The whole outfit will have become more seasoned, and there
will be some 50 men back from the camps. There will also be new equipment, and more equipment. Our battalion
is going to be harder to beat next year than ever before.

CAPTAIN MUELLER WILL NOT RETURN THIS FALL

After 16 months of hard and faithful service in the establishment of an R. O. T. C. unit here, the
Government has seen fit to place Captain Mueller elsewhere. He is going to act as cavalry instructor at a summer
camp in Massachusetts. At the completion of this camp, he is ordered to report to the Second Cavalry unit at
Camp Oglethorpe, Georgia. This news came as a shock to both the colonel and the students. The order coming in
the commencement season found everyone busy and part of the students already gone to their homes, therefore the college will
not be able to give the colonel the send-off he deserves.

Captain Mueller or Colonel, as he will always be called by the students, was the ideal man for Davidson and
the betterment of the R. O. T. C. He was well liked by all the students and was a brother
to all the members of the faculty. He was never tired of working, and the success of the R. O.
T. C. this year was entirely due to his efforts. His influence in government circles secured the best of equipment
for his men. Even overcoats were issued when commanders of other units several grades higher than he had none. He
requisitioned and received equipment for the good of the students that many men would never have thought of.

Davidson is a school of tradition and ideals and her policy always had been non-military. The students had been allowed
freedom from restraint such as not many do. The colonel understood the sentiment and did not throw himself against the
wills of the college men, but went easy and tried to show them that some military restraint was a good
thing. He proved this satisfactorily and had most of the students reconciled to military rule. The place of Captain Mueller
will be hard to fill and it is with deep regret that the college sees him go. While all the
students might not like his course, they are all agreed in saying he was a real man and the man
for Davidson.O. T. C. WINS HIGH PLACE IN SOUTHEASTERN DIVISION
Stands Eighth Among Twenty-Seven Leading Southern Colleges.

Davidson College stood eighth in the list of colleges in the Southeastern Division. This was before the last inspection by
Captain Cumming, which was for the Distinguished Rating, and the result of that has not yet been announced. Considering the
fact that 27 of the best Southern colleges are represented, eighth place is not at all bad, and the military
department is to be congratulated upon its good work.

The following colleges compose this division:
Alabama—Auburn, Marion Institute, Spring Hill College, University of Alabama.
Arkansas—Little Rock College, Ouachita College, University of Arkansas.
Florida—Stetson University, University of Florida.
Georgia—Emory University, Georgia Tech, North Georgia Agriculture College.
Louisiana—State University of Louisiana.
Mississippi—Mississippi A. & M.
North Carolina—Davidson College, Trinity, N. C. State, University of North Carolina.
South Carolina—Presbyterian College, Citadel, Clemson, Wofford, University of South Carolina.
Tennessee—Union University, Vanderbilt, University of Tennessee.

EU SOCIETY REACHED HIGH WATER MARK IN ENROLLMENT

This year has certainly marked a high water point in the history of the Eumenean Society. Under the skillful guidance
of three of the ablest presidents she has ever known; Messrs. Askew, Sullivan, and McGirt, the Society has increased so
greatly both in membership and in efficiency, that the incoming officers are beginning to fear, like Alexander of old, that
there will be nothing left for them to do.

Beginning the year with a great burst of enthusiasm, the society quickly reached an enrollment of a hundred men, including
those in the Freshman Society. The Freshmen exhibited such an interest in the work, and so many of them joined
the Senior Society after Christmas that it was necessary to divide the society into two sections, meeting on two different
nights.

The literary part of the work has been most excellent. There have been three and sometimes four men on a
side at the regular debates. Seventeen men entered the declamation contest, and eleven spoke in the Fresh-Soph Debate preliminaries. The
orations have also been excellent, though many of them smacked all too strongly of Junior and Senior speaking efforts. Finally,
the Eumeneans have furnished half of the inter-collegiate debaters, and have won both the Fresh-Soph and the Junior-Senior debates. Also,
a Eumenean won the Junior orator’s medal. Surely this has been a gala year for the Eumenean!

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

LIBRARY DATA
From May 15, 1919 to May 15, 1920
Books on hand, May 15, 1919, 602
Books received during the year and catalogued, 593.
Books received during the year and not catalogued, 37.
Total now on hand, 27,232.
Circulation for the year, 7,249.
Number of users, 403
Average per user, 18.
Magazines and religious weekly papers, 64.
Daily papers, 11.

MAGAZINE SELECTS STAFF FOR NEXT YEAR

Under the direction of the newly elected Editor-in-Chief, W. P. Cumming, the next year's staff for the Davidson College Magazine
has already been selected. As it is both an honor and a privilege to be on the staff, and the
positions also require ability and willingness to work, the Editor-in-Chief took great care in picking out his men, and the
magazine next year gives promise of being the best in its history. The places already filled are, J. R. Boulware,
Jr., Assistant Editor; D. L. Mahood, Exchange Editor; D. R. Freeman, Poetry Editor; C. J. Matthews, Alumni Editor; G. H.
Cornelson, Humorous Editor; W. J. Cooper, Fiction Department; A. M. Mitchell, Manager; A. C. Ormond and P. D. Miller, Assistant
Managers. Several Editors will also be added next fall. From this staff the student body should receive an up-to-date and
progressive magazine and its hearty co-operation should be given them at all times.

PHI SOCIETY DOES GOOD WORK

In Spite of Handicaps. Meetings Regular and Greater Interest Shown.

The work of the Phi Society for the year has been a steady uphill pull. Owing to poor heating facilities,
the attendance has been too small for the most good to all concerned. Notwithstanding, in spite of many handicaps, much
has been accomplished. Under the leadership of Chalmers, Calhoun, and Foscue in the order named, there have been regular meetings.
As a rule, more interest has been manifest in the orations and extemporaneous debates, than in the regular debates and
declamations. Considering the negligence of the treasurer in collecting the fines the order has been unusually good. But as always
there have been a few who continually took it upon themselves to “keep up the Pep.”

In spite of inter-society work, the Phis have put two men on the debating teams. In its contests with the
old rival sister society, the Eus, though they have outnumbered, the Phis have creditably upheld their part. Chalmers, the star
of the Phis, as well as the campus, has walked away with his trophies as usual. The society presented diplomas
to the following men: E. N. Booker, L. G. Calhoun, D. M. Chalmers, A. L. Foscue, H. C. Hamilton, C.
Hunter, W. C. Neel, R. E. McClure, T. H. Spence, and L. L. Wilson. With steam heat installed and such
men in charge as C. G. Long, president, J. H. McKeithen, vice-president, and J. C. Wool, treasurer, the society promises
to regain its usual supremacy on the campus, and accomplish much more honor to both society and members.

In looking over the staff for the 1920 Quips and Cranks, everything points to having an excellent Annual next year.
A partial list of the staff is as follows: Long, C. H., Editor-in-Chief; McCaskill, C. M., Business Manager; Literary Department,
Walker, J. R., Gaston, J. M., Beatty, E. A., Doubles, M. R., Long, F. V.; Department, Rogers, R. L., McIlwaine,
R. R., Buchannan, W. S., Sprunt, J., and Bitzer, R. Others will be appointed after the opening of college next
fall. The Editor says the Annual will be out by the middle of April, so the pictures will all have
to be taken in the fall. The contracts have already been made. Owing to the increased cost of printing, the
publication will cost more than it ever has before. Anyone having ideas for the Annual (Continued on page 7)

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

Meyer Davis’ Orchestra which has formerly been booked from its southern headquarters at the Yarborough Hotel, Raleigh, North Carolina, has
discontinued this office and until further notice will be booked direct from the Washington offices at the New Willard Hotel,
Washington. Patrons of the Meyer Davis’ Orchestra are advised that the Orchestra can be obtained only through the New Willard
Hotel, Washington. Music and others desiring to give dances are advised to contact the original Meyer Davis’ offices at the
New Willard Hotel, Washington.

MEYER DAVIS’ ORCHESTRA
Orchestra Extraordinary
FAMOUS FOR ITS DANCE MUSIC
