THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. For your events, Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Rev. C. M. Cook, '13, has moved from Boston to Donalsonville, Ga.

Rev. J. L. McBride, '16, of Stuart, Va., has taken work at Wilson, N. C., and his home is at 208 North Goldsboro Street.

Withers, of Davidson. Present were Messrs. Deal and Litaker, of Raleigh; Cheatham, Henderson, and Mrs. W. S. Patterson, Madison, Fla., sisters; W. G. Rutledge, of Stanleys, an uncle; Mrs. George H. Currie, of Clayton, a niece.

DR. BANKS WITHERS CALLED BY DEATH Many Friends and Relatives Gather at Davidson for Funeral Service.

The funeral services of Dr. Banks Withers, prominent physician of Mooresville, formerly of Enochsville, who died at the Charlotte Sanitorium Saturday evening at 6 o'clock as the result of appendicitis, were held at the Withers residence in Davidson Monday afternoon at 3 o'clock, in charge of Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the Presbyterian church. The choir of the Presbyterian church sang the funeral hymns. Honorary pallbearers included Dr. J. P. Munroe, of Charlotte; Drs. Bell, Todd, Taylor, and Wilson, of Mooresville; Dr. Flowe, of Kannapolis; Dr. J. M. McConnell, Justice J. J. Withers, and G. L. Active pallbearers were Messrs. Deal and Litaker, of Enochsville; J. A. White and H. N. Howard, of Mooresville; Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. W. R. Grey, W. H. Thompson, H. P. Helper, and Archie Brown, of Davidson.

Among the out-of-town relatives present for the funeral were Dr. W. A. Withers, Mrs. Goode, and the following cousins: Graham and Wade Rutledge, Mrs. M. E. Alexander, David Henderson, and Andrew Henderson, of Stanleys; Dr. H. C. Henderson, Mr. and Mrs. C. N. Gillette, and Mr. and Mrs. P. H. Williams, of Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. O. H. King, Mr. and Mrs. A. Mc. Henderson, of Mooresville; Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Henderson, of Mooresville, and John H. Rutledge, of Concord.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Lenhardt Wyatt, ex-'15, of Easley, S. C., was married on the 27th of October to Miss Annie Younans, of Cottageville, S. C.

H. C. Hamilton, '20, of High Point, is now head of the History Department of the St. Petersburg High School of St. Petersburg, Fla.

Dr. Joseph MacLean, '82, field director American Red Cross, 25 George Street, Charleston, is making an appeal in the church papers for books and magazines to be sent to soldiers and sailors in West Indies hospitals. Government boats leave Charleston frequently and material can be forwarded promptly by Dr. MacLean.

J. Caldwell McDonald, '15, will be married on November 10 to Miss Janet Mellon, of Charlotte, the wedding to take place in the First Presbyterian church.

Joseph A. Ayers, '14, is now located at 335 Center Avenue, Weston, W. Va.

Invitations have been received to the wedding of W. Gilbert Morrison, '16, to Miss Lucile Heath, of Port Gibson, Miss., to take place November 17, at 7:30 p.m. Mr. Morrison is located at 29 S. French Street, Memphis, Tenn.

Cloyd Potts, ex-'10, of Davidson, N. C., was married to Miss Gladys Henderson, on Saturday evening, October 30. The wedding was a quiet one, only a few friends being present. Mr. Potts is one of the most popular and successful of the young business men of the village, and Miss Henderson is equally admired and trusted.

Prof. J. A. McLaughlin, '87, who has been located in Oklahoma, is now at Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.

M. S. Kennedy, Jr., '18, is farming at Comersville, Tenn.

John Childs Calhoun, ex-'18, was married on October 14 to Miss Margaret Dial, of Laurens, S. C.

BENJAMIN RICE LACY The Fighting Chaplain of the 113th Field Artillery Now Holds Important Pastorate.

Benjamin Rice Lacy, '06, the son of B. R. and Mary Burwell Lacy, was born in Raleigh, N. C., in 1886. There he spent all the early years of his life, receiving his early education at Raleigh High School and the Denison Preparatory School in Raleigh. In the fall of 1903 “Ben" entered Davidson College, from which institution he graduated in 1906. He was a splendid student, being one of the first men of his class in regard to scholarship. He played on the baseball team for three years and was manager of it his Senior year. But he was an athlete outside the realm of baseball also, for when a Senior he was one of the best quarterbacks that ever played on a Davidson eleven. He was a member of the Philanthropic Society here and of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity. The year immediately following his graduation he spent teaching in Decatur Preparatory School, at Decatur, Ga. In September, 1908, he received the Cecil Rhodes Scholarship, being the first Davidson man to be awarded that honor. Accordingly, the years 1908, '09, and '10 he spent in advanced study at Oxford. On his return in 1911 he entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond and finished there in 1914. In the spring of 1914 he made a trip to Palestine and returned through Europe, finding himself in Switzerland at the outbreak.of the great war. Mr. Lacy accepted the assistant pastorship of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh on his return from Europe. This position he held until America entered the war. Immediately upon our entrance into the war, he was appointed chaplain of the First N.C. (later the 113th) Field Artillery. In this capacity, he served throughout the entire conflict. He joined this unit at Camp Sevier, S.C., from whence they proceeded to Camp DeColt Quidan, France. He was in the two great offensive sectors of Mt. Mihiel and Argonne and was there cited for bravery. For some time after the signing of the armistice, he was with the Second Army of Occupation in Luxemburg, Germany. After several months, he returned home, landing at Newport News, Va., on March 17, 1919, and was discharged at Camp Jackson, March 29, 1919.

On May 7 of last year, Mr. Lacy was married to Miss Emma White, daughter of Rev. W. M. White, of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh, N.C. Last spring, he accepted the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga. This is one of the leading charges in our Southern Presbyterian Church, and Mr. Lacy is the youngest man that ever accepted a church of such rank as this one has. At commencement, 1919, he was made vice-president of the Davidson Alumni Association; and no better man could have been selected. Ben Lacy, your alma mater wishes you continued success in everything.

Douglas Elliott, ex-’20, and “Turk” Shaw, ‘18, are at the University of North Carolina studying medicine and law respectively. Edward P. Childs, Jr., ex-'18, is located at 525 Crosby Street, Akron, O. He writes that “there are several D.C. men here, and we enjoy greatly getting together to talk over old times.” Wm. S. Overton, '18, is in textile work at Kannapolis, N.C. Capt. J. W. Moore, ‘12, and Mrs. Moore, of Winston-Salem, are being congratulated on the arrival of John W., Jr., on November 1. J. Edward Johnston, ‘14, and George E. Wilson, ‘10, have both undergone quite recently operations for appendicitis.

“DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE” INTERESTS MOVIE FANS

Davidson students were fortunate in seeing John Barrymore in Robert Louis Stevenson's famous novel, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, last Saturday night at the movies. The acting throughout the picture was excellent and especially so in the combined character of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. The story had a decidedly mysterious and gruesome aspect and was so well presented that the entire audience was kept in an intense strain at all times.

Dr. Jekyll, a young physician of London, became interested in the theory that man is made of two different sets of characteristics, the good and the bad. He worked night and day in his laboratory trying to find something that would separate these two human elements and finally discovered a chemical, which when taken would change him into a hideous fiend, passionate, cruel, and with no sense of discretion or care. He also discovered a substance that would restore him to his normal self again. He soon became a slave to this habit of interchanging himself and would go out amid the lowest kinds of society as a Mr. Hyde to join in nightly revels of drunkenness and cruelty. Finally, in one of these states of madness, he murdered George Carew, the father of his sweetheart, in cold blood, beating him to death on the streets of the city. He became desperate and tried to rid himself of the habit but could not. His chemicals were soon exhausted and as he could obtain no more, he had to lock himself in his laboratory, for now the fits came and disappeared without the aid of chemicals. Each spell remained with him longer than any of the previous ones and he foresaw that he would finally change into Mr. Hyde forever. He therefore poisoned himself and ended his miserable life.

Among the alumni present at the game Saturday were: W. F. Hall, ‘20; W. M. Hall, ‘20; E. B. Nesbit, '17; Stuart Gilchrist, '16; D. M. Chalmers, '20; H. Barringer, ex-'23; J. P. McNeill, '6; L. L. McAllister, ’20; Charlie Angle, '18; Jimmie Mattox, ex-’18; J. C. McMaster, ex-’20; “Junie” McClease, ex-’19; Channing Brown, William Thompson, J. T. Creighton, W. J. Roddey, Jr., Bill Julian, Robt. Abernathy, W. L. Davidson, J. B. Johnston, Dobson Loraine, Dan McLeod, Earl McLean, Brown Wilson, “Pink” Rankin, J. C. McDonald, O. P. Hart, '19; W. H. Harrell, '20; Jim Carson, ‘16; “Woodey” McKay, '15; T. H. Wilson, ‘20; W. P. Harris, ‘19.

Established 1879

A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co., Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty Street BALTIMORE, MD.

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN Charlotte, N.C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry OLDEST LARGEST BEST

The Macamac Company, Agency

Robinson Shoe Company Gastonia, N.C.

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION