Vol. VIII.

POLITY CLUB MAKES PREPARATION FOR YEAR’S WORK

The opening meeting of the Polity Club for the year 1920-21 was called to order by President F. V. Long on Tuesday, September 21, in Dr. McConnell’s classroom. This organization, whose membership is composed strictly of upperclassmen, meets every two weeks for the purpose of discussing international affairs.

The first business to come before the club was to decide upon the question to be discussed during the coming year. The Polish question was brought up and favorably considered, but as yet no definite topics have been decided upon. At present, there are 13 members of the club, including three faculty members—Drs. S. F. Shewmake, J. M. McConnell, and T. W. Lingle. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, October 5, at which time the initiation ceremony will be held for any men wishing to become members. The officers of the club are: F. V. Long, president; C. K. Brown, vice-president; and A. F. Fricker, secretary.

Davidson to Meet Generals on Virginia Soil

Washington and Lee Squad Ready for Next Saturday’s Battle

The Generals had their first scrimmage last Saturday in preparation for their opening game against the Wildcats this week. Very few men are back, and some rare judgment is having to be exercised by Coach Raftery to fill gaps in last year’s star eleven. With the Princeton game, the pride of the W. & L. schedule this year, only three weeks off, the men are being run through hard workouts daily. In the line of last year’s team, only three men returned: Captain Moore, Sanford, and Mattox. The loss of Bethel, towering guard and mainstay in the line, will affect the defense materially. The backfield, however, is unusually strong. Raines, Silverstein, Cobb, MacDonald, and Coghill all returned, and this end of the work is not giving the coaches much trouble. The chief attention is being paid to the line, where weak spots seem to be hard to fill. The work of Barrow, towering 200-pounder, at sub-guard last year, has greatly pleased the coaches this year. Others among last year’s squad who are candidates this year are Patterson, W., Patterson, J., Henderson, Bemis, Riggs, Frew, Thomas, Robinson, and Marshall. Of the new men, those who are showing up well are Herndon; Vogel, of Roanoke High; Terry, from Swarthmore Prep.; Leake, of Memphis University School; and Tucker, of Charleston, W. Va., all-state halfback in prep school circles. The game will no doubt be full of fight as the Wildcats are out to blot out the 7 to 0 defeat administered to them last year by the Generals. The game is an annual affair and is always looked forward to with much enthusiasm by both colleges, as each is a representative of clean sport in their respective states. “Go get ’em, Wildcats!”

Miss Lelia Cox, of Winston-Salem, spent a few hours on the Hill Monday. Henry Barringer, ex-’23, visited friends on the Hill Sunday.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 1, 1920.

An exciting moment in Fresh-Soph baseball game.

Prof. J. M. Wilson Brings Message to Students

Hangchow Christian College and Its Needs was Subject of Lecture

At the “Y” service last Sunday evening, Mr. J. M. Wilson delivered an interesting message to the Davidson student body concerning the work of Christian education in China. In the short space of one address, Mr. Wilson necessarily narrowed down so broad a subject and spoke more specifically of the work at Hangchow Christian College, of Hangchow, China. He spoke briefly of the history of the college, showing its growth, and telling of some of the great things which had been accomplished through its graduates. Then turning to the present, he showed the work of the college now, and many of the bright aspects which encourage the work from every side. Mr. Wilson spoke, too, of the needs, both of this college and for other colleges in China, and urged that the students, as American men, would see that their part of this need was met. “But some,” said Mr. Wilson, “ask, ‘Why educate the Chinese; is it not the mission of the Church to evangelize, rather than educate, the world?’ It is hard,” he replied, “to show how difficult it is to explain the Gospel to the Chinese. Before they can accept it, they must understand it; and to understand it, they must be taught. Furthermore, the missionaries can never hope to evangelize China unless they make them a self-supporting, native Church; and for such a church, there must be educated leaders. It is the purpose of Hangchow Christian College to meet these needs. Of the 170-odd graduates of the college, entering into almost every walk of life, there have been only four who were not Christians. In the vicinity (Continued on page 8)

Before Brawn of North Carolina State Wildcats

Aggies Win Hard-Fought Contest by 23 to 0; Warriors Show Consistent Attack

Ready, Captain Weathers? Ready, Captain Hammett? Look! Gurly is going to kick off. Gee, what a kick! But look! Shep is bringing it back five yards, seven yards, ten yards—now he’s down at last. Look at Frog! Right through the line for 10 yards on the first play; but oh—there goes the ball rolling out and State’s on it. And thus it went throughout the first game of the season in which N. C. State College, of Raleigh, defeated Davidson by the score of 23 to 0, on the former's own grounds. The Davidson team completely outclassed their opponents in practically every stage.of the game, but the heavier Tech team, aided by the stellar work of Faucette and Gurley, and a costly mix-up in signals on the part of the Wildcats in the last quarter, turned the tide in favor of the farmers and engineers. In the forward pass, the Presbyterians had their opponents completely baffled, and several times the State’s goal was seriously threatened. For State, Faucette was the outstanding star, his long end runs accounting for most of their gains. Gurley also played good ball and rarely failed to gain when called upon to carry the oval.

For Davidson, it is hard to select. The entire team, without a single exception, played wonderful ball. In the line, Captain Hammett was master of ceremonies. It was fascinating to watch the big fellow wade through the line, spill the interference, and then calmly seat himself upon the ground with the man carrying the ball reclining gently in his arms. Brady, at center, and LaFar, at guard, played the entire game, which is 'nuif-sed on a Dick Richards crosses play. 

Davidson’s First Chautauqua a Great Success
Lecturers and Musicians Entertain Large Audiences of Citizens and Students

“Have you bought a season ticket for the Chautauqua?” was the question asked everyone last Tuesday. This was the first Chautauqua tent in Davidson's history that has ever raised its wide-spreading shelter over the tennis courts at the corner of Main Street and Concord Avenue. Owing to the untiring efforts of Dr. Arbuckle and other leading citizens of the community, one of the best Chautauquas in the country was contracted for. The Radcliffe Chautauqua has an unusual variety of gifted speakers, entertainers, and musicians on its program, and the community and students enjoyed the three days they were here very much.

The first entertainment was given last Tuesday afternoon at 3:15 p.m. Dr. Frederick D. Losey, a former university professor of English, and one of the most noted lecturers in the country, spoke on the subject, “Benefits Forget.” The lecture was a plea for better use of the English language in our everyday life. Many are forgetting the benefits we have received from our forefathers in their giving to us the most expressive language in existence—to those who care to grasp its untold wealth of words and literature. Dr. Losey was followed by the Neapolitan Quartette, which gave a musical program of fine variety, ranging from Lucia Sextette to the modern Dardanella. At the evening performance, Dr. Losey spoke on “The Government of the United States.” Much time was spent in bringing forth striking parallels between our industrial and educational system and pre-war Germany. Dr. Losey was a disciple of American initiative, against efficiency, and pleaded for a return to the humanities from the thought of merely making a living. The four versatile Italians in the Neapolitan Quartette again rendered the musical program. Senor Toney proved quite amusing to all of the children with his sleight of hand tricks. The major part of the program was semi-classical and was enjoyed by all.

Chautauqua Thursday.
The second day of the Radcliffe Chautauqua saw no interruption in its successful march of instructive and pleasure-giving entertainment, Jupiter Pluvius performing every te with winning run. Photo by McIlwaine 23 to 0 Score—Red and Black War- sweltering day like last Saturday. In the backfield, Spratt Moore established several track records as he circled the ends. Shepard, N., Cassell, McFadden, Voce, and Massey all let them know that the Wildcats were running wild. Douglas, for the first time running a Davidson team, handled the job like a veteran. The first touchdown came after seven minutes of play. Gurley kicked off to Shepard, N., who returned the ball to his own 40-yard line. On the first play, Cassell tore off 15 yards on a short end run but lost the ball when tackled. After three small gains, Gurley made a first down. Gradually, State wended its way toward Davidson's goal until in striking distance, when Parks carried it over for the first touchdown. Gurley failed to kick goal. Gurley again kicked off to Shepard, who returned the ball 10 yards. Cassell made eight around right end and McFadden made it first down. Shepard took 10 around left end. A pass from McFadden to Cassell netted 30 yards. Shepard made three around left end, and another pass, McFadden to Cassell, made it first down. At this time, it seemed that Davidson would soon score, as she was playing rings around her opponents, but the next pass was intercepted and the ball became the possession of Tech. Faucette made a beautiful run around right end for 20 yards, but the Davidson defense stiffened and State was forced to punt. The quarter ended with the ball in the Wildcat’s possession on their own 20-yard line.

At the beginning of the second quarter, Moore cut loose for 20 yards around left end. However, Ripple (Continued on page 8)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.
Thursday — Davidsonians arrive??
7:00 p.m.—Leaders’ Mission Study Class meeting.
Friday—Wildcats leave for Lexington, Va.
Saturday—3:30 p.m.—D. C. vs. W.& L.
7:15 p.m.—Literary Societies.
8:15 p.m.—Movies: “The Temple’s Telegram.”
Sunday — 10 a.m.—Mission Study Classes.
6:15 p.m.—"Y” Service.
Monday—7:15 p.m.—Junior Literary Societies.

OUR FIRST REVIEWS ARE HERE. DON’T GET “SHOT”