LYCEUM PROMISES INTERESTING PROGRAM MONDAY NIGHT
St. Claire Sisters to Present Musical Numbers and Readings.

After strenuous effort on the part of the managers, C. H. Long and E. A. Nash, the Redpath Company was
induced to send as the second number of the season, the St. Claire Sisters. They will appear on Monday night,
November 1, at 8 o’clock, in Shearer Hall. Although the numbers last year were a great success, the managers this
year were a little more costly in their tastes and the very best that goes on the Redpath circuit will
be shown here. The additional number of students in the student body is expected to help defray the added expense
of better entertainments. Ralph Bingham, as good or better than most of last season's, has recommended very highly the St.
Claire Sisters. A man of his character and ability should be amply qualified to judge the merits of a number.

Each one of the four sisters is beautiful and talented both in the art of playing musical instruments and in
singing. Their favorite instrument is the violin, but they are also right there when it comes to playing either a
mandolin, banjo, or piano. Among the many features of the program is the banjo quartet which has been pronounced by
those who have heard it to be one of the first order. Some of the other features are: quartet numbers,
violin solos and duets, orchestral music of violins, mandolins, and piano, and pianologues. There are also some humorous songs with
plenty of pep and action, and the banjo orchestra of a violin, two banjos, and a piano is said to
be especially effective with popular music. The whole number is exceptionally good and of the very highest order and ought
to attract a record-breaking crowd both of students and townspeople.

Concord visitors for last Saturday's game were Mrs. Harris, Misses Adelaide and Elizabeth Harris, Armstrong Bethea, Walker, Elizabeth Gillon, Frances
Ridenhour, Margaret Morris, and Lucy Lentz, Messrs. Conrad Hill, B. M. Gillon, J. W. Cook, and Halbert Webb.

WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address

A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding
trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them. The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee
of quality satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY
send records on approval.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Pre Observations.
The Wildkittens are not Maltese.
The absence regulations have grown some.
The best way to win an argument with a girl is to keep quiet.
Girls are like mules—they “kick” us without giving warning.

A Story With a Moral.
A man up above us used to
Have a notion that he was Caruso,
Till we got a brick-bat,
And hit him with that.
So now he has ceased to do so.

You tell ‘em Tennis Racket, you've got the guts.

Saturday night—
Zeb Morris—"Some of the boarding houses make a specialty of grits, others of zip. When you get tired of one
you must change boarding houses.”
Taylor—“Ever try the Infirmary? They give you swell eats there, homemade cake, ice-cream and so forth.”
Sunday P. M—
Zeb Morris taken to Infirmary. Getting along nicely.

Notice.
There will be a meeting of the Hugh-John-Harding Club Monday at 3 p.m.
Getty Guille, Secretary.
Guy Jones, Asst. Sec. (Political Adv.)

We submit the following to prove that Shakespeare had a college education—at any rate he understood college life, as is
shown by his description of the four college classes.
Fresh Class—A Comedy of Errors.
Soph Class—Much Ado About Nothing.
Junior Class—A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Senior Class—All’s Well That Ends Well.

Does She?
“Does Tennessee what Arkansas?”
“Alaska.”

We are told that Doc LaFar tried to get a wax figure, in Myer-Greentree’s, at Richmond, to exchange a pair
of shoes for him. We are also informed that he complained to the manager because of the poor service of
this clerk.

Old Nebuchadnezzar, they tell,
Ate grass like a dumb animal:
When he struck a thistle,
It made the king whistle,
But he beat out the H. C. L.

DR. F. Branded.
When the donkey saw the zebra,
He began to switch his tail;“Well I never,” was his comment, “There’s a mule that’s been in jail.” —The Horse
Lover.

You tell ‘em, Near-Beer, you've got no kick coming.

Oh Where.
Jap—"Do you know where my yellow pencil has gone? I left it here on the table a few minutes ago.”
John G—"I'll bite—where has it gone?”

EGRET TENT ATT TASH
A ARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
Write for special service plan
M. DUNLAP

Same—Only Different.
Sam Brady—“How you feel?”
Ratchford—"Rotten.”
Sam—"What's on your mind?”
Ratch.—"Nothing—boil on my neck.”

The Mark of Fame.
Babe Ruth, they say, was bragging to Ty Cobb—"See what's happened now—a cigar has been named for me.”
Ty Cobb—"That's nothing, the first pipe was named in my honor.”

What If He Likes Them?
Voice from Main Street Window to Hard Hadley Hill—"If you don't like my pomegranates don't shake my tree.”

Give Weeks the Pup.
Professor—"Mr. Weeks, what class are you in?”
Weeks (innocently)—"This class, doctor.”

You tell ‘em Uniform, you don't have fits.
Fresh—"What kind of material is your pipe made of?”
Soph—"Cured cherry.”
Fresh—“Cured! What disease did it have?”
Senior—“Cured! dead.”

The following is an extract from a letter received by Fresh Minter:
“You dear cute thing: every time I think of thee my heart goes up and down like an old-time churn
dasher, and a glorious sensation of unutterable joy capers over my heart like young goats over a stable roof. The
thrill is like Spanish needles jagging me through a thin garment. So low am I in the sea of glory
when I hear from you, my brain whirls around like a bumblebee under a glass tumbler, my tongue refuses to
wag, and, in silent but blissful adoration, I drink in the unlimited affections of your bountiful love, as a thirsty
man in days gone by drank a glass of good corn or rye whiskey. I think of you from the
crowing of the cocks until the putting to bed of the bull.
“Write to me soon, and remember in the mud-puddle of your affection to keep one little tadpole wiggling for me.
“Yours in dark corners,
“Snooks.”

Getting An Excuse a Skimpshun.
(By the Author of “The Income Tax—Simplified.)
I. Write your cook’s third husband seven years prior to the time absence is to occur.
II. Have the excuse made out in fifthlicate, and stamped by a notorious republican.
III. Forward copies to the Bolshevik president and the governor of Mt. Mourn.
IV. Ask the Ouija board for its approval and if O. K., then—
V. Tack the document on the bulletin board for thirty days, and salute it when you pass.
VI. Then send it to the laundry.
VII. If it happens to come back, hang it out to dry.
VIII. Now present it and you'll have no trouble getting off.
Not hard to do after you once see into it, is it?

Famous Generals.
W. & L. disaster.
nuisance.
Hall.
Pershing.
Attorney

Mrs. W. H. Howell, of Wilmington, mother of J. D. Howell, ’21, spent Sunday on the Hill. Mrs. Howell was
in Charlotte for the executive committee meeting of the state Christian Endeavor Union.

Say it with Flowers
L. A. ELLIOTT
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

See me for your feeds
New Central Hotel
Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
At the Powerhouse Agency
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

EVER-STICK PATCHING
STICK and STAY STUCK
“If you want it off, do not put it on”
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats---anything made of rubber.
Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package
by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Wholesale Accessories
Spartanburg, S.C.

OUR NEW HOME
Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent
