4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920

Open Forum
Before Condemning the R. O. T. C. — Read This.
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Fellow Members of the ROTC
Can it be that some of us expect to kill out the R. O. T. C. by destroying the pep and spirit, in fact, all esprit de corps and discipline itself! Stop and think!

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

The majority of us are in the same hole. We didn’t happen to enter as Juniors and consequently our Government calls upon us in a very slight way to do our bit—just one hour each day—and take the place of those who gave up everything for the defense of our blessed country in the hour of her need. None of us can see much reason for it, but it would be absurd to think of Congress authorizing such an extensive branch of the service if there were not a very real need for some form of protection until peace has actually been established and this worldwide spirit of restlessness among all classes has been subdued—all selfish considerations put aside, who could better give up part of their time for this purpose than the college student, who must have some form of regular exercise! Haven't we enough confidence in the democratic principles of our Government to know it will not continue any militaristic policy any longer than conditions demand it! This point clearly understood, and next a very distinctly patriotic duty devolves upon us to support our organization. Under Lee’s Boy Scout regime, with toy guns and Y. M. C. A. imitation khaki, who would have thought of old Davidson’s ever having such complete equipment for this training as the R. O. T. C. has given us. Justice demands that we make good use of this property. From another viewpoint, looking out for number one: who with sane judgment would prefer “physical torture” two years running, according to the old custom? As for that extra half-credit—we are thankful, even if we do have special instructions about maps, Bolsheviki and other subjects along with it.

Those of us who have put into practice Coach Fetzer’s advice to get all we can out of our class work, especially to “spot the professors” on everything they emphasize and take careful notes on the important details, can swear that it’s good dope. Why not apply the same principle to military? We have to take it, why not take an interest in it?

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHELL
B. BREITENHIRT
BOOKER
D. A. B. M. R. DOUBLES
J. J. EN
R. T. L. LISTON
R. R. CRAIG
E. NNINGHAM
F. W. MOORE
M. RICHARDS
C. WOOL
GILMER
PRICE
SUMMERS
J. M.
J. P.
A. C.

Additional reporters for this issue are: Fricker, A. F.; King, A. D.; Smith, H. H.; Davidson, R. F.; Davis, J. H.; Denny, S. H.; Manning, F. E.; Long, C. G.; Smith, W. C.; Orden, D.; Sander, C. B.; Gambic, W. W.; Bailey, J. C.; Beatty, E. A.

MATTHEWS
Business Manager
Assistant Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL
The only effect of Friday the thirteenth seen at Davidson was the recovery of two of the members of the faculty from an attack of influenza.

For the benefit of those who are perpetually asleep we can say that the Volunteer Band is not a military nor a musical organization.

It is hard to realize that Davidson has become the “Convention City of the Carolinas.”

WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
In these days when the world is clamoring for the ratifying of the League of Nations and the formation of “entangling alliances” the political principles of the father of this country seem to have become too old for modern times. More and more the 22nd of February passes practically unnoticed. It is true that his political advice cannot be applicable when the conditions of the world have so radically changed. The heritage, however, which he left can still be remembered and profitably put to use. The noble character of George Washington, his glorious example of indomitable spirit, this is his gift to future generations. Had he never been the commander-in-chief of the American forces, had he never been present in the constitutional convention, or had he never been the President of the new Republic, he would still be great. Probably his place would not be first in the light of secular history, nor would he rank foremost as a military genius, but in the hearts and minds of those who again Rumple served as a convalescent ward. Of course the fellows rooming in these places are glad to give up their rooms for the sick. Wouldn’t it be much better though if there was a nice, large, up-to-date hospital erected on the Davidson Campus. Interested.

ALL COLLEGES URGED TO REGISTER DELEGATES PROMPTLY
(Continued from page 1)
had you must act and act immediately.

Annual Conference State Volunteer Union of N. C.
Davidson College, March 12-14, 1920
Please enroll as a Delegate from
Class
Signed Declaration Card__________
Preferred Roommate
Regular or Extra Delegate
(Fill out and mail before March 1st, to Box 12, Davidson, N. C.)

GLEE CLUB PREPARING EXCELLENT PROGRAM FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING
The concert to be given by the Glee Club this spring at Junior Speaking will be one of the best which has been given in some time. The program rendered will in one respect be different from those given in the past, in that it will be entirely new; new pieces are being practiced and the management assures a splendid program. A trip of several days, possibly a week, is being planned for the early part of March. The colleges in the eastern part of the state will be the ones most probably visited.

R. R. ANNOUNCEMENT.
An announcement of interest to all prospective delegates from colleges in central North Carolina comes from the Division Passenger Agent’s office in Charlotte. It is not possible at this time to make a definite statement, but there are plans under way to provide a through car from Greensboro and return. If run, this car will leave Greensboro on No. 21 and come via Statesville, Friday, March 11, returning via Statesville and thence on No. 22 back to Greensboro on Monday, 15. Because these trains carry extra equipment.

(Continued from page 1)
the conference is over that they will then work for new volunteers and will get them. We do not want any to sign the Declaration Card under any emotional feeling whatsoever. The need for workers is so great that we cannot afford to have anyone join our ranks who is not absolutely sure of him or herself. Of course we never know what may happen to us or how God may wish to change our plans and we are ready at all times to accept His decision.

Third. About the program, The regular conference will begin on Friday evening after the trains reach Davidson College bringing most of theDelegates. If enough delegates are there, a prayer service will be held in the late afternoon. The last session will be on Sunday evening, and no one will be expected to leave until after this last night service. It is to bring the conference to a fitting close, we hope, and should therefore mean much more than the other meetings. We are going to have some of the following things: Addresses by returned missionaries, discussions of missionary activities among students, discussions or talks on the surrendered life or perhaps better the surrender of life. Probably there will be some addresses on certain phases of missionary work in certain countries. There will be held one or two separate meetings for volunteers only and volunteers will be given a chance to give reasons why they are volunteers. Opportunities will be given for students to ask questions regarding missionary work. We shall probably have addresses on themes leading to a definite decision. Very probably there will be some excellent leaders who can help us by giving ways and means to secure new volunteers.

Fourth. Some of the speakers are Miss May Fleming, Dr. J. Lovell Murray, and representatives from all the various denominational boards. Dr. Shepard, the negro missionary from Africa, has been invited to the conference for one address, but he has not yet accepted. There will also be Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. representatives.

Fifth. Above all else this conference must be one of seriousness. I mean by that, that those who come will please remember that this is a conference for work and serious thinking. If any frivolous-minded people are expecting to attend, we wish to say now that we cannot afford to have them. We want those who realize that this is a serious business and are ready to consider it as such.

As we approach the anniversary of his birth let us not think of him as a military genius or as a political leader, but consider him in the light of what he really was, in the life in which he enjoyed most, a life of loving service and endless toil for his God, his country, and his fellow men.

A SECRETARY FOR NEXT YEAR.

When we consider the great work done by Mr. Miles in his year spent at Davidson we wonder how in times previous the college has racked along without a Y. M. C. A. leader. The necessity for a secretary was first impressed on the students during the S. A. T. C., and if we can find no other good to credit to it we can not say that it was entirely useless. An experiment and a temporary arrangement was made whereby the secretary could be retained for another year. The students very generously agreed to pay a sum of three dollars per man for the support of the association, provided the balance could be raised by outside subscriptions. This arrangement was temporary and was decided upon in order that it could be successfully proved to the college authorities and the Board of Trustees that a secretary was necessary. More than one thousand dollars was contributed by a few faithful friends of the institution. Besides about five hundred dollars which has yet to be raised to cover the Y. M. C. A. budget the students contributed the balance. Although successful, the system used was in every way unsatisfactory and for various reasons can not be attempted another year. The friends of the college and the students themselves receive too many outside calls, to depend upon them to supply this need.

Our plea therefore is for a change of policy. We claim that the usefulness of a religious leader on the campus has been sufficiently demonstrated to the Board to warrant their taking over the entire salary of the secretary. The balance of the budget can be supplied by a slight increase in the blanket fee and by the receipts from the moving picture shows. Any money raised from the student body should be collected at the beginning of the term and should not have to be canvassed for by fellow students, to whom the task of collecting money is the most loathsome thing in the world. No member of the student body or the faculty would even consider our going a year without a secretary, and yet this is the thing we face unless the authorities of the college come to the rescue. We hope therefore that those who are in a position of power and influence will begin to work and plan to the end that the budget of the college for the year 1920-21 will carry the full salary of a man that is necessary to the life and welfare of the student body, a Y. M. C. A. secretary.

The Need of a Hospital.

Last fall, on Davidson College Day, it was brought clearly before our minds that Davidson was in need of many things. Some of these were, a new dormitory, laundry, swimming pool and several other buildings. Plans are now being made to meet these demands. During this period when every- date hospital. The hospital here at the comfort and convenience of the delegates in this way. Rev. Z. V. Roberson, '14, of Rockingham, N. C., has been called to the pastorate of the church at Mt. Airy. This pastorate was made vacant by the removal of Rev. T. C. Bales to Portsmouth, Va. James P. Cobb, '12, is president of the Cobb-Glass Company, brokers, Durham, N. C.

If you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco. Then you'll know what a real French briar is, sweet and mellow. Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then pick yours. WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.

Sixth. At all times the Student Volunteer Convention at Des Moines will be discussed by those who were there. If I can be of any help whatsoever to any of you, please call upon me.

Most sincerely yours,
Janie Klutz.

W. C. Bailey, ex-'11, is assistant cashier of the Bailey Bank, Clinton,