Thanks be joined in unison on this Thanksgiving Day of 1 4.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
The Livest Wire on the Hill
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y.M.C.A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS:
BAILEY, J. C.
BITZER, G. C.
COOPER, W. J.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
GAMBLE, W. A.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
SUMMERS, A. C.
WOOL, J. C.
MITCHELL, A. M.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS, Business Manager
E. A. NASH, Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY, Assistant Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG, Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL, Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Do not be one of those “grouches” who are always thinking that things here on the campus are not being run on the level. Give the other fellow credit for being as honest as yourself, and also that he has the interest and welfare of his college at heart just as much as you.

The game last week was a tough pill to swallow, but the Fates decreed that for once the Wildcats should be as tame as kittens. Our only regret is that the best team did not win. Perhaps to be good sports we should say the best team did win, but as we are the TRUTHFUL followers of Calvin we must speak the truth.

The new laundry must have entered some kind of labor union as their door sign reads open only for two hours on Saturday.

We wonder if the White Studio saleslady was a relative of Jesse James, the famous hold-up man. Judging by the cost of the pictures there must have been some connection.

Never mind last week’s defeat, Wildcats. What we want is Furman, and we are counting on you.

Only a month until Christmas, but in that time we can either make or mar our individual record for the whole term. Which shall it be?

ALL OUT FOR THE BIG SHOW!

Saturday night will mark the beginning of a new custom at Davidson College we hope when the dark-faced comedians of home training will make their initial appearance behind the footlights. That the students taking part in this show and the director behind them should be backed by our attendance is a foregone conclusion. It only remains to be seen whether the student body is appreciative of what they are trying to do. To be sure no one predicts that our novices are to be classed with the Al. G. Fields Celebrities, but we are willing to prophesy that they have a treat in store for us. It is up to the students to back this minstrel by being present as our part in putting it across. Get your ticket and come in the spirit, not to criticize, but to applaud. To make Senior Week a suitable substitute for Senior Speaking, it is necessary that every effort be made to see that nothing is left undone in making this show a great success.

LEST WE FORGET.

The day that our paper comes from the press this week is a day that is pre-eminently American. It is the time long since made the annual day for a truly thankful people to render up their heartfelt thanks to the generous Provider of this great universe. Sometimes it would seem that this great nation of ours, though blessed in so many ways with all the bountiful gifts of nature, is prone to put aside the real meaning of our national Thanksgiving Day, and turn it simply into a day of recreation, without much thought as to the more serious aspect of the occasion. This is a turning aside from the real purpose and motive with which our forefathers imbued this time, and for this reason we would urge upon the students of our college that they do not let Thanksgiving pass without at least showing in some manner that they are truly appreciative of their many blessings. No doubt the chronic pessimist can find numerous reasons for complaint, but with all the defects that may exist to mar the Utopian welfare that some desire, we firmly believe that this year especially we college men should be extremely thankful, for never before was the college student enjoying such privileges, nor did the future ever appear brighter for the educated man of a clear, world-wide vision. For this then, men, if nothing else, let our thanks be joined in unison on this Thanksgiving Day.

THE DAVIDSONIAN,

Open Forum

EXAMS AFTER CHRISTMAS.

Progressive Spirit Shown.

Gone are “Ye good old days” when we had no “prep school absence regulations.” Gone are the days when a man could be off the hill as often as he pleased on Sundays provided he had his excuse from home. But our exams that come before Christmas are still with us, with their results to haunt us when we ought to be enjoying the holidays. Fellows, the present dates for fall exams are out of date and very uncomfortable to us in that we must explain low marks in person and this is rather uncomfortable, at least more so than doing the job by correspondence. If we could have exams after Christmas, we could tackle them with our minds clear and fresh, and stand a far better chance of passing them. But as we are situated now, we grind away until about the middle of December and then expect to double our speed and pass off our exams with worn-out mental machinery. The unfairness of the present system appeals to most of us, for some men get from five to seven days more for holidays than others who certainly worked as hard and deserve as much holiday as they. Fellows, if such colleges as Agnes Scott, State Universities, etc., do this with good results, why can’t Davidson try the same plan? Let us hear a little discussion from any opposition there may be. But if there is no opposition among the students, I think we should start a petition to the “powers that be” right away so that we can have this privilege granted this year, if possible.

Esse Quam Videri.

WHAT'S MISSED IN A COLLEGE

Writing on the subject of “What a Man Loses in Going to College,” Mr. E. Davenport, in a recent number of the Saturday Evening Post, has some most illuminating things to say which the young undergraduate may well take to heart. Mr. Davenport does not gainsay the value of a college education. He admits, and urges its benefits. But, dismissing them as altogether obvious, he does point out that “this enterprise, like most adventures, is not wholly to the good, and unsuspected losses turn up even at unexpected points.” It is gratifying to findThat Mr. Davenport does not even refer in his article to the temptations besetting college youths. Doubtless he considers them, and rightfully so, as no more confined to the Sophomore than to the boy who goes to bookkeeping after high school. The principal loss in going to college to the young man, he states, is the loss of four years from the world of workaday, four years which leaves him so frequently a product who, as the business man sums it up in a phrase, “will be all right after we get some sense knocked into him.” Why is it necessary to “knock some sense” into the college graduate? Why is it, in other words, that so many of our colleges produce young men so unfamiliar with the world they are to live in, work in, fail or succeed in, that for a time at least their college training appears utterly valueless, and they must “begin at the bottom” before they can hope even to approximate the place which some comrade of high school, let us say, won two or three years ago, not long after his entry into the business world? The blame Mr. Davenport places on the college student himself, and, after a long exposition, which must be read in order to be thoroughly appreciated, of the environment and conditions of student life, he draws a bill of particulars against the undergraduate somewhat as follows: 

First, his indifference to everything outside his own personal affairs and the activities of his own college campus; his refusal to attend public lectures; his ignoring of the daily newspaper except for the sporting page, and whatever literature is not prescribed in the curriculum; in short, his absorption in the temporary world of college to the well-nigh complete exclusion of the real world he must shortly enter. 

Second, his vanity, which inspires him to affect peculiarities of dress and manner in an unconscious desire to be seen and heard, quite the opposite of the average successful man of the world who moves about his business inconspicuously. 

Third, his egotism, outgrowth of the fact that he has a fairly good stock of information on some subjects, knows nothing about others, but is absolutely convinced that his fund of information and ideas is worth all of that experience he has never had. 

Fourth, his lust for argument, a fruitless “breaking out” of his store of information which he mistakes for judgment, something he has not in the least. 

Fifth, his overuse of slang, which, according to Mr. Davenport, in the case of the student is generally a substitute for thinking. “The proposition to bet one’s life or his neck or his boots or some other valuable portion of his anatomy or personal property may be startling at the first utterance, but repeated two or three times a minute, it soon becomes stale,” remarks Mr. Davenport. “Not only that, but it kills conversation and, what is worse, it throttles thinking.” 

Now it may be a fact that there are several thousand college students in America who will condemn Mr. Davenport outright as a demagogic ass, and who, by argument or slang, will prove he is an ass to their own entire satisfaction. Doubtless, too, there are hundreds of college students who, struggling for an education against many handicaps, do not come within the category laid down by Mr. Davenport. However that may be, they may still give Mr. Davenport the courtesy of a hearing on the remedies he proposes. These are two in number—first, a frank, outspoken attitude toward the undergraduate, “to the end that he discover antidotes for his limitations, or at least ameliorate their influence by such healthy understanding of the situation as will lead him, while yet in college, to pay some decent attention to the world he is preparing to enter—to its literature, to its thinkers and to its problems;” the second, to give the young man a full year of employment between high school and college or between the Freshman and Sophomore years. 

One doubts if the second remedy can be applied with any degree of practicability. As for the first, it is up to the college man himself to adopt it, and one has enough confidence in him to believe that he will take Mr. Davenport's views, good-humored but decidedly sincere, in the spirit in which they are proffered. After all, it is the college man himself who stands to gain or lose in this matter, and some thought paid to it now is bound to benefit him immeasurably on that day when he leaves his alma mater to make or break himself in the world outside. —Atlanta Journal. 

The article, “What a Man Loses in Going to College” can be found in the XXX. 

A MATTER OF HONOR. 

In time past the point system has worked at Davidson to effect an even distribution of honors among the students. There are always outstanding students in a student body and they win more honors than others, but it has been agreed upon in the past that a Davidson student should not hold more than ten (10) points at any one time. In this system a man is on his honor not to take more offices than will give him the limit in points. There are students in the college at present who hold more than 10 points, and it seems that it should still be a question of honor. There are cases where students have held as high as 13 points during the present college term. Honor is not dead at Davidson, and we think that some gentlemen should go over their records and possibly make some changes. (Signed) X. Y. Z. 

Editor’s Note—This week finds Davidson in the midst of her annual fall festivities, not the hated and dreaded Senior Speaking of old, but something new under the sun—The Wildcat Minstrel. Fire, as students have come to call that scarce article known as the fair sex, will be in abundance on the campus, and it behooves every son of old Davidson to be on his guard against the vampish wiles so often displayed by these beautiful creatures. With this end in view we are giving some of the experiences of others as found in our exchanges. “A word to the wise is sufficient.” 

Camouflage. 

Little side-long glances, 
Little winks so quaint, 
Makes you think it’s love 
When it really ain't. 
—The Vanderbilt Hustler. 

NOBODY sees 
A big hole 
IN a little 
GIRL’S stocking, 
BUT a little 
HOLE in a big 
GIRL’S stocking 
WILL start a 
PARADE 
—Red and Black, of Ga. 

Batson—“My girl has the prettiest lips I ever saw.” 
Ezell—“I'll put mine against ’em.” 

Second Thought. 

I see her on the beach, 
Her beauty my eyesight dims. 
She surely is a peach— 
She has such pretty—arms. 
—Widow. 

Why Not? 

“You'd better lengthen those skirts, Marie.” 
“Uh?” 
“Gentlemen are apt to mistake you for a little girl and try to take you on their laps.” 
“Well?” 
—Judge. 

Gloaming—cosy parlor davenport—semi-indignant feminine voice: Now, Ray, you quit! 
Ray (magnificently)—There are no quitters at Richmond. 

Foolish. 

Excited Co-Ed—Oh, heavens! I swallowed a pin! What shall I do? 
Heartless One—Well, don't make all that fuss over a pin. Here’s another one—Penn. State Froth. 

PIPE’S the thing with men. Under the spell of WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved. The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet and mellow. It will not crack or burn through. The WDC Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any good dealer. 

WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK 
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES