THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920

Athletic News

DAVIDSON GOLF TEAM DEFEATS SALISBURY COUNTRY CLUB. Gastonia to Play Here Wednesday.

“Enthusiastic” describes well the large gallery of spectators that were out Saturday afternoon to witness Davidson’s first golf tournament with
the Salisbury Country Club. The weather was fine for golf and the course was in good shape although in places
quite damp. This did not dampen the play and interest, however, and evening. Dr. McConnell and White played an especially
good game for Davidson. The former making the nine holes in 42, closely followed by White with a score of
43. The putting of Dr. McConnell was uncanny, entirely upsetting the visitors by his play. The driving of White and
Hennesee was remarkable, their long shots often bringing applause from the gallery.

Wednesday, April 7, the Gastonia Country Club will send a team to Davidson to play the local team. Much interest
is being shown in this match and a large gallery is expected to attend. Throughout the spring different teams will
be chosen and many interesting matches are scheduled. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle officiated very ably as scorekeeper. Much credit is
due Dr. Arbuckle for his untiring efforts for the success of the Davidson Golf Club. The individual scores follow:

Salisbury: Hennesee, 51; Pickens, 55; Walker, 56; Harding, 69.
Davidson: Dr. McConnell, 42; Prof. Wood, 51; H. White, 43; A. F. Fricker, 53.

WILDCATS TO BATTLE WITH FURMAN AND STATE. The Pick of the Carolinas Will be Met This Week. Team in Good
Trim.

Much interest is being directed toward the game Thursday afternoon between the Wildcats and Furman, on the Davidson diamond. During
the past week the hitting and fielding of the locals have been even above the average. This will be the
first real inter-collegiate game on the hill and one in which a great deal of spirited rivalry is being manifested.
The Presbyterians hope to completely immerse the visiting Baptists. With either Currie or Miley on the mound, Furman must put
up a good game to uphold the record they have begun by winning from Ga. Tech in the past few
days.

N. C. State-Davidson

On next Saturday the entire student body of Davidson is planning to migrate to Charlotte to witness the game between
N. C. State and Davidson. This promises to be a hotly contested battle. North Carolina State has recently beaten Lenoir
by a wide margin and all indications are that their team is up to the standard. Comparative scores this year
seemingly have failed. Davidson’s twirlers for this game will be either Shepard or Currie and being backed by the fielding
of the two Cassells, Ratchford, McArn, Crawford, Richards, and Poe. Wrenn, the steady Red and Black receiver, will be behind
the bat.

FARMER LADS TO SHOW ABILITY Great Event Planned for Local Shoe-Slingers.

boxing or shoe pitching. He is a champion in both. John Pierpont Price is also a star in the game,
due to long practice throwing quoits on a ship’s deck en route from Hong Kong to Los Angeles. Besides the
already mentioned outstanding experts, “Silver Heels” Bradley and “Willie Bertram” Sullivan deserve honorable mention. If you are interested in a
game that is athletic, exciting, scientific, healthful, and economic, try horse-shoe pitching and enter the contest which is to be
held the Second of May.

STUDENT BODY TO VISIT CHARLOTTE SATURDAY. Davidson vs State, 3:30. Student Body vs Queens, 8:00.

Peanuts, Coca Cola, and plenty of pep will be the program at the game Saturday. Several extra coaches on the
“12:58,” will carry the four hundred odd students down to the Metropolis. The fun will begin as soon as the
peanut puller puffs out. Arriving in the city, the students collectively and individually will begin to let Charlotte know that
Davidson is present. The Band will be along to keep up the pep and liven things up generally. For further
account of “Davidson in Charlotte” see the Sunday papers.

That night after D. C. has “downed ’em” the Band and Glee Club will give a joint Concert at Queens
College. Just after the Concert, the student body of Queens will give a reception to the student body of Davidson.
This does not mean the other fellow, it means you. You are personally invited to be present and choose your
Queen. The special coming back to Jay-Bird’s-Ville will leave Charlotte at eleven o'clock. Remember this is the best opportunity to
see the best game this spring. Will you be there?

TRUSTEES PLEASED WITH R. O. T. C. Capt. Mueller Congratulated Splendid Exercises of Battalion.

The R. O. T. C. exercises, including a Battalion Review for the inspection of the Board of Trustees, were indeed
a great success. The trustees were so favorably impressed that some of them almost reached the point of proposing a
resolution that would make it essential as a four-year course for candidates for degrees. But they were very sensible about
thematter, much as they felt it would be to the advantage of the college in some ways. They passed a
resolution appointing Dr. Martin to write a letter on behalf of the Board expressing their appreciation to Capt. Mueller for
his faithful work and congratulating him on the evident success of this unit. The whole student body is to be
congratulated also on this success. These men, experienced in the life of different professions, realize the advantages of such training
which they had no opportunity to receive. The essence of all the best in the system is to be had
at the R.O.T.C. summer camp. The fellows who want to get it direct can do so during the six weeks
from June 17, to June 28.

Willamette (Salem, Ore.) — The class of '23 has presented Willamette University with a new concrete sidewalk. Boys of the
class did all the manual labor on the walk.

With the coming of spring, horseshoe pitching is the popular sport on the Hill. A large part of the fresh
class and others can be daily seen playing at the rear of Morrison Gym. J. B. Nichols and “Bugs” Robinson
ring the stake with an ease that betrays long practice in the hot July sun near the blacksmith shop of
some famous town like Derita, or Cross Hill. “John Paul Jones” McAlpine, a brilliant member of the soph class, has
issued a challenge to a round in either.

“I don’t like your heart action,” said the doctor, applying the stethoscope again. “You have had some trouble with angina
pectoris.”

“You're partly right, Doctor,” said the young man sheepishly, “only that ain’t her name.”—Ex.

Johnnie Jamison is agent and demonstrator for a new patented hair tonic.

DRINK
Mecklenburg Chero-Cola Company
ARCH. B. TAYLOR, '11, Manager

DIAMOND DUST

Only twenty men faced Shepherd in the six innings he pitched against Catawba. One visitor reached first on an error
and another reached second on a double. “Shep” struck four and walked none. Miley finished the game, allowing one hit
and fanning five. Bill’s mystery ball was again acting queer. Only three of the losers visited the bases in Saturday’s
game. One infield bingle and two doubles was the extent of their offensive. Atwell, for Catawba, doubled in the first,
but returned from the bag a nervous wreck. It’s a shame the way that Cassell, F., and Ratchford pester visitors
at the midway station. “Coach” Hengeveld’s aggregation certainly worked the squeeze play to perfection in the game. A regular path
was made from third to home via this method as soon as a Wildcat perched at the hot corner. Poe’s
clutch at the second hassock, in the eighth, after he had over-slid it, reminded the Edwards Club of a wet
man’s grasp toward a gin-rickey. Lots of ginger——? Did you notice the one run chalked up on the scoreboard in
the fifth inning? Bet the youngster would have gotten a hundred on his Roman Numbers the next day, if his
teacher saw that. Crawford had a perfect day at the bat. The Sumter lad secured a triple, a single, a
walk, and a sacrifice in four trips to the plate. Cassell, E. only gets credit for one official trip to
the bat. “Vernon” drew two passes and sacrificed once. That we need a wire protection in front of the bleachers
was proven beyond a doubt Saturday. It is very embarrassing for the students who bring members of the fair sex
to the game, to have to protect them from wild throws. “Caruso” McArn is surely singing a brilliant FIRST BASE
on the Wildcat nine. The bleachers insist that one of the Catawba substitutes played last year on the Bloomer Girl’s
team. Where was the Band?

Sunday Ban Lifted. Athletic equipment at Yale will be accessible on Sundays as well as on other days from now
on. The ban which has hitherto existed has been lifted and students are free to indulge in Sunday athletics.

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary
and at your service. He wants your business.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music
F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, April 8, 9, 10
OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
THE THREE DNOISE SISTERS
Novelty Equilibrists
BILLY DUNHAM and GRACE O'MALLEY
In “A Day at Belmont”
FRED JARVIS and FREDERICA HARRISON
In a Comedy Frivolity “Lonesome”
HARMONY TRIO (Brandt, Lyon and Barnes)
DE VITT
KELLY and QUINN
The Piano Movers and the Actress
