THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

Real Debate Staged in Eu. Society
Spence Holds Phi. Society Spellbound

Eumenean Society.
The Eumenean Society burst forth into the eighty-third year of its glory with such a program as has not been
seen in months, according to the testimony of the reviewer and several fellow members. The question: Resolved, that the R.
O. T. C. should be continued in all American colleges for the next five years, was hotly contested and vehemently
argued by both sides. The affirmative was upheld by J. C. McCaskill, Cunningham, Mahood, and Carwile. They argued that the
experience of the past war has shown that the United States needs a Reserve Officers Corps and the R. O.
T. C. is the best solution of the problem. The R. O. T. C. is both beneficial to the colleges
and to the students, as wars will continue to exist until the end of time.

The negative bravely withstood the fire of the affirmative and replied in very snappy, oratorical speeches. Cunningham argued that the
cost was too great for the benefit derived by the government. A. P. Ormand said that the time limit was
too short. J. P. Price argued that the leading educators of the country were opposed to military training in American
colleges. Doubles showed that only one officer was turned out by Davidson every year at the cost of $6,000 to
the government. Both the house and the judges were unanimous in their decision for the affirmative.

J. C. Bailey held the house spellbound by his rendition of the immortal “Thanatopsis.” C. J. Matthews delivered a timely
oration on the subject, “Is the Literary Society Worth While?” He stated that the Eu was gaining her old position
of master over the Phi and he urged everyone to wake up and get to work. Houston White concluded the
program with the famous poem of service, the “Shooting of Dan McGrew.” After a short business session in which Paul
C. Meny was taken into the society, the house adjourned.

Phi Society.
The Phi Society met in regular debate Saturday night. W. C. Smith conducted devotional exercises and corrected the minutes of
the last meeting. The query for discussion was, “Resolved, that the R. O. T. C. should be continued in American
colleges for a period of five years.” The affirmative was upheld by C. N. Morrison, S. M. Query, and J.
W. Baldwin. Those opposing said legislation were C. Hunter, R. L. McLeod, and E. N. Booker. The debate was snappy
and full of pep as a whole, but one couldn’t help but notice the timely tune of Tennysonian terms pulled
by a worthy member of the society. The rebuttals were cut down to one minute or less. The decision committee,
after careful deliberation, decided two in favor of the negative. Owing to the fact that the would-be speakers were frozen,
the extemporaneous debate was called off.

Mr. T. H. Spence, Jr., now gave the society an (eye) uplifting solo on “Napoleon’s Chandelier.” This oration was unusually
interesting, very instructive, and most amusing. There was a unanimous vote from the society in favor of some kind of
legislation. The committee of plenipotentiaries was appointed.

LIBRARY NEWS.
The phone call to obtain the views and suggestions from the students about their desires for new books was very
successful. A large number of books were suggested and a very ample order was put in by our Librarian early
in November. These books have not yet arrived, but will be here soon, according to the report, and everyone can
then find something both new and entertaining to read and something that will be of benefit to him also.

Among the Alumni on the Hill during the past week were: J. E. McQueen, ex-’20; M. R. Watt, ex-’20; A.
C. Burns, ex-’19; W. E. Wennessee, ex-’20; T. B. Mitchell, ex-’20; J. A. Shaw, ’18; F. N. McKellar, ex-’20; R.
P. Richardson, ’18; John Payne, '16; E. Flynn, '19.

T. A. Boaz, ex-’21, is studying dentistry at the Medical College of Virginia. Jimmy McQueen, ex-’20, was on the hill
Monday.

JUNIORS’ FATE SCHEDULED FOR LAST WEEK IN FEB.
Junior Speaking has been changed somewhat this year and the present plans arrange for the speaking to begin on Friday
and continue through Saturday, the 28th of February. The announcement of this date was made to the Juniors before the
Christmas holidays and several of the members of this class have availed themselves of this opportunity, as they have already
prepared those masterly orations that reveal the great quantity of knowledge gained during three years of college. Professor Currie has
announced to the class in Public Speaking that the Juniors will not be allowed to refer to their manuscripts, as
has been the custom on previous occasions. The cause of this new ruling is unknown but it is thought that
the present Senior class may take their share of the blame without fear of interview from any source. The order
of the exercises will probably be: Friday afternoon, Fri-day night, Saturday morning and Saturday afternoon, and Saturday night will be
left vacant for the Glee Club recital and fraternity reception.

NEW MEN REGISTER.

Although some of the students failed to return after the Christmas holidays as usual, yet several new faces are to
be seen on the campus. The following new men have registered for the spring term:

Armstrong, L. B., ’23, Black’s.
Cottrell, A. Y., ‘23, Town.
Howell, J. D., ’20, 21 R.
Massey, H. H., '20, 9 W.
Morris, C. A., '23, 64 C.
Mauze, E. L., '23, 14 R.
Shaw, G. A., '22, Ch.
Taylor, L. A., '22, Reed’s.
Wrenn, S. M., ’23, Town.

The Fraternities of Davidson Have Increased Their Members by the Following Men:

Beta Theta Pi—Harris, C. H.; Campbell, W. L.; Roddy, John; Fewell, Ed.; Adams, G. N.; Davidson, Robert.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Guille, W. G.; Ledbetter, D. A.; Shephard, W. S.; Farley, T. N.
Kappa Sigma—Whitner, Harry; Davis, S. M.; Dick, L. W.; Murchison, H. D.; Simmons, C. P.; Bethea, P. O.; Shaw, D.
C.; Bernhardt, R. G.
Pi Kappa Alpha—Hines, E. McK.; Carr, W. B.; Knox, W. I.; Hodgin, J. E.
Bachelor Club—Oltman, A. G.; Crawford, C. R.; Mauze, G. L.; Covington, W. E.; Woolfolk, E. T.
Kappa Alpha—Cassel, F. M.; Justus, F. M.; Adams, J. M.; King, A. D.; Henry, J. M.; Tuller, C. D.; Guthery,
P. B.; Sorrels, T. B.

We Need More Like These

DEBATING RECORD.

On Easter Monday, April 12, 1909, Davidson College held its first intercollegiate debate. This debate was held with Wake Forest,
at Greensboro, N. C., and since that time 19 other contests have been held with the leading colleges and universities
of the South. Wake Forest was met in a series of five debates, Davidson winning three and losing two, and
as a result won the handsome loving cup presented by the Winston-Salem Board of Trade and Howard E. Rondthaler. In
1910 and 1911 Wofford College was met, and by virtue of two straight victories Davidson won another cup. Series of
three debates were held with the University of S. C. and Emory University. The representatives of the Red and Black
were successful in two out of three of the contests with Emory, but lost by a similar ratio to the
other. It was the first time the latter institution had ever been defeated in a series of debates. Davidson's crowning
achievement came last year when she defeated both Washington and Lee University and Mercer University. Intercollegiate debating is assuming a
greater and greater importance among Davidson's activities, the college having made a remarkable record in this department of work. The
debaters representing the college have made an excellent reputation for their ability and power in argumentation. More popular interest is
being taken each year, and prospects are very encouraging for a future that will outshine even the good record of
the past. The record is as follows:

1909—Against Wofford, Davidson lost.
1910—Against Wake Forest, Davidson won.
1910—Against Wofford, Davidson won.
1911—Against Wake Forest, Davidson lost.
1911—Against Wofford, Davidson won.
1912—Against U. of S. C., Davidson lost.
1913—Against Wake Forest, Davidson won.
1913—Against U. of S. C., Davidson won.
1913—Against U. of S. C., Davidson lost.
1914—Against Wake Forest, Davidson won.
1915—Against Clemson, Davidson won.
1915—Against Emory, Davidson won.
1916—Against Erskine, Davidson won.
1916—Against Emory, Davidson lost.
1917—Against Roanoke, Davidson lost.
1917—Against Emory, Davidson won.
1918—Against Roanoke, Davidson won.
1918—Against Lafayette, Davidson won.
1919—Against Mercer, Davidson won.
1919—Against Washington and Lee, Davidson won.

ALUMNI NEWS.

(Continued from page 9)

He becomes impressed with the idea that his college education is deficient, that his knowledge of the ancient languages, of
metaphysics, of calculus, etc., are of no real and immediate value to him; then disappointment and discouragement will dampen his
ambition and his burden becomes twofold more onerous to bear and overcome. Be hearty in co-operation with the College. Indifference
and half-hearted co-operation is no asset but a liability. We must be earnest, sincere and whole-souled, if our co-operation is
to measure up to our hopes and ideals of a greater and better Davidson. We should always have a kind
word for our Alma Mater and speak it out boldly and fearlessly, if at times it be in the face
of fierce rivalry and competition. We are fully justified in claiming, with pride and satisfaction, the success that the Davidson
boys have accomplished. They have honored every sphere in life and are to be found around the top in every
profession. Again, send your boy to Davidson—it was good enough for you and it is good enough for him—it is
better now than ever before in its history and will be better in the future. Furthermore, I have never heard
of an Alumnus of the College express regret or disappointment at having received his diploma from Davidson, but to the
contrary, he looks upon it with a feeling of pride and satisfaction, and not only does it serve as an
emblem of his youth’s ambition realized but also, as an emblem which brings back to him recollections of his college
days which grow brighter and brighter as the years go by.

R. M. Miller, Jr., President Alumni Association.

S. A. LYNCH.

One of Davidson’s most successful and prominent alumni is S. A. Lynch. He entered here with the class of 1905
from Asheville. He stayed here only two years, but during that time he made a record in baseball that can
never be surpassed by anyone. He starred as catcher for the team and so successful was his career that he
was called “Diamond” Lynch by everyone. When he was here the baseball diamond was located at South Wing Chambers, home
plate being where the outdoor gym now stands. It was during his stay here that the present well-known art of
water throwing was invented. The boys used to sit along the wall of Chambers and watch him catch; some brilliant
fellow conceived the idea of cooling them off by throwing water from upstairs when they got too hot rooting. At
present Mr. Lynch lives in Atlanta. He is president of the S. A. Lynch Enterprises Corporation, which has its headquarters
in Atlanta, and is sole distributor of the famous Art Craft and Paramount motion pictures in 17 Southern States. He
has controlling interest in Keith’s and the Broadway in Charlotte and he also operates theatres in Atlanta, Augusta, Savannah, Asheville
and other cities. Davidson should be justly proud that she can claim such a man as Mr. Lynch as an
alumnus.

HOW MUCH A MILLION IS.

A student who entered Davidson College in the year one and spent five thousand a year would have nearly a
hundred years to go from the present date to get rid of his thousand thousand.
