On the Gridiron

And the Wildcats plucked the Gamecocks’ feathers. Once more the sub backfield turned the trick. They found little difficulty in sweeping South Carolina's ends. Too bad the student body from the Palmetto University were not present. My—how pathetic.

Features of the Game: Douglass’ spectacular runs from forward passes. McFaden’s off-tackle gains. “Jitney” Sizer’s end runs. Hammett’s great defensive work. Cassell’s broken field running. Just a word of regret and sympathy for Bethea, who dislocated his arm in the second half of the contest. “P. O.” has put up a scrapping fight in all his performances this year, and here's hoping he will soon recover. On to Winston and punch the Tar Baby.

Gaze at This.
U. of N. C. 6, Wake Forest 0.
U. of N. C. 0, Yale 21.
U. of N. C. 7, U. of S. C. 0.
U. of N. C. 3, N. C. State 13.
U. of N. C. 0, U. of Mary. 13.
U. of N. C. 0, V. M. I. 23.

Only three comparative scores with Carolina:
U. of N. C. 6, Wake Forest 0.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 7. Looks good.
U. of N. C. 3, N. C. State 13.
Davidson 0, N. C. State 23. Don’t get down in the mouth, Jonah came out O. K.
U. of N. C. 7, U. of S. C. 0.
Davidson 27, U. of S. C. 0. See, I told you so.

After a two weeks’ rest, the Varsity backfield will be back into the fray. This is the last game of the season for Shepherd, N., Poe, Moore, and Schenck. The remaining two games are under those S. I. A. A. rulings. When will we lose this jinx?

Speaking of speeding: Tulane played in Ann Arbor, Michigan on October 30, and just arrived in time, November 6, one week later, to play the U. of Fla., at Tampa, Florida.

Furman is still taking scalps. Oglethorpe went down to the tune of 43 to 0. Georgia Tech only beat Oglethorpe 55 to 0. But that’s all right, the Wildcats have the best of the argument in Wake Forest and Citadel comparative scores. Oh Boy—just wait. Remember last year. DOWN WITH CAROLINA!

DR. W. S. CURRELL SPEAKS.
(Continued from page 1)

away; those who consume the straw and leave the corn. A fourth class of readers might be added, and this is the class to which all searchers of the Scriptures should belong, namely, the gold-pan readers—those who read the Bible carefully and understandingly, who sift out the dross and the dirt, and who obtain the true gold of the Bible that will endure life's daily use. We ought to aim to get a more luminous understanding of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to come into a closer relation with Him, for our souls, just like all other instruments, are continually in need of repair, and need daily attention by Him, the Great Mechanician of souls.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

JUNIORS LEAD IN RACE.
(Continued from page 1)

Soph-Junior Game.
The proud ship of ‘23 struck her submarine last Wednesday night in trying to master the famous ‘22 quintet, by drawing the short end of a 24 to 20 score. Although going down in utter defeat, '23 played stellar ball, showing rare flashes of form in several features of the game. The Juniors on the other hand put up the usual game which is a fight to the finish. The Sophs, in the first half, seemed to be the favorites, but the Juniors staging a wonderful comeback in the second half, managed to emerge victors by four line points. The playing of Mauze, Crawford and Bostick featured for the '23 aggregation, while Captain Doubles, Ormond and Erwin put up the best showing for the Juniors. Bradley and Toney played well, while Price and Cornelson delivered the goods whenever called upon. The line-up was as follows:

Soph. Position. Junior.
Toney ---------------- Doubles (8) R. F.
Bostick --------------- Ormond, A. C. (8) L. F.
Mauze ---------------- Cornelson (4) C.
Crawford ------------- Price (2) R. G.
Bradley --------------- Erwin, L. (2) L. G.

Referee: Schenck, L. B.; timekeepers: Buie and Cunningham.

Junior-Fresh Game.
Fighting nip and tuck from start to finish, the rival clans of the Junior and Fresh classes on Monday night staged the prettiest exhibition yet witnessed in the inter-class basketball series. It was a real basketball game and the play was fast and furious throughout. At one time the three-year-olds would have the advantage and then their younger opponents would take the lead. Up until the last few seconds of play the decision was in doubt and both sides put forth every effort to grab the bacon before the final whistle. It seemed a certainty that a time extension would have to be made to play off the tie, but in the last second...or so of play, Ormond succeeded in caging the elusive sphere, and thereby caged the game. All the other victims of the triumphal march of '22’s quint to the championship were on hand to cheer the Fresh to victory, but in vain. The Juniors took the lead at the start and held it for the major portion of the first half, but then the Fresh came from behind and with a mighty rush left their opponents in the wake. At the end of the half, things looked black for the upperclassmen as the score stood at 16-11 against them. The Fresh took the lead by the caging of a foul goal by McConnell, and then, aided by this incentive, opened a whirlwind offensive which netted them three goals in quick succession. During the initial frame, the Fresh outplayed their older rivals in every stage of the play. Their passing was better and their guarding was well-nigh impregnable. Captain McConnell’s shooting and general fast work was the feature of the half in the way of individual playing. 

In the second session, the Juniors came back strong and could not be denied despite the strenuous efforts of the Fresh to stem the tide. They gradually evened the score and then took the lead, never to be headed. Their general playing was much better, and though the Fresh put up a game fight, they had done their best. By desperate playing, they did even the score and threatened to win up to the very last. The whole Junior team played better, but the work of Doubles and Ormond, with three and two field goals respectively, stood out a little beyond the work of their teammates. When Referee Roberts blew the final whistle, the score registered a 25-23 victory for the Juniors. 

The line-up:
Juniors (25) Position Fresh (23)
Doubles (10) ----------- Pitts (6)
Ormond (7) ----------- Palmer (4)
Forwards
Cornelson (6) ----------- McConnell (1)
Center
Erwin (2) ----------- McDonald (2)
Freeman ----------- McPherson
Guards
Substitution: McBride for McPherson; scorer: Aiken, R. C.

OFFICER OF THE DAY NOW ON DUTY
New Feature of R. O. T. C. Work Initiated at Davidson—Honor Men for October Selected.

An officer of the day will be seen in our midst soon. Every officer of the battalion, with the exception of those in the band, will be detailed for this duty. There are about thirty of these officers and thus each one will come on once a month. The duties of this officer will be to report all violations of uniform regulations and to see that the headquarters’ flags are out and the regular flag is put up by the flag sergeants detailed for this purpose. He is required to wear his regular uniform and will probably have some kind of a distinctive badge. The officer of the day will not be excused from classes but is on duty the whole day. If anyone does not salute the flag at the proper time, the officer of the day will report him. His duties are not very varied and it is mostly a military form.

Every month the best man of each rank in the R. O. T. C. organization has five points added to his monthly theoretical grade. The men for the month of October are:
Captain Mitchell, A. M.
First Lieutenant Dick, L. W.
Sergeant Major Cooper, W. J.
First Sergeant Odgen, D. H., Co. A.
First Sergeant Davidson, R. F., Co. B.
Sergeant Smith, H. H., Co. C.
Sergeant Morton, F. P., Co. D.
Corporal Kimsey, W. P., Co. A.
Corporal Woolfork, E. T., Co. B.
Corporal Lewis, H. E., Co. C.
Corporal Guthrie, P. B., Co. D.
Private Luckie, K. E., Co. A.
Private Carothers, C. P., Co. B.
Private Long, R. P., Co. C.
Private Price, Paul, Co. D.

No, Please Don’t.
“Don’t worry yourself about your good looks, Mr. Kiser.”

For Rent.
Perfectly useless P. O. Box. Martin Fail. Apply

We wonder if the cotton we see these days calls up any association to the upper-classmen.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Athletes know our place for the best grade of goods and reasonable prices. We sell and satisfy, and that is why we grow.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Nov. 11, 12, and 13
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Care
ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
ARTHUR HILL AND MARIE QUINNELL
In “A Variety of Laughs, Steps and Tricks”
FRANK MARKLEY
Banjoist
THE DARKTOWN FIRE BRIGADE
In “Fighting Flames”
ANN BUTLER AND HAL PARKER
In a Unique Skit “DON’T MAKE ME LAUGH”
PERRIE DE KOCK TRIO
Head and Hand Balancing and Tumbling