THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1920.

GOVERNOR GLENN NOTED STATESMAN—GAVE A LIFE OF UNSELFISH SERVICE TO HIS COUNTRY AND FELLOW MAN.

Stands Among Davidson's Most Honored Alumni.

R. B. Glenn was born in Rockingham County, August 11th, 1854, and lived on a farm until 23 years of
age. His parents were Chalmers L. and Annie Dodge Glenn—his father was a lineal descendant of Dr. Chalmers of Scotland,
and his mother a great-niece of Washington Irving. He received his college education at Davidson College, being in the class
of '67. Later he went to the University of Virginia and took some special work there, and read law under
Chief Justice Richmond Pearson. He entered politics early in life, making his first speech when only twenty years of age.
He married Miss Nina Deaderick of Knoxville, Tenn., in 1878.

In 1880 he was elected to the legislature from Stokes County; and from Cleveland in 1884 and 1892. He was
solicitor for the Ninth Judicial District in 1886; was U.S. District Attorney from 1893-1897; was State Senator from Forsyth County
in 1899, and was elected Governor of North Carolina in 1904, and served until 1909. Four things during his administration
actively engaged his attention: First, the settlement of the state debt to the satisfaction of creditors and the honor of
the state; second, putting all eleemosynary institutions in first-class condition; third, enforcing the passenger rate law and upholding the doctrine
that both corporations and individuals must obey the law; fourth, the establishment of state-wide prohibition in North Carolina.

After he left the executive mansion, he began to practice law with the firm of Glenn, Manly, and Hendren of
Winston-Salem. He always enjoyed a large practice and was noted especially for his power before the jury. He was a
forceful, earnest speaker, believing that the handling of facts well told is more convincing than mere eloquence. While a student
at Davidson College he won several medals in the literary society for his wonderful gift as a speaker. Death came
last Spring while on a trip to Canada as a member of a boundary commission for the U.S. Government.

In a memorial service held by the Forsyth County Bar Association, the following excerpt from the resolutions adopted:

"The devotion that attaches to a life dedicated from early manhood to the noble purpose that belongs to the high
ideals of the honorable calling he elected to pursue. He loved his profession with a devotion that was akin to
the love he had for home, his native state, and his country. He kept, with fidelity, the oath and covenant
that he entered into with his Mother State when he first assumed the robes of a priest in her temple
of Justice, by giving, absolutely giving, his life to the exacting duties of a toilsome and strenuous compliance with the
requirements of that gift. According to the writers of the ancient law, there is but one word which of itself
implies a covenant whenever and wherever used in a conveyance of an estate, and that is the verb 'to give.'

"Day upon day, and year upon year as he went to his work, with joy and eagerness, to be sure,
we saw him giving his superb physical, mental, and moral strength towards the keeping of his covenant as a lawyer,
and after he retired from the practice, giving its residue on behalf of the state and nation in their striving
for civic righteousness and good government. No son of the state, of his day and generation, gave more of himself
for the upbuilding and conservation of its best interests. We had an ideal of usefulness that he constantly kept in
view like a sailor ever watching and never losing sight of the Polar star, and still like another sailor, he
lived long enough through the storms of the seas to greet the outstanding ideal with gladness and satisfaction.

"His voice that once blended in harmony with the best forces of human life is now still, and the hand
that we erstwhile grasped with fondness and admiration is now vanished. The mortal Robert Broadnax Glenn has put on the
immortal Robert Broadnax Glenn. Peace to his ashes that were once instinct with a noble spirit that has gone to
a realm of eternal existence. The sacrificed life is the supreme life."will give briefly an estimate as given by his
associates, it follows: “Before being called by the more than 2,000,000 (two million) people of North Carolina, to be their
Chief Executive, Robert Broadnaux Glenn had achieved the distinction of being one of the ablest lawyers in his native state,
and he had been for more than 30 years one of the most prominent and distinguished members of the Forsyth
County Bar. This career as a member of the legal profession was characterized by life.” There is no other institution
or other loyal alumnus, Robert Broadnaux Glenn, than Davidson College and it is the must records and traditions that such
men as these set, that makes Davidson the noble and honored institution she is.

ALUMNI NEWS.

“Lump” Richardson, ‘18, is now manager of Vicks Chemical Co., in Greensboro, N.C.

J. R. McAlpine, ex-'13, is now located at Hartsville, S.C., and is this fall giving up his business as a
merchant, so as to give his entire time to cotton buying in Hartsville.

G. N. McMillan, ex-'18, has recently begun the practice of law in Clarksville, Ga.

Prof. Zeb. N. Holler, '06, who previous to his entering the service was professor of mathematics at the Oklahoma Agricultural
College, is now a member of the faculty at the Georgia School of Technology.

President R. K. Timmons, ‘04, of Stillman Institute, Tuscaloosa, Ala., has resigned that work to go to Arkansas College at
Batesville, Ark.

F. W. Price, ’15, who is taking his Theological work at Yale, will after this year have the oversight of
the welfare of Chinese students at Yale and other Eastern institutions. To his work he has been appointed by the
Committee of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church; and his salary will be paid by the Church at Harrisburg,
Va.

Rev. J. Edwin Purcell has resigned the pastorate of Purity Presbyterian Church, Chester, S.C., to become pastor of St. Andrew's
Presbyterian Church at Wilmington, N.C.

Rev. A. N. Perryman, ‘18, of Keyser, W.Va., has been called to the City Mission work of the First Presbyterian
Church of Lynchburg.

Rev. W. I. Gibbs, ex-'11, has removed from Rocky Mt., N.C. to Wyliesburg, Va.

Rev. Chas. L. Crane, ‘07, of Muliato, Africa, is expected to arrive at Hickory, N.C. at an early date, on
his furlough.

Rev. J. L. Meacham, ‘08, of Moultrie, Ga., has been called to the pastorate of the Second Presbyterian Church of
Birmingham, Ala.

Rev. M. L. Knox, ex-'11, of Idabel, Oklahoma has just returned to his work after a vacation of six weeks
and accompanied by his bride.

Rev. F. L. A. Barnes, ‘95, and son of Mrs. N. Barnes, of Davidson, was Moderator of the September meeting
of Roanoke Presbytery.

Rev. O. M. Anderson, ‘08, of New Monmouth Church in Virginia and Rev. J. O. Parker, ‘08, of Collierstown, Va.,
classmates and friends at Davidson, have each conducted revival services for the other during the latter part of the summer.

Rev. W. L. Mann, ‘11, is pastor of the Moore Memorial Church in Atlanta. On the returning of Mr. and
Mrs. Mann from their vacation in September, a delightful home welcome reception was given them by the congregation.

“Hutch” McKay, ex-'11, was on the Hill for a few hours last week on his way to Johns Hopkins, where
he is studying medicine.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3186
221 W. Trade St.

FALL AND WINTER SPORTS CATALOG
The Macamac Company Agents

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry
BEST OLDEST LARGEST
The Macamac Company, Agency

POWER HOUSE
If You Make the Team
This is where you get your Uniforms, Shoes, Stockings, Nose Guards, and all Football Equipment. We can fit the entire
team.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Company
18 East Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N.C.

This space reserved for The W. P. Mertens Co.
Charlottesville, Va.
