THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920. P 67-7

Obvious.
The printers must like our dope—they use so much of it twice.

A Good Eye.
Wildman, we understand, is taking a course in co-ed instruction. We feel it our duty to congratulate him on the
excellence of his choice for his life’s work.

Fact.
The ‘watch your step’ sign in street cars is usually translated ‘watch her step.’

So They Did.
The cops at Winston seemed to labor under the impression that everybody in the grandstand carried a pocket X-ray. But
even if the cops didn’t do any good they did look awful handsome and imposing out there in their new
blue uniforms.

Fresh Davis (“Nappy”)—“Hey, Delorme, where’s Heinie Brown?”
“Doc” Delorme—“Working for Hadley Hill.”
“Nappy”—“What's he doing?”
“Doc”—“Oh, Hadley’s setting out shade trees and Heinie’s sitting under 'em.”

Poor Jim.
Jim Boulware, they say, can’t distinguish between a naughty picture and a work of art.

At the Game.
The age of miracles is not over. We have not heard of the lame walking or the dead being raised
again, but we do know that at least one man had his eyes opened when “Gig” Shepherd crossed the line.
Another man who had been indulging in vociferous exclamations was observed to go completely dumb at the same moment.

We Agree.
Once upon a time there was a freshman who didn’t think he knew as much as a senior. Luke McLuke
would call this “another damli.”

Cassell joined the salesmen’s club. We are told he wanted his picture in the annual.

Dust ‘Em Off, Reddy.
Jim Boulware—“Roddy you're the next officer of the day; you go on duty at 5 p.m.”
W. L. Roddy—“5 p.m—I'll not get up at 5 p.m. in the morning for anybody.”
Jim Boulware and bystanders indulge in a large quantity of laughter.
W. L. Roddy (with blushes)—“Oh! you mean 5 p.m. in the evening?”

Horsed.
Alex Mitchell was describing the location of his paternal abode. “I live on the edge of town,” said Alex. “The
nearest house on one side is a quarter of a mile away, and on the other side there are no
houses for three hundred yards.”
Fresh—“You don’t live on the edge of town, you live in the country.”

Herr Von Simplewits.
Fresh Minter—“Can you work Calculus?”
Fresh Ives—“I don’t know—I never tried.”

Erratum.
The magazine management has asked us to announce that Fresh Walthall’s poem, “To A Little Fairy,” was printed in the
serious part of the magazine by error. It was meant for a joke—Walthall really hasn't any fairy in his heart.

What Shall We Call it?
Dear Paw:
Your letter has come. Your munificent gift of fifty cents was liked. I have just scads of coin yet, paw.
I went to Winston on part of it to see Carolina get spanked as per the Davidson menu. Oh, paw,
but they was a sore bunch. Yes, paw, they just hopped a horse they couldn't ride. It was great, paw.
And, I got something to tell you, paw, when I get home. And, paw, I passed a quiz day before
last Friday. Yes, paw, I’m getting a lot of sensuous stuff up here—don’t you examine how much more composed I
write a letter, paw? Write me again, paw, next time you get a package wrapped in white paper. Your young
hayseed, (a Fresh.)

Trials and Tribulations.
By G. M. L.
The fresh went home, all bloated with pride,
His head full of knowledge, his girl by his side.
When taking his leave from a lover so bold,
The fresh looked up—a Soph to behold.
“A little form,” the Soph says he,
And played on the fresh with friendly glee.
Home went the fresh all bruised in part,
To sleep off the sorrow of his broken heart.

Yep.
Pebble Stone was at the game in Winston. He is just as hard a rock as ever.

Soph Hunter—“Wonder if Coach will play the men disqualified by the S. I. A. A. in the Scrub game.”
Fresh Costen—“What is that, one of the frats here on the hill?”

DR. METCALF HEARD.
(Continued from page 1)
are the sources from which we may draw conclusions concerning many of the problems that confront us in our daily
life.

Monday Afternoon.
Dr. John Calvin Metcalf gave a very instructive lecture to the class in English Four last Monday afternoon in Shearer
Hall. His topic was “Literature and Biography,” and the treatment of this subject was divided into the study of biographies
in general and the most famous biographies in particular. He began his remarks by quoting Emerson, that every great institution
is “the lengthened shadow of a great man.” So it is with biography. The methods of study and the various
methods used by the biographers were brought out in some detail and then the greatest biographies were mentioned with appropriate
remarks for each. One of the most human as well as most ancient examples of this art is the story
of Joseph and his brethren in the Old Testament. Next in point of time and interest comes Plutarch’s Lives, which
humanize the many lives of great men in such a vivid fashion. The first modern and typically modern is Boswell’s
life of Johnson. This, according to Dr. Metcalf, is the greatest achievement in the field of biography in that it
gives us the complete man with all of the little arguments and conversations of human interest. Dr. Metcalf suggested that
all should read Trevelyan’s Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay and especially learn to cultivate that most useful practice of
reading by paragraphs instead of sentences, as Macaulay is said to have done.I | Sir Walter Scott were dwelt on
at length. And, paw, I got grub at a scrumptious hotel. They sure had some style, paw. The little run-around-niggers
wus I reckon, paw that that’s the whyfore they call it the Ding- with a mention of the interesting biography,
“Life and Letters of Sir Walter Scott,” by A. G. Lockhart. A few supplementary remarks were thrown in incidental to
Dr. Metcalf's visit to Abbotsford. Many other biographies were mentioned, such as the “Life and Letters of Louis Agassi,” “Life
of Artemus Ward,” “Life of Francis Parkman,” and the “Life of Nathaniel Hawthorne.” After a few explanatory remarks on these
biographies, the lecture came to a close.

Monday Night.

“Americanism in Literature” was the subject which Dr. John Calvin Metcalf chose for his address in Shearer Hall last Monday
night. A very appreciative audience was present, with the townspeople making up a large percentage of those present. Dr. Metcalf
began his address by quoting Brander Matthews, who, 20 years ago, tried to prove that we had a very limited
number of real Americanisms. “An Englishman,” says Dr. Metcalf, “Sidney Smith, ironically asked the question in 1820: ‘Who reads an
American book?’” He was answered in the same year when Washington Irving gave us his “Rip Van Winkle” and Joseph
Jefferson became the inimitable actor of this sketch on the stage. Close on the heels of Rip Van Winkle came
Cooper's Leather Stocking Tales, which were read by everyone. Since then many books of the “open woods” stand out, such
as Parkman’s Oregon Trail, and various books by Sims. Then came Walt Whitman sounding the clarion notes of Americanism and
bringing forth the plaudits of Europe. With his all comprehensive view he described the “vastness of a great continent.” Colleagues
in Whitman's wildness of the woods we find Bryant's “Forest Worship;” Lanier’s “Marshes of Glynn.” Thoreau, who chose life and
not books for the source of his writings, “sucked to the marrow the essentials of life” when he lived on
Walden Pond.

Following the Civil War (as after every war) we experienced a literary renaissance. Then it was that the short story
became localized and the many types of our incongruous inhabitants made the themes for stories. Bret Harte gives us the
forty-niner going west for the golden fleece in his “Luck of Roaring Camp.” Harriet Beecher Stowe moralized with the negro,
and Joel Chandler Harris gave us the real negro of the South. Then came the new comic spirit ushered in
by Mark Twain. Dr. Metcalf is inclined to believe him more as a satirist and philosopher than a humorist. He
believes Mark Twain truly American, as he so aptly put it, in “appearance, defects, conceit, candor, sympathy, democratic spirit, and
irreverence.” Again we find the great outdoors as pictured by Owen Wister and his contemporaries. Now the great change has
come over our literary horizon. The city is the scene, yes, even an apartment house. Take the short stories of
O. Henry for example. Again look at what is now the distinctly American type, the novel. Ernest Poole and William
Dean Howells are the immediate vogue, but will not, in Professor Metcalf’s opinion, be permanent. The Drama of Ideas has
not come but in this field of literary endeavor Dr. Metcalf believes the greatest achievements of the future shall come.

THE TRIP TO WINSTON.
(Continued from page 1)

The long line swung through the streets celebrating the victory. And about 8:00 o'clock it headed for the station, where
the train was waiting to bring the victorious Wildcats back to camp.

DR. MARTIN ATTENDS SYNOD OF FLORIDA

Dr. Martin attended the sessions of the Synod of Florida, meeting at DeFuniak Springs, last week from Thursday till Saturday.
The Synod seemed glad to hear of the work of Davidson and will include her among the institutions of the
Church funds for which a campaign is to begin in the Florida Synod as soon as it can procure the
services of Dr. Melvin. He very ably conducted last year’s campaign for one million dollars for the educational institutions of
the Church in the Synod of North Carolina. While away, Dr. Martin assisted in the dedication of the new McIlwaine
building of Palmer College, Florida. Palmer College is represented at Davidson this year by W. H. Sharpe, of the Sophomore
class. She has been represented here in the past by such men as Harold McCaskill, catcher on the baseball team;
“Muck” Currie and his brother, “Locke” Currie, who entered the S. A. T. C. in 1918 only to become Davidson’s
one student victim of the flu.

OLD SUIT

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Have that SUIT or HAT DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK
STICK and STAY STUCK
“If you want it off, do not put it on”
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats—anything made of rubber.
Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package
by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.
Wholesale Accessories

Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent
