» The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
J. E. CASSELL

Managing Editor
J. M. RICHARDS

Assistant Managing Editor
M. R. DOUBLES

Assignment Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS

Athletic Editor
M. DUNLAP

Campus Editor
B. W. ROBERTS

Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL

Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.

Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE

Official Photographer
CLUB McKEITHAN

REPORTERS:
J. H. OGDEN, D. H. ORMAND, A. C. SUMMERS, A. C. WOOL, J. C. BAILEY, J. C. GAMBLE, W. A. BITZER, R. LONG, C. G. COOPER, W. J. MAHOOD, D. L. MAUZE, G. W. CUNNINGHAM, C. E. MITCHELL, A. M. DAVIDSON, R. F. PHILLIPS, J. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN, Business Manager
E. A. NASH, Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY, Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We are inclined to take an optimistic view of the N.C. State game last Saturday, for it could have been much worse considering that our opponents have about the best eleven in the South. Our team fought wonderfully, so what more could we ask.

A little humor every now and then will not hurt the best and most serious of us. Don’t fail to cultivate your sense of humor then, or else you might awake to find yourself a grouch.

Our advice to those students who find so much pleasure in shooting firearms on the campus is that they seek another clime, if they cannot enjoy life without this annoying practice. Their presence no doubt would be more desirable in the land of the Bolshevists.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Open Forum

WHAT WILL DAVIDSON DO?
Shall It Be Davidson in China?

On last Sunday the student body had the rare privilege of hearing about the educational needs of China from one who knows the facts. Mr. J. M. Wilson presented to the student body an opportunity for practical service. He said that Hangchow Christian College needed three teachers, and the question arises, “What will Davidson do?” Mr. Parker represents “Davidson in Korea;” who will represent “Davidson in China?” That is, are we men of Davidson ready to grasp this opportunity of “sowing bountifully,” that in the future our fellow-men may “reap bountifully” of the benefits derived from the Christian Davidson Spirit here on the campus? We have a man in Korea; are we willing to stop there? Instead, don’t you think that we are ready to take up this extra service by supporting one of our Davidson men at Hangchow, too? Let us think this over. And by next year have not only “Davidson in America” and “Davidson in Korea,” but also “Davidson in China.”

“Daworo.”

TO THE CLASS OF '24.

The incoming Freshman class has proved itself, in one respect at least, a record-breaker, namely, in numbers. However, they have started a custom which is casting reflection upon themselves, and will, in time, if allowed to continue, injure the student body. This delinquency is the practice of piling out of church on Sunday mornings through Dr. Richards’ study and jumping out of the windows on the Concord avenue side. This not only looks bad, but it shows a lack of proper reverence for the House of God, and no student of Davidson College who calls himself a Christian and a gentleman should be found guilty. The men who rush out in this fashion probably do it through thoughtlessness or carelessness, but other people are looking at the matter from a different viewpoint, and their opinions are not entirely favorable.

Men, let's destroy this reproachful custom at once. Restrain yourselves for two or three minutes after the service, and leave the church in a manner befitting a gentleman and a student of Davidson College.

Observer.

PATIENCE, MEN, PATIENCE!

The new laundry has now gotten into operation, but is handicapped by lack of an experienced force. The man in charge has a green force on his hands, and it is only to be expected that things are not running as smoothly now as they will when the employees learn how to manipulate the machinery, etc. From all reports the students are failing to take cognizance of this fact and are complaining about the manner in which their laundry is being handled. No doubt affairs are in a kind of bungled state, although it is our opinion that we would rather have our clothes misplaced on the campus than to have them stolen by the washerwomen on the other side of the railroad as formerly. You may rest assured that the college is not going to allow the students to suffer any losses on its account, and everything will be done to see that efficient service is rendered at the quickest possible moment. Remember, however, that it will take a little time to accomplish this end, so why not co-operate with those in charge by being patient with them.

YOUR SUPPORT IS NEEDED.

In the heart of every true Davidson student there is cherished a great love for his college. In the course of time, if this is what it should be, the natural result is that there must be an expression of this love. Even a casual observer will readily see that it is the manifestation of this affection and loyalty that gives the vigorous life and action so characteristic of all the organizations of this campus, thereby making them the most important factors in the splendid student life of this institution. To the real students of Davidson then who have the good of their school at heart, The Davidsonian is making a call for their services. Our publication at the beginning of this session sees plainly the need of more and better reporters if our paper is to develop as it should, and to whom else can it turn than to the men of the present student body. The success of The Davidsonian in a large measure will depend on an efficient reportorial staff, and to secure this end the zeal, ability, and earnestness of new men must be injected into this department of our organization. In about three weeks a new Reporters’ Club is to be chosen, the selections to be made from the men who have attaineda certain efficiency in their work in covering news articles assigned them. Sermons, lectures, and writings in America as well as throughout the British Empire—The Trinity Chronicle. However, only the upperclassmen are chosen at this time, as the Freshmen are not eligible until next spring. In March of the coming year from this Club is to come the new staff, and in due time the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager. From this, it is to be seen that the Reporters’ Club is a stepping-stone to the highest offices connected with The Davidsonian. In addition to this, the members of the reporting department will receive an extra subscription free of charge as well as be the recipients of other things in recognition of their services. Thus, though the work is hard, yet it is not only worthwhile, but it offers an excellent opportunity to be of some service to old Davidson. It is not the desire of the Staff to have a one or two-man publication, but one in which every student has a part. Each man can do something, and the best way to do that something is to act as a reporter. This year the college is facing a successful session and it is imperative that a live paper keep it company. The Staff has set the goal, ‘The Best College Weekly in America,” but to accomplish this the cooperation of the entire student body is needed. The call is made that you back us to the best of your ability, and as Davidson students, the Staff is confident that the call will not be in vain.

The engagement of Orin Conway Williamson, ’18, to Miss Lois Faires, of Mecklenburg County, has been announced. Both are under appointment as missionaries to Mexico. Miss Faires will graduate this year from the Presbyterian Hospital School of New York, and Mr. Williamson will complete his course at Union Seminary next May. “Squire” Wilson, '20, breezed up from Gastonia for a few hours on Friday. “Squire” is selling automobiles—or rather Chevrolets these days.

OCTOBER 1, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

Looking Backward

W. and L. Bests D. C.

Davidson opened its football season in Lexington, Va., Saturday, September 25, holding the strong Blue and White aggregation to a 14-0 score. For Davidson, the work of Walker, Laird, and Black in the backfield, and White, Younger, and Walker, R., in the line was exceptional. The whole team fought during the entire period with the old-time Davidson “pep” and showed no intimation at any time of letting up in the struggle.

(Continued from page 3)

paper to the present five-column ten-page edition of this year. “Jap” Cumming unearthed some very interesting facts about The Magazine. Dr. J. L. Douglas founded our present magazine in 1887. The first issues were produced four times yearly and were under the supervision of the Literary Societies. The magazine has shown many developments and this year Davidson shall see a magazine the size of “Life.” The first issue of The Davidsonian was criticized from a journalistic point of view and then an open discussion was carried on by other members. The last topic was “Journalistic History,” discussed by D. L. Mahood. It was very interesting to learn that “verbal newspapers” were the first news mediums. Men would sit on the street corners and tell the news to the passersby for a small consideration. The first newspapers were merely matter of record. There was no hurry about news, for instance, the Declaration of Independence was not published until more than a week after the signing. The vast industry of news was enlarged upon and the propensities of Journalism were related. After the program, a very delightful feed was participated in.

Davidson at Conference.

Twenty-seven men represented Davidson at the State Student Y. M. C. A. conference at Guilford College. Davidson won in a basketball game with Wake Forest. Trinity was also defeated by a 26-12 score. Davidson’s line-up was as follows: Forwards, Carson and Hoyt (captain); guards, Reese and Patton; center, Dumas; subs, McAskill and Somerville. T. J. Mitchell and M. S. Kennedy won the tennis match from Wake Forest.

Literary Societies.

The Eumenean Society began the year with a total membership of 84, the Phis with 95. Of the Eus, 31 were new members and of the Phis, 41 were new members.

LITERARY SOCIETIES.

TRINITY BEGINS NEW YEAR WITH RAISING OF FLAG

It is the duty of every student entering A. and M. College to become a member of one of the literary societies. First, it is your duty to yourself to get that in college which will best prepare you for your work when you are out in the world; and second, it is your duty to the college to help put the work up to the top notch. Every man that enters A. and M. wants to see the best football team that is possible for our coaches to make. That is good, and is the proper college spirit, but do you ever stop to think that our own college is judged to a certain extent by the class of literary societies that we have? Every man can help to make this the best year that we have ever had not only on the athletic fields but also in academic and literary society work.

FRATERNITIES INITIATE NEW MEN

700 Students Enrolled.

The 1920-21 session of Trinity College opened on last Wednesday morning, September 12, with the raising of the flag by the class of ’21. The exercises were little different from those customarily held at the opening of college other than that there were a greater number of new students present than ever before in the history of the college. With fifteen rahs for ’21 the flag rose to the top of the flagpole and was caught up by the breeze, bearing to all the message that old Trinity was again ready for business after a summer of rest.—The Trinity Chronicle.

The many friends of Miss Gordon Baskerville will be interested to know that she has completed the training as a Y. W. C. A. worker, and is now located in Greenville, S. C.

The following men in accordance with the faculty regulations were recently initiated into the following fraternities:

Kappa Sigma—John Schenck.
Bachelor’s Club—Norman Shepperd, David W. Roberts, Houston White.
Beta Theta Pi—Orin S. (pledged.)

The more you send to the laundry the more you lose.

The Bank of Davidson

Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes for Rent

Capt. G. T. Hearn, U.S. A. head of the military department, was confined to his room several days last week by a severe cold.

Your business is Solicited

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. H. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V.-Pres., A. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

Mrs. J. S. Worth and daughters have left to spend the winter in Washington, D.C.

Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band, and bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order—that’s what we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer.

W.DEMUTH & CO. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES