THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1920.

THIRTY-ONE DAVIDSON ALUMNI AT UNION SEMINARY

Interesting News Received From Our Representative in Richmond

Union Seminary will close its session for the year in the final commencement exercises on May 12. Davidson has been represented this past year at Union as follows, according to classes:

Fellow—James E. Cousar, '14

Seniors—L. H. Eikel, '17; J. K. Hobson, '17; J. L. McBride, ex-'18; H. S. Morgan, '17; R. H. Ratchford, '17; Walter G. Somerville, ex-'16.

Middlers—W. L. Baker; Geo. L. Cooper, ex-'17; Wm. C. Cumming, '18; Jamie Fowle, '18; Wm. C. Frierson, '18; W. B. Knox, ex-'18; Edward C. Murray, Jr., '14; James G. Patton, Jr., '16; O. C. Williamson, '18.

Juniors—T. R. Alexander, '19; Geo. Bellingrath, '18; E. G. Clary, '16; Wm. C. Copeland, '16; R. W. Cousar, '18; A. R. Craig, '17; W. M. Currie, '19; N. P. Farrior, '16; John K. Fleming, ex-'20; H. B. Fraser, ex-'18; E. H. Hamilton, '17; J. W. Mann, '17; Shelby T. McCloy, '18; John M. McBryde, '16; Charlie Worth, '20.

In total, 31.

In athletics, Union has taken interest this past year in football, basketball, tennis, and baseball; baseball being stressed somewhat more than the others. It might be of interest to mention that the infield and the outfield of the baseball team this spring were composed of D. C. men, only the batteries being from other colleges. Charlie Worth has been elected manager, and “Bill” Currie captain, of the baseball team for 1920-21. A. R. Craig, who played a fine game at guard during the past basketball season, has been elected manager and captain of the basketball team for the coming year.

Several other Davidson men have recently been selected by their fellow-students for high offices for the next year. Edward C. Murray, Jr., has been elected president of the Student Body for 1920-21. George L. Cooper has been elected president of the rising Senior Class. Jamie Fowle has been elected president of the Society of Missionary Inquiry, and Wm. C. Cumming, president of the Volunteer Band, for 1920-21. O. C. Williamson and J. M. McBride have been presidents of the Middle and Junior classes, respectively, for this past year.

O. C. Williamson, '18, at the recent Volunteer Council at Yonkers, N. Y., was elected a member of the Executive Committee of the Student Volunteer Movement. On this Committee Mr. Williamson represents Davidson and Union. As there are only two delegates from the South on this Committee, his election to it is quite an honor.

Two D. C. men who will leave Union this May expect to sail in the near future for the foreign mission field, J. K. Hobson for Africa and J. E. Cousar for Japan.

Almost half of Union’s students for the past year have been Davidson men. The Davidson student entering Union feels from the outset very much at home among so many old D. C. men and in the same old Davidson atmosphere he has grown to love. It is often said that Union is “a second Davidson,” and it is quite so. The D. C. men who expect to enter Union on October 6, may look forward to three years of pleasantness and delight in a place where the same old Davidson spirit holds sway.

(Special to the Davidsonian)

Baltimore, Md., April 29.—There are five men at Johns Hopkins Medical School who are distinguished for having attended Davidson.

First, Archie Mutt McKeithen, '16, a Rumplite, who pursued a normal course at Davidson and made a rapid recovery. He is now one of the highlights of the graduating class at Hopkins. He will spend this summer with Coach Fetzer in camp, and will intern next year at the Union Protestant Infirmary, Baltimore, Md.

Second, William Holister, '16, alias “Bull,” an appellation of uncertain but suggestive origin. This gentleman was of Chambers fame. He inserted one year of army life into his medical course, so is at present facing the horrible array of examinations that mark the end of the third year and the crisis of the Hopkins medical course.

Third, Dave V. Hudson, for whom a famous nether garment has been named. During his years of residence at Davidson, this gentleman left his impress upon the town, Hell Alley, and Chinatown (then third floor Rumple west). He was the founder of the Eesculapian Club, and graduated with the reputation of having accomplished more practical jokes than anyone of hisgeneration. I dare mention none more remarkable than his going to Chapel in his pajamas for eighty-five cents. He spent two years teaching in China, and entered Hopkins last Fall. Fourth, Bob McKay, “Butch” ex-17, who went from Davidson to the University of Virginia, then to war, is now in the first-year class at Hopkins, and so is still innocent and enthusiastic. Honorable mention should be made of George Wilkinson, the elder “Chink,” Davidson '12, Hopkins ’16, now intern at Bay View Hospital, Baltimore, and who next year will begin general practice at Greenville. Ralph Dunn, '15, who made Camden famous, finished at Hopkins last year, and will be intern here next year. Reese Jenkins, '17, who after two and a half years at Hopkins, decided to enter the ministry, and is at Columbia Theological Seminary. And last, and least, Yours truly, Phil Price, '17. 

159 W. 73rd St. 
New York City, 
May 1, 1920.

To Members of the '15 Class:

We are looking forward to “some time” when we get together May 23-4-5-6. That is only some three weeks off now, and in order to make adequate arrangements for everybody, the Reunion Committee needs to know exactly whom to expect and how many are coming. By this time, most of us can plan for that date, so drop me a line at once telling me you will be there and whether you will be willing to take a dormitory room. Whether you can come or not, fire in any suggestion you have for the reunion, yours may be the very one we need. Besides writing me, write a letter to the Davidsonian with all the class “pep” you have. Some other fellow may decide to come when he hears that you will be there.

Loyally,
James C. Harper,
Chairman Reunion Committee.

Professor—“Does the moon affect the tide?”
Louise—"Nope, only the untied.”

DAVIDSON MEN AT HOPKINS

MISS MARY POTTER TO BE HEARD IN CONCERT

Knox and Barnette

Miss Mary Potter, of Newark, N. J., is expected to be here commencement, to give a recital jointly with the Glee Club. Miss Potter has been studying in New York City for a number of years and expects to make her debut in Grand Opera next Fall. She has recently been appearing in “Hans and Gretel” at the Capitol Theatre. For several years she has been singing in the First Presbyterian Church of Newark. Her recital here will be one of the best musical programs ever given at Davidson.

A. P. Saunders, '18, who was a famous first-baseman in his day, taught last year at Tome School, Port Deposit, Md., as instructor and assistant coach. Next year he will be at Lawrenceville, N. J., as assistant athletic director. His many friends on the campus are always glad to hear of “Pete.”

Friends of J. J. Love, '19, will be interested to know that he was married last Wednesday to Miss Lillian Crosland, of Bennettsville, S.C. Many friends of both were present. Davidson friends attending were A. L. Wilson, Fred Thompson, R. K. Shaw, and D. S. Forgay.

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES FRUITS, ETC.
See me for your feeds
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
WHITE'S MARKET
Phone 25-W.
Cornelius, N.C.

GENTLEMEN: When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments, Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings!

PARKER “LUCKY CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, May 6th, 7th, 8th

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

WRIGHT AND WILSON
Scotch Pantomimists

MOSSMAN, WINIFRED AND VANCE
In “VARIOUS DOINGS”

RALPH DUNBAR’S SALON SINGERS
In Moments Musical

BOYLE AND ELAINE
A Study in Tan

KANAZAWA TROUPE
Sensational Equilibrists

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

Patronize Our Advertisers