THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

CONSTITUTION OF THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PREAMBLE.

Article I.
Section I—The name of this organization shall be The Student Government of Davidson College.
Sec. II—The Student Body shall have the following officers: President, Vice-Presidents (two), and Secretary and Treasurer.
Sec. III—There shall be a Student Council which shall be composed of fifteen members, including the President of the Student
Body, the Presidents of the respective classes, and ten councilmen, of whom five shall come from the Senior Class, three
from the Junior Class, and two from the Sophomore Class. The President of the Freshman Class shall not become a
member of the Student Council until after Christmas.

Article II.
Sec. I—It shall be the duty of the Student Body to elect Student Body officers and to strive at all
times to uphold and preserve the Honor System in every department of college life.
Sec. II—It shall be the duty of the President of the Student Body to call meetings of the Student Body
when such meetings are to its best interest, to report any violations of the Honor System which come under his
observation and to preside at these meetings, to call meetings of the Council and to preside when such meetings are
in session; to appoint necessary committees; and to at all times strive toward the improvement of conditions upon the campus.
Sec. III—It shall be the duty of the Vice-President to preside at meetings of the Student Body in the absence
of the President.
Sec. IV—It shall be the duty of the Secretary and Treasurer to collect all Student Body assessments, to keep an
accurate record of all money given over to his care, and to keep accurate minutes of all proceedings of Student
Body meetings.
Sec. V—It shall be the duty of the Student Council to receive, prefer, and try any charges against a student
for a violation of any provisions of the Constitution. They shall investigate rumors injurious to the good name of the
Student Body or any member thereof. At all times they shall strive toward the improvement of conditions upon the campus.
It shall be the duty of the President of the Senior Class to preside at the opening of each college
year.

Article III.
Sec. I—The President of the Student Body shall come from the rising Senior Class, the two Vice-Presidents from the rising
Junior Class, and the Secretary and Treasurer from the rising Sophomore Class. The Presidents of the respective classes shall be
elected not later than April 15th of each collegiate year, and the councilmen from the respective classes not later than
April 20th.
Sec. II—The inauguration of the new President and the new Council shall take place before April 24th and they shall
sit with the old Council at all meetings between this time and the end of the college year. The retiring
President of the Student Body shall preside at all meetings during this time.
Sec. III—At the time of their inauguration, the above officers shall subscribe to the following oath: “I do solemnly swear
that I will, to the best of my ability, perform the duties of the office to which I have been
elected; that I will neither charge any one nor so far as I can know encourage any one to be
charged or tried from envy, hatred, or malice, nor shall I suffer any one to escape the proper judgment of
the Student Council or Student Body, for fear, favor, affection, reward or hope of reward, so help me God.”
Sec. IV—The above officers shall be elected for a term of one college year, entering into their active duties at
the beginning of the fall term.
Sec. V—Should any of the above offices become vacant for any reason, the vacancy shall immediately be filled in accordance
with the method outlined in Article III.

Article IV.
Sec. I—No student shall be guilty of cheating, either on recitation, reviews, or examination; or upon any other pledge work.
Sec. II—No student shall be guilty of stealing, lying, or living an immoral life.
Sec. III—No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors, or of having it in his possession on the campus.

Article V.
Sec. I—There shall be appointed at the opening of each college year a Damage Committee. This committee shall be composed
of two members from each dormitory. It shall be their duty to receive reports of all damage that occurs from
those parties who are responsible, and to in turn report the witnesses against him. In the presence of the Student
Council, he may, if desired, question the witnesses. The Council shall have the right to rule out any questions or
discussions not pertinent to the case. The Student Council shall, during all trials, bear in mind the fact that the
accused is not convicted of the offense for which he was reported until the members of the Council themselves, at
the close of the trial, vote to convict him. Here the duty of the Council is not to convict, but
to seek out and administer justice. A two-thirds vote of those members present shall be necessary for conviction. This vote
shall be taken by secret ballot.
Sec. II—Should the accuser or the accused feel that he has not derived justice at the hands of the Student
Council, he may notify the President of the Student Body that he desires to appeal. The President of the Student
Body shall then at the first opportunity call a meeting of the Student Body. At this meeting, the President shall
preside. He shall first read the evidence produced in the trial before the Student Council. A designated member of the
Council shall then explain the decision which the Council has reached. The Student Body shall then vote on the case.
The decision of the Student Body shall be final.this damage to the proper authorities.

Article VII. Sec. I—There shall be appointed each year the student representatives upon the audit board. It shall be the
duty of this audit board to inspect each month the books and accounts of student organizations of the campus which
are responsible to the college. This is to include the books of the two Literary Societies, those of the Commissary,
of the Davidsonian, of the Magazine, and of the College Annual.

Sec. IV—No student shall engage in hazing.

Sec. V—All students shall respect college property and shall not be guilty of willfully mutilating it or destroying it in
any way.

Sec. VI—No student shall engage in gambling.

Sec. VII—All students shall at all times conduct themselves as becomes a gentleman and a student of Davidson, or representing
the College in any capacity when away from the College.

Sec. VIII—No student shall refrain from reporting any violation of the Honor System which comes under his observation.

Article IX. Sec. I—By secret ballot there shall be created in the Student Council a recommendation committee which shall consist
of seven members: four Seniors, two Juniors, and one Sophomore, all to be selected from the Student Council itself, those
receiving the highest votes being elected, the Senior receiving the highest vote being Chairman of the Committee.

Sec. II—It shall be the duty of this committee to recommend for the office of President of the Student Body
four men from the rising Senior Class; for Vice-President of the Student Body four rising Juniors to be recommended, from
whom two are to be elected; from the rising Sophomore Class three men shall be recommended for Secretary-Treasurer, one to
be elected. The committee shall recommend for the election to the Student Council, eight men from the rising Senior Class,
of whom five are to be elected; from the rising Junior Class five, of whom three are to be elected;
from the rising Sophomore Class four, of whom two are to be elected, and shall also recommend men for the
position of President of the Freshman Class. The Presidents of the three other classes are not included in the recommendations.

Sec. III—The Student Body Officers shall be elected not later than April 15th of each college year. All nominations must
be seconded and a vote by the Student Body shall be taken. A two-thirds vote of those present shall be
necessary for the adoption of an amendment to this Constitution. An amendment adopted in this manner immediately becomes a part
of the Constitution.

Article X. Sec. I—Article II and Article IV of this Constitution shall be read with appropriate explanations before the entire
Student Body at a meeting to be held not later than one week after the opening of school for the
fall term of each college year.

Article V. Sec. I—The Student Council shall meet at least once every two weeks, and at such other times as
provided in Article II, Sec. 2. Each Council shall set for itself a definite time and place for meeting.

Sec. II—At its first meeting the Student Council shall elect a Secretary whose duty it shall be to keep an
accurate record of all proceedings of the Council. His term of office shall be left to the discretion of the
Council which elects him.

Sec. III—Ten members of the Student Council shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

Sec. IV—A student accused of having committed an offense shall be brought before the Student Council at the earliest possible
moment for trial. In no case shall there be any unnecessary delay. All the evidence possible shall be introduced both
for and against the accused, and the Student Council shall take adequate steps to ascertain the validity of this evidence.
The accused shall have the right to hear the evidence and to meet it.

Rev. S. H. Hay, ’06, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Mooresville, has resigned, and will go to Morristown, Tenn.,
where he will become pastor of the church there. Mr. Hay came to Mooresville four years ago from Marion, S.
C.

Dr. J. C. Peden, '10, who has been doing post-graduate work in Philadelphia since his withdrawal from Texas, in June,
will locate at Houston, now with her sister at New Castle, Penn.

WEDDING OF PROMINENT DAVIDSON CITIZEN DULY CELEBRATED

Hood Norton Relinquishes Freedom. Patrons of the popular Davidson barber, Mr. Hood Norton, will be surprised to hear that this
prospering individual has joined the benedicts. Hood has at last responded to the call of arms and journeys to Washington,
D. C., to take unto himself a partner in life. The bride is Miss Annie Douglas Mauney, of Kings Mountain,
and is now with her sister at New Castle, Penn. The ceremony took place at the Big Washington Church, Washington,
D. C., as the chimes tolled five on the evening of Thursday, April 1, nineteen-twenty. The best man was Mr.
Edward Tyson, of Statesville, N. C. The bridal couple will return to Davidson on Friday, and the groom will be
receiving his customers—and presents—at his usual place of business on the following day.

Mrs. C. E. Herrick, of Lancaster, S. C., spent the Easter holidays with Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Cranford.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years
afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements,
write D-S, BROWN.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

happy smiles, white teeth, good appetites and digestions. Its benefits are as GREAT as its cost is SMALL! It satisfies
the desire for sweets, and is beneficial, too.

Sealed Tight Kept Right
