Pennants, College Belts, Freshman Caps, Tennis Rackets, Golf Balls, and Sweaters are a few of the items you can buy. THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920.

Despite the fact that college activities have been greatly disturbed lately, the Polity Club held a very interesting and profitable meeting on last Tuesday night. Quite a goodly number were present, including Dr. Lingle and Professor Shewmake, who are great benefactors to the club, taking great interest in making the programs lively with original suggestions. Both by carefully selected readings and by informal discussions, information of worldwide importance and incalculable value is brought before the club in such a way as to be impressive.

The first reading of the evening was a paper on Japan, by Oltman. In dealing with this subject he rather sympathized with this great power, containing three-fourths of the people of the world, and on whom the various nations of the world have been casting eyes of suspicion for years. Even though Japan is looking forward to unlimited expansion, is not this perfectly natural for a nation so thickly populated, so limited by territorial bounds, and a nation so ambitious for a successful future? Has not America had the same spirit of aggressiveness, and has she not shown it by her actions in the past? Japan has long been the sleeping giant, but now she is the youngest of democracies. Can the American not appreciate her position?

Foscue, the second and last speaker of the evening, had prepared a very valuable paper showing the great part the Balkan States have taken in the world’s business, both ancient and modern. This was followed by a brief discussion by Dr. Lingle, showing the singularity of those small nations, who were in continual civil strife, yet who united under certain conditions.

The Phis held no regular debate Saturday night. The regular program was suspended by motion, in order to elect officers for the incoming term. The first officer to be elected was President. Foscue, Wilson, and Hunter were nominated, but Foscue beat the others by a heavy majority and therefore he gets to handle the gavel. J. A. Poteat fished out the job of Vice-President. McGeachy will have the honor to call the roll and note the fact that, “Booker Moves, Society Adjourn, Seconded by Spence.” Q. H. Spence, Jr., gets to “Cuss-Out” the speeches, speakers and Criticize the Conduct of the hall. Long, C. G., was named Respondent. The Seniors were called on to approach the President's chair and vote for a Valedictorian. D. M. Chalmers was elected.

The President announced that the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest would occur on Monday night, Feb. 23. Much amusement was caused by the announcement.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS.

In October, 1920, one Rhodes Scholar will be selected in each state of the American Union to receive three hundred pounds sterling annually to enable him to pursue his studies in the department of his choice for three years at Oxford University. In each of 16 states, including North and South Carolina, Florida, Louisiana, and West Virginia, two scholars are to be chosen at the time just named. One of the two from each of these states will be chosen in January and the other in October, 1921. At those dates, the scholars must be above 19 and under 25 years of age.

The faculty of Davidson is authorized to choose two men from among those who may be interested, whom it will endorse as applicants for appointments in North Carolina, and also two as applicants in each of the other states concerned. Both upperclassmen and recent alumni are eligible for appointment. A man may apply for appointment in North Carolina where Davidson is located, or in the state of his residence, if his home is in another state, but he may not apply in two states. No examinations are held, the appointments being made on the basis of testimonials and personal interviews with the applicants. The appointments in each state are made by a committee composed of ex-Rhodes Scholars residing in that state, this committee requiring the applicants to come in person for the interview. An all-round man with qualities of leadership is sought for.Appointment by Spence’s pronounced prominence in each state. Stress is laid especially on “literary and scholastic attainments, fondness for and success in outdoor sports, qualities of manhood, moral force of character, and leadership in school and college life.”

When the Second Supervisor got busy, he was fined on no less than four counts by “Sec,” but he was all smiles when all fines were lifted by a motion from Wilson. (Not under one cause in the late war.) Much to the regret of all, Askew, who was to have spoken, was prevented by illness. Three new members were elected: C. J. Matthews, W. P. Cumming, and J. M. Dunlap. The Polity Club will hold its next regular meeting on Tuesday night, February 24, and a large attendance is expected. The program as arranged for that date is as follows: T. H. Spence, “The Irish Question;” R. E. McClure, “Fiume,” and C. A. McGirt, “Digest of Events.”

DISASTROUS COTTON FIRE OCCURS MONDAY

A conflagration of no small consequence occurred at Davidson Monday when a quantity of cotton on the platform at the depot was burned. About 1 o'clock p.m., the depot agent, while attending his duties, noticed smoke arising from the east side of the platform. Quickly investigating, he discovered that several bales of cotton were burning, and the fire was spreading rapidly. Immediately the alarm was spread, and soon a water hose was secured. After much labor, the fire was practically extinguished. The property, consisting of about 125 bales, was owned by Messrs. Goodrum and Brown. It is impossible to estimate the loss at present, though it covered possibly 25 percent of the actual value of the cotton and was only partially covered by insurance. The origin of the fire is unknown.

THE COMMISSARY

Davidson men everywhere may apply at any time for further information to Prof. Thos. W. Lingle, who represents the Rhodes Scholarship interests at Davidson, and who is authorized both by the Rhodes Foundation and by the Davidson faculty to assist in every possible way any and all Davidson men who may be interested in the Rhodes Scholarships. All who care to apply for appointment next fall should send in their names to Professor Lingle between now and September 10, at which time the faculty will select from the whole list two men for endorsement as applicants for appointment in North Carolina, and two for each of the other states concerned. The faculty will then assist the selected men in every possible manner to get formal applications, testimonials, etc., into proper shape and into the hands of the respective state committees by October 1.

A Davidson alumnus has just been appointed a Rhodes Scholar for Arkansas. As two scholars are to be appointed next October in each of the Carolinas and the other states named above, there is at least a showing for the appointment of several Davidson men next time, if our strongest, all-round men apply.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY

The two sections of the Eu society met in joint session Saturday night. Officers for the Monday night section were elected and then the program was carried out. Cummings was elected vice-president, R. R. Craig was elected reviewer, and W. W. Moore was the successful candidate for secretary. The subject for debate was, resolved, that the Merchant Marine should be increased by the U.S. Askew, Ogden, and McIlwaine, representing the Saturday night section of the society, upheld the affirmative. C. J. Matthews, D. L. Mahood, and P. D. Miller, representing the Monday night section, upheld the negative. The decision was won by the latter side. The affirmative argued that the time was now opportune for increasing the Merchant Marine, under present conditions the Merchant Marine could be profitably handled. Too much money and material would be lost if the Merchant Marine were abandoned at this time. The affirmative also stated that the U.S. must have an outlet for her products.

“WITH FIRE AND SWORD” GIVES GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION OF POLAND

Many Things of Interest About This Country Narrated.

Not through the exacting and tedious outlines of events do we learn the history of a people, but by the historic novel we learn the spirit and course of nations. We would pass lightly over English history if we had not our Scott, Thackeray, and Dickens, to imprint indelibly on our memories the deeds of past ages in pleasing and interesting style. But not in our own tongue alone must we search for historical books. Poland, the land of misfortune, has laid on the altar of human endeavor some of the sublimest works of all time. In the art of war, she raised up a hero in Kosciuszko, who so espoused the cause of freedom that he crossed the seas to aid us in our war for independence. In music, she has given us Chopin and Paderewski, but in the field of literature, she has given us Henryk Sienkiewicz. Who has not read Quo Vadis and viewed with horror the persecutions of the Christians; seen the insane excesses of Nero; heard the whispered words of love between Vinicius and Lygia; or beheld the elegance of a degraded period in the body of Petronius. Did not this book lead you into the Roman home and show you in a beautiful way the age of Nero? Sienkiewicz did not stop with one great work, but gave us “With Fire and Sword” to teach us the history of Poland in the early seventeenth century. At first sight, this appears to be hard reading on account of the long Slavic names, but one soon forgets this difficulty in reading the story. Every student should read this book, not only because of its good story, but because it deals with people and places little known and often misrepresented. The recent war brought to our ears the names of Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania, and the Dnieper river. Let us know something about this section of the world and learn through the easiest and most interesting way—by reading “With Fire and Sword.”

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N.C. Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States. DAVIDSON AGENCY A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts

Drink PEPSI-COLA Exhilarating

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories