THEDA ‘a a t. ie “— FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON SONIAN SUNDAY Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER
22, 1920. No. 7 PRESBYTERIANS OUTCLASS BAPTISTS BY 27-7 SCORE

Wake Forest trying one of its line bucks against the impregnable defense of the Wildcat line, being stopped on line
of scrimmage. Other scene shows the Red and Black supporters staging great “snake dance” demonstration between halves. Photo by McIlwaine.

Dr. Weatherford Brings Stirring Messages to Davidson Students
Prominent Y. M. C. A. Worker Leads in Annual Evangelistic Campaign

Dr. W. D. Weatherford, of Nashville, Tenn. opened the Y. M. C. A. Revival, Sunday morning with an address on
“The Real Meaning of the Christian Life.” In a clear and concise manner the speaker showed, first, that ours is
not a sanctimonious and long-faced religion, but that it is a religion that will stand by a man anywhere and
all the time. The inadequate forms and theories of religion were then taken up and their defects shown. The first
of these is simply belief in certain theories and creeds, which although good enough in their place, do not form
the real backbone of our religion. The second false theory is the belief that Emotionalism is absolutely the essential thing
in the Christian life. Emotionalism is a result of close relationship, and is an expression of religion, but is far
from being Christianity in itself. Also, some think that religion consists in merely lopping off bad habits and taking on
a few good ones. Of course religion has a moral content, as nothing would be worthy of the name which
did not tend to clean up a man’s life in all ways, but mere altruism is not religion. Nor does
ritualism form the essential cog of the works. Going to church and prayers and reading the Bible are all very
good in themselves, but something more and deeper still is needed. Then what is the true religion? Who is the
true Christian? He is the person who is an obedient and loving son of God and a brotherly friend to
man. He is one who through daily contact with Jesus has come to know God as his Father and man
as his brother, and to act accordingly. Taking mankind as a whole there are three divisions: (1) Those who are
the so-called outbreaking sinners; who deliberately live a sinful life; (2) Those who know and assent to God’s program, but
are too indolent and careless to do anything; (3) Those who know God’s (Continued on page 6)

Founded by Students $250.00 Gathered for Democratic Campaign Fund

The Cox-Roosevelt Club was established among the students two weeks ago. Its purpose is to give Davidson Democrats a chance
to help the old party swing the Presidential election. C. K. Brown was elected president and has directed the raising
of a fund for aiding the Democrats financially as well as morally. Men appointed by Brown canvassed the student body
for subscriptions, with concrete results of over a hundred dollars. The faculty has certainly done its share in forwarding the
movement. Dr. Harding, to whom the Cox-Roosevelt funds have been turned over, states that the faculty has contributed $115, and
that a total of $250 was sent in to the Democratic headquarters last Wednesday.

Tennis Players Prepare to Meet Carolina
Early Games of Tournament Fast and Interesting

With several matches in sight, the tennis aspirants have been trying to decide who shall compose the team to represent
the college against Elon, University of N.C. and other institutions. A short tournament was arranged by the manager, C. E.
Cunningham, for those who wished to try out. This was not a free for all, but was only for those
who really thought they had a chance.

Davidson’s Smashing Attack Proves Too Much for Wake Forest
Wildcats Show Superiority Over Opponents in Every Phase of the Game—Shepard, Hammett and Moore Star for Red and Black

The Davidson Wildcats won for themselves a crown of glory by triumphing over the strong Baptist team by a score
of 27 to 7. It was a very decisive victory due to the dashing offense and stone wall defense of
the Davidson team, her spurt to victory with the first whistle, and thereafter in every quarter added another touchdown to
her total.

How Well Do You Know Your College?
These Statistics Reveal Interesting Facts About Student-Body

Statistics, like history, may be “dry” or interesting in proportion to our interest in them and also in proportion to
the amount of statistics wemust read to get the information we desire. Although this club is supported by the student
body, a very large percent of the college students and our alumni responded to the call and have been trying
their luck with the racquet and ball, hoping to be one of the four who shall compose the team. Below
is given a brief summary of the tournament up to date:

First Round.
Thursday—7:00 p.m. Mission A. C. Ormond defeated Cicero Gaither in a close set, 6-4, 7-5. Cicero played good, consistent ball,
but the swift cross-court of Curtis was too much for him. In a rather slow and uninteresting game, J. P.
Price beat J. W. Groves to the tune of 6-2, 6-1. Caruthers found that the slow, tricky cuts of Morris
were too hard to handle and went down in defeat, 6-3, 6-3. Following his service with a quick rush to
the net, A. P. Ormond was able to win from McClain, 6-4, 7-5. With hard and quick tennis on both
sides, H. M. White came out on top in a close match with Bob Davidson, 6-4, 6-3. Playing his usual
consistent, placing game, Ed Cunningham gave A.

(Continued on page 8)

We are all interested in the growth of Davidson. Looking back 20 years, we find the total enrollment for the
term 1900-01 was 131. Ten years later, in the term 1910-11, the enrollment totaled 342. At present, our enrollment is
492, but curiously enough, both in 1910 and 1920 we drew men from 16 states and the same three foreign
countries, namely, China, Japan, and Persia. "Where are you from?" is nearly always the first question we ask new men
and they ask us the first time we meet. Here is the answer: North Carolina, 226. South Carolina, 98. Georgia,
32. Virginia, 21. Florida, 18. Tennessee, 27. Alabama, 17. Mississippi, 13. Texas, 6. Missouri, 1. Maryland, 2. Louisiana, 5.

(Continued on page 6)

Captain Hammett won the toss and chose to defend the north goal and receive the kick-off. Wake Forest kicked off
to McFadden who returned 20 yards and from that point the march of the Presbyterians was irresistible and at many
points in the game the Baptists were calling for water. The drive down the field for the first touchdown took
six minutes, and during that time Shepard, Cassell, and Moore did some pretty broken field running around ends and over
tackle. When the ball was within Wake Forest’s ten-yard line, it was given to Shepard who took it over the
goal line. Cassell kicked goal. Score, Davidson, 7, W. F. 0.

During the time it took to make that touchdown, the Wildcat rooters were calling vociferously for a touchdown and as
if in echo to the pleading of these rooters, the Queens College girls yelled themselves hoarse in support of the
Davidson team. Time and again when a few yards were needed to make first down, these fair rooters shouted encouragement
to the team which finally triumphed. In the second quarter, the ball seesawed back and forth for a few minutes
and then the Davidson men got hold of it and by forward passes and end runs took the ball over.
Poe did the prettiest bit of line bucking in the whole game at this part, when he ran 20 yards
through the whole Wake Forest team, time and again knocking men off who seemed sure to stop him. Shepard made
the second touchdown by outrunning several men who tried to stop him from going around end. McFadden kicked goal.

(Continued on page 8)

THAT’S THE START. WILDCATS! KEEP IT UP!
