THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1920. 
BY J.M. DUNLAP

With regard to musical instruments, the students are divided into two classes—those who play them and those who cuss them. The latter class predominates.

Notice: Our MacSwiney club has gone into the hands of receivers. WHY NOT?

In Memoriam E. H. BROWN
He died of a broken heart.

Brady Thrills Students. Praises Work of Captain Hammett—Speaks of Date with Sweetheart after Game.

In a masterful oration before the entire Davidson student body, Hon. Sam Breeches Brady tells what he and the team are going to do in Charlotte. An enjoyable social event after the game is described. Speech in detail follows:

(Brady interrupted by prolonged applause.)

It was worth reading, or even funny; although many have admitted that it was amusing because it was so sad. But we've got a darn good disposition, and in order to fill up these two columns, I'm writing this junk again. And in case we do happen to make you laugh, why, tell somebody about it, and then tell us, and we'll appreciate it. And if we write about you and it makes you sore, why, run and swallow some carbolic acid. It'll let you forget. And remember that this space has got to be filled; so bear with us, and—that’s all.

—The Crimson-White.

Whatcha Know
The following poem, published in the Tar Baby, was sent to a certain brown-eyed Davidson student by the fair author at Chicora College.

I am dreaming of you only,
Of your beautiful brown eyes;
And which to me can never lie.

You're a good judge Ray; we like her.

(More applause—cheers—meeting breaks up. Pandemonium reigns.)

Each second, each hour breaks.
Each day, how I miss
The soft touch of your lips
In a passionate kiss.

Dear folks: We have written this sad stuff in this column for two years already and haven't yet run into anybody that thought it was worth reading. Or even funny; although many have admitted that it was amusing because it was so sad. But we've got a darn good disposition, and in order to fill up these two columns, I'm writing this junk again. And in case we do happen to make you laugh, why, tell somebody about it, and then tell us, and we'll appreciate it. And if we write about you and it makes you sore, why, run and swallow some carbolic acid. It'll let you forget. And remember that this space has got to be filled; so bear with us, and—that’s all.

Shimmy Now Shiver. Fricker, where’s your overcoat?

And when you, my dear, with a kiss quench my thirst, I am glad that with you, there'll be no July First.

What Fools We Mortals Be.
We presume from the way Windy Aiken has been hanging around the Post Office for the past two months that he is looking for someone to write him a letter.

How Large is an Atom?
Atoms are so infinitesimal that to be seen under the most powerful microscope, one hundred million must be grouped. The atom used to be the smallest indivisible unit of matter. When the X-Rays and radium were discovered, physicists found that they were dealing with smaller things than atoms—with particles they call “electrons.” Atoms are built up of electrons, just as the solar system is built up of sun and planets. Magnify the hydrogen atom, says Sir Oliver Lodge, to the size of a cathedral, and an electron, in comparison, will be no bigger than a bird-shot. Not much substantial progress can be made in chemical and electrical industries.unless the action of electrons is studied. For that reason, the chemists and physicists in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are as much concerned with the very constitution of matter as they are with the development of new inventions. They use the X-Ray tube as if it were a machine-gun; for by its means, electrons are shot at targets in new ways so as to reveal more about the structure of matter. As a result of such experiments, the X-Ray tube has been greatly improved and the vacuum tube, now so indispensable in radio communication, has been developed into a kind of trigger device for guiding electrons by radio waves. Years may thus be spent in what seems to be merely a purely “theoretical” investigation. Yet nothing is so practical as a good theory. The whole structure of modern mechanical engineering is reared on Newton's laws of gravitation and motion—theories stated in the form of immutable propositions. In the past, the theories that resulted from purely scientific research usually came from the university laboratories, whereupon the industries applied them. The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company conceive it as part of their task to explore the unknown in the same spirit, even though there may be no immediate commercial goal in view. Sooner or later, the world profits by such research in pure science. Wireless communication, for example, was accomplished largely as the result of Hertz's brilliant series of purely scientific experiments demonstrating the existence of wireless waves.

General Electric
General Office Company
Schenectady, N.Y.
—L. W. T.

——————————

Say it with Flowers
L. A. ELLIOTT SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

See me for your feeds

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
At the Powerhouse Agency
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK
“If you want it off, do not put it on”
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats---anything made of rubber. Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Wholesale Accessories
Spartanburg, S. C.

OUR NEW HOME
DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte, we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.