THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS

THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY and COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Guaranteed, Free Trial General Selling Plan
Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms
“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Stieff Ware Rooms
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

DR. METCALF ENTERTAINED BY SIGMA UPSILON.
Informal Discussion Features Meeting of Literary Fraternity.

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon held an informal meeting last Monday night in honor of Dr. J. Calvin
Metcalf, who was instrumental in founding the Rotunda Chapter of Sigma Upsilon at the University of Virginia. After an informal
talk by Dr. Metcalf, the gathering adjourned to enjoy the refreshments which were provided.

During his talk, Dr. Metcalf reviewed briefly the history of literary groups. The first literary lights who combined together were
a group of men in the middle of the seventeenth century. Aubrey was the leading member, and the organization was
called the Sodality in a Tavern. They met together in an ale house in London, and combined good fellowship with
intellectual and literary discussions.

In this country, the Saturday Night Club of Boston was the first literary organization. In it were such men as
Emerson and Oliver Wendell Holmes. Later on, in New York, another band of men met together to discuss literature and
literary problems. Of this group, James Fennimore Cooper was the most noted member.

These different clubs served their purpose well, for besides joining together the brightest literary minds of the day, they fostered
and encouraged literary effort and production. In the present day, there is no such outstanding club. Its place has been
taken by the literary groups, many of them local in character, in the various colleges of the country. These organizations
aim, as a whole, to foster the study and appreciation of literature on the part of its members, and more
especially to bring out and develop the latent literary talent which so often lies uncovered.

Practically the only national organization of this kind in the United States is the fraternity of Sigma Upsilon, which has
21 or more chapters in different colleges and universities. This organization is honorary, but also social in character. Its members
are selected from the two upper classes, and aim to take in those men on the campus who have shown
especial ability in, or interest for, the literary productions of the campus.

After Dr. Metcalf had ended his speech, hot cocoa, cake, and cigars were passed around. The entertainment was thoroughly enjoyed
by all, and was ended only by the approach of the supper hour.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA HONORS SIX MEN.

The Omicron Delta Kappa held an initiation Wednesday, November 10, in the Kappa Alpha hall. The new men taken in
were L. O. Hammett, C. M. McCaskill, D. W. Roberts, R. L. Rogers, J. B. Sizer, and J. R. Walker.
There are chapters of this honorary fraternity in a number of prominent southern colleges. The following Davidson students were already
entitled to wear the O. D. K. key: Currie, Romefelt, J. E. Cassell, and L. B. Schenck. Dr. Martin, Dr.
Sentelle, Dr. McConnell, and Mr. Jackson compose the faculty membership of the fraternity.

NO MORE HUNTING FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS.

Many of the students have been hunting around here lately, and there has been some complaint. Many of the farmers
have requested that students do not hunt on their land until the season is open. In past years the season
has come in about November, but on account of game being so scarce this season will not open until December.
Furthermore, anyone outside of the state of North Carolina cannot hunt here without a North Carolina license, and some counties
require a county license also. Anybody has the right to report one for hunting out of season, or without a
license, and probably a fine will be imposed accordingly. “A word to the wise is sufficient.”

Established 1878
A. G. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.

His dissipation of the night before—he stayed up until after eleven o'clock and while getting the returns smoked three 8c
cigars—gave out the following statement: “Although it seems that we are defeated, still my cloud has a silver lining, the
South heard my voice and heeded it by voting solid, and my home county went democratic by a large majority.”
Later in the...day C. K. openly acknowledged his defeat by sending a message of congratulations to Hoo John, leader of
the opposition.

Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

EX-SERVICE MEN HOLD FIRST ANNUAL BANQUET.
Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion Dines at Mrs. Brady’s.
288 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Members of the Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion gathered at Mrs. Brady’s boarding house on the night of Thursday
the eleventh for their first annual Armistice Day banquet. The banquet hall was tastefully decorated with the national colors. The
centerpiece of each table was carefully worked out with small flags and red, white, and blue ribbon. Small silk flags
were given as souvenirs. Sixty covers were laid for the members of the post and their friends. The menu was
carefully prepared by Mrs. Brady and her assistants, which appealed to the tastes of the former fighting men. And there
is no doubt but that it hit the spot. Instead of the erstwhile army beans and army bread, the Legionaries
dined on:

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Celery
Dill Pickles
Roast Turkey
Cranberry Sauce
Tomato Jelly
Cold Boiled Ham
Mashed Potatoes
June Peas
Candied Sweet Potatoes
Beaten Biscuit
Fruit Cake
Ice Cream
Coffee

During the festivities, A. P. Ormond and Frank Law rendered the latest melodies on piano and saxophone. Lt. Col. J.
W. MacConnell, M. C. R., post commander, acted as toastmaster and made the principal address of the evening. He told
of the trials and privations of the doughboys overseas in a humorous way. Colonel MacConnell launched into a more serious
vein as he discussed the needs and aims of the post. His main plea was that there ought to be
established at an early date a woman's auxiliary of the post to be composed of the relatives of the members.
He stressed the good that such an organization could do in furthering the social activities of the post. Everybody present
voted a good time and it is contemplated that the banquet be made an annual affair.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON CHOOSES NEW MEMBERS

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter, garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain
We want to serve you
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

BELK BROS.
WE PREPAY CHARGES ON MAIL ORDERS.
SEND US YOUR ORDERS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Charlotte’s Leading Dept. Store

Have you noticed that mystic trio, during the past week, who have been ambling to and fro in our midst,
and who have attracted our attention to that curious and mysterious chemical laboratory production which they have so gracefully slung
around their necks? As truly as I live, these three have in a test tube, slung around their necks by
a blue and white ribbon, a complicated and beautifully coagulated blue and white substance, which rivals the aurora in all
its splendor, on a balmy summer day. Indeed it is true, that these three gentlemen have proven themselves proficient in
that ancient, medieval, and modern science commonly called chemistry, and have been pledged into the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity.
They will be duly initiated at a later date. Those pledged are Cunningham, C. E., Lowry, T. M., and Spencer,
R. H.

MEETING NEW CONDITIONS WITH NEW PRICES
We anticipated just these conditions months ago, and prepared to meet them. Going Through Every Department of Our Nine Floors,
we have changed prices downward to the level of today's manufacturers and in many cases LESS.
Men's and Boys’ Clothing—Shoes—Hats—Furnishings of All Kinds—Fall and Winter Underwear.
Wool Goods—Silks—Linens—All Kinds of White Goods—Ladies’ Ready-to-Wear—Household Furnishings.

NOV. 2 PROVES DISASTROUS FOR COX-ROOSEVELT CLUB
President Brown Cheerful.

Caesar had his Brutus; Napoleon his Waterloo, and C. K. Brown and the Cox-Roosevelt Club had their Second of November.
By one of the greatest Republican landslides in the history of the party, Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge were
elected to pilot the ship of state for the next four years. This in spite of the fact that C.
K. and the Cox-Roosevelt Club demanded and prophesied that their candidates should be elected. When interviewed at an early hour
Wednesday morning, C. K. tired out and with dark circles under his eyes from

Send us your MAIL ORDERS—or better still, Come To See US—It Will Pay You.
BELK BROS.
