THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 29, 1920

Alumni News

TO DAVIDSON.

Rev. H. C. Whitener, '09, is now in North Carolina on his first furlough from Japan. Mr. Whitener took his
theological training at Princeton and went to Japan under the care of the Northern Church.

Rev. M. J. McLean, '07, of Morgan City, La., has been instrumental in completing an attractive church for his little
charge. During the war period, he put on overalls and worked in the shipyards of Morgan City, giving the high
wages earned to the building fund, and then he worked with his own hands on the building. It is completely
furnished, has a new organ, and was dedicated on April 12.

Send me back to Alma Mater,
Where the summer skies are blue,
Where the gods walk mid the shadows,
In the Sunset’s rosy hue.
For I’ve heard their voices calling,
And it’s there that I would be,
The dear heart of the old Campus,
Beckons with its love to me.
To the shadows of trees stately,
Setting quietly on the hill,
To the dear old college campus,
My own thoughts are turning still.
For the college bells are calling,
And I know they say to me,
“Come again, you old alumnus,
Come with new-born love for me.”
—Quips and Cranks.

Clarke C. Minter, 1913, was married April 5 to Miss Julia Claire Sullivan, of Washington, D. C. They are at
home at 201 West Madison Street, Baltimore, Md.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

ATTEND(SHUN).

Stop a minute, loyal alumnus, and consider how long it has been since your class left the campus of Davidson
College with a firm resolve and determination to have an enthusiastic reunion within a few years. Is not this the
year? Some years ago, you will remember, the faculty sent forth a standing invitation, if not a demand, to all
who respect authority (as well as to some that do not) to come up to “Jerusalem” every fifth year for
feast and fun. Beginning with the infant class, 1920, all classes five, ten, fifteen, twenty, etc., years old are this
year within the draft age, and are under orders. Are you coming? Are you writing to your classmates to meet
you here? Is your sap rising?

CLASS SPIRIT IS THE THING.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

DAVIDSON ALUMNI MAKING GOOD AT COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

More than one-third of the students at Columbia Seminary this year are Davidson men. Davidson is represented in the Senior
class by Jno. B. Belk, ex-'16, who will receive his A.B. and M.A. from the University of South Carolina; T.
M. Stephenson.

In the middle class are the following Davidson men: C. F. Allen, ex-'19; R. C. Glontz, ex-'20; Geo. A. Hudson,
ex-'19; O. N. Hunnicut, ex-'19; W. J. Hunnicut, ex-'19; E. H. Bird, ex-'17; J. T. Gillespie, ex-'17.

In the Junior class are: J. W. Miller, '17; C. R. Jenkins, '17; H. B. Dendy, '19. Jno. D. Gillespie
is taking special work.

All the Davidson men at Columbia are doing good work and are all well pleased with Columbia. They all think
Columbia the best seminary in the Southern Church. The Columbia faculty is unexcelled and with new endowment funds coming in
from the several campaigns now in progress, Columbia will be in a position to offer even more advantages to her
students. A large Junior class is expected next year; thirteen men from the Presbyterian College of South Carolina have already
signed up and several are expected from Davidson, as well as a good number from Alabama, Tennessee, Florida, and Georgia.

Davidson is well represented on the faculty by Dr. Thornton Whaling, president; Dr. R. C. Reed, professor of Church History
and Church Polity; Prof. E. D. Kerr, professor of Hebrew; Dr. W. M. Mills, instructor in Rural Sociology; Dr. H.
R. Murchison, business manager and corresponding secretary.

Mr. L. W. Dick, Sr., of Hartsville, S. C., '81, was on the hill from Saturday until Monday visiting his
son, L. W., Jr. Mr. Dick had attended an insurance convention held in Charlotte and took the opportunity to visit
his old alma mater.

Dr. J. S. Mitchner, 1909, of North Carolina, came out from the Medical Convention at Charlotte to shake hands with
his friends.

Dr. Wm. L. Davidson, ex-1910, of Chester, S. C., has just been given a Distinguished Service Cross for heroism north
of Verdun on October 12, 1918, in attending wounded under fire afterhaving been seriously wounded himself.

During last week, Mr. Herbert Cunningham, ex-’64, who left in 1862 to join C. S. A., and is now one
of the most influential and loved men in the South Carolina Press Association, was on the hill Sunday. He is
now editor of Bishopville (S. C.) Leader and Vindicator. Mr. J. E. Couser (class unknown) of Bishopville, S. C., was
on the hill Sunday. He is the father of James H. and William, who are now at Union, one in
third and the other in first year. H. A. Campbell, '17, is now located with the A. & R. Railway
Company, at Aberdeen, N. C.

The Furniture looks like New—and I did it all myself. It is so easy and inexpensive to restore old furniture;
worn floors and woodwork to their former beauty and newness. Simply apply one coat of Re-Nu-Lac on anything that needs
refinishing and you'll be delighted with the fine result. Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC comes in 20 Natural Wood and Enamel Colors,
White, Gold, and Silver. Ask for Color-Card. PRASLEE-GAULBERT CO. M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address.

J. M. Harden, '10, is headmaster of the Darlington school at Rome, Ga.

Rev. J. C. Hines, ex-'12, has moved from Calvert, Tex., to Hatcher, Ky.

W. G. Morrison, ’16, is a junior member of the R. T. Polk Cotton Company, at Memphis, Tenn.

TOWN NEWS.

Mr. E. H. Jennings and wife, of Fayetteville, N. C., were guests of Mrs. Paisley Thursday. With Mr. Jennings was
his brother, Dr. W. B. Jennings, an old Davidson man, now of Germantown, Pa.

Dr. Wilson MacConnell read a paper on “Tonsil Surgery” before the North Carolina State Medical Association in Charlotte last week.
Dr. MacConnell was formerly president of the ear, nose, and throat section of the association.

Miss Sallie Lafferty has returned home after spending the winter in Florida.

The Parent-Teachers’ Association held a meeting at the school building Thursday afternoon and planned for the betterment of the school.

Rev. A. C. Ormond, of Talladega, Ala., is here to assist in the removal of the family to their new
home. They expect to leave Davidson April 29.

Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, April 29, 30, May 1
OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

MRS. T. W. LINGLE ACTIVE IN SOCIAL WELFARE WORK

For the past three or four years, Mrs. Lingle has been the secretary and treasurer of the North Carolina Conference
for Social Service, and has also been appointed by the governor as one of three members on the State Board
of Charities and Public Welfare. She has carried out all these duties with the greatest efficiency. She has become known
widely for her interest and ability in the work and has lately held several important positions in similar conferences at
the University of Virginia, assisting in the conference held there on citizenship. This week she is at Orlando, Fla., where
the University of Florida is conducting a district conference. In her connection with the University, she will assist in similar
Citizenship Conferences at Live Oak, Pensacola, and West Palm Beach, where the Extension Department of the University of Florida is
carrying on its work. In addition to this widespread work that Mrs. Lingle is doing in the Southern universities, she
was offered and will probably accept a position in Columbia University, in New York, in conducting a conference on Social
Work there.

PATHE NEWS - ROLIN COMEDY
WILLA AND HAROLD BROWN
Artistic Rag Pictures
WARREN SISTERS
In “What Girls Have Done”
“THE CURRENT OF FUN”
Presenting
MADAM BURNELL, the Scientific Enigma
TOMMY HAYDE AND CARMEN ERCELE
English Character Comedian and Prima Donna Violinist
MAXINE BROTHERS AND BOBBY
The Comedy Dog

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

New Spring Suits from the shops of "Society Brand." Single and double-breasted models, ready for your inspection. Spring Shoes, Shirts,
Furnishings, etc. The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street
