PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

NOTICE!
The following were not turned out by us and we will accept no responsibility arising from them.

We hope
You won't grope
For the point of our wit
It's not too deep
To cause you sleep
So try to see it.

If we should fall into the drink
We should be inclined to sink
Because the sinkers we devour
Would pull us down in the sad hour,
But then the grits, that we have eaten
Would give us grit that can’t be beaten.

The softest thing in geology is rocks.

Some Advantages of Railroad Electrification:
- Saving the Nation's coal
- Lower maintenance costs
- Greater reliability and fewer delays
- Ability to haul smoothly heavier trains at higher speed
- Operation of electric locomotives unaffected by extreme cold
- Ability to brake trains on descending grades by returning power to the trolley

General Office Schenectady, NY.
THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920.

We wonder if some people have to part their hair in the middle to keep their head balanced.

Nick Carter, the great Detective, has been recently wearing disguise number 27 on his upper lip. Take notice ye who
listen to the whispers of fashion, Al Wilson no longer parts his hair in the middle. Snake Oil Jones is
also contemplating making a redivision of his chestnut locks.

Jim Witherspoon makes a posthumous speech for the spirit of Henry Spann, departed. It was in his usual line of
half-bright wit.

Want Ads:
Morris chair to be placed at Elliott's.—L. A. McMaster.

Re-exam, Re-exam
We hope to pass you if we cram.

Contrary to the other rooms on the third floor, Georgia, Liston’s room is always warm, having a unique and personal
heating system. While he is in his room it is almost oppressively hot. (This may not get in).

Spence is broke. About time for another tennis tournament.

Terror is manifested in the camps of the other class teams when Fricker announces his intention of steamrolling through the
lines of his puny opponents. He will play the position of fullback on the Junior team.

ELECTRICITY has leveled out the Continental Divide. The steam locomotive, marvelous as it is after a century of development, cannot
meet all of the present demands for transportation facilities. Its electric rival has proved to be far superior. On the
mountain divisions of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway—the world’s greatest electrification—giant electric locomotives today lift an ever-increasing freight
tonnage over the mile-high Rockies and also make traveling clean and comfortable. They utilize the abundant energy of distant waterfalls
and then, by returning some of this power to the trolley, safely brake the trains on descending grades. And their
capabilities are not impaired by excessively cold weather when the steam engine is frozen and helpless.

The Power of Electricity in Transportation

The man (He runs the commissary) oozed through a window (How did he do it?) thus letting in the impatient
sleepwalkers. As soon as the snowshoes ordered from the commissary arrive, probably about the first of next December, the tennis
tournament will be continued.

A pretty girl was seen on the campus. Jim would like to "spoon" with her.

Why We Want Spring:
- Base-balls instead of snow-balls
- Horse-shoes instead of snow-shoes
- Ice-cream instead of snow-cream
- Cold ice instead of ice-cold
- Dusters instead of mufflers
- Warm radiators instead of cold radiatorscloudy night—no stars. I tried to kiss the pretty miss— And then I saw
the stars. Plunk, flunk, flunk, on pages I did not see— And I would that my tongue could utter The
thoughts that arise in me. We are taking it easy this week. Thus far you have perused the production of
Tommie Hawkins and Mike Robinson, laymen on the job, but nevertheless, two of the most boresome wits of the college.
The ensuing selections were donated by Ray Doubles, the best looking youth in school, according to the ladies, and we
have never heard him deny it.

Electricity is the power which drives the trains of New York City’s subway and elevated systems. It operates the locks
and tows the ships through the Panama Canal. It propels the Navy's latest super-dreadnaught, the New Mexico. Electric mine locomotives
have replaced the slow-moving mule and the electric automobile has also come to do an important service. Such achievements were
made possible by the extensive research and manufacturing activities of the General Electric Company. Electricity has become the universal motive
power. It has contributed efficiency and comfort to every form of transportation service and in this evolution General Electric apparatus
has played a large part—from mighty electric locomotives to the tiny lamp for the automobile.

But as we were saying, we might have had time to write a letter had not the faculty obligingly clamped
on three reviews and also (apologies to Major Hall) our typewriter is busted and it's not much fun trying to
write to a girl by hand. Also if she were to translate some of our characters as the printers do
sometimes—well, she probably wouldn't ask to decipher any more. Since this is the bottom of the page and the end
of our ideas, Goodbye.

PERSONAL ADVERTISING. Interesting Anecdotes in the Lives of Great Men on the Basketball Trip—Contributed (and paid for) by Themselves.

THEY WIN IN A WALK
We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new
athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box: single or double breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain
stripes or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

Gig Shepherd, viewing a field of Dixie’s pride last Monday morning: “You can't down a cotton field's complexion: summer or
winter.”

Bob Allison, as the Davidson-Charlotte special halts in the snow: “They must be digging for the switch.”

Chalmers, as the train butcher comes through with confections: “I'm going to wait until I can get what I want.”

“Twice” Doubles: “Do you reckon she will have you?”

“Shake a leg.” Pig Latin for pass the bacon, according to Crawford, of Sumter, S.C.

(Continued on page 7)

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
