THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

Sealed Tight
For rosy cheeks, happy smiles, white teeth, good appetites, and digestions. Its benefits are as GREAT as its cost is SMALL! It satisfies the desire for sweets and is beneficial too. Kept Right.

WRIGLEY'S

Faculty
THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary, Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis.
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis.
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church Polity.
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics.
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages.
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution.
WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology. Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920.
H. McKINNEY, D.D., Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921.
W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D., Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church.

Write to
PRESIDENT, Columbia, S.C.

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.
See me for your feeds.

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE
J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
221 W. Trade St.
Phone 3486

WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
WHITE'S MARKET
Phone 25-W.
Cornelius, N.C.

(Continued from page 1)
Great Convention at Des Moines.
In advance, everyone was eager to attend a great exhibit of posters in the city auditorium. There were over 400 such representing work in various countries, the work of various religious organizations, outstanding features of the work in many colleges, the needs of the world, and many other timely topics. Here also was the convention post office, a cloakroom, and a restroom.

The railroad officials are to be congratulated on the way in which they handled the crowd. For more than an hour, the Rock Island's genial station master had sent one regular and seven special trains on their way rejoicing in the homeward journey. Others are to be thanked for the stop-over in Chicago and in Cincinnati that was allowed many delegates.

As the Southern Railroad and some of the folks in the Chicago railroad yards would have it, North and South Carolina were the last to arrive in Des Moines, advertised as “The City of Certainties,” and known to us as “The City of Hospitality.” The afternoon session was well underway and of course, it was impossible to attend it.

Ample facilities for the registration of all delegates were found in the Polk County Court House. Every delegate was soon the possessor of a red ticket of admission to the Coliseum, our headquarters, and an introductory letter to their place of abode. Some few were able to hear the closing words of the afternoon and to get a glimpse of the enormous auditorium seating nearly 19 times as many as our local chapel.

But to give the idea and the impressions of the convention that many would wish is impossible for such an article as this. In the very front of the large audience were the foreign students, numbering well above the zero mark. Every delegate was privileged to attend the regular sessions of the convention in the day. Most of the time it was well above the zero mark.

No word of too high praise can be given the people of the hospitable convention city for their many kindnesses. Ladies in every church in the city banded together to furnish food at moderate cost for the delegates.

It would not be true to the convention to close any account without saying that prayer was much emphasized during the sessions. Dr. Mott, himself, is a man of prayer and it is no wonder that he should direct the great body of delegates into that special part of our worship that God’s richest blessing should rest upon the meeting. In these moments of silent meditation that characterized the meeting, every delegate was drawn closer to the One whose power could be felt in the great gathering.

There were set burning in Des Moines fires that can have come from nowhere save from the altars of heaven. Every delegate in his or her serious moments offers the prayer that God may bless with fruition the seed sown at this the greatest convention in the history of the movement and in many ways the greatest religious gathering of college men and women in the history of the world.Every person approached was willing at all times to render any service possible that would add to the comfort of the delegates. Up into the hundreds and seated according to the countries that they represented. Just behind these were the various delegations grouped according to the state or province of the United States or Canada from which they came. The first floor seemed large enough but there were also two balconies, and in the first of these were five of the Davidson men. Chalmers, Schenck, Bitzer, Richards, and Mauze sat with the North Carolina crowd, while McClure had to join the reporters’ club to get admission to the convention. The main sessions of the convention were held morning and evening in the Coliseum. These services were full of interest to everyone. It being a policy of the committee not to announce any program in advance, everyone was eager to see and hear what was coming next. The great themes that were the center of the various sessions were, “The World and Its Opportunities,” “The Great Religions of the World,” “The Latent Capacities of the College Men and Women of America,” “The Need of the World for the Gospel,” and in addition there was always present the call for consecrated lives for sacrificial service. If one great lesson can be picked out of the convention it is probably “The world needs men. There is a place in the world for each of us. It is the duty of each of us to find that place.”

It would be impossible to do more than give the names of a few of the speakers. Of course, John R. Mott and Robert E. Speer were the leaders. In addition, we find Robert F. Wilder, the founder of the movement, and J. Ross Stevenson, vice-chairman of the movement. Other speakers were G. Sherwood Eddy, of India; J. T. Robertson, of Boston; David Porter, senior secretary of the Student Y. M. C. A. in the United States; Miss Louise Holmquist, leader of American Y. W. C. A.; Geo. E. Haynes, in behalf of his own race, the American Negro; Dean Brown, of Yale; Bishop MacConnell, of Denver; Dr. James Endicott, of Toronto; J. Campbell White, of New York; W. H. Foucks, leader of the New Era Movement of the Presbyterian Church; James I. Vance, of Nashville; Robt. A. Hume, of India; Samuel M. Zwemer, of Arabia, and other speakers of national and international reputation.

Two other features of the convention must not be forgotten. Each afternoon there were held sectional conferences — Thursday, according to countries; Friday, according to kind of work; Saturday, according to denominational affiliation, and Sunday two great mass meetings for men and women. The great outstanding feature of these conferences is the memories that delegates will have—not of visions—but of actually seeing men of Macedonia pleading, “Come over and help us.” One of these was none other than Paul Kona Mauri, the Billy Sunday of Japan. During the hours between the sessions, every person approached was willing at all times to render any service possible that would add to the comfort of the delegates.

DR. W. A. WITHERS ELECTED PRESIDENT OF CHARLOTTE

Dr. W. A. Withers, ’83, vice-president of the State College of Agriculture and Engineering, has been elected president of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. to succeed Dr. W. S. Rankin, who resigned his office because of the press of other duties.

Heaven smiled her blessing in fair weather, and what the people of Des Moines called a warm spell with the temperature ranging from 10 below zero at night to 10 or 12 above.

Rev. T. P. Johnston, ’14, has moved from Welch, W. Va., to Christiansburg, Va., where he is pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

Elegance and Character are Marked Features in Our NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain the eminence of elegance, and the tailoring is handled in so smart a manner as to ensure absolute shape-permanence and grace in fit and drape. We welcome a visit to this young men’s section where the fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK” HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS

THE TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE

Lingle Clothing Co. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

OUR STOCK IS COMPLETE

Suits, Overcoats, Hats, Caps and Raincoats. Get yours now; avoid the holiday rush. Every garment represents the newest models, colors, and styles from Fifth Avenue.

203 W. Trade St. “LOOK FOR THE SIGN” B. A. Lingle. D. A. Presley.

It Pays to Advertise Provided You Advertise in The Davidsonian