THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

TO THE WEARERS OF THE “D” On the Gridiron

Well, bunch—don’t ever get it into your head that those boys laid down last week. It was just a case of not being able to stand up under the terrific hammering of the Golden Tornado. Fellows—that’s the worst Davidson has been beaten as long as the inhabitants of this quiet and peaceful village can remember. One of our hayseed celebrities who has been here for 20 years, says it is the largest score piled up against a Wildcat team since he came here.

Well—one consolation is that the next game will find the whole varsity team off the injured list and those five missing names in last week’s line-up will be back again.

Thanks Fresh—you’ve got the right spirit. Let’s have some more. There is always room in these columns for original, peppy and interesting articles.

Listen to This.

As a result of Washington and Lee’s 6 to 0 victory of the Wildcats two weeks ago, Coach Raferty of the Generals, makes the following statement:

“Washington and Lee had a hard fight with the Wildcats because the Generals were not well prepared, with only 10 days’ practice and two days scrimmage behind them.” He also goes on to praise the work of Davidson’s eleven and in conclusion says, “Had the Generals been up to the standard for this time of the season they should have beaten Davidson by 2 or 3 touchdowns, and on the basis of first downs made, the Generals showed up at least four touchdowns better.”

Fellows—this is not the true spirit of Washington and Lee or of its athletic teams. Never before have we heard her coaches offer an excuse for winning by such narrow margins as the two field goals in the game of two weeks ago. Don't hold the above quotations against the clean name that Washington and Lee has firmly established with us in our former intercollegiate contests. There was no need for an “excuse,” on Coach Raferty’s part. It wasn’t the team’s fault that they were only gotten together ten days before their initial game. Also everyone knows that the Generals have not the material back from last year’s whirlwind eleven, which by the way only won from the Wildcats by a 7 to 0 score. If the assumption is true that they were four touchdowns better than Davidson, on a basis of first downs made—why did they not produce a first down when within the shadows of our own goal posts, and incidentally score at least “one” of those four touchdowns. So cut this gossip out on the campus, that Washington and Lee said this and said that. “THEY DIDN'T.”

On to Charlotte Saturday. Let’s take the old Queen City by storm and everything that goes with it—Wake Forest included. The Baptists are putting out a stellar brand of football this season, and will no doubt furnish plenty of fight. Get your pencils out and dope the following statistics: Georgia Tech 44, Wake Forest 0. Georgia Tech 66, Davidson 0. Now wait—don’t get down in the mouth. Listen to this: Wash. and Lee 27, Wake Forest 0. Wash. and Lee 6, Davidson 0. That ought’er get ’em.

THIS YEAR’S QUINTET TO BE A WINNER Prospects Bright for Excellent Season of Basketball.

The prospects are bright this year for the best basketball team that Davidson has had since the “Dutch and George” combination, which always put Davidson on top. Although the season is several months away, the followers of the court game are looking forward with much hope for Davidson to again conquer all rivals. The Varsity will have a very hard schedule, including three trips of three games each. The first trip into Virginia where the Wildcats will meet U. of V., W. & L., and V. M. I. Following this trip into the Old Dominion, the Davidson five tackles three teams from the Old North State on their floors. Next they invade South Carolina. It will be of great interest for most students to learn that nine games will be played on the local floor. This fact will be of greatest importance and value to Coach Hengeveld’s proteges, if theStudent body will back the Wildcats to the limit. Among the reasons for the high hopes of the Red and Black supporters is the fact that Coach Hengeveld is again to have charge of the squad. Four of last year’s varsity will again don the Red and Black uniform. These are Captain L. Schenck, Roberts, Romefelt, and Streibeck. Also, several prominent varsity prospects are John Schenck, captain of last year’s Clemson five, and Norman Sheppard of the Carolina Freshman team. Many of last year’s scrubs will again give the varsity men a hard fight for their places.

SPECIAL TRAIN TO TAKE STUDENT BODY TO CHARLOTTE

Saturday promises to be a red-letter day for Davidson and especially for the student body. Classes will be suspended at eleven fifteen, and the entire student body, arrayed in their “gay rags” and with “pennants galore,” will migrate on the eleven fifty Dinkey to Charlotte. Special coaches will be added to the train to accommodate the students accompanied by the band, and an unlimited amount of push and pep to support the gridiron heroes. All of the old men remember the visit last year to the Queen City and also to the Twin City with a great deal of pleasure. With an increased number in the student body, there is promise of enough spirit to show the inhabitants of Charlotte and the followers of Wake Forest just what Davidson loyalty is. The students are counting on giving their team such backing that they will be well started on a series of victories when the day has been won. A special train will leave Charlotte at eleven o'clock to convey the students back to Davidson, thus giving them plenty of time after the game to enjoy a square meal and see all the sights of the city. Pep! Pep! Pep! That's the slogan.

SEVERAL MEETS TO BE ARRANGED FOR GOLF TEAM

All the world’s a golf course and all freshmen merely caddies. More than a usual amount of interest is being shown in golf this year, and every afternoon the course is thronged with ardent players of all ages and descriptions. Although the links are not yet in ship shape condition, they will be by the end of the week. Much credit is due to Dr. Arbuckle for his interest and zeal in this matter, and he deserves the thanks of the entire student body for his untiring labors on their behalf. This is the first year that golf has been under the supervision of the Athletic Association, and the whole student body is eligible to play. It is hoped that they, one and all, will take advantage of the opportunities offered them. A committee has been appointed by Dr. J. M. Douglass to decide the qualifications for a letter. A low ball match has been arranged with Salisbury, and Messrs. Houston, White, and Harry Sample may be counted on to take care of their end of the matter. Other matches are soon to be scheduled not only with teams in this state but also in South Carolina and Virginia. The majority of these games will be played in the Spring, which gives everyone ample time to get in good shape. The advantages of golf are too numerous to mention and must be soon realized by even the most casual observer. From a health standpoint, it may be said that the lame, the blind, and the halt all play golf; judging by appearances, especially the blind. Clubs, balls, and other implements of war may be secured from the Macamac Company at their usual moderate and reasonable prices.

The Advertisers In This Paper Are Responsible for Four-Fifths of Its Expenses. PATRONIZE Them.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Fall Sports---
Are now on with the passing of baseball.
We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting Goods. Call or write us.
Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3246

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, October 14th, 15th, and 16th

OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Case

ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS

SHERMAN AND ROSE
Unique Variety Dancers

KEEFER AND ALBERS
Eccentric Comedy

SAM LEIBERT AND COMPANY
A Revival of the World-Famous Comedy Playlet: "The End of the World"

MARGARET FORD
Singer of Songs of Today

THE PRINCETON FIVE
Mirthful Music Makers