8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1920.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
J. L. DOUGLAS, Vice-President
J. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
W. B. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. McPETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

October Mid-Month Columbia Records NOW ON SALE HERE
Write us for new record list, and come in and hear your favorite music. Mail orders shipped same day order is received.
W. T. McCOY & CO.
THE COLUMBIA STORE
209-211 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?
W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers
Rock Hill, S. C.
J. P. QUARLES, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

THE GARBER-DAVIS Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras
GARBER-DAVIS NOVELTY SOCIETY ORCHESTRA
PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS
JAN GARBER, Owner and Director
E. PAGE YARBROUGH, Business Manager
Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

Have You Sent in Your Subscription?

DAVIDSON'S FIRST CHAUTAUQUA
(Continued from page 1)
weather-riddled old tent being no longer suitable under such terrific bombardment of the elements, recourse was had to the redoubtable Hall of Shearer, within whose spacious walls both performers and audience found luxurious comfort.

Dr. Kenne Thireets and Dr. Darby.
In the afternoon he discoursed finely and helpfully upon community problems, under the attractive title of “A Canary in a Coal Mine.” He compared the effect of poison gas in a coal mine to that of venomous individuals in the social group, urging the complete eradication of such disease-producing and progress-arresting members. As a means of doing this, and further, as the only means by which the community in which we live can be made such that we shall nowhere be ashamed to acknowledge it as our own, Dr. Darby advanced complete co-operation, the true sire of progress.

In the evening Dr. Darby spoke upon “The Making of an American,” dwelling upon the form of our government, the basis of Americanism, differentiating between true and quasi-Americanism, and insisting upon a true conception of our ideals as the only safe road to greater national eminence.

The second half of both the afternoon and evening programs were rendered by the Oakley Concert Company. These skilled exponents of the art of symphony carried the audience at will with them through the light, care-free, fascination of the modern songs, and the deeper melodies of the great artists and grand opera. Long and insistent applause, encore after encore, Miss Eigly held the audience spellbound. It was evident to be seen the profound appreciation of the musical soul for the great compositions, while some of the more tender sons of the Old Dominion were seen to shed great tears of filial longing when the mellow strains of “Carry Me Back to Old Virginny” fell upon their ears.

Friday Night.
The Chautauqua ended with a most fitting climax on Friday night. After running through a program of unlooked-for excellence, the last night was most entertaining and instructive.Scarcely could be silenced by; ended with the hall in State's possession on her own 30-yard line. Due to the unusually hot weather, lightning information, Professor Flue proved to be a master of his subject. Most of the people of whom he spoke were more or less exotic in their customs. However, he showed us clearly that they were just “plain folks like you and me.” While Mr. Flue was introducing the Kraft trio, talented musicians, Dr. Arbuckle arose and made a few remarks on this and the next Chautauqua. That Davidson would have the contract already signed by 32 prominent citizens. Good music was next given by the Kraft trio, and after this, the program was brought to an end. They rendered several selections of popular songs and recitations, which were well received. Mr. Kraft and his clarinet were especially appreciated. The “Star-Spangled Banner” and “O Davidson” were used as a fitting close.

WILDCATS BOW BEFORE BRAWN
(Continued from page 2)

Speaking on a subject of most enrapturing attention with her beautiful voice, another one in 1921 was assured by Everhart.

C. Brady Floyd - LG - Romefelt
Weathers - LT - Hammett
Lawrence - LE - Schenck
Faucette - Douglas
Gurley - RHI - Shepard, N.
Pierson - LHB - Cassell
Parks - FB - McFadden

Touchdowns: Parks, Faucette, Kirkpatrick. Goals from touchdowns: Gurley (2). Goal from field: Gurley. Substitutes: For State: McCoy, Bostian, Hill, Massey, Parks, Ellerbe, Barbour, Strong, Silverman, Johnson, Smith. For Davidson: Moore, Poe, Massey, Shepherd, G., Shaw, Carter, Briggs, Field.

PROF. J. M. WILSON BRINGS MESSAGE TO STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)

Of Hangchow, there are five self-supporting native churches, and in four of these are pastors who have received their training at Hangchow Christian College. This is some of the part the college is taking in meeting its opportunities. “Yet, it is not to the past, but to the future that we are looking in China,” said Mr. Wilson. “The Chinese love and respect education as probably no other people. Their minds are open to, and their hearts appreciate America’s efforts to help them. Yet here at Hangchow is the only college in a province of over 17 million people. Moreover, in the past, the Northern Presbyterian Church has borne almost four-fifths of the expense and work of this college. The opportunity lies now before the Southern Presbyterian Church; it must awake and meet this opportunity, or else God will have to try again through some other agent.”

George M. Robson, ‘19, who has been assisting Coach Ghey, left on Wednesday to enter the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania. There were many substitutions on both sides, and each team used from 18 to 22 men.

“Doc” McConnell, ’20, spent a few days on the Hill last week, leaving Wednesday to enter Jefferson Medical College at Philadelphia.

Line-up:
N. C. State — Position — Davidson
Kirkpatrick - REL - Miley
Ripple - RT - Davis
McKinney - RG - LaFar

PARKS-BELK COMPANY
Concord, North Carolina

THE SHOPPING CENTER
Headquarters for Ready-to-Wear, Millinery, Dry Goods, Clothing, Shoes, School Books, and Supplies

30 BIG BUSY BELK STORES
Everything Costs Less at Parks-Belk Company

Special invitation to visit our Big Store. Visit our Ladies’ Rest Room when you are in our city shopping.

We Also Announce
OUR GREAT HARVEST SALE
Beginning Sept. 30. Greatest values ever offered in Concord.
We Lead, Others Follow
First to Reduce Prices