THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1920.

- BY J.M. DUNLAP -

Oh, Where?

Oh where! Oh where! have my dirty clothes gone?
Oh where! Oh where! could they be?
I sent them down to Helpers’ joint,
But they didn’t come back to me.

A man in New York rides around in a car that cost $50,000—
That’s class.
Some folks try to talk to Mars—
That’s foolish.
Buy a fresh cap for fifteen cents and sell it for a dollar and a half—
That’s business.

A holiday every football game—
That’s ambition.
An absence means a loss in grade—
That’s tough.

The Davidsonian is the best college weekly in the South—
That’s the truth.
We never tell anything but the truth—
That’s a lie.

Free Verse.
(It don’t cost nuthing.)

A Fresh one day last night,
Sat standing on his side,
The room was dark with electric light
And he slept awake while he cried,
So standing there in his head of woe,
He laughed his pitiful cry,
And taking a handkerchief in his toe,
He wiped a sneeze from his eye.
Ain’t it awful, ain’t it awful.

Graceful.

FOV. Long, Critic of Phi. Society in his criticism last meeting, said—
“Mr. Roberts assumed an unbecoming position with his hands stretched forward and leaning on his hind leg.”

Information.
“What Englishman was a close friend of Emerson?”
“Cop” Johnson—“Wutarch.”

Fresh Weldon—“Did you bring me anything to eat?”
Keith—“No, I didn’t take you to raise.”
Fresh W.—“Looks like you did, the way you’ve been paddling me.”

A group of Sophs have organized a new Uplift Society. All new members must come from the freshman class. The
initiation ceremony is a secret.

Yes, What?
What has become of the old-fashioned fresh who didn’t speak until he was spoken to, and who said, “Yes, sir”
and “No, sir?”

When your girl won’t write but once a month—
That’s sad.
The fresh class is the best class on the Hill—
That’s bull.

“Speaking of bathing in famous springs,” said the tramp tourist, “I bathed in the spring of ’86.”

Modern Motive Might

MOUNTAINS, miles and minutes give way before electricity, the magic motive power. Properly applied, it drives giant locomotives across the
continental divide, tows ocean liners through the Panama Canal, or propels huge ships.

Through good light, safe signals, and illuminated highways, it is making travel better and safer and also is increasing the
usefulness of transportation methods on land, sea or in the air.

In short, electricity is revolutionizing transportation, making it quicker, safer, more economical and reliable in all sorts of weather.

And back of this development in electric transportation, in generating and transmitting apparatus as well as motive mechanisms, are the
co-ordinated scientific, engineering and manufacturing resources of the General Electric Company, working to the end that electricity may better serve.

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look up to date and new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency at the Powerhouse
L. A. ELLIOTT

See me for your feeds

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up to date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Wholesale Accessories

STICK and STAY STUCK
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats—anything made of rubber.
Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package
by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S.C.

OUR NEW HOME

DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results.
When in Charlotte we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer
on printing problems that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent

EVER-STICK PATCHING
“if you want it off, do not put it on”
