FOOTBALL ISSUE LAST ISSUE BEFORE CHRISTMAS Vol. VII. THE DAVIDSONIAN. FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 3, 1920. No. 13

THE SQUAD—Bottom row (left to right):

Initial Presentation of Wildcat Minstrels a Marked Success In Spite of Torrential Downpour Students Play to a Packed House—Prof. Erwin Deserves Great Credit for His Work as Director—Many Visitors Present

Wildcat Minstrels! One of the greatest dramatic successes ever shown in Davidson was the Wildcat Minstrel Show which made its bow before a packed house on last Saturday night in Shearer Hall. Davidson is indeed entering a new era when such delightful and entertaining programmes as that presented come to take the place of the commonplace, time-worn Senior Speaking. The features of the occasion were the varied musical numbers which were presented in such excellent style and finish. The curtain rose promptly at 8 o'clock, opening with the Grand Minstrels, which was the first number. Carl H. Long, of Winston-Salem, was the interlocutor, and expressed very ably the dignity generally attached to that office. In direct contrast were the ludicrous sights as presented by the five gaily bedecked end men. Fred Thompson, Bilt Bogert, Cop Johnson, Bill Carr, and Bob McLeod took care of the humorous part with great style. At convenient intervals between jokes, songs were interspersed with great effectiveness. “That Colored Jazzboray,” sung by Frank Law, supported by the chorus, made a big hit with the audience. Carl J. Matthews, the John McCormick of the college, gave the well-known love lyric, “For You Alone.” Fred Thompson just had to sing of the “Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gave to Me,” and o0-00-oo—they were some blues! The Wildcat Quartette, consisting of Bill Carr, Frank Law, Ted Jones, and Charlie Vance, gave some typical negro “close harmony” selections of the bones and moon variety. A. V. Gibson resurrected some old negro plantation ballads and made his banjo fairly hoop out their melodies. The first act ended when Bill Bogert (Continued on page 10)

This Year’s Eleven Reflects Credit on Davidson In Spite of S.I.A.A. Rulings and Injuries, Coach Grey's Men Make Excellent Record

The Wildcat football season which has just closed, has brought much honor upon the fair name which Davidson holds in Southern football circles. The eleven stacked up against the strongest teams of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. A creditable showing was made in every game, with the possible exception of the Georgia Tech affair, where Coach Grey was forced to use second and third string men in his backfield. The team won five and lost five. Three of the games lost were by lone points, showing that a terrific fight was put up to the last ditch. In two of these games, four of the cogs of the Red and Black machine were missing because of the S.I.A.A. rulings which disqualified four Varsity performers. The season opened up with the three hardest games of the schedule. In the opening game at Riddick Field in Raleigh, Coach Bill Fetzer’s lads from N. C. State got away with a 23 to 0 victory. Next week the team journeyed up to (Continued on page 10)

Famous Explorer to Be Students Fortunate in Opportunity to Hear Samuel Phillips Verner

Davidson College and community are to have an address on December 6th by Samuel Phillips Verner, the veteran American explorer of the African and American Tropics, scientist, sanitarian, author, and business administrator. Mr. Verner has made four expeditions to Central Africa. On the first, he carried help to Dr. Sheppard, the Presbyterian missionary at Luebo on the Kasai River, and then explored the Upper Kasai, making known to the world the famous Bakuba king, Ndombe, discovering a settlement of the pygmies, was nearly killed by a fall into a game pit, suffered forty attacks of malarial fever, and barely escaped being killed by savage Baschilele. On the second, he brought a group of the pygmies to America, the (Continued on page 10)

WHAT, WHEN, ANDWHERE
Friday—6:45 p.m., Davidson Reporters’ Club meeting. 7:30 p.m., Concert by Davidson Band.
Saturday—6:45 p.m., Senior Literary Societies. 6:45 p.m., Movies: Charles Ray in “Egg-Crate Wallop.” 8:00 p.m., Second show of movies.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Classes. 6:15 p.m., “Y” Service. 7:00 p.m., Junior Literary Society.
Monday—7:30 p.m., Address by Samuel Phillips Verner, Shearer Hall.
Tuesday—8:00 p.m., Intercollegiate Debate; Davidson vs. Randolph-Macon, Shearer Hall.
Tuesday, Dec. 14—Examinations Begin.
Wednesday, Dec. 22—Home Sweet Home.

Romefelt, Brady, LaFar, Carter, Hammett (Captain), Davis, Sizer, McFadden, Shepherd, W. S., Hemer, Shaw, Faison, Summers, and Dantzler. Upper row: Douglas, Bethea, Cassell, Sorrelle, Clary, Coach Grey, Long, Irwin, Dick, Richarde, and Field. Photo by McIlwaine.

Purple Hurricane Defeats Fiercely Here Next Week!
Fighting Wildcats Turkey Day Contest
One Bad Quarter Loses for Davidson—Furman Completely Outplayed Throughout Second Half—Hammett, Bethea, Hammett and Cassell Star for Red and Black

“Drive it over, Wildcats!” “How much time left?” “Give it to Bethea!” These and similar entreaties came from the 50 loyal Davidson students who journeyed to Greenville on Turkey Day to see the “Hurricane” battle the “Wildcats.” At the end of two and a half hours of hard fighting, the Purple and White came off the field victorious for the first time in the history of the two schools.

B. W. Romefelt Named as Captain of 1921 Football Team
Election Held at Banquet in Greenville Following Furman Game

A very successful football season for the Red and Black machine was fittingly closed with a delightful Thanksgiving banquet at The Imperial Hotel, Greenville, S.C., on last Thursday evening at 7 o'clock. The guests of the Athletic Association, consisting of all the members of the football team and about ten honored guests, among whom were Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas, Miss Blake, of Greenwood, S.C., Misses Sarah Miller and Evelyn Connell, of Converse College, and other charming ladies, gathered around a well-appointed and appropriately decorated banqueting table. Covers were laid for 36 guests. The gathering was made up of a very merry crowd and was in keeping with the holiday spirit throughout.

After a delicious nine-course dinner was served, toasts were responded to by all of the football men, who reviewed the happenings of the past season, apparently undaunted in spirit because of (Continued on page 7)

The field was in fine condition and the weather was perfect, just cold enough to put a snap into the players. The large crowd began to gather early and fully 3,500 people let out a roar when McManaway kicked off to Cassell. The score would indicate that though the game was close and hard-fought, Furman had the better of the argument all the way through. However, a close examination of the game will leave much room for doubt. In the first quarter, the two teams battled up and down the field without either side proving dangerous. Furman did succeed in bringing the ball to Davidson’s 20-yard line, but lost it on a fumble. The second quarter was all Furman’s. On an exchange of punts, McFadden’s punt struck Douglas on the 12-yard line. This gave the ball to Furman on her own 20-yard mark. Starting from this point, the “Hurricane” swept straight up for a touchdown. It took 22 line bucks, end-runs, and cut-back plays before Rhames, when Davidson's line held like a stone wall, slipped around left end for a touchdown. Except for Rhame’s 20-yard run on an off-tackle play, no gains of over eight yards were made. The Wildcats fought hard but did not seem to be able to stop the Purple backs until after they had gained three or four yards. Speer kicked goal and the scoring ended. The Hornets seemed satisfied with their (Continued on page 2)

HERE'S to the SCRAPPIEST TEAM ON EARTH--THE WILDCATS!