THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Christian R. RICHARDS EXPLAINS PLAN OF SALVATION
Gives Differences Between Belief and Faith.

“Belief,” said Dr. Richards in his sermon last Sunday, “is acknowledging that a bridge is sound. Faith is walking out
upon it.” He said that there were thousands of persons all about us who would acknowledge that Christ was the
Son of God and that He came to earth to save us from sin, but He showed that mere intellectual
belief was not sufficient. The sermon was intended to give a short concise idea of the plan of salvation, especially
for the benefit of those who had just signified their desire to unite with the Church as a result of
Dr. Weatherford’s evangelistic campaign. A meeting of the session was called after church to receive these young men.

Dr. Richards showed that mere intellectual assent or codes of morals were not enough to save a soul. He said
that faith must take the deeper form of true seeking after Christ. As an outward sign of their resolution to
become Christians, he urged all who had not done so to unite themselves with the Church.

Activities
J. Wilson Smith Tells of World Opportunities.

“If I stood at the parting of the ways and could choose my life work over again I would make
the same decision I made 15 years ago, though maybe not for the same reasons,” were the words with which
Mr. J. Wilson Smith prefaced his talk last Sunday night at the “Y” meeting. Having served as a Y. M.
C. A. secretary for a decade and a half, first as a local secretary in his home town of Norfolk
and then as a state secretary in North Carolina, Mr. Smith had a message straight from the shoulder for every
man present. Explaining that he was not a preacher and would not preach a sermon, but would give a few
simple facts and statements from the point of view of a layman, he went on to give the reason for
his opening sentence.

“In the first place, I am absolutely convinced that the world needs Christianity as never before, the warring nations of
Europe, this country, the great mission fields, all need Christ today and forever.”

Mr. Smith closed by telling the need of Christian workers on the Mission fields today. In China alone, there is
a need of 16 Y. M. C. A. workers a year, and last year only five answered the call. There
is a vast amount of work to be done, but the workers are not forthcoming fast enough.

CORNELIUS SHOWS IMPROVEMENT

Cornelius Sunday School led the “Y” Sunday Schools Sunday with a 20 percent increase in attendance. This Sunday School is
held in the Presbyterian Church. The “Y” sends four regular teachers, Burney, J. F. Clark, D. R. Freeman, and Wool
every Sunday to assist in teaching the lesson. The other Sunday Schools which reported were: Caldwell, 52 pupils; 5 teachers.
Mill, 40 pupils; 4 teachers. Oak Grove, 32 pupils; 3 teachers. Shearer, 80 pupils; 7 teachers. There was no report
from Brawleys.

Sunday School Teachers: You will be interested to know that the library and reading room can help you to make
your schools more interesting and efficient. The lesson for next week can be found in the Christian Observer, Presbyterian Standard
and Monthly, also in several of the daily papers. Billy Sunday will be in Jacksonville, Fla., for a series of
meetings beginning November 7. Cornelius; Moody Bible are calling for him.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE CHURCH REPRESENTED AT SYNOD

Davidson College Church had five of her members at the meeting of the Synod in Wilmington October 26, 27, 28.
Dr. Richards, who is a member of the Committee on Evangelism, was one of the speakers. The other representatives were:
Mr. J. Wilson Smith, Mr. J. F. Clark, Mr. D. R. Freeman, and Mr. Wool.

EVERYBODY OUT TO HEAR DWIGHT SUNDAY NIGHT

Dwight Chalmers, '20, will speak to the fellows at the “Y” Sunday night. He needs no introduction, for he has
been vitally connected with every activity on the Hill for the past four years, and is known to everyone for
his enthusiasm and friendliness. Dwight will have a live, wide-awake message for every man on the Hill, and it is
reasonable to expect every fellow to be out at six-thirty, Sunday night to show him that the Davidson student body
still has the “pep.”

A DISMAL FUTURE.

“With few exceptions,” says J. Fort Newton in a letter to the Christian Register, of Boston, “The Churches in New
England are almost empty, and all the churches are declining, not only in actual members, but in influence and power.
This began before the war, and goes on unarrested. The fault lies largely in the pulpit, and unless there is
a different preaching, the future is dismal.” If the fault lies in the pulpit, as the article says, it is
time that strong young men, whose vision of Jesus Christ is not dimmed by modernism, should step into the breach
and save the day.popular favor and money, to step forward with the life-giving and all-sufficient Gospel of the Man of
Galilee, and lead men and women back to God. If you do not know where your home church stands as
to total membership see this week’s Christian Observer. * * * The World Outlook has a very interesting article about
“A Great Lumber King and Steamship Owner who believes in God’s help in Business.” * * * What do you
think about advertising religion? Read in the World Outlook what it has done for Michigan. * * * Will women
be our future preachers? The Literary Digest gives an article on “Woman’s Progress Toward the Pulpit.”

LIBRARY NOTES.

Among new books recently received at the Library are: “The Conquest of the Old Southwest,” Archibald Henderson. A story of
migration to south and west of transplanted European people through the course of the 18th Century. “The Great Modern American
Stories,” Compiled by William Dean Howells. This is a well-known celebrated collection of short stories by American authors such as
Mark Twain, Bret Harte, and many others of equal fame. “Making the Movies,” Ernest A. Dench. This book treats of
the making of Motion Pictures from the ground up. The author brings in each step in a remarkably interesting manner.
“Representative One-Act Plays by American Authors,” Edited by Margaret G. Mayorga. About 25 one-act plays comprise the collection in this
volume. Some new, some old. The book is divided into chapters under such heads as, Fantasy, Poetic Drama, Morality, etc.
“Elements of Retail Salesmanship,” Paul Wesley Ivey. The advantages of knowing the goods, the customer, and the best selling processes
are brought out in the best possible manner. “A Straight Deal or The Grudge,” Owen Wister. This is a book
centered about the World War and the methods of the former Kaiser of carrying on war.

DELTA PI KAPPA.

The Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity held its regular business meeting on last Tuesday night in the Bachelors’ Hall. The
literary program was dispensed with and the various constructive aims of the organization were discussed at length. It is the
fraternity’s earnest hope that more speakers of the Jasper C. Hutto type can be secured and that a general interest
in journalism will be created. After the meeting a feed was enjoyed by all of the members.

“In old Babylonia,” we are told, “they didn’t print their literature, they baked it.” Editorially speaking we “parch” it, while
occasionally we get “roasted.”

LIFE INSURANCE---A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE
and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE, GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL---ONE MILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE High Class Moving Pictures Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning, Repairing, Moving CHAS. M. STIEFF,
Inc. ESTABLISHED 1842 M. D. MANNING, Manager 219 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte,
N. C. A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier C. W. JOHNSON, Vice-President T.
S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00 R. A. DUNN, President

S. & W. CAFETERIA Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices 20 West Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS” Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any
disability one day or more---no limit. Full death benefits in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance
Company 1016-18 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C. Openings for live men as agents.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S. Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY
and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should
have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got? W.
J. RODDY & CO., Managers J. P. QUARLES, Associate Manager
