THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920. J. M. DUNLAP, Editor.

Have You Noticed It?
The campus is so fresh and green you'd think it was spring.

Our Motto: Freshmen should be raised right—the ceiling’s the limit.

Page the Prof. Who teaches Schedule? We need a course in that.

Ain’t those Chambers radiators fine? Steam heat in Chambers? Sure, you get up steam carrying in coal.

Hang Out the Crepe. Our girl has kicked us.

Who'd ’o Thunk It? We see an ad that says “Put iron soles on children’s shoes and reduce the H.C.L.” That’s what we call, “horsing” the children.

Extra. The Hammett-Fricker fracas of last evening reads like the Dempsey-Miske bout. Hammett starts by landing Fricker one on left jaw. Fricker swings six to left head. Fricker places three fast ones on stomach and one on jaw. Hammett staggers. Fricker lands twelve on head, alternating right and left. Fricker bangs out two upper-cuts and six on ribs. Fricker lands fast one on nose and Hammett falls. Hammett takes count of five. Hammett staggers to feet and is knocked down by hot one right eye. Victorious Fricker lifts the vanquished warrior to his feet after the count of ten. Fricker’s dream busts.

Many a man who styles himself a diplomat is called a plain liar by others.

Call the Ambulance. Newspaper headlines “Republican candidate spends busy Sunday—attends Church.” According to this he would work himself to death if he had to attend Davidson for a week.

You Tell ’Em. “Dearest why do you talk so much? Most folks who talk as much as you do get paid for it.” He—“May I call?” She—“Yes, if you won't do it too loud.”

Help! Although most folks think “fool” and “crazy” are synonymous, there’s a lot of difference between “being crazy about a girl” and “having a girl make a fool out of you.”

Plug ‘Em Up. If humming sounded to the person producing the disturbance like it does to those who listen, we believe there would be a lot less humming.

It's a poor elevator that won't work both ways. We figure that with the income tax in force the government owes us something.

Next week we will have a story entitled, “A Lost Opportunity” or “She Turned Me Down,” by William Minter, of the fresh class.

Heard at the Cornelius-Hoskins game: “Give him a runner, he looks like he’s going to hit.”

Is That It? J. P. Price hands out the information that Rumple now has three stories—Joe, Sam, and their kid brother.

He's A Bird. We have all seen the freshmen whom the local paper said was “handsome, attractive and brilliant” but we didn’t recognize him at first.

Voice downstairs—“What time is it?” Voice upstairs—“The clock’s run down.” V. D. S—“Not down here.”

The Salisbury Post carries the news about a boy who “was injured in an imaginary automobile accident.” That’s what we call letting your imagination run away with you.

The Way We Do, or Rules For Social Conduct. By W. M. and C. B.
1. When calling on ladies, carry an automobile.
2. In speaking, if she does not offer her hand, take it.
3. Remove all crushable articles from coat pockets.
4. If there is but one chair, the gentleman must take his seat first.
5. Avoid loud kissing and smash all street lights in vicinity.
6. Never rise to go and sit down again—stay down.
7. Be brave—faint heart never got good hug.
8. Should she refuse to faint, you can trip her up—that answers the same purpose.
9. Talk on subjects interesting to the young lady—(There is but one.)
10. When leaving, do not part abruptly, but with a short ceremony.

Notice! The Peanut Parcher wants the original wit and near-wit of the students. Write out your contribution, sign your name, and drop in box provided for their reception in No. 11 Chambers. Credit will be given for all items published. Thanx.

THE WINNING WAY. If you put a little lovin’ into all the work you do And a little bit of gladness and a little bit of you, And a little bit of sweetness and a...Little bit of song, not a day will seem too toilsome, not a day will seem too long, and your work will be attractive and the world will stop to look, and the world will see a sweetness like the tinklin’ of a brook in the finished job. And then the world will turn to look at you with a world’s appreciation of the things you've found to do. Just a little bit of lovin’ and a little bit of song, and some pride to sort of make it straight, and true and clean and strong; and the work that you're a-doin’, pretty near before you know, will have set the world a-talkin’. The little winds that blow will bring echoes of it to you, and you'll see that you have done more than you had dreamed or hoped for when the task was first begun; and you'll find the bit of lovin’ you have put into the same has come back to you in lovin’ and come back to you in fame. And them that strive for fame shall miss it—and that’s what they ought to do; but if you put some gladness and if you put some of you in the task that is before you and you put a bit of pride into it and you go at it glad of heart and eager-eyed, you will find the world is turnin’ pretty soon to look your way and you'll find that there's a sweetness in the task of every day. And the world will see your work and pretty soon will speak your name and you'll find you have found lovin’ and you'll find you have found fame. —Houston Post.

FAMILY NAMES.

“A great many family names represent the trades or occupations of our great-great-great grandfathers. John, the miller, and after that his descendants were known as Miller,” says Clifford Howard in an article on the meaning of names in the September number of Boys’ Life. “And Robert, the baker, started the family name of Baker. And thus we have many other familiar names—Carpenter, Mason, Taylor, Shoemaker, Brewer, Draper, Shepherd, Fisher, Hunter, Clark (clerk), Page, Harper, Singer and a whole lot more. But chief among them all is Smith. The reason there are so many Smiths today is because there used to be so many different kinds of smiths—blacksmiths, goldsmiths, silversmiths, coppersmiths, tinsmiths, locksmiths, arrowsmiths, and so on. Each, for short, was known simply as a smith; and each different kind of smith started his own family of Smith. In many cases if there was something very striking about a man—if he was very short or had red hair or had some peculiar trait or habit—it was used for starting a family name, and that's how we have such names as Little, Small, Ross (which means red), Black, Gray, White, Strong, Long, Longfellow, Whistler, Noble, Swift, Doolittle, Savage, Wise, and many, many more of the same kind.”

Literally True.

Brown—That new cook of ours makes everything out of the cook book.
Derby—Then that must have been one of the covers I tasted in the pie last night—Cornell Widow.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department. Has Lock Boxes for Rent. Your business is Solicited.
John I. Dew, Pres., W. G. Thompson, Cashier, J. B. Shearer, V.-Pres., J. E. Beard, Assistant Cashier.

A twist of the wrist and electricity lights cities and towns, turns the wheels of industry, or affords conveniences to millions of people. But let us follow the wire carrying this energy to its source and we find either a waterfall, a coal mine or an oil well. Much of the supply of fuel in this country is being used up rapidly while the power of water is running to waste. The rivers and streams of this country could, if properly harnessed, develop enough electric power to save 300,000,000 tons of coal annually. By studying nature’s forces—coal, oil and water—by applying them to machines, and finally by the perfection of apparatus to ensure uninterrupted power service under varying conditions, the General Electric Company is serving to make electric power cheaper, more plentiful and reliable.

At the Other End of the Wire

For the rivers 9$-331D