THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1920.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

ARGONNE ANEW, Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y. The name "Argonne" is used by courtesy of the Argonne Shirt
Co., Philadelphia.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Miss Eloise Martin and her house guests, Misses McGregor, Reynolds, and Grier have returned to Converse College, making the trip
in Dr. Martin’s car.

"CHINA DESERVES RESPECT, NOT SYMPATHY," SAYS PROF. WILSON.

"New China," said Mr. Wilson, last Sunday at the morning church service, "deserves respect, not sympathy." We hear much of
the deplorable social and sanitary conditions, but few realize that many of the younger generation are both physically and mentally
the equals of any other race. The speaker told of tennis, basketball, track, and even football in a land where
until recently all forms of bodily culture were despised. The students there take the rough work in football and basketball
with just as much grit as any and "always come back ready for more." Though not militaristic as a nation,
as individuals they display the highest form of courage and self-sacrifice as was shown in the recent "student strike." The
Chinese students have very highly trained minds and they all learn with extraordinary ease and swiftness. The Mission Schools are
very highly esteemed not only by the students themselves, but by the Chinese at large. The speaker told several incidents
in which the Chinese showed themselves even more willing to co-operate than the British government. "China," said the speaker, "will
soon be one of the most important nations on the globe. It is imperative that we do everything in our
power to influence her for good while the change is still going on." Many Davidson men, he said, should "come
out to this land of great opportunity and help in the great work."

SUNDAY SCHOOLS SHOW INCREASED INTEREST

The "Y" Committee on Christian Activities reports an increase of 12 1-2 per cent in the total attendance at the
Sunday Schools last Sunday afternoon. The 29 fellows who went out to teach seem to enjoy their work quite a
bit and are anxious to add to the total attendance of their schools. The following attendance was reported:
Brawley's 42 present, 5 teachers.
Caldwell 65 present, 6 teachers.
Cornelius 76 present, 5 teachers.
Mill 40 present, 3 teachers.
Oak Grove 17 present, 7 teachers.
Shearer Chapel 93 present, 6 teachers.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR SELECTS OFFICERS

Frank Toney of Soph Class Chosen as President.

The Young People’s Society of Christian Endeavor elected officers on Sunday, to serve for the coming six months. These are:
President, Frank Toney; Vice-President, Miss Evelyn Potts; Secretary, Miss Frances Johnson; Treasurer, Miss Elizabeth Potts. These four officers, together with
the chairmen of the various committees chosen by them, Lookout, Prayer-meeting, Social, Junior, Missionary, Efficiency, will constitute the executive committee
of the society.

TALENT SELECTED

Numbers Will Be Both Inspiring and Enjoyable—Season Ticket Sale Should Be Large.

The attractions which are to appear on the Lyceum course here this season have been announced. The various numbers have
been especially well selected and everything points to a large sale of season tickets for the course. The attractions were
secured from the well-known Redpath Lyceum Bureau, and this in itself is a guarantee of satisfaction. People are more than
eager this year for instructive, inspirational lectures and clean entertainment, and the splendid attractions to be heard here are sure
of a hearty reception. The numbers on the course are as follows:
First, October 11: Ralph Bingham, America's Foremost Platform Humorist.
Second: The St. Claire Four—Sisters.
Third: The New York Glee Club.
Fourth: Six Swiss Singers and Yodlers.
Fifth: A "peppy" Orchestra. The last number has not been definitely arranged. This will be announced later.

Last year Redpath Lyceum was introduced at Davidson and was a phenomenal success. The townspeople and students were promised executivecommittee
meets each month, each officer and chairman making a written report of the work done during the past month. Each
member of the society is put on some committee in order that all may get the Christian Endeavor training.

The topic for next Sunday is “Our Church Privileges and Obligations.” The Scripture reference is Psalm 84:1-12. This will be
the monthly consecration meeting and each member is expected to answer roll-call with a verse of Scripture or personal testimony,
or send a message if obliged to be absent. The new executive committee will also be installed at that time.

The “Y” aims to use its Sunday night services in an effort to help the fellows make Davidson better. It
aims to present Christian living as a man-size job and Jesus Christ as God-man, who though tempted, conquered. Although the
list of speakers is not complete, the Devotional Committee has secured such men as Bob Miles, J. Wilson Smith, General
Secretary for Y. M. C. A. in North Carolina, Dr. Ernest Orr, of Charlotte, and Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Columbia,
S. C., and hopes to be able to secure other prominent men. This committee asks the co-operation of the whole
student body in two ways: First, it asks for suggestions as to subjects it would like to hear discussed and
speakers whom it would like to hear.

Remember that this is REDPATH LYCEUM which has an established reputation as the zenith in Chautauqua and Lyceum circuits. Season
tickets for the five numbers will be on sale Friday night. Reserve your $2.00 now and be ready when your
ticket is offered.

FACULTY ASSISTANTS.

The following is a partial list of the assistants for 1920-21:

Accounting—J. C. McCaskill.
Bible—S. M. Query, J. R. Walker.
Biology—J. H. McKeithan, D. H. Mahood, W. W. Roberts, J. S. Buchanan, Wildman.
English—J. E. Cassell, Gamble, W. E. Crane.
History—J. M. Richards.
Chemistry—M. W. Doggett, T. M. Lowry, C. E. Cunningham, L. E. Wooten.
Law—J. S. Brown, Jr.
Latin—J. C. Bailey.
Math—C. K. Brown.
Physics—D. P. Douglas, K. B. McCutchen, R. K. Shaw, J. P. Price, J. K. Price, W. W. Moore.
Spanish—H. White.
Absence Committee—W. P. Cumming, J. P. Price.

The community welcomes Mrs. Gibbs and her daughter, who will occupy the house used by Mrs. McNeill.

Applied Math.—J. M. Dunlap.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., writes insurance. He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has
every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

LIFE INSURANCE---A PROFESSION for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance
salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY, HOME OFFICE...
GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL... ONE MILLION DOLLARS.

PIEDMONT THEATRE
High Class Moving Pictures
Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano. Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning, Repairing, Moving. CHAS. M. STIEFF,
Inc. ESTABLISHED 1842. M. D. MANNING, Manager, 219 S. Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.

SAVE YOUR HAIR! Tono Scalpa stops hair from coming out by removing the cause—the dangerous dandruff germ. We absolutely guarantee
that Tono Scalpa will remove every trace of dandruff from your head and relieve itching of the scalp, or your
money will be refunded. TONO SCALPA The SCALP TONIC. Tono Scalpa also beautifies your hair. Tono Scalpa puts your scalp
in a healthy condition thereby promoting a new growth of soft, radiant, luxuriant hair. Give Tono Scalpa a trial. You
will be delighted with the results. MEN! Ask your Barber for a TONO SCALPA RUB.

THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR BIERMANS ENGRAVING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS” Our Multiple Protection Policy: Old Age, Total and Permanent Disability one day or more---no limit. Full
death benefit in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable. G. W. PATTERSON, Gen'l Agt. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1096-18
Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C. Openings for live men as agents.
