THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS TROON GAY THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES At the Powerhouse

Brady Printing Co. The College Printers If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it STATESVILLE, N. C.

STYLISH Clothes For Young Men Tailored out of the shops of Kuppenheimer and Fashion Park Brown’s Clothes have a dignified, youthful appearance that is obtainable only in the highest class of tailoring. You will like the new models. They are without fancy details, but strong and good. BROWN’S Inc. 34 S. Tryon St. The Young Men’s Shop

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE” Double Guarantee, Free Tuning and Liberal Selling Plan Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms “THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged Tuning, Repairing and Moving JOHN W. POST & CO. Main Ware rooms 209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C. Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

PROF. E. J. ERWIN RETURNS TO HIS ALMA MATER Former Davidson Student Now Holds Important Place On Faculty.

The great strides forward Davidson has made in the last few years have increased the number of men desiring the study of English and have necessitated the addition of an assistant to Dr. Shewmake in the English Department. Davidson has been fortunate in securing Prof. E. J. Erwin, an old Davidson man, to fill this important position.

Prof. Erwin graduated as Valedictorian of the class of ‘06, and received his M.A. in 1907. During his five years on the Hill he was active in literary circles, having written for “The Davidson Magazine” and “Quips and Cranks.” He was also prominent in literary society work, being president of the Philanthropic Society at one time, from which society he received a diploma for completing with honors the work prescribed. He also figured in fraternity life, being a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity and becoming a Mason after his college course.

After leaving Davidson he spent three years teaching at the McCallie School, at Chattanooga, Tenn., three years at De Witt Clinton High School, New York City, and six years in the department of English at The University of Mississippi. Having studied at Columbia University during the session of 1910-1912, and at Chicago during the past summer session, he is now taking up his work here.

Prof. Erwin has charge of part of the classes in English I and II, and is giving English V, which class has been formed to take the place of Public Speaking, and to give advice in composition writing. Prof. Erwin is a native of North Carolina, having been born at Morganton, N.C., and it is with a great deal of pleasure that the student body welcomes the return to Davidson in the capacity of an instructor of this Davidson man who knows something of the ideals and principles of the old college, learned as a student in its halls.

LITERARY NEWS

The following new magazines have been added to the reading room collection: “Littell’s Living Age,” “Travel,” “International Studio,” “La Science et la Vie,” “Modern Language Notes,” “Contemporary Review,” “World Agriculture,” and “Publications of Modern Language Association.”

Anyone interested in Shakespeare’s plays will be glad to learn that a handsome set, consisting of 13 of the principal plays, has been received at the library. This set of books is a revised edition of “The New Hudson Shakespeare,” by Ebenezer Charlton Black. Introduction and notes are given for each play.

Real Work Begins in Literary Societies Compulsory Voting is the Subject of the Year’s First Debates

Phi Society

The Phi Society was called to order on time by the president. After the roll call by the secretary, devotional exercises were conducted by D. W. Roberts. In the first regular debate of the year which followed, on the subject “Resolved, that the U.S. should adopt a compulsory voting system,” many and varied points were developed both by the affirmative upheld by W. K. McCain, A. F. Fricker, and F. W. Smith, in the order named, and the negative by G. N. Neel, J. F. Clark, and T. A. Freeman. But in the eyes of the judges, the negative side furnished the better proof hence won.the decision. Following closely on the heels of the debate was a splendid oration on the subject “Music” by D. R. Freeman. Debating ex-tempore on the subject, “Resolved that the hour of chapel should be moved,” C. W. Robinson on the affirmative side was unable to supersede J. C. Wool in the old line, consequently lost the decision of the committee. Due to the short time allowed for the meeting by the movies, the many interesting things prepared by the critics were necessarily omitted. The program as announced by the critic for the next meeting includes only members of the senior class, so for a truly good program Saturday night just drop in at the Phi Society. Under the head of business, several new men were enrolled as members and the supervisor's report included fines for several of the “high-knockers.”

Eu Society. The Eumenean Literary Society opened its weekly meeting by the roll call and the reading of the last minutes. After which, devotional exercises were conducted by the president and Mr. Lowry. The subject for debate was resolved: “That the United States should adopt a system of compulsory voting.” The affirmative side of the question was upheld by Messrs. Mahood and McIlwaine while the negative boasted as its supporters Messrs. J. P. Price and Paul Meng. An oration on “The Future Davidson University” was delivered by Mr. P. D. Miller, followed by a declamation entitled, “Greetings to Armenia,” by Ogden. The criticisms were made by Mr. Much acumen was shown in the manner in which he pointed out the fallacies and defects of the speakers. All of the above-mentioned gentlemen displayed marked forensic ability and the way in which “Taurus” was spread about brought back fond memories of Mr. R. L. L. Liston and his Demosthenian style of oratory. These silvery-tongued scions of rhetoric waxed eloquent and much credit must be given to the Public Speaking course at Davidson that can produce such finished orators in every sense of the word.

DELTA PI KAPPA HOLDS FIRST REGULAR MEETING
Interesting Program Rendered. The Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity held its first regular meeting in Pi Kappa Alpha hall on last Wednesday night. A very interesting program was carried out. Carl J. Matthews read a very detailed paper on the founding of The Davidsonian in 1914, by the class of 1915. The phenomenal growth of “The Livest Wire on the Hill” was featured, showing the development from a small four-column four-page (Continued on page 4)

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

For Nearly a Century, Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S.C.

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

STOP, LOOK and READ!
We carry a full line of Fancy Groceries, Feed Stuff, and all supplies, at the cheapest price. Come in and see us.
THE BLUE FRONT STORE (W. N. JOHNSON, SONS CO.)

Belk Bros... Sell It For Less
ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29th, through Saturday, October 9th, we inaugurate a new kind of Sale: “THE 1920 HARVEST SALE” All Men’s Clothing, Gents’ Furnishings, Hats, Caps, Shoes, Shirts--in fact every department in our Nine Big Floors participating. For 10 days this will afford you just the chance to make quite a good saving on that new Suit or new hat, or shoes. Come any day. Sale Continues for 10 days at Very Substantial Savings
Charlotte, North Carolina