6

The Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent. Your business is solicited.
Seba L. Deugiss, Pres., W. I. Thompson, Cashier
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., J. B. Beard, Assistant Cashier

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise. Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings. A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman, Room No. 13 Watts

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co. Expert Dyers and Cleaners, Charlotte, N. C. Agency 18 Watts

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

E. E. HOUGHTON WINS DECLAMATION CONTEST
EUMENEAN SOCIETY
Sixteen Aspiring Orators Deliver Varied and Excellent Speeches. Bailey, Ogden, and Bitzer Win Honorable Mention.

As regards both quantity and quality of work, the Eumenean Fresh-Soph Declamation was one of the most hotly contested events held in a long time. Sixteen frenzied speakers, alternately furious and pathetic, came and went ere the long program ended. There were four graveyard addresses, two courtroom speeches, three patriotic orations, two “classical” pieces, a war poem, and a number of others that defy classification. The decision was awarded to E. E. Houghton who gave a very thrilling courtroom address by Webster in which he described a singularly cold-blooded murder scene and demanded of the jury that they uphold the law. Honorable mention was made of Bailey, Ogden, and Bitzer.

W. W. Moore began the program with a humorous defense of a moonshiner. Richards then discussed the home and Ogden eulogized woman. H. H. Smith next delivered the “Flag Day Address.” This was followed by two funeral orations by McGukin and H. Morris on “Lafayette” and “My Brother” respectively. Two patriotic addresses were next, delivered by P. D. Miller and Z. Morris on the “New South” and “America’s Entrance into the War.” Houghton then gave his winning courtroom address, followed by Dunn with a war poem, “Flourette.” Sloan then gave an interesting discussion of “Americanization,” McLaughlin followed with a second rendering of the “Death of Lafayette.” Two versions of “Regulus to the Carthaginians” were next given by Bitzer and Price, separated only by Dick’s excellent address on the “Death of Jackson.” The program was then concluded by Bailey with one of the strongest speeches of the evening on “Shall the Statue of Lee stand in the Hall of Fame.” On the whole, the program was a very fine one indeed, and there is little wonder that the judges had great difficulty in awarding the decision.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY.
Lyceum and Mary Pickford Triumph Over Societies.

Again the Redpath Chautauqua and Mary Pickford have arrived at Davidson on the same Saturday night, and prevented the Literary societies from carrying out their arranged programs. For this reason, neither society was able to hold a meeting on last Saturday night (much to the deep regret of all the members). The Eumenean Society will have a joint meeting of its two sections on the 27th, next Saturday night, and the same program will be given as was planned for last time. It is urgent that all members be present, and especially those who have not been coming. They are given a cordial invitation! The debaters are expected to have good debates, since having two weeks of preparation, and the honored judges for the night will be from the Philanthropic Society. The meeting will be held this time regardless.

LIBRARY NEWS.
The Library has recently received the...Framed picture of Deane M. Orgain, '18, and Donald Wearn, ex-'19, both of whom died in the service. Mr. Orgain at Norfolk, Va., and Mr. Wearn in a hospital in France. Among new books recently received are the following: Theodore Roosevelt’s Letters to his Children; Employment Psychology, by Link; Principles of Business, Gurstenberg; The Fine Art of Photography, Anderson; Beekeeping, Phillips; How to Teach, Strayer; Meaning of Prayer, Fosdick.

PROFESSOR KIMBALL DELIVERS INSTRUCTIVE ADDRESS.
His Subject: Constitutional Obstacles to International Comity, Delivered in Attractive Professor Everett Kimball of Smith College, Northampton, Mass., spoke to the Davidson Polity Club last Thursday evening. Professor Kimball has been lecturing to the Polity Clubs throughout the South on international questions. Davidson was fortunate in having him and his address was both interesting and instructive. Speaking on the subject, “Constitutional Obstacles to International Comity,” Professor Kimball showed the relation between the various governments of the present-day democracies and the people who constitute these states. He also showed the relations between the governments of the sovereign independent states and the obstacles in the way of keeping this relation harmonious. The lack of popular control in our own and other democratic states was also discussed. This discussion was in line with the regular work of the Polity Club and it should be instrumental in securing a deeper and more sincere interest in international affairs.

The following list of publications may be found in the library reading room:
Popular Astronomy
Popular Science Monthly
Scientific American
Unpopular Review
Annals of the American Academy
Life
London Weekly Times
National Geographic Magazine
Century
Survey
Dial
Forum
Sewanee Review
Southern Atlantic Quarterly
North Carolina Booklet
Political Science Quarterly
Nature
North American Review
McClure’s
Everybody's
Atlantic
World’s Work
Outlook
Scribner's
Industrial Review
American
Bookman
Educational Review
Literary Digest
Independent
Harper’s Magazine
Popular Mechanics
School Review
Current Opinion
New Republic
School and Society
Field and Stream
Scientific Monthly
Hibbert Journal
American Economist
Library Bulletin
Missionary Survey
Our Monthly
Practical Eugenics
Silver Cross
Social Service Quarterly
Pan American Union
Presbyterian of the South
Presbyterian Standard
Christian Observer
Advocate of Peace
American Issue
Journal of Agricultural Research
Yale Review
Carter’s Weekly
Interchurch Bulletin
Union Seminary Magazine
Biblical Review
Review of the Far East
The Review
High School Journal
Southern Review
New Success

“I love you quite a lot,” said I, and trembled waiting her reply. It came! “That’s what they all say.” I answered cheerful as a lark: “Never mind my first remark; girls hear it every day.”

“Say, Ophelia, who was Pan?”
Ophelia Harte: “God of the shepherds.”
“And of what else?”
O. H.: “The sheep.”

We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS.
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
14 E. 4th St.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Reliable Equipment FOR Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42nd St., New York City.
We want Agents where we are not already represented.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE
New Spring Suits From the shops of "Society Brand"
Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection.
Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc.
The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street