THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C. For your events.

We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are
Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Rev. L. Cook Campbell, ex-'13, of Berkeley Springs, W. Va., has moved to Fayetteville, N. C.

Dr. William M. Shaw, '15, of Sumter, S. C., has charge of all X-Ray work at the Tourney Hospital, in
Sumter.

His parents were Robert Dowell and Rebecca Brevard. He was at Davidson for seven years in the preparatory department of
the college.

FRANKLIN BREVARD McDOWELL Former Mayor of Charlotte Was Member of Famous Class of '69.

Franklin Brevard McDowell is a native of Iredell county, N. C., although most of his life has been spent in
Charlotte. He comes of that sturdy Scotch-Irish race which did so much to build up North Carolina. Two Signers of
the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, Dr. Ephriam Brevard and Gen. Robert Irwin, were among his ancestors.

Mr. McDowell was a student at Davidson for seven years in the preparatory department of the college, then in the
college proper in 1865. Those were trying times of war and reconstruction, yet his class made a record for scholarship
which has never been equaled at Davidson. The twelve men who composed the class of '69 made an average for
the four years of 97.31.

After leaving Davidson, Mr. McDowell studied law at the University of Virginia, although he never practiced it as a profession.
As a member of the board of aldermen and as mayor for two terms, he helped lay the foundations of
modern Charlotte. It was during his administration that the first concerted effort at paving the streets was made. College street,
which had not been safe for ladies because of its saloons and undesirables, was cleaned up at the same time.
The $85,000 post office, which was only torn down a few years ago, was almost entirely due to his persistence
and tact in dealing with postal officials in Washington.

Mr. McDowell has been allied with several business interests of Charlotte. He was a director of the First National Bank
and of the Union National Bank. He was one of the charter members of the board of directors of the
Henrietta Cotton Mills, one of the largest and most successful corporations of its kind in the state.

It has been said that no North Carolinian can be a gentleman and be ignorant of the history of his
state. For many years Mr. McDowell was the president of the Mecklenburg Declaration Society. He has also written articles on
Colonial History and sketches of several Scotch-Irish neighborhoods.

North Carolina has not been the only scene of his endeavors, for Mr. McDowell has crossed the ocean several times.
In fact, he was abroad when the late war broke out. Davidson is justly proud of this alumnus of such
genuine culture and versatile ability.

The following Davidson men are now studying at the University of Virginia: F. A. Thomas, '20, medicine; W. D. Wylie,
ex-'20, medicine; F. L. Knight, ex-'20, medicine; J. B. Faison, ex-'15, medicine; J. W. McNair, ex-'22, engineering; J. C. Watkins,
ex-'13, law; B. King, ex-'20, academic; M. W. Gibson, ex-'19, academic; F. A. Hill, ex-'15, academic; W. H. Rogers, '15,
graduate department. King is singing in the Glee Club; Watkins is playing high-class scrub football; Hill is teaching Spanish; Rogers
is teaching English.

Among the alumni who saw us give N. C. a trouncing Saturday were: L. L. McAllister, '20; James Carson, '16;
“Woody” McKay, ex-'14; “Pud” Cosby, ex-'15; Harvey Orr, ex-'17; T. W. Hawkins, '20; Charles Montcastle, ex-'18; Dr. L. T. Wilds,
'06; Charlie Angle, '18; R. R. Clarke, '19; D. I. McKeithen, '17; L. B. McKeithen, '19; “Pebble” Stone, '19; Bob
Richardson, '18; J. D. Watts, '19; D. R. Nimocks, ex-'22; “Turk” Shaw, '18; “Dong” Elliott, ex-'20; T. W. Cowan, '11;
E. D. Taylor, '11; C. M. Taylor, ex-'08; L. L. Wilson, '20; Lavins Thomas, '18; R. L. Black, ex-'20; A.
G. Oltman, ex-'20; W. I. (“Johnny”) Johnston, ex-'22; W. M. Fetzer, '06; A. Ted Cashion, '15.

DAVIDSON SPIRIT. From a Paper Read by Prof. Currie at Armistice Day Celebration.

One of the great systems of education was that of ancient Rome. Its purpose was to pass on to each
new generation the tradition and character of the old, and so perpetuate through the centuries the sterling virtues and lofty
patriotism of the Roman citizen. In order to obtain this much-desired end, they were accustomed to hold up before the
young for their emulation the lives of their illustrious living, and the deeds of their mighty dead.

With somewhat the same purpose I am here this morning, for it seems particularly fitting that on such an occasion
as this, when we are met together to commemorate the glorious ending of the recent world tragedy (in which the
sons of Davidson bore no mean part) and at the same time to celebrate the occasion of the founding of
our beloved college, we should contemplate for a brief while the lives of those who have gone before us. They
drank for a time at this fountain and then went their way. The college placed her stamp upon their lives,
and it is here, through them, that we find Davidson College, for here alone is her tangible achievement.

We hear much in these latter days of “The Davidson Spirit.” Is it a new thing that has only recently
begun to function, or is it as old as the college itself? A study of the lives of our alumni
reveals the “spirit” of Davidson as an ancient thing, something that was at work far in the past. It reveals
it also as a most desirable thing, something to be perpetuated far into the future.

My part in this program is to speak of Davidson's living alumni. In the time allotted, it is an impossible
task. I could not even call the roll. Nor would it be possible for me to analyze the “Davidson Spirit”
into its elements and point out the various virtues that one might expect to find in an alumnus of the
college. I have chosen rather to single out three characteristics that one may...reasonably look for in a Davidson man, and
then see if I could find among the living alumni one who personified that characteristic in his life. I do
not claim that these characteristics are the most important or desirable. I do not even think so. They have been
selected rather because they have not been emphasized as much as others on previous occasions. And the men were chosen
not because they are the only ones discoverable, but because they are fairly typical of many others.

The first of these characteristics that we may look for in a Davidson alumnus is scholarship—a broad, thorough, sound scholarship,
divested of all pedantry and cant. We should go very far to find one who better typifies in his life
this most desirable quality, than Evander Bradley McGilvary, salutatorian of the class of '84. Continuing his studies after graduation here,
he became a fellow of Princeton, and a Ph.D. of the University of California. Later he was translator for the
Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions in Siam; Sage Professor of Ethics in Cornell University; and since 1905 Chairman of the
Department of Philosophy in the University of Wisconsin. As a member and officer in the most important philosophical societies of
the world; as translator of the Gospels into the Laos dialect of Siam, a work of unparalleled difficulty; as teacher
in two of our great universities, and as publisher of a voluminous list of articles on philosophical and scientific subjects,
he has abundantly established his reputation as a broad and profound scholar.

The second of these characteristics noted here today is what I shall call—for want of a better name—“Educated Business Sagacity”—that
sort of sixth sense that enables a man to dominate in the business world, which when properly educated, makes him
a tremendous power for good in our civilization. A Davidson alumnus who looms large in this connection today is Lawrence
Shakleford Holt, of the class of '71, cotton manufacturer of Burlington, N.C. As business organizer in the larger sense, as
bank director and as cotton mill builder and administrator, he very early demonstrated an ability that won him a position
of commanding importance in the commercial and social world. He was rated 30 years ago as one of the first
three millionaires in his native state, and to his everlasting credit be it written, he was the first manufacturer in
all the South voluntarily to shorten the hours of labor, which he did in 1886 and again in 1902.

The third characteristic we may hope to find in a Davidson man is an unselfish devotion to the welfare of
others. This quality is not a rare one in the product of this institution. It is manifested in the daily
life of a multitude of our missionaries, preachers, doctors, and business men. However, I wish to point out to you
today a man whose life record is singularly sweet with the aroma of this divine gift. He is John Whitehead,
salutatorian of the class of '75, of Salisbury, N.C. After graduating at Davidson with this high honor, he fitted himself
for the practice of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, and went to Salisbury to make his home in 1880.
For 40 years he has ministered to that community in this capacity, and his fame as a physician has spread
far beyond the confines of his own town and state. But it is not as a doctor that I mention
him today. He typifies to a marked degree the quality I have chosen. He is the well-beloved friend of rich
and poor, bond and free. Those who know him testify that no one in trouble ever appealed to him in
vain—men in high positions and men in the lowly walks of life—men clothed in all the habiliments of respectability, and
men down in the mire of sin and despair instinctively turn to him as the one to whom they can
safely appeal, for the long record of his life teaches them that he will sympathetically serve them even to his
own hurt.

Scholarship—Educated Business Sagacity—Unselfish Devotion to the Welfare of Others—these are three of the many desirable qualities included in the “Davidson
Spirit.” McGilvary, Holt, Whitehead—these are three of the many distinguished alumni who are living lives permeated by the “Davidson Spirit.”

HARDING-LINK WEDDING.

A wedding in which much social interest centered was that of Miss Mary Link and Mr. Robert Henry Harding, ex'16,
which took place last week at the home of the bride's father, Mr. H. G. Link, on South Tryon Street.
Rev. Dr. A. A. McGeachy, brother-in-law of the bridegroom, and pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, officiated. The wedding was
a quiet affair, being attended only by members of the two families. Miss Helen Johnson rendered the bridal music. The
vows were spoken in the living room in front of an improvised altar of towering palms, interspersed with white chrysanthemums.
Prior to the ceremony Mrs. Bonnie Orr Lentz sang “I Love You Truly.” The only attendant was Miss Alice Jones
Reeves, pretty little daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jones Reeves, and niece of the bride. She wore a dress of
white organdie hand-embroidered, with yellow sash, and carried the ring in a yellow chrysanthemum. The bride and bridegroom entered the
room together from the hall. The bride wore a handsome suit of dark blue velour with moleskin trimmings and small
hat of henna velvet. She wore a corsage of bride roses and orchids. Mr. and Mrs. Harding left immediately for
a trip to Washington and New York.

The bride is the fourth daughter of Mr. H. G. Link, formerly one of Charlotte’s most successful business men, but
for a number of years past retired from active business. She was educated at Queens College and is a bright
young woman. She is pretty, with refined and gentle manners and is admired by a wide circle of friends. Mr.
Harding is the only son of Dr. 213 N. Tryon St.

Robinson Shoe Company
The Charlotte Steam Laundry
OLDEST LARGEST BEST

The Macamac Company, Agency
POWER HOUSE
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes
Robinson Shoe Company
for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Gastonia, N.C.
