THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920.

DEVOTIONAL

THE OLD GIVES WAY TO THE NEW AT “Y” VESPER SERVICE

Interesting Talks Made by Mr. Miles, Chalmers, and Schenck.

The meeting of the “Y” Sunday evening marked the transition from the old officers and cabinet to the new ones. Mr. Miles asked both the old and new cabinets to sit near the front that all might see them. He said that the work of the “Y” depended on the whole student body and not merely on the president and his cabinet. The Davidson spirit is due to the Christian men on the campus.

Chalmers, the retiring president, reviewed the work of the “Y” for the past year. He said the work of the “Y” had been a success if one man had been brought into a more devoted Christian living. He expressed his thanks to Mr. Miles and the cabinet, “Buck” Currie and the orchestra, and finally to the whole student body for its co-operation. In closing, Chalmers asked that the new officers and cabinet carry to completion the unfinished plans of the retiring officers.

Schenck, the new president, said it was useless to say anything about the splendid work of Mr. Miles and Chalmers because the work stood out for them. He set for the goal for the coming year “Every man to know Christ intimately.”

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

Y. M. C. A. CABINETS HOLD DELIGHTFUL LUNCHEON

Plans Discussed for Coming Year. New Cabinet Announced.

One of the most pleasant social events of the past week was the luncheon given at Mrs. White’s on Thursday evening to a joint meeting of the old and new Y. M. C. A. cabinets. Practically all of the members of both the retiring and incoming cabinets were present, and the events of the evening proved very profitable to both. Many valuable suggestions were given to the new men concerning the various tasks they are now about to enter upon.

Short, forceful talks were then made as follows: Dwight Chalmers brought forward a few suggestions from this year’s president, and urged that the new cabinet interest every man on the campus in some form of “Y” work. Lewis Schenck then paid a splendid tribute to the record of the “Y” this year, and to the work of Mr. Miles and Chalmers, speaking also of the goal of the “Y,” and of the personal preparation of every man for service. Askew then reviewed the financial condition of the “Y,” and also gave valuable suggestions for the work next year. The trials, tribulations, and opportunities of the Bible Study chairman was the subject very ably discussed by L. L. McAlister. C. J. Matthews then told how he had been able to secure Governor Bickett and other noted speakers for this year, and how this work could be carried even further next year. The program was concluded by a short talk from Mr. Miles. The plans of the new cabinet were outlined, and every man present was urged to go to Blue Ridge.

The members of the new cabinet are:
Dave Roberts, Devotional.
James McKeldin, Bible Study.
Jer Cumming, Mission Study.
J. V. Long, Personal Work.
Eris Cassell, Christian Activities.
Rolston Bitzer, Attendance.
Joe McCaskill, Missionary Fund.
Charlie McCaskill, Movies.
Joe Walker, Publication.
Ed Cunningham, Social Service.
B. W. Romefelt, Social.

Members of the retiring cabinet present were: Chalmers, Matthews, McArn, Calhoun, Sullivan, Hall, W. F., McCaskill, C. M., Craig, McAlister, Askew, Currie, and Mr. Miles.

The Council which recently met in New York City, made an interesting and inspiring talk about his trip. The members of the band pledged themselves to stand behind the nation-wide finance drive in the interest of the Volunteer Movement. S. W. Dick was then unanimously elected treasurer of the band. During the absence of Dave Roberts, theVice-president has taken charge and is running things in fine shape. Advertisers OFFICIAL FRATERNITY Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge? 2: JEWELERS MINISTERIAL BAND. 661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Last Sunday afternoon the Ministerial Band elected officers for the first term of next year. Those elected were F. V. Long, president; P. D. Fresh Meats At All Times HERE I AM AGAIN, AN OLD FRIEND BACK I AM NOT A “NEAR BEER” but a thoroughly fermented LAGERED BREW at Betts Saal a ane an ot oar new Nov. 6 Patent Vacuum Process secretary. After quite a bit of discussion, next Friday night was the time set at which a feed would be held at the Gym. The committee in charge is composed of Sullivan, Harrell, and Hunter. The time of the “feed” will be 10 o'clock. BIBLE CLASSES. Despite the weakness of man to crave “Yet a little sleep,” the Bible classes were well attended last Sunday. It seems that Davidson students especially are given to the somber vice of wasting the glories of early morning in restful sleep. It is queer that Sunday morning should be selected by all as the one day to be given to such a practice. Nevertheless, everyone is to be highly commended for assembling his body at 10 o’clock—though his mind remains quite sunken in the feathery softness of five minutes ago. First floor Watts, 8; Second floor Watts, 13; Third floor Watts, 15; First floor Georgia, no class; Third floor Georgia, 3; Second floor Georgia, no class; Chambers, North Legal Distributor EXHILARATING Be Sure To Try Some ship to Part of we ine OMe. GOLDEN GRAIN JUICE CO Minneapolis, Minn. S & BLACK TRANSFER CO., Charlotte, N. C. Is Your Name On Our Subscription List? If not, it is evident that you have not given the matter careful consideration. We are making every reasonable effort to place The Davidsonian in a position second to none among college publications. $2 For College Year Patronize Our THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY catalogue address Booe’s Market BASEBALL Myers Hardware Company Get Into the Game Headquarters for Spalding Equipment ATHLETIC GOODS Balls, Etc. E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C. A.G. SPALDING & BROS. The Commissary RICHMOND, VA. Brady Printing Co. Statesville, N. C. W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT SAY IT WITH FLOWERS SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C. Jetton Drug Company, Agents ORDERS SOLICITED OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE “The House of Service” 1. Free tuning for three years. 2. Free fire insurance while you are paying. 3. Exchange privilege. Charlotte’s Largest Store Of Quality Pianos and Organs AT THE COMMISSARY 16 Chambers The Selwyn Hotel FIRE PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. JOHN W. POST & CO Knabe Warerooms 209-211 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N.C. Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va. H. C. Larzelere, Prop. ONE produced days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to go to it. We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars. Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N.C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary. are making good. The College Printers