1 ar ie; a a THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920. 2g EB. fay ° CN “4 DAVIDSON'S HALL of FOOTBALL FAME FOR THE SEASON of 1920 FOOTBALL MEN AWARDED “D's”

On last Saturday night in Shearer Hall, this year’s football team were awarded for their work and services as Wildcats. Dr. Douglass awarded letters to 16 men for valiant services rendered during the past 10 weeks. Those who were honored were: Douglas, D**; Davis, D*; La Far, D*; Brady, D**; Romefelt, Captain-elect, D*; Hammett, Captain, D*; Schenck, D; Moore, D; Poe, D; Shepherd, W., L; Shepard, N., D; McFaden, D; Cassell, D*; Bethea, D; and McCaskill, Mar., D.; Faison, D.

After the presentation of the honors, Romefelt, Captain-elect for next year, made a few remarks praising the work of Captain Hammett and presented him with a silver cigarette case as a token of appreciation from this year’s team.

Hugh Morton Grey, Coach, D**
Better known as “Wooly,” the man behind the gun. Under his untiring efforts and sacrifices for his men, Coach turned out a team this year that did everlasting honor to its Alma Mater. All the success of the Wildcats eleven can be traced back to the ability, patience, and all-around personality of that man who put Davidson’s name in the annals of gridiron history, both as a former player and later as a coach, “Wooly” Grey. His men worked for him and fought doggedly to the last ditch because they knew that win or lose, their Coach was always with them.

Joseph Clyde McCaskill
Manager, D.
The man who made it possible for the fighting Wildcats to meet the teams they did, and who is thereby indirectly responsible for their successful season. Not only did he render his untiring services to the teams, but also he made it possible for the whole student body to see its team win four of its victories. His schedule called for the meeting of the best teams in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. Under his management and advertising, the athletic association came out quite a few schedules ahead and from the looks of the team, one would say that “Joe” put out some good meals.

Lawrence Orr Hammett, Captain and Tackle, D*
This tenth of a ton, consisting of meat, bones, brawn, and spectacular football ability, led the Red and Black machine this year. Supposedly playing at tackle, Hammett really did everything on both offensive and defensive, except carry the ball. His magnificent build and the effective use thereof made him a terror in the enemy's sight and rarely ever did he fail to take care of two men on his side of the line. He played the game for the game’s sake, and it was a real treat to see him toss his headgear off and lead his team. His wonderful adeptness for getting down on punts made him a continual source of trouble for the opposing backfield and rarely was it that he ever missed his tackle. Hammett's name will ever be remembered in conjunction with such Wildcat warriors as Buck Flowers, George King, Wooly Grey, Buck Burns, and others.

Birchie Walton Romefelt
Captain-Elect and Guard. D*
At guard, “Romeo” was a bulwark of strength in the line. He did not play a particularly spectacular and spasmodic game, but on the other hand, could always be relied upon to put up the same old consistent defensive game. He will be remembered particularly for his valiant work in the Wake Forest game when he repeatedly broke through, pinning their backs for 5 and 10-yard losses. His super strength, although not so heavily built, made him a terrific charger, and when he hit, something had to give way. He was rewarded for his untiring services by being elected captain of next year's eleven.

David Pitts Douglas
End. D**
Although playing at end, “Pitts” generalled the team this year. His particular skill at calling just the proper play at the proper time distinguished him as being one of the coolest-headed handlers of a team in the state. “Pitts” played a dashing game this year and was especially efficient in handling forward passes. Time after time he snatched passes from midair, running 30 and 40 yards before being thrown. His spectacular 55-yard run against South Carolina will be remembered with much honor to him. He has rounded out three years of service on the team and has proven himself one of the gamest Wildcats that ever wore the Red and Black.

Samuel Robertson Brady
Center. D**
Sam has also served under the Red and Black for three years. He is one of the few men in the game who plays it for fun. To give and take in a game is Sam's delight and he always comes out of the game with that characteristic grin on his face. He is a sure passer and never has been known to fizzle a pass, no matter what the adverse conditions. This ability and the moral support and spirit he carries into a game have made him an asset which could never be reckoned. During the latter part of the season, he did the kicking-off and goal kicking, producing class A results every time. He made the remarkable record of playing every minute of every game this year.

Samuel Malloy Davis
Tackle. D*
“Sam” is another of those players who seldom pulls anything spectacular, but who is always on the alert and busies himself with getting his own man out of the way. He is in the game with that old-time “stickability spirit” and his wonderful consistency has proven him to be a big factor on the defensive. His strong point is his offensive work. His remarkable drive and ability to get his man out of the play has often paved the way for a substantial gain by some backfield member. Sam has served for two years and still has two more left and will be one of Davidson's best outputs if he continues his present gait.

David Robertson LaFar
Guard. D*
“Doc,” the baby giant of the eleven, is a tower of strength in the center of the line. For two years he has held down his own in this position, and still has another year in which to perform. “Doc” plays the same old steady game, never failing to hold up the center of the line in magnificent style. He is especially strong on the defensive and is a stumbling block to any opposing rushes. Seldom do they attempt a play over LaFar, and woe unto those who do try it. His heavy build has made him especially adept at the defense and he has never failed to put up that same scrapping game and contests every inch gained by the opposition.

John Schenck
End. D
“Johnie” came to us this year a newcomer, and proceeded to win for himself a place at end. He romped around at the outer point with great success and made Douglas an ideal running mate. He grabbed passes out of midair with the greatest ease and was clever in his broken field running. His strong point was on the defensive, time after time breaking through the opposing interference and nailing his man. Schenck is fast and aggressive and if he returns next year will prove a greater asset to the team, as he will not be thrown out on account of S. I. A. A. rulings.

Joseph Means McFadden
Fullback. D
“Rooster” is one of the best backfield men for his weight that has ever worn the Red and Black. His peculiar build and unusual drive make him a hard man to stop when at top speed. He is very evasive and it's a sight to see him squirm through the smallest kind of a hole in the line. He is fast and, although not heavy, makes a very suitable fullback for our combination. He did the majority of the punting until he injured his right ankle in the Richmond game. His clean but impressive fighting spirit and that never-say-die attitude have won for him a warm place in the heart of every Davidson supporter.

Friel Montgomery Cassell
Fullback. D*
Undoubtedly the scrappiest gridiron warrior on Davidson elevens in years. He plays the game to win and puts every atom of strength, spirit, and drive into each play and is always ready for a comeback. “Frog” has one of the most wicked changes of pace when he carries the ball, that is known and has gained much reputation as a broken field runner. His side step is a ruse which has brought grief to many a tackler and on his wide end runs he uses this to a big advantage. Cassell assumed part of the punting responsibility after McFadden’s injury and turned the trick in good style. He has played for two years and still has two more seasons to win honor for himself and his Alma Mater.

William Springs Shepherd
Halfback. D
Yes—this is the one and only “Gig,” who so completely covered himself with glory when he crossed Carolina's coveted goal line, and brought victory to the Wildcat den. “Gig” is another artist in brokenField running. His peculiar stride is very deceptive and many would-be tacklers are easily evaded. His twist when he goes through the line is like that of a corkscrew and tacklers just seem to drop off. “Gig” is not over-heavy, but has just enough weight not to slow him up on his wide end sweeps. He alternated at punting and showed up to a good advantage, especially in the latter part of the season. He still has two more years to romp around.

Norman Westbrook Shepard
Halfback.
“Shep” was the biggest ground gainer on the eleven this year. His terrific speed made him such a valuable asset. Quick as a deer to get off and increasing his momentum as he went, enabled him to gain much even after tackled. His wicked use of the stiff-arm brought immediate sorrow to many tacklers and on off-tackle plays he found many occasions to use this device. His forward passing was superb and quite often very freakish, as he would sometimes run from a passing combination for gains of 15 yards or more. One of the most aggressive men on the team this year and with two years yet in front of him, he will bring home the bacon more than once.

Orin Poe
Halfback.
A man who just naturally doubles up, head forward, hits the line and takes half of it with him. When he comes into a play with a start of two yards, he carries such momentum with him that something has to give way. His drive is magnificent and as graceful as could be. He is a hard tackler and carries that same punch with him when he goes after a man. This is his first year on the team and next year should prove a bulwark of strength in the backfield.

Philip Osborne Bethea
Halfback.
“P.O.” put up a splendid brand of ball this year and what's more, it took real old Spartan pluck to do it. He had the misfortune to have his shoulder bone badly injured during midseason, but came back in two weeks for more and put up a great game against Furman. Clever running was particularly characteristic of his style of play and, on a wide end sweep he was sure to get away for a substantial gain. Bethea also has another year with us and will have plenty of opportunity to represent us on next year’s eleven.

James Spratt Moore
Quarterback.
“Spratt” is the midget Wildcat. He is the lightest man that has played on Davidson elevens in years. With his exceptional light weight and fleetness of foot, he proved himself to be the most spectacular broken field runner on the team. He sidesteps, dodges and dives with equal accuracy and is just like an eel on the offensive. His ability to run back punts is absolutely uncanny. With any start at all, he gains ground with the greatest ease. This is his first year on the team and with three years in front of him, he has the most promising career to look forward to that can be imagined.

Clias Sampson Faison
End.
Faison is also a Freshman, who has wonderful prospects. Coming to us unknown, he has produced the goods in wonderful style and has the earmarks of a giant end. He is alert and quick to break into the opponent's end runs. His ability to get down under punts is unbelievable and his efficiency in tackling make him a household of fear to the enemy. He is equally as effective on the offensive and seems to grab any passes that get anywhere near him. He has a great future in store and will bear watching in his next three years at Davidson.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

PURPLE HURRICANE DEFEATS
(Continued from page 1)

seven-point lead and never again did they take the offensive. The Red and Black ran wild the last half. Many times they carried the ball inside of Furman’s 20-yard line. The Red jerseyed lads gained 190 yards in this half while the Purple gained only 19 yards. One notable fact was the total absence of Furman passes. Not once during the entire game did the Greenville lads attempt to gain by this style of play. Bethea was the outstanding star in the Wildcat backfield. Time and again he ran over Jeter, Furman’s captain, for gains of from five to ten yards. Cassell and McFadden also played a bang-up game. In the line Hammett and Romefelt played the best although the whole line showed up well. Rhame was Furman’s best bet. He carried the ball most of the time. On their 80-yard he gained 48 yards in 12 tries. Speer also showed his worth several times. Hammett and Lanford were their best linemen.

The game play by play follows:

First Quarter.
McManaway kicked off 50 yards to Cassell, who returned ten yards to the 30-yard line. McFadden failed to gain. Cassell made three through center. Cassell then failed and McFadden punted 40 yards to Speer, who was downed in his tracks. Rhame gained one yard in two tries. Speer added eight and Waters made first down. Speer lost and Rhame cut back around left end. Time out for Speer. Ball on Davidson's 41-yard line. Rhame made three at right tackle and added four around right end. Speer made it first down with three over center. Rhame made two. Waters made six, but fumbled and Cassell went down the sideline to the middle of the field before Speer got him. Clary for Bethea. Shepard failed to gain and Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. Pass to Douglas incomplete, Speer broke it up. McFadden gained one. McFadden punted 40 yards to Waters who was tackled by Douglas without any gain. Ball on Furman’s 19-yard line. Romefelt stopped Speer. Waters made one and McManaway punted out on Davidson's 47-yard line. McFadden made five and Clary added one at right end. McFadden lost ten on an attempted pass. McFadden punted out of bounds on Furman’s 31-yard line. Romefelt threw Rhame for a two-yard loss. McManaway made two on a lateral pass. McManaway punted to McFadden on the 30-yard line. Cassell gained five yards and Shepherd made it first down with five over center. Cassell made one and a pass was incomplete. Shepherd took five more and McFadden punted 40 yards to Rhame, who returned to the 34-yard line. Waters and Rhame made one. Quarter up. Furman’s ball on own 35-yard line.

Second Quarter.
Bethea for Clary. Hammett threw Speer for four-yard loss. McManaway punted to McFadden on Furman’s 47-yard line. Bethea tore off six at right end. Pass McFadden to Douglas for 15 yards. Bethea made one yard in two tries. Shepherd kicked in the nose, and Furman cheered for him as he was carried from the field. Long goes in. McFadden made four and then punted over the goal line. Furman’s ball on 20-yard line. Rhame made four yards in two tries. Waters two-yard loss, but Davidson realized five yards. Rhame made 19 at tackle and two at center. Speer made four and Rhame one, and then four more. McManaway gained four and Rhame added three on two line-plays. Speer took six and Rhame threw in eight. Waters failed to gain and then made first down. Ball on 17-yard line. Speer made one, Rhame, two, and then Speer four more. Speer made five yards and first down. Rhame made three yards, Waters failed and Rhame went around left end for touchdown. Speer kicked goal. McManaway kicked off 45 yards to Cassell who returned to 33-yard line. Pass to Douglass incomplete. Bethea failed and McFadden lost one. McFadden then punted to Furman’s 45-yard line. Waters made three and the half was up. Score: Furman 7, Davidson 0.

Third Quarter.
Cassell kicked off to Bradley on 25-yard line. He returned to 32-yard line. Waters no gain. McManaway made one then four and then punted to Davidson’s 31-yard line. Cassell made one, Bethea lost one, and Cleary made two. McFadden’s punt was blocked but recovered. Furman penalized 15 for holding, putting ball on Davidson’s 47-yard line. Bethea Cassell lost one at left end and McFadden punted to 12-yard line where Douglas touched the ball, Furman's ball on 20-yard line. Waters made five, Rhame added two and failed to gain. McManaway punted to McFadden on 38-yard line. Time for McFadden. Clary lost one and Bethea failed to gain. Pass to Cassell who went to Furman’s 42-yard line. Bethea hit right tackle for five and added four, one-half at the same place. McFadden over center for three yards. Cleary made one, Bethea no gain and McFadden lost two. Time for Carter. Posey for Carter. Pass to Cassell for nine yards. Ball goes over Waters no gain and Hammett threw Rhame for five-yard loss. McManaway punted to McFadden on Davidson's 46-yard line. Bethea made three, McFadden six, and Cassell two. Bethea hit left tackle for five and McFadden added one.

Fourth Quarter.
Carter back in the game. Bethea