Davidson 38 Wofford 17

SONIAN

Take Your Girlie to the “Y” Services

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 26, 1920. No. 21

Magnificent Banner Presented to Local Unit by Mr. Pharr of Charlotte

R. O. T. C. Colors.

The battalion colors of the Davidson College R. O. T. C. unit were displayed for the first time last Thursday
evening, when the battalion performed a special ceremony, the “Escort of the Colors.” This ceremony consists in the escorting of
the United States Colors to the parade grounds by a designated company, where they are received by the battalion. The
Davidson battalion colors were presented to the unit by Mr. J. W. Pharr, of Charlotte. Mr. Pharr has consented to
be present some time in March for the official ceremony of presentation by him. The description of the colors is
as follows: Flag, 52x66 inches. Field of red Lyons banner silk. Scroll, circle and cross bar in circle of black
Lyons banner silk. Design in center to be silk embroidered. Double scrolls, circle and cross bar in circle so as
to make lettering read on both sides right. The serpent will show reverse position on opposite side of flag. Yellow
hand-knotted silk fringe. Jointed ash staff. No. 2 gilt eagle. Yellow silk cord and tassels. Flag belt and rain cover.
$240 net. Manufactured by M. C. Lilley & Co., of Columbus, Ohio.

(Continued on page 2)

PRELIMINARIES FOR DEBATING TEAM HELD

Finals Will be at an Early Date—Much Interest Being Manifested.

Phi Society.

Last Wednesday evening, to the tune of the doom of democracy and the rise of labor unions, 10 aspirants for
inter-collegiate debating honors gathered to contest the matter to a bloody finish in the Philanthropic Society. Had Demosthenes and Cicero
been present at this exercise they would have bowed their heads with shame, such were the oratorical heights reached by
these eloquent and enthusiastic speakers. The hall resounded with the vibrating tones of the denouncer of labor and the uplifter
of capital; of the pleader for industrial representation, and the advocate of labor’s rights. The subject for debate was: “Resolved,
That labor through representatives of its own choosing should have a voice in the management of industry.” The debates were
well prepared and the contest was spirited throughout. After a stormy session of about two hours the victors emerged from
the fray, carrying their hard-won laurels triumphantly off the field of battle. After a very earnest deliberation, the judges awarded
the “reps” to the following orators: D. M. Chalmers, R. E. McClure, C. K. Brown and L. B. Schenck, with
J. M. Dunlap as alternate.

Ew Society.

Eumenean Literary Society held preliminaries for intercollegiate debating preliminaries last Wednesday night. The judges, composed of Drs. Shewmake, Lingle and
Douglas, selected the group of McCaskill, Liston, Ormand, A. B., and Mitchell, with Gamble as alternate. The debate was evidenced
by much pep, enthusiasm and rivalry and much credit should be given to the fortunate men for their interest in
promoting the Eumenean Society.

Thursday Night Ushers in Junior Speaking

Glee Club is Practicing Nightly for Speaking Effort Being Exerted to Give Splendid Recital at Junior Speaking

Around 7:30 every night, students passing under the stately oaks around Shearer Hall, hearing melodious strains wafted on the evening
breeze, pause as did Joan of Arc, hearing voices. It is the Glee Club rehearsing up in the chapel, and
it sounds mighty good. Down there in the shadows you can hear the martial strains of Gounod’s “Soldiers’ Chorus” from
the opera “Faust”—Grand Opera, fellows!—and that bewitching hit “Sahara.” Soul stuff, both of them; and that is what the Glee
club is putting out—soul stuff—and in the most approved fashion. In a few weeks Leader B. E. Shields is going
to tour the state with his incomparable band of songbirds. Among those cities of North Carolina that will have the
privilege of hearing Davidson’s Glee club are Bennettsville, Red Springs, Fayetteville, Greensboro, Winston-Salem, and Statesville. The local papers of the
above-named places will give us a better idea of the excellent ability of our Glee club after hearing it than
we can give here at this time. Before this tour, however, Davidson will be entertained with a concert by the
Glee club. The Saturday night during Junior Speaking has been set as the date for their performance on the hill,
and The Davidsonian heartily recommends to every student on the Hill to be present at this performance. Every song of
the Glee club is a hit, and every member of that band puts the numbers over straight from the—we almost
said shoulder—heart. For purity of harmony, appeal of tone, beauty of interpretation, and skill in rendering musical numbers, Davidson’s Glee
club is unexcelled.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and his family have played the host to the flu during the past week. Dr. Arbuckle
is up and out now, and Mrs. Arbuckle and Howard, the other two members affected, have practically recovered.

Forensic Exercises Expected

The Attractiveness of Speaking Will be Greatly Increased by This Fact

The secret is out. Whispered rumors have been flitting to and fro over the campus for the past several days
to the effect that something was to happen, and unlike many of the tales which were current in the S.
A. T. C. days, these rumors are true. All efforts to keep the matter quiet are at an end, for
tomorrow everyone on the hill will have heard all about it. Briefly: A casual visitor to the college during the
next three days might quite excusably mistake this institution of learning for a young ladies’ seminary, for one hundred and
seven of the loveliest maidens whoEver smiled upon this land which we call Dixie, will be present for speaking. No
knight of old ever rode forth to uphold his crest upon the field of tournament under the auspicious conditions which
are to mark the Junior Oratorical exercises of the year nineteen hundred and twenty. The visitors to be: Kappa Sigma.
Miss Lucy Myers and Miss Kathleen Price, Greensboro, N. C.; Miss Lottie Carrol, Bishopville, S. C.; Miss Elizabeth Armstrong, Greensboro,
N. C.; Miss Dalores Holt, Burlington, N. C.; Miss Mamie Holt, Fayetteville, N. C.; Miss Dutch Fant, Newberry, N. C.;
Miss Emma Hope, Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Mary Parks Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Miss Harriet Dillon, Nashville, Tenn.; Miss
Delt Bernhardt, Lenoir, N. C.; Miss Mary Harrison, Lenoir, N. C.; Miss Mary Sprunt Bethea, Dillon, S. C.; Miss Ruth
White, Lenoir, N. C.; Miss Dorothy Mendenhall, Lexington, N. C.; Miss Louise O’Farrel and Miss Laura Lyn Council, Salisbury, N.
C.; Miss Janet Mellon, Charlotte, N. C.; Miss Frances Shearer, Rocky Mount, Va.; Miss Hilda Randolph, Kinston, N. C.

Windup Stage Wonderful Comeback in Second Half—Brice and Roberts Local Stars—Skinner’s Shooting Featured

Staging a sensational comeback in the final three minutes of play, by ringing up four goals in rapid succession, the
Wildcats snatched victory from the hands of University of South Carolina, and won by a 27 to 25 count. Overcoming
an early Red and Black lead, the lads from the Old South state were ahead during the entire game, until
Roberts caged the winning basket in the last 30 seconds of play. The play was fast at all times, although
above the average personal fouls were called. The chief offender in this, 7 being called, against 4 for the Palmetto
lads. Skinner shot only 3 of the 7 tries, while Roberts caged 3 out of 4. The game was full
of thrills, especially the final period. Spectacular shooting on the part of Skinner, for S. C., drew applause from the
gallery time after time. In the latter part of the first half, he was shooting from any angle and caged
6 goals in this period. Fay, lanky center, also did clever shooting for the visitors, making 4 goals in the
first half. For Davidson, Roberts made all the points in the first stanza, with 4 field goals and 2 foul
goals. The half ended 21 to 10 in favor of the University. The second half started with a rush, the
Wildcats scoring 3 goals in rapid succession bringing the score up to 21 to 16. The play became a little
slow at this stage of the game and five minutes before the whistle blew, Carolina was leading 22 to 19.
Time out was called by Capt. Chalmers and after a minute’s instruction the team went back in and proceeded to
play their opponent off their feet. Goals by Romefelt, Roberts, and Hall brought the score to 23 to 22 in
favor of Davidson. With a minute and a half to play, Skinner dropped one in from the sideline and Carolina
forged into the lead, 24 to 23. Roberts, quick as a flash, on the next play put the Wildcats in
the lead, 25 to 24 by a neat shot from the right center. Skinner tied the score by scoring a
foul goal. With 45 seconds to play, Roberts caged a long one, which proved to be the winning point, ending
any chance that Carolina had of being victorious. The features of the game were the spectacular shooting of Skinner for
Carolina, and Roberts for Davidson, the former scoring 15 points and the latter 21. The heavy guarding of the Wildcats
in the final period holding Carolina to one field goal also featured. The score:

U. of S.C. Davidson
Skinner (15) Forward Roberts (21)
Fay (10) Forward Hall (4)
Center Strieback Vaughn
Guard Brice Waite
Guard Romefelt (2)
Substitutes: Chalmers for Strieback.
Referee: Long, Charlotte “Y”
Timekeeper: Guy.

An Excellent Program for Speaking Near Completion
Days Will be Crowded With Events—Juniors in Fine Trim for Fray

In spite of the fact that Junior speaking weather has set in, preparations for the great event have begun in
earnest. The campus is receiving its semi-annual raking and the decoration committee reports that Shearer Hall will soon be transformed
from its usual plainness to a place of splendor. The invitations have gone out and a large number of visitors
are expected to be here for the grand occasion. Speaking begins on Thursday evening at 7:30, and lasts through Saturday
afternoon. On Saturday night the Glee Club gives a concert which is one of the features of the occasion. It
is not known yet just when the Seniors who have to speak will perform but they will come in a
section by themselves, either before or after the Juniors. On Friday night there will be a picture show in the
Gym after the speaking. Saturday afternoon there is to be a basketball game with N. C. State College, and the
inter-Fraternity reception takes place that night. The best speaker that Davidson has heard for many a year is promised by
the class of 1920.

A committee will canvass the town next Monday to find accommodations for the ladies who will be here at the
Volunteer Conference.

CALENDAR
Thursday Night—7:30, Opening of Junior Speaking.
Friday—3 p.m., Second Session of Speaking. 7:30, Third Session of Speaking. 9, Movies; William Farnum, in “The Parson of Panamint.”
Saturday Morning—10:30, Fourth Session of Speaking.
Saturday Afternoon—3 p.m., Last Session of Speaking.
Saturday Night—7 p.m., Concert by Glee Club. 8:30, Basketball; Davidson vs N. C. State. 10, General Reception.
Sunday Night—6:15, “Y” Vesper Service. The Ladies are Cordially Invited.

FIFTEEN FOR OUR FEROCIOUS FIGHTING FIVE
