THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS
KODAK FINISHING
THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES
At the Powerhouse
Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers

If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Fraternity and Watch Jewelers
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.
Table d'hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.
Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

"THE HOUSE OF SERVICE"
Double Guarantee, Free Trial, Liberal Selling Plan
Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms
"THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO"
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-210 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

PHI SOCIETY.
Should the U. S. Adopt a National Budget System?
Eu’s and Phi's differ on this vital question. The debate in the Phi Society, while not exactly equal to that
of a week ago, was nevertheless pretty lively with Poteat starring for the affirmative and Dave Roberts for the negative.

The usual preliminaries being disposed of, J. W. Baldwin was the first speaker for the affirmative debating the query: “Resolved,
that the United States Government should adopt a national budget system.” He defined the budget and showed specific instances proving
that the present system was inadequate and wasteful. J. R. Jones, the first speaker for the negative, showed that the
present system was good enough and that it was improving. John Poteat, second for the affirmative, explained the three types
of budgets very fully. His speech presented a very comprehensive view of the budget system and conclusive proof that it
should be adopted in one of the three forms. Dave Roberts made a strong defense of the present system and
showed that this system was not wasteful as was commonly supposed. L.A. Taylor showed that since private corporations used this
system satisfactorily, the government could also adopt it with a saving in running expenses. T. A. Freeman, the last speaker
for the negative, brought out the points that money matters are better discussed by a legislative body than by a
budget, and that the finances are better under the present system than they would be under a budget system. On
the rebuttals, each speaker came back strong in defense of his attacked points. The decision was two in favor of
the negative.

H. K. Russel declaimed, taking parts of Wilson's speeches in Europe bearing directly on the League of Nations. “Secretary” Lacy
on the affirmative and “Bugs” Robinson on the negative undertook to argue the query, “Resolved, that there should be women
sheriffs.” This was unfamiliar ground for both debaters, but “Bugs” won the decision by one vote. W. G. Johnston was
received as a member of the Junior division. The president stated the query and conditions for the Junior-Senior Debate, and
the date as October 19. After some discussion on the possibilities of heat in the Hall, the society adjourned to
meet again October 23, instead of October 16.

EU SOCIETY.
The meeting of the Eu Society was one of the snappiest and most enjoyable of any held this fall. The
special features of the evening were W. W. Moore’s oration and W. A. Gamble’s declamation. Devotional exercises were conducted by
the president and Rob. McIlwaine. The debate, resolved: That the United States should adopt a national budget system, was excellent.
The affirmative was upheld by J. R. Boulware and H. B. Heizer. The negative by A. D. King and J.C.
B. McLaughlin. The main argument of the affirmative was that the present system is faulty and that the budget system
is the only one that can take its place. The negative endeavored to prove that the budget system is unconstitutional
and that it would place too much power in the hands of one man. Next on theThe program was W.
W. Moore, who rendered an excellent oration on the “Advantages of a Small College.” So convincing were Moore’s arguments that
some were almost persuaded to enter colleges smaller than Davidson. Following W. W.’s spellbinder, W. A. Gamble delivered a declamation
which almost moved the audience to tears. The subject of this heart-wringer was Victor Hugo’s “Defense of His Son.” The
speech was well delivered and called forth much applause. On account of the football game in Charlotte next Saturday, it
was decided by a unanimous vote not to hold a meeting of the society Saturday night.

DR. E. A. BYERS BEGINS WORK AT DAVIDSON.

Capable Instructor Takes up Work in Department of Modern Languages.

The coming of Dr. E. A. Byers to Davidson College as an additional professor in the Department of Modern Languages
is evidence of the material growth of this institution, and of its desire to regulate the courses offered to conform
to the needs of the educated business man of today. Dr. Byers was born in Liegnitz, Germany, of German-American parents,
but at an early age he returned with them to this country. A large part of his boyhood was spent
in Atchison, Kansas, and it was there that he received both his preparatory and college training, attending Midland Academy and
College. Upon graduation from Midland College, Dr. Byers entered the Western Theological Seminary, and received the degree of B.D. from
that institution. The next two years, 1912-13, were spent traveling through the various European countries, a part of the time
being spent studying at the Universities of Berlin and Strasbourg. From 1914 to 1917 he was head of the Department
of Modern Languages at his alma mater, Midland College. Then, having spent the summers studying at the Universities of Chicago
and Nebraska, he received his M.A. degree from the last-named university in 1917. That same year he returned to Nebraska
University as an assistant in Modern Languages, also with a view to completing his work for the Ph.D. degree, which
he received last year. During last summer Dr. Byers was called to take charge of the teaching of Philosophy at
Colorado University, and then to his present position at Davidson College. In the short time that he has been here
he has won the respect and admiration of all who have come in contact with him, and we predict for
him great success in his work here at Davidson.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts Union
Theological Seminary W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

For nearly a century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

STOP, LOOK and READ!

We carry a full line of Fancy Groceries, Feed Stuff, and all supplies, at the cheapest price. Come in and
see us.

THE BLUE FRONT STORE (W. N. JOHNSON, SONS CO)

Belk Bros. Sell It For Less

ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29th, through Saturday, October 9th, we inaugurate a new kind of Sale: “THE 1920 HARVEST SALE.” All
Men’s Clothing, Gents’ Furnishings, Hats, Caps, Shoes, Shirts—in fact every department in our Nine Big Floors participating. For 10 days
this will afford you just the chance to make quite a good saving on that new suit or new hat,
or shoes. Come any day.

Sale Continues for 10 days at Very Substantial Savings.
