THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 16, 1920.

and girls. (It's the sweet for all day)

The COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Capital, Surplus and Reserves Over a Million Dollars
WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, S. C.
THOM WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics
EDGAR D. KERR, D.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages
J. B. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution
GEORGE H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology
Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A. H. McNEILL, D.D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D.

Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church.
Write to PRESIDENT, Columbia, S.C.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s trade
Mail orders given special attention.
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N.C.

N.C. VOLUNTEER UNION
(Continued from page 1)

task and to put himself wholly to its accomplishment.

Sunday Morning.
The Sunday morning exercises of the convention opened at 10 o’clock with Mr. J. Lovell Murray introducing the speakers. Miss Hardy opened the meeting by a devotional service of scripture and prayer. Miss Hazlett explained the meaning of the volunteer pledge. Its chief object was to get men and women to sign up as foreign missionaries. Dr. Murray delivered the address of the morning. He told of the great need of foreign missionary workers in all the heathen lands. He explained that one need not go to preach only, but volunteers were needed to teach the people how to farm and carry on commercial industries. He urged the volunteers to be careful about signing the pledge. He said that one should not be too hasty, as it was a serious matter. However, Mr. Murray suggested that those who had already carefully considered the matter, and who had made their decision should sign the pledge; others should think over the matter and then sign it. The need was the only call that anyone should require to beckon him to foreign missionary service.

Sunday Night.
The last service, held Sunday night, was in some respects the most helpful and by far the most beautiful service of the entire conference. First came the echoes from the Des Moines Convention. The questions which every volunteer must answer were presented to the conference. The volunteers learned of the bigness of the task and of the comparative small size of the force at work, of the great necessity of the personal challenge which comes to each Christian as well as each volunteer from the heathen world. The best part of the conference was certainly saved to the last. Dr. Richards in his address struck the keynote of the whole conference: “We are now,” he said, “on one of theMountain tops of our lives and we can see the delectable mountains of glory, but between them and us are the valleys. This view should be carried with everyone into the valleys of their respective school, work, and the work in the foreign field. Man cannot always stay on the heights but must descend into valleys. Dr. Richards closed by saying one should volunteer now that he might properly prepare himself.

Y. M. C. A. Reception

It was indeed the pleasure of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to be the hosts of a most enjoyable reception in honor of the visiting delegates from the Student Volunteers, attending the State Convention, held in the gymnasium building, Saturday afternoon at four-thirty. The building was very neatly decorated in red and black. Punch bowls were placed at the entrance hall door and in each end of the large room. Delicious punch and cakes were served by the very attractive girls from the conference and town: Miss Emma Jackson of Meredith College, Raleigh, N. C.; Misses Mary Parks Grey and Dorothy Finlayson of Davidson, N. C.; assisted by Messrs. Dwight Chalmers, B. W. Romefelt, and Lewis Schenck, of Davidson College. Practically the entire student body, also a number of the faculty members and their wives, were present and were introduced to charming visitors from the various colleges in the state. It was a very informal occasion. Everyone was requested to wear a little card stating their name and college. In this way, all those present soon became acquainted with each other and mutually indulged in a general good time. Music was furnished throughout the affair by Mr. D. R. Freeman’s famous Marimbo Band and added greatly to the pleasures of the afternoon. During the last few minutes of the delightful occasion, the Davidson boys formed a circle and sang their college spirit song "O! Davidson." It was indeed one of the most enjoyable receptions of the year.

Nationally Known in No Time

Bevo has become the best friend of food and fellowship. Drink it for its purity and deliciously appetizing flavor. At the soda fountain or with your meals. Bevo must be served cold.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS

It must be Ice Cold. Sold everywhere. Families supplied by druggist and dealer. Visitors are cordially invited to our plant.

Equitable

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers
Rock Hill, S. C.
J. P. QUARLES, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N. C.
W. McK. FETZER, Director
Athletic, Educational, Military

Six years of success and continued growth. Beautiful lake, baseball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect tennis courts, canoe trips to Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175. For information and catalog, address the Secretary, MACON REED, Davidson, N. C., until June 1; after this date, Brevard, N. C.

Drink PEPSI-COLA
Stimulating, Exhilarating