WE THANK YOU, ALUMNI!

Old men, Davidson is grateful for your constant support in the football season just ended. The team, the squad, and the whole student body thank you. You only did your duty, and what you wanted to do—for you are still a part of us—but not everyone does as much.

The team heard your voices at the opening game of the season in Raleigh, and it helped them. They knew you were behind them at Lexington and Atlanta. In both the games in Charlotte, the number of usual followers of the team was nearly doubled because of your again wearing the red and black as you used to do. From the time the whistle blew at the beginning of the game on Prince Albert Park, in Winston-Salem, until after the snake dance at the Zinzendorf, D. C. felt your presence. And many of the students’ hearts rejoiced when your voices of support were heard amidst that great crowd of strangers in Greenville on Thanksgiving Day.

Maybe our season hasn’t been as successful from the standpoint of the number of games won and lost as some while you were here. But men, never has a bunch of harder fighting fellows been on Sprunt Field nor fellows with better spirit. This is not only to thank you for remaining behind us in the season of 1920, but to let you know that Davidson is expecting this same “stuff” in 1921.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

FORMER DAVIDSON FOOTBALL STAR MARRIED

Miss Helen Barnhart is the Attractive Bride of Jack Black, ‘20.

At 8 o’clock on the evening of November 24, J. M. Black, ‘20, better known to all Davidson men and to the world of football enthusiasts as Jack Black, was married to Miss Helen Barnhart at the home of her sister, Mrs. W. H. Davidson, of Charlotte. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. A. W. Plyler, of Greensboro, brother-in-law to the bride. After a short visit in Asheville, Mr. and Mrs. Black will make their home in Greenville, S. C., where he is engaged in business with the firm of Mills and Manning.

Jack had the good fortune of knowing and loving his bride from childhood days among the treasure-laden hills of Pioneer Mills, once a prosperous mining place where other than human gold was as happily found. Miss Barnhart is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Barnhart of Pioneer Mills, N. C. She received her college education at Flora Macdonald and the State Normal, completing a successful course as a trained nurse in Stuart Circle Hospital, of Richmond, Va.

Jack’s brilliant career as All-Southern halfback in the days of Davidson's greatest football fame, his enviable record in the A. E. F. as first lieutenant in the Eighty-First Field Artillery, his return to college in the fall of 1919, and the last game of his football career, in which he was largely responsible for Davidson's running through Furman's line for a 41 to 14 victory, needs no reiteration to readers of The Davidsonian. Suffice it to say that it is hoped that he and Mrs. Black will have many more Thanksgivings such as this has been for them and that they may see many more Thanksgiving games played in Greenville like the one he played in ‘19.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Rev. N. N. Fleming, '12, with Mrs. Fleming and the baby, visited Robert, of the Freshman class, and W. R. Booth, of the Junior class, on Friday. Mrs. Fleming is a sister of the last named.

Rev. J. M. Walker, '07, of Marlington, W. Va., has become pastor of the Steele Creek Church, near Charlotte.

Rev. J. E. Cousar, ‘14, has been married recently to Miss Sarah Hansel. They will be located at Okazaki, Japan.

Rev. Robert King, ‘06, has been elected General Evangelist of the Synod of Appalachia.

Rev. W. S. Patterson, ‘03, recently preached at DeFuniak Springs, Fla., in the place of Dr. Daffin, retiring moderator.

Rev. F. A. Barnes, '95, of Schofield, Va., has become pastor of Gilwood and Shearer Churches, near Davidson. Mr. and Mrs. Barnes will spend the winter with Mrs. N. L. Barnes here.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

ALUMNI ON HILL THIS WEEK-END

R. L. Black, ex-'20; G. D. Sample, ’20; B. E. Shields, ’20; W. M. Hall, ‘20; W. M. Hall, ‘20; A. D. McArn, ‘20; H. B. Brown, '20; L. J. Bray, ex-’23; Henry Barringer, ex-'23; W. L. Campbell, ex-’23; D. R. Nimocks, ex-'22; R. D. Hall, '19; F. P. Hall, ‘19.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Little Misses Mattie and Helen Goodrum spent Thanksgiving in Mooresville, being the guests of Mrs. Justice.

DR. C. M. HEPBURN RANKS HIGH AS A LAWYER

Graduating With the Class of '78, Has Attained Prominence in Legal Affairs.

Charles McGuffey Hepburn, '78, was born in Rockbridge County, Virginia, on August 16, 1858. His parents, Andrew Dousa and Henrietta (McGuffey) Hepburn, put Charles in school when he was but a small chap; but from the very first he learned readily and was a leader in his classes. He entered Davidson College in 1875 at the age of 17, and graduated here in 1878, being valedictorian of his class. He was a leader in other phasesof college activities than scholarship while at Davidson, however. In 1880, two years after his graduation from college, he received the degree of LL.B. from the University of Virginia; and in 1908 the University of Miami conferred the degree of LL.D. upon Dr. Hepburn. Dr. Hepburn was married on October 10, 1891, to Miss Julia Benedict, of Marietta, Ga. He became tutor in charge of the preparatory department at Davidson in 1880, and remained in that capacity for two years. He was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1881 and practiced at Cincinnati until 1883. He was lecturer on Code and Common Law, pleading in the Cincinnati Law School from 1897 until 1903. In 1903 Dr. Hepburn became Professor of Law in the University of Indiana. In 1909 he organized the Amherst Institution of Law, for the purpose of establishing post-admission-to-the-bar courses of legal study. He has been secretary of a section of legal education in the American Bar Association since 1901, and was a delegate to the Sound Money Convention in Indianapolis in 1896. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Delta Phi, and Beta Theta Pi fraternities. He is a Presbyterian and a Democrat. In 1897 he wrote “Historical Developments of Code Pleading in America and England;” and in 1913 “Cases on Torts.” His home address at present is Bloomington, Ind. Davidson is watching with great interest and pride the achievements of Dr. Hepburn. Only a few of the many facts in connection with this great character are mentioned here, but enough are given to make us admire an alumnus of Davidson of the class of ‘78—Charles McGuffey Hepburn.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

TOWN NEWS.

Professor and Mrs. Currie entertained the new members of the faculty and their wives at an “after movie” supper on Thanksgiving evening. Dr. T. W. Lingle spent Thanksgiving in Asheville, delivering an address in French before the North Carolina Teachers Association. Dr. and Mrs. Hood spent Thanksgiving in Asheville. Dr. J. W. McConnell accompanied H. E. Wyman home on a hunting trip last Wednesday. Miss Mary Richards and Miss Pauline Seabrook, of Mocksville, spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Richards. Mr. and Mrs. Thompson, of Lexington, N. C., spent Thanksgiving with their son, Fred Thompson, ‘21. Many friends at Davidson are congratulating Mrs. Ernest Bohannon on her good fortune in recovering her handsome and costly diamond pin, which she lost some months ago. Mr. Gowan Dunenberry, of Tennessee, is here on a visit to his wife. They are the guests of Mr. and Mrs. P. W. Booe, the parents of Mrs. Dunenberry. Captain and Mrs. Hearn are expecting Miss McIntosh, of New York, for a visit in the next week or two. Dr. Martin made a plea in behalf of the Ministerial Relief Fund in Charleston last Sunday. Misses Margaret Overton and Helen Ragan were the weekend guests of Miss Elizabeth Grey. Mrs. P. S. Gilchrist and Mrs. E. L. Keesler, of Charlotte, spent the weekend at Davidson. Beautiful in every detail was the birthday party given by Miss Evelyn Potts at her home on Academy Street Monday evening, November 21. The guests were met at the door by Miss Potts and her mother, Mrs. Lewis B. Long. After games of rook and the beautiful piano selections of Mrs. Woosley, the guests were ushered into the dining room, which was beautifully decorated in pink and white. Fruit salad, cakes, hot chocolate, salted nuts and candy were served by Mesdames Long, Dye, Woosley and Brown. The guests were Misses Kathryn and Elizabeth Potts, Lilly Heeper, Grace Goodrum, Mary Christenbury, Mary Torrence, Sue Mock, Nancy Grey, Percilla Hunt, Elnora Moore, Nina Holt White, Sophia Richards, Mildred Hobbs, Fannie McConnell, Adele and Johnsie Shelton, Lydia Dye, Mesdames Woosley, Brown and Dye. Miss Louise Sloan, daughter of James Lee Sloan, was carried to Statesville, November 25, hurriedly for an operation for appendicitis. The operation, which gives every indication of success, was timely and the report being that any further delay might have been serious. Miss Sloan was taken ill suddenly and without any suspicion of the trouble. Thanksgiving week was observed by the Ladies’ Missionary Society of the Davidson Presbyterian Church as a week of Prayer for Home Missions. Two services were held during the week, one on Monday afternoon, the other Thursday afternoon. To these all the ladies of the church were invited. During the week $75 was raised by the ladies for Home Missions, which is to be given through the regular church channels. Miss Ruby Mock spent Friday in Charlotte shopping.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., - - Atlanta, Georgia

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.

December Columbia Records Now On Sale Here
Get the latest in music while it is the latest.
To make a good record great play it on a Columbia Grafonola.
W. T. McCOY & CO., - Charlotte, N.C.