10

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

Your Last Chance

To buy the best clothes at the cheapest price.

THE TRAYMORE TAILORING CO., of Philadelphia, Pa., is noted for carrying beautiful all-wool fabrics at the most REASONABLE PRICES.

HIS OPENING HERE SEPTEMBER 24 AND 25

SHOWING AT THE

MACAMAC CO.

POWER HOUSE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

S. & W. CAFETERIA

Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices

20 West Trade St.

Charlotte, N. C.

Back the Athletic Association by Trading at the Commissary

Half of all money made on Athletic Goods at the Commissary goes to the Athletic Association.

We carry a full line of all athletic goods. Special orders delivered in 48 hours.

THE COMMISSARY AT THE POWER HOUSE

MEETING THE NEEDS

(Continued from page 1)

...et, lawyer, minister, or any number of other callings.

Third, we should seek a message from God, and as the Bible is one of God's means of speaking to
us, we should search it and consider its truths in determining our attitude toward God, life, and our personal life
work.

Next, we should take the matter to God in prayer; not a formal prayer, but a heart-to-heart talk with the
Father in which we ask His guidance. God is a great architect, and has a plan for the life of
every one of us; we must ask His guidance, however, if we wish to measure up to all the specifications.
Man may partially thwart God's plan for his life here, but he does so at the peril of his happiness
in the world to come. God calls no man to lead a selfish life, but the need for real Christian
service puts a broad challenge before every real man. After we have studied the needs of mankind we should consider
our own capabilities for service, and then, in council with God, we should definitely decide as to how we shall
spend our lives.

“Would you make your life count for most? Then measure the value of a well-spent life, not in the amount
of gold accumulated, but by being able to give a positive answer to the question, ‘Is the world any better
for my having passed this way?’ Consider the grain of corn planted in the ground, and if necessary dare even
to die that you may bring forth fruit to the extent of a hundredfold, for God and a bettered humanity.”

“Dick” Spencer, ‘22, is back after an absence of about six months. It will be remembered that Spencer was one
of the fellows who were injured in that memorable explosion that wrecked 10 Watts. “Dick’s” eyes are still weak from
the effects of too much KCIO, etc., but he is able to see enough to study a little.

Have You Sent in Your Subscription?

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete.

Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam's advice
is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers

Rock Hill, S.C. J. P. QUARLES, Manager

Charlotte, N. C.

Drop in at 34 Chambers and look over our line of PANTS

GREENS, Inc.

Catch You Like This —

Don’t Let “Cop”
