THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 28, 1920. 5

THE SENIORS’ OWN

SOME TRUE FACTS ABOUT THE GREAT AND NEAR-GREAT SENIORS

Philanthropic Calhoun
Mr. L. G. Calhoun hails from the southern part of the South. After finishing his education he expects to settle
down in a cozy little electrically built bungalow and spend the afternoon of his life in dignified repose. His aspirations
are thusly, he is to be a doctor, osteopath, physician, neurologist, and diagnostician. He deeply regrets the inevitable decline of
old D. C. after his departure.

Bob Allison
Robert Turner Allison, first lieutenant of Company A, is s-o-m-e lieutenant. His commands are short and snappy—not only to his
company, but to Fresh as well. He does very nicely as basketball manager, and is reported to have come out
of the season 47 cents in the hole. His Law recitations showed his full knowledge (?) of the subject—anyhow he
got out of his exam on that “crip.” We'll see him again, and until we do let it be au
revoir.

Pap Askew
As the “dynamo for the livest wire on the Hill,” or in plain English, the editor of The Davidsonian, “Pap”
Askew has shown himself one of our best men. However, his association with C. J. Matthews and “Squire” Wilson has
left its mark on him. So instead of becoming a preacher, we look for “Pap” to be the proprietor of
a prosperous business carrying the sign of the three balls. Whatever he may enter, we will hear from him, for
“Pap” has a long head and in spite of his nickname, he has some young ideas. The less we say
of his love affairs the better for all concerned.

Skinney Boney
Elwood Rantz Boney is a native of Kinston, N. C., and has ever shown his intense local patriotism by acknowledging
that fact. This youth of willow form wishes it announced to the feminine world that applications for his hand in
marriage will be received at his home in his native town; application by mail cannot be given his personal attention
but will be handled by a social secretary whose long service enables him to decide always as Boney himself would
do. The young Adonis promises to treat none of these applicants with anything but the tenderest kindness.

High Deputy Puss Booker
Booker, commonly known as “Booker T.,” who having absorbed all the learning possible from Elise, sought further to increase his
knowledge and thus boarded a northbound dusty freight out of Clayton, arriving in Jaybirdsville on the 7:11 local, special. Booker
T. entered the learned halls of Davidson with all the pomp, pride, and glory of a notorious and illustrious Freshman.
To this aspiring youth Fresh. Bible was a crip, but thanks be to R. O. T. C., which allowed him
to walk off Latin. Booker never intends mingling with the Latin-speaking people. Early in life this lad from Clayton decided
to be a “pill roller” and has thus been a close friend of the Science Professors. Though a scientific man
he has received his A.B. degree. Through Booker’s college career he has won many friends and lost a few enemies.
He has been a walking encyclopedia and we challenge any pretty young lady to work her chatterbox any more than
this young M.D. Go to it, and whether you get married or go to the Medical College, may great success
attend your way.

Annual Brown
Buck flagged one of the special slow trains through Arkansas four years ago and after it stopped and Buck was
safely seated he asked the conductor how many more stops before he would be at Davidson College. He entered the
office in the basement of the Library and separated himself from quite a bit of his cash. Buck was a
shining star on the Fresh basketball team, and has won the reputation of a great orator, winning a rep at
both Junior and Senior Speaking. As a business man he has shown himself competent, by so successfully handling the sale
for the Quips and Cranks. He leaves old Davidson with the idea that he is now educated and ready to
show to the world what he has. We say go to it and show ‘em. That’s some ambition, and if
one of them only is his goal, we'll soon be coming for treatment.

Fannie Hall
Frank Price Hall, Jr., is another of Belmont’s industrious sons. He studies not, yet makes good grades. His name Fannie
stuck to him in his Fresh year. He traveled a year—at Annapolis—but decided that the wiles of Davidson could not
be withstood, so back he came, to receive his M. A. Fannie is a cotton mill artist, and he lives
near enough to visit us once a decade or so. Good luck to you.

Tennis Shark Hall
First and foremost among our “Halls of fame” comes the notorious character bearing the cognomen of William Frank. His chief
claim to celebrity lies in the fact that he migrated to Davidson from McCallie School.

along with R. T. B. U. L. Liston. He has held one or two offices, such as football manager and
Senior president of the class of '20, but we will not mention such minor honors here. Frank is a genuine
good fellow and will be missed on the campus next year.

F. W. Hall
President Class '20

Prep Hall
"Prep" or "Major," hails from the great metropolis of Belmont, N. C. From this, we might reach the conclusion that
Prep is a "horse-shoe shark," but strange to say, his talents do not run in that direction. In fact, "Prep"
has vastly deeper problems than that of horse-shoes to deal with. He studied over the stupendous problem of "what would
the number four man in the rear rank do upon receiving the command, Squads right," for three consecutive days. Finally,
after asking everybody's opinion upon the matter, after drawing numberless diagrams and after constant thought, Prep came to the conclusion
that the number four man in the rear rank would not move a muscle when this order was given, but
quietly wait for the command, march. Nobody but a military genius could arrive at such a decision and Prep has
ably shown this in the efficient way in which he handled the R. O. T. C. as major for the
last year. Not only in military lines but in everything else Prep will find success, for his traits are of
the type that command it.

W. M. Hall, better known as Jack

Canby Hamilton
In "Wally" we see the making of a second Zane Grey, or Harold Bell Wright. Such things as winning fiction
medals, writing essays, etc., are everyday occurrences for him. But don’t think he confines himself to his pen. A man
has to go south to show Ham any stunts on a mandolin or guitar. In addition, he belongs to the
far-famed R. O. T. C. Band. His motto is: "Let the Reds rule."

Harrell the Ox
"Did you ask who that handsome man playing the trombone is? Why, that is the celebrated Ox Harrell, the man
who put the run in Doerun (Ga.). A good speaker? I should say, he will be a second H. B.
Dendy. A ladies’ man? I never saw a better. He broke six hearts at the Volunteer Conference. His ambition? He
expects to go and preach to some poor heathen Japanese. Did you mean that? You really want to meet him?
I see you've flopped like the rest of them do. Let’s go."

Tommy Hawkins
"Tommy" is our golf and tennis "stud," as might well be imagined as he comes from the Queen City. Not
only does he play tennis and golf, but Tommy is unusually fond of the humble occupation of fishing. When the
dogwood begins to bloom and the trees are beginning to bud, Tommy can be seen every afternoon with a pole
over his shoulder and his "Johnny pipe" stuck in his mouth making for the creek, and some say that he
will sit for hours without ever getting a bite. Tommy and the above-mentioned pipe are always seen together and neither
is ever seen without the other. He makes friends with everybody and there’s not a boy on the campus that
does not know Tommy Hawkins.

"Scrub" Hollandsworth
Scrub hails from the "Old Dominion" state, and it is difficult to correlate this nickname with his services in "Pershing's
Own" regiment. Undoubtedly here is a person in whom extremes meet. Scrub is a man of regular habits. Once each
month, sometimes more, sometimes less, he took a weekend journey over the Winston-Salem division of the Southern; returning at 11:50
a.m. Monday (except once when the engine was found to be without water, and Scrub got two class cuts as
a result). He attended Bitzer’s Bible class on third floor Watts regularly, except on above-mentioned dates.

Coy(o)te Hunter
Contrary to what his name almost indicates, Coyte adheres to the quiet life except when he takes an occasional bold
venture with the fair sex (John M. McCormack’s concert in Charlotte). It is in the field of oratory, however, that
this ex-soldier is so well and favorably known at D. C. (Feminine) "Customs in Wartime Europe," delivered before the Phi.
Society; a joint debate with a representative of the faculty on, Resolved: That the Students Should Have a Holiday on
the Anniversary of Armistice Day, delivered before a "bolsheviki" meeting of students; and his "Rep" winning Senior Oration, are a
few of his masterpieces.

Baldy Jamison
Dr. John M. Jamison is one of the most interesting of Davidson's recently acquired alumni. And his erudition in his
particular and peculiar field of study has attracted much attention; his monograph on "Cannibalism as a Fine Art," has been
pronounced one of the best works of its kind yet published, embodying as it does the results of his seven
years of investigation in the Fiji Islands. Dr. Jamison’s private virtues are as pronounced as his public ones. In politics,
he is ever constructive: he voted for the recent statute which created the city of Myers Park, N. C., a
flourishing Carolina town, the population of which he swells by his presence.

Sleeping Beauty Liston
To R. T. L. Liston, our noted orator from Alabama, we yield the palm for prowess in capturing nicknames. He
came to Davidson bearing the sobriquet, "Sleepy." But his talents were soon recognized and he became known as "R. T.
B. U. L.," "Marcus Porcius Cato," and "Latin Liz." Education would certainly be more in demand could everyone capitalize his
classical knowledge as he has done. He has carved himself a niche in Davidson’s walls. And, we vainly look for
one to fill his place.

President McAlister
Among the best men to leave Davidson as graduates is Lacy McAlister, otherwise known as "Ikey." Lacy was an active
man in the student body and in athletics. In the fall of 1918, he won his football D as a
halfback and this year added a star to his letter. During his Fresh year, Lacy was president of his class
and this year is president of the student body. Because he is known as the hardest man on the hill,
very few Fresh dare to call him "Ikey," even if they bought suits from him. Lacy is of the type
that characterizes Davidson and will add honor to any institution.

Dug McArn
Behold before us our singing ball player, The Caruso of the diamond. This first-sacker is a terror to the enemy,
a bulwark of strength to his team. His prowess as a son of Orpheus is so established that he holds
a place on our world-famed quartet. His past has been great, but we predict a still brighter future. If he
goes into business, he cannot but succeed. (For reference, ask those who boarded at Mrs. Brady’s). We wish him best
luck as next year he goes to McCallie to teach and on the side to send men to Davidson.

Bishop McClure
We have many preachers in embryo, but there is only one in our midst who has had any real experience
and training, and that is Bishop. Mac is safe at a distance, but at close range his tongue is deadly.
He is a great ladies’ man, as Flora Macdonald can testify. Bishop hopes to end up on the mission field.
Here’s hoping he will be as fluent in Siamese as he is in English. If he is, poor natives!

Treasurer Gus McGirt
Chiefest of Eumenean soap-box orators, greatest of diplomats, highest of statesmen—C. A. McGirt, now in deed and in truth launches
out into the deep. He announces that he will not be guilty of the crime against humanity of remaining single
till he is twenty-three years of age.

War Hero Nichols
Nick is our star athlete. When it comes to horse-shoes, marbles and mumble-peg there is not a man in the
class of '20 who can hold a light to him. There is one game, however, of which we have never
found him guilty: pitching Nickles. Nick is also a ladies’ man, being at the time of writing off on a
sporting tour to Barium Springs and other points which are as yet unknown.

Principal Cooke Neal
We don’t see a great deal of Professor Neal since he took up his new work of imparting his knowledge
to the Davidson Graded School, but we do get a glance at him promenading with the fair sex, his "co-workers."
He’s not the kind that shoots a long line about the ladies, "but when you get him alone," my, "Phil"
hasn't a chance in a hundred. As all A. E. F. ex-soldiers, you can safely bet that "Cook" got much
valuable experience from his promenades with the French mademoiselles of gay Paris.

Fleet-footed Outfielder Richards
Behold the lad from Liberty Hill! One doesn’t often see a product from the sandhills with any "force," but Johnnie
has proven to us that a

(Continued on page 8)
