seem like “tooting your own horn.” The DAVIDSONIAN editor wishes to make it plain that the success of the past
year was due to the co-operation of all the various departments and parties concerned. As to the future, we can
only wish that the best possible year which the publication has ever had. Founded by Class of '15 “The Livest
Wire on the Hill” Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as
Mail Matter of the Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

GENTLEMEN? Some men are born gentlemen, others are bred so; some belong to neither of these classes. Some always have
themselves in hand and act on all occasions as becomes a gentleman, some at times forget themselves and do things
for which they are afterwards genuinely sorry, some do not care one way or the other, while some make rudeness
and ungentlemanly conduct a characteristic of which they are egotistically proud. On the evening of March 18 we gathered in
Shearer Hall to enjoy the concert given by the Greenville Woman's College Glee Club. Due to unavoidable circumstances, the entertainment
was late in beginning, and in the meantime, we sang, yelled, laughed, and in every way had a good time.
As to this, it was enjoyed by all present and of it no one could criticize. Nothing that the audience
as a whole engaged in could be deemed as other than proper. However, there is a time for all things,
and as the majority of those present were either ladies or gentlemen, the majority of those present knew in a
moment when the time had come to turn the program over to the proper authorities. They of course acted accordingly.
To expect so much from all those present may have been asking too much. This though was the courteous thing
to do, and certainly one may rightly expect courtesy from gentlemen. At all events, there were present those who, if
they were gentlemen, seem not to agree with this statement. If they are not gentlemen, there is no contention. Having
read this far, few will entertain any doubt as to what is the object of this article.

A feed for the whole student body in the new gym. How’s that for class? The proposition stands up to
the trustees that “No matter how many dormitories you build, we'll guarantee to fill them up.” THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25,
1920.

We hope that it will not wish that the best possible year which we predict still further growth both in
size and in the quality of the news. With the firm foundation on which the paper is resting at present,
we can see nothing but a brilliantly successful future. Again, we wish to say to the student body that we
appreciate your hearty support and co-operation; to the new staff that we wish you the best luck possible.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Trinity Adopts Compulsory Exercise With the opening of spring athletics, every student of Trinity will enlist for some form of
athletic exercise. According to the plan, three hours of physical exercise will be required each week, for which credit for
one hour’s academic work is given. Men on varsity squads and in the R. O. T. C. will be allowed
to count this as their exercise. Tennis, golf, baseball, track, and gymnasium work are some of the forms open to
students. Trinity recently won the state championship by defeating N. C. State College by the close score of 25 to
24. The game was played on the large auditorium floor in Raleigh—“Trinity Chronicle.”

Kentuckians Are Progressing. The University of Kentucky is adopting several new plans which seem to have unusual advantages. One of
these is a new athletic council composed of faculty members, students, and three citizens of Lexington. Among its duties are
the awarding of letters, supporting high school tournaments, attracting visitors and alumni to contests, and maintaining a trophy room for
pictures, records, and trophies of athletic teams. Another progressive movement is the adoption of track sports by the co-eds. They
have already arranged meets with the University of Cincinnati.

SINGING IN CHAPEL. Don’t let the spring fever get hold of you quite yet or some other fever may get
you about exam time.

A BIGGER AND BETTER DAVIDSON. The above motto was very happily adopted last year as the goal for the Greater
Davidson Club. A year has passed since first this slogan was used and we are now in a position to
look back upon the fruits of our efforts. So far as the enrollment figures are a fair test, there is
no reason for argument on the first part. Bigness, however, may be measured in other ways than by the actual
number of men in attendance. Likewise, the question of whether Davidson is better or not can hardly be measured by
the “Y” attendance or Bible class enrollment. Now then, what can make us big? Ample facilities, adequate equipment, and a
brilliant athletic record help to supplement the registration figures. Then too, the quality of the men turned out will go
a long way toward determining the size of a college in the eyes of the world. Of all the splendid
tributes that can be paid to Davidson College, its alumni stand forth above everything else as the living monument of
an institution bigger in work than in the number of men enrolled. The problem for our present consideration is whether
by our work and conduct we are preparing ourselves to make Davidson bigger before the world or are we suffering
our talents to lie in idleness while others are multiplying them in useful service.

As usually considered, the word “better” involves the idea of higher morality and a deeper interest in scholastic and religious
work. In some respects, this part of our ambition has been realized but the opportunities for further development are unlimited.
Our classroom work this year has not been up to the proper standard and could hardly compare very favorably with
the work of former years. Perhaps there has been some improvement during the spring term, but not sufficient to be
called satisfactory. Unnecessary absences have been a fruitful source of demoralization. In religious work, the presence of a secretary on
the campus has been an inestimable help toward the maintenance of the “Y” work. The president also has contributed a
most necessary part to its remarkable success. Though there can be no argument as to the success of this service,
there is still further room for the growth of a deeper religious spirit. Herein lies the most attractive virtue of
our student body spirit. This spirit of gentlemanly conduct and morality has been the basis of our claims of having
a superior student body. Careful guard should be kept thatThis spirit in no wise may suffer a backset. Almost innumerable
are the ways in which we can become bigger and better. One of the first methods is to make yourself
both bigger and better and your college will benefit accordingly. Such things as our honor system, our spirit, our scholarship,
and general conduct can easily bear some improvement. Let us not be satisfied with our present numbers, more students will
be a great thing, but above all things get lined up right and boost for a better as well as
bigger institution.

GREETINGS TO THE NEW STAFF.

As this issue is the last for which the present administration is responsible, it seems altogether fitting that we indulge
in a few words of retrospect and of prophecy. Probably a few words of apology would be more appropriate. The
appreciation of the staff should be expressed for the hearty support with which the student body has rewarded their efforts.
Their co-operation was essential to success and there can be no complaint from the staff on this ground. The success
of The Davidsonian this year—if it has been a success—cannot be claimed by any one man. The efficient corps of
staff men has been untiring in their efforts to fill the paper with interesting news. The “Reporters’ Club” has also
done its work cheerfully and successfully. Perhaps the hardest work, however, was done by the business department, which has made
possible the increase in the size of each edition and the placing of the paper on a safe financial basis.
The circulation department has also carried on its work without a single hitch. During the past year the “Davidsonian” has
grown from a four-column paper of six pages to a five-column paper of eight pages. Several additions have been put
out containing ten and twelve pages each. The placing on the staff of a most capable photographer has greatly improved
the quality of the paper.

Everyone will remember that when the hall was quieting down for the concert to begin there were two or three
who persisted in making remarks about the singers, who gave catcalls as various numbers were about to be started, who
talked aloud purposely during the entire program, and succeeded in making themselves disagreeable in every way. This does not represent
in the least the spirit of the college, but the college gets the blame, the college, the Davidson student body,
and the individual students are held responsible not only for something they have not done, but for something which they
as gentlemen would never think of doing. The two or three men to whom this refers alone know who they
are. They alone know to which of the above-mentioned classes they belong and may classify themselves accordingly. They may be
gentlemen who forgot themselves and who now are sorry, they may not care one way or the other, they may
be proud of their rudeness and disrespect; but at all events, their conduct was not that which becomes a gentleman
and a student of Davidson College. It is possible that the above criticism is unjust. The men referred to may
be of the highest type of gentlemen and were possibly honest in their endeavor to add a little life to
a program which may have seemed to them a little slow and dry. If this is true, they will upon
second consideration remember that to center the attention wholly on two events at once is impossible, and as a result,
neither can be fully appreciated. It might not be a bad idea to store up all their witticisms, clever remarks,
etc., and present them at a time when they would derive the full credit for their entertainment and would not
be forced to share the glory of their accomplishments.

L. L. McAlister.

Up until about a year ago, it was the custom to sing a hymn every morning in chapel. For some
unknown reason, this part of the service was dropped last spring. I would like to know why this was done
and if it wouldn’t be a good thing to reinstall it. I am sure some of the boys would be
glad to form a choir to lead in the singing. The chapel service would be so much more interesting with
this feature renewed. This is a vital part of the chapel program and it seems to me that we should
be willing to give two or three minutes a day to the offering up of praises to God in this
manner. Think it over fellows and if you are interested in a better chapel, write an article giving your views
on the subject.

Triple X.

W. O. W. mellow French briar, which is burning through, in quality of ship and design. dealer's. Smoke a the
smokejoy which DC Pipes are certainly every man seeks. Cincinnati and Louisville College. The faculty members of the university have
organized a social club, called the “University Club.” It is here that the professors will come together with a spirit
of freedom and fellowship impossible to foster in other ways. Such an organization is an asset to a school and
should be encouraged in every way.—"The Kentucky Kernel.”

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

The Modern Girl.

We knock and we criticize her,
We scold, apostrophize her,
We wish that she were wiser,
More capable and kind.
Her paths we're always stalking,
To criticize her talking,
Her clothes, her ways of walking,
Her manners and her mind—
We say, “Oh, high and mighty!
She’s frivolous and flighty,
And all her ways are mighty
Undignified to see.
She dances and she chatters,
Our golden rule she shatters,
And laughs at serious matters,
With unabated glee.
We chide and we correct her,
We shadow and detect her,
We study and dissect her,
With all her smiles and tears;
And find on looking o’er her,
(And learning to adore her),
She’s just like girls before her,
For twenty thousand years.
—"Cardinal & Cream.”

How to Manage a Girl by Electricity

When your girl is sulky and will not talk—Excite her.
If she gets too excited—Control her.
If she talks too long—Interrupt her.
If her way of thinking is not yours—Convert her.
If she loves you—Compress her.
If she tries to deceive you—Detect her.
If she wishes to come halfway—Meet her.
If she will come all the way—Receive her.
If she wants to go further—Conduct her.
If she wants chocolates—Feed her.
—Wm. Jowett Student.

When ice cream grows on macaroni trees,
When Sahara’s sands grow muddy,
When cats and dogs wear B. V. Dees;
That’s the time I like to study.
—The Lariat.

Discovered!

I've read the plays of Shakespeare,
I’ve enjoyed the lays of Scott;
And the brutish melodrama
Turns the blood from cold to hot;
The “Red Book” I have oft perused,
And the wicked tales of Rupert Hughes.
The “Cosmo” has my patronage,
I truly love the “Post,”
I've pored o’er every magazine
They print from coast to coast.
Yes, the “Blue Book” and the
“Green Book,”
And every Motion Screen book.
But the greatest piece of fiction
Is the college catalog;
To the unsuspecting reader
(Continued on page 7)

aman’s smoke. They briar’s in the guaranteed against cracking or bit and band, and in workmanship and design. Select several
shapes today at any good dealer's. Smoke a cool one every time.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
