THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1920

DEBATE PRELIMINARY IN EU. SOCIETY

Seven contestants presented themselves last Wednesday evening, October 27, for the forensic fray in the Eumenean debating society. It was
the regular time for the selection of the Junior-Senior team, and also for choosing those from whom the intercollegiate debaters
will be elected to oppose Randolph-Macon here December 7. The query, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should for a period
of twenty years prohibit all immigration of Japanese laborers to this country or any of its possessions,” was fiercely and
relentlessly knocked about by every wind of Sophism known in the catalogue of fallacious logic. Since the incongruity of the
many points brought out prevents an adequate summary of the arguments being made, be it said that several of the
speakers upheld nobly the lasting reputation bequeathed to that venerable society by R. T. L. Liston. Mitchell's speech was easily
the best and most beautiful exhibition given. His characteristic fluency and grace again won him his position. Boulware and Bitzer,
however, ran him close seconds. But the surprise of the evening came when P. D. Miller, official time-keeper, beckoned to
a member of the audience to take his place as custodian of the watch, and descended most terribly upon his
unsuspecting rivals. Though Miller spoke extempore, he succeeded in convincing the judges that he was one of the best debaters
there. Miller's name had not appeared with the prepared list of artists, which was composed of: A. M. Mitchell, J.
R. Boulware, R. Bitzer, E. B. McGukin, J. P. Price, F. L. Frazer, and D. B. Walthal. Mitchell was ineligible
for the Junior-Senior team, on account of being a member of one of last year's intercollegiate outfits. The judges rendered
a long delayed decision, announcing the following men as winners: For the intercollegiates, A. M. Mitchell and R. Bitzer, with
J. R. Boulware as alternate; for the Junior-Senior team—R. Bitzer, J. R. Boulware, and P. D. Miller, with J. P.
Price as alternate.

DAVIDSON DOWNS CITADEL.
(Continued from page 1)

and continued to push the Wildcats back making their second touchdown, when Jarvis went through Davidson’s line and ending the
game with Kullock failing to kick goal.

For Citadel, Jarvis and Frost played fine games in the backfield, making most of their gains. Jarvis finally succeeded in
putting the pigskin across Davidson's goal for two touchdowns. Brady, the stalwart Wildcat center, was Davidson's mainstay in the defensive
and was a power in the offensive. His good kicking netted three points for the Red and Black. Romefelt at
left guard was also a force in the line. Clary, by his continued long end runs, did fine work in
the backfield and with the assistance of Bethea, McFadden, Shepherd, and Long carried the Wildcats to victory.

The line-up and summary:
Citadel 13: Davidson 27:
Positions:
Whitaker .......... Faison Left End
Heinsohn (C) .... Hammett (C) Left Tackle
Watson .......... Romefelt Left Guard
Marshall .......... Brady Center
Jeter .......... La Far Right Guard
Gromling .......... Davis Right Tackle
R. Lee .......... Douglas Right End
Frost .......... Sizer Quarter
Jarvis .......... Clary Right Half
Wulbern .......... Bethea Left Half
Kollock .......... W. Shepard Full Back

Substitutes—Davidson: McFadden for Sizer; Dantzler for McFadden; Long for Bethea; Hamer for La Far; Clark for Romefelt; Carter for Davis;
Richards for Douglas, and Dick for Faison. Citadel: Rogers for Kollock; Eude for Heinsohn; Simmons for Lee; O. Shaughnessy for
Watson.

Time of quarters: 15 minutes; Referee: “Rip” Major (Auburn); Umpire: Osborne (Wofford); Head linesman, Jackson (City College, Baltimore); Time keepers:
Oates (Davidson); and Bradstreet (Auburn.)

ST. CLAIRE SISTERS.
(Continued fromPage 1) Until she came back with that little song about “The Apples on the Lilac Bush”—it re-established her
in popular favor. The finale was not “grand” but it was a bit unusual and sent the crowd away in
a pleasant mood. As a whole, it was an excellent show, and it is only hoped that the future numbers
of the course will measure up to it.

INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATING (Continued from page 1)
The intercollegiate finals: C. K. Brown, J. H. McKeithen, with F. V. Long as alternate. For the Junior-Senior debate between
societies, the following were selected: J. H. McKeithen, F. V. Long, C. G. Long, and D. W. Roberts as alternate.
The Junior-Senior debate is scheduled to be held on November 16.

Have You——
Heard “The Amorous Tale of Tally Elliot at Rock Hill?”
Heard that “C. J.” rode sixty miles around Charlotte the first night?
Heard that Kappa Pi has initiated T. M. Lowry and has pledged several more men?
Heard that Cassell made two speeches at Rock Hill—only one accepted?

In English.
“How long did the action last?”
Hard Rock—“All thru the play.”

Tom Spence says that he has a cinch. “It is a crip to run Oak Ridge,” we are told.

Cheered that appointment due to my visit to the Camel.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Wait For This CATALOG
FALL-WINTER SPORTS
PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES, and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS
JAN GARBER
Owner and Director
Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

At the home of Miss Charlotte Hunt, there was a ghostly gathering of the witches Saturday night.

Professor Hunt suffered a painful accident in the laboratory last week. A nail flying up and striking his eye caused
temporary blindness.

Dr. Richards and Professor Currie represented the Davidson Church at the recent meeting of the North Carolina Synod at Wilmington.

Mrs. N. T. Smith has just returned from New York and Washington, where she has been visiting her sons.
