8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1920.

Interesting Program For Opening of Lyceum Season

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson fought hard in this quarter and the half ended with the ball in their possession about mid-field.

Ralph Bingham, another number on the program, has been making large audiences laugh and still is in the prime of life. This is accounted for by the fact that his first appearance was at the age of six.

The second half opened with Davidson receiving. Schenck returned the kick-off about 10 yards. Davidson couldn't gain and was forced to kick. The punt went to mid-field. Washington and Lee worked the ball down to the 25-yard line, where Silverstein again put the oval between the posts. From then on to the end of the game the fracas was simply an exchange of punts with the ball in Davidson’s territory most of the time.

The line-up:

Wash. & Lee Position Davidson
McDonald L. E. Schenck
Moore L. T. Hammett
Patterson L. G. LaFar
Paget C. Brady
Larrow R. G. Romefelt
Sanford R. T. Davis
Herndon R. E. Douglas
Silverstein Q. B. Moore
Tucker L. H. Shepard
Raines R. H. Cassell
Mattox F. B. Poe

Score — Washington and Lee 3 0 3 0—6
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Summary—Substitutions: For Davidson, McFadden for Cassell, Miley for Douglas, Douglas for Moore, Dantzler for Shepard, Massey for Poe, Moore for Douglas, Douglas for Miley, Shepard for Dantzler, Shepherd, W. S., for Massey. For W. & L., Leak for Herndon, Herndon for Leak, Henderson for Paget, Coghill for Tucker, Riley for McDonald.

Referee: Robertson, of Roanoke; Umpire: Williams, of Virginia.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. E. K. Thomas, who has been spending the summer with Mrs. M. A. Henderson, has returned to her home, Canton, Ohio.

Mr. C. W. Worth, ’20, was on the Hill a few hours Thursday. He expects to enter the Seminary this fall.

Mrs. Houston Brown, and little daughter Grace, are visiting relatives in Texas.

We were very glad indeed to see the familiar face of Major Mueller back with us last week. He is assigned to the Sixth Cavalry, Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.

W. S. Ratchford, ex-'22, is now at Hampden-Sidney. He was playing for Douglas.

Ralph Bingham, years ago, traveled as the “Boy Orator of America.” His appearances number nearly 10,000 on the American platform. T. De Witt Talmage, after hearing Bingham, said: “Bless Bingham and all the apostolic college of humorists. The man that makes me laugh is my benefactor. God bless all skillful punsters, all those who mirthfully surprise us with unusual juxtaposition of words. Theirs is a divine mission.”

Mr. Bingham is an impersonator, a humorist, a violinist, a pianist, and a vocalist. Doors open at 7:30. The performance will begin at 8:00 sharp. Season tickets, $2.00. Single admission, 60c.

DAVIDSON HONORED.

(Continued from page 1)

thorpe, Georgia, in the cavalry, to which branch of the service he is now assigned.Service he is going to remain in to the end, according to his assertion. While at Davidson, no one could have worked more earnestly or with more zeal for the best interests of the R.O.T.C. and the college than did the Colonel, and it was with genuine regret that we learned of his transfer last summer. He was into everything at all times, and the one who could get ahead of him in anything was doing good. Though by no means easy, he was well liked by all on the campus, and the best wishes of the student body as well as the R.O.T.C. go with him to his new position.

HANDSOME MEMORIAL
(Continued from page 1)

The exercises were most fittingly arranged and carried out, opening with prayer, followed by a speech by Rev. Richard S. Burwell, pastor of Hopewell Presbyterian Church, on the History of Hopewell Church, General Davidson’s home church, and its connection with the Revolution. This was followed by a speech by Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, on the connections of General Davidson with this institution, which was named in his honor. Dr. Martin spoke to the praise of General Davidson. He also referred to the long and valued services of William Lee Davidson, a son of General Davidson, as a trustee of the college, and who at his death left a large sum of money to the college. The exercises closed with a masterly sketch of the life of General Davidson, by Rev. A. A. McGeachy, D.D., of Charlotte, N.C. During and after the exercises, the Davidson College Band gave many appropriate selections.

Tomorrow, I'm going to use some of the best $6.00 halfback in the recent V.M.I.-Hampden-Sidney football game. Here is a case where more tobacco is needed. Making eighteen different schedules, it appears many are worth, said the one high print that there were more than 350,000 cigarettes, fortunately raw attractors. Now it took sympathy to find—and thousands of those are military dollar bills, got Camels and 50 Camel Turkish and American blend.

PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES, and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS

JAN GARBER
E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Owner and Director
Business Manager
Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N.C.

Have You Sent in Your Subscription?

Look today around the grounds. It is a down town habit of clowning, putting it into a set. Canola, ex-patent grade, it blends and flows. Pred fondly the land. Ruynalle, for Oud, now Alnacun Wet Shee.