PRE-OPENING SEPT. 7 & 8
THEDA L. ISSUE ONIA Vol. VIII.

President Martin Welcomes
DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., AUGUST 18, 1920.

Davidson Spirit Rings True in Letter
The Old and New Men

To the Davidson Students:

A few words as to the coming year will, I hope, be of interest to you. A hearty welcome to the best the college has to offer awaits all, both old and new students. I trust you come in the spirit that will enable each man to achieve the best results from the year’s work.

We shall be crowded—it seems to be Davidson's fate just now. We are turning a distressingly large number away, but we must not overcrowd. Conditions this year will call for the best in each one of you, but with the old Davidson spirit behind you and a manly determination on the part of each man to do his best and to see that every other man has the fullest and freest opportunity to do his best, we shall make it the greatest year we have had and a stepping stone to a higher and greater life for the college.

We have not yet been able to do all we wished and had in mind to do; but we have done all we could do under the circumstances to prepare for the “Bigger and Better Davidson.” The new laundry promising a greater convenience and a more hygienic care of clothing will be ready at the opening, so Mr. Jackson reports. Miss Shumaker’s Boarding House is being enlarged to care for 150 to 200 men and the board will be given at as low a price as possible for good and wholesome fare. The college will not conduct this or any boarding place, but owning the house we have enlarged it and put it into the hands of Miss Shumaker to give the best board at the lowest possible price.

It was found early last spring that it would be impossible to build this year the new dormitory, which we have all felt the need for. The money for this purpose, while pledged, had not been collected; furthermore, if we had the money in hand it would have been impossible to build in time for use this session. So universally did it appear that the old students were returning this fall that it soon became evident that either we must take half or less the number of new men accepted last year, which would have given us the smallest Freshman Class in the last ten years, or we must provide quarters for more students, and accept at least a total of 500. The latter course was decided to be the wisest. We are erecting 32 temporary but quite comfortable rooms which will accommodate 64 or more students. These are so built that we believe they will be the quietest rooms on the campus. Four rooms open on a common hall which has toilet conveniences in one end. There are four units of this kind adjoining but not communicating and there are two rows of these units. They are in the grove just east of the water tower. Even with this it was found that to house the 500 it called for quite a number of rooms to have three occupants. None of us like this arrangement, but most high grade and popular colleges are having just now to suffer it. We believe that Davidson men will have backbone enough to preserve order and retain a student atmosphere in their rooms. We are counting on you to do this for your own sake and in the interest of your college. Is it not a fine thing that so many from such a wide area want to come to Davidson? Let us all strive earnestly to preserve those high ideals and splendidly wholesome conditions which have given the college such a priceless reputation. You can do it even under the crowded conditions and I believe you will. Just as soon as possible we will build more dormitories, classrooms, and laboratories.

We will have three new teachers this year, and Dr. J. W. MacConnell again takes up his classes. Dr. Frazer Hood comes to us from Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. He is a southern man who taught in Tennessee until called into war work. He is a graduate of Southwestern Presbyterian University and Johns Hopkins University and will teach two courses each in Education and Psychology. Prof. Edward J. Erwin is called to the second chair of English and will make a splendid running mate for Dr. Shewmake. He has been for some years Associate Professor of English in the University of Mississippi and for one year was head of the department in the absence of the senior professor. Mr. Erwin knows Davidson, having there received the Bachelor and Master’s degrees with honor. He was, for two years, a student in Columbia University, New York, and this summer is at the University of Chicago. Dr. E. A. Byers comes to us to teach German and Spanish. He received his degrees from the University of Nebraska. If we are able to judge from correspondence we shall have in him a splendid teacher, a kindred spirit and a helpful friend. These all will throw their lives into the college and join with the faculty of longer tenure at Davidson to serve the students to the best of their ability.

Never did the college face a brighter future, never have we had so large a faculty nor one better equipped for service, and never have we had so large a student body nor a better one. College opens September 9. Let us all come to put every man his shoulder to the wheel, to push the old college onward and upward.

Y. M. C. A. WILL BE ON JOB EARLY.

Less than a month until Davidson opens! The Y. M. C. A. is eagerly looking forward to seeing the old men again and to knowing the new men. It is good to think of being together on the campus—pretty as it was when we left this Spring—to renew old friendships and form new ones. This year Davidson is preparing for the largest enrollment in her history. Not only is she preparing for a “bigger Davidson” but for a “better Davidson.” The Davidson spirit, which after all is something of the spirit of the Master, must ever be cherished. In this the “Y” would have its part. It is the purpose of the “Y” to work for Jesus Christ on the campus—to introduce men to Him and to strengthen those who know Him. We would caution the new men even before entering to “stand fast in the faith, quit ye like men, be strong.” It is an easy matter in the busy routine and crowded days of college life to drift away if you neglect the Master in your own life. In the “Y” work this year we will greatly miss Mr. Miles assecretary. Every effort has been made by the Board of Control to secure just the right man to take his place but so far these efforts have been unsuccessful. The Board has not ceased its efforts, however, and may yet have a secretary to greet you on your return to Davidson. In any event, we need not be discouraged for with the full cooperation of the men we have at Davidson, as well as that of the faculty, the work of the “Y” can and will go forward. After all, it is the spirit of the Master that counts and in Him we are trusting for a great year at Davidson.

Y. M. C. A.
LEWIS SCHENCK, Pres.

T. C. WINTER PASSES AWAY SUDDENLY.

College office has been notified that T. C. Winter died suddenly at his home in Savannah, August 11th. This will come as a shock to the entire student body and the sympathy of his fellow students will go out to the bereaved family.

Davidson by gifts of money—large and small—is the best investment they can possibly make. Dr. Sentelle as Dean will take a good deal of work off my hands. I hope this will give me more time to serve the students in other ways. One result I know it will have: I shall have more time to give to the individual student for conference about his problems. I trust they will use me freely.

In Davidson bonds,
Sincerely your friend,
Wm. J. Martin.

From President of Student Body

New Men Will Be Quickly Introduced to College Spirit.

From all reports, those men who are coming in this year to compose the class of '24 are men who can be counted on to accomplish big things and will doubtless reach and even surpass the standard already set for them by the faculty, the student body, and the College as a whole. But no matter how bright their chances seem for a successful career in our midst, the cooperation of every upper-classman in aiding them is absolutely essential to their welfare. We must remember that for the first few weeks in college, a Freshman is a rank stranger in a very strange land. They know nothing of the tasks they must perform; they have never understood exactly what the words “College Spirit” mean. In other words, they are just as green as you were on first entering school away from home.

These men must be made to feel at home. Each one must be made to feel as though he is a distinct unit in the student body, and that he must lend some service and do some good for the College in return for what she will do for him. The responsibility of instituting such spirit into the minds and hearts of the new men rests almost entirely on the upper-classmen. All of us have been at Davidson long enough to know what “Davidson Spirit” has meant to us and to her. Every new man needs your help in every way you are possibly able to render him aid. So let’s get together, upper-classmen, one and all, and further the interests of our College in every way possible by combining our every effort in soliciting the aid of the entire Freshman Class and making them realize the great responsibility placed upon them in reaching the goal we all expect to attain.

A. L. Currie,
President of Student Body.

ATTENTION FOOTBALL MEN.

Dear Men:

In view of the fact that college will not open until September 9, and that our first game is a heavy one, it has been deemed wise to call all men who expect to go out for football back for early season practice. The first practice will begin on the afternoon of September 1. Forty-five of the old men have agreed to return early and I hope that as many of the new men as possible will endeavor to get in by that time. Arrangements have been made for rooms and board. Uniforms will not be issued until the third day of practice so bring a baseball uniform or a track suit along if you can get one. With what information I have, everything looks pretty good for a fair season, though it is impossible to make any definite statement this far ahead. We have several difficult knots to untie and our chances will be greatly increased with an early start. All of the football equipment has been ordered and most of it has already arrived. We have better equipment and much more of it than ever before. Arrangements have been made for a training table and so all that remains is for us to get back and get to work and I feel sure that when the smoke has cleared away we will not find ourselves at the bottom of the list, by any means.

With best wishes to you all, I am,
Sincerely yours,
H. M. Grey.

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB

In the absence of a secretary, I am writing to let you know that our slogan “500 students for 1920-1921” is practically realized. Dr. Martin has written that 500 students have been entered for next year and that the college cannot take any more. The Greater Davidson Club does not claim all the credit for this large enrollment, but unquestionably you have done your part and deserve much credit. I am sending this brief word to remind you that the motto of our Club includes not only the plan to make Davidson bigger, but also to make it better. Now that we have helped to make the college bigger, let us stress the second part of our motto and do our best to make it better. For Davidson not to grow better as it grows bigger would be a serious misfortune. We must take a firmer stand than ever for all those fine characteristics and traditions of our campus life which, taken together, make up what we call the “Davidson Spirit.” These traditions include honesty and truthfulness in our class work; fair play and clean sportsmanship in all athletic contests; friendliness and democracy in all student relations and activities; and that respect and regard for the rights of others which characterizes the conduct of every Christian gentleman. In our resolution last spring we agreed to practice these things in our contact with each other and with the public. Beginning with the day you leave home to enter college, bear in mind what we resolved to do and to be, and let us live up to our resolution. We have helped to make Davidson bigger, and now have a splendid opportunity to make it better. I believe you will embrace the opportunity.

With best wishes always, I am,
Sincerely yours,
J. M. McConnell.

President Martin and his family have been occupying their cottage at Montreat. Dr. Martin spent the month of June at his office in Davidson and has made frequent trips back and forth since.

START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT BY BEING ON TIME