Give Team Good Send-Off Monday

Keep Up That Millionaire Talk

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 22, 1920. No. 16

Davidson Students Show Great Love for Their College---Exceed Quota by 10 Per Cent---Over $11,000 Raised

Report From Headquarters at Power House Heralds Campaign as Great Success—Final Figures Expected to be Between $11,000 and $13,000

Davidson Solidly Behind President

“That certainly was fine.” At midnight, Monday, the 19th, Davidson’s $10,000 gift for Davidson was $11,025, with about 35 fellows
to be seen. The results were rather slow in coming in, but all doubts about raising and exceeding the proposed
amount were dispelled when first floor Watts turned in $1,135—her quota was $433. This was the star floor in college,
and no one group even tried to keep up with these bloated bond-holders of Watts. Only two sections came under
the expectations, and all the rest were there with the goods. The power house was a very popular resort from
9:30 to 12 the night of the campaign, and second floor Georgia vied with north wing Chambers, third floor, in
telling by what amount their quota was exceeded. And after the excitement had died down, someone started it anew by
suggesting another holiday. We got it from chapel.

When the canvassers met in chapel to lay plans for the campaign, $1,150 was raised in the group as a
starter, and with the good work started the money just rolled in with very little coaxing. Georgia leads with a
grand total of $2,443.

The following is the list of dormitories with amounts given:
Georgia ------------------- $2,443
Watts --------------------- $2,260
Chambers—North Wing ---- $1,913
Rumple ------------------- $1,696
Chambers—South Wing ---- $1,657
Louisiana and Town ------- $1,056
Total --------------------- $11,025

Straw Vote Shows Student Body Believes in its Famous Alumnus

According to the straw vote recently taken in the colleges and universities, the rising generation seems to favor a compromise
plan which will enable the League to go through without more loss of time. The eastern colleges seem to favor
the compromise, and the west is slightly in favor of a compromise, although the Lodge Reservations and the no reservation
tickets are strong there. The South is almost solidly for no reservations. Some 400 colleges all over the land were
asked to vote on the question. Davidson was one of the first 15 to get her returns to the New
York office. The 53 colleges which had reported on January 15 recorded a 60 per cent majority in favor of
the compromise plan. The following voted as listed below:

Davidson ----------------- 246
U. of N.C. ---------------- 719
U. of Ga. ----------------- 472
Columbia ----------------- 1,391
Harvard ------------------ 667
Princeton ----------------- 355
Cornell ------------------- 924
Western ------------------ 203
53 Colleges --------------- 8,979

THIRD ISSUE OUT FIRST WEEK IN FEBRUARY

Additions to Staff to be Made.

The third issue of the Magazine of the present college year will come off the press the first week in
February. Editor Hart says it will be the best ever put out, and he ought to know. All contributions must
be handed to the editor on or before January 25.

“Y” GAMES POSTPONED TO BE PLAYED LATER

The games scheduled with the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. basketball team for the 20th and 24th of this month
are postponed until the middle of February or later. The game scheduled for Tuesday, the 20th, will likely be played
on the 17th of February. These games were postponed by the wishes of Coach Hengeveld. We may expect some lively
contests when they are played, for the Charlotte team is showing up strong this season.

In order to make the work more efficient and original, two more men will be added to the Magazine staff.
Their names will be announced soon. Write something for the Magazine. If you have an idea or a message let
the other students know about it.

CALENDAR

Thursday — “Davidsonians” arrive. Bible Class leaders’ meeting, 6:45 p.m.
Friday — Movies at 6:45 p.m., Mary Pickford in “The Dawn of Tomorrow.”
Saturday — Literary Societies, 6:45 p.m.
Sunday — Bible Classes, 10 a.m. Special music at the “Y” meeting, Mr. Miles, speaker, 6:15 p.m.
Monday — Basketball, Guilford and Davidson, at Guilford.
Tuesday — Basketball, N. C. State and Davidson, at Raleigh.
Wednesday — Basketball, Wake Forest and Davidson, at Wake Forest.

Civic Club Enjoys Two Interesting Addresses.

At the January meeting of the Civic Club, Dr. Connell and Z. K. Justice gave useful talks on conditions at
the Graded School, and about the health of the village. Dr. Justice reported 26 deaths in Davidson during the past
year. Births, during the same period, numbered 35. The club appointed a committee to try to interest the school children
and older citizens in keeping the streets free from waste paper. Mrs. Martin, the newly elected president, being indisposed, Mrs.
Brady presided.

Million Dollar Campaign Progressing Nicely---Indications Point to Success

Winston-Salem Gives $50,000---Greensboro Pledges $100,000

The million dollar campaign will end on the first day of March, and it just has to go to the
million mark, for if it doesn’t Davidson will lose the $150,000 pledged upon that condition. With six weeks yet to
run, a total of $750,000 has been reached. Winston-Salem’s $50,000 has been almost wholly raised up to Friday night, and
it brings the total up to the three-quarters mark. But this week, as Dr. Martin said in chapel, is the
most critical week in the whole campaign. Davidson students have a fund of $10,000 to raise, and if they reach
that goal it is almost certain that Greensboro will come across with her pledge of $100,000. Of course, Greensboro may
do it anyhow, but the pledging of $10,000 by Davidson will help a good deal. Raleigh is now trying to
add $50,000 to the fund, and if these two cities do not disappoint us, it will leave just $50,000 apiece
for Wilmington and Charlotte to give to finish up the million. Davidson will get the $400,000 from the campaign, and
the $150,000 pledged upon condition that the million dollar mark is reached.

First Game of the Season a Red and Black Victory---Carolina Defeated in Determined Contest, 31 to 20

Outcome in Doubt During First Half—Tar Heels Outplayed in Second—Carmichael and Roberts Starsbut it is hoped that this will not
end the generosity of Davidson’s supporters, and that much more than the expected will be given.

Capt. Chalmers
Brilliant Player and Student Always Gives His Best to Davidson
Wherever he leads we are going

1920 basketball team. The gentleman in question entered college in the fall of 1916, but just one entrance did not
suffice this ambitious youth, so he has been entering all the activities of college life ever since, and has done
exceptionally well in whatever he has attempted. Before entering college Chalmers was one of the stars on his prep school
team, and for the first two years at Davidson he was on the scrub team, always giving some (Continued on
page 4)

Des Moines Delegates Deliver Delightful Discourses
Men Speak on Various Phases of the Convention — Great Appeal Made Upon Volunteers

The Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday night was certainly a wonderful one. It was one strong testimony that
the World Volunteer Convention was worthwhile. Every one present was impressed with the messages from this great conference, and the
spirit in which the five Davidson representatives gave them.

Mauze first told of their trip to Des Moines. Practically all of North Carolina's delegates met at Asheville, where they
boarded a special train for the city of the convention. He described the beauty of the rugged and mountainous country
which they crossed in Kentucky. He told of the beauty of the Ohio river as they crossed it by night,
of the silent majesty of the Mississippi, and then of the level plains of the Western States. But soon they
were at their destination, and through the kind hospitality of the citizens of Des Moines were soon registered and reached
the immense coliseum in time for the evening session. This great building had a seating capacity of 10,000 and was
filled at practically every meeting. At the front of the lower floor sat the delegates from foreign countries, while behind
them and in the two balconies sat the delegates from America. Mauze also described the trip home, their stop for
a day in Chicago, and the beautiful scenery which surrounded them on their way home. To him the watchword of
the convention was “Service,” and its message the great need of the world for more foreign missionaries.

Schenck next told of what the convention had meant to him. He said it was the greatest privilege that had
ever entered his life. From the very moment of the opening talk by Dr. Mott a world spirit seemed to
fill the hall, and a clear call came to unselfish service. Each delegate was placed in a position to view
the needs of the world; the great distress of middle Europe, the ravages of Armenia, the pagan millions of Africa
where Mohammedanism is crumbling and the church faces one of its greatest opportunities, the urgent call of India and Japan.
Over half the world has never heard the Gospel; and this half is now groping and seeking for the light.
Pictured by Mott and Eddy, the call to foreign missionary service is one of the greatest opportunities ever offered to
men. Above the voice of duty comes another still clear voice, if we could only hear; and back of that
voice is a person, if we could only see.

Bitzer next reviewed the speeches which were given during the convention. Three meetings were held daily, the morning service in
the coliseum, the afternoon services in the various churches, and the night (Continued on page 5)

In the opening game of her 1920 basketball season, Davidson completely upset the dope by defeating Carolina 31 to 20.
The contest was unusually hard-fought and interesting throughout. The Carolina quint, which had been hailed as probably the best college
team in the South, played good basketball, but the fierce guarding of the entire Davidson team, coupled with the goal
shooting of Roberts, proved to be their undoing. Time and again Carolina’s well-nigh perfect passing system would be broken up
before a Tar Heel could come within shooting distance of the goal.

Honors were about evenly divided in the first half, the University lads holding an 11 to 9 lead at the
end of this period. In this half they did their best playing, their passing being of the finest ever seen
on the local court.

The opening of the second period was not encouraging for the Davidson supporters. On the initial toss-up Carmichael got loose
and shot a basket in the first 15 seconds of play. This score was followed by three goals from fouls
before the Red and Black succeeded in caging the ball a single time. From this point on, however, the old
Davidson fighting spirit exerted itself in a way which brought delight to the heart of every Davidson man. The Tar
Heel forwards were completely smothered by the close guarding of their opponents and were unable to throw another field goal
during the remainder of the game, while Roberts, Romefelt, and Brice found the basket repeatedly.

The game was attended by an unusual number of injuries. Schenck suffered an injured knee during the first half which
will probably keep him out of the line-up for some time. Brice, too, was forced to retire in the latter
part of the game, while Liipfert, star center for the Carolinas, received a cut on the eye which took him
out of the game. Liipfert and Carmichael were the stars for Carolina, the latter throwing 10 out of 13 tries
from fouls. The entire Davidson team played hard, fast basketball and deserves great credit for its work. Roberts, however, was
the outstanding scorer of the evening, making 17 of the 31 points credited to the Davidsonians.

The line-up:
Carolina (20) Position Davidson (31)
Carmichael (12) Hall (6) Right Forward
Shepherd (4) Roberts (17) Left Forward
Liipfert Streibich (2) Center
Douglass Chalmers Right Guard
Morris (4) Schenck Left Guard

Substitutions—Carolina: Griffith for Carmichael, Douglass for Liipfert, Erwin for Douglass. Davidson: Brice (2) for Schenck, Romefelt (4) for Streibich, Shepherd
for Brice. Fouls: Carmichael 10 of 13. Roberts 3 of 4. Referee: Booe, of Davidson. Timekeeper: Dr. Douglass.

W. C. Neel, '20, has been elected principal of the Davidson High School to complete the remaining term of Miss
Maude Vinson.

Why Not Make a Big LEAP FORWARD in Everything This Leap Year?
