THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920.

Printed and Engraved Business Cards and Announcements. We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS. Queen City Printing Co. 14 E. 4th St., Charlotte, N. C.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Reliable Equipment —FOR— Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc. 26 East 42d St., New York City. We want Agents where we are not already represented.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE
New Spring Suits From the shops of “Society Brand”
Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection. Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc. The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street

THE CHALLENGE.
Annie Dent Davis, Greensboro.
A trumpet call is sounding clear, from over plain and hill.
‘Tis calling you; ’tis calling me, to do our Captain’s will.
Oh there’s a battle raging wide, from over sea and land.
Our Leader is the Lord of Hosts. Oh hear His great command
Obey His marching orders that the hosts of right may win
We fight the fiercest foe of all, of unbelief and sin.
He calls for heroes brave and strong to heed His battle cry.
Yes, we must fight to right the wrong, and some must even die.
It may take much of sacrifice to leave our loved ones dear,
To give up all ambition for a future great career.
But thousands made the sacrifice to heed our country’s call.
Shall we, the Lord’s own soldiers, do the very least of all?
A challenge comes for Volunteers, to heed His great command,
To carry His own banner bright into every foreign land.
What tho there may be dangers, or the way seem dark or drear?
Our mighty Leader calls us! Oh who will Volunteer?

“Y” HOLDS VESPER SERVICES. MR. MILES MAKES TALK.
A short vesper service was held in Shearer Hall last Sunday, which was attended not only by the students, but by a number of fair visitors as well. Mr. Miles read the sixth chapter of Matthew, and made a short talk on the meaning and importance of prayer. Several of the students were called upon to pray, and the service ended with the singing of a number of hymns.

WILDCATS BREAK EVEN (Continued from page 2)
Boggs (6) .......... Romefelt (2) Center
Black (4) .......... Brice (2)
Coles (2) .......... Chalmers Guards

South Carolina Game.
The Wildcats triumphed in the final game of the trip over University of S.C. by the score of 28 to 17. The game was fast throughout, but marred on several occasions by poor shooting on the part of both teams. The first half opened up with both teams playing an offensive game, but neither being able to work the ball near enough to the basket for a successful shot. The first minutes were nip and tuck, with Carolina having the edge on the large floor. Soon, however, the Wildcats opened up a rapid-fire system of passing, and got the jump of their opponents. From this time on they were never headed. Brice put up a splendid game at guard, while Romefelt led the offensive. The first half ended 12 to 5, in the Wildcats’ favor. The University lads opened up an attack which looked as if it would bring them within striking distance at the beginning of the second stanza, but the Wildcat defense rallied and put an end to it. Romefelt wentwild in the final minutes of play and shot three long shots which made victory certain. The passing of the Red and Black machine in the latter stages of the game baffled the losers and frequent easy shots were attempted only to be missed by poor judgment.

The features of the game were the playing of Foy at center for the losers, and the splendid offensive combination of Romefelt and Brice for the winners. The score:

Univ. of S.C. Position Davidson
Skinner (3) ........ Hall (2)
Wallace (2) ........ Roberts (8)
Forwards
Foy (8) ........ Romefelt (10)
Center
Vaughn ........ Brice (8)
Waite ........ Chalmers
Guards
Substitutes: Qualtlebaul (4) for Wallace.

Mrs. Miley has returned from Charlotte, where she has been sick with the “flu” at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Matthews. Mrs. Matthews and her husband and baby have had the influenza too.

PLAY TENNIS

The boarding houses which were closed on account of the “flu” have all re-opened; the ladies are recovering as rapidly as could be expected. The Davidson High School resumed activities last week.

OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE

“The House of Service”
1. Free tuning for three years.
2. Free fire insurance while you are paying.
3. Exchange privilege.

Charlotte’s Largest Store Of Quality Pianos and Organs

Spalding Tennis Equipment, Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including regular clothing. Send for catalog.

A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.

The College Printers

If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

Knabe
“The World’s Best Piano”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.
Tuning, Repairing and Moving

JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

AT THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.

Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, bankers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, and others.

ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN?

The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer. 400,000 Vocabulary Terms. 2700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations. Colored Plates, 30,000 Geographical Subjects, 12,000 Biographical Entries. Regular and India-Paper Edition. Write for Specimen Pages, Illustrations, etc. Mention this publication and receive a set of pocket maps.

G. & C. MERRIAM CO., Springfield, Mass., U. S. A.

ONE GRADUATE of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man.

When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.