8 THE DAVIDSON FALLS BEFORE TORNADO OF TECH

each other were the second string men from both schools. In the last quarter, the Yellow Jackets’ only score came
as the result of a drop-kick by Scarborough.

During the whole game, the “Red and Black machine” fought grimly to stem the tide which had turned against them.
For the losers, Hammett, Erwin, and Romefelt did the best work, while for the winners Harlan and Barron were the
best ground gainers.

Davidson’s ball on her 30-yard line. Tech penalized 15 yards for off-side. Massey hit right tackle for two yards. Shepard
gained three yards around end. A forward pass, Massey to Miley, netted six yards and first down. Massey took one
yard over tackle, then Shepard made two yards around end. Forward pass incomplete. Shepard kicked 45 yards to Brady who
returned seven. McDonough was forced out of bounds on an attempted end run and Flowers punted 35 yards to Shepard,
who fumbled in the shadow of his goal posts and McDonough recovered for a touchdown. Fincher kicked goal. Score: Tech
7, D. C. 0.

Barron kicked off 35 yards to Hammett, who returned six. Shepard gained 36 yards around end, putting the ball on
Tech’s 30-yard line. A forward pass was intercepted by McDonough, who was downed in his tracks. Harlan gained one yard.
Barron gained 12 yards and first down over right tackle. Flowers took nine yards and placed the ball in midfield.
Tech penalized for off-side. Flowers then gained 18 more yards. Quarter ended with the ball on Davidson's 33-yard line.

Second Quarter.

Harlan and McDonough buckled the ball over the goal line, the latter making the touchdown. Fincher kicked goal. After the
kick-off, Flowers hit tackle for three yards, Harlan gained six over center, then Harlan carried the ball across for the
second touchdown of the quarter. Barron kicked off 40 yards to Shepard, who returned eight. Massey was thrown for a
four-yard loss, and then a fumble on a criss-cross play was recovered by Fincher. Barron then skirted end for 20
yards, scoring another touchdown.

Barron kicked off again to Shepard, who returned eight. Shepard gained two yards over left guard and on the next
play fumbled and was thrown for a 10-yard loss. Massey punted 45 yards to Flowers, who returned seven. Forward pass
incomplete. Barron gained 11 yards over left tackle. Tech penalized 15 yards for holding. Flowers punted 60 yards to Shepard,
who fumbled, Granger of Tech recovering. McDonough failed to gain through center. Harlan took the ball over for a touchdown.

Barron kicked 30 yards to Shepard, who was downed in his tracks. Forward pass incomplete. Forward pass, Massey to Douglass,
netted seven yards. Forward pass, Massey to Dantzler, who replaced Shepard, gained five yards. A forward pass was then intercepted
by Barron, who ran 75 yards for another touchdown. Score: Tech 35, Davidson 0.

Line-up:

Tech. Position. Davidson.
John Staton Left End Hammett
Fincher Left Tackle Romefelt
LeBey Left Guard Brad
Flowers, Amis Center Brady
Davis Right Guard LaFar
Al Staton Right Tackle Davis
Rattermann Right End Miley
Barron Right Halfback G. Sheppard
Flowers Left Halfback N. Sheppard
McDonough Quarterback Douglass
Harlan Fullback Massey

Substitutions—Tech: Granger for Ratterman, McRea for Fincher, Giaver for Harlan, Post for Barron, Scarborough for McIntyre, McIntyre for LeBey, Mayer
for J. Staton, Perry for Davis. Davidson: Erwin for Miley, Briggs for Douglass.or 9 Atord. Third Period. At the beginning
of the third period, both sides exchanged punts and then Tech unloosed a forward pass, Flowers to Ratterman, which was
good for a touchdown. Flowers was replaced by Hunt. Tech kicked off to Davidson, who failed to make a first
down and punted. A forward pass gained 20 yards, then Barron and Harlan bucked the ball to Davidson’s 16-yard line.
Tech was penalized 15 yards for holding. Harlan hit center for 13 yards and Barron took the pigskin around the
end for a touchdown. Score: Tech 49, Davidson 0. Sizer replaced Gig Shepherd. Tech kicked off to Sizer, who returned
15 yards. D. C. lost the ball on downs and had to punt. Tech’s ball on their own 37-yard line.
Harlan and Barron hit the line for gains and then a forward pass, Harlan to Barron, gave them 60 yards
and another touchdown. Staton kicked off 40 yards to Davidson. LeBey intercepted a forward pass and raced under the posts
for another touchdown. At this point, many substitutions were made and the teams faced off again.

DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

THE GARBER-DAVIS Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras

Shepard for Douglass, Dantzler for Shepard, Sizer for W. S. Shepherd, Walker for McFadden, Carter for Hammett, Field for Romefelt,
Hamer for Davis, Summers for LaFar.

BUSINESS MANAGER RECEIVES PLEASANT SHOCK (Continued from page 1)

Amazement when on the next train came a letter asking for $112.00 worth of advertising space—that’s what I call “pep.”
Mr. Wingo is not a college man but is a progressive business man who is interested in young men and
their doings—especially the college man. Long years ago he lived in Davidson. When a boy, he was popularly known here
as Stuart Wingo. Later he went to Charlotte and was affiliated with the Weddington Hardware Co. For a number of
years, he has been in Spartanburg as a wholesale dealer of auto and hardware supplies. He is taking ten inches
of advertising space each week in the Davidsonian, which is a big spark in “The Livest Wire on the Hill.”
The Davidsonian appreciates such loyal support and wishes to call to the attention of all Davidson men the services of
an uninterested business man—uninterested as an alumnus, but a deeply interested business man in the development of the young man
of today.

THE GARBER-DAVIS CELEBRATED NOVELTY SOCIETY ORCHESTRA PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES, and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS E. PAGE YARBROUGH Business Manager
JAN GARBER Owner and Director Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

LIBRARY NEWS.

The following dailies may now be found in the reading room:
Lynchburg News.
Greensboro Daily News.
Charlotte Observer.
Columbia State.
Atlanta Journal.
New Orleans Times-Picayune.
Jacksonville Times Union.
Washington Evening Star.
Manchester Guardian.
New York Times.
New York Sun and Herald.
Baltimore Sun.

Mrs. W. R. Grey, Mrs. A. Currie, and Miss Mary Young are attending the Presbyterian Synodical at Concord, N.C.

Tobacco factor: Camels! The happiest cigarette spot or unpleasant cigarette odor! And soon, old Camel DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

10,000 parts at Camel factories! The atmosphere is just like an aroma of Camels! And, these machines batting out Camels
at 27,000 an hour—each! You wouldn’t have to consult a guide to know you are in the Camel factory! The
delightful flavor would cheer up anyone.
