2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

Football Season to Begin | Ye Freshmen Give Heed

To you Davidson men, who consider yourselves in the society of those who decorate the top of their cranium with
a black skull-cap domed with a red button and decorate with a green F, this column is dedicated. You are
at last enrolled and have been at this distinguished seat of learning long enough to be considered full-fledged Freshmen.

In accordance with this fact, and whereas former Davidson tradition must be carried on, it is well that through these
Athletic Columns of the Davidsonian, you be advised what will be expected of you, individually and as a class, concerning
DAVIDSON SPIRIT.

You have already experienced several phases of this abstract and yet concrete myth. The campus, classroom, dormitory, and other phases
of college life have made you become acquainted with that spirit of the Alma Mater, which we old men admire
and respect. The one phase which you have not as yet experienced is—the spirit behind the team. You will not
have a chance to feel it until the first game on the 25th.

That you may not be entirely lost in the pandemonium of support the student body gives the team, it would
be wise to inform yourself as much as possible beforehand. Davidson takes a bold and foremost stand for “clean athletics.”
So don’t expect to go and see a “Wildcat Team” take an unfair advantage of or use underhanded means against
her rivals. Sometimes it may seem that we are getting a dirty deal. Remember that two wrongs never made a
right, so just swallow the “quinine” like the fellows out on the field are doing and don’t squeal. You'll be
respected for it.

Davidson is continually playing teams from institutions larger than herself. As a consequence, we meet stronger teams than our own.
Remember that, win or lose, you are being counted on to support the team. Last year the team lost to
W. and L. by a score of 7 to 0. They arrived back at Davidson at 12:10.

Football throughout the country will be formally ushered in on Saturday. Nearly all of our rivals have games and we
look with much expectation to the results, to give us a line on their comparative strength. The only game scheduled
before Saturday is the one the preceding day between Clemson and Erskine, neither of whom we play this season. On
Saturday, Wake Forest goes up against Georgia Tech. The Baptists have a strong aggregation from all accounts and will no
doubt give the Golden Tornado a stiff fight. Elon meets Furman in Greenville and here a close and exciting game
is looked for. Although very little can be learned from the “Christian Camp,” rest assured that Coach Johnson is turning
out a scrapping bunch. At Furman, Billy Laval has his proteges going through a grueling practice. The gridiron warriors at
this stronghold began practice on the 14th. It was a bit early and only 20 aspirants reported; but the squad
is expected to swell to about 50. Eleven of last year's varsity squad are scheduled to return, and with this
as a nucleus, a strong team is looked for. Ende, of the preceding year's varsity, who was out on account
of the Flu last year, will be back this season and out for his old position in the line.

VARIETY DOWNS SCRUBS IN SCRAPPY GAME

Twenty-six Points Rolled Against Second String in First Real Workout of Season.

“The Varsity and the Scrubs were opponents and both showed up well for so early in the season. After a
hard fight, the varsity came out on the long end of a 26-0 score.

The first team scored in the first and last quarters. In the first quarter, they succeeded in pushing over two
touchdowns by driving through the line. In the second and third quarters, the scrubs fought so hard that the varsity
was unable to score. During the last quarter, they resorted to forward passes and Douglas and Schenck each carried the
ball once.

Cassel and Dantzler did some fine broken field running, while McFadden’s passing and Cleary’s punting also showed up well. In
the line, Hammett and Romefelt succeeded in breaking up many plays before they got well started. Schenck got down fast
under punts.

First quarter: Cassel kicked off to Richards on the 20-yard line, who was tackled hard. The scrubs were unable to
make first down and had to rely on Cleary to punt out of danger. Moore received the ball in mid-field
and from then on the varsity did not lose it until Cassel carried it over on an off-tackle play. Cassel
kicked goal. Score: Varsity 7, Scrubs 0.

Practically the same performance was repeated until Moore carried the ball over in sensational playing. Cassel kicked goal. Score: Varsity
14, Scrubs 0. Up to this time the varsity’s line bucks were almost irresistible and they went through the scrubs'
defense with ease.Football tactics and strategy. The entire student body stood in a drizzling rain around a big bonfire downtown
to meet them, waiting for two hours. We were proud of them, even in defeat. That’s merely an example of
support. Don’t lie down, you fellows of ’24—drop in line.

And when you get down on Sprunt Field, then’s the time to come to life. Remember only one thing—and that
is that you are there to support your team to win a clean game. Open up every valve and let
the noise burst forth. Get your whole body into it—develop the pep! That’s what we really want. Your mouth was
made for two purposes—to eat and to talk with. Here we want the superlative degree of the latter. Remember that
when we're rooting for our team, there is none of this class distinction. Everybody is pulling like one man, for
the team, and for a victory.

Come on now, you fellows in the Class of ‘24. Get in line. We play N. C. State in Raleigh,
Saturday. Give the team a big send-off. You have the honor of being the largest Fresh class in this good
old college’s history. What are you going to do about it? Are you going to go to work and no
play make Johnnie a dull boy; so let’s all come out and make the outdoor gym the most popular place
on the campus.

OUT-DOOR GYM. GOOD WORK-OUT.

Hey Skinny! You oughta see this young Sampson chinning himself. This and other remarks are heard during all hours of
the day, around the outdoor gym, where students who are not for football, basketball, track, and golf take their daily
exercise. Although Davidson encourages the more strenuous exercises, yet there are many men who are greatly handicapped both for time
and experience; it is to these men that the gym is of the greatest advantage. There is nothing better for
a man after a long day’s grind of books than to get a hard workout on the bars and rings,
then a good shower and rub-down. Talk about eating, well fellows, just try it.

As several great men have said, it is easy to judge a college by its outdoor gym as well as
by its athletic teams. It is an old saying that all work and no play make Johnnie a dull boy;
so let’s all come out and make the outdoor gym the most popular place on the campus.

FOOTBALL SCRIMMAGE.

Cleary opened the second half by kicking off to Moore on the 25-yard line. The varsity seemed to have the
old driving power and carried the ball back to mid-field on straight plays. Then scrubs had their best chance to
score. Douglas intercepted a pass and carried the ball to the 40-yard line. On the next play, Seizer broke loose
on a wide end run and carried the ball to the 10-yard line before Moore brought him down. The ball
was in the scrubs' possession. Score, Varsity 14, Scrubs 0.

The quarter ended with the ball on the scrub’s 30-yard line. Score: Varsity 14, Scrubs 0. In the last quarter,
the varsity opened up with a series of forward passes. Douglass and Schenck both received long passes and carried the
ball over the goal line. The scrubs fought hard but McFadden, on several occasions, sent the ball sailing over their
heads into an end’s waiting arms. Hammett, Knight, and Moore received slight injuries but all of them hope to be
in good condition again.

Furman. Little information can be gained from the Baptist Camp. The Furman outfit has an unusually heavy schedule and no
doubt are hard at work. Billy Laval, a prominent coach, has the squad in charge and is running the men
through stiff practice before the opening game with Elon. Speer is back for his final year.

Davis - R. Y
Schenck - L. E.
McFadden - L. H.
Cassel - R. H.
Poe - F.B.
Carter for Davis; Davis for Schenck; Dick for Moore; Summers for Shaw; Romefelt for Knight; Moore, W. W. for Bethea;
Davis for Dantzler.

A Victrola in Your Home gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists.
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Music, and Everything in Music. REWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry. OLDEST, LARGEST, BEST. 213 N. Tryon St.

The Maca: looks as if our own fellows are getting returned to the 30-yard line. The Maca Company, Agency.

READ ’EM AND WEEP. Here are some boarding house prices. Read 'em and weep.
$16—Mrs. Campbell’s.
$15—Mrs. Smith's.
$14—Mrs. McMillan’s.
$13.50—Mrs. Henderson’s.
$12—Mrs. Brady’s.
$11.50—Mrs. Glasgow's.
$10—Mrs. Shumaker's.
$9.25—Mrs. Barnes’.

Fall Sports are now on with the passing of baseball. We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting
Goods. Call or write us. Carolina Sporting Goods Company. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN. Phone 8248.

The Advertisers in This Paper are responsible for four-fifths of its expenses. PATRONIZE THEM and TELL THEM WHY.
