THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS
All KODAK
THE MACAMAC CO.
REPRESENTATIVES
At the Powerhouse

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY COLLEGE JEWELERS
Philadelphia, Penna.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Double Guarantee, Free Tuning
Write for a Catalogue, Prices and Terms
“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Music Ware Rooms
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.

HUMANIZING EDUCATION TREATED BY DR. METCALF
Dr. J. C. Metcalf of the University of Virginia English department brought his speaking engagement to a close Tuesday morning
at the assembly hour in a strong address, “Humanizing Education.” As in all of his talks and addresses before the
students of the college and the citizens of the town, Dr. Metcalf pleased his hearers not more with the solid
thought of his discourse than with the beautiful way in which he gave expression to those thoughts.

In his address the speaker urged the need of less stress on the material and more on the ideal, the
cultural, the beautiful, in our training for the work of life. He called to mind Huxley's definition of education, “the
ability that makes a man able to do the thing that he ought to do, whether he feels like doing
it or not.” Education is thus a personal and individual matter on one hand and on the other is of
real importance to the nation, made up as the nation is of the mass of individuals.

While we have in late years gotten away from the alleged evil in the education of other days, that it
made a few men great and left the masses in the lowlands, we have probably made as great a mistake
by increasing the general education and not building enough really great men. The speaker urged bettering the standard for all,
and also pleaded for the cultivation of intellectual giants in addition.

Dr. Metcalf stated that one loaf of bread for the body and a hyacinth to promote the thought of the
beautiful is better than two loaves of bread to feed the body. Organization without soul is not enough. Organization did
not give Germany all she needed, though that organization was probably the most complete any nation has ever known. Her
soul was not built up and she fell. With the thought, “Earth changes but the soul and God do not,”
the speaker closed his address and added another to the list of intellectual pleasures he afforded his many Davidson admirers.

R. O. T. C. BAND TO SPEND THANKSGIVING AT FLORA MACDONALD COLLEGE
The band has been very much elated for quite a while, about their Thanksgiving trip. When asked where he was
going to eat his Thanksgiving dinner, Goingsworth, the drummer boy, with his face beaming, replied, “In the hall of Flora
Macdonald College, Red Springs, N.C.” Yes, this is the treat awaiting the Davidson wildcat band on November the twenty-fifth.

It is the intention of Capt. Freeman to board his crew on the eleven-fifty Wednesday morning and spend a few
hours in Charlotte. They will leave at five o’clock for Monroe, N. C., where the first concert is to be
given. Next, a concert will be given Thursday night at F. M. C. After the concert—oh well, we can't say
here—! It is rumored that the boys have to be censored by the Faculty of the said college before they
are allowed to have even a pleasant chat with the fair ones, but we trust that such a handsome bunch
as those in the Davidson band will have no trouble from such quarters.

This trip will be the first one taken to Red Springs by the band, and they are looking forward to
a great time. We have no doubt of it. Go to it Wildcats!

NEW HOURS TAKE EFFECT IN LIBRARY
Beginning with Monday of this week the Library book rooms will be open from 9 to 10:30 a. m., instead
of from 12 to 1:30. This change is made because of the Chapel and Drill hours conflicting. The afternoon hours
which are from 2:30 to 6:00 will remain the same.

The largest shipment of books for the year has been ordered, but have not yet arrived. Books just received are:
Cecil Rhodes—Man and Empire Maker.
Princess Catherine Radziwill.
Bliss Perry—A Study of Poetry.
Klapper—College Teaching.
Everett—College Study and College Life.
Stevenson—Learning to Write.
Other selected books are expected to arrive at an early date.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS HELD IN PHI SOCIETY
Flynn Long to Head North Carolinians During Spring Term.
Phi Society program for November 27.
Subject for debate: Resolved, that all technical schools should require for entrance at least two years of college work.
Affirmative:
J. M. Dunlap
A. F. Fricker
H. A. Hill
Negative:
D. W. Roberts
C. G. Brown
S. M. Query
Extemporaneous:
C. N. Morrison
J. M. Gaston, Jr.
Declamation:
J. B. McCallum
Oration:
C.K. Brown. The regular program was dispensed with in the Phi society for the purpose of electing officers. After the
usual preliminaries, the election began, Fricker having made the motion to that effect. Lilynn Long was elected president by acclamation.
The other officers were as follows: Vice-President, Murdock McLeod. Secretary, J. W. Baldwin. First Critic, C. K. Brown. Second Critic,
J. I. Clark. First Supervisor, H. K. Russell. Second Supervisor, S. R. Sloan. Marshals, J. I. Knight, H. A. Hill,
S. M. Query, G. N. Neel. The amendment to the Absence Regulations of the Society Constitution was brought up and
voted to be made a part of the constitution. It requires that any man who leaves the hill when he
is on the program shall notify the First Critic that he will be absent, or have his fine for absence
doubled. The president announced the date for the Fresh-Soph Declamation Contest as December 6. The Treasurer extended the time for
payment of the fall term dues to December 1. After reports of standing committees, the society adjourned.

HANDSOME BOYS PREPARE FOR CHRISTMAS

“These are fine,” “I don’t like any of these,” “Tell me which one you like best.” These are only a
few of the many remarks heard in Shearer Hall last Thursday afternoon. The cause of all this was the arrival
and display of proofs of the pictures for the annual. Many were horrified when they gazed upon themselves as others
see them, while some few blushingly acknowledged that the pictures were almost as good looking as the subjects themselves. It
is rumored that a certain young member of the Macamac Company was so well pleased that he ordered a whole
dozen finished in the “billboard” size, saying that his ambition was to put one in every home. But just a
little secret on the side: the reason most of the fellows decided on the spur of the moment to have
some pictures finished was in order to get an opportunity to talk to the extremely pleasing young lady, representing White's
Studio of New York, who accompanied the proofs—since they were so good looking!

MADAME JO-JO, THE MEDIUM.

The ouija board has become the arbiter of the world’s destiny! The gay and festive spirits take delight in tipping
tables, sending messages through animated pencils, and telling the latest scandal of the other world by means of gifted mediums.
The greatest medium of them all is Madam Jo-jo, the dusty beauty, whose revelations have proven the sensation of the
spiritualistic world. She has the enthusiastic endorsement of Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Mr. Charles Vance, and other
eminent exponents of spiritualism. She gained undying fame by predicting at 12 o’clock on November 2, that Harding would very
probably be elected president. Also during the third quarter of the game on November 7, she gave her opinion during
a trance that Davidson would probably beat South Carolina. Marvelous! Madame Jo-jo is coming to Davidson! She will be one
of the headliners in the Minstrel Show to be presented here on November 27. Don't fail to see her.

The Mid-term reports for the Fresh and Soph's were sent out the latter part of last week. The reports of
the Juniors and Seniors will be sent out this week.

Established 1878
A. S. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.

You can fool them under sixteen
With all your pleasing lies,
But when you try them eighteen,
Gosh, you'll find them wise.
—The Emory Wheel.

They sat alone in the moonlight,
And she soothed his troubled brow,
“Dearest, I know my life’s been fast,
But I’m on my last lap now.”
—Tiger.

Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
218 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain
We want to serve you
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

BELK BROS.
WE PREPAY CHARGES ON ALL MAIL ORDERS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Charlotte's Leading Dept. Store

MEETING NEW CONDITIONS WITH NEW PRICES

We anticipated just these conditions months ago, and prepared to meet them. Going Through Every Department of Our Nine Floors,
we have changed prices downward to the level of today’s manufacturers and in many cases LESS.

Men's and Boys’ Clothing—Shoes—Hats—Furnishings of All Kinds—Fall and Winter Underwear. Wool Goods—Silks—Linens—All Kinds of White Goods—Ladies’ Ready-to-Wear—Household Furnishings. Special Sales
now on in all Departments at GREAT REDUCTIONS. BLANKET SALE—“SALE ON WOOL GOODS NOW ON.”

In fact, you will find REMARKABLE Reductions from Prevailing Prices in ALL DEPARTMENTS. Send us your MAIL ORDERS—or better still,
Come To See US—It Will Pay You.

BELK BROS.
