The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Tuesday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief .........................................
Managing Editor .........................................
Assignment Editor .........................................
Athletic Editor .........................................
Alumni Editor .........................................
Exchange Editor .........................................
Forum Editor .........................................
Social Editor .........................................
Literary Editor .........................................
Official Photographer .........................................

CLUB
McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.

REPORTERS
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
BITZER, R.
COOPER, W. J.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
LONG, C. G.
MAHOOD, D. L.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS ........................................ Business Manager
E. A. NASH ........................................ Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG ........................................ Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL ........................................ Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, we did it! And too much cannot be said in praise of the entire Wildcat team, for they fought with the characteristic fierceness and determination of the animal from which they derive their name.

We do not mind attending assembly lectures, but we do object to a full day’s work being camouflaged so as to be called a holiday.

The game Saturday was a thriller in many ways, but one of the outstanding features of the hard-fought battle was the clean sportsmanship of both teams. Davidson lived up to her reputation of years in this respect, and Carolina, although on the defensive the entire game, never resorted to dirty tactics, showing themselves worthy of the admiration of all.

In justice to the students who wore the Navy blue during the World War, we would respectfully ask that the Chairman of the Armistice Day exercises never again fail to give these men their proper recognition. This organization supported the Flag in its sphere of service just as much as the Army or the Y. M.C. A.

A combination of half-holidays for Davidson College Day and Armistice Day respectively ought to give a whole holiday by our way of calculation, but it seems that there was a mysterious subtraction which resulted in a zero so far as a holiday was concerned.

HOW MUCH IS YOUR SUPPORT WORTH?

The student body is to be commended on its recent action in which it has assumed the responsibility of giving to each football letter man this fall a sweater and a gold football as a token of the esteem and admiration with which they are regarded. The students as a whole have pledged themselves to raise five hundred dollars for this purpose, but to succeed in doing so depends on YOU as an individual member of this body.

You believe in your team; you will give them all kinds of moral backing; some of you will even risk losing your board money by betting on their fighting and winning qualities; but now the time has come when the call is issued for each man to dig into his trousers and extract therefrom one dollar as his part in making this plan possible. Are you going to give them this meager financial backing? Our belief is that you will. This we write only to remind you that now is your time to help in our glorious football season, and to urge your hearty cooperation and support so that those men who sacrifice much can be everlastingly assured that our college is proud of them and their record.

WE THANK YOU, WINSTON.

A short time ago an editorial appeared in our columns urging the change of the annual Carolina game from Winston-Salem to Charlotte. We were sincere in our belief at that time, but since our last invasion into the Twin City we must honestly confess that we are body and soul for keeping this football classic in the same city where it was staged Saturday. No town could have been more loyal to the Red and Black than the people of Winston, as evidenced by the great number of enthusiastic Davidson supporters and their treatment of our students. To state it briefly, Winston-Salem is a Davidson town.

We frankly admit that the handling of the crowd was inefficient, but this is not to be charged against the Twin City, for the entire management of the game was in the hands of the University authorities, and they alone can be the object of the compliments or criticisms as the case may be. That from henceforth on the game will be directed in a straight, direct business-like way is assured from the fact that last week the Winston-Salem Athletic Association was organized to bring about this result. We are glad to hear this, and now it is up to us to show them our appreciation by keeping this game in their city.

Aside from all this, the principal argument for not transferring this game is the fact that it has proven to be a powerful drawing card for future Davidson students. From many sources in the last few days, information has come to our hands directly that the showing made by the Wildcat eleven has already influenced many boys who were on the fence as to which college to enter to cast their lot with this institution. It is a matter of common sense that it is not a wise policy to concentrate all our games in one locality, but to scatter them in several cities in order to...

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1929.

MORE ON THE POINT SYSTEM.

In last week's issue in these columns “E. Pluribus Unum” advocated a change in the point system. This point system was adopted many years ago with the constitution of the student government. Last year the students revised the constitution, but no change was made in the point system. These points were rated for the student officers as they were in 1915, and since then many new offices have been created, and old ones enlarged. If the constitution seemed inadequate, it would follow that the point system is inadequate also.

Last year’s Handbook contained the following: “To prevent a small group of men from holding all of the student offices in Davidson, a point system has been adopted. Under this one man can hold only ten points at one time. The various offices are graded as follows:

Student Body—President, 5; Vice-President, 1; Secretary and Treasurer, 1; Student Council, 1.
Athletic Association — President, 2; Vice-President, 1; Treasurer, 4.
Athletics—Captain, 1; Manager (baseball and football), 5; Assistant Manager, 2; Managers, Track, 3; Tennis, 2; Basketball, 4.
Y. M. C. A—President, 5; Cabinet, 1.
Davidsonian—Editor, 5; Business Manager, 4; Managing Editor, 5; Assignment Editor, 3; Circulation Manager, 3; Staff, 2.
Annual—Editor, 5; Manager, 5; Assistant Manager, 2; Staff, 2.
Magazine—Editor, 4; Staff, 2.
Literary Society—President, 1; Secretary, 1; Treasurer, 2; Reviewer, 1; Marshall, 1; Chief Marshall, 2.
Class—President, 1; Historian, 1.
Debating Council—Chairman, 2; Member, 1.”

Since the time of adoption of these points many new organizations have appeared on the campus. And in order to carry on the purpose of the point system—“to prevent a small group of men from holding all the student offices”—points should be credited to these new offices. The question is, What offices are important enough to warrant including them?in the point system and what credit to give them? Manager, 3; San-Tar. D——___.

DAMAGE COMMITTEE.

Before the war, there was a committee on the Hill known as the Damage Committee. The purpose of this committee was to look out for damages done by the students and keep an accurate list of all damages done. This list was turned over to the treasurer, and the amounts were deducted from the individual's damage account. Since the days of the S. A. T. C., this custom of having a damage committee has been abandoned. At present, there are a few boys who totally disregard the will of the college and promiscuously break up the college property. And when it comes to paying for the damages, the combined loss is pooled, and an equal amount is subtracted from each student's account. Would it not be better to reinstate the committee and thereby put a stop to some of this careless conduct on the part of some of the boys? This committee could look out for the damage just as the supervision committee looks out for the fresh.

X. T. M. D——___.

PUNCTUALITY.

Did it ever occur to you that there are various things to be learned in college except the texts assigned in classrooms? One of these is punctuality. Is there any tangible reason why a man cannot adjust his physical being to the duties of the hour in order that he may arrive at his destination on time instead of late?

pon CO — —— that a greater number of High School students may come directly into contact with the famous Davidson spirit. Even in the future, should this game in question be somewhat mismanaged, and this most positively will not be, we believe that the last reason cited is sufficient to permit Winston-Salem’s retaining this contest. By doing this, the Twin City will become a more ardent supporter of Davidson as the years go by, and her influence will grow in power in that section of the State.

EXCHANGE WS

Read the exchanges in the “Y” room.

QUEENS BLUES.

A brand new newspaper has made its appearance among our list of exchanges and receives a most hearty welcome. QUEENS BLUES is the name by which our new exchange is known and is published by the students of none other than “our own” Queens College, in the neighboring town of Charlotte. It is a four-page, four-column publication and is put out semi-monthly.

SOCIETY DAY AT WAKE FOREST.

Wake Forest's seventh annual Society Day, celebrated on November 1, featured beautiful girls, a large number of visitors, and an enjoyable program. The program, in addition to the Junior-Sophomore debate on the subject: Resolved, that Ireland should be granted her independence, and four excellent orations, included several social functions. In connection with the Society Day, the Old Gold and Black of Wake Forest says: “The sight of so many couples at various places about the campus and grounds was very impressive.”

PUBLIC SPEAKING CLASSES ORGANIZED AT BIRMINGHAM-SOUTHERN COLLEGE.

Public speaking is now a recognized department at Birmingham-Southern College, a one-hour course raising the number of hours required for a degree to 64. To keep up to standard, the college found it necessary to increase the requirements.

Thomas H. Spence, editor of The Oak Leaf, and ex-chief peanut of The Davidsonian Peanut Parcher, gives us the following editorial in his usual poetic style:

“Many a man could do many a thing,
Could reach many a place on high,
And make him a name
Of honor and fame
If he had only the grit to try.”

WO-CO-ALA NEWS.

The Seniors of the Woman’s College of Alabama are to give a vaudeville and minstrel in the near future. The prospect is promising, including the newest fashions, songs, and surprise features well worth seeing.

Few of us have attained the distinction of facing audiences, but can you not place yourself upon the platform and speak your first ten minutes to your audience without being interrupted some six or seven times by delinquents arriving late? We should certainly try to eliminate these late arrivals, which must be very annoying. It must make a very poor impression on the speaker of our respect for his efforts. We owe it to our visitors, so let’s try to cultivate punctuality.

E. Pluribus Unum.

and mellow. good dealer, PIPE’S the thing with men. WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved, The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet.

POMONA COLLEGE TO HAVE NEW TRAINING QUARTERS.

A campaign waged by Alumni and students is underway to raise $55,000 for the erection of new training quarters for Pomona College, of Claremont, California. The plans for the new building are already drawn and constitute the first wing of a modern gymnasium which is to be built later. When complete, the new gymnasium will be an architectural feature which will adequately fit in with the great campus plans of the administration.

I watched her dress
And laughed at it,
For brevity’s
The soul of wit.

I used to think I knew I knew,
But now, I must confess
The more I know I know I know
I know I know the less.
—A Philosophy Student.

A COLLEGE BARBER'S YELL.

Cut his lip
Gash his jaw
Leave his face
Raw! Raw! Raw!
—Orange and Blue.

The total registration of Wake Forest to date is 551, which is the largest enrollment ever at the College. Since this number of students is about two hundred more than the dormitory space is supposed to accommodate, it would seem that the only thing to do would be to build more dormitories.

LEX KLUTTZ TO TAKE UP WORK IN SYRIA.

Former Baseball Star at Davidson to be Athletic Instructor There.

Lex Kluttz, '15, of Chester, S. C., former service man, who is to be an instructor and athletic coach in the Syrian Protestant College, Beirut, Syria, stopped over on his way to his new work at Coblenz, Germany, according to an item in The Amarco News of September 20, published at Coblenz daily and Sunday in the interest of the American forces in Germany.

Mr. Kluttz was a former religious leader at Coblenz, and the paper carries an item on a talk he made, in addition to the following clipping:

“Lex Kluttz, ex-sergeant, and one of the fastest cinder track men of the 8th infantry, who received his discharge in the United States, after going to that country with the A. F. G.—Olympic Games Team, has arrived in Coblenz for a three days’ visit before going to Beirut, Syria, where he will accept a position as instructor and athletic coach in the Syrian Protestant College.

“Last summer, Kluttz was picked as one of the few men of the American forces who was fleet enough to make the Olympic games. After qualifying for the army tryouts in the United States, he was eliminated in the St. Louis meet in both the 440 and 100 yards events. After obtaining his discharge from the army, he visited his home in Chester, S. C., and has now come to Germany via Italy, on his way to the Near East.

“Kluttz came over the first time in 1917 and re-enlisted after the armistice. He was sent to the 8th infantry and for more than a year was in the office of Senior Chaplain E. P. Easterbrook here.”

Under the spell of It will not crack or burn through. The WDC Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any We. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.