See Page 2 For Conference News

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 19, 1920. No. 20

“FLU” BIDS HILL FAREWELL. NO ILL RESULTS APPARENT

After a brief sojourn of about a week and a half, the flu has departed from the campus of Davidson
College. By this we do not mean that everybody has completely recovered from the flu, but that the appearance of
new cases has ceased and that of the few patients remaining in the Infirmary, those down with the flu are
rapidly recovering.

For a few days rumors were traveling the campus that a number of the boys had contracted pneumonia. However, we
have been glad to hear that they were very mild cases. At no time during the epidemic was the situation
especially serious. Of course, we know that for a few days a number of boys were packing up and leaving,
but it has been found out that they were more unfortunate, in proportion to their number, than those who remained
on the hill. We should congratulate ourselves on the fact that we have fared as well as we have, and
we trust that we may be as fortunate in the future.

Bolshevists Routed in Running Fight by R. O. T. C. No Casualties Due to Blank Cartridges--Country People Terrified

“For the lack of a rider the battle was lost, and all for the lack of a horse-shoe nail.” Had
Napoleon known of the sunken road at Waterloo the destinies of the four hundred and forty students at the good
college of Davidson might have been substantially altered. If a poor, unoffensive, retiring, brown cotton-tail had not jumped up in
front of the attacking hosts of “C” company in the sham battle held last Thursday, the “Reds” might have been
defeated, but the rabbit jumped up. Company “C” devoted their attention and remaining ammunition to the hare, to the utter
disregard of the semi-hypothetical enemy and at this juncture the contest was called off.

The battalion, with the exception of “D” company, marched out the Concord road, accompanied by a rather large camp following.
A purely imaginary group of Bolsheviki were engaged in their usual pursuit of plunder and securing arms at Concord. “A”
company acted as advance guard on the outward march. It seems, however, that the members of that order of Russian
origin were devoting their entire attention to Concord and vicinity and none of them were encountered along the two miles
of macadam which were traversed by the unit.

At the two-mile post the campaigners were halted—with their faces toward Davidson, and the information was imparted to them to
the effect that war had been declared between the Reds and themselves (Blues). The Catawba river bridge was designated as
the boundary line between the belligerents, and the battalion was ordered to march toward the river without delay. Company “C”
was assigned as advance guard on the westward march. Pop, pop, pop, went the rifles of the Red outpost, and
the hearts of several Freshmen of the advance party sympathetically responded with flop, flop, flop. The fire was from the
north of the road, the firers concealed by pine woods and the firees seized by surprise and a desire (Continued
on page 8)

State Volunteer Conference Meets Here Mch. 12th-14th—Over One Hundred Delegates Expected—Splendid Program Being Arranged

Letter Received from Miss Klutz, State President--Y. M. C. A. Extends Hearty Welcome to Visitors---Miss May Fleming and Dr. J.
Lovell Murray Among the Speakers

Welcome to Visiting Delegates

Dear Friends:

The dates, March 12, 13, and 14, are red-letter days on Davidson’s calendar. We look forward with pleasant anticipation to
these three days when high-thinking students from every college in the state will be our guests. This will be Davidson’s
first opportunity to entertain a convention of the nature and spirit of the student volunteers, and we predict that it
will be an occasion not soon forgotten.

The Y. M. C. A. (of which every student is a member) bids every delegate welcome to our campus. Your
sojourn with us is so short that we cannot afford to waste time in getting acquainted with each other. Let
every single delegate remember this, that from the moment you arrive at the Union Station you are admitted into the
intimate circle of our friends. Every Davidson man is ready—nay, eager to serve you. While on our campus you are
entitled to all the privileges of a Senior without being burdened with his dignity, and we hope that when the
time comes to part, it will be with the spirit and mutual understanding of good pals.

There is an often quoted rule about conventions, that only those get something out of it who put something into
it. You know what happens to the man who “much receives and nothing gives.” We hope that students at every
college in the state (both men and women) are praying for the success of the con- (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Extends HEARTY WELCOME to VISITING DELEGATES

HOSTS OF THE CONFERENCE

Register Delegates Promptly

Miss Janie Klutz, President of the Student Volunteer Union of North Carolina for Foreign Missions, has authorized the Davidson committee
to assume the responsibility of recruiting delegates. This committee has sent letters and enrollment cards to as many institutions and
out-of-college volunteers as they have on their list. The plan is to allow each institution three delegates.For the first one
hundred students and one additional for each additional hundred students. Should your institution be entitled to send delegates and have
not received a letter, communicate at once with Box 12, Davidson, N.C. Should any reader be entitled to come as
an out-of-college volunteer, fill out this duplicate card and mail it immediately to convention headquarters, Box 12, Davidson, N.C. It
is imperative that action be taken at once because Registration Closes March First. This is done to allow ample time
to properly assign delegates to their homes, to permit other final arrangements, and to let the colleges so wishing to
fill up vacancies with Extra Delegates. If your or your institution’s proper cards are not in the committee’s hands by
March 1, 1920, they reserve the right to assign your place to those others who wish to come. To make
the 1920 Conference the best the Old North State has ever (Continued on page 4)

Peace Oratorical Contests to Be Resumed This Year

Preliminary Contest to Be Held Either in Raleigh or Greensboro—Winner to Compete in South Atlantic States Contest.

The national oratorical contest for undergraduate college students will be held again this year, according to information from Professor Blair,
of Guilford College. He is the director of the contests in this state. This series of contests was interrupted by
the war, but it is now planned to put it back on a firm basis again. A preliminary contest for
North Carolina will be held about the 1st of April, either in Raleigh or Greensboro. All the colleges of the
state are requested to participate by sending a representative, and the winner of the state contest then competes in the
South Atlantic States contest. The winner in that then has a place in the national contest. A handsome prize will
be given to the winner of the state contest, which in past years was $50, but it is not now
certain that this will be the case this year. Davidson has been represented in most of the past contests and
in 1914 Mr. B.F. Pim won second place in the state finals. The preliminary will be held in college about
the middle of March and any student is eligible. The donors of the prize have attached only one condition and
that is that militarism must not be discussed. The subject of the oration is the setting forth of any method
to secure universal peace.

STUDENTS EXPRESS SYMPATHY TO BOBBY LONG

The students all extend heartfelt sympathy to Bobby Long at the news of the death of his mother, Mrs. L.T.
Long. Mrs. Long died after a short illness, at her home in Winston-Salem, last Sunday. Those who knew Mrs. Long
and learned to love her through her many kindnesses, realize the loss to her friends and relatives, but take comfort
in the knowledge of a life well spent with many crowning deeds of helpfulness.

Attendance and Earnest Work

My Dear Friends:

It is with pleasure and yet uneasiness that I write you. Pleasure because our State Student Volunteer Conference is to
be so soon; uneasiness because we, the officers, know that the conference is not ours alone, but for all of
you, and in some way we may not do all the best things for you. But with God’s help and
your help we hope this will be the biggest and best state conference we have ever had. There are several
things I want to write you.

First, we are anxious that all colleges in the state be represented, and we are especially anxious that all the
smaller institutions be represented with their full quota. It is primarily for you that our conference is being held. We
want to help you in every possible way, but we will not be able to give you as much help
as we would like if you are not represented.

Second, we are anxious that insofar as possible all delegates be student volunteers, so make as many of your quota
student volunteers as possible and then if extra ones wish to go, send the students or faculty who will bring
most back to those who stay at home. Some people have the mistaken idea that the conference is the place
for a great deal of volunteering to be done. We want some, it is true, but what we want the
conference to do is to give so much to all volunteers present that when they reach their college after (Continued
on page 4)

CALENDAR

Basketball—Owing to the “flu” situation it is impossible to announce the basketball schedule for the week. There will probably be
three games.

Friday Night—Sunday School and Bible Class Leaders’ meeting, 6:45.

Saturday Night—Literary societies, 6:45; Movies, Mary Pickford in “Rags,” 8:30; Meeting of Reporters’ Club after movies.

Sunday—Bible classes, 10 a.m.; Church 11 a.m.; “Y” service, 6:15 p.m.

Monday Night—Fresh-Soph Declamation contest in “Phi” hall.
