DEVOTIONAL

MR. McMULLEN ADDRESSES Y. M. C. A.

Mr. McMullen, of China, introduced his Y. M. C. A. speech by saying that the “peace” which the quartet sang about and which we have been struggling for for years, will not be attained until we cease seeking a man-made peace and strive for one founded on the principles of Jesus Christ. He emphasized the great need for Christian business men, lawyers, and doctors, as well as for ministers and missionaries. The speaker then discussed the excuses advanced by shirkers and showed that the testimonials of all who have given their lives to Christian service amply prove that such a life is eminently worthwhile. Mr. McMullen held the close attention of the audience and all present felt greatly benefited by his talk.

— “What About That Class Reunion?”

STUDENT BODY ASKS DR. RICHARDS TO REMAIN AT DAVIDSON

The threatened loss of Dr. Richards has set the students of Davidson College to thinking of the serious difficulty of ever getting another pastor who could in any measure take his place. The student body has accordingly drawn up and presented to Dr. Richards the following resolution:

“Whereas, the services of Dr. C. M. Richards have been so inestimable in value, both to this institution and to the students collectively and individually—

“Be it resolved: That we, the students of Davidson College, do hereby express our gratitude and appreciation to him and our sincere hope that he will see fit to continue his work among us.”

“What About That Class Reunion?”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 29, 1920.

VOLUNTEER BAND

“The place for a real man is China,” said Mr. McMullen before a large crowd of Volunteers Sunday night. “China needs all the big men we can send her and she does not need any half-way men at all.” “If in my own territory I went to visit thirty families a day, I would get around about once every seven or eight years.” Another striking statement which he made was that every medical missionary had over 1,000,000 people to administer to. The speaker advised the men to take all the practical courses and studies that they could while they had the chance, as every bit of it would be needed. He closed by inviting all those who really wanted to tackle a man-size job to come out to China.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

MINISTERS MAKE MERRY.

“I'll say they did,” said the reporter, after seeing the way the hungry preachers fell-to the eats, at the big feed (even though no chicken was present). The repast took place in the Colonel’s classroom, and judging by the noise which escaped through the windows, one would have supposed that an army of “shavetails” were drilling their companies within. Don’t for one minute imagine that “preachers” have no pep. If you doubting Thomases who were on the Hill the night of this auspicious occasion, still have any doubt, come up next time and you will see the jolliest and happiest crew on the campus. “Ox” Harrell had a difficult job keeping order when many notorious “bull-slingers” started on their usual lines. F. V. Long, next year’s president, made an excellent speech, which was followed by talks from the new vice-president, Miller, and secretary, Fraser. Secretary “Bob” Miles then brought down the house with the best series of jokes of the evening. “Stud” Chalmers, “Red” Sullivan and “Jake” Taylor told some corking good jokes, followed by McGirt, Hamilton, Hollingsworth, Bitzer and Matthews, who tried their hands at this job for the first time. Judging from the applause following each, they certainly had the good old beginner’s luck.

“Latin” Liston and “Peanut Parcher” Spence pulled off their usual “flowery” dialogue in magnificent style. Everyone present enjoyed the feed immensely, even those who had no chicken.

NINE BIBLE CLASSES FAIL TO MEET

The attendance at Bible classes was as follows:

Chambers—
First floor, South wing: 0
Second floor, South wing: 0
Third floor, South wing: 0
First floor, North wing: 0
Second floor, North wing: 0
Third floor, North wing: 0

Total: 0

Georgia—
First floor: 0

The campus has had its first “shave” of the season—old Betsy and the ancient (but repainted) three-blade mower officiated. Also, Superintendent of Grounds Stiles is busying himself with doing some....------------ 0} to be helped to their rooms because of too many Robert Burns walks.
Second floor ------------ 0
Third floor -------------- 0
Total ------------------- 0

Watts—
First floor --------------- 0
Second floor ------------- MN
Third floor ---------------
Total -------------------- i

East Rumple—
First floor --------------- 0
Second floor ------------- 10
Third floor -------------- 6
Total -------------------- 16

West Rumple—
First floor --------------- 0
Second floor ------------- 6
Third floor -------------- 0
Total -------------------- 10

Final total --------------- 82

SUNDAY SCHOOLS GOOD
The attendance at neighboring Sunday Schools was as follows:
Teachers. Present.
Oak Grove ---------------- 5 18
Brawleys ------------------ 5 50
Shearer ------------------- 5 47
Mill ----------------------- 2 38

GYMNASIUM FOR MILL CHILDREN
The Mill Sunday School is quite elated over the new playground equipment provided by Dr. Monroe and his associates. A considerable quantity of open-air gymnasium equipment, such as is found in city parks, has been received. The apparatus consists of swings, steel ladders, flying rings, and a modern “Fun Ful” (chute). The little folks are finding the gymnasium very interesting, especially the chute.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

CAMPUSISMS.
Editor Hart assures us that the staff will soon issue the February number of the Davidson College Magazine.

Mr. R. A. Dunn, president of the Commercial National Bank of Charlotte and member of the executive committee of the Board of Trustees, was on the hill Friday looking things over.

Dr. M. E. Sentell spent the weekend in Charlotte.

J. D. McRae is the only man in the infirmary at the present time. McRae is recovering from an attack of the mumps.

Sophia, the young daughter of Dr. Richards, was suddenly stricken with acute appendicitis Friday and was rushed to a Statesville sanitarium in Dr. J. L. Douglas’ car for an operation. The operation was successful and the little lady is doing as well as could be expected.

Mr. Roy Scruggs, of Charlotte, visited R. P. Brown, Sunday.

A. G. Logan has left college on account of ill health and returned to his home at Midway, Ky. Mr. McCabe, a “Y” secretary who saw service in Italy during the late war, came from Kentucky to accompany Logan home.

Miss Winona Smith and party (of “fire”), of Statesville, motored over to the Davidson-Clemson meet Saturday.

Dr. Currie was away for several days last week.

Dr. J. M. McConnell went to Charlotte Friday on a pleasure trip.

Mr. W. W. McCutchen, of Bishopville, S. C., visited his son Byad (one of the seven) Saturday.

Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

BASE BALL
Get Into the Game with Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS
E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

The College Printers

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

“The House of Service”
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT. ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

Free Tuning For Three Years
Charlotte’s Quality Store of Pianos and Players
“The World’s Best Piano”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
Open evenings by appointment.
Catalogue Mailed Free on Request.
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-201 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

H. C. Larzelere, Prop.
OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Capital, Surplus and Reserves Over a Million Dollars
WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Drink PEPSI-COLA