THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920.

You'll avoid that stuffy feeling if you chew a stick of WRIGLEY'S. Other benefits: to teeth, breath, appetite, nerves. That's a good deal to get for 5 cents!

The COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Capital, Surplus and Reserves Over a Million Dollars
WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, S. C.
Faculty:
H. THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary, Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis.
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis.
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church Polity.
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics.
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages.
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution.
WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology.
Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A. H. McKINNEY, D.D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D.

Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church.
PRESIDENT, Columbia, S. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

VIGILANCE COMMITTEE (Continued from page 1)
The committee meets once a week to bring up any case where the rules have been violated. If a Freshman has to be brought up the second time, the Student Council will take action. These rules and regulations are made to protect the new men from hazing. If they will abide by these laws, the old form of hazing will be abolished. The paddle will lose its popularity and the frequent farce prayer meetings will be discontinued. This will give the Freshmen a continuous reminder that their place is not to be the most conspicuous in college except the mark of their rank as a beginner. If both Freshmen and upperclassmen will give their wholehearted support, hazing will be abolished.

BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE (Continued from page 6)
Davidson was represented at the Y. M. C. A. conference last summer. It is impossible, of course, to express entirely the ways in which Blue Ridge gives one this feeling. But the dining hall exerts as much influence towards making this pep and loyalty as any other one thing. Not because of what they give you to eat, though an abundance of appetizing dishes served by pretty college girls does not detract from the meal hour—it is the boys themselves that get up that spirit. The picked men from every campus in the south are there, and every group wishes to convince the others that its college is the best. And they do it by seeing who can give its college yells the loudest. The dining room is a bedlam of sound for a half hour three times a day. No sooner has one college given its yells than another starts out—sometimes two—seeing which can drown the other out. With “Wooly” Grey as cheer leader, the Davidson contingent did nobly. But it had a hard time competing with groups that had two to three times her number. With 50 men there this summer, however, Davidson will show ’em all up.

The Classroom Work Far From Irksome
Four hours of each regularDay at Blue Ridge are spent in some form of classroom work. At 8:30 in the morning comes the Bible class hour, which is the only one for which outside preparation is expected. The classes take up various Bible study textbooks and are conducted very much in the same manner as the classes here. Then comes the College Conference Hour, in which the classes are divided according to the position each man expects to fill in his home Y. M. C. A. The next hour is divided into conferences on the various life callings the men expect to enter. Finally, at 8:20 at night, classes meet to discuss various “human problems” both at home and abroad.

Athletics an Enjoyable Feature

Probably one of the foremost features of attraction at Blue Ridge is found in athletics. The afternoons are entirely given over to the men to use as they choose, and soon after the opening of the conference, schedules are arranged in baseball, basketball, volleyball, and tennis. Last year practically every delegation had teams in most of the leagues. Davidson started out like a whirlwind, beating Auburn in baseball, Miss. A. & M. in volleyball, and walking entirely away from some other school in tennis. All these triumphs came in the same afternoon and for one night at least Davidson was a by-word all over the conference. For some reason, it has become customary among the men who were there last summer to stop at this point in discoursing upon their achievements in the athletic line, and this is probably not a fitting time to break silence. Ask one of these men and possibly he can explain why.

In addition to the forms mentioned above, there is a swimming pool, with diving stands and springboards which feels mighty fine after a game or a long mountain climb. It is rumored that this year other North Carolina schools are going to make it a point to send good teams to Blue Ridge. Davidson can’t afford to do other than likewise.

Daily Schedule at Blue Ridge

6:30 a.m.—Rising bugle.
7:30 a.m.—Breakfast.
8:30 a.m.—Bible classes.
9:30 a.m.—Discussion period, Y. M. C. A. methods.
10:30 a.m.—Social Service classes.
11:30 a.m.—Platform address.
12:30 p.m.—Dinner.
1:30 p.m.—Athletics and recreation: basketball, baseball, tennis, volleyball, swimming, gym work, mountain climbing, highest peak 6,211 feet, horseback riding, sightseeing, etc.
6:00 p.m.—Supper.
7:00 p.m.—Vesper service on lawn.
8:00 p.m.—Platform address.
9:00 p.m.—Get together hour for delegations.
10:30 p.m.—Lights out.

Cost of Trip

Railroad fare, round trip $—.
Board for 10 days, $20.
Conference registration, $5.

Nationally Known in No Time

Bevo has become the best friend of food and fellowship. Drink it for its purity and deliciously appetizing flavor. At the soda fountain or with your meals. Bevo must be served cold.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS

It must be Ice Cold

BREVARD, N. C.

W. McK. FETZER, Director

Athletic Educational Military

Six years of success and continued growth. Beautiful lake, baseball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect tennis courts, canoe trips to Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175. For information and catalog address the Secretary, MACON REED, Davidson, N. C., until June 1; after this date, Brevard, N. C.

Drink PEPSI-COLA

Stimulating - Exhilarating