Watch for Alumni Issue

SONIAN FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 8, 1920. No. 27

HONORED SIX MEN BY SIGMA UPSILON

The wearers of the mysterious safety pin have at last been released from their conspicuous badge. Those who stayed downtown
on last Thursday night were greeted by the presence of Enoch, his third daughter, Deep Dark Despair, and Dr. Analysis
Biology. The leader of the party was a Japanese peasant. While this little party rested in White’s Drug Store, the
peasant executed a clog dance in his wooden shoes and whirled his bamboo cane with such a vim that the
spectators sought safety under the tables. After this little exhibition, the performers were initiated into the Blue Pencil Chapter of
Sigma Upsilon. A feed followed the initiation, which helped greatly to revive the strength of those initiated after “the riding
of the goat.” Those taken in were Eris Cassel, W. P. Cumming, F. V. Long, D. L. Mahood, and J.
R. Walker. C. M. McCaskill has been pledged and will be initiated at a later date.

Improvements Are Planned at Meeting of Trustees

New Professors to be Added—Dr. J. B. Wharey Secured as Assistant Professor of English

The meeting of the board of trustees last week was one of the most momentous in recent years, perhaps in
the history of the college. The constructive work done and planned for the expansion of the college will not soon
be forgotten. Almost the entire board was present; 25 in person, 23 by proxy. This full attendance was necessary in
order to change the charter of the college, a two-thirds vote being necessary to pass on the changes which it
is desired to make by application to the legislature. The change asked for will make the college able to own
five million dollars’ worth of real estate and an equal amount of endowment. To make this application was the most
pressing need which gave occasion for the meeting. But the trustees did not stop here; they made provision for the
expansion of the college in many other ways. The salaries of regular professors were increased to $3,000 a year and
those of the president and other professors in like proportion. The chair of Geology and Mineralogy, the department of Economics,
the Cannon Professorship of English Bible, and the department of Education were established. Dr. Sentelle was elected to the Cannon
Professorship, and Professor Currie was transferred to the Department of Economics. Elections to the department of Education and of Geology
and Mineralogy were also made, but no announcement of the names of these new professors has been made. Dr. James
B. Wharey, '92, Professor of English in the University of Texas, was elected as co-ordinate Professor of English. The office
of Dean was created, and Dr. Sentelle was elected to fill it. Dr. W. R. Grey was elected vice-president of
the college. Reports were submitted by the finance committee that substantial progress was being made in the projects of enlarging
the heating plant, of erecting a new steam laundry, and of enlarging the house occupied by the Misses Shumaker to
accommodate 150 students for (Continued on page 7)

The fast fielding midget infield of this year's team. From left to right:

Davidson to be Represented in Series of Tournaments

Local Contests Begin Soon—Atlanta Tournament Grand Finale

Place: Atlanta; time: May 13, 14, 15; event: the Southern Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament. Will Davidson be represented? The Southern tournament
of last year was held on the clay courts of the East Lake Country Club of the Cracker capital. Davidson's
representatives on that occasion, in the persons of Hall and Spence, went to the finals of the doubles, where they
were eliminated by the champions of Dixie. Hall went to the semi-finals in the singles and was beaten only by
Fleiberman, of Tulane, who copped the singles title. Davidson has both of her last year’s representatives back, and in addition
to them Tommie Hawkins, local singles champion of several years ago. Will Davidson be represented? Davidson has a rep in
Atlanta for the fighting spirit of her teams which is surpassed by no other institution. The exchanges of The Davidsonian
are coming in every day with tales of what their teams are expecting to do in Atlanta. Will Davidson be
represented? Arrangements for intercollegiate matches with Trinity and Carolina are under way. It is also expected that several teams from
nearby towns will be met in the near future. The Atlanta meet is the big event of the year. Will
Davidson be represented? A tournament for the selection of (Continued on page 3)

Selected Chalmers, Brown, Mitchell and Ormond Win Places—Liston and Schenck Alternates

The men chosen last Wednesday night to represent Davidson in the intercollegiate debates this year are Chalmers, C. K. Brown,
A. P. Ormond, and Mitchell. All the speakers made good debates and reflected great credit on their respective societies. The
question was: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt some form of compulsory universal military training.” C. K. Brown, who
opened the debate for the affirmative, gave an excellent speech in his characteristic flowery style. A. P. Ormond, who followed,
gave a very convincing argument from the legal standpoint of the case. McCaskill had a good speech and onethat showed
careful preparation, but he depended too much on his notes. Mitchell, the concluding speaker, in addition to very forceful arguments,
had perhaps one of the smoothest deliveries exhibited during the entire evening. R. E. McClure, who opened the debate for
the negative, had also a very smooth delivery, but his arguments were weak. Schenck’s speech, delivered with all his accustomed
fire and earnestness, was thought by many to be one of the best of the evening, but he failed to
advance any new arguments in his rebuttal. R. L. Liston followed with a good speech, regularly punctuated by the Alabama
arm signal for “Do (Continued on page 3)

McArn, 1b; Ratchford, 2b; Cassell, F., short; Cassell, E., 3b. Photo by McIlwaine.

Catawba College Conquered in Clever Contest

Crawford and Poe Star for Wildcats—Shepherd and Miley Hold Visitors to Two Safeties—Festerman Pitches Well For Catawba

Davidson added another game to her winning streak Saturday by shutting out Catawba College 8 to 0. The play was
more exciting than the score indicates and was unusually fast, as no squabbling was done on either side. Six errors
marred the game, but aside from this both teams put up a good brand of ball. The Wildcats started the
fireworks in the third inning and from that time on proceeded to run the score up. Much of the scoring
was due to the clever execution of the squeeze play, which the winners used successfully three times.

Shepherd made his debut in the box by letting the visitors down with one hit in the six innings he
pitched. This came in the first inning when with two out Atwell connected for a double. From then on he
had his opponents eating out of his hand, only one man reaching first and that was on an error which
should have been handled without difficulty. Miley finished up the game, allowing one hit and fanning five. Festerman pitched a
good game for Catawba in the opening, but toward the end began to weaken. Six walked batsmen and two throws
coupled with a few hefty swats on the part of the Wildcats spelled defeat for him.

The features of the game were the batting of Poe and Crawford. The former connected for a double and a
single in three times up. Both of these were good clean hits and the former Clemson lad ran wild after
he got on the bases. Crawford had a perfect day, getting a triple and a single in two official times
at the bat. The other two times he came up he walked and sacrificed. His screaming triple to center hit
the fence before the fielders recovered it. Cassell, F., and Cassell, E., gave brilliant pieces of fielding and hard pick-ups.
Kor, the catcher, played the best game. His double to left in the opening inning just hit on the fair
side of the line and before Poe could recover it, the speedy lad was perched on the midway station. He
also accepted (Continued on page 10)

Best Yet

Alumni Urged to be Present—Many Class Reunions—Dr. Whaling to Deliver Address to Literary Societies

Commencement this year will be the biggest of recent years. This conservative statement is made in order to avoid all
appearance of evil; probably it will be the most grand and glorious fete that Davidson has known. Plans are well
under way to make it an event so attractive that students will be glad to resist the attractions of home
and of the only girl for a few days to stay and see this commencement; it is rumored that they
will stay. Social innovations astounding both in their character and their immensity will be perpetrated. Loyal alumni will be on
hand in large numbers. The class reunions will be such that no alumnus can afford to miss this feature. The
alumni banquet will not be held as usual; it will be held—yes! I'll say she will—on a scale wholly unprecedented.
The speaker for the literary society reunion is Dr. T. C. Whaling, and this is sure to be an enjoyable
occasion; society alumni will be featured and will in every way have a thoroughly enjoyable time. The usual meeting of
the board of trustees will be held. Among the other features planned is a probable band concert. Announcements will be
made in The Davidsonian; all alumni will do well to watch its columns and thus be thoroughly aware of what
to expect when they come here for the greatest commencement ever.

CALENDAR.

Thursday, Apr. 8—Baseball, Davidson vs Furman, 3:30 p.m.
Friday, Apr. 9—Bible Leaders’ Class, 7:15 p.m. Movies, 8 p.m., John Barrymore, in “The Dictator.”
Saturday, Apr. 10—11:50 a.m., “Special” leaves for Charlotte 3:30 p.m., Baseball, Davidson vs N. C. State, Wearn Field. 8 p.m.,
Band and Glee Club Concert at Queens College. 9:30 p.m., Reception to Davidson Student Body by Students of Queens. 11
p.m. “Special” leaves Charlotte.
Sunday, Apr. 11—Bible Classes 10 a.m. 6 p.m., Gov. Bickett will speak at the “Y.”

Student Body ELECTIONS NEXT MONDAY. THINK Before You Vote
