Den’! Miss the Copperhead

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCATS GALLOP WAKE FOREST FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VI.

Y SELECTS NEW STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

CURRIE CHOSEN

The Student Body at its annual election, held last Monday, chose A. L. Currie president for next year. For this office there were three other nominees, over whom “Buck” took the decision on the second ballot. L. W. Dick, from the rising Junior class, was elected one of the vice-presidents, while Cornelson and J. P. Price received an equal number of votes for the other vice-presidency. W. S. Shepard took the office of treasurer.

The election took place immediately after chapel Monday morning. President McAlister presided, and the business before the Student Body was at once entered upon. Printed ballots giving the names of the candidates were used, and each student was required to sign his ballot in accordance with the recently adopted constitution.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 15, 1920.

Big Hit

Excellent Program Enjoyed by Large Audience

One of the best and most enjoyable concerts given on the Hill this year was rendered Friday night by the Mitchell College Glee Club. Dressed in white, they presented an irresistible picture and from the first the audience was captivated. Nearly the whole student body turned out to hear the concert and the lack of inspiration, caused by empty benches, was not present.

The program opened with a song by the whole Glee Club, followed by a soprano solo by Miss Marion Moore. This number was especially good and was applauded long and vigorously. Following this, Miss Clark gave a reading, a selection from Bulwer-Lytton's "The Last Days of Pompeii," entitled “Glaucus to the Lion.” Next on the program was a solo, “Ye Banks and Braes,” by Miss Bessie Smith. After this came a piano solo by Miss Melissa Warlick, who rendered “Rigoletto, Paraphrase,” with fine technique and considering the length of the piece and the fact that she did not have her music in front of her, her performance was thought wonderful. The Glee Club then sang a group of songs: Swing Song, The Mill, and Can’t Yo’ Heah Me Callin’. They were encored twice and for the first one of the encores they made the strumming of the imaginary banjos seem so realistic that the audience wanted them to repeat the selection. Varie No. 6, De Beriot, a violin solo, played by Miss Ruby Johnson, met with much applause and she was called back to play again. A different piece, “The Waltz Song,” full of runs and trills, was sung by Miss Bristol with ease and smoothness that spoke of natural talent and long practice. The quartet, composed of Misses Terry, Brady, Smith, and Smith, told us all about the Whip-po-Will. Following this was a reading by Miss Deal, “How the La Rue Stakes Were Lost.” This was a fine number and one had only to shut his eyes to picture the race and the brilliant finish, so well was it given. “Barcarolle” was sung by the Glee Club, followed by “A Mitchell College Song,” this concluding a very delightful program. The personnel of the club included eight sopranos, six altos, two readers, a pianist, and a violinist. To the leader of the organization, Miss Amy Ward, belongs much of the credit for the fine performance of her proteges.

Governor T. W. Bickett Delivers Inspiring Address

“Standard of a Man's Life” Subject of Speech Before the Y. M. C. A.

Before an audience numbering some 500 people, Gov. Thomas W. Bickett delivered an address last Sunday on the subject, “The Standard of a Man’s Life.” The meeting was held in Shearer Hall and practically the entire student body as well as a large portion of the townspeople were present to hear the state's chief executive. Following a musical program, Governor Bickett was introduced by Mr. Miles.

CAROLINA GAME.

In an interesting contest staged at Cone Park, Greensboro, the Wildcats met their first defeat of the season, the gods of luck being with the University of N.C. who wrested a victory from the Wildcat aggregation by one lone tally, the final score being 3 to 2.

Davidson took the field with Shepard and Wrenn as the battery. Shepard was slow in finding the range and issued free passes to the first two facing him, thus filling the corners. The fourth man at bat hit a grounder to Cassell, E., who forced out the runner at home, but still left the bases crowded. The next batsman up rolled out a grounder to “Frog” Cassel who caught another going for the plate. At this time the Davidson supporters in the grandstand cheered lustily for the Wildcats for it seemed that Shepard was working himself out of a bad beginning. However, the next man up was given free transportation, forcing in the first tally of the game. Shepard then tightened up and made the next batter whiff at three. Llewellyn, on the mound for U. N.C. walked P. Cassel, lead off man for the Wildcats.

Sophomore Class Enjoys Splendid Banquet

Biggest Event of Soph Year Celebrated in Fitting Style

Friday night, April 9, was an important date in the history of the present Sophomore class. Shortly before 7:30 the boys began to congregate in the lobby of the Selwyn Hotel, and in a few minutes word came that dinner was served. Forty-five members and guests of the class of '22 immediately found their way to seats at the long table in the rear part of the dining room, and, after a short invocation by Dr. J. M. McConnell, all were seated. The table was decorated in the class colors, purple and gold, by Mr. Cecil H. Gilchrist and Miss Mildred Barbour, both of Charlotte. The first half-hour was quickly consumed in consuming the well-selected courses which were served. Mr. Walter I. Knox, acting toastmaster for the occasion, then began the more serious part of the entertainment. A warm welcome was extended to all the guests present, and then the men pushed back their chairs and prepared to listen to the opening address by the loquacious Knox. “Mr. Toastmaster” excused himself, however, saying that George Cornelson had stolen his notes. Mr. Cornelson was then called upon to speak. The advantages enjoyed by and the opportunities open to this class were forcibly presented, and everyone was urged to make the best of his time. The necessity of cultivating a spirit of unity in the class was shown, and especially more united efforts in the line of athletics. Mr. Cornelson was followed by Mr. C. A. Dunn, of the Davidson Band. Frank Hall, President of the Senior class, then, in a few well-chosen words, commended the excellent spirit shown by the class of ’22, and expressed a desire to see this spirit pervade the entire student body and to aid especially the Greater Davidson movement.

BAND TAKES SIX-DAY TRIP.

The R. O. T. C. Band is now on a trip thru South Carolina. The schedule was not complete when they left, but as nearly as could be learned, they plan to give concerts at Rock Hill, on Monday; Fort Mill, on Tuesday; and Columbia, on Wednesday.Ratchford, next up, rolled a grounder to the mound, forcing Cassel out at second. Shepard drove one out to center, advancing Ratchford to the second station. Then Shepard was caught off first. Richards struck out, ending the first frame. Carolina’s second score came in the second inning. The first batsman for U.N.C. reached first on a clean one to center. He advanced to second on a wild pitch and then stole third. The next batter hit to center, scoring the second tally. Shepard fielded McLean’s hot grounder to second, F. Cassel receiving the throw and relaying it to first, catching McLean before he reached the initial bag, thus making the only double play of the day. After this, Shepard allowed no more free passes and pitched an exceedingly good brand of ball. His work with the stick also featured.

The Wildcat’s first tally came in the third session when E. Cassel drove one to left field. Poe followed the good example with one in the same direction. McArn drew a free trip, filling the corners. Crawford grounded one to third, forcing Cassel out at home. Carolina’s catcher attempted to catch Crawford off first, but the first sacker, evidently not a Tar Baby product, allowed the spheroid to triple through his fingers, while Poe gleefully galloped across the plate with the Wildcat’s first marker.

Carolina’s concluding tally came in the ninth when it seemed that things would be tied up for a while, but luck broke against the Davidson contingent.

Milton ss .. 2 4 1 0 1 0
Lowe 1b .. 2 3 0 2 6 0 1
Llewellyn p .. 4 0 2 6 5 2
30 3 6 27 11 4

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Cassel, F. ss .. 4 1 1 3 3 0
Ratchford 2b .. 5 0 2 3 1 0
Shepard p .. 3 0 2 10 4 1
Richards cf .. 3 0 0 0 0 0
Wrenn c .. 4 0 1 2 1 2
Cassel, E. 3b .. 2 3 0 2 1 6 0
Poe lf .. 4 1 2 0 0 0
McArn 1b .. 2 1 0 0 8 0 0
Crawford rf .. 4 0 0 0 0 0
31 2 7 27 15 3

Score by innings R.H.E.
U.N.C. .. 110 000 010—3
Davidson .. 000 001 001—2

Summary—Two-base hits, Lowe, Younce; sacrifice hit, Shepard; stolen bases, McLean, Ratchford, Poe; struck out, by Llewellyn 6, by Shepard 10; bases on balls, off Llewellyn 4, off Shepard 4; hit by pitcher, Llewellyn 2, Shepard, Richards; double plays, Shepard to F. Cassel to McArn; hits, off Llewellyn 10, off Shepard 6; wild pitch, Shepard 2; left on bases, Carolina 6, Davidson 11; time of game, two hours and 20 minutes, Umpire, Carroll; Attendance 250.

N.C. STATE GAME.

The Wildcat nine fell before Murray's benders on Saturday of last week and lost their second game of the season. N.C. State turned the trick in a close and exciting game, by the score of 2 to 0. With two on in the second inning, Faucette connected onto one of Shepard’s offerings and slammed the ball to left-center for a double, driving in a brace of runs, enough to win it. The game was a pitcher’s duel between Murray of State and Shepard of Davidson. Both twirlers put out an excellent brand of stuff and displayed a weird and varied assortment of benders. Honors were about even with a slight shade in favor of the Tech artist. He allowed only four hits, one only going for an extra base. The remainder were kept well scattered. Seven hits were garnered off of Shepard, but three were of the fluke type. Bunched in the second inning, however, three of them spelled defeat for the Wilmington lad. Murray sent 8 back to the bench via the strikeout route, while Shepard caused 7 to whiff. Murray walked 3, and Shepard passed 2. The features of the game were (Continued on page 2).

WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE

Thursday—Davidsonians arrive 7:00
STAFF MEETING.
Friday—7:15 Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting.
Saturday—3:30 Davidson vs Wake Forest, Sprunt Field.
7:15 Literary Societies.
8:30 “THE COPPERHEAD.”
Sunday—10:00, Bible Classes.
6:00, Y.M.C.A. Meeting.
Monday—7:15 Eu Society.
Tuesday—3:30 Guilford vs Davidson at Guilford.
7:15 Fresh-Soph Debate, Shearer Hall.
Wednesday—3:30 N.C. State vs Davidson at Raleigh.

THROW AWAY Your HAMMER and Get a HORN. Be a BOOSTER.