THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

Christian MILLER, SCHENCK AND ROBERTS ADDRESS VOLUNTEER BAND

Much Interest Shown in Discussions of Volunteer Ideals and Purposes.

On last Sunday evening, the Volunteer Band held an interesting open meeting. A good number were present to hear questions of importance to every college student discussed. Three short talks formed the program. The call to a man’s task was discussed by P. D. Miller. Lewis Schenck told of the development and ideals of the Volunteer Movement. D. W. Roberts spoke of the Value of a Purpose.

The word “Volunteer” implies that there is a task to be accomplished, and there is a task before student volunteers today. Showing that the problems facing the world were no easy ones, Miller said that volunteers, now, to succeed must be men in every sense of the word. As the world, and especially the heathen world, is so rapidly developing in a physical way, those who would influence it must be able to enter the industrial life; so today comes the special call for professional and industrial men as missionaries. If you can raise more corn on an acre than any other man, then there is a place for you on the foreign field. In India, there is a great need and an earnest call for agricultural men. In China, the need for engineers and industrial men is great. There is also the ever-open need for doctors, nurses, and teachers. Here is the way to the heart of these people, and if we neglect to use it, the places will be filled with men who are not Christians. Only disaster could result from this. The Volunteer of today has probably the greatest chance in the world for service.

Schenck spoke briefly of the history of the Volunteer Movement, founded in 1886 by Dr. R. P. Wilder, of Mt. Hermon, Mass. The motive of the movement is four-fold: 1. To awaken and maintain among Christian students an active interest in missions. 2. To enroll a sufficient number of properly qualified volunteers to meet the successive demands of the mission boards. 3. To help all such intending missionaries in preparing for their life’s work. 4. To lay an equal responsibility on all students who are to remain at home, that they may actively promote the missionary enterprise by intelligent advocacy, gifts, and prayers. In meeting these purposes, the movement has grown rapidly during the past thirty years, and today occupies an important and unique place in college life.

Roberts spoke of the value of a purpose from the points of view of: Its personal value, its benefit to others, and its place in bringing in the kingdom of God. Personally, a purpose makes us stronger and enables us to accomplish more. There is much truth in the old adage, “The world steps aside when a man who knows where he is going comes by.” There is no other endurance like that inspired by a dominating purpose. Further, by definitely fixing our purpose in life, we test it and see whether or not it will stand. Its benefit to others, too, is great, and it is largely through a fixed and definite purpose that men advance the work of the kingdom of God. Then will you not lend your life to the accomplishing of the greatest task in the world? What’s God's plan for you? What is your purpose in life?

After these talks, the audience enjoyed a violin solo, “Traumerei,” given by C. E. Cunningham.

SUNDAY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE

The “Y” Sunday Schools report the following attendance:
Cornelius—55 pupils, 5 teachers.
Caldwell—28 pupils, 5 teachers.
Oak Grove—26 pupils, 4 teachers.
Shearer—60 pupils, 5 teachers.
Mill—35 pupils, 3 teachers.
Brawleys—No report.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING for College Students Is Our Specialty
Our rapidity of service makes no extra distance a disadvantage. Our prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., - - Atlanta, Georgia

We send records on approval.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.
Write for special service plan

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service. He wants your business.

“CONFESSION OF CHRIST” SUBJECT OF DR. RICHARDS’ SERMON

Sunday Morning Hears Reasons for Acknowledgement of Jesus Christ.

“Why should we confess the Lord Christ?” That all-important question for every human soul was Dr. Richards’ theme at the regular service on Sunday morning. The text, taken from Mark 5:31, gives us the question asked by Jesus tothe lowly woman who had touched the hem of His garment in the hope that she might receive a blessing: “Who touched Me?” This shows us that every person for whom Jesus has ever done anything is morally bound to confess Him openly, and surely we should, for Jesus himself bids us, and promises us that if we confess Him here before men He will confess us before the Heavenly Father. Taking up some of the reasons Dr. Richards said, that an open acknowledgment often has an important effect on us and our associates here in this life; many have been led to accept Him because of the influence of some Christian friend. Then confession definitely commits one to Him as Lord and Master, and this definite committal will always prove a great strengthening factor in the Christian life, and also a power for restraining us from the wrong. Finally, all who have been benefited by Him should certainly acknowledge this benefaction, for it is reasonably due Him. And now, since these things are so, why do men hesitate to acknowledge Christ? To be sure, it is no easy thing to come out and take one’s stand on the side of right, and great moral courage is required. This is probably the reason why many fail to take the step. Again, many men are unwilling to bind themselves to try to do Christ's will continually, but surely no one will contend that one who is willing to accept the benefits of Christianity should be ashamed or afraid to openly follow Christ. On the other hand, some possibly fear that their faulty living may bring reproach upon the Church and the Lord Jesus, but Christ is able to save us from our sins as well as from Hell, and we should believe that He can keep us clean and help us live the true Christian life.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR KEEPING ALIVE
Institute, Early Morning Service, and Missionary Presentation Draw Interest.

“Variety is the spice of life,” the Christian Endeavorers believe. One interesting plan after another serves to keep the thermometer of interest at a high mark. On Sunday the 21st, a Christian Endeavor Institute will be held in Charlotte. The General Secretaries of the Southern and National organizations will be present for a series of helpful conferences. A delegation of one or more automobile loads will go from Davidson. Several cars from Mooresville are coming through Davidson and both delegations will go from Davidson together. At seven o'clock Thanksgiving morning the Davidson Endeavorers will hold a thank service at the church. The unusual hour and the spirit of the day are expected to contribute to a very interesting service. A committee is busy investigating to see if anyone in Davidson is in need of help toward a real Thanksgiving observance, and the Endeavorers will be asked to help meet any needs that are found, bringing their gifts to the early morning meeting. On the last Sunday afternoon of the month the Endeavorers are to have a missionary presentation. Mr. W. M. Cumming, of Wilmington, father of “Bill” Cumming of the class of 1918, through his interest in Christian Endeavor and in missions, has given the local society fifty dollars to be given for equipment in one of the seven countries in which the Southern Presbyterian Church does mission work. The claims of these countries will be presented by seven Endeavorers, using a touch of costume. Christian Endeavor president, Frank Toney will preside as Uncle Sam. The society will then vote on which country is to get the fifty dollars. The college students and the townspeople are cordially invited to be present. It is hoped that Mr. Cumming can be present for the meeting.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE
High Class Moving Pictures
Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano
Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request.
Repairing Moving
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
ESTABLISHED 1842
M. D. MANNING, Manager
210 S. Tryon Street

Tuning NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
J. W. STEWART, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.
R. A. DUNN, President
Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”
Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more—no limit. Full death benefit in addition—double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.
G. W. PATTERSON, Gen'l Agt.
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company
1016-18 Realty Bldg, Charlotte, N.C.
Openings for Live men as agents

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total Disability and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?
J. P. QUARLES, Manager