THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1920.

Mr. Hurd, father of Allen Hurd, ex-'24, broke his arm while attempting to crank an automobile in Dr. McConnell's front
yard last week.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

FRANCIS HENRY FRIES. Has Done Good Work in Commercial Development of N. C.

To write the complete history of Francis Henry Fries and of the affairs in which he shared the hazard is
to take up and review the commercial progress of North Carolina for 30 years. Francis Henry Fries, the second son
of his honored family, was born in Salem, February 1, 1855. His immediate ancestry came to this country from Saxony,
in 1809, with what is known as the Moravian colony. They settled amidst the virgin forest in piedmont North Carolina,
under the name of Wachovia.

In 1870 young Fries entered Davidson College. He graduated from this prominent seat of learning in due course with distinction,
and returned to his home at once to begin the work of his life. In 1878, together with his uncle,
H. W. Fries, and his brother, H. E. Fries, he made an interesting voyage to Europe. On his return from
that continent, although then a young man, he took charge of the cotton and woolen mills of Salem as their
superintendent. On the election of Governor Scales as Governor of North Carolina, in 1884, Fries was called on to take
a place on his military staff. He accepted and served with the rank of colonel during the four years’ term
of his chief.

When only 32 years of age, he shouldered the great burden of building and financing a new and independent railroad
system from Roanoke, Va., across the Blue Ridge Mountains to Winston-Salem. With only $40,000 subscribed, after four years of unceasing
labor, it was completed under his leadership at a cost of $2,000,000. Colonel Fries followed its interests until it merged
into the Norfolk & Western Railway Company, which completed one of the most valuable enterprises ever undertaken by private citizens
in the Piedmont section.

Then in 1893 he projected the famous banking house and trust company known as the Wachovia Loan and Trust Company.
The original capital was $200,000, but soon this amount was doubled, then another increase was made to its present capital
stock of $1,333,000. Within recent years branches have been established in Asheville, Salisbury, High Point, and Spencer. Today the Wachovia
Bank and Trust Company is the largest bank in the Carolinas, with surplus and deposits of over $19,000,000. Besides being
founder and president of this bank, Colonel Fries is president of the Washington Banking & Trust Company, of Fries, Va.,
and is a director of the Wachovia National Bank of Winston-Salem, N. C.

Colonel Fries is president of the Mayho Mills, Avaton Mills, and Washington Mills. These three cotton mills represent a capital
and surplus of $3,000,000. He is at present director of the Arista Mills, Winston-Salem; Oakdale Mills, Jamestown, N. C., and
Thistle Mills, Ilchester, Maryland. One bale of cotton, out of every 500 raised in the United States; one out of
every 150 used in America, or one out of every 75 used in the South is made in mills controlled
by Colonel Fries.

In 1881 he married Letitia Walker Patterson, daughter of Hon. Rufus L. Patterson, who with an only daughter, died in
1884. In 1886 he was married to Anna de Schwinitz, and this gracious and accomplished lady, and one daughter, now
compose his household. Colonel Fries is a member of the Moravian Church, of Salem, N. C., and is now a
member of the board of elders of the Home Moravian Church. His last great achievement was to build the Winston-Salem
Southbound Railway Company from Winston-Salem to Charleston, S. C., across the N. & W., Southern, A.C. L. and S. A.
L. railroads. His life work reads the strong and forceful story that goes with the best traditions of American enterprise.

Joseph Powell Watkins, '13, was struck by an automobile at Henderson, N. C., the blow causing concussion of the brain,
from which he died on Sunday, October 24. The daily papers state that he was helping a blind man across
the street.Street and so failed to see the approaching car. He entered Davidson with the class of 1912, but the
condition of his eyes made it necessary for them to have complete rest for a year between his Sophomore and
Junior years, so he graduated in 1913. In spite of his handicaps, he was a thorough and excellent student, and
stood for everything that was upright and honorable. His affection and interest here centered around the Young Men's Christian Association
and the Philanthropic Society. After his graduation, his loyalty and love for the college have been shown in scores of
ways. He completed the course at Union Theological Seminary in 1916, but was never able to go into the active
ministry. It is stated that when being examined for entrance into the Presbytery, someone put a test question: “How about
it, if when your training is finished you should be unable to preach?” His reply was, “That would break my
heart,” and only his closest friends knew how sore a heart he carried his last four years, or how keenly
he felt the burden of the world’s need. He took up outdoor life, however, and gave himself heartily to the
forms of Christian work that lay at hand and were within his power. It was characteristic of him to be
helping someone who needed help, and there is added pathos in his going, that his last act was lending aid
to one who could not see. In the death of Joe Watkins, Davidson and the Presbyterian Church lost a true
and devoted son.

Business and gives significance to American progress. The splendid achievements of this remarkable man may be but forerunners of greater
achievements yet to come.

VARDELL-SPRUNT.

Marriage of Davidson Alumnus. On October 27, Miss Margaret Vardell, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. C. G. Vardell, and Mr.
Alexander Sprunt, Jr. ex-'19, were wedded in the Presbyterian Church in Red Springs, the father of the groom, Dr. Alexander
Sprunt, of the First Presbyterian Church of Charleston, S.C., performing the ceremony. The groomsmen were Messrs. Charles Vardell, Jr., Red
Springs; James Wells, Charleston, S.C.; Charles Bergen, Charlotte, and Dalziel Sprunt, Wilmington. The groomsmen were followed into the church by
the bridesmaids, Misses Elizabeth Vardell and Sara Dixon, and Misses Dick Vardell and Eloise Martin. Then followed Miss Ruth Vardell,
sister of the bride. The bride then entered on the arm of her father, President C. G. Vardell, of Flora
Macdonald College, who gave her in marriage. The bridegroom and best man, Mr. James Sprunt, of Charleston, S.C., entered from
the vestry room and met the bride at the front of the pulpit. Later in the evening, the couple left
via auto for Fayetteville, catching a late train for New York. Mrs. Sprunt was a member of the class of
’21 at Flora Macdonald, and has hosts of friends both in North and South Carolina. Mr. Sprunt is a Davidson
man and is at present engaged in business in Charleston.

THE COMMISSARY.

The Commissary is an organization run under the auspices of the Athletic Association. This year they have taken two rooms
at the Power House, remodeling and fixing them up-to-date. The Commissary is supposed to handle all the athletic goods used
by the various teams of the college and all ordinary student supplies. This year sweaters, stationery, notebooks, books, magazines, college
belts, felt goods, and memory books have been added to the regular line. Each year the executive committee of the
Athletic Association appoints three men to run this organization. They are responsible for all goods handled, to the executive committee.
A monthly statement is rendered of business done, and 50 percent of profits on all athletic goods is given to
the Athletic Association. In addition, the Commissary orders all athletic goods at wholesale prices without making any profit. The students
each year are allowed to carry a few side lines, such as ordinary clothing, memory books, etc. This year C.
L. Matthews, J. E. Cassell, and J. McCaskill have been appointed by the executive committee to have charge of the
Commissary.

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES

PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN

213 N. Tryon St.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music, and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry
OLDEST LARGEST BEST

The Macamac Company, Agency
POWER HOUSE

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.
