DR. FRASER HOOD SPEAKS AT ROCK HILL. Makes Two Addresses and a Banquet Talk.

Dr. Fraser Hood, our Professor of Psychology, by invitation of the Anderson Motor Co., of Rock Hill, spoke to its
one hundred or more representatives from all over the United States on October 13 on “The Contribution of Psychology to
the Problems of Salesmanship.” This address was so impressive that Dr. Hood has been asked to furnish copies for publication
in several automobile journals as being the first speech of its kind applying psychology to the selling of automobiles. Dr.
Hood also made a very interesting talk at the banquet given for those attending the three-day conference of the Motor
Company. While in Rock Hill, Dr. Hood was requested to speak to the young ladies of Winthrop College. This he
did at their chapel service, his subject being “Psychology in Life.”

ASSISTANT MANAGERS ELECTED.

A meeting of the Athletic Association was called by the president after chapel Tuesday, October 12, for the purpose of
electing assistant baseball and basketball managers. There were four students who had previously been nominated by the executive committee of
the association for assistant managers; they were: L. W. Dick, George Cornelson, J. D. Price, and D. P. McGeachy. Since
there were no further nominations, upon the suggestion of the president the first two candidates were named as assistant managers
for the D.C. quintet, and the second two for the Davidson nine. They were unanimously elected to office by the
student body.

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY Full Line of Pennants THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920.

MORE INT

F. M. DUNLAP

Join our McSwiney Club and save your hoard money. Eggzactly. Fresh, as he sees book on ‘Habit,’ by Wm. James—"Shucks,
I know all about habit—good habits and bad habits.”

Davidson Row Was Full. Baldwin and Rifle-Rest sure got in a box while in Charlotte last Saturday—that is, at Keith's.

Marking Time, Of Course. Soph—“Is the clock running?” Fresh, (after inspection)—"Naw, it's standing still and waggling its tail.”

Cox; W. M. wants to know what happened to all that money that was raised for him the other night.

Robt. Davidson—"I’d like to go down to Charlotte today, er— to see my sister.” Officer on Leave of Absence— “How
long have you known her?” Robt. D.—“About three weeks, Sir.” (Let the curtain fall on this sad scene.)

Help. Is it proper to tell a girl on her birthday that you wish her “many happy returns?"

For W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler The Opening of the Winter Season Davidson, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY, VA. EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented: The College. The Department of Graduate Studies. The Department of Law. The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering. The Department of Education. The Summer Session. Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments.
Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address
THE REGISTRAR.

SPORTS A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the
Spalding trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them. The Spalding trade mark is a
guarantee of quality and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request. A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY STORE at THE COMMISSARY

THE MACAMAC COMPANY Presents C. JACKSON MATTHEWS with J. Eris Cassell and J. Clyde McCaskill In The Dramatic Success SUDDEN
RICHES Comedy of Jewish Life In Four Acts

Synopses: Act I. C. J. arrives, unheralded and unknown. Act II. C. J. starts a little shop in North Chambers.
Act III. C. J. removes to the Power-house—and flourishes. Act IV. C. J. buys a Buick. Costumes by Finchly and
Strouse, of New York and Baltimore, respectively. Hours. Any ol’ time. Admission: All you’ve got. (Free Adv.)

Stationary Run. It has been suggested that students stand at attention while passing the Colors.

PARKER-GARDNER CO. Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Player Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records We send records on approval Write for special
service plan

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND. Our Rainbow Girl. When we don't writeto her she is blue. When we take out another
girl she is black with rage. If that girl has pretty clothes and is popular, then she is green with
envy. But when we send her flowers and candy she is tickled pink. Some Girl!

Classified:
Wanted: A machine to turn hot air into “gas.” See C. J. Matthews at the Powerhouse.

Can You Beat It?
A fair informant of ours ups and says that Charlie Tuller is cute.

How It Works. (Or a visit to our Laundry.)
We wondered how they did it, so we sauntered down to see. The process is indeed marvelous and wonderful to
behold. First, the clothes are run through the De-buttoner. When the clothes come out of this machine they are carefully
examined and if any buttons remain they are run through again. After it is certain that all these hard obstacles
are removed, the clothes are passed through the Ripper and Mangler, a truly marvelous production of mechanical genius which does
all that its name implies. From this contraption, they go to the De-colorer and from there to the Stunner and
Streaker which is also one of the seven wonders of Davidson. They are then passed through the Distorter and pushed
through the Wrinkler. The clothes are now moistened, tied in knots, and packed into small packages which can be had
by giving your phone number backwards to the manager.

First Fresh: “Do you drink anything?”
Second Fresh: “Yes, anything.” Ex.

You tell ‘em hula dancer, you've got a motion before the house. ~ The Vanderbilt Hustler.

When the Vampire was young and in college, she said, “Kiss me, my fool.” And not being hers or a
fool, he did. Ex.

I don’t:
My parents told me not to smoke. I don’t;
Nor listen to a naughty joke, I don’t;
They told me I should never drink, I don’t;
And never speak before I think, I don’t;
Don’t learn wrong, I don’t;
Nor listen to a jazzy song, I don’t;
They told me do not flirt with girls, I don’t;
And don’t go crazy over curls, I don’t;
I kiss no girls—not even one,
In fact, I don’t know how it’s done,
I don’t—honestly.

Another Horse.
Soph—What does that ’23 mean?
Fresh—Dunno. Unless it means one less than '24.

Soph to roommate—“If it’s heads we go to bed. If it’s tails we stay up, and (nervously) if it stands
on edge we study.”

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Say it with Flowers
W. L. A. ELLIOTT
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.

See me for your feeds
New Central Hotel
Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK
“If you want it off, do not put it on”
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats---anything made of rubber.
Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package
by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S.C.
Wholesale Accessories

OUR NEW HOME
DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent
