2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1920.

Cracker football circles so far. Well fellows—we got licked again last week, at the hands of Washington and Lee. Don’t ever think that the fellows didn’t fight, though. The best the Generals could do was to score two field goals out of four attempts. Four times they were within 10 yards of a touchdown—but the Wildcat line held. “The team may be down, but it’s never out.”

We stack up against Georgia Tech this week. It’s the hardest game on the whole schedule. The Golden Tornado has a whirlwind team this year. The team needs your support worse now than ever. Don’t lay down! Everybody push! Watch ’em fight Saturday!

N. C. State, 14; Navy, 7. N. C. State, 23; Davidson, 0. Doesn’t look so bad, does it?

Georgia Tech’s line averages 186, according to accounts from that camp. The backfield tips around 164. Sounds rather light for a Tornado team. We wonder?

Richmond College licked Lynchburg College 27 to 0. We tackle the Spiders in a couple of weeks. Let’s tear that web of theirs to pieces. (P.S.—The Sporting Editor doesn’t like Richmond. He lives there).

Wake Forest, our enemies next week, are surely going good so far this year. Tech beat them 44 to 0, but the Baptists recuperated far enough in a week to hold Carolina to a lone touchdown. Rabenhorst punted brilliantly for the losers and kept the ball well in the enemies’ territory. The Wake Forest defense was also stiff. Carolina got to the Baptists’ five-yard line, but they couldn’t get across. Looks like a stormy sea ahead, doesn’t it?

South Carolina nosed out Wofford in a 10 to 0 game. Must have been a pretty brilliant affair. The Gamecocks always turn out a scrapping team and no doubt we’ll have plenty of opposition there.

Furman has taken two scalps now. Elon fell first by a 33 to 0 score. Erskine was the second victim; Billy Laval’s proteges trouncing them by a 41 to 0 score. Looks as if we will have trouble repeating that 41 to 14 victory of last year.

GEORGIA TECH READY TO DO BATTLE WITH WILDCATS

The Golden Tornado seems to have gained its stride early in the season as evidenced by the trouncings they have administered the last two games, but the Wildcats are hoping to make them falter and step back several paces during the game next Saturday.

An unprecedented number of men answered the call of Coach Alexander, the chauffeur of the Tech machine this year, and when the roll was called down yonder it was found that they numbered an even century. This included the Varsity, Scrubs, and Freshmen. Of this number, there were 14 lettermen of last year and a larger number of the Fresh squad of last year returned.

The Engineer’s team is led by Captain Buck Flowers, former Davidson star, and stellar light of the Tech crew. He is hailed as the premier footballist of the South and as captain, he is fully justifying the faith of his followers. With him in the backfield are “Red” Barron, halfback; Judy Harlan, fullback, and McDonough, quarterback. Without a doubt, this is a great backfield and the line that stops them will have done well. In addition to these men, Coach Alexander has several others who are equally as good. Ferst, the star against Davidson last year, Mayer, quarterback, Giaver, fullback, Welchel, fullback, and Scarboro, halfback, are giving the first-named men a run and the choice of a first-string backfield is still uncertain.Pianos, Player Pianos, Victor Records
We send records on approval
Write for special service plan
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Tech has a line which will average Victrolas and Er TAT RH AU A THN SD Citadel dropped their game to the University of Georgia by a 40 to 0 score. Everything seems easy down ocks horns with them.

CAPTAIN HAMMETT.
Lawrence Orr Hammett, Captain of this year’s football team, and star tackle, is a man who will long be remembered at Davidson for his work on the gridiron. His name is already written large in the history of Carolina football. Coming here from Clemson with a big “rep” he has not only sustained it but has added to it until he is now regarded as the premier lineman of the South Atlantic States. Noted for his fighting on the offense and stone wall defense, he was the logical man to lead the Wildcats this season. In every game played this year he has received mention by all the newspapers because his opponents have been outplayed and outgeneraled. Hammett weighs about one hundred and eighty pounds and is all in both the games this year he has been outweighed twenty pounds but he has more than held his own. As Captain he is doubly effective, keeping his side of the line solid and unbreakable, and instilling the wildness into the Wildcats.

about 186 pounds while the backfield totals up 170 pounds. There are three men on the team weighing two hundred pounds or over. These giants are Caldwell, Johnson, and Al Staton. The line that will probably start the game against the “Red and Black Machine” is as follows: Amis, center, with Lebey and Johnson on either flank. Fincher and Al Staton seem to have the call on the tackles, as do J. Staton, kid brother to the aforesaid Mr. Staton, and Granger on the ends. The bleachers at Grant field are being strengthened and enlarged to accommodate the crowds that will attend the Davidson-Tech game. The football artists from the southern metropolis are looking forward to the hard-fought game that they have always had with the Wildcats, but one thing they don’t know yet is how small the score is going to be. The men under Coach Grey have been beaten but they don’t know the word conquered, and they are going to try their best to stop the Tornado and do to them what was done twice last year. “Go get ‘em Wildcats.”

The Advertisers in This Paper Are Responsible for Four-Fifths of Its Expenses. PATRONIZE Them

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Fall Sports---
Are now on with the passing of baseball. Call or write us.
We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting Goods.
Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

The Western Theological Seminary
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Founded by the General Assembly 1825
A Seminary for College Graduates
A complete modern theological curriculum with elective courses leading to the degree of B.D. is offered to students of all denominations. Graduate courses of the University of Pittsburgh, leading to degrees of A.M. and Ph.D., are open to properly qualified students of the Seminary. Exceptional library facilities. Two entrance prizes of $150 each. Fellowship of $500. All buildings are new, with the latest modern improvements. Social hall, gymnasium, and students’ commons. For information apply to

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, October 7th, 8th, and 9th
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Case
ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
THORNTON SISTERS
In “Bits of Harmony”
EDYTHE and EDDIE ADAIR
In “The Boot Shop,” by Stephen Champlin
SAXOPHONE SEXTETTE
An Outburst of Music and Harmony
MALLEN CASE
Another Good Man Goes Wrong
CAPLIN and WELLS
Fun in a Restaurant