- co THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920. o Dr. J. W. McConnell was called to Gastonia on Saturday owing to the illness of his sister. Pennants, College Belts, Freshman Caps, Tennis Rackets, Golf Balls, and Sweaters are a few of the items you can buy LITERARY NEWS * Ed z * * * * * * * * * SOCIETY PROGRAMS FOR FEBRUARY 7, 1920 x * Eumenean Society Section 1—February 7 Regular Debate Affirmative: Negative: Baba Cunningham, C. E. Soulware Menge Gamble Boyd Bailey, H. P. Smith, H. H. Declamations: Sanders, C. B. Sorrells Oration: Craig, R. R. Section 2—February 9 Regular Debate Affirmative: Negative: Manning Erwin, M. Phillips Mauze, G. W. Wyman, H. H. McAlpine Price, J. P. Rare Declamations: Lowry Richards, W. J. Oration: Hollandsworth. Phi Society Regular Debate Affirmative: Negative: Brown, C. K. Brown, F. L. Baldwin, J. W. Hooker, E. N. Smith, J. T. Farmer, J. D. Extemporaneous Debate Affirmative: Negative: Hall, R. L. Deaver, R. R. Declamation: Hodgen, C. T. Oration: Gaston, J. M. x oe & me eR oF iii a a a a a er fe + Monday Section of Eu Society The Monday night section of the Eu Society held its first meeting this week. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, that the United States Should Establish a Protectorate Over Mexico.” Dick, L. W., and Patterson, who upheld the negative, won the decision over Phillips and Lowry, champions of the affirmative. Phillips brought out America’s responsibility in developing the resources of Mexico, while his colleague Lowry showed our moral obligation AT THE COMMISSARY | Come in and look them over | THE COMMISSARY to establish a protectorate over this disorganized country. Patterson’s main speech dealt with the unfavorable light in which the United States would be placed by the taking over of Mexican problems, and Dick argued that Mexican freedom would be violated. The declaimer of the evening was Patrick, who bravely struggled through a part of “The Old Kentucky Home.” The oration rendered by Hollandsworth was decidedly the best number on the program. When he arose to give his original production the orator had not yet decided what its title was to be, but in spite of its nameless condition the audience was greatly pleased, and much applause followed Hollandsworth’s description of his experiences in Paris on the night of the signing of the peace treaty. The society adjourned after the usual warning of the treasurer concerning unpaid dues. JUNIORS LABORING MANFULLY IN SPITE OF SHAKY NERVES Complete List of Speakers to be Published Next Week. With Junior Speaking only three weeks off, the watchword of the Junior class has changed from “Have you written your speech?” to “Have you learned your speech?” There will be 66 speakers this year, the largest number since before the war. We suppose there will be five groups of speakers instead of the usual four. Most of the subjects have been chosen and Jim McKeldin is going to order the invitations this week. There are as usual quite a variety of subjects. They range from “Our Next President” to “Spiritualism,” and from “Verba in Ventos” to “Yamata No Miria.” J. G. Barnette answers D. R. Freeman's “Is There a Fountain of Youth?” with “The Value of Athletics.” In answer to Burgesse’s question, “What Does Davidson Need?” there are several theories advanced. E. H. Brown says it is “The Iron Mule;” Gaither claims it is “Diligence;” Gaston maintains it is “The Master Key;” Hill is in favor of “White Coal;” Hodgin wants “The New Dawn;” King would like to have “Billy Sunday” pay us a visit, while G. E. Miley thinks that “Perseverance” would be better than anything else. It is hoped Davidson will get some of these, but a swimming pool and a new dormitory would be better. Ormand’s subject “The Queerest Thing in the World” is questioned by Mitchell, who asks “Is It?” M. A. Tremain takes for his title “China,” while Miller would like to know “Can She Come Back?” A full list of the speakers and their subjects will be published next week. EU. SOCIETY INITIATES NEW MEN—HUNTER URGES PHI’S TO WAKE UP C. K. Brown Entertains With Oration—Eu’s Program Not Up to Standard. Phi Society. The Phi Society met in regular debate Saturday night. The question under discussion was: “Resolved, That the U. S. should establish a protectorate over Mexico.” Query, Russell, and McClure, argued for the affirmative, whileLong, Wilson, and Smith, W. C., defended the negative. Russell, for the affirmative, showed that both the U.S. and Mexico would be benefited by this protectorate. McClure, following him on the same side, maintained that this was an opportunity and obligation to the U.S. Query summed up the arguments of his colleagues. On the negative, Long argued that Mexico isn’t ready for this protectorate, and she doesn’t want it. He opposed said question also because this is legislation by and for the capitalists, who have great oil interests down there. Wilson thought the cost of establishing this protectorate prohibitive, and Smith stated that the U.S. already had enough on its hands. The affirmative won the decision by a 2-1 vote.

C. Hunter appealed to the society to get the old “Phi Spirit,” and get to doing things. He reminded the Phis that the Eus now have the debating cup—the first time it has ever passed out of the possession of the Phi.

C. K. Brown entertained the society in an enlightening oration on the poem “The Old North State.” He gave as the author (or authoress) Mrs. Leonore Martin, of Louisville, Ky. For any other information as to the date, etc., of “The Long Leaf Pine” see Mr. Brown.

The extemporaneous affair was staged by Lacy and Hill. The question (supposedly) under debate was: “Resolved, that Sunday breakfast should be abolished.” Lacy had the affirmative, Hill the negative. As to decision, debate, etc., little is known. Probably Lacy lost though, for he was out bright and early Sunday morning “looking chow.”

Eu Society. The first section of the Eumenean Society held its regular meeting on Saturday night. On account of the large number of members, it was decided some time ago to have two sections of the society, one to meet on Saturday night and one on Monday night. The program as a whole was not up to the standard, one reason being that several of the debaters were appointed extemporaneously. The most interesting feature of the meeting was the initiation of the following new members: Bradley, S. H.; Calhoun, A. B.; Gentry, E. T.; McCutchen, George, and McCutchen, W. R. After the initiates had exhibited their literary talents in various ways the society adjourned to attend the movies.

PROF. FULLBRIGHT’S INSTRUCTION GREATLY BENEFITS STUDENTS

Professor Fullbright left Davidson Monday after completing his month’s work here. He went from here to Erskine, where he will give a course similar to the one he gave the Freshman English and Public Speaking classes. The Public Speaking class, and especially those would-be speakers, report much benefit from his lectures. The Freshmen, while they will not admit it, show marked improvement under Professor Fullbright’s tutorship. Professor Fullbright, in his short stay here, has won the respect and admiration of the entire student body. The best wishes of all go with him in his work.

LIBRARY HAS NEW BOOKS. Novel by Premier Clemenceau.

A few of the new books ordered for the library last November have arrived and have been catalogued. A novel, “The Strongest,” by Premier Georges Clemenceau, shows that the “Tiger of France” can do other things besides guide affairs of state. Among others of the new fiction received are the following titles: Mare Nostrum, by V. Blasco Ibanez. The Box With Broken Seals, by E. Phillips Oppenheim. The Yellow Typhoon, by Harold MacGrath. The Secret of the Tower, by Anthony Hope. Ramsey Milholland, by Booth Tarkington. The Green Pea Pirates, by Peter B. Kyne. The Cottage of Delight, by Will N. Harben. The Builders, by Ellen Glasgow.

We want Agents where not already represented. Have you Reliable Equipment —FOR— Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports. ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc. 26 East 42d St., New York City.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats

You will find our Stock the most complete in the Carolinas. Everything Men and Boys wear ---the Best of Quality. Stetson Hats Edwin Clapp Shoes Manhattan Shirts

We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU. Mail orders attended to promptly.

MELLON’S 10 WEST TRADE ST.