THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1920.

On the Gridiron

AND WE MUZZLED THE “BULLDOG.”

Features of the contest: When Romefelt broke through and threw Jarvis for a ten-yard loss; when on the next play,
Faison dropped Pollock for a five-yard loss; Clary’s spectacular end runs; Hammett’s defensive work; “Bobby” Long’s broken field running; “Gig”
Shepherd’s line bucking; “Sam” Brady's goal kicking.

“The ebony hue of Wake Forest’s colors,
We smeared into their gold;
With one wide swipe
Of the Wildcat’s paw,
The Spiders were crushed; we're told.
The smashing Bulldog came on with a rush,
But was muzzled, ‘ere he got far;
The Gamecocks next
Their doom will meet,
When they try to cross Davidson's bar.”

Food for Thought.
U. of Ga. 37.
U. of N.C. 7.
C. 3, Clemson 0.

Davidson won from Wofford by a larger score than did Carolina. This is hardly any advantage at all, and we
are expecting a battle royal between two so evenly matched teams. A large number of students are expected to make
the trip with Sol Metzger’s bunch of Huskies. Davidson is planning a hearty but snappy welcome for them. Coach Grey
will probably send in the same line-up as he used against the Citadel. Cassell is still out with a bad
knee and Schenck, Moore, Poe, and Shepherd, N. will have to again watch the game from the bench. It is
hoped that McFadden will be healed enough to go the whole route. His services are more than welcomed by the
Wildcat camp.

Standing of Teams
Class Won Lost Pct
Juniors 1 0 1.000
Sophs 1 0 1.000
Seniors 0 1 0.000
Fresh 0 1 0.000

Class ball has gotten off to a flying start now and the first two games were interesting exhibitions. One thing
was lacking, however. That one thing was “Class Spirit.” Oh, it was there in a fair quantity, but each class
ought to be out to the man, and help his team win. How about it from now on. Let’s get
tight before the Varsity games.

JUNIORS DEFEAT SENIORS IN HARD FOUGHT GAME
Down Fresh Easily—Rough Sophs Work a Feature.

In a hard-fought and interesting contest which was marked by the pep of the rival classes, the Juniors defeated the
Seniors by the close score of 19 to 1. Although this game opened the class basketball series, the players showed
mid-season form, both fives fighting grimly to the final whistle with untiring efforts. The game was fast, and at times
rough, but on the whole, the two quintets showed good basketball, their passing being hard and accurate.

The line-up was as follows:
Sophs: Position: Fresh:
Brake Forward Tony (8) Pitts (2)
Alexander (2) Forward McPherson
Crawford (7) Center McDonald (4)
Guard
Substitutes: Mauze (6); Bostic (4); McLaren (2). Referee: Doubles. Scorer: Miss Kalista Hood, of Queens College, spent the week-end with
Dr. and Mrs. Hood. Rev. T. K. Currie, ’05, of Columbus, Ga., has been spending several days at the home
of his mother, Mrs. J. L. Currie. Miss Gladys Henderson became the bride of Mr. Cloyd A. Potts Saturday night
at 6:30. Dr. C. M. Richards performed the ceremony. They left immediately for Washington and other points. On their return,
they will make their future home at Davidson.

Did You Know——
That it is planned to build a new dormitory the year after the year after next year?
That twelve men, good and true, take Greek 6?
That Mr. Helper has one hundred pounds of assorted buttons for sale at the laundry?

DAVIDSON GOLFERS WIN FROM SALISBURY
Visitors Lose in Well-Played Matches.

In a hot contest last Thursday, Davidson emerged a close winner in the golf match with Salisbury. The winners held
the advantage by the close score of one up in four foursomes. Four matches were played. Lloyd and Walker defeated
McBride.

For the first time in its history, Davidson is to be invaded, Saturday by a rival student body. The Gamecocks
will come en masse, to the Wildcat den. When “fowl meets beast” as it were. More clean rivalry, like the
above promises to be, is what we need in collegiate football circles.

Furman. Coach Laval’s warriors are surely setting a pace all right. Here are two results we can rest our optics
on with more or less interest.
Furman 21, Citadel 6.
Davidson 27, Citadel 13.
Looks like 6 of one and a half-dozen of another.
Furman 17, Wake Forest 0.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 7.

Georgia Tech took the rollers out from under Center to the tune of 24 to 0. Plenty of Uncle Sam’s
mint products changed hands as a consequence, because this was the most important game in this season’s Southern “bill-o-fare.” Trinity
added another last week. This makes three straight for the Methodists who are putting out their first eleven in 20
years. The University of Marylandbeat our run up a total of three baskets, but soon the fighting spirit of the
Seniors tied the score, and only after a strenuous battle did the Juniors lead their rivals by a lone basket
when the half ended. In the second half, the Seniors put up an excellent battle, but the Junior's shooting was
too accurate for their opponents. Doubles and Price were the stars for the Juniors, while Ormond shot most of the
Senior's field goals.

Juniors: Position: Seniors:
Doubles (C) (7) ----- Ormond, A. P. (8) R. F.
Freeman (4) ----- Miley, W. H. F. B.
Cornelson (2) ----- Heizer (2) C
Erwin, L. (2) ----- Johnson R. G.
Price (4) ----- King (C) (1) L. G.

Sophs vs. Fresh.
In the second of the inter-class basketball series, the Soph quintet triumphed over the Fresh by a score of 29-12.
It was a much harder-fought contest than the score would indicate, the Fresh giving their heavier rivals the stubbornest kind
of opposition. During the first half, the scoring was nip and tuck, neither side remaining in the lead more than
a minute or so at a time. Though younger opponents in weight, the teams were fairly evenly matched in playing
ability. The Sophs were not as proficient in passing as they might have been, but were able to cage the
ball much more effectively than were the Fresh. Time and time again, the Fresh had the sphere under their desired
goal but seemed unable to locate the basket with sufficient accuracy. In the second half, however, the Sophs appeared to
be rejuvenated by the entrance into the game of Bostic at forward, Mauze at center, and McLaren at guard, and
practically swept the Fresh off their feet. The score at the end of the first half stood at 11-7, but
during the last semester, the Sophs, in addition to keeping the Fresh to five more points, came close to tripling
their own score. The whole Soph team played better ball and the Fresh were unable to withstand the onslaught. For
the victors, Crawford played the most consistent game, being in almost every play from start to finish. During the last
half, Mauze put up a good game.

Professors three up. Sigmon and Earle defeated White and Sample one up. Sinclair and Robertson played Doubles and Fricker to
a tie. Showing flashes of form like Perry Adair and Bobby Jones, C. Green and Vance emerged victors over the
fourth Salisbury team five up. The course was not in the best of condition and greatly hindered the work of
both sides. Nevertheless, Davidson displayed great skill since her first match. Remember fellows, golf is under the auspices of the
Athletic Association this year and there is a chance for the coveted "D" in playing the game as well as
in any other form of Athletics. So show the spirit and back the team in its inter-collegiate matches which will
follow shortly. Pull the old bag off the wall and take an evening's exercise by making the golf course hum
to the tune of Spaulding Fifties and Baby Dimples. Practice makes perfect and what it takes to make perfection old
Davidson is not to be found lacking.

UNIVERSITY OF S. C. TO PLAY HERE SATURDAY
Gamecocks, After Victory Over Tigers, Now Seek Wildcat Blood.
The University of South Carolina invades Davidson for the weekend. This is the first and only game of the season
to be played at Sprunt Field. All indications are pointing to a hectic struggle. Things are scheduled to start at
3:30 Saturday afternoon. Up to date, the South Carolinians have had a most successful season. They have met some of
the best teams of this section and have certainly shown good progress. Their first game was won from Wofford, 14-0.
The strong University of Ga. ran up several touchdowns on them. Then came the University of N. C. and the
7-0 score indicated how hard the Tar Heels had to play for a victory. The win from Clemson last week
marked their best achievement, however. On this record, they should have the team to support the claims of victory coming
from Columbia. On comparative scores, the result seems to be clothed in doubt. Their good showing against Carolina and the
win from Clemson are evidence of their strength both on the offensive and defense. Davidson had the advantage from the
defeat of the Citadel as Citadel Wood and Arbuckle.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Athletes know our place for the best grade of goods and reasonable prices. We sell and satisfy, and that is
why we grow.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, November 4, 5, and 6
OVERTURE
Acad Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Cace
ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
W. E. WHITTLE & CO.
Novelty Ventriloquists
WILL BRONZER
"He Blotted His Copy Book"
NINE LIBERTY GIRLS
One of Vaudeville’s Most Beautiful Musical Offerings
EDDIE RAYE AND EDITH CAVANAGH
Well Known Stars of Musical Comedy Fame
CHANDON TRIO
Aerialists Supreme
