4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Issue arc: King, A. D.; Mauze, G. W.; Ormand, A. P.; Fraser, H. H.; Sims, J.; Guire, E. H.

Business Manager: T. H. WILSON
Assistant Manager: L. L. McALISTER
Circulation Manager: Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

OFFICIAL REPORTS.

Weather Bureau: The periodical downpour will descend upon Davidson on Saturday night.

Science Department: A flock of rare birds are expected soon to appear on the cupola and the adjacent territory. Flu
has flew.

Health Department: Everything from the fate of the Kaiser to the next President of the United States will be definitely
decided in Shearer Hall.

War Department: Presentation of regimental colors brings up the morale of the army.

While the people of this country are worrying over who shall be the next President, we have some elections of
our own which should command our most careful consideration. March in this college is not the month for inauguration but
it is the month for some of the numerous student elections. The first officer to be chosen this year is
the president of our Y. M. C. A., recognized by all the students as a position most difficult to fill
and most important to be filled correctly. Fortunate have we been in the selection which has been made for the
past few years. Experience therefore should teach us that the right man can be found if the proper judgment be
exercised. What, then, are the qualifications which should guide us? The ideal is a man who possesses the rare combination
of being a deeply consecrated Christian, a capable leader, a convincing speaker, and a congenial companion. Piety, power, popularity, and
push should be his attributes. The question has often been raised as to whether he should be a ministerial student.
Although the fact that a man has given himself to the ministry is a fair indication of his consecration, it
is not compulsory that the Y president should have definitely made this decision. To be a successful religious leader, however,
a man must have a deep religious fervor himself, and unless this is conspicuous he should not be considered. Begin
to think on this question and let your choice be made carefully and prayerfully, having in mind the importance of
the position and the necessity for securing the most capable leader. Elect a man who can carry on the Y.
M. C. A. work as it has been done in the past, who can live as an example for his
fellow-students, and who can safely lead them in their Christian work.

Some colleges center their attention on a weekly publication, others on a more literary paper published monthly or quarterly. There
is a third class which divides its attention between a literary magazine and a weekly newspaper, to which class Davidson
belongs. This year has seen the revival and growth of the Magazine to a place which it has seldom occupied
before. The type of literary work and the regularity of publication has been far superior to that of any recent
year. The old students recognize this fact and appreciate the work of those who can claim responsibility for this change.

As outlined by our professor of English there is a sharp discrimination between the field of the Magazine and that
of The Davidsonian. The former exists for the purpose of developing literary talent, of cultivating any latent power for writing
which might exist among the students. It would be a mistake in his opinion to put into it too much
of current college topics or by inserting too many jokes for the purpose of attracting the attention of the reader.
The student body should be raised to the level where it could appreciate the literary efforts, instead of lowering the
quality of the Magazine to make it more attractive. The opportunities for practice in writing as offered by the Magazine
could prove of invaluable aid to anyone who has entertained ambitions along those lines. The work can be helpfully criticized
either by the professor of English or by the members of the staff. The opinion and judgment of the students
could provide helpful suggestions for future work. The power of writing interestingly and entertainingly is inestimably useful even if it
is not taken up as a regular vocation. For the purpose of stimulating interest in literary work there are several
handsome prizes annually given by various organizations on the hill. The medal given by the Sigma Upsilon is for the
man who has done the best work for the Magazine during the current year. It is given after the last
issue has been published and it is not too late for anyone to compete. The two literary societies also have
fiction contests for which Magazine activities can be used. All these exist for the purpose of encouraging literary work and
should be taken advantage of by the students both from a standpoint of personal gain and from the desire to
render effective service for the Davidson College Magazine.

CONCERNING THE R. O. T. C.

For the third year Davidson has a military course in her curriculum. The first year even under the existing conditions
of a world war it amounted to practically nothing; consisting of three hours of drill a week. The second year
our country prepared to use her utmost resources for the sake of victory, induced all the students in the first
class colleges of America into the S. A. T. C. Here the training was much more intensive—military perfection being the
goal instead of achievements of scholarship. The signing of the armistice ended the war before the S. A. T. C.
was of any material service and its members were soon all discharged. After the Christmas holidays the students of this
college voted to continue a mild form of military training and so the R. O. T. C. was established at
Davidson. Drill was scheduled for an hour a day, three days a week, and the students received a full term's
credit that might be substituted for any regular college ticket. As a matter of fact drill was conducted five days
of the week due to the fact that it was not begun till late in the term. The man detailed
by the government as head of the department of military science and tactics was Col. A. H. Meuller, who has
proven to the satisfaction of practically every man at Davidson that he is in every way qualified to hold this
position. The Davidson College and is in itself a positive proof of this fact. In this the third year of
our military career we have drilled our threeFull hours a week having a complete schedule, including such particulars as all
ceremonies and close order drill, extended order, inspections from rifle to full pack, rifle drill, bayonet training, grenades, setting up
exercises, etc. In addition, two hours each week of class work has been required. This includes work in map reading,
infantry drill regulations, minor tactics, interior guard duty, orders and messages, engineering, and military courtesy. In addition, extra work is
arranged in the afternoons for target practice, physical examinations, and field meets. A student being absent from these duties receives
a class absence and, in addition, whatever his excuse—he is required to make up all time he misses by punishment
tours. For a year's work in this course, the faculty offers one half of a year's credit. This they say
is the best inducement they can afford without lowering the standards of the college. Therefore, it would seem that there
is but one solution for this condition. Is there anyone at Davidson willing to suggest this solution?

More than half the members of our student body remember the life in the S. A. T. C. They remember
the grueling drill and the strict discipline. They remember the disastrous “flu” epidemic and the rigid quarantine enforced at that
time; they remember that last night as in a fever of excitement they waited for morning to come, and for
that hour to arrive when they would receive that much-coveted discharge, and last and best they remember their joyful departure
on the 11:50 train. These and many other things they remember about their army life. Nevertheless, they seem to have
forgotten that other severer and closer discipline that was enforced upon them for failure to keep camp free from litter
and waste. And surely they have forgotten how pretty and attractive the grounds became before that quarantine was lifted.

Junior Speaking is upon us and Volunteer Conference is only two weeks off. We should try to make as good
an appearance as possible at such an occasion as this, when there are so many visitors on the hill. The
college has just finished the long-postponed job of clearing the campus from leaves. Surely with such a start as this
we can keep it clean for a few days. Whenever you start to throw peanut hulls, banana peels, cigarette stumps,
etc., on the campus just think of the following rhyme and act accordingly:

Sixty anxious Juniors looking for their girls and friends,
The opinion formed by guests of the speaking, depends
On whether we remember the trash can,
And try to keep the campus “spic and span.”

It seemed that when Rastus and Sam died they took different routes, so when the latter got to heaven he
called Rastus on the telephone. “Rastus,” he said, “how yo’ like it down thar?”
“Oh, boy! Dis am some place,” replied Rastus. “All we has ter do is ter wear a red suit wid
horns, an ebery now and den shovel some coal on de fire. We don’t work no more dan two hours
out of de twenty-four down here, but tell me, Sam, how it is wid you up yonder?”
“Mah, goodness! We has ter get up at fo’ o'clock in de mornin’ and gathah in de stahs; den we
has ter haul in de moon and hang out de sun. Den we has ter roll de clouds aroun’ all
day long.”
“But, Sam, how comes it yo’ has ter work so hard?”
“Well, to tell de truf, Rastus, we’s kin’ o’ short o’ help up here.” —Ex.

“When I told her I killed a German with one hand, she grabbed it and kissed it all over.”
“You're an idiot,” said his pal. “Why didn’t you tell her you bit the Hun to death?” —Ex.

At least a few of us have preference to the way in which we rid ourselves of R. O. T.
C. Our one thought is that it must go. You have indeed quite a nice plea on patriotic grounds, but
is it not possible that this is mistaken ardor on your part? The Faculty gives us only one term's credit
for a whole year's work in this subject. If they considered R. O. T. C. service our patriotic duty would
they not sanction it with at least a full credit? Should we not in every way try to follow the
lead of the Faculty? If they accept military training only half-heartedly should we not conform? Your next argument seems to
be that we should drill because we are so well equipped. It is true that we are well equipped, but
are we children to spend our time playing soldier because of the “cute little compass,” or “Oh, see my nice
new whistle,” or “Do come look at my really truly army rifle.” Just because you are ignorant do you refuse
to attend school or study? If your appendix should burst would you refuse an operation? Is it any better reasoning
to say: Why not take an interest in it and make the most of the situation, and not make the
most strenuous effort to remove the “situation.”

Drill would not be so unbearable if it occupied only the prescribed amount of time, but this is not the
case, we have begun to have our drill period transferred to the afternoon where it is terminated only by the
supper bell. The Davidson students brought R. O. T. C. here by their own vote. Can we not send it
away in the same manner? It is at least worth a trial.

CONSIDERATION.
Should a Davidson man venture to criticize the Faculty, he is immediately overwhelmed by multitudinous disquisitions anent the benevolent generosity
of said Faculty. However, hearken to a little (Continued on page 5)

WDC Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The WDC is
a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band and
bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order—that’s what we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer. Wm. DEMUTH & CO.,
New York. WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.

Yours very truly,
Bloomin’ Idiot.
