Fin | | mi im: ore re ci, an \, didehii WN

Mr. and Mrs. Geo. C. Dury, of Nashville, Tenn., announce the engagement of their daughter Katharine Norvell, to Mr. Jas.
T. Maddrey, ex-'22, of Winston-Salem, N.C., the wedding to take place in November.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N.C.

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1920.

DR. W. W. MOORE HELD IN HIGH ESTEEM THROUGHOUT SOUTHERN PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. Davidson College Proud to Own DOCTOR MOORE AS
SON.

Rev. Walter William Moore, D.D., LL.D., for the past 16 years president of Union Theological Seminary, was born in Charlotte,
N.C., June 14, 1857. He graduated from Davidson College with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1878, and took
his theological course at Union Seminary in the three years following, graduating there in 1881. The degree of Doctor of
Divinity was conferred in 1885 by Central University of Kentucky, and the degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred in
1892 by Davidson College. On August 30, 1881 he was ordained to the Presbyterian ministry, and during that year and
the year following was evangelist in western North Carolina. Then followed a pastorate at Millersburg, Ky., in 1882-83.

Dr. Moore’s work in teaching at Union Seminary has shown a steady advance. He was an assistant instructor there in
1883-84; then adjunct Professor of Hebrew 1884-86; associate Professor of Hebrew and Old Testament 1885-90; Professor of Hebrew and Old
Testament effective with 1889. In 1904 he was elected President of the Seminary, which position he still occupies. Dr. Moore
has been the recipient of practically all the honors within the gift of the Southern Presbyterian Church. Through a period
dating from his school days to the present, he has been greatly beloved and esteemed. Handsome, richly endowed with gifts
of heart and personality, he has had the friendship of all who have come within the range of his wonderful
magnetism. So great were his intellectual accomplishments and his oratorical powers that he was chosen in his Sophomore year to
represent his literary society in the commencement celebration, and from that day onward whenever there was platform work to be
done by one qualified by grace of manner, eloquence of tongue, and beauty of rhetoric Dr. Moore has been steadily
put forward by his friends as one admirably equipped for such service. The highest gift within the power of the
Church, that of Moderator of the General Assembly, was his in 1908.

Dr. Moore has found time from his teaching and administrative duties to write several books, among which may be mentioned,
“A Year In Europe,” published in 1904; “The Indispensable Book,” in 1910, and “Appreciations and Historical”Addresses,” in 1914. Davidson College
is glad to honor this noble son for his high worth and his usefulness, and as an exponent of the
principles for which Davidson stands. We are glad that intellect and possessed of a winning - In his college days
such - we can have him next spring for the fourth series in the Otts Lectureship. We will be honored,
in turn, by the visit of this distinguished man.

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

William T. Dunlap, Jr. '19, has entered the Boston School of Technology for a two years’ course. W. F. Hall,
'20, is professor of mathematics at Mitchell College, Statesville, N.C. R. S. McClure, '20, was a campus visitor last week.
Mr. McClure supplied the church at Rockingham, N.C., during the summer and was en route to Union Seminary to continue
his studies. J. P. Williams, '16, is now Superintendent of the Montreat Normal School, having resigned the managership of the
University of New Mexico. Mr. Williams spent last Wednesday at Davidson and joined the pilgrimage to Hopewell Church in the
afternoon. John M. Jamison, '20, has gone to Philadelphia to study finance. With him are Pat Gilchrist, ex-'22, and W.
G. McKeldin, ex-'22. “Johnnie” and “Pat” are rooming together. H. M. Oates, ex-'15, has removed from Hendersonville to Charlotte, where
he will practice law. James A. Abernathy, ex-'18, was married August 25, to Miss Edna B. Harris, of Rutherfordton, N.C.
Their home will be at Lincolnton, N.C.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR. (Continued from page 6)

On Sunday afternoon at 2:30, at the church, a Junior society will be formed, composed of the boys and girls
in town between the ages of seven and twelve. The parents of boys and girls between these ages are urged
to send them on Sunday. Miss Margaret Adams and other competent leaders will be in charge of this Junior society.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Wait For FALL and WINTER SPORTS CATALOG No. 28
This CATALOG for ATHLETIC OUTFITTERS
The Macamac Company Agents

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry
OLDEST LARGEST BEST
The Macamac Company, Agency

POWER HOUSE
If You Make the Team
This is where you get your Uniforms, Shoes, Stockings, Nose Guards, and all Football Equipment. We can fit the entire
team.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Company
18 East Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N.C.

This space reserved for The W. P. Mertens Co.
Charlottesville, Va.
