(It will be the plan of this department to run a short sketch of a prominent alumnus of the college each week throughout the year in order that the general public may see some sidelights on prominent Davidson alumni.)

Sketch No. 2. GEN. S. D. RAMSEUR.

Interesting Facts Concerning Davidson’s Highest Commissioned Officer.

Stephenson Dodson Ramseur, the second child of Jacob A. and Lucy M. Ramseur, was born at Lincolnton, the 31st day of May, 1837. His parents were members of the Presbyterian Church and gave him the best advantages of social and intellectual improvement, without his being exposed to the “devices and snares of the outer world.” His mother was a woman beautiful and attractive and of great force of character.

He received his preparatory training in Lincolnton and Milton. Thence he matriculated at Davidson College in 1853. He entered the Freshman class and passed 18 months at this institution. He had an ardent longing for a military career, and though disappointed in his first efforts to secure an appointment to West Point, he was not downcast. Through the aid of Gen. D. H. Hill, then a professor at Davidson College, his second application was successful. So he remained at Davidson until the end of his Sophomore year, and entered West Point in 1855.

Soon after graduation he was commissioned second lieutenant in the Infantry. In less than a year the Civil War had begun, Ramseur had tendered his sword to the government of the Confederacy, then at Montgomery. His first charge was to form a battery of artillery at Raleigh, N. C. After forming, equipping, and training this unit, he proceeded to Smithfield, Va., in the summer of 1861. After fighting in this vicinity against McClellan, he was ordered to Yorktown. Here he was promoted to the rank of major. Soon afterward he was elected colonel of the Forty-ninth Regiment of Infantry, and had to leave his old battery. He was wounded shortly in “the seven days’ fight,” but refused to leave the field. While wounded he was made brigadier-general and given a brigade in the army of Northern Virginia. While in command of this unit he made his famous charge at Chancellorsville. But his greatest service was rendered at the great battle of Gettysburg, where time after time he led his thin lines into that shower of shell. General Lee said of the whole affair: “But without unjust discrimination, we may say that Gordon, Rodes, and Ramseur were the heroes of this bloody fray.”

At Winchester and again at Fisher’s Mill his heroism was shown. He had now been promoted to major-general. While at Mill Creek with a scanty force, holding back Sheridan’s vast host, he was fatally wounded and then captured. General Early said of the affair: “He met the death of a hero, and with his fall, the last hope of saving the day was lost. He was a soldier of whom his State has reason to be proud; he was brave, chivalrous and capable.” Ramseur’s last message was to his wife: “I die a Christian, and hope to meet her in heaven.” The grave of them both is now a monument on the one side of which is engraved the Confederate flag and names of principal battles in which he fought; on the other the date of his birth and of his death, with this appropriate inscription: “A Good Soldier of Jesus Christ.”

WITH THE ALUMNI.

Presbyterian University at Clarksville, Tenn. David Y. Hudson, '17, who is attending Johns Hopkins University, has been doing special work with one of the Hopkins professors at the University of Michigan, and it is reported that he brought under observation the second specimen ever seen of a microbe discovered by the professor in question.

J. H. Carter, '09, Mt. Airy, N.C. is editor and owner of the Renfro Record, a weekly newspaper, recently launched.

Porter Paisley, ex-’11, of Greensboro, N. C., and a brother of John C. Paisley, '17, spent the weekend at Davidson. He was accompanied by Miss Hendrix, of Greensboro.

Avery Ted Cashion, ’17, was married on July 28 to Miss Marion Brison, of Gastonia, N.C.

Recent announcement was received from Mr. and Mrs. Charles Cope Morgan, of the arrival of Charles Cope, Jr. on August 12. Mr. Morgan was a member of the class of '13.

Summer changes of work among the ministerial alumni: Rev. W. W. Guerrant, ex-'10, from Eliasville,Ky., to Manhattan, Kas. Rev. H. H. No. McDiarmid, ’11, from Rocky Mount, N. C., to Kinston; J. E. Cousar, Jr., '14, Bishopville, S.C., sailed on August 21 for Japan, where he will take up his work as a missionary. Last year he was Hoge Fellow at Union Theological Seminary. J. K. Hobson, ’17, who graduated at Union Seminary last May, expects to sail with his bride, sometime this month for Africa. Mr. Hobson was married on June 25 to Miss Rena Williams, of Texas. Mr. and Mrs. Hobson expect to make the foreign field in Africa their life work. “Tiny” Graham, former Davidson student and football star, was up from Charlotte last Saturday to witness the scrimmage between the Scrubs and Varsity. He offered some suggestions to the players that were very valuable. Dr. H. B. Cartledge, ‘11, spent a short time on the “Hill” last week. Dr. Cartledge is now associate professor of chemistry at Hopkins. “Smith” Murphy and “Bud” Fraleigh came in for a few days to visit friends on their way to Princeton, where they will register for academic work this year. John D. (no, not Rockefeller) but Wiley, ’20, was on the campus for a few days this week. John D. expects to enter the medical college at Hopkins next week. “Floss” White, ex-’19, visited the campus last week. White is in business at Chester, S. C. Rev. J. J. Murray, '09, is chairman of the Home Mission work of Wilmington Presbytery, and is located at Wilmington, N. C. Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., '06, of Mobile, Ala., has become a member of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary. S. C. Farrior, '13, is doing graduate work at Teachers College, New York, as further preparation for his teaching in China. Mrs. Farrior is with him for the winter. Prof. C. F. Arrowood, '09, has accepted the professorship of Education and Bible at Southwestern. Rev. J. R. McGregor, ’14, from Atlanta, to Cedartown, Ga. Rev. T. A. Beckett, '12, from Glen Springs to N. Charleston, S. C. Rev. L. R. Scott, ‘08, from Montgomery, Ala., to Valdosta, Ga. Rev. R. C. Wilson, Jr., '10, from Sparta, Ga., to McConnellsville, Ga. Rev. R. C. Long, '13, from Richmond, W. Va., to Gastonia, N. C. Rev. C. M. Gibbs, ‘15, to Duke, N. C. Rev. T. H. Daffin, '09, from Deerfield to Kernston, Va. Rev. R. L. McKinnon, '14, from Lewisburg to Charleston, W. Va. Rev. E. M. Monroe, Sr., ’73, from Gurdon, Ark., to Longview, Tex.

STUDENTS ENJOYED WALLACE REID IN “EXCUSE MY DUST.”

“Excuse our dust” if we raise too much sand in describing the thrills Wallace Reid as Toodles Walden, a daredevil racing fiend, furnished the students of Davidson College Saturday night. Wallace is under pledge to his wife to refrain from speeding but circumstances alter cases and Fate ruled that he should drive in the annual automobile race from Los Angeles to San Francisco. Wallace hits a fast pace throughout and ends with a smash-up that was planned by a rival concern. To make use of a much overworked but expressive twentieth-century phrase, “Wally” certainly shakes a wicked steering gear. Not the least interesting and entertaining part of the night’s performance was the two-piece orchestra comprising a piano and drum and manned respectively by Messrs. Houston, White, and Fresh Rhames. When it comes to extracting a little jazz from aforesaid instruments this duo is right on hand and prepared to deliver the goods. In fact, such was the syncopated tunes rendered that several students are said to have contracted St. Vitus’s dance but it is hoped that it will not assume epidemic form. To sum up the whole affair in a nutshell, the evening’s entertainment was highly successful; others equally so are looked forward to with much pleasure by all.

THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR BIERMANS ENGRAVING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

This space reserved for The W. P. Mertens Co. Charlottesville, Va.

PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES, and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS

JAN GARBER E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Owner and Director Business Manager
Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”

Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more---no limit. Full death benefits in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.

Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company
1016-18 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.
Openings for Live men as agents