THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

STUDENT BODY DIRECTORY.

ANNUAL
C. H. Long, Editor-in-Chief.
C. M. McCaskill, Business Manager.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
B. W. Romefelt, President

DAVIDSONIAN
J. E. Cassell, Editor-in-Chief.
A. G. Oltman, Business Manager.

BASEBALL
J. R. Boulware, Manager.
W. H. Miley, Captain.

BASKETBALL
G. E. Miley, Manager.
L. B. Schenck, Captain.

DEBATING COUNCIL
J. C. McCaskill, Chairman.

EUMENEAN LITERARY SOCIETY
J. C. McCaskill, President.

FOOTBALL
J. C. McCaskill, Manager.
L. O. Hammett, Captain.

JUNIOR CLASS
T. M. Lowry, President.

MAGAZINE
W. P. Cummings, Editor-in-Chief.
A. M. Mitchell, Business Manager.

MINISTERIAL BAND
F. V. Long, President.

PHILANTHROPIC LITERARY SOCIETY
C. G. Long, President.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. M. Mitchell, President.

STUDENT BODY
A. L. Currie, President.

SENIOR CLASS
C. M. McCaskill, President.

SOPHOMORE CLASS
N. W. Shepard, President.

VOLUNTEER BAND
D. W. Roberts, President.

Y. M. C. A.
L. B. Schenck, President.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Fraternity and Watch Jewelers
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.
WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

L. A. ELLIOTT
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
See me for your feeds

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

Chautauqua to Entertain Davidson’s Citizens for First Time
Large Tent to Accommodate Crowd—Pleasing Program Promised

Davidson is growing bigger and better, for the Radcliffe Chautauqua is coming. It brings with it recreation, inspiration and education.
Buy your season ticket early and be prepared. The price is $2.00 for adults and $1.00 for children. The performances
will be held in a large, comfortable tent, in the grove in front of the Post Office, on the 22nd,
23rd, and 24th of this month. The afternoon performances at 3:00 o’clock and the evening performances at 7:30 o’clock.

A musical of rich quality and of great variety will be rendered by both native and foreign musicians. On the
program will appear Lengo’s Orchestral Quartette, the Oakley Concert Trio, and the Kraft Concert Company. Lecturers of prominence will appear
twice daily.

A group of representative citizens of Davidson have brought this Chautauqua to Davidson without profit to themselves, for all proceeds
go to a worthy local charity. Those who have made the Chautauqua possible for Davidson are as follows:

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, chairman.
W. H. Thompson, treasurer.
J. Roy Caldwell, secretary.
Dr. J. W. MacConnell, chairman advertising committee.
M. H. Goodrum, chairman tent and ground committee; H. P. Helper, assistant.
J. R. Withers, chairman seating committee; W. E. Potts, assistant.
F. L. Jackson, chairman lighting committee and to secure a piano.
T. E. Lothery, chairman ticket committee.
A. G. Oltman, ticket committee.
Lester Hannah and Hugh Hovis, mill division ticket committee.
W. B. Barnett, L. A. Elliott, M. H. Goodrum, Dr. J. J. Withers, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton, W.
C. Thompson, Jesse McConnell, C. S. Goodrum, C. E. Fidler, country division.
Mrs. P. A. Stough, chairman Cornelius committee, with authority to select a sub-committee to help her.
Miss Lizzie Young, ticket committee for section of town north of Scofield Connor.
Mrs. T. E. Lothery and Rev. Mr. Woolsy, ticket committee for section of town from Carter’s Garage on the east
side of South Main street.
Mrs. L. R. Brady, ticket committee for section of town from Carter’s Garage on the west side of South Main
street.
Dr. C. M. Richards, ticket committee for Concord street section.

Each of the parties named on the town divisional committee will select others to help them as they see fit.

Prof. W. W. Wood, J. M. Blue, Parks Brown, committee on hospitality.
Mrs. L. E. Johnston, Mrs. W. R. Grey, with Miss Carraway, committee for the children’s hour.

The price of admission for the afternoon performance of the opening day will be 50 cents, and for the night
performance will be 75 cents. The admission for each of the other performances after the first day will be 50
cents. The hour for the afternoon performance each day will be 3 o'clock.

FRESH PARADE A FAILURE.

On the night of September 8, the Annual Fresh parade was started, with about 40 very timid and nervous members
of class ’24 as participants. Beginning at the front of Watts, the parade wended its way as far as the
well, where some of the student body officers reminded those who were the instigators, that Davidson would tolerate no formal
hazing. This being the case, the frightened fresh were released and allowed to return to their respective abodes. Thus ended
the fresh parade.

GOLD CHEVRONS FOR SERVICE ABROAD

Lex Kluttz, '15, of Chester Back From Overseas Only to Leave Soon for Syria.

If Lex Kluttz of Chester is not the only veteran in South Carolina entitled to wear five gold chevrons for
service overseas, he is certainly one of a chosen few. Mr. Kluttz returned only recently after 31 months with the
American army in Europe, and now, after a short stay, he goes to Beirut, Syria, where he will be an
instructor in a Christian college.

Mr. Kluttz was in Columbia recently for the first time since “before the war,” and renewed many old acquaintances. His
special business was to have a conference on Christian Endeavor work with Wyatt Taylor, president of the state union, but
he also found time to see some of his warm friends in the capital city.

It is only by chance that Mr. Kluttz is not at present in Antwerp with the American Olympic team, for
he was in the army finals at St. Louis for the 440 and the 100, but after a trip across
the Atlantic on a slow boat and a hard rail trip to Missouri, he was not in the finest condition
for the games. While he should have been getting into the finest shape, he was traveling, and thus was handicapped
in the events. His friends, however, expect to see him qualify in the 1924 games.

Mr. Kluttz, who is a graduate of Davidson College, and who made a fine athletic record at that institution, went
across soon after the United States entered the war, and he was fortunate in seeing exceedingly interesting service. After the
armistice, he was made assistant to occupation, and as such got an opportunity for much travel. He was given a
school appointment to Scotland, where he spent several months in a great university. After this, he was in Coblenz with
the chaplain, and in his work traveled Poland.and Czecho-Slovakia. This morning, where he will be until he was discharged from
the army about a month ago, being at the time a sergeant.

WILDCATS BEGIN PRACTICE
(Continued from page 1)

tackles, the ends, and unless Homewood returns, Lawrence will probably cover the other. Floyd will be the only veteran guard
back. Old Johnnie Johnson, former crack Davidson back, is up at Tech now and will no doubt be of use
to Coach “Bill” before the season is over. N. C. State vs. Davidson at Riddick Field, Raleigh, N. C. These
two rivals open hostilities on September 25, and being the opening game for both schools, much enthusiasm will be displayed.
Go get ‘em Wildcats.

COACH GREY WELCOMED BACK TO THE CAMPUS
(Continued from page 1)

years, being honored his last year with an All-American selection. In addition to his football, he was a track star,
winning his D three times and setting records for the shot put and discus events. Not satisfied with the knowledge
and cunning he had gained by three years’ Varsity ball, he went to Chicago and Wisconsin Universities and studied the
art and science of football and basketball under the great masters of the game, and now he is back to
give his alma mater the benefit of what he has gained. That he is more than welcome and that he
will have the support of the whole school has been shown by the way the men have turned out for
football and by the way the students received him and accorded him their support Monday night at the Fresh reception.

the senior chaplain of the army of senior in France, England, Ireland, Wales, Scotland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland.
Mr. Kluttz will return to Chester. He leaves for his new work with the Syria Christian College at Beirut. “Cus”
Ripple will take care of the R.O.T.C. News.

Capt. Hearn. Capt. Thomas G. Hearn, head and instructor of the military department at Davidson College this year, is an
officer in every way fitted for his position. He both has the military experience to form here a capable and
efficient R.O.T.C. unit, and is a Southerner of the type to understand Southern boys. One of his classmates at West
Point, in speaking of him, said: “You will be fortunate if you get Hearn. He was the best man in
our class.” Capt. Hearn was born in Tuskegee, Ala., twenty-nine years ago, attended Auburn College, and then entered West Point
with the class of 1915. Here he had an excellent record, and in his academic work and general reputation stood
high with both instructors and cadets. Since the completion of his course at West Point, he has also graduated at
the School of Arms, Fort Sill, Okla., and the Army Machine Gun School at Tangus. Before the World War, he
served with an infantry regiment and took part in the Pershing Expedition into Mexico in 1916. Later he commanded a
machine gun battalion in France with the temporary rank of major, serving in a sector in the Vosges Mountains and
taking part in the Argonne offensive. Capt. Hearn has not yet located a suitable home at Davidson, and Mrs. Hearn
on that account will not be here as soon as was first planned. However, it is safe to predict that
Capt. and Mrs. Hearn will be liked and admired by all of us.

SERGEANT RYAN.
Sergeant Julien B. Ryan entered the service in 1908. During that time he went through the various grades and attained
the rank of sergeant-major. He was then assigned to the recruiting service for a year and in 1909 joined the
15th cavalry where he was soon promoted to 1st sergeant. In 1917, he was commissioned in the Philippine Islands and
later was transferred to the 9th cavalry where he rose to the rank of captain. He applied for a discharge
and in August 1919 left the army, but soon reenlisted as sergeant of the R.O.T.C. He was transferred to Massachusetts
Agricultural College in March 1920. During the past summer, he served at a camp at Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont. He
was assigned to Davidson College on August 18, 1920. Sergeant Ryan will have charge of the classroom work for the
freshmen.

SERGEANT CHAMP.
Sergeant Clyde W. Champ enlisted in the infantry in August 1917 and was very shortly sent overseas where he saw
active service for two years in the 5th division. He returned to this country in January 1919 and was discharged
February 16, 1920. On the following day, he reenlisted as a private in the field artillery and was transferred to
Camp Bragg where he was promoted to the grade of regimental supply sergeant. He was assigned to Davidson College for
R.O.T.C. duty and reported here on July 7, 1920. Sergeant Champ will have charge of all the supply work connected
with this unit. Davidson is glad to have these men here and from their past records, it is certain that
they will prove valuable additions to the college as well as to the battalion.

INSIDE DOPE ON ADVANCED COURSES.
The R.O.T.C. The primary object of the Reserve Officer's Training Corps is to provide systematic military training at civil institutions
for the purpose of qualifying selected students of such institutions for reserve officers of the military forces of the United
States. There has been established a New Central Course which comprises the third and fourth years in college with a
camp of not more than six weeks usually between the third and fourth years, which is compulsory for all men
taking the Advanced Course. The Basic Course is compulsory for (Continued on page 10)
