Christian DWIGHT CHALMERS GIVES PRACTICAL TALK

Our Relation to God Discussed by Former “Y” President.

Dwight M. Chalmers, '20, of Charlotte gave the student body an inspiring talk on “Union with God” at the “Y"
service Sunday evening. In his talk, he discussed the reason for the fact that we are not nearer to our
God than we are, and how we may develop a close relationship with Him.

In the first place, we should seek this close communion with God just as we would seek intimate friendship with
our fellow man. We should come into contact with Him through prayer often, and should do all that we can
to please Him and to carry out His will. God has given us the Bible as our guide, and allows
us to talk with Him by means of prayer, and we should take advantage of these great privileges to the
fullest extent. We cannot expect to enjoy this spirit of true fellowship with God if we continually avoid Him any
more than we can expect to have real friends among the men whose company we shun.

Then he showed that one of the many reasons why some of us fail to attain to this relationship with
God is that we have failed to do His will. We have wrong ideas of what we ought and ought
not to do. Questionable pictures on our walls, betting on the various games, and similar evils all tend to destroy
the highest ideals of the Christian life that we have within us, and should be scrupulously eliminated. A second cause
of failure is that some do not want this friendship enough to become thoroughly clean, to cut loose from all
evil and do His will entirely. God is found only of them that seek Him with the whole heart.

This state of close communion with God once secured, though, is worth far more to us in every way than
the temporal worldly pleasures with which we must part. The pride and joy that come from working with and for
God is a source of constant inspiration, and the confidence that He, with all His power, is backing one is
a never-failing source of strength. Since to know God is life eternal, it is our privilege and our religious duty
to put off the old habits, the old besetting sins, and to strive continually to do His will and to
live in personal relation with Him.

DR. RICHARDS SPEAKS ON “CHRIST, OUR CHAMPION”

“What the world needs today,” says Dr. Richards, “is a representative who is courageous and has both skill and power.”
Such a one is found only in Jesus Christ. His splendid courage and absolute fearlessness appeal strongly to all who
hear of Him.

The speaker chose his text from the first verse of the third chapter of Hebrews. He pointed out that the
main requisite of our champions must be courage. Christ, poor, despised, unknown, went into the temple and drove out the
money changers, striking some with whips. He went about preaching publicly doctrines contrary to those of the rulers of the
people fearlessly, telling them of their sins. He died on the cross, giving Himself to redeem us from the penalty
of our sin. Wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquity, slain for our peace.

We look back through the Bible and find men of towering spiritual stature—Noah, Abraham, David—and after centuries came Christ presenting
Himself as the champion of the human race against Satan. Satan was never able to score a single point against
Him. His absolute courage resulted in complete victory.

Dr. Richards closed his sermon by saying that Christ is our representative before the Father. He is God’s Son and
has power of intercession for us. If we want to see the Father, Christ can take us to Him. If
anyone wishes to take Christ as his champion, he should come into the fellowship of those who have already chosen
Him as their representative and champion.

INTERESTING RALLY DAY HELD AT MILL CHAPEL

Other Sunday Schools Show Good Attendances.

The Rally Day exercises of the Mill Chapel last Sunday evening held theAttention of more than 200 parents and children
for over an hour. At 6:30 last Sunday night, the annual Rally Day exercises began. Every class had a part
in the program, each class having a program of its own which was composed of memory work, songs, and short
talks. The most impressive part of the whole program was not the faultless memory work of the older classes nor
the beautiful pictures, but little Katherine's part. The little lady marched with the older girls of Miss Simmons’ class to
the front of the chapel, and as they turned to face those in the chapel, she took her place in
front of the class. As the music stopped, those who were there heard a faint baby lisping, and then in
a voice which could be heard in the farthest corner of the hall, she said, “Jesus said, ‘Follow me.’” After
each class had rendered its part, the lights were turned off, and Mr. Jackson made an illustrated lecture on the
“Life of Christ.” The chapel was attractively decorated by Ed. Cunningham's class, and on the rear wall was a large
sign welcoming everyone to the Rally Day exercises. With few exceptions, the largest crowd that the chapel has ever held
was out, and everyone, both young and old, seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed the program. The attendance of the other
Sunday Schools was as follows: Shearer, 71 pupils, 7 teachers. Oak Grove, 21 pupils, 8 teachers. Caldwell, 55 pupils, 7
teachers. Brawley, no report. Cornelius, no report.

COLLEGE MINSTREL SHOW NOW SEEMS ASSURED
Professor Erwin Consents to Act as Director for Student Performance.

“Davidson is going to have a minstrel show this year,” Bobbie Long announced this in chapel last week. Now that
the annual occasion of Senior Speaking has been done away with, something had to take its place, for the social
side of that event cannot be abolished. A minstrel show, to be given by the Senior class, was finally decided
upon, and it will “fit the occasion” much better than the speaking, for even the Seniors all agree on that
point. The details have not been fully completed yet. C. H. Long will be interlocutor, Houston White will have charge
of the music, A. L. Wilson and D. L. Mahood will look after the sketch which will probably come in
the second act. Professor Erwin will be director and supervisor, as he has had experience in this kind of work.
About 20 men will take part in the show, with six end men. The show will be held on Saturday,
November 27, at 7:30 p.m., so as to give plenty of time for the fraternity reception afterwards. A large crowd
is expected, and reserved seat tickets will be on sale in the near future. There is plenty of talent here
for a good minstrel show, and with Professor Erwin’s help and the backing of every student, a good minstrel can
be put on which will be a credit to the college.

There is a great possibility of the addition of an eleventh grade to the High School as the State has
made an appropriation for it; the only difficulty is locating a teacher. There are 220 students enrolled in the Graded
and High School, a considerable increase over former years.

It was all a lie—Fresh Minter didn’t really get that letter we published last week. He really doesn't go with
that kind of girl, so you can write him again, Margaret, if you care to—he’s O. K.

LIFE INSURANCE-- A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE
and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE
High Class Moving Pictures
Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano
Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Repairing, Moving, Tuning.
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
ESTABLISHED 1842
M. D. MANNING, Manager
210 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
of Charlotte, N. C.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,600,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”
Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or
more---no limit. Full death benefit in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.
G. W. PATTERSON, Gen’l Agt.
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company
1016-18 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.
Openings for Live men as agents

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete.
Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice
is to take a $10,000 Policy. How much have you got?
W. J. RODDY
J. P. QUARLES, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.
