8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920. This gives the delegation present at Davidson at the recent North Carolina Volunteer Conference. The meeting was a success in every sense of the word, and the only regret of the student body is that their stay was so short. A hearty invitation is extended for them to meet with us again at an early date.

COURT OPENS SESSION.

TRIED any person present was her true POWER of SPIRITUALISM. For optimism, we have to hand it to the sports writer of the Concord Tribune who informs us: “The first half ended with the score 12-12 in favor of the home team.” The mysterious Alice took the stand.

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Alice affirmed that no one took her out of the car and that Son Phifer was at the wheel.

Turlington: “Have you any sweetheart in Davidson?”

Alice: “No.”

Turlington: “Did you dance?”

Alice: “Naw sah.”

Turlington: “Then you must have been a wallflower.”

Alice: “I don't know”—(and ducking her head coyly she blushed a crimson red).

At this juncture, C. Gillispie, hearing his name called, promptly replied upon standing, “This is me.”

Two Exciting Cases on First Day's Docket—Room in Rear of Tobe Johnson’s Scene of Spirited Action.

The spring session of superior court of Davidson, N. C., was ushered in on the balmy afternoon of last Monday by the arrival of a chief of police in full regalia and five Ford loads of Mooresville attendants. Small groups collected in front of the stately edifice and in hushed and smothered tones discussed the cases of the first day. The first to arrive in the courtroom were the representatives of the Davidsonian, who took their seats in the balcony. Justice of peace was then followed into the room by those appearing on the first day’s docket. The court was called to order and the case read thus: That Son Phifer, Son Sharpe, Dan Sharpe, Roy Cooper alias Slim, C. Gillespie, did unlawfully, willfully, and feloniously create a disturbance in the town of Davidson by drinking, cussing, and disorderly conduct. The witnesses of the state were then sworn in, being Sam Harris, Clarke Johnson, Murph Withers, Charles Evans, Kenneth McCorkle alias Bunny, Bell Johnson, and Alice. Justice of Peace Charles Hamilton then called Sam Harris, first witness for the state, to relate what he knew. Briefly, his evidence was thus: “On Saturday night, March 6, I was giving an entertainment. There were present a Mooresville crowd, and until 12:15 nothing happened. I told the Mooresville crowd beforehand that they need not come. The first thing I knowed there wuz a fight in de yard and dey all came up on de front porch. I says, ‘Boys, there’s no use in fussin’. I says git outer my yard, and going from one to the other, they got on my dark side, and I saw a rough house was goin’ ter be.”

Lawyer Z. V. Turlington, for the defendants, cross-examined the witness thus:

Turlington: “Were they drinking?”

Harris: “They’se under the influence of sumptin.”

Turlington: “This was a dance, and you charged 10 cents, which is against the law. Now, Harris, the fact of the matter is, a woman and not wine, was the ‘fluence.”

Parks Johnson next sworn in. (His evidence of no consequence).

Charlie Evans took the stand next.

Charlie: “I wuz overtaken on de way to Cornelius and ‘bout 25 got outer de car. Dey looked like dey wuz goin after me, and ‘bout dat time I begun to disappear.”

Turlington: “Weren't you drunk?”

Evans: “Naw sah, my eyes weren't eclipsed dat night.”

Murph Withers takes stand and corroborated the statement of Evans. Kenneth McCorkle told briefly how the hall was packed and he lost his hat, which caused the commotion. Upon asking Slim, of Mooresville, to look in the car for his hat, he was greeted with an oath. To settle a question as to whether he jerked a woman out of the car, Bell Johnson was called to the stand. Bell Johnson stated that she left the car of her own free will, and upon being questioned denied that anyone jerked her out.

This was against LeRoy Cooper and Son Phifer, for the disorderly conduct in case 1, and against LeRoy Cooper for carrying a concealed weapon.

LeRoy Cooper: “Aint never had a pistol in my life and don’t even own one.”

Son Phifer: “Didn' nary a one of us have a pistol—a very few of us even had pocket knives.”

Parks Johnson: “Yes, sir, he flustered a gun at us and it looked like blue steel.”

Now Davidson’s class in spiritualism is interesting the whole student body with tales told the morning after their nightly seances. Indeed, it is remarkable to hear of a table knocking on the floor when four legs are resting on it. But you ain’t heard nothing yet! For A, 2 for B, 3 for C, etc.—words, sentences, yea prophecies and unknown facts are made known! Honest, it’s wonderful. Why, the bluesteel to me.” (Imagine a blue steel pistol being distinguished on a dark night, if you can). Prat had six cents in his pocket. On the first night, Medium Vance, in opening the seance, asked if there were any spirits present that they kindly raise the table on two legs. Fred Thompson affirms that the violence of the response (from the spirits) nearly turned the table over. After this, the spirit gave his name as Jo Jo, and said that he was a good spirit. Later in the evening, the class was exasperated by one Otto, a spirit claiming to be of the tribe of Beelzebub. His perversity in answering questions called forth a bold volley of vituperative language from the class, and he was advised to “go home.” A feminine spirit has been introduced to Davidson's Spiritualism Class, but unlike mortal women, she will not talk much. Her name is Isabel. Even Sir Oliver must confess that these are undeniable manifestations of Spirits!

It is impossible to give you an idea of the impressiveness of a seance. They are held in a room where only the red glare from a stove and glowing cigarettes here and there pierce the darkness. Absolute silence reigns, save when one of the mediums addresses a spirit and the table, whereon rest the hands of seven men, begins to creak and scrape, and finally, to tap out messages. Sir Oliver would marvel at the strength, clearness, and accuracy of the spirits’ talk here at Davidson. The hand of this eminent spiritualist would be heartily extended to every member of our Spiritualist Class, congratulating them upon their successful undertaking and their strong faith with which they embrace the greatest discovery of the age. But I doubt if Sir Oliver could stand one of our class’s seances. If he saw the feats performed by that table in 41 Chambers, his hair would stand on end; and, a nervous wreck, he would leave Otto, Jo Jo, Isabel, and all other Davidson spirits to our grave sons, contenting himself to commune with the less fierce ghosts of Bloody Mary, Oliver Cromwell, and Queen Elizabeth in “merrie England!”

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY

On Wednesday and Thursday, two unknown quantities will meet on the Sprunt field to battle, and although the strength of the Oak Ridge team is unknown, we feel confident of overcoming the visitors. No reports from the enemy’s camp have reached Davidson as yet, but it has been learned that they have a strong team, numbering among its players some men who played on that team two years ago, which was only scored on four times during the whole season. Oak Ridge has always had a strong team which has always given Davidson good games, and their sportsmanship has been above reproach.

Mrs. Lingle’s mother, Mrs. Souther, of St. Louis, and her sister, Mrs. Craig, of New York City, spent a few days here recently.

At All Times GENTLEMEN

When in need of tonsorial work, give us a trial. Norton Barber Shop Next to Post Office

ARROW “Troy Tailored” SOFT COLLARS CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

HERE’S A TRIUMPH FOR PROHIBITION

How It Has Furnished the World With a Valuable Beverage.

While the forces of prohibition were working to the end that alcohol should be banished from the U.S., there was one man who was working along a different line, from either side in the question. For seven years this man labored in Chicago to the perfection of an idea he had conceived, that lager beer had never in the past been properly made. When wartime prohibition became a fact, this man was not yet ready with the perfection of his idea, hence brewers began the making of a new unfermented “near beer,” a crude, undigestible, unhealthful product, which nevertheless sold in large quantities everywhere.

On July 19 of this year, the U.S. government issued letters patent to this man for a new plan of brewing and finishing beer, which he claims should have been in use years ago to make beer a perfectly ideal beverage for everybody, and in fact superior to any known drink for all the family. A crude experimental plant was first erected in Chicago, which proved perfect in working detail. Immediately, the Golden Grain Juice Company, of Minneapolis, contracted for this patent plant, which they had in working order on Oct. 30th, at a cost of $350,000. This new product, known as MINNEHAHA, pale and special (light and dark), goes back fifty years in brewing to the good old rich brew of the old country. Modern beer contained but little barley, being made mostly of corn, rice, grains, meals, etc. The new patent brew is made of only barley and hops; it is thoroughly fermented and aged for four months. It is thus rich in digestive properties and high flavor. Just before filtering and pasteurization, the patent process is introduced, which by vacuum, and without boiling, removes the high wines (alcohol) but not one whit of the low wines (color and flavor). Taste alone would not and could not detect that the alcohol was absent. It proved to be exhilarating, however, because of the hops and carbonic gas. The Chicago scientist has proved that alcohol was not necessary in beer, that in fact it was a detriment, and so prohibition had a use it was never designed to, for it perfected brewing to a point never dreamed of before.

Minnehaha, pale and special, will be shipped to any part of the United States by the Golden Grain Juice Co., Minneapolis, U.S.A.—Advertisement.