THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1920.

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE
J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
221 W. Trade St.
Phone 3486

ALL ROADS LEAD TO
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PRISCILLA DEAN
The Movie Queen, will soon be seen on the screen
At The Strand in the picture grand
“THE VIRGIN OF STAMBOUL”
Watch for Day and Date of Opening

See Us
For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by
The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.

Literary News

PHI SOCIETY HOLDS EXCELLENT MEETING
Eus Decide Against Bonus for Ex-Service Men.

Phi Society
The society was called to order by the vice-president, J. A. Poteat, and was ably led by him into one of the best meetings of the year. Debating for the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved that the U. S. government should give a bonus of $1.25 to ex-service men for each day in the service,” E. N. Booker, C. K. Brown, and C. G. Long won a unanimous decision from the negative, supported by J. M. Dunlay, L. Nichols, and C. N. Morrison. The decision was very much in doubt from the fact that Booker retired after his last speech without giving a rebuttal. F. V. Long followed the lively debate with equally as live a discussion of the subject “Determination.” As usual the extemp debate was hotly contested, neither side advancing an argument. Since the question was slightly inclined toward the negative, that exams should be held after commencement, the judges decided for the affirmative. Under the head of new business, J. C. Wool was elected treasurer for next year. Officers for the next year will be installed at the regular meeting next Saturday night.

Eu Society
The Eumenean Literary Society at its meeting last Saturday night carried through a very interesting program. The question for debate was: Resolved, “That the ex-soldier should be paid a dollar and a half for every day he was in service.” Roberts, E. B., Roddy, and Winter and Boyd upheld the affirmative, while Bradley, Jewel, King and Saunders defended the negative. Although a number of good points were brought out on both sides, the judges decided in favor of the negative. After the debate a declamation was given by H. H. Smith, on “Ingersoll at the Grave of Napoleon.” This was followed by an oration, “The Unpraised Hero” by C. J. Matthews. The society was then adjourned to meet only one more time this session.

POLITY CLUB TO HEAR NOTED FOREIGNER
Treat Promised Davidson Students in Form of Lecture by

In a letter received this week by Dr. J. M. McConnell, from the Institute of International Education, an opportunity was offered of hearing Baron S. A. Korff, of Russia, speak to the International Relation Club here on May 6. As Baron Korff is highly recommended as an authority on the Russian situation, it is probable that arrangements will be made to have him here on the suggested date, or some other convenient date. Baron Korff has the following history: “A Russian nobleman by birth, he held the position of assistant governor-general of Finland under the provisional government of Prince Lvoff and Kerensky; he was formerly professor of constitutional law at the University of Helsingfors, Finland, and at the women’s college of Petrograd; and in 1919 he served with the Russian Peace Delegation at Paris. For a man who has known Russia at first hand during the past few years, and who has suffered from the Bolsheviki, he speaks with unusual fairness and liberality.” The opportunity of hearing Baron Korff will probably be given to the entire student body, and it is hoped that a large number will turn out to hear him.

“You should have seen her face light up.”
“Did you set off the powder?” —Ex.

DAVIDSON-CORNELIUS POST OF AMERICAN LEGION ORGANIZED
More Than a Hundred Members Enrolled. Officers Elected

The Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion began life with a bang on the night of Wednesday, April the twenty-eighth. More than one hundred members were enrolled at a rousing meeting held in the Masonic hall at Davidson. Since soldiers from both vicinities lost their lives in France the name, Davidson-Cornelius Post, was deemed the only one which could be justly given. The principal object of the meeting was the election of officers. These officers are: Post Commander, Dr. J. W. McConnell; Vice-Commanders, Conrad Shelton and Tertius Stough; Executive Committee, Harry Caldwell, Palmer Henderson, C. D. Guion and Douglass Brown; Insurance Officer, Cloyd Potts; Vocational Officer, Zeb Holly; Secretary and Treasurer, Roderick Beard. The post favors all possible aid, both financial and educational, to the wounded and disabled service men, and also endorses the Fordney bill which is now before Congress. The post is opposed to a cash bonus, paid in a lump sum.

SENIORS CELEBRATE
The Senior Class is preparing to celebrate. At a recent meeting they decided to hold the long deferred banquet. L. L. McAlister was elected manager and told to “go to it.” It will be held on the night of the 21st, after all the Seniors are through, and are just about ready to “take the Dip.” Where it will be is as yet undecided. Manager McAlister is looking into the good points of both the Selwyn in Charlotte and the O Henry in Greensboro. Already the menus are being prepared by the two hotels and the best will be accepted.

DAVIDSON MAN FIRST AMERICAN TO PILOT PLANE ACROSS ALPS
On July 21, 1918, Spencer H. Carr, ’13, piloted the Caproni 5 from Milan, Italy, to Paris, about 600 miles away. Heand his flying partner were the first Americans to fly over the Alps. Lex Klutz, ’15, who is still in service, is making a tour of Switzerland and Italy and will visit all of the noted Italian cities. A. W. White, '12, is now located at 1916 F Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. Earle Rowland, '15, is now cashier of the National Bank of South Carolina, located at Sumter, S. C. E. Cousar, Jr., who won the Moses D. Hoge Fellowship at the Union Theological Seminary last year, is now finishing his Post Graduate work there. The following Davidson men will also graduate: Leonard Hugh Eikel, '17, John Kemp Hobson, '17, John Lytle McBride, '18, Herbert Seth Morgan, '17, Raymond Howard Ratchford, '17, and Walter Gray Summerville.

STUDENT BODY OFFICERS DULY INSTALLED

On Monday, April 26, after chapel, the Student Body Officers, Student Councilmen, and Class Presidents for 1921 were sworn into office by L. L. McAlister, present President of the Student Body. Several of the officers were not present but these will take the oath sometime in the near future. The following took the oath of office: A. L. Currie, L. W. Dick, C. M. McCaskill, T. M. Lowry, J. Boulware, J. C. McCaskill, J. C. Bailey, A. C. Carr, C. D. Tuller, and G. W. Mauze. After this rite had been performed, the student body pledged their support to the new officers and renewed their pledge to support the Student Body Constitution.

SIGMA UPSILON

The Blue Pencil chapter of the Sigma Upsilon held its last meeting on Wednesday, April 28. The program was very interesting, consisting of essays by C. H. Long and C. M. McCaskill, and book reviews by H. C. Hamilton, D. M. Chalmers, and D. L. Mahood. Mahood reviewed “The American Magazine” and Chalmers, “The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.” The members of the chapter discussed plans for the coming year, then adjourned to the more pressing business of getting outside, the delightful refreshments which were on hand.

COMMENCEMENT CLIPPINGS

Commencement this year will be one of the most interesting and attractive occasions in the history of the college. The program is full of very attractive features from beginning to end, and it is hoped that the students will take advantage of them by staying through the exercises. The General Assembly, which meets in Charlotte, May 20, has been invited to visit Davidson on May 22. This will be the first time in about 25 years that Davidson has had the honor of entertaining the General Assembly.

On Sunday, May 23, Rev. John McNeill, D.D., of Birmingham, Ala., will preach the Baccalaureate Sermon and also the Annual Sermon before the Y.M.C.A. Dr. McNeill is a Scotch-Canadian and one of the greatest men in our Church. He was for some time the pastor of a large church in N.Y. City before going to Birmingham.

Monday, May 24, the Senior Class Exercises and the Contest for the Junior Oratorical Medal will be held.

Tuesday afternoon, May 25, Dr. Thornton Whaling, president of the Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S. C., will address the Literary Societies. Dr. Whaling is one of the South’s most forceful and impressive speakers and will no doubt bring a message that one cannot afford to miss. Between 5 and 6 p.m., the President and Faculty will hold a reception for the Alumni, Trustees, and Visiting Friends. At 6 p.m., the Alumni Luncheon and the Annual Meeting of the Alumni Association will be held. At 9 p.m., Dr. Henry M. Snyder, president of Wofford College, Spartanburg, S. C., will deliver the Annual Literary Address. Dr. Snyder is very much in demand for addresses before college men and Davidson is fortunate in getting him to deliver this address.

Wednesday, May 26, at 11 a.m., the Graduation Exercises are to be held. At this exercise, Professors W. W. Wood and E. W. Shumake are to be regularly installed as professors of Davidson. It is also at this time that the College confers several Honorary Degrees. Four degrees are to be conferred this year. The D.D. degree is to be conferred upon Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, of Japan, Rev. H. C. Hammond, of S. C., and Rev. C. M. Boyd, of Alabama. The degree of Dr. of Science is to be conferred upon Dr. B. W. Kilgore, the State Chemist of N.C. After the Graduation Exercises, there is to be a Glee Club concert. In view of the above features, it is hoped that the students will stay and make this year’s Commencement the best in the history of Davidson.

TOWN NEWS

The Book Lovers Club will meet with Mrs. Currie on next Friday. The subject will be Russia. Miss Hattie Thompson will have charge of the program. Mrs. Shewmake spent the weekend at Davidson with her son, Professor E. F. Shewmake. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle attended the meeting of the North Carolina Chemical Society in Raleigh last week. Mrs. M. E. Calhoun, of Cornwall, Conn., is on a visit to her mother, Mrs. M. G. Ellenwood. Mrs. Ellenwood intends to return to her summer home in Cornwall at an early date. Mrs. Richards returned home Monday with her daughter, Sophie, who was operated on for appendicitis several days ago, in Statesville.

4th Street Brown Brothers’ Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements, write D. S. BROWN, Brown Brothers’ Orchestra, 1524 Chestnut Street, PHILADELPHIA, PA.