THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
B. H. ASKEW

Managing Editor
W. A. BILL

Assignment Editor
C. R. SPENCER

Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS

Exchange Editor
E. A. BILL

Forum Editor
T. H. SPENCER

Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN

C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON

Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, Jr.

Acting Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
S. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
N. T. L. LISTON
R. CRAIG
B. CUNNINGHAM
M. P. C.

Additional reporters for this issue are:
J. T. Wilkes, Jr.; A. C. Ormond, Jr.; J. W. Mauze, J. Gamble, Jr.; D. L. Ogden, A. P. Ormond, C. B. Sanders, A. D. King.

EDITORIAL

The “Million Dollar Issue”—For some reason the management likes the name. Alumni, if you do sign a pledge, and you will, sign the pledge on page 9—Give The Davidsonian credit.

THE MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN ISSUE.

REALIZING the importance of making the MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN a great success, The Davidsonian wishes to take this time to call the attention of the Alumni and friends to the fact that there is a great deal of work to be done yet. On January 1 there had been $650,000 raised, the campaign closes March 1, $350,000 more must be raised or the larger part of what has already been done will be lost. We have named this number the “MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN ISSUE” and in this we have tried to call to the attention of the Alumni a few of the reasons why they should come to the aid of their Alma Mater now, as never before. You will find on the Alumni page the pledge card which we ask that you will carefully read, fill out for as large amount as possible and mail to the college. The students are behind the movement and are pledging themselves to the limit—we know that the Alumni will do as much.

C. J. M.

Five New Year Resolutions Every Student Should Make and Keep.
1. Whereas our purpose in being here is to learn we will avail ourselves of every opportunity offered.
2. We will regularly attend all classes and college exercises.
3. We will prepare our daily recitations.
4. We will attend all Bible class and Y meetings.
5. We will not neglect our outside opportunities.

Five New Year Resolutions Some Students Need Not Make.
1. Whereas our purpose in being here is to have a good time, we will avail ourselves of every opportunity offered.
2. Our face shall be familiar to the absence committee.
3. When studies beckon we will be previously engaged.
4. We will take our weekly privilege to Charlotte.
5. We will attend classes as a funeral and enjoy them as much.

To the men who are now attending Davidson it is useless to enumerate the various needs of the college. Every day they see them and every day they are impressed with the fact that money could not be spent in a better way. As they go through the halls of Chambers and see the need of repairs and improvements, as they visit the gymnasium and are hampered by lack of equipment in the taking of their daily exercise, as they work in the laboratories and class rooms and find there the need of adequate facilities, and finally as they come to their crowded rooms at night and endeavor to study with their two roommates who perhaps have an easy day before them and are inclined to be loquacious, they know that if the college is to progress some radical changes must be made. They also know that for these improvements to be ample, sufficient means must be provided.

In the past few years various campaigns have been conducted at the college, all of which have resulted in the attainment of the goal and, in most cases, the surpassing of the minimum mark set. Last year during the throes of the S.A.T.C., within two hours more than $8,000 was raised for the united war work fund. This was done by a student body of little over 300. This year with a registration of almost 450 we are going to do greater things. We are going to put across the greatest drive the college has ever seen. Not for others this time, but for ourselves. Throughout this state a stupendously large fund is being raised for Presbyterian schools and colleges. Men and women who have never attended or received any direct benefit from these institutions have sacrificed to the utmost that the work of Christian education might be enhanced. If those who are not directly benefited are doing their share, how much more can they expect of us, the recipients of their generosity? No man who has attended a college is a creditor to it, he owes a debt both to the institution and to those who have made it possible for him to attend.Institution and to those who have made his education possible. It cost the college, it cost somebody, more than he put into it. The campaign which will be put on at Davidson is simple. It will occupy only a few hours, but in this time every man must do his part.

The amount to be raised may seem at first large, but considering the time in which it can be paid there is no hardship to be worked on any one. The inspiration which success among the students would cause in the general campaign cannot be estimated. To know that those whom they are helping are also helping themselves will strengthen the subscriptions more than anything else. In such a crisis the students have never failed to do their duty. Prepare then for the biggest thing that Davidson has ever pulled off and do your part to assure its success.

BITS OF COLLEGE PHILOSOPHY

Read the College Exchanges in the Library. Gleaned From the College Press.

Mighty few men have sprained their wrists in their eagerness to turn over new leaves.

Don’t kid yourself you've got a business longer than you have.

Be sure the money you've invested in books pays you dividends.

What’s the use of a six-cylinder mind that ain’t hittin’ on but three?

The college boy is hard to find who hates a “sport” and loves a “grind.”

Don’t get homesick; perhaps you weren’t half as valuable there as you thought you were.

Some men give according to their means, others according to their meanness.

Going to the bad is a poor way of proving that you are a good fellow.

Thermometers are not the only things without brains that are graduated.

The Lord hates a quitter—But He doesn’t hate him, son, when the quitter’s quitting something He shouldn’t have begun.

There are a lot of profs here we'd like to say things about, but, gee, we've got classes under ’em.

You can drive a fool to talk but you can’t make him think.

Just as the average man reaches for his pipe, it goes out.

You can’t judge what a man gets out of college by the amount of money he spends.

Movies to be Shown Again During Spring Term.

The movie shows for the present term will begin Thursday night at 7 o'clock in the gymnasium. The picture for this week is “The Man From Painted Post.” Doug Fairbanks is the star of the picture and a fine show is expected. Those in charge have not received a synopsis of the story but it is recommended as a good picture. The pictures this spring will be run and managed in the same way that they were last fall. A number of good plays will be shown and it is hoped that all the students will enjoy this form of amusement. In order not to conflict with the basketball game Friday night, the picture this week will be on Thursday night.

Wilson Highway to Be Connecting Link Between Charlotte and Davidson

Plans Under Way for Much-Needed Road to the Queen City

The recent move to construct a 30-foot hard surface road from Charlotte to Davidson has met with hearty enthusiasm in the Davidson student body. The very poor condition which the road is now in is no doubt partly responsible for the infrequency of visits to the city. Davidson and Charlotte are mutually assets to each other and a good road connecting them would benefit both places. When Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick came to Davidson speaking in the recent congressional campaign he had to come over the road in its present bad condition. When he arrived at Davidson he had already made up his mind to promote a good road between the College and Charlotte. Mr. Hoey made the trip a few days later and came to the same conclusion—that a good road at this point was a necessity. Aside from the consideration that a good road would bring money to Charlotte—Davidson students spending about $400,000 a year—is the consideration that Davidson would become accessible to the people of Charlotte. Numerous people who would like to visit Davidson because of friends here or because it is a point of interest are prevented from doing so because of the condition of the road.

G. D. Elliott, ex-’20, and J. A. Shaw, ’18, are studying medicine at the University of North Carolina. Mr. Shaw was on the Hill for a few days this week. Shaw and Elliott will be recalled as the star tackles on the famous Wild Cat machine.

A man doesn’t like his pipe? There's nothing that whets your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. Because you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction. Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is a WDC, because in WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process. Then, too, WDC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree with us that our craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against cracking or burning through.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES