Christian

WHAT THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS ARE DOING

Mr. F. L. Jackson, as superintendent of the Mill Sunday School, with an able body of helpers, is continuing to do good work. Stereopticon pictures on the life of Christ are shown every Tuesday night. These pictures not only keep up the attendance but hold the attention of the people as they are explained and morals are drawn from them. The reports from the other Sunday Schools are as follows:

Shearer—Present, 55; teachers, 7.
Oak Grove—Present, 20; teachers, 6.
Cornelius—Present, 55; teachers, 5.
Brawleys—No report.
Caldwell—Present, 53; teachers, 5.

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

SPORTS

A.G. Spalding & Bros. now carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with it. The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee of quality and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Our service makes distance no disadvantage.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

Activities

COLLEGE LESSONS THAT COUNT

The first part of the evening was spent in different sorts of amusements and before anyone realized it, the time for refreshments came. The dining room was decorated very appropriately with a large pumpkin. Jack o'lanterns and small paper witches riding broomsticks were on each table. Cocoa and cakes were served in the dining room and then everybody returned to the parlor and found a large box of marshmallows, some sharp sticks, and a splendid toasting fire. Imagine the rest.

DR. J. C. METCALF

At the “Y” meeting last Sunday evening, C. W. Tillett, Jr., of Charlotte, spoke on the subject, “College Lessons That Count in a Man’s Life.” He told of those things which experience in after life taught him were most worthwhile in college. Coming, as he did, a layman, from a lawyer's position in Charlotte, he made a strong appeal to every student present.

“You students, looking out upon life, are interested in success,” said Mr. Tillett. “So am I. I was at first skeptical as to character, and its value in a man’s life. But let me tell you right now, it’s ‘O K.' I thought more of being on the alert, catching the big opportunity as it passed, and being a good fellow among one’s associates. These things are good, but as I have seen more of life, and studied those things which make for true success, I have found that the fundamental basis of such a life is true working character. We see it everywhere, in business, and all around us today, those who forge ahead, and who gain success, are those whose lives are founded on this basis of character that holds true. This is no pretense or sham, but rather like, after a cold shower and a good rub-down, that thrill that runs through every vein of your body, and you feel clean all through.

“But how do we get this character? It’s not all of a sudden, but we must each day lay up a reserve. When in the heat of the fray on the football field, the chance comes to ‘rough it up,’ or in a decisive point in a tennis match, the ball skims the line, it is not our thoughts then that will guide us. In every crisis we move by reflex, and it is our past actions, our store of reserve force that alone can guide us right. Every day will have its contest, and every day we are building character. Watch the little things. Look people straight in the eye. If you don’t know a man’s name, tell him frankly. If you want to keep that commandment, ‘Do not kill,’ you must dig deeper and not get mad. If you would keep your life clean, you must keep your thoughts clean, and cut the sin off at its root. This is Christ's plan.

“As Shakespeare has said:
‘To thine own self be true,
And it must follow as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.’”

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR HOLDS SOCIAL

“Rain, rain, go away!" This was the desire of every Davidson Christian Endeavorer last Tuesday afternoon. However, by night it had stopped and a large crowd met with Miss Willie Henderson at her home for a Halloween party. There was a large number present both from among the students and the town.

Atlanta, Georgia

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

J.B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility.for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

TO SPEAK NEXT SUNDAY

Next Sunday evening Dr. John C. Metcalf, of the University of Virginia, will deliver an address on “The Parables.” The “Y” meeting and church service will be combined into one, in order that the town people may have an opportunity to hear Dr. Metcalf. Dr. Metcalf was originally from Kentucky, where he was born in 185. He received his A.B. degree from Georgetown (Ky.) College; his M.A. from Harvard, and his Ph.D. from Chicago University. Since receiving his doctor’s degree he has been professor of English in a number of Southern institutions and is now filling that chair in the University of Virginia. Dr. Metcalf is the author of several of our English text-books and is himself famous as a teacher and lecturer on English literature. He will deliver an address at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte Sunday morning, coming here for the evening service. He will visit the different English classes Monday and Tuesday and give brief talks to the students. On Monday evening in Shearer Hall he will deliver a popular lecture and possibly make a talk during the assembly period Tuesday morning.

DR. RICHARDS DELIVERS VERY STRONG SERMON

Dr. Richards delivered one of his strongest sermons last Sunday morning, urging his people to “line up” with Christ. With a force born of conviction, Dr. Richards said: “If the church would do its duty the whole globe would be covered in three years.” His text was taken from John 6:20 and 16:0: “This is the work of God, that you believe on him whom he has sent.” Good deeds are well, but they do not give us the satisfaction and peace that we desire. This comes only by accepting Christ, taking him as our Redeemer and friend for life. We do not hesitate calling in a physician when we are sick, yet we put off calling the Great Physician who died that we might live. In closing Dr. Richards pointed out that we have no option on life for “we know not the day nor the hour.” But the great test is, “Will you accept him whom he has sent?”

TYROLEAN YODLERS TO APPEAR HERE

Novel and Interesting Program Promised Lyceum Patrons.

November 16 is the date of the next number of Redpath’s Lyceum given at Davidson. This number will consist of a musical program given by the Original Swiss Singers and Yodlers. In this company Redpath offers its patrons a unique musical organization that combines novelty with real musical merit. This company was organized originally in Innsbruck, one of the most picturesque places in the Swiss Tyrol, which is the summer haunt of many royal personages and is the very heart and cradle of the music-loving, music-living Tyroleans. From their Alpine homes these singers and instrumentalists have been selected by their famous directoress, Mrs. Otto Fiechtl, are trained and rehearsed in their world-famous folk and inimitable yodel and warbling songs. They appear in the picturesque and beautiful national costume of these people, and two complete changes of costume are made during their program. Mrs. Fiechtl’s family has for generations been known as leading folk-singers and yodlers among their own people, holding unquestioned rank as master artists in their craft. A few years ago in a six days’ yodel and song contest in Innsbruck this family made good the claim by winning first prize from representatives of the entire Tyrol land. Davidson is fortunate in securing this company for one of the Lyceum numbers and a real treat is in store November 16.

INSURANCE—LIFE AS A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents in multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE BILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE

High Class Moving Pictures Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano

Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Repairing, Moving, Tuning. CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc. ESTABLISHED 1842 M. D. MANNING, Manager 219 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C. A. DUNN, President A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. S. MCPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA

Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices 20 West Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”

Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more—no limit. Full death benefits in addition—double for accidental death. Rates reasonable. G. W. PATTERSON, Gen’l Agt. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company 1016-18 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C. Openings for Live men as agents

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses, make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got? W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers Rock Hill, S.C.