Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1920.

Begin at once to cross Pennington’s tracks. Pennington, having heard of the franchise, persuades the mayor to call a special meeting of the council and recall the franchise, but it was too late, for Cardigan’s men almost had the crossing. Pennington quickly sent his “gang” in to delay the work and a general fight ensued. Pennington was arrested and his men joined Cardigan. Sight is restored to Cardigan’s father and things run smooth. Wallace Reid played the part of young Cardigan. A short one-reel comedy followed this picture which certainly carried us back to “Ye good old days” when “Tige” was a pup.

THE GARBER-DAVIS Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras and Mrs. Caleb Richmond Harding, of Davidson, and is a brother of Mrs. A. A. McGeachy and Mrs. Addison Brenizer, of Charlotte. He was educated at Davidson College and is a young man with keen intellect and strong personality. Mr. Harding was a member of hospital unit O, which his brother-in-law, Dr. Addison Brenizer, of Charlotte, organized, and was overseas for more than a year. Since the war Mr. Harding has been connected with the Firestone Tire Company, as adjuster. He is held in highest regard by his company. Mr. Harding possesses an attractive personality and genial manners and commands a wide circle of friends in business and society. Dr. and Mrs. Harding went down to attend the wedding.

LOYALTY TO COUNTRY AND COLLEGE (Continued from page 1)

There was also a limited number of medals on hand at that time. During this presentation the battalion remained at rigid attention while the non-R. O. T. C. students and townspeople looked on in awe. Silence spoke louder than words, the thanks of the people to the boys who were ready to make the supreme sacrifice if necessary that the world might be made safe for democracy. After this solemn ceremony the persons decorated assembled themselves in the reviewing stand while the battalion paraded in a column of platoons. The lines of the platoons were almost perfect, but the first platoon of C Company, commanded by First Lieut. J. P. Price, was pronounced the best by some of the observers. This was not official as there was no official report. The ex-service men who received medals were:

Hearn, T. G., captain.
Johnson, W. T., first sergeant.
Champe, C. W., sergeant.
Ryan, J. B., sergeant.
Hood, Fraser.
Knight, J. L.
McConnell, J. W.
Adams, A. N.
Elliott, H. B.
Legare, W. S.

J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 346
221 W. Trade St.
PERFECT PRINTING PLATES
PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS
JAN GARBER
Owner and Director
E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Business Manager

Say it with Flowers
L. A. ELLIOTT
Candies, Fruits Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
See me for your feeds
PLATEMAKERS FOR
The Macamac Company
THE DAVIDSONIANHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Blue, J. M. Sorrells, G. B. Ve Potts, C. A. Johnston, W. G. Query, S. M. Booe, E. L. Hourly fou Sew Orleans, ete! Lacy, F. A. Cathey, H. M. Fisher, C. J. Brown, C. G. Brown, D. Say ofhL clock, ‘VU etn shar Avme - id kite to Rea r w ooth, W. elton, C. J. AND TODAY fenally pulled ow Dicer oe aba fan euge Got Aut right (Continued from page 1) when lumber and building material were cheap. Chambers may be compared to a monster hen spreading out her wings to their fullest extent and trying in vain to cover her too large brood. She still looks down on the busy campus life and smiles, as she thinks of days gone by. When days grow cold and the wind whistles through her halls, a shudder runs through her frame and she thinks longingly of that future day when her chambers shall be heated with steam. (To be continued)

WALLACE REID SEEN IN LAST MOVIE

In the great redwood forests of a Western State, there was a wonderful valley, known as “The Valley of the Giants.” This valley was especially sacred to a certain family known as the Cardigans. The mother in this little family was buried near an especially large redwood and this was the cause of its sacredness. Coming back from college, young Cardigan meets with an old sweetheart from whom he hears that his father is almost blind and that he is almost compelled to see the “dear old valley.” Arriving at home, he finds that Pennington, the father of his sweetheart, has refused to carry out a contract to haul his father’s lumber, and on this account the valley would have to be sold. Cardigan, furious with Pennington, begins at once to clear the matter. He sends for “Buck” Oglivy, a famous publicity man, and the two at once begin to formulate plans for building a new railroad, which they intend at first to serve as a bluff. Later, however, with the aid of other lumbermen, they decide to build a road for sure. Meanwhile, the valley is sold through a lawyer to Pennington’s daughter. They decide at once to get a franchise, as it was necessary for them to cross Pennington’s road. Using a “J. P. M.” brand, they easily get the franchise and...

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed to be corrupted, so I preserved them as they were.