THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920

Athletic News

BAD WEATHER HINDERS BASEBALL PRACTICE. FIRST GAME NEXT WEDNESDAY.

With only one more week before the opening game, the Wildcats are hard at practice, getting in shape for the
fast Old Ridge nine. Bad weather hampered Coach Hengeveld’s charges during the past week to a great degree, but failed
to rout the enthusiasm of the candidates. The squad of thirty has been putting in some strenuous work, outdoor and
indoor, and should be in tip-top shape for the initial game next Wednesday, on the Hill.

Very little change has been made in the lineup of the candidates. In the infield, a battle royal is being
staged for positions. At third, Eris Cassell, of last year’s Varsity, is handling anything that happens by and bids strong
for his former position. Long, a Freshman, is also showing up well at the hot corner. At the midway station,
Ratchford, last year’s letter man, is going better than ever. The little midget is right on the job and is
looking better than he did last year already. Neal is also being used at the keystone sack. On first, it
is a fight between McArn and Barnette. Both are putting up a great scrap and baseball circles are wondering how
the game next week will start at the initial sack. At shortstop, Cassell, F., still continues to show up to
land his position. Huffstetler and Sample, however, are pushing him, and the final occupant of this position is also being
looked forward to with interest by the students.

With only one veteran back in the outfit, the race for positions there is keen and close. Johnny Richards of
last year’s nine is being used in left field. He is putting up a bang-up game and is wielding “old
betsy” in great fashion. The race for the other two positions is close. Those showing up well are Poe, Shepherd,
Miley, G., and Crawford. Shepherd is being alternated in the box also. The race for catcher this year lies between
Johnson, of last year, and Wrenn, former Oak Ridge and A. E. F. man. Both are putting up a great
game in the receiving department and the position will be well taken care of, it matters not which one wins
out. The mainstays on the pitching staff are “Buck” Currie and “Bill” Miley of last year’s twirlers. Both are going
good but the weather has kept both from strenuous practice. Shepherd, who pitched on an A. E. F. team in
France, is also showing good form. Sorrells, a portsider, is getting in good shape and with a couple more weeks
will have his slants working good. These four are all putting out a mixed variety of stuff and with a
little warm weather in which to put something on the old pill, the Red and Black twirling staff should be
in top-notch form.

DR. DEVINE TO LECTURE AT DAVIDSON.

Friday, March 26th, at 7:15 p.m., Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York, Associate Editor of “The Survey,” will give
an address in Shearer Hall on “The Three R’s” (Reaction: Revolution: Reconstruction). The privilege of having this distinguished American at
Davidson is due to the N. C. Conference for Social Service, which is bringing him to their annual meeting in
Goldsboro. Dr. Devine is a Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Penn., a Doctor of Laws of several institutions.
Following are titles of some of his books: “The Family and Social Work,” “Social Forces,” “Economics,” “The Practice of Charity,”
“The Spirit of Social Work,” “Efficiency and Relief,” etc. Dr. Devine had held the following positions of trust: General Secretary
of N. Y. Charity Organization Society, Director of New York School of Philanthropy, Professor of Social Economy in Columbia University,
Special Representative of the Red Cross at San Francisco after the disastrous earthquake and fire, same at Dayton, Ohio, after
its disaster of 1913, Chief of the Bureau of Refugees and Relief of the American Red Cross in Paris 1917-8,
etc. All members of the College, as well as residents of Davidson, are cordially invited to attend the address of
Dr. Devine, which will begin promptly at 7:15. No admission fee.

GOLF TOURNAMENT TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK.

The Davidson Golf Club will hold its annual spring tournament the week of March 22 to 27. Prizes will be
given to winners, and the foremost will be selected to represent the club against other clubs which it will meet
this spring. This team will probably be composed of four to six men. It will be a handicap tournament, one
in which every player has an equal chance. Do not be discouraged from entering this tournament because you think you
play too poorly and therefore would have no chance, because handicaps will be arranged so as to put everyone on
a par. The players may play in twosomes or foursomes, the play being by hole play, and the entire score
counting only whenappointing the team. A team that will make trips to play clubs and play them on the hill
will be a new feature of the club this spring, and already matches have practically been obtained with various clubs
of this section. Everybody should look forward to this as an added source of pleasure for this spring. The Golf
Club sincerely invites and hopes everybody will come out and try the course, and see if they cannot become interested
in the game. A good showing against these clubs will help Davidson quite a bit, and if we are to
make a good showing we must all back it up. Come out, if you cannot play, and watch the progress
of the tournament during the afternoons of next week. The Tournament fee will be very small, the entire amount going
for prizes. All interested register immediately at 7 Ga.

STUDENT OF DAVIDSON BREAKS INTO MUSICAL FAME

At last the desires of the Davidson College students have materialized. For a number of years Davidson has lacked a
standard edition of her old war song. This deficiency has at last been filled through the energetic efforts of Mr.
B. Ernest Shields. This young embryo composer has set the tune of “O! Davidson” to music and has taken the
responsibility of having it published at his own expense. The words of “O! Davidson” were written by Mr. E. H.
Hamilton, of the class of '17, and have served the cohorts of D. C. for the past several years through
thick and thin. Her athletic teams have heard it resound through the air in victory and in defeat. May it
always be so.

BIBLE CLASSES OMITTED DURING CONFERENCE

Regular Meetings Next Sunday.

“John’s Picture of Worship in Heaven” will be the topic for discussion in next Sunday’s lesson. Only seven more Sundays
in which some of the student body will have to meet in Bible discussion groups. They should be made to
count. Every fellow either makes or ruins his floor’s attendance. Which are you? No Bible classes and only a few
Sunday Schools were held last Sunday. However, next Sunday should see everything going 100 per cent strong.

GOLF CLUB HOLDS MEETING.

At the last meeting of the Golf Club the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, Dr. Arbuckle;
Secretary, Special Agent White; Treasurer, Prof. Wood.

Plans for arousing interest among the students were discussed and a spring tournament was decided upon. The membership fee was
lowered from $5.00 to $3.00 for the rest of this year, and the hope was expressed that many more of
the fellows would take advantage of this privilege and join.

CAMPUSISMS.

Dr. James Douglas, who has been indisposed for several days, is about well.

The first baseball game of the season 1920 was pulled off Monday afternoon by Coach Hengeveld’s proteges. According to “Hoyle”
the final score stood 1 to 0 (more or less) in favor of the “Scrubs.” “Bill” Miley opines that the
“old pill” “was not bein’ swat enough” at the said game.

C. H. Long and A. F. Fricker spent the week-end at home.

“Dave” Roberts, ex-’20, ex-editor-in-chief of the “Livest Wire on the Hill,” was back on the Hill for the Volunteer Conference.
The conference showed rare good judgment when it elected “Dave” president for the coming year and he showed rarer judgment
when he decided to come back “home” next year.

C. Howell, ’19, and R. H. Bennet, ’16, were back for the Volunteer Conference.

“Pap” Askew is recovering from a slight but painful operation.

Those who signed up for the R. O. T. C. summer camp were “treated” to a typhoid shot Monday. Mrs.
Robinson was the efficient hostess.

First Sergeant Washam has been relieved from duty at Morrison Armory.

TO WIN?

A New International Dictionary with a 400,000 Vocabulary Terms, 2700 Illustrations, Colored Plates, Medical Subjects, 12,000 New Words. Regular and
India-Paper Editions.

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C. WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music.

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM

ACADEMY Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 18, 19, 20

OVERTURE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS ROLIN COMEDY

LAWRENCE and QUICK “THE BLUE DEVIL GIRLS”

HEIMS and LOCKWOOD Clever Comedy Couple

“LELIA” and Her Hawaiian Serenaders In “A TROPICAL SERENADE” Singing, Music, Dancing

LARRY COMER Some Old, Some New Presents An Intimate Song Revue: HELENA JACKLEY The Sensational Girl
