HONOR ROLL
Of the Davidson Graded School for the Month of March.

Tenth Grade—Inez Christenbery, Martha Hamilton.
Eighth Grade—Sophie Richards, Nina Holt White.
Sixth Grade—Sidney Proctor, Rufus Johnson, William Hall.
Fifth Grade—Hayne Henderson, Mildred Mooney, Margaret Johnson.
Fourth Grade—Adele Arbuckle, Janie Leighton Richards, James Caldwell, Sarah Withers, Ralph Reid, Connie Cauthen, Clarence Keever, Robert Reid.
Second Grade—Gertrude Abernathy, Mildred Fortner, Christine Mooney, Z. K. Justice, Williard Little, Jack Johnson.
First Grade—Mildred Keeder, Stancil Crews.

BASEBALL GAME BECOMES BATTLE OF BRAINS
Brady Beats Juniors by Brilliant Bean Work—Big League Scouts in Stands Looking for Material.

“You can’t beat brains” (a quotation a la Friend) best describes the contest in baseball between the Juniors and Seniors
last Saturday morning. While not a forensic exercise in the strictest terminology, yet the umpire was heard to make some
red utterance both before and during the exhibition. The batteries were Clown Cathey and Center Brady, for the Seniors. For
the Juniors, Romantic Romefelt officiated on the mound and Wooer Walker wore the dog muzzle.

The Juniors started off in a blaze of glory, only to slow down as Cathey’s conquering curves commenced cutting capers
around the corners of the plate. When Bobby Long couldn’t hit with the bat, he used the next most appropriate
article—his head—and knocked a home run. Romeo forgot once that the batter was not at second base, and the batter
was shipped to first. But for stealing, Josephus takes the cake. He sometimes tries to steal second with all bases
full, but then sometimes things don’t go well.

The star of the whole game was Britches Brady. Samson came to bat in the ninth with two out and
all bases full. The spectators held their breath; would he knock a home run—or strike out? Finally, something seemed to
happen up in his think basket. He had evidently decided upon the most glorious grandstand act. He jumped once. He
jumped twice. Would he succeed? He jumped thrice, and got hit. This act won the game as was afterward seen.
The game was called at the end of the 6 2-3rd inning as every man on the team had been
hit or otherwise incapacitated. After all the adding machines and stop watches on the campus had been brought into play,
it was found that the game was worth the attendance of the whole student body.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

DAVIDSON REGRETS DEPARTURE OF SGT. CARROLL
Popular R. O. T. C. Non-Com to Receive Discharge; Has Made Many Friends Among Students.

After a little less than a year’s service in R. O. T. C. headquarters, Sergeant Carroll will leave Davidson next
Friday. During this time, all who have come in contact with the Sergeant have learned to like him and appreciate
the work he has done for the R. O. T. C. Sergeant Carroll has made “Colonel” a splendid office man
and his place will be hard to fill. Sergeant has always found him ready and willing to give any information
in his power.

Sergeant Carroll leaves for his home in Summerville, Mass., where he expects to stay for a few weeks. During the
summer, he expects to work for the National Map Company; later he will assist his brother, who is manager of
several movie concerns. Every man in the battalion hates to give up one who has taken as much interest in
them as Sergeant Carroll, but every one of them wishes him the best of luck in his new work.

The new sergeant who comes to take up R. O. T. C. work is W. F. Johnson, who for two
years was a student at Davidson. “Tobe,” as he was called by the boys, went to the third officer's training
camp, Leon Springs, Tex., as a sergeant. He was discharged in March, 1919, and reenlisted at Fort Oglethorpe, April 20,
1919. While at Davidson, “Tobe” was assistant manager of The Davidsonian and he is welcomed back on the Hill by
all the boys.

ZANE GREY TURNS AUTOBIOGRAPHIST
Popular Author Tells of His Experiences as an Angler in the Pacific.

Thousands have been thrilled by Zane Grey’s “Desert of Wheat,” “Scarlet Sage” and other absorbing novels of Western life, but
Zane Grey has now turned autobiographer, telling of his experiences as an angler in the Pacific.

TOWN NEWS.
On last Friday night, the Christian Endeavor Society had a very enjoyable time at a social given at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hamilton.

Miss Mary Black, from Flora Macdonald College, is spending a few days at home.

Miss Huss, of Charlotte, spent a few days in Davidson last week.

R. S. Johnson and Company have bought the Davidson Hardware Company and have moved into their new quarters.

M. H. Goodrum Company have extended their business and are using the store vacated by the R. S. Johnson Company.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet in Dr. Lingle’s classroom Friday afternoon at 4 p.m., in order to have the
use of his maps in connection with an address on Reconstruction work in France which he has kindly agreed to
give.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell has accepted the presidency of the Civic Club, on the resignation of Mrs. Martin because of
her illness. The vigorous cleaning the village received last week is largely due to Mrs. McConnell’s interest and enthusiasm.

Miss Sarah Lingle, of Salem College, spent the weekend with her parents.

Mrs. N. T. Smith is visiting in Winston-Salem during the week.

Miss Jean Dupuy has been a recent visitor in the home of Miss Maude Vinson. Miss Dupuy was on her
way from Greensboro to New Orleans, for an extended visit.

Mrs. Shewmake, the mother of Prof. E. F. Shewmake, who has spent the winter with him, will return to her
home in Virginia next week.

Mrs. C. A. Munroe, the mother of Mrs. J. M. Douglas, has returned from a long visit in Virginia, accompanied
by her brother, Mr. Allen.It was shown that the sophisticated Seniors had saved their sense of security to the sound
of seven-six. Umpire, Hula Hula McArn.

LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL TO PRESENT THREE ACT PLAY MONDAY NIGHT

On next Monday night the Davidson High School will present, in Shearer Hall, a very charming three-act play entitled “A
Kentucky Belle.” The play will be acted entirely by local talent, with Misses Jessamine Brown, Inez Christenbury, and Sarah Hamilton
taking the leading feminine parts. Four college boys, David Lowrance, A. V. Gibson, H. S. McCallum, and W. P. Nesbit
(“in song and story”) will carry the leading masculine parts. The play is under the supervision of Mr. Miles and
Mrs. A. Currie. Thirty-five cents admission will be charged, the money going into repairs for the school building.

The plot hinges about the race of Kentucky Belle, a race horse, upon whose success hangs the hand of the
heroine. Other sensations are a telephone linemen’s strike, a guitar solo, a clog dance, and a song by all the
actors (“My Old Kentucky Home”). On the whole, the play is a singularly interesting one and is well worth attending.

His face was blank. Grey as an autobiographist is a new thing under the sun. However, a more readable book
than his “Tales of Fishes” would be hard to find. Zane Grey is an angler of no mean ability, having
broken several records in the fishing world. He is vice-president of the Avalon Tuna Club and president of the Long
Key Fishing Club. For several years he has spent the greater part of his time on the Pacific Coast, catching
tuna, savalo, tarpon, swordfish, and other fighting denizens of the deep. The story of his experiences is simply and graphically
told in the “Tales of Fishes,” which has been off the press for only a few months. Let anyone who
believes that a fishing story is uninteresting read Zane Grey and Captain Dan’s five-hour fight for a broadbill swordfish. The
reader's interest is held unceasingly from the time the magnificent 318-pounder is sighted till it is victoriously hauled aboard. The
book is rendered doubly interesting by the large number of actual photographs, taken of fishers in every situation from their
first jump till they are safely landed and hung up for the admiring throng.

“YOU.”

“Soft I sit in dreaming,
As oft I am wont to do.
Of songs and girls and women
But most of all of you.

“Of your eyes so bright and blue
Always dancing, laughing through
I wonder if they are as true
As they are gay and blithe and new.

“Then your smiling still conspiring
With those eyes so blue and gay
To charm and hold by their beguiling
Till they steal my heart away.

“Happy prisoner thus to be
Safely charmed and hid away;
Keep it in captivity, lose the key
And tell my heart that it may stay.”—Ex

Stokes, of Hampden-Sidney, Frederick Reed, the youngest son of Prof. Macon Reed, was operated on for mastoiditis at the Sanitorium
in Charlotte on Friday afternoon. He has been very sick but is improving in a satisfactory manner.

Rev. and Mrs. A. C. Ormond, parents of A. P. and A. C. Ormond, of the student body, will move
to Talladega, Ala., in a few weeks. Mr. Ormond has been connected with the Presbyterian Education Campaign which resulted in
the large addition to Davidson’s endowment and has accepted the pastorate of the church at Talladega. They have been a
delightful addition to the social life of Davidson and will be greatly missed.

Mrs. Woolsey, of New York City, is visiting her mother, Mrs. Ellinwood, on North Main Street. Mrs. Woolsey came because
of her mother’s illness, and it is a matter of much pleasure to all her friends to know that Mrs.
Ellinwood is improving.

BOOK LOVERS’ CLUB.

The Book Lovers’ Club held its last meeting on March 27 at the home of Mrs. Withers. The leader of
the evening, Mrs. Lola Johnston, presented a paper on the problems of rebuilding France. A review of recent fiction works
followed this, and the meeting closed with a social hour during which a salad course was served. The subject, France,
will be discussed at the next meeting by Mrs. Withers. The club at this time will be entertained by Mrs.
Hamilton.

A coaching school will be conducted by the Presbyterian College of South Carolina this summer. This school will run eight
weeks, beginning Tuesday, June 15, and closing Friday, August 6.—The Blue Stocking.

Printed and Engraved Business Cards and Announcements. We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS. Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C. 14 E. 4th St.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S. sells all kinds of life insurance policies at the lowest rates. Total
DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man
should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $20,000 policy. How much have you got?
W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers J. P. QUARLES, Manager

CAMP SAPPHIRE BREVARD, N. C. W. McK. FETZER, Director Athletic Educational Military Beautiful lake, baseball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect
tennis courts, canoe trips to Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175. For information and catalog address the Secretary, MACON
REED, Davidson, N. C., until June 1; after this date, Brevard, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists. We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want
to serve you. White Drug Company The Rexall Store

TATE-BROWN CHARLOTTE New Spring Suits From the shops of “Society Brand” Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection. Spring
Shoes. Shirts, Furnishings, etc. The new Straw Hats are here. Tryon at 4th Street
