THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920.

—————

Printed and Engraved Business Cards and Announcements. 
We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS.
Queen City Printing Co.
14 E. 4th St. Charlotte, N. C.

(Wass) L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Reliable Equipment —FOR— Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42d St., New York City.
We want Agents where we are not already represented.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE
New Spring Suits From the shops of “Society Brand”
Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection.
Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc.
The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street

CONFERENCE RED DELEGATES REGISTERED FOR THE CONFERENCE
All Make Statements as to Impression of Davidson and the Conference.

Each delegation at the conference was requested to prepare an official list of delegates and to state briefly what the conference meant to them. Below is the list of those who responded with the statement in full or in part. It is regretted that all delegations did not get in their papers and also that space does not permit the printing in full the statement of each.

Adanti ge.
Misses Anna Moore and Olive Spear and Mr. Hilary Bowen.
“The conference at Davidson has been one of great spiritual uplift ... Long will the warmth of Davidson live in our hearts.”

Brevard Institute.
W. O. Parker.
“The great responsibility of the delegates to carry away and to impart some of this zeal, information and inspiration to our fellow students ... impressed me in this conference.”

Catawba College.
Misses Pearl Peeler and Lucille Andrew, and Dr. B. D. Lucas and Malcolm Palmer.
“This conference has renewed our interest in missions. ... We are praying that our college may have a volunteer for mission work.”

Davenport College.
Misses Marrene Hauser and Emily Mathis.
“To us has been given not only a clearer and better vision of our Father’s love but a larger vision of the great needs of the world.”

Elon College.
P. E. Lindley, M. J. W. White, O. C. Johnson, H. L. Scott, T. H. Pass, W. Fix.
“The fine spirit of fellowship enjoyed with Davidson faculty, students and citizens was greatly enjoyed. The convention has given us a broader vision of world service.”

Flora Macdonald College.
Misses Elizabeth Orr, Myrtle Wyatt, Ellen Black, Janie Buchanan and Elizabeth Buchanan.
“What other colleges can do, we will do... . We feel more willing to say, ‘Lord, here am I, send me.’”

Greensboro College for Women.
Misses Naomie Howie, Margaret Boylan, Louise Quinn, Edith Ader, Verna Edwards, Elizabeth Ferguson, Mary Wilson and Cara Wrenn.
“We have been strongly impressed by the fact that mission study is not primarily for scattering missionary information but for arousing a dynamic interest in the cause.”

Guilford College.
Misses Alma Chilton, Clara Henley, Era Lasley, Florence Cox, Vera Farlow, Ruth Reynolds, and Messrs. C. B. Shore and Hugh Moore.
“We have had our purpose strengthened and our plans have become more definite.”

Louisburg College.
Misses Leota Jordan and Mary Clary Knight.
“This conference ... has given a clearer vision of what has been done, what there is to be done and what and how much we can help.”

Meredith College.
Misses Beth Carroll, Lucille Kelly, and Emma Jackson.
“We received a great inspiration from the meeting and shall endeavor to take back to our college ...”echoes from these sessions.” 

Mitchell College. Misses Elizabeth Robinson, Lula Mae Smith, Helen Meroney, Susie Renick, Emma Hamiter, Julia Hunter, Lucille Miller, and Margaret Morrison. “It has created in us an active missionary spirit and we are anxious to go back with a message that will give new zeal to our fellow students.” Misses Katrine Wiggins, Sara Britton, Edna Deaton, Georgianna Kyles, and Myrtle Williamson. “This conference has given to me a deeper conviction that Volunteers are the luckiest people in college today; a firmer resolution to try to double my life before going to the field, and a richer prayer life.” 

Trinity College. Misses Estelle Warlick, Tina Fussell, Pearl Adams, Messrs. S. A. Maxwell, J. W. Fitzgerald, J. D. Stott, J. L. Hester, Paul Gibbs, and Eugene Chesson. “A deeper realization of the relationship that exists between our college and other colleges in the state as regards missionary activities.” 

Wake Forest College. T. C. Allen, C. B. Howard, J. R. Nelson, and S. E. Ayers. “From the conference we have gained a new zeal for missions and many helpful ideas for ourselves and for our Volunteer Band.” 

North Carolina College for Women. Misses Ethel Boyte, Eva Campbell, Sue Erwin, Lena Kernodle, La Rue Stroud, and Annie Bell Williams. “The conference at Davidson has created in us a new missionary conscience and made us feel the lack of purpose in our Bible study classes.” 

In addition to the above, the registration records show the following names: 

North Carolina A. & E. I. G. Hobbs. 

Peace Institute. Misses Dorothy Blount, Bennie Lee Upchurch, and Eugenia Fairley. 

Salem College. Misses Gena Church and Nina Sue Gill. 

(Continued on page 5)

Spalding Tennis Equipment Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including Gymnasium Clothing. Send for catalog. 

A. G. SPALDING & Bros. 

THE COMMISSARY The College Printers If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO ORDERS SOLICITED OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE 

“The House of Service” 1. Free tuning for three years. 2. Free fire insurance while you are paying. 3. Exchange privilege. 

Charlotte’s Largest Store Of Quality Pianos and Organs 

LAN AT THE COMMISSARY 

The Selwyn Hotel FIRE PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. 

“The World's Best Piano” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. 

Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. 

Knabe Warerooms 209-211 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va. 

H. C. Larzelere, Prop. 

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars. 

Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N. C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President. H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.