ATHLETIC NEWS

NEW APPOINTMENTS MADE IN R. O. T. C.
Class for Officers and Non-Coms to be Held Monday Nights.

In order to fill the vacancies caused by some of the officers and non-commissioned officers not returning to the battalion after the holidays, and also to weed out some who were not as efficient as they should be, Colonel Mueller has made the following appointments: Lieutenant McCaskill to be captain; Second Lieutenant Doubles to be first lieutenant; Second Lieutenant Phillips to be first lieutenant; First Sergeant Hunter to be second lieutenant; Sergeant Spence to be second lieutenant; Supply Sergeant Liston to be color sergeant, and First Lieutenant Romefelt to be battalion adjutant. These new officers have already taken command and are doing their bit towards making the Davidson R. O. T. C. the best in the South.

In the afternoon Lieutenant Romefelt is conducting a class in bayonet work. It is the purpose of this class to prepare a few men so that they can give the instruction to the rest of the battalion. The course will extend over a week or two as it is essential that these men have a good knowledge of all phases of the work. Those attending this class are Doubles, Roddey, Mitchell, Sample, Rogers, McFadden, Breitenhert, Wry, McCaskill, Phillips, Spence, Richards, J. G., Richards, J. M., Boulware, Davis, A. J., and Hunter.

In order that the officers and non-coms may be better prepared on the work for each drill, Colonel Mueller has instituted a class for the officers, first sergeants, and platoon sergeants. This class is to meet every Monday night in the military room in the gymnasium, and all those concerned are expected to be present.

VIRGINIA BASKETBALL TRIP CANCELLED
“Flu” Epidemic the Cause—Balance of Schedule to be Played, if Possible.

On account of the influenza epidemic, Manager Allison had to cancel quite a number of games. Last week was to have been a basketball week, but three of the four games were cancelled, Auburn, Guilford, and Elon being the ones. The trip through Virginia has also been called off.

The Red and Black Quint is anxious to get another chance at some of the colleges that they lost to on the trip. As the games with Guilford and Elon were cancelled, another date will be fixed on which to play them. A third game will be played with Carolina. At present, each team has one game apiece, and this third game is expected to be the most exciting of the season. It will probably be played at Greensboro; the place has not been definitely decided. As the trip through Virginia was cancelled, plans are being made to play several games with the Charlotte Y. Charlotte has a strong team and no doubt these will be close contests. The team is looking forward to the trip through South Carolina. This trip will be made in about two weeks.

Lyceum Number for This Week Cancelled.

Due to the presence of “flu” it has become necessary to cancel the Lyceum attraction which was to have come off February 12. The management will endeavor to secure an attraction in place of the cancelled number at some later date. On March 12th, Packard the Cartoonist will be here and on March 20th, Reno the Magician. Those holding Lyceum tickets have something to which they can look forward with pleasure.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

The program for the joint meeting of the two sections of the Eumenean Literary Society to be held on Saturday, February 14, 1920, is as follows:

Affirmative:
Askew
Ogden
Mellwaine

Negative:
Mahood
Bitzer
Matthews

After the debate, new officers will be elected.

PROF. FULLBRIGHT LECTURES ON LITERARY VALUE OF THE BIBLE

At the last meeting of the Sigma Upsilon, Professor Fullbright spoke. His subject was “The Literary Value of the Bible.” He showed in his speech that the Bible contained some of the finest expressions of literary talent that could be found in the world today. Some of our finest poetry is found in Psalms. The finest epigram in Proverbs and the sayings of Christ. He closed by showing that the Bible could not only be prized because of its hope of salvation, but because of its literary use. All the members enjoyed his talk very much. At the next meeting, criticisms will be held on the Davidson College Magazine and a few current books and stories.

EU.’S INSTALL OFFICERS PHI’S FAIL TO MEET
Many Boys Absent on Account of Sickness—Live Meeting in Eu. Society.

The meeting of the Eumenean Society on February 7 was interesting and lively, despite the fact that many members were absent. The question for debate, “Resolved, That the Bible should be taught in the public schools of America,”required, of course, somewhat different treatment by the two sides. The affirmative relied upon eloquence and persuasion to carry their side, while the negative depended more on reason and argument. Baba, of the affirmative, opened the debate with a plea for the Bible, based on its literary excellence. Price, the next speaker for the affirmative, asserted that he had six points to prove. But he based his argument mainly on the one proposition that the Bible was the foundation of all society, law, and ethics, and maintained that the foundation deserved as honored a place as the structure based upon it. The last speaker for the affirmative, Gamble, overlooked the rules of debate which prohibit quoting the Bible. He referred repeatedly to passages in the Bible, presenting them as authority. The first speaker of the negative was Meng. He showed that teaching the Bible in the public schools would be, in spirit and principles, contrary to the constitution. H. H. Smith, the second speaker for the negative, held up for consideration the low estimate which public school pupils would place upon the Bible, were it made a textbook. Sorrels had been appointed on the negative at the last minute, and delivered the final speech. He argued that it would be impossible to find teachers who could teach the Bible in a manner satisfactory to everyone; no Protestant would be willing to have his children taught the Bible by atheists, Jews, or Catholics, and vice versa. The decision of the judges was in favor of the negative. The program closed with an oration by R. R. Craig on “America’s Place in the World Today.”

The new officers were then installed, but the inaugural addresses were postponed, in order that the society might be able to attend the basketball game.

Monday Night

The Monday night section of the Eumenean Society held its regular meeting in the society hall at the usual hour. The subject which was debated was: “Resolved, That the Bible should be taught in the Public Schools.” On account of the disturbance caused by the influenza, the attendance was not large. Those present looked quite conspicuous among so many vacant seats.

The argument for the affirmative was upheld by Manning and Houghton, while the negative side was defended by Mauze, T. W., and McAlpine. Mr. Manning contended that the question was a most practical one, while on the contrary, Mr. Mauze took the law into his hands and stated the unconstitutionality of the proposal. Also, in turn, Mr. Houghton stated the fact that the Bible was used in all state affairs and that people in general do not understand the Bible in the proper light. Therefore, it should be placed on the curriculum of instruction in public schools. All this, only to be contradicted by Mr. McAlpine upon the statement that the Bible is too complicated a book, both historical and literary, to give pupils of public school age sufficient instruction in the subject. The committee appointed to weigh the merits of the debate, after considerable deliberation, agreed that the affirmative argument consumed more time, but that neither side had proved anything. The house showed its disapproval by favoring the negative.

Mr. Hollandworth gave the second installment of his series of A. E. I. speeches. His subject this time was “Pershing’s Own.” Due to the neglect of the president in not appointing a critic till late in the program, and at that time appointing Mr. Hollandworth, proved quite amusing. He criticized his own oration, and after a few remarks thoroughly convinced himself (it seems) and also the audience that without doubt his was by far the best speech of the evening.

The society, after attending to a little business, adjourned, much to the relief of all present.

Miss Rena Potts has returned to her work in Bishopville, Ga. She has been visiting for several weeks with relatives here and has just recently made a trip to Baltimore and New York.

Reliable Equipment
—FOR—
Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing, and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42d St., New York City.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

PROGRAM
ACADEMY
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, February 12, 13, and 14
OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
THE GLOCKERS
Novelty Comedy Offering
WILLING & JORDAN
Classy Song Couple
At the Piano
NED NORWORTH & CO.
Clever Trio of Comedy Entertainers
BELLE MONTROSE & CO.
Eccentric Comedy Act
The MINIATURE REVUE
The Last Word in Animated Automatons
STIEFF PIANO USED