THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920.

PLAY TENNIS OR WITH PEANUT PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc.
Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing.
Send for catalog, A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.
Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.
Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“For sixty days the college pumps have been running day and night without getting the tank as much as 1-4 full.” Why don't they take the cover off it?

“I cannot bear to go,” said he, “Nor I to have it so,” said she. Her father then came in the door. He tarried not a moment more.

With the boarding houses closing down like they have been doing in the past few days it might truly be said of many a student that he “don't know where his next meal is coming from.”

Prohibition prohibits the poor man at any rate. With prices quoted at $16 per quart, terranean sea-sickness is just about as expensive as the marine variety.

Spring styles of Sears, Roebuck catalogues have arrived. Certain Seniors announce that their search through this Bi-Annual publication failed to reveal Dips among the articles advertised. Again they have thrown themselves upon the mercy of the faculty. “We who are about to flunk salute thee.”

Cautiously our hero raised his head but swiftly ducked under cover. It was the first time since he joined the R. O. T. C., that he would admit that he was really terrified. He thought of his friends: of the boys with whom he had lived: but for their sakes he would not do it: he called to mind the girls—that one girl; but for her sake he would not do it: he thought of the faculty, ah, for their sake he WOULD do it. So he piled out of bed and went to chapel last Monday morning.

The Tragedy of a Freshman.
He heard the chapel bell ring fast. (Friends, this was Monday morning past). Swearing with sullen roar, He threw himself upon the floor. The wind howled in the window cracks And found him frozen in his tracks.

A Few Valentines We Did Not Send to Girls at Sister Institutions ‘Cause We Didn't Have The Nerve.

Queens:
Don't let these things surprise you
Whatever I may say just remember in the year
There’s only one such day.

Converse:
There may be other girls in the world for me but I hope you’ll never let me try to find them.

Mitchell:
If I flunk philosophy because I wrote this instead of studying, philosophy itself will justify me in setting aside a minor obligation for a major one.

Normal:
Lots of folks send valentines
To almost anyone
But if you ain’t my valentine
I don’t want none.

Peace:
Its kinder funny but every time Valentine’s day comes around I always think of you.

Agnes Scott:
Its a good thing you don’t like me as well as I do you ‘cause if you did the rolling-pin stuff would

DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, bankers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, clergymen, by successful men and women the world over. ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN? The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer. 400,000 Vocabulary Terms. 2700 pages. 6000 Illustrations. Colored Plates. 30,000 Geographical Subjects. 12,000 Biographical Entries. Regular and India-Paper Editions. Write for Specimen Pages, Free, a set of Pocket Maps if you name this paper.begin pretty soon. 

Flora McDonald: I never fully realized just how lovely you were until I saw you.

Brenau: If you were where you are and I where I wish I was, then we would be some miles nearer each other than separates us now.

Chicora: I used to think of you sometimes; now I think of you all the time, and when I'm not thinking of you, I'm thinking what I will think the next time I begin thinking of you.

G.C. W.: Just a calendar for next week:
Sunday 15 X
Monday 16 X
Tuesday 17 X
Wednesday 18 X
Thursday 19 X
Friday 20 X
Saturday 21 X
Just a calendar of next week with the days I'd like to hear from you marked thusly X.

Vanderbilt, (Co-ed Department): I'm glad you never asked me just how much you love me because I'm not exactly prepared to say. Neither can I tell you the precise size of infinitude nor the accurate length of eternity.

The line-up of the soph football team has in it the name of a Mr. “Camel”—they must indeed expect him to get a hump on.

WEEKLY FASHION NOTE.
Discriminating dressers will take note that Gordon McKeldin wears a four-button vest this season—if yours has too many buttons, cut one off—preferably the one just below the top button.

Things you can’t stop after you start:
1. Rolling off of the Chambers roof.
2. Meeting the Absence Committee.
3. Telling a girl you love her.
4. Unrolling an R.O.T.C. wrap legging.

Thompson and Alabama Long had been discussing Junior chemistry. Long was reading a paragraph which, to say the least, was expressed (S.S.) in very technical terms. When he concluded, Fresh Whiteside inquired: “Say fellows, is that Latin?”

Fresh Redding, gazing in fire: “Just think it's 80 more weeks till we go home.”

Hunter, '23 also: “You poor simp, there’s only 72 weeks in a year.”

As Fresh Manze I. went forth into the rain unhatted, Hyland inquired, “Why haven’t you got on your hat?”

“The doctor told me to keep my head cool to keep off the ‘flu.’”

Joe Henry has been unanimously elected mascot of the Fresh class.

In Conclusion draws nigh:
Oh, it’s nice to be a Senior,
Or a Junior with a “rep.”
But to get out of orations
I'd gladly be a prep!
—Blue Stocking.

(as Speaking)

“FLU” CAUSES CLOSE OF ANOTHER BOARDING HOUSE

“Smiley” has been doing a rushing business since three boarding houses were forced to close down temporarily on account of flu. Mrs. Barnes was the first to close down, and she was followed soon by Mrs. White and Mrs. Manning. The fellows had to act quickly to find a place to eat. Several of them went to other boarding houses and filled places made vacant by boys going home to wait for the epidemic to blow over. The rest of them are eating at “Smiley’s.” As yet, no one has suffered any hardship on account of the change, but an early recovery of the sick ones in the respective boarding houses is desired by all.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

L.A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES
FRUITS, ETC.

THEY WIN IN A WALK

We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box—single or double breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

See me for your feeds
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
34 S. Tryon
WHITE'S MARKET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 25-W.
Cornelius, N.C.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for your work. Give us a trial. Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643