THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920. 7

Alumni News

Rev. J. C. Story, of Marion, N. C., stopped over on his way home from the meeting of Concord Presbytery
to pay a short visit to his sons, Samuel, '22, and Joe, '24.

Among the pictures in “From Far Japan,” for January, just received, are those of Rev. I. Stuart McElroy, ex-'12, with
his wife and baby, Jessie Woodrow. In the same magazine are articles from J. Harper Brady, '12, and A. P.
Hassell, '12, with a notice of the birth of a little daughter to Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Hassell, who
are located in Tokushima.

The mumps just won't go. Seems like it has the “number” of a good many fellows. F. Cassell has a
genuine case of it, and the baseball squad is minus a cracking good shortstop for some days to come.

The announcement has been made of the engagement of J. Leslie Bell, ex-'12, of Concord, the wedding to be in
May.

Mrs. Robson says that A. G. Robson, who was carried to an infirmary in Charlotte last week, is doing as
well as could be expected.

Rev. L. E. Wells, '95, has moved from Teacheys to Derita, N. C.

D. H. Watkins, '03, is going to erect a new, up-to-date dairy plant on the corner of Fourth and Caldwell
streets, in Charlotte, N. C.

Rev. H. C. Carmichael, '10, has moved from Burlington, N. C., to R. F. D. 10, Charlotte, N. C.

CAMPUSISMS.

Mr. E. C. Wilson, of the Industrial Department of the International Y. M. C. A., spent a few days on
the “Hill” last week in the interest of his work.

Rev. Clarendon Ervin, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at the Glade Valley School, Glade Valley, N. C., was a visitor
last week.

Rev. T. H. Spence, Sr., visited his son, T. H., Jr., last week. Mr. Spence (Sr.) assisted in the chapel
exercises of Friday morning.

Mr. Ira B. Dunlap and family, of Rock Hill, motored over to the Davidson-Wake Forest game. With Mr. and Mrs.
Dunlap was Mrs. W. J. Roddey, also of Rock Hill.

Dr. Martin, president of the college, has returned from a short business trip which carried him to Atlanta, Ga.

The Finleys, track “studs” of former days, motored over to the Davidson-A. & E. track meet Friday. The “Mauds,” Big
and Little (?), were accompanied by “Rob” Cochran, ex-'22.

Dr. Richards attended the meetings of Concord Presbytery at Newton, N. C., last week.

REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

GREEN RIVER

THE SNAPPY LIME DRINK

GREEN RIVER is different from any other drink you have ever tasted. It has a distinctive flavor all its own—one
that pleases and thoroughly satisfies. Served with either plain water at all soda fountains. You'll like it. Ask for it
today.

SCHOENHOFEN COMPANY
CHICAGO

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Margaret Blythe spent the week-end with her aunt, Mrs. Rutledge Withers, and her sister, Miss Mary Blythe.

Mr. and Mrs. John Hill will soon be in their new home on South Main street.

Miss Mary Lafferty has returned home after spending the winter in Charlotte with her nephew, Dr. Robert Lafferty. Miss Sallie
Lafferty, who is now with relatives in Miami, Fla., is expected to arrive in the near future.

Miss Jonsie Shelton has given up her work as teacher on account of bad eyes.

Mr. Little, of Charlotte, has recently bought the Davidson Candy Kitchen from Mr. Patterson, of Mooresville.

Mrs. M. E. Manning returned Friday from a week's visit in Clarksville, Va., where she was called to her mother,
Mrs. B. H. Easley, who was critically ill. Mrs. Easley's friends in Davidson will be glad to know that she
is much improved.

Misses Mary Richards and Elizabeth Grey spent the week-end in their respective homes.

The Misses Schofield, who are now on an extended visit in Virginia, are expected home within the coming week.

Mr. and Mrs. E. K. Thomas, who have been residing in Charlotte, are going to move to Cleveland, Ohio, early
in May. Mrs. Thomas’ sister, Miss Willie Henderson, will accompany them.

Knox and Barnette
General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents Furnishings

A FULL LINE OF PARKER “LUCKY CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED

A New Line of
Schloss Bros. Clothing

S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

Printed and Engraved
Business Cards and Announcements.

We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS.

Queen City Printing Co.
14 E. 4th St
Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

New Spring Suits
From the shops of
"Society Brand"

Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection. Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc.

The new Straw Hats are here.

Tryon at 4th Street

Good as a new Frame and one coat of Re-Nu-Lac did the trick. But not for Frames alone, for anything
that needs refinishing use Re-Nu-Lac. A small can assures a big saving at a small cost. Ask for Color Cards.

M. H. Goodrum & Co.
