THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920

Athletic News

Coach Hengeveld Accorded Warm Welcome by His Alma Mater
To Coach Basketball and Baseball Teams This Spring

Davidson is indeed fortunate in having secured Mr. Fred Hengeveld, better known to the student body as “Dutch,” to take
charge of her basketball and baseball teams for this spring. Dutch entered Davidson in the fall of 1914 and for
four years made good his position on the basketball and baseball teams. In his last year, he served as captain
of the nine. As Varsity center, Dutch has had few equals and no superiors in the history of basketball at
Davidson. Not only was his jumping unusually good, but in his shooting of goals, he won a name for himself
throughout the Carolinas and Virginia. In baseball, his pitching was one of the main factors in Davidson's success during the
four years which he remained. A heavy hitter, as well as a remarkably fine twirler, Captain Hengeveld was hailed during
his last year at Davidson as the premier college pitcher of the South. Since graduating in ’18, Dutch has been
one of the regulars of the Little Rock Club of the Southern League, and he has made an enviable reputation
for himself there. It was with a sense of sincere regret that the student body learned of Pete Crayton’s decision
to resign his position as coach, but it is with real pleasure that it sees Coach Hengeveld take his place.
Dutch can feel assured that every man in college is backing him to the limit as he takes up his
new duties among us.

Three Letter Men Back in Basketball--Prospects Good
Many New Men Out Through Stiff Workout

Shenck and Chalmers, both of whom are good players, but it seems that several other fellows want their place and
they are going to have to work to hold them. Prep. Hall, the other varsity man, is right in the
game and doing good work and will no doubt be a great factor in bringing success to the Red and
Black quintet. There are only two last year’s subs, Brice and Doubles. They are both handling the ball with great
skill. Roberts, King, Price, Oltman, and Crawford, all of whom were stars in the class games last fall. It seems
that at least one of these men will get a place on the team. Romefelt, Johnson, Shepherd, and McAlister were
good in football and now they come to seek fame in the basketball world. They are going good and no
doubt about two of these men are going to find a place on the team before the year is out.
Coach Hengeveld is having to rush as he has to have his team in shape by Friday night at which
time they will meet the University of N.C. A New Year’s wish to the basketball quintet, “Success in every game.”

ALUMNI NEWS

Charlie Worth, who finished his work this fall, entered Union Seminary January 1. A. R. Craig and T. R. Alexander,
‘19, are starring on the Union Seminary basketball team this winter. They were also on the Seminary football team this
fall. Rev. R. H. Daffin, ‘03, spoke at both church services, the Y service, and several other times last Sunday.
F. D. Thomas, Jr., '10, is now preaching at Staunton, Pa., under the Northern Presbyterian Church. The Davidson Alumni Association
in Charlotte had a big banquet Tuesday night. Tom Payne, '14, has returned to Wilmington, N. C., with Alexander Sprunt
& Son. Mr. Payne has been in New York for the same firm since his return from France. A picture
was received this month from Shorty Williams and his wife. Shorty is accomplishing big things at the University of New
Mexico. Rev. R. S. Arrowood, '13, is now located at 201 Tate St., Greensboro. Rev. R. P. Smith, '73, Asheville,
N. C., will at an early date make a trip to Palestine. Messrs. H. K. Aiken, '17, and E. B.
Moore, ex-'20, are studying at Cornell University. Mr. Aiken spent a day on the campus last week.

Soph Basketball Team
The Winners in the Recent Class Basketball Series
Top row, Price and Roberts. Bottom row, Erwin, L., Doubles and Erwin, M.The basketball team came through the Class Basketball
series with a perfect average, winning all their games by a wide margin. Dutch Hengeveld, who we remember as a
star on the basketball floor and on the baseball diamond while in college here, is back this spring to coach.
All his attention will be given to basketball for a month or two. The first practice was called for last
Wednesday night at 8 o’clock, at which about twenty-five men showed up. Coach Hengeveld is glad to see that so
many are taking interest and are willing to help out. This large bunch could not be looked after at one
time on one floor, so Friday night the names of fifteen men were read out, who were to report for
regular practice every night. All other men can still go out in the afternoons from 3 to 5 o'clock, and
coach will be there to coach the same as at the other practice.

The record of the team is as follows:
Sophs 42 Seniors 20
Sophs 33 Freshmen 10
Sophs 36 Juniors 29
Sophs 30 Seniors 25
Sophs 44 Freshmen 19
Sophs 47 Juniors 27
Total 232 130

Roberts led the scoring for the championship team with 84 points, closely followed by Streibich with 70 and Doubles with
50 apiece. Roberts, left forward, was the man who dashed the hopes of the other teams by never getting less
than four baskets in any game. He is a very accurate shot and when he got his hands on the
ball near the basket it was good for two points. Doubles, the other forward, was always on the job. His
passing and shooting were good, and his defensive work helped materially to keep the score of the opposing team low.
Price, J. P. at right guard, broke up more passes and plays than any other member of the team. He
rarely ever let his man have a basket. His offensive work was good as evidenced by the number of baskets
he made. Erwin M. and Erwin L. alternated at left guard, both playing a good defensive game, making it hard
for the other team to score. Both of the guards contributed to the score, Price 18 points and Erwin 4
points.

After winning the series, the Soph team journeyed to Concord and were victorious. They defeated the Concord “Y” by a
score of 37 to 22, in a hard rough game. This team is probably the best class team that has
ever been turned out and it will go down in history as the team which never lost a game.

ARGONNE
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N. Y.
The name “Argonne” is used courtesy of the Argonne Shirt Co. Patented.

PLAY TENNIS
WITH Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY
The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing
FANCY GROCERIES and FRESH MEATS A SPECIALTY
A Full Line of Undertaking Supplies
See Us For Hardware and Farm Implements
Phone 85

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.
Agency 18 Watts
