THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

The Booklover’s Club will be entertained at the home of Mrs. J. R. Withers, Friday, October 15.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL & PAINT CO., Cleveland, O.

WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

FALL SPORTS
A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them. The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee of quality and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Player Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records. We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Western Theological Seminary
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Founded by the General Assembly 1825

A Seminary for College Graduates. A complete modern theological curriculum with elective courses leading to the degree of B.D. is offered to students of all denominations. Graduate courses of the University of Pittsburgh, leading to degrees of A.M., and Ph.D., are open to properly qualified students of the Seminary. Exceptional library facilities. Two entrance prizes of $150 each. Fellowship of $500. All buildings are new, with latest modern improvements. Social hall, gymnasium, and students’ commons. For information apply to President James A. Kelso, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D.

Pilchard: Atta Boy! Sam Brady learns in Greek VI class that Hermes carried the fair Calypso up the sacred Mount Olympus, fed her ambrosia, and nectar.

You Tell ’Em, Issy.
C. J.: "I can’t pay this bill here. You must bring it to my office.”
Bill collector: “Where do you stay, Mr. Matthews?”
C. J.: "I stay with McCaskill.”
Bill collector: “Where does Mr. McCaskill stay?”
C. J.: "He stays with me.”
Bill collector: “Well, where do you both stay?”
C. J.: "We stay together.”

How Many Inches in a Pound?
Military Instructor: "Mr. Clark, what is the weight of your pistol?”
J. Fitzhugh, alias “Rifle Rest”: “Two pounds seven inches, Sir.”

Haw, Haw.
Fresh Luckie brags that the girl who captured his heart will sure be a Luckie woman.

Quite Remarkable.
Prof.: "I see you have a wonderfully developed faculty for forgetting.”
Bone-head: "Yes, sir, Doctor, I remember quite well how my primary teacher used to tell me that, some fifteen years ago.”

Have you paid your subscription yet? Send those two bones in immediately! This is your last copy of “THE BEST COLLEGE WEEKLY” until we receive?

Quite So.
Prof.: "Now let me quiz some of you men who seem to be very ignorant on the subject. Ah—Mr. Sample, could you tell us something about sensation?”

A Bird Heard It.
Smitzer (in passionate tones): “Just one, dearest, just one.”
Bass voice from upstairs: “No, it's not just one, it is 2:00, and high time you were going, young fellow.”

Charlie, Lemme Help.
Chas. McCaskill, the movie magnet, had...The photoplay "Mary's Ankle" was engaged for the Saturday night before the fresh reception. On Saturday, however, it was decided to keep the picture until the fresh reception if possible, so Charlie wired the distributor—"May I hold 'Mary's Ankle' Monday night?" "You may hold 'Mary's Ankle' as requested," was the immediate and pleasing reply.

Use Judgment.
"Resolved, That a woman should be Sheriff" was the subject for extempore debate at Phi Society last Saturday. As an alternate subject, we suggest, "Resolved, That a hen should be a rooster."

Georgia Tech is like a baby—it doesn't know when it gets enough of a good thing.

They Are Green as Ever.
Fresh—"Where you going, baba?"
Ba ba (black sheep)—"Volunteer Band Meeting."
Fresh—"What do you play?"

Land Lover
"Ever see a man-eating shark?"
Old Salt—"No, but I’ve seen a shark eating man."

No Changing of Needles, Either.
Son—"Do they have self-starting talking machines?"
Pa—"Yes, I married one."
Ma—"Willie, go to bed at once."

Our Weekly Quiz.
What is the greatest filler of space?
Fresh—"Air."
Editor of Davidsonian—"The Peanut Parcher."
You are both right—air is correct. Mr. Cassel is, however, more exact. He gives the temperature.

But it Don’t Work.
Soph—"This hurts me worse than it does you."
Fresh—"Keep it up—I can stand it if you can."

We'll risk a bet that the Baptists are going to call for water Saturday.

Getting an Excuse a Skimpshun
(By the unraveler of the income tax procedure.)
I. Write your cook’s third husband seven years prior to the time absence is to happen.
II. Have the excuse made out in fifthlicate and stamped by a notorious republican.
III. Forward copies to the Bolshevik president and governor of Mt. Mourn for files.
IV. Ask Quija for its approval, and if o.k., then—
V. Tack it on the bulletin board for thirty days and salute when passing.
VI. Then send it to the laundry.
VII. Hang it out to dry.
VIII. Present it—you’ll have no trouble getting off. Not hard after you once see into it, is it?

If it should happen to come, Say it with Flowers
L. A. ELLIOTT SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

See me for your feeds
New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
At the Powerhouse
Frank Gregson, Mgr.
Agency

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK
"If you want it off, do not put it on"
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats—anything made of rubber.
Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S.C.
Wholesale Accessories

OUR NEW HOME
Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte, we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent