THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

STUDENT BODY DIRECTORY.

ANNUAL
C. H. Long, Editor-in-Chief.
C. M. McCaskill, Business Manager.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
B. W. Romefelt, President

DAVIDSONIAN
J. E. Cassell, Editor-in-Chief.
A. G. Oltman, Business Manager.

BASEBALL
J. R. Boulware, Manager.
W. H. Miley, Captain.

BASKETBALL
G. E. Miley, Manager.
L. B. Schenck, Captain.

DEBATING COUNCIL
J. C. McCaskill, Chairman.

EUMENEAN LITERARY SOCIETY
J. C. McCaskill, President.

FOOTBALL
J. C. McCaskill, Manager
L. O. Hammett, Captain.

JUNIOR CLASS
T. M. Lowry, President.

MAGAZINE
W. P. Cummings, Editor-in-Chief
A. M. Mitchell, Business Manager

MINISTERIAL BAND
F. V. Long, President.

PHILANTHROPIC LITERARY SOCIETY
C. G. Long, President

REPORTERS’ CLUB
A. M. Mitchell, President.

STUDENT BODY
A. L. Currie, President.

SENIOR CLASS
C. M. McCaskill, President.

SOPHOMORE CLASS
N. W. Shepard, President

VOLUNTEER BAND
D. W. Roberts, President.

Y.M.C.A.
L. B. Schenck, President.

The Hoover & Smith Co.
Fraternity and Watch Jewelers
Philadelphia, Penna.
615 Chestnut Street
WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

L. A. ELLIOTT
Candies, Fruits, Etc.
See me for your feeds

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President
The following departments are represented:
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.
Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments.
Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum.
For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

Sigma Upsilon Holds Excellent Meeting
Dr. Erwin Affiliates With Blue Pencil Club

The first meeting of Sigma Upsilon this year was called at nine o’clock last Wednesday night in the S. A.
E. Hall. The members for this year are Cumming, W. P., Walker, J. R., Mahood, D. R., McCaskill, C. M.,
Long, C. H., Cassell, J. E., Long, F. V. A new faculty addition to the roll was Dr. Erwin, professor
of English, who was a member of the Scribbler’s Chapter of Sigma Upsilon at Mississippi. After some business had been
brought up and disposed of, Joe Walker introduced the literary program of the evening by a talk on the mountaineers
of western North Carolina. The speaker was in very close contact with the peoples of this section last summer, and
his talk was filled with personal reminiscences which made it of especial interest to the readers. The next person to
“speak” was D. R. Mahood. Mahood did not speak at all, but led the entire audience into a spiritual discussion
of a much battered and maligned poet,—Walt Whitman. Finally, Dr. Erwin was called upon to deliver a verdict, and his
opinion was that Walt Whitman’s poetry was a strange and new type, but nevertheless was entitled to be called poetry.
The last to address the Sigma Upsilon was W. P. Cumming, who read a touching and saddening poem entitled, Eventide.
This poem was composed last summer while the author was drifting o’er the sunset-tinted waters of Deer Park Lake in
a birch canoe. The poem begins with praise of the glorious attributes of morning, but goes on to show the
fuller riches of human bliss and happiness to be found at eventide. The serious part of the evening being declared
ended, everyone adjourned to a heavily laden table, which drove dull care away to the tune of popping dope bottles
and choice selections of Miss Vinnie’s sandwiches and cake.

NEW LAUNDRY BEGINS OPERATION:
Well Equipped Plant to Serve Davidson Students

A modern, up-to-date laundry has been erected just behind Georgia Dormitory. It is a large one-story brick building, with concrete
floors and 14 windows. These furnish a very nice working house with plenty of fresh air. The equipment is composed
of one large, two-compartment washer, one one-hundredth inch ironer, three presses together with electric irons, bleaching jars, soap tanks, and
other equipment that is ordinarily found in an up-to-date steam laundry. This equipment will fully cover the present needs of
the college. A space has been reserved for an additional washer. At present, thereis no limit as to the amount
of clothes a student is allowed to have laundered. The patrons should be careful not to leave any jewelry or
cards in their laundry. On account of delayed shipment of some of the equipment, the laundry did not open until
Wednesday morning, Sept. 15. However, by Friday night all clothes were assorted and ironed. The assorting and marking took some
extra time but they all were delivered by Saturday afternoon. One half of the students will take their laundry on
Monday morning and call for the same Wednesday afternoon. The others will leave clothes on Wednesday morning and call for
the same Saturday afternoon. Mr. H. P. Helper is the manager of the laundry and will do all he can
to please the students.

Have you paid your subscription yet? Send those two bones in immediately! This is your last copy of “THE BEST
COLLEGE WEEKLY” until we receive!

This Year’s Magazine to be Best Ever Goes to Press October 15—New Men Urged to Contribute

“We are going to make the Davidson College Magazine the best Magazine in the South.” This is the unanimous purpose
of the members of the Magazine staff as announced at the close of their initial meeting held last Thursday night
when plans for the following year were discussed. The make-up of the Magazine is to be changed from that of
former years. The new publication will be about the size of “Life” and contain forty pages of three columns each.
An attractive cover design is now being prepared by local artists. All the staff has not yet been selected, but
the following are at the head of their respective departments: W. P. Cumming, Editor-in-Chief; J. R. Boulware, assistant editor and
acting essay editor; W. J. Cooper, fiction editor; D. R. Freeman, poetry editor; D. L. Mahood, exchange editor. A. M.
Mitchell is the business manager.

It is especially urged that all new men who have any prize essays, stories, or poems, contribute them for the
first issue. The college magazine always reflects the best literary lights of the college, and it is the duty of
every student to support this publication to the best of his ability, both in interest and in contributions. In order
to stimulate a greater interest in the Magazine, Dr. Shewmake, head of the English department, announces that credit will be
given for all articles accepted by the magazine. This should prove a further inducement for the students to put forth
their best literary efforts. The first issue goes to press October the fifteenth. Hand your articles to the editors now
and help get the magazine out on schedule time.

C. A. Moss, '23, has left college. It is understood that Moss intends to enter Wofford College which is more
convenient, as he lives in Spartanburg.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through
the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
At the Powerhouse Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Agency Frank Gregson, Mgr.
New Central

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

What will make me flunk? You know the necessary percentages for school and what satisfaction it is to surpass them.
High Art Tailored-to-Measure Clothes from Strouse & Brothers, Inc. won’t let you flunk in your personal appearance. The percentage attained
is as close to perfection as human ingenuity can build anything individually. Start Right, with your personal appearance in the
passing list—have your Clothes tailored for YOU only by Macamac Company
“At the Powerhouse”
Davidson College
Davidson, N.C.
