Welcome. Visitors

THEDA a am SONIA BOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 26, 1920. No. 12

THE WILDCAT MINSTREL.

Plans are now completed for the presentation of the Wildcat Minstrel next Saturday night in Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock. This minstrel promises to be one of the best entertainments ever given in Davidson.

The program of the minstrel is to be divided into three numbers. The first number will consist of the regular semi-circle with the interlocutor and end men, together with several jokes, both old and new, and a variety of classical and jazzy songs. C. H. Long will be the interlocutor. F. N. Thompson, V. D. Johnson, R. L. McLeod, and W. H. Bogart will officiate as end men. The members of the quartet are Charlie Vance, W. B. Carr, Frank Law, and W. T. Jones. This quartet is expected to be one of the most enjoyable features of the evening’s entertainment.

The second part of the program will consist of instrumental and dance numbers. The terpsichorean art will be very energetically demonstrated at this juncture.

The third and last part of the program will consist of a short play entitled “A See-Saw Seance,” starring Madame Jo-Jo, the famous dusky medium. Everybody is cordially invited to attend and an evening of hilarious entertainment is guaranteed. The tickets are 50 and 75 cents and may be obtained at White's Drug Store, on Friday afternoon from 4:00 to 5:00 o'clock. The proceeds of the minstrel will be devoted to some worthy cause by the decision of the entire student body.

Juniors Cinch Championship in Class Basketball

Seniors Continue in Hard Luck, Losing All Games by Less Than Nine Points

N. C. State Freshmen Scrubs Outplay Opponents—Lose Victory by Intercepted Pass—Both Sides Unable to Kick Goal

Last week the Scrubs took their first trip of the season, journeying over to Pinehurst, where they played the N. C. State Freshmen team in the first football game of such size in that immediate section of the State. It took place on the grounds of the Sand Hill Fair, proving to be the biggest drawing card of the fair, as an enthusiastic crowd of over 2,500 people witnessed the struggle. Though the Wildkittens outplayed their opponents throughout practically the entire game, the breaks went against them and the game ended in a 6-6 tie score. The two teams were about evenly matched in weight, but the Scrubs were handicapped by the fact that they had been compelled to travel up until two hours before the game itself, while the A. & E. players had the benefit of a full night’s rest before taking the field.

The Scrubs won the toss and elected to receive. During the first half the ball see-sawed up and down the field with no apparent advantage to either side. In the first frame, however, Davidson threatened to score by getting to State's 20-yard line by steady, aggressive playing, only to lose the ball there on a fumble. From then on during the first half neither goal was in danger of being invaded. Up until this stage of the game the Freshmen had made most of their gains through the line.

At the beginning of the second half the State yearlings received but were unable to make more than two yards in three downs, and were forced to kick. Joe Walker placed the ball on the 50-yard line by returning the punt 15 yards, and on the next play “Nappy” Davis went over right tackle for 30 additional units on the way to State's goal line. The Wildkittens were out for blood then and made first down by line bucks, putting the ball on A. & E.'s 10-yard limit. Here the State aggregation (Continued on page 8)

Juniors 36; Sophs 23.

Before a well-packed gymnasium, and showing a complete reversal of form since the last game with the Fresh, the ’22 quintet completely routed their formidable foe, '23, 36 to 23 last Wednesday night. Not only were the Sophs routed but their chances towards class champions were badly shattered. All hopes for the Sophs were exploded in the first half when the superfine of the Junior class launched an attack, led by Captain Doubles and running mate, Ormond, which completely swept the Sophs off their feet. Free access to the basket was given the above numerous times. The Sophs, with Mauze out of the game due to an injury, were greatly handicapped, but fought gamely throughout the entire contest. At frequent intervals the game took the form of a tug-of-war contest, but barring this it was a well-played game. Fouls abounded on both sides and at the final whistle Captain Crawford had one more foul goal to his credit than Ormond. The Sophs tried vainly to stage a comeback in the second half, with Brake scoring three successive goals. Their efforts suddenly halted, though, when the Juniors, putting to a good advantage the other side of the comeback theory, tightened up on their defense and from (Continued on page 5)

This Year’s Tennis Champions.

They are (reading from left to right): Cunningham, Bradley, Morris, Ormond.

Scrubs Battle to Tie With Individual Write-Ups of Tennis Team Merrily in Shearer Hall

S. H. Bradley.

Hugh Bradley is the best all-round tennis player of our quartet. His smashing serves and backhand Lawfords seem very difficult to return, judging from the reports brought back from Elon and Trinity. He won both single matches, one from the Elon captain and next day took the single match from the Trinity captain. Hugh is a member of the class of '23, so we have two more years to watch him mow down those who are ambitious.

A. C. Ormond, Jr.

Curtis Ormond has proven himself to be a racket artist of the best quality. No matter what the score may be, he plays the same old consistent game of tennis that soon wears a flashy player out. Curtis proved his worth in helping win both the double events from Trinity and Elon. Next spring our dependence will fall largely on his stalwart shoulders to turn inVictories that will lead to the state championship. C. E. Cunningham. Ed. Cunningham has an individual style of playing tennis known to very few. He never fails to return the most terrific serve. At all times he is on the alert and no matter where the ball is placed, Ed is right on the spot ready to send it smashing across the net into the other fellow's territory. Only two men made the trip on account of limited finances, so he did not have a chance to show his abilities.

H. M. Morris. Another man who made the team but failed to make the trip was Morris. His serving was the best seen in the tournament this year. The wicked cuts he put across the net were next to impossible to get back. He plays consistently and works like a Trojan. Next spring Morris will be one of the four who are going to trounce every team in the state.

Mrs. Vinson and Miss Maude Vinson returned last week from an extended visit to Dr. Porter Vinson, '09, who is on the staff of the Mayo Hospital at Rochester, Minnesota.

P. C. Springs Surprise by Besting Davidson, 7-0
Blue-Stockings Turn Trick by Forward Pass in Last Few Minutes of Play

Presbyterian College of South Carolina defeated Davidson, Saturday, 7 to 0. The touchdown was made in the last quarter by McMillan, who received a pass from Sholar and ran 30 yards for the score. Before and after this, the game was a hard fight, with the crippled Davidson players on the defense most of the time. From the time Kirven received the first kick-off from Davidson, the Blue Stockings were full of fight and the eternal desire for that game. They fought hard and the victory was theirs as a result of the hard work that they put into the game.

The Wildcats started the game with three regulars out of the backfield and Faison taking Schenck’s place at end. Under this handicap, the team played the first quarter. Then Cassell and McFadden were put in for the rest of the route. Most of Davidson's gains were made after P. C. made their touchdown. After that score, the Wildcats made their only first downs, two in number. From the punch which the team exhibited during this quarter, it seems unfortunate that the South Carolinians did not score early in the game. The spurt was too late for a counter, however, and the game ended without a point to the credit of Davidson.

Although Presbyterian College kept the ball in their opponents’ territory most of the time, the final effort was lacking and had not the pass been used at the last, the game would have ended in a scoreless tie. Nine first downs were made by them, however, so their offense was working to some extent at any rate. Line bucks and short end runs were relied on by both teams. Very few forward passes were attempted, although the successful one made by P. C. turned the tide in that fateful final quarter. None of the long gains of the Carolina games were in evidence. This probably made the spectators long for a spectacular dash, and it was finally given them by McMillan after catching that pass.

Davidson entered the game the favorites and were certainly expecting victory. The unexpected strength of the Blue Stockings had an unusual effect on the Wildcats, who only realized the need of greater effort late in the game. There were no particular stars resulting from the contest, but Davidson's line, which has such a record this fall, showed that a touchdown through them is only made by the major teams of the South. They were threatened several times but succeeded in holding on each occasion. A large crowd attended the battle on the Clinton field. Many Davidson supporters were present to see the first win.

(Continued on page 8)

Photo by McIlwaine.

Tyrolean Singers Yodel
Last Lyceum Number Before Christmas Proves a Great Success

Mrs. Otto Fiechtl’s Tyrolean Yodlers delighted a responsive audience in Shearer Hall last Tuesday evening. Mrs. Fiechtl's company appeared as the fourth number of the Redpath Lyceum course, and is the last that will appear before Christmas. The most important features of the program were the Alpine yodel songs. In these, the company excelled. Particularly effective was the rendition of the “Echo Yodel,” in imitation of the echoes of the deep Tyrolean Valleys. One of the members on the stage would yodel the refrain—soon, as if an echo, a member off-stage, would reply. The illusion was well nigh perfect. Continuing in vocal numbers, the company gave an example of the “Party Songs” of old Switzerland that was interesting. The procedure is this: A tune selected, the leader starts with a stanza about something, he having finished, the song is taken up by the party on his right, and so on. Before the end is reached, the thought can wander considerably.

Just as effective as the vocal numbers were the selections given on the concert-zither and the zithern. The concert-zither is the big brother of the accordion-zither that everybody has seen. The zithern is a curious instrument somewhat resembling the violin. When to be played, it is rested on a table and the bow is then worked over the strings from the left upward in exact reverse of the method employed with the violin. A rendition of an old-fashioned polka by the zithists in duet seemed to please the audience most.

The whole show would have fallen down but for the work of Gaspaid, basso extraordinary and comedian. Gaspaid is a whole show in himself. His antics in the concert numbers enlivened many a dreary moment; his jokes, though somewhat old, were given with a will and an enticing little accent that caused...

(Continued on page 8)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Thursday—10:30 a. m.: Thanksgiving Service at Presbyterian Church.
3:00 p. m.: Davidson vs. Furman, Manly Field, Greenville, S. C.
7:00 p. m.: Movies: Hobart Bosworth in “Behind the Door.”

Friday—6:45 p. m.: Davidsonian Reporters’ Club meeting.

Saturday—7:30 p. m.: The Wildcat Minstrel, Shearer Hall.

Sunday—10:00 a. m.: Bible Classes.
6:15 p. m.: “Y” Service.

Monday—6:45 p. m.: Junior Literary Societies.

GOODBYE PIGSKIN--HELLO BASKETBALL!