THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

Oh, I'd like to see the story
Of a girl who used no paint,
Whose hair belonged to her alone,
As the cases mostly ain’t.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Ah, yes the tale must picture her
With no artificial curl.
Oh, I'd like to see the story,
But I'd rather see the girl.

If we had many rains like those of last Friday the ocean would soon be backed up to this place.

You've got to be a darn good guesser
Or else have pull with the professor
To pass a ticket without studying.

Hypothetical College Doctor—“Yes, there is something seriously wrong with your foot. I'll operate on it.”

Hypothetical College Student—“If it's all the same with you, Doctor, I'd rather have you operate on my shoe: the trouble
is there’s a tack in it.”

How magicians do a trick!
You'll generally address him:
“Shut up, you lunatic.”

But if it be a maiden
Who tortures you this way,
“You sure are awful clever”
Is about all you’d say.

They came. We went. We saw. They conquered.

A music-lovers club was organized immediately after the concert last week. Joe Walker, since he counted the ballots, was of
course elected president. The purpose of the club is to get front seats at all musical entertainments held on the
hill, or rather stage of Shearer Chapel.

This paragraph is inserted here solely for the purpose of avoiding the publication of something which we do not desire
to print, namely: two items of verse together.

She loved me and the sky was azure
Indeed a most delightful hue.
She ceased. The color’s not so pleasing,
For I myself am very blue.

They might have called the G. C. W. Concert a musical attraction but it wasn’t the music that attracted the
430 members of the student body.

We get a-plenty
Kiser—“Plenty of what?”
Party of the First Part—“Water.”

Prominent Senior after pre-beginning selections by pianist—“Say fellows I don’t care whether the rest of them come or not if
this’ll just keep up.”

Crip—The popular conception of what it is to prepare the contents of this column for public consumption each week.

Pitts Douglas (As the inimitable flavors like the pyramids of Egypt? Because they are long-lasting. And WRIGLEY’S is a beneficial
as well as long-lasting treat. It helps appetite and digestion, keeps teeth clean and breath sweet, allays thirst.

CHEW IT AFTER EVERY MEAL
Sealed Tight—Kept Right

Mary ascends to top of house with large basket—“What's she going up there for; to get clothes?”
Fresh McLauren—“Probably to pick strawberries from the roof garden.”

The youth stood still within his shoes,
She asked him why he sighed.
“I hate the flavor of your rouge.”
That thoughtful lad replied.

WATTS WATER CARNIVAL
Everything Comes Off Swimmingly, Knights of Bath Festivate. Great Triumph for Wets.

“Watch Watts” makes, not only a good headline for Bible class news, but also an excellent admonition for all who
are forced to pass near that structure these days. The spring drowning season has opened and Watts did the uncorking
when their Water Carnival was pulled off last week.

It was a case of uncivilized civil war. Roommate would lean out of one window to soak someone on an
inferior floor only to be coronated by Roommate no. 2 from another window of the same room. It was heartrending
the way in which paper bags were wasted. Local merchants are expecting the prices of such articles of warfare to
rise as a result.

Henry Massey, the shrewd inventor of theSecond floor, was the brains of the conflict. With mirror-scope and periscope he endeavored
to cope with his adversaries, but since his hat was destroyed in the opening moments it was of no avail.
Among those also present were Captain Chink Wilkinson, the ace supreme of pot shots; Tufts, the wielder of the 10
qt. bucket; Sloan, the flashy freshman who lent tone to the affair; and others. Pap Askew and Poetic Hawkins were
in the reviewing stand. As the new staff sees it: “Ring out the false, Ring in the true.” But we
may remark: “The order changeth, old things giving place to new, Lest one good custom should corrupt the world. Do
You. I have loved you all the time, but now I’ll love you all the more, And I shall love
you all the same. Long may I love you all—you four.”

Fresh: “I wanter light.”
J. Eris: “40 Watts?”
Fresh: “No, 40 Chambers.”

Save money when you refinish furniture and woodwork yourself with Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC. No matter how badly scratched your doors,
floors, or furniture, you can easily restore them with one coat of Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC. The cost is small, the
results great. It comes in all sizes, from 15¢ up. Made in 20 Natural Wood and Enamel Colors, White, Gold,
and Silver. PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., Inc. Louisville, Ky.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

LETTERS AWARDED.

Love and War Special.

The 1920 basketball letter awards have finally been announced and the fortunate beings are as follows: W. R. W. Roberts
and W. M. Hall, forwards; F. F. Streibich and B. W. Romefelt, centers; S. D. Brice, D. M. Chalmers, and
L. B. Schenck, guards. These men have developed into a smooth working combination which had no peers when it was
running good. However, unfortunately, Schenck was put out of the game at the beginning of the season by injuries and
was not able to re-enter the game during the remainder of the season. Despite this handicap, the team showed wonderful
form at times and as most of the team will be back next year, we may safely hope to expect
great things from it in the future. Considering the handicaps under which he has worked this year, we may very
well congratulate Coach Hengeveld for the team he has put out.

N. C.

ALL ROADS LEAD TO

Here is your opportunity to insure against embarrassing errors in spelling, pronunciation, and poor choice of words. Know the meaning
of puzzling war terms, increase your efficiency, which results in power and success.

WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in
daily use by hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over. 400,000 Words. 2700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations.
13,000 Biographical Entries. 30,000 Geographical Subjects. GRAND (Highest Award) Panama-Pacific Exposition.

REGULAR and INDIA-PAPER Editions. WRITE for Specimen Pages. FREE Pocket Maps if you name this paper.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

LOOK OUT FOR

“Blind Husbands”

THE PICTURE THAT WILL OPEN YOUR EYES

Grips you like a vise, shudder with horror and shout with joy at the climax. WATCH FOR THE DAY AND
DATE; IF YOU MISS IT, IT’S YOUR LOSS.

G. & C. MERRIAM CO.

Satisfies the national demand for a wholesome, pure, and appetizing beverage—at the soda fountain or with your meals. Bevo will
more than satisfy your thirst.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH ST. LOUIS
