THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL............. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS.......... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND............ Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE............... Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES........... Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN......... Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL.......... Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE.......... Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP............. Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS........... Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL................ Social Editor
M. M. WILLIAMS.......... Literary Editor
F. M. WADE............... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, R.
LONG, C. G.
OGDEN, D. H.
COOPER, W. J.
McGEE, W.
ORMAND, A. C.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS.......... Business Manager
E. A. NASH............... Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG............... Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL............... Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We are glad to see that the R.O.T.C. is becoming a useful as well as ornamental organization. They are to be congratulated upon the efficient handling of the large crowd at Saturday’s game.

On to Winston is the campus slogan for this week. Let each member of the student body be there if he has to save, skimp and borrow to do it. The team needs this moral backing for its fifth straight victory.

THE BEST WAY OUT

It has been a matter of much interest to us to watch the discussion that is now being waged in the Open Forum relative to the harm of certain college yells recently used at our athletic games. We believe that this matter has been “aired” sufficiently by those of both sides and that nothing will be gained by a continuance of this “give and take” policy. Hence this issue will mark the close of this contention, and we have taken upon ourselves the high privilege of having the last word.

Frankly, we cannot find ourselves in complete harmony with everything that has been said either for or against these yells and songs, but upon this one point we are emphatically agreed that it is not compatible with Davidson ideals to use that one yell which carries with it the expression: “the whole —— team.” Perhaps some are not able to distinguish between this and a certain song that is so familiar to us, yet to the fellow who will actually think this out we believe that he will soon come to see and know that such a yell is not worthy of a Davidson student body, as its tendency is toward the profaning rather than the maintaining of the fair name of our school.

Space does not permit for a detailed argument in this matter, yet we would insist that the use of the aforesaid yell be discontinued. This type of cheering cannot possibly do any good, and it will do harm to the reputation of our college. Under such circumstances, let it be resolved that from henceforth only that kind of yelling will be countenanced that will indicate that true, clean and fair spirit that has always been the dominating feature of our campus life.

WHAT'S THE REASON?

Recently several of the student body meetings have witnessed a type of action entirely uncalled for. This has been the leaving of assembly hall on the part of some students during the addresses of men invited to speak to the students. Such occurrences not only embarrass the speaker, but still worse, the impression of Davidson created thereby is far from being an excellent one. Within our knowledge such a disregard of courtesy has not been manifested on our campus for years, and surely this is not the time to begin such a practice.

We must confess that we fail to see a logical reason for such promiscuous leaving, and our only solution of the matter is that this is due to one of the following several reasons. In the first place, it may be due to thoughtlessness on the part of the men doing such a thing. It is to be trusted that this is not intentional. If it is, check yourself immediately. In the second place, it may be due to some students thinking that these men have no real message for them. They were never more mistaken in their lives, and they are losing a valuable chance to learn and acquire something really worthwhile. Finally, to an outsider it would appear that it is due to a gross lack of proper courtesy. If this is the case, it certainly reflects most shamefully upon the home training, and for boys coming from the best families in the South to be guilty of such action, it is something that is simply amazing.

After sober judgment, we can think of only the reasons enumerated above, and have written plainly concerning them. To the students who have been discrediting our school, for this is what it amounts to, the plea is made that you face the matter squarely and judge for yourself the reason of your action. Ask yourself the question, if such occurrences are due to your not being capable of thinking clearly as to what is best for you; or is it that you are so egotistical that you think these visitors cannot tell you anything; or is it that you are simply lacking in those elements of courtesy worthy of a gentleman. This is written straight to the point, but if the cap fits then wear it. Yet with it all, the request is made in all earnestness that hereafter such acts will not be indulged in by any student, nor that the student body will tolerate this action that is so unjust to the standards of our school.| EXCHANGE had started downstairs, probably from a short circuit in the electric wires. THE POINT SYSTEM. (sit) Pau 4 A The only injuries received was a smashed finger resulting from an automobile jack with which one of the noble student fire-fighters was trying to break a hole in the floor. The present point system of honors was inaugurated quite a few years ago and like many other things has not been revised with the growth of Davidson. Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room. Mutual. members of the student body and based on these conversations the following revision, which seems to be logical in comparison with the other college honors rating points, is offered, R. O. T. C. major 5 points; captains 1 point; band leader, 3 points. Y. M.C. A. treasurers, 3 points; board of control, 1 point; Glee Club leader, 3 points; manager, 2 points; assistant manager, 1 point. This is a proposition that should be given consideration. These jobs have either been created or enlarged until a revision is absolutely necessary. These men are due this consideration, and don’t forget that the men in college that really are of value to their school are the men who get out and do things. These men who rate the jobs mentioned are doing something for your college and deserve this honor that the student body can give them. Shall we give them credit? E. Pluribus Unum.

GET BUSY. A Tuscalo girl is suing her employer for $5,000 damages on account of a most peculiar accident which occurred in the home where she is employed as a domestic. She was taking her bath by the kitchen range and she stepped out of the washpan, slipped on a cake of soap on the floor and sat down on the stove. When she arose she was branded “Majestic.”—Villa Grove (Ill.) News.

Pants are made for men and not for women. Women are made for men and not for pants. When a man pants for a woman and a woman pants for a man, that makes a pair of pants. Even a dog pants. Pants are like molasses. They are thinner in hot weather and thicker in cold. There has been much discussion as to whether pants are singular or plural. Seems to us that when men wear pants it is plural and when they don’t wear pants it is singular. If you want to make pants last, make the coat first. - Richmond Collegian.

Fellows, it is very inconvenient to lock your door all the time and the quicker we get rid of this undesirable element and make things safe for democracy the better it will be for all concerned. Will They Ever Learn? Everybody on the hop now and let’s find the guilty parties and deal summarily with them. S. C. A.

Fellows, why stand we here idle? The most unusual amount of stealing in the history of the college is going on at our very doors. Amounts ranging all the way from one to fifty dollars have been taken from the pockets of men while they were out taking exercise. This is not true of any special floor, but has occurred in every dormitory with alarming frequency. Even articles of clothing, such as hats, shoes, and raincoats have disappeared in such a way as to leave no doubt that they were deliberately stolen. There are just three ways that these thefts could occur, and we should have no difficulty in cutting these down if everyone will get busy. The first way is through the janitors. They are all for the most part trustworthy, but it would be well to keep a closer watch on some of them.

A second way is through the students themselves. When as large a body as this is gathered together there is bound to be some sneak thief. Let us be on the alert and the first one that is caught make an example of him by tarring and feathering him. This is a barbarous action, but it will be an effective example.

A third way is through the town boys and agents. They roam through the buildings at will when they really are not allowed to. No one is allowed in the buildings but the janitors. The next suspicious character you see on your floor, stop him and ask him his business and if he cannot explain his presence satisfactorily advise him never to return. Put a little point to this advice by kicking him down about three flights of stairs.

You can lead a student to lectures but you can’t make him think.

What man doesn’t like his pipe? There's nothing that whets your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. Because you know that in it lies the only real smoke satisfaction. Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is a WDC, because in WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process. Then, too, WDC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are pleasing and workmanship perfect. You'll agree with us that our craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against cracking or burning through. Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES