THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1920.

Christian Activities

VOLUNTEERS CELEBRATE.
Excellent Feed Enjoyed By All Members of Band.

At ten o'clock Friday night the door of the Literary Science room was thrown open to thirty-six Student Volunteers and their friends. During the hour that followed there was continuous capturing and consuming of confections and sodas. After every trace of the table decorations were wiped out, a contest of wit and near-wit was called. In 30 minutes all jokes from Grandfather Adam to Hughjohn were thoroughly aired. “Junebug” Price and Hugh Smith won by a unanimous vote and were awarded the privilege of cleaning up after the feed.

There was another side to the feed though—when things sobered down several Volunteers urged their fellow members to look upon life seriously, not as an ascetic but as Jesus Christ who was a man among men, and to do everything in their power to make Davidson and the world better. Recognizing the benefits of such a gathering, the Band voted another feed before Christmas, and thanked “Mac” Richards and “Bill” Manze for their efforts in getting up the present feed. In five minutes the echoes and reechoes of 15 “rahs” for “Volunteers,” “Davidson” and “The Team” closed Davidson Volunteer Band’s first feed for this year.

VOLUNTEERS BEGIN NEW ERA

A new era in the work of the Volunteer Band was begun last Wednesday when the Volunteers held their first meeting before breakfast. Sunday afternoons here are so crowded that it has always been difficult to get the men together at that time. For this reason, the members of the Band decided to try Wednesday morning. It was urged that there would be less to distract the attention of the men at the early hour, and that it would encourage the Volunteers to form their own private Morning Watches on other mornings.

The meeting Wednesday was the first really constructive meeting that has been held this year. Plans for the whole year were discussed and committees appointed. And perhaps best of all, a FEED was decreed for Friday night. The Volunteers appear very enthusiastic over the change, as more than twenty-five were out. They all regard it as a beginning of greater things.

Y. M. C. A. READING ROOM TO BE OPENED SOON

When a fellow gets tired or lonesome and wishes for a good old rocking chair to rest in, the place for him to go is to the “Y” reading room. In the evenings after the library is closed and a fellow wishes that the world would consist of a good book or story and a blazing fire, let him hie himself to the gym and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Or, if he wishes a little jazz on the victrola and piano, or some fellows to talk to, in the future he will know where to go.

The Y. M. C. A. reading room, located in the gym, first door to the left, will be opened soon, and it is expected that many will enjoy its hospitality. Finances to equip the room are to be raised among the alumni. Although the room will contain all the latest magazines and many popular novels, it is the intention to make it as much of a social center as a reading room. The piano has been repaired and a new victrola is expected soon. The gym is usually not very well heated in the winter but plans are under way to make the room comfortable throughout the cold season.

SHEARER CHAPEL, ONE OF OUR STRONGEST MISSION SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Dr. J. S. Shearer, some twenty-five years ago, organized the little church known as Shearer Chapel. Since that time its progress has been of great interest to Davidson students. The custom among the men of teaching there dates back many years before its permanent establishment.Chapel building is located four miles east of Davidson, in the midst of a sheltering grove. It is here that men of our school have carried on a work begun so long ago. The same enthusiastic spirit, which prompted the building of the chapel, still exists among the members of its loyal congregation. All the men who have labored there have shared in the wholehearted spirit of the community. At present, the pulpit is unfilled, but the cooperative work of its supporters has allowed no slack in its work. The Sunday School attendance averages above 90, and the Christian Endeavor has almost as high a percentage. Shearer Chapel is one of the strongest and most promising Sunday Schools under the direction of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Each Sunday afternoon, a faithful group of students hikes out to conduct the services there. Through all difficulties, this little church has remained a great factor for good in the rural community where it is located. The regard for it is evidenced by the hospitality which these farmer-folk show all Davidson men.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR INSTALLATION SERVICE HELD

Officers and Committee Chairmen Installed by Dr. Richards.

October Mid-Month Columbia Records NOW ON SALE HERE

Write us for a new record list, and come in and hear your favorite music. Mail orders shipped the same day the order is received.

W. T. McCOY & CO. THE COLUMBIA STORE 209-211 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.

The officers and committee chairmen chosen as the executive committee of the Young People’s Society of Christian Endeavor for the next six months were installed on Sunday afternoon by Dr. Richards. In addition to its four officers, the society has ten committees, promoting the lookout, prayer meeting, social, missionary efficiency, and other activities promoted in the Christian Endeavor work. The executive committee met on Tuesday night and assigned each member of the society to some committee. Splendid plans for the fall and winter work were adopted and will be announced to the society as the time for beginning each approaches. The topic for next Sunday is “Bible Verses That Help.” The Scripture reference is Psalm 119:33-40. A cordial invitation is extended to all who wish to come.

(Continued on page 7)

LIFE INSURANCE-- A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE- -GREENSBORO, N.C. CAPITAL--ONE MILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE High-Class Moving Pictures Charlotte, N.C.

A Perfect Home Piano

Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning - Repairing - Moving

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc. ESTABLISHED 1842 M. D. MANNING, Manager 219 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C.

SAVE YOUR HAIR!

Tono Scalpa stops hair from coming out by removing the cause—the dangerous dandruff germ. We absolutely guarantee that Tono Scalpa will remove every trace of dandruff from your head and relieve itching of the scalp, or your money will be refunded.

TONO SCALPA The SCALP TONIC

Tono Scalpa puts your scalp in a healthy condition thereby promoting a new growth of soft, radiant, luxuriant hair. Give Tono Scalpa a trial. You will be delighted with the results.

MEN! Ask your Barber for a TONO SCALPA RUB

THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR BIERMANS ENGRAVING CO. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”

Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more---no limit. Full death addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.

G. W. PATTERSON, Gen'l Agt. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company Openings for live men as agents

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N.C., Writes Insurance He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.