THE PHOTO BUGS at KODAK POINTS

THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES

At the Powerhouse Brady Printing Co. The College Printers If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the
man to do it STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Hoover & Smith Co. Fraternity and Watch Jewelers Philadelphia, Penna. 615 Chestnut Street

The Selwyn Hotel FIRE PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping
centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our
system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

"THE HOUSE OF SERVICE" Double Guarantee, Free Tuning, Real Selling Plan AMPICO (Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged) Write
for Tuning, Repairing and Moving Prices and Terms Catalogue, JOHN W. POST & CO. Piano Warerooms 209-211 W. Trade St.,
Charlotte, N.C. also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

PHI’S CARRY OUT REGULAR PROGRAM Eu’s Fail to Agree on Subject for Debate. Philanthropic Society. Program for October 30, 1920.

Debate: Affirmative: W. K. McCain C. W. Robinson D. R. Freeman Extemporaneous Debate: D. W. Lowrance Declamation or Oration: J.
C. Wool

Negative: J. F. Clark T. A. Freeman W. P. Brown R. H. Poole G. N. Neel

According to custom, the Phi Society met Saturday night, and after roll call by the secretary and devotional by J.
W. Baldwin, the following program was rendered; for the regular debate, the subject was: “Resolved, that the history of labor
unions in the U. S. has shown a principle detrimental to the interests of the country.” The society had the
privilege of hearing “Rifle Rest,” the lineal descendant of Champ Clark. He showed rare form in his eloquent defense of
the affirmative. To his most honorable colleague must go much credit for the great debate which ended so unfavorably for
the affirmative. J. A. Poteat and S. R. Stoan uncovered such a line drive against the arguments of the affirmative,
that even J. F. was ready to admit that he was beaten. D. W. Roberts and L. A. Taylor showed
wonderful examples of oratory in their trials, but much to be regretted was the inability of the hall to appreciate
their endeavors. Mr. Taylor deserves special credit for the composition of his speech, if not for the delivery. The extemporaneous
debate was well up to standard with J. C. Wool and C. W. Robinson upholding the affirmative and the negative
respectively. Each side produced many reasons why or why not Davidson should have dancing as a part of its social
functions, but the affirmative won the judges’ decision. The society decided to hold the regular meeting on next Saturday, unless
a half-holiday is granted, in which case the program will be postponed until November 6.

SIGMA UPSILON. The regular meeting of the Blue Pencil Chapter was held in the S. A. E. hall on last
Wednesday night. Dr. Erwin proved the feature of the program with his interesting article on the “Russian Short Story.” This
almost unknown subject was dealt with in great minuteness. The paper showed much research work and thorough knowledge of the
subject. D. W. Roberts read a verse of poetry of the same meter as our Alma Mater and with a
similar thought. F. V. Long gave a review of one of Locke’s books and created no little interest in reading
books by that author. After a short business meeting, the fraternity adjourned for the initiation of new members.

THE ST. CLAIRE SISTERS. The St. Claire Sisters, a ladies’ quartet, give a varied program, which combines orchestral, vocal and
special novelty features. Audiences which have heard the Military Girls or the American Girls will find the same brightness and
sparkle which makes these two companies so well remembered. The St. Claire Sisters have already appeared on one of the
Redpath Chautauqua circuits with decided success. The personnel of this company is as follows: Ella St. Claire, soprano, piano, mandolin,
banjo; Mary St. Claire, alto, violin, cello; Grace St. Claire, contralto, cornet, saxophone; and Ruth St. Claire, mezzo-soprano, harp, drums.

COX-ROOSEVELT CLUB CONTINUES WORK The Cox-Roosevelt Club has continued the campaign for democracy, although it was defeated in its endeavor
to secure Senator Lee S. Overman for an address, the senator already having all dates till election filled. But this
by no means indicates that they intend to recognize any defeat next Tuesday. At a short meeting held last Wednesday
morning, Dr. Lingle spoke to the members for a few moments urging every man of age from North Carolina or
from any other state having absentee voting laws to take full advantage of them, and thus be among the vast
numberWho on November 2, are going to show how solid the glorious old Southland is. The Democrats of Davidson College,
and be it said that it would be difficult to find half a dozen from all her student body who
are not—have already faithfully rendered their financial and moral support to their party, and the power of the ballot alone
remains in their hands. If present plans can be successfully carried through, the Cox-Roosevelt Club, through special agreement with the
W. U. Telegraph Company, will furnish bulletin returns from the election on the night of November the second.

DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR SPEAKS IN ROCK HILL

J. E. Cassell, of Christiansburg, Va., accompanied by J. C. Bailey, H. H. Hill, John Roddy, W. T. Elliot, and
D. R. Freeman, motored to Rock Hill last Saturday to make a talk before a meeting of the Hi-Y Club
of that city. The party left here Saturday morning in “C. J's" new Buick and spent the weekend in the
“Good Town.” The meeting was held in the Chamber of Commerce hall and speeches, movies, music, and eats were the
principal attractions. Cassell was the principal speaker and he made a very interesting talk on The Life Worthwhile. Lieut. “Jimmie
Dosier,” a wearer of a distinguished service medal, made a few remarks and a moving picture of himself in action
was then shown. The musical side of the program was well taken care of with two cornet solos by Freeman
and with several “peppy” marches by the Rock Hill Drum and Bugle Corps. The meeting was brought to a close
with refreshments which were of course enjoyed to the fullest extent by everybody.

Cassell has for the past summer been connected with the V. M. C. A. work in Rock Hill, having had
charge of the “Y” camp on the Catawba River. The camp has been conducted for several summers without anyone in
charge, but the need of a good man to take over the camp and to watch after the many youngsters
who went out to enjoy a night on the banks of the Catawba was very apparent. No better man could
have been found for the job for he was liked by both the kids and the older folks and was
welcomed back by all of his many acquaintances.

Claire, second soprano, reader, piano, mandolin, banjo; Velma St. Claire, first alto, violin, piano, mandolin, banjo; Lillian St. Claire, contralto,
violin, mandolin, banjo. The features of the St. Claire Sisters’ program are: Mandolin quartet, ladies’ vocal quartet, violin solos and
duets, readings, orchestral music of violins, mandolins, piano; vocal solos, duos and trios; pianologues; banjo orchestra of violin, two banjos,
piano, especially effective for popular music; piano solos and duets; humorous songs with action; banjo quartet.

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

For nearly a century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

STOP, LOOK and READ!

We carry a full line of Fancy Groceries, Feed Stuff, and all supplies, at the cheapest price. Come in and
see us.

THE BLUE FRONT STORE (W. N. JOHNSON, SONS CO.)

BELK BROS.

SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS. WE PREPAY CHARGES ON ALL ORDERS. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte’s Leading Dept. Store

MEETING NEW CONDITIONS WITH NEW PRICES

We anticipated just these conditions months ago, and prepared to meet them. Going through every department of our nine floors,
we have changed prices downward to the level of today’s manufacturers and in many cases LESS.

Men’s and Boys’ Clothing—Shoes—Hats—Furnishings of All Kinds—Fall and Winter Underwear. Wool Goods—Silks—Linens—All Kinds of White Goods—Ladies’ Ready-to-Wear—Household Furnishings. Special Sales
now on in all Departments at GREAT REDUCTIONS. BLANKET SALE—“SALE ON WOOL GOODS NOW ON.” In fact, you will find
REMARKABLE Reductions from Prevailing Prices in ALL DEPARTMENTS. Send us your MAIL ORDERS—or better still, Come To See US—It Will
Pay You.

BELK BROS.
30 Stores Sell It For Less. We Buy for 30 STORES And Sell for Less.
