4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

Open Forum

WHY NOT?

“Hats off to Prof. Erwin. As the old negro said, “He has done the undoable.” Out of chaos, he brought
forth a minstrel show that would do credit to a professional organization. For a long time, the need of just
such an occasion each year has been felt. When the announcement was made that

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF 6
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Monday. Articles received from an unknown
source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
E. CASSELL

Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND

Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE

Assignment Editor
Athletic Editor
M. R. DOUBLES

Alumni Editor
W. C. McCASKILL

Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
B. BOULWARE

Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS

Assistant Editor
H. A. HOPKINS

Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
G. BOER, W.
MANHOOD, D. L.
OEND, W.
GHAM, C. E.
MAUZY, W. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
DAVIDSON, R. F.
C. J. MATTHEWS
Business Manager

Assistant Managers
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG
Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL
Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

Senior Speaking would be done away with and that we would have a Senior Week all but the Seniors were
sorry. When the “fire” came on the hill and to take away one of these was a calamity. No one
then believed that the proposed Senior Week would amount to a row of pins. But Prof. Erwin has shown them
all that they were wrong. Now that we have done this much, why can’t we take one step more, why
can’t we form a Dramatic Club. The show the other night made it clear that the talent is not lacking,
all they need is leading and training. Let this club give two plays each year, one at Junior Speaking and
one at Commencement.

In the first place, this would help to liven up these two occasions. Junior Speaking couldn’t be hurt with a
little added life, and as for commencement anything would liven it, maybe by it a few fellows could be induced
to stay. And then, it would be a fine way for some of the fellows to give vent to their
theatrical instincts. There may be many on the hill, who would be glad to give most of their time to
an enterprise of this sort. The powder is all ready, all that is needed is for somebody to light the
fuse.
P. J.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

A REPLY.

In reply to the gentleman last week on changing the present fall term exam dates, I would like to ask
if this present system is not really a privilege. Under present conditions we enjoy getting home and having a good
time so much that we don't worry about our reports.

EDITORIAL

We are wondering if the functioning of the Audit Board and the Point System has ceased to be. There can
be no doubt that these should be put into proper execution again promptly.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

We wish you the best of luck, Seniors, in fooling the Faculty about those coming exams.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

A HAPPY CHRISTMAS TO YOU.

This issue marks our final effort for the fall term. We trust that we have served you well, for the
Staff has been faithful in its efforts to give you a Davidsonian equal to any college paper. As this is
our last chance to speak a word to you this fall, we wish to extend to every student our very
best wishes for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

The time will soon arrive when school duties will be forgotten for a while, and our attention will be turned
to less serious and unimportant things. The feeling of freedom that results from this emancipation will almost engulf you, but
with it all we would add a word of caution that you never once fail to remember that you are
a true son of Davidson. As such then conduct yourself throughout the Holidays in a way that will only reflect
credit and honor upon our institution. With a high ideal of this nature, the coming vacation will hold forth its
best rewards of good times and pleasures. Again we wish you the happiest of Holiday seasons.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

AND THEY SHALL RECEIVE OUR PRAISE.

To our football team and Coach Grey this issue is dedicated. The gridiron season of 1920 is now a thing
of the past, but it is with a sense of pride and admiration that we recall the work of our
team and coach. While some may say that our record is not a brilliant one, yet it is of such
a nature as to reflect credit and honor upon this college. After all, it is not the number of victories
that really count, but it is the spirit that characterizes the Red and Black players upon the field. Davidson’s athletic
reputation is not founded upon victorious teams. Such a foundation is too unstable, for all teams have their off seasons.
It is based rather upon that clean playing and fighting spirit characteristic of the Wildcat teams, and this being the
case our football team of 1920 magnificently increased rather than detracted from Davidson’s fame in the realm of sports. For
this reason every student, alumnus and backer of our college is proud of it.

Beginning the season with the hardest schedule that ever confronted a Davidson football team, and handicapped by only one Varsity
backfield man around which to build an offense, Coach Greyresponded with everything in his power and succeeded nobly in his
work. That the student body believes in him is shown by the fact that he is backed to the limit
by every man on the campus. While at other colleges rumors are coming thick and fast that certain new coaches
will be dismissed because their teams did not get more than an even break on the season, it is with
pleasure that we can state that Coach Grey has the wholehearted support of the student body. With better prospects for
next season, our confidence rests supreme that our football mentor will show — until they actually come. Besides this, isn’t
it better to have the thoughts of exams off our minds instead of wondering whether we will stand a showing
when we return? Anticipation always hurts worse than realization, especially so with exams that we fear we won't pass. Another
statement he made sounds extremely doubtful. Don’t we return after Christmas rather the worse physically and mentally too than with
rested and refreshed minds? Don’t we come nearest to being homesick and unsettled mentally in the first week after our
return from home than at any other time in the year? Fellows, since the Czar Absence Regulations have reduced our
privileges so much let us not make matters worse by trying to cram for exams after we have had the
time of our young lives. This change might be compared to following the Christmas dinner with quinine tablets instead of
after-dinner mints. Titus.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

GROUCHES. The editor of the Davidsonian in one of the editorials in the last issues makes reference to “grouches” on
the campus. Knowing the connection as we do we would like to say that it is our belief that the
editor has made an error in his designation. A grouch is not one who in the performance of his duty
attempts to have an explanation of some action which he does not understand. That there are grouches and sore-heads on
the campus all will admit, some with and some without cause. But this term should not be applied to those
who in an honest endeavor to further the interests of certain college organizations and a closer degree of harmony between
factions requests that the reasons for a supposed grievance be gone over so that both sides may continue to work
for the best interests of the college. It is the opinion of the writer that most of the fellows do
believe that “things here on the campus are being run on the level” until they have reasonable proof to doubt
that fact. However, when we get the sworn statement of those in a position to know that something is not
being run on the level we (Continued on page 5)

WYON'T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it’s a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke
is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and
mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them
in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

The Wampire Edition of the VANDERBILT HUSTLER is the boldest we have seen this year. With large five-column headline VANDERBILT-SEWANEE
GAME FRAMED UP it tapers down to the double-column headline PROFESSOR CURRY IS CAUGHT WASHING DIRTY COLORED WIN- (Continued on
page 5) the gridiron fans of the South something new and startling in this branch of athletics.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

IT IS UP TO YOU. The exam schedule is now out. You have no doubt already counted the days until
you leave. The excitement that surges over you when you think of soon being at home perhaps gives you the
thought that just to get through those coming duties in any sort of slipshod fashion will be sufficient. Do not
fool yourself like this. The success of your work this fall can either be made or unmade in the short
remaining three weeks of this term. The feeling of satisfaction that is derived from college work does not come to
the student who just slips by in any sort of way; it comes only to that student who puts his
best into his college duties. It is such a student who enjoys and gets the most out of the coming
vacation. Which will you be? It is left entirely to you. No one can make you put your best into
your work. Surely, however, the right-thinking boy will not be guilty of shoddy work. Buck up and hit the line
hardest at this time, for now is your final opportunity to make good.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

OVER THIRTY STUDENTS LEAVE University of Mississippi

Over thirty students have left the University of Mississippi due to recent trouble over fraternities and dances. The Board of
Trustees had drawn up a questionnaire which they required every fraternity man to sign by “high noon,” Wednesday, November 10.
This questionnaire was duly signed by some of the students, most of whom belonged to fraternities before coming to Ole
Miss. There were others, however, who were consciously opposed to filling out the questionnaire, and to prevent trouble on the
campus, withdrew like men. It had seemed that factionalism had been killed and that strife between the frat men and
the anti-frat had come to an end. The hole made in the ranks by the departure of these men and
those who withdrew for other reasons is already noticed and their absence felt.

—From the Mississippian.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

The second edition of QUEENS BLUES is a decided improvement over the first edition. They have a real college newspaper,
and are to be congratulated on their success in the journalistic field. Another exchange that has made its appearance on
the Davidsonian list is the SALEMITE. The Thanksgiving extra contains all of the college songs and yells.
