Devotional News
THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

MR. JACKSON LEADS EASTER SERVICE OF Y. M. C. A.
Highly Practical Talk Given by College Treasurer on Christianity’s Relation to Accounting.

Mr. Jackson, who has for the last two years been teaching the course in Accounting, spoke to the Y. M.
C. A. on the subject “Christianity Related to Accounting.” The Bible verse which expressed his main thought was, “Be not
slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord.” The first thought brought out was that Jesus is our Capital
Stock. If our income is to increase, our assets must be greater than our liabilities. What are some of the
assets in the Christian life? First, there is Christian influence. We are as subject to the influence of those about
us as the young plants are to the sunshine and rain. So be sure that your influence will be for
good and not for evil. Our lives are continually changing and are open to suggestion and it is easy for
sin to creep in. Therefore, it is necessary that we choose good companions as we would choose a good man
if going into business. Secondly, every life has some great controlling factor. Everyone has something to do in this world
and we should go to God and seek His guidance for this. The last asset is belief in prayer. Prayer
is one of the greatest things in the Christian life, for it is practically the same as drawing a check
on Christ, who is able to pay the whole debt. All prayers are answered to him that believeth, though not
always in the affirmative. “The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.”

Then some of the liabilities in the Christian life are: First, indifference. So many try to lead a 50-50 life,
but this is impossible if we would please God. God wants His servants to be 100 per cent Christians. Secondly,
so many have low ideals, as shown in their search for riches, when they forget God. A great many think
more of their reputation than of their character. If they can keep the people fooled, they don’t think of God.
The last liability is the habit of sin. Of course, all people sin, but we should strive to keep God’s
commandments.

The last thought brought out by Mr. Jackson was, be

UNUSUAL TREAT PROMISED STUDENTS
At Next “Y” Meeting—Governor Bickett to be Speaker of Evening.

The “Y” meeting next Sunday evening is expected to be the best of the whole year. Governor Bickett will be
here to address the students and will doubtless give one of the most practical and inspiring talks that has been
heard on the campus in quite a while. He is noted not only in this state, but throughout the whole
country as a man of sterling character and as a speaker of no mean ability. There will be special music
by the quartet and orchestra, so this is a meeting that no one can afford to miss, and a 100
per cent attendance is expected. All the townspeople are cordially invited to meet with the students and it is hoped
that many of them will attend.

VISIT OF MR. PARKER, OUR MISSIONARY TO KOREA BRINGS GREAT PLEASURE

Mr. W. P. Parker, '11, spent four days on the hill, from Saturday until Wednesday of last week, visiting among
the students and telling them of his work in Korea. This is the first opportunity the students have had to
hear directly from their own representative in the foreign mission field, as he has just returned from his work on
his first furlough. Mr. Parker gave three talks Sunday, one at the Sunday School in the afternoon to the town
people, one at the “Y” service to the student body, and another at the meeting of the Student Volunteers just
after church. This visit has given the students a renewed interest and an added zeal in and toward the work
to which they are contributing.

TRAVELING SECRETARY DAVIDSON TO BE REPRESENTED
(Continued from page 1)

The Wildcat team for this year will be held as soon as the weather conditions permit. A system of selection
which will force the members of the team to keep in practice at all times will probably be inaugurated this
season. The attention of the campus enthusiasts is centered on the big show in Atlanta. Will Davidson be represented? You
bet!

CAMPUSISMS.

There is a slight epidemic of mumps in college. Last week Richards, W. J., Covington, Gamble, and Johnson, V. D.,
“went over” with it. Which means that Johnson, V. D., better known as “Cop,” will not be able to go
with the baseball squad on the A. & E. trip.

Freddie, the little son of Prof. Macon Reed, is ill in a Charlotte hospital. He was operated on Friday for
mastoiditis and is getting along as well as could be expected. His mother is with him.

Dr. Martin will leave this week for Pass Christian, Miss. It will be remembered that Dr. and Mrs. Martin spent
several weeks there early in the year; Mrs. Martin was so pleased with the locality that she decided to remain
a while after Dr. Martin found it necessary to return to the Hill. Mrs. Martin expects to return with him
about the middle of this week.

Dr. Richards left Thursday for Greensboro to attend a special meeting of one of the Synodical committees of which he
is a member.

Lack of space forbids the mention of all the men who left the Hill to spend Easter elsewhere—would be easier
to give a list of those who remained.

N. E. Cullum visited his brother, H. B. Cullum, Saturday and Sunday.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL.D., President, RICHMOND,
VA.

BASE BALL
Get into the Game
Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS with Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

The Commissary
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents
ORDERS SOLICITED
OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE

“The House of Service”
1. Free tuning for three years.
2. Free fire insurance while you are paying.
3. Exchange privilege.
Charlotte’s Largest Store Of Quality, Pianos and Organs
AT THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOFSure that your assets outweigh your liabilities. If we have love, peace, joy, longsuffering, and faith, we can be
sure that our assets outweigh the liabilities.

MINISTERIAL BAND ENJOYS LECTURE By Dr. Richards on “The History of the Presbyterian Church.”

On Sunday afternoon before a joint meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands, Dr. Richards made a very interesting and
timely talk. Despite the bad weather and the fact that a large number of men are home spending Easter, one
of the biggest and most enthusiastic meetings held this year heard Dr. Richards. It was noted that very few of
the men who became candidates recently for the Home and Foreign Fields were present. Come on, fellows, fall in and
get the right spirit. The Band welcomes all students to its meetings.

The subject of Dr. Richards’ talk was “The History of the Presbyterian Church.” The address was very interesting and owing
to the fact that most people know very little about Church History. Also at the present time, when so much
is being done to bring together the two branches of the Presbyterian Church, it was most timely and instructive from
that point of view. None of us can afford to miss such meetings as those held the past weeks.

INTERCOLLEGIATE CONFERS WITH “Y” CABINET

Mr. Hall Watson, Traveling Industrial Secretary of the Y. M. C. A., was on the hill last Friday. At the
cabinet meeting on Friday afternoon Mr. Watson made suggestions for the work of the “Y” on the campus next year.
He is very desirous that the “Y” be made more of a center for the social life of the students
and suggested plans for carrying this into effect.

As Mr. Watson is very much interested in social work, he discussed methods for carrying on the work in the
mission Sunday Schools in a more effective way. His talk was very much enjoyed and it will show results in
the work of the Y. M. C. A. for next year.

DEBATERS SELECTED (Continued from page 1)

“Do you understand?” Chalmers closed the debate with the best speech of the evening, in which he brought out a
great many forceful and well-organized arguments. His rebuttal was also strong. The honors were equally divided between the two societies,
as each got two speakers and an alternate. (Schenck and Liston were alternates). An interesting feature of the occasion was
the large number of aspiring Fresh-Soph debaters present. The Fresh-Soph contest used the same subject, and it is rumored that
much of the same material was used, verbatim.

The first debate will be with Mercer in either Atlanta or Macon, on May 4. Chalmers and Ormond, Liston, alternate,
will be the team to speak at that time. Brown and Mitchell, Schenck, alternate, go to Ashland, Va., on May
11 to debate with Randolph-Macon. The subjects for both contests will be the same as that used in the preliminaries,
Davidson to argue the affirmative.

There was an alarm of fire Friday night which from a distance looked to be the real thing. However, it
turned out that it was only a flue fire in the Bachelor’s Hall.

Students are eagerly awaiting a decision which the Library Committee is expected to hand down this week relative to the
proper dress when in the library.

A. G. Oltman left college last Saturday for Columbus, Ga., where he will begin his work as advance man for
Redpath’s Chautauqua. Oltman is going to work the South Atlantic States and expects to be in North Carolina in about
a month, when he will visit the Hill. His departure was indeed a surprise to many and he will be
missed by all. However, he has not left us for good as he will be back next fall and will
then fill the office of business manager of The Davidsonian. We all hate to see him leave, but we wish
him great success in his work and are looking forward to his return to the Hill next fall.

Mr. and Mrs. Miles left Thursday for Virginia, where they intend to spend a few days at the home of
Mrs. Miles, in Roanoke. From here they will go to Richmond to attend the wedding of his sister, Miss Margaret
Miles, which will take place on the sixth of April. Mr. Miles will perform the wedding ceremony and expects to
return to Davidson on Thursday, the eighth. Mrs. Miles will not accompany him, however, as she intends to remain in
Virginia for some time.

Rev. W. H. Hunter and family, who have rooms with Mrs. Abbott, have rented the Ellinwood home and will move
there about May 1, when Mrs. and Miss May Ellinwood return to their summer home at Cornwall, Conn.

R. W. McKay, ex-’17, is in the Medical Department of Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.

Miss Frances Worth and Miss Mary Richards, who is teaching at Mocksville, were Easter visitors at the Manse.

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Brady Printing Co.

“The World’s Best Piano” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO. Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged. Our
system of Tuning, Repairing and Moving.

JOHN W. POST & CO. Knabe Warerooms 209-218 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Stores also at Norfolk and Newport
News, Va.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training
School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life
and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.”
We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and
then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a
result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company Greensboro, N. C. A. W. McAlister, President. R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President. A. M. Scales,
Second Vice-President. R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President. Arthur Watt, Secretary. H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.
