THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS
THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES
At the Powerhouse

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

EUMENEAN LITERARY SOCIETY
Senior Division Program, October 9, 1920
Resolved: That the United States should adopt a national budget.
Affirmative: 
Houston White, A. D. King, W. W. Moore, C. D. Fuller, M. B. Heiser, J. C. B. McLaughlin.
Oration: J. R. Boulware.
Declamation: W. A. Gamble.

Junior Division Program, October 11, 1920.
Affirmative: 
I. D. Parrish, W. M. Heston, W. M. Davis, Joe H. Long.
Negative: 
K. H. Smith, K. E. Luckie.
Declamations: W. S. Minter, J. B. Hickson.

LITERARY SOCIETIES HOLD VERY INTERESTING MEETINGS
Both Eu’s and Phi’s Show much Improvement in Debates.

Eumenian Society.
The old Eu Hall vibrated with applause last Saturday night, when Frank Wildman, the most dignified Soph on the Hill, stepped forth in the role of a negro preacher. His declamation, entitled "The Prodigal Son," was a masterpiece in the line of humor, and his rendering of darkie dialect eclipsed any such previous performance. The audience was carried on from one burst of laughter to another, and the critic’s unhesitating report was, “No criticism necessary.”

The debate, resolved, that Mongolians should have equal rights with other immigrants, proved the most interesting feature of the year’s program. The affirmative was upheld by A. C. Summers, R. F. Davidson, and Emmet Burns McGukin, all worthy supporters of a losing struggle, for the decision went to the negative. This was composed of F. H. Patterson, A. C. Ormand, and R. Bitzer. Those favoring the naturalization of Mongolians attempted to show that justice demands such a step, that this only can prevent a war with Japan, and that the yellow people make good citizens. In opposition to these arguments, the negative advanced the political, social, and economical disadvantages of admitting Mongolians into American citizenship.

Those members who have not attended the meetings of this year will be reinstated without fine for past absences, if they so desire.

PHI SOCIETY
Last Saturday night the Phi Society had a very snappy meeting with Dave Roberts leading the forces of the affirmative against C. K. Brown and the other defenders of the negative. After the roll call by the secretary and devotional exercises by J. F. Clarke, the battle of words began. Dave Roberts stated the query: Resolved, That members of the Mongolian race be admitted equally with other immigrants. He gave the history of the question and defended his point on the grounds of courtesy and justice. C. K. Brown for the negative favored retaining Anglo-Saxon supremacy and to do this the Mongolian must be shut out. He showed that now we were not assimilating this type of immigrant. F. W. Smith, the second speaker for the affirmative, based his argument on the theory that we should love our neighbor and this included the Mongolian race. A. F. Fricker, second speaker for the negative, laid most stress on the economical side of the question and proved that American labor would not endure these races with inferior standards of living. L. B. Burney, the last speaker for the affirmative, brought out the fact that Southern European immigrants were no more desirable than Chinese or Japanese and in some cases the latter were better and more desirable immigrants. H. A. Hill, the last speaker for the negative, expanded on the two points, that the standards of living would belowered, and that these races can never be assimilated. On the rebuttals, the speakers did little more than re-state some particular point they had brought out before. The decision was three in favor of the negative. J. M. Dunlap gave an oration on the new absence regulations. He was highly in favor of the old regulations in preference to the new ones. The extemporaneous debate was upheld on the affirmative by R. R. Deaver and on the negative by C. N. Morrison. The subject for debate was, Resolved: That there should be no third party in American politics. The decision was three in favor of the negative. A. S. McIlwaine was initiated as a member of the society and assigned to the Junior section.

SIGMA UPSILON BIDS THREE NEW MEN
Dr. Shewmake Gives Talk on Short Story.

The Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon held its second regular meeting last Wednesday night in the Pi Kappa Alpha Hall. The meeting opened with an interesting talk on the short story by Dr. Shewmake. This is a branch of writing that is becoming more and more important in these hurried days and was well handled by this thorough master of the subject. W. P. Cumming next read a poem which portrayed something of the future life of a senior. Then D. L. Mahood read the first chapter of a continued story which the members of the club are writing, each chapter having a different author. An invitation to join the club was extended to J. M. Gaston, Jr., C. G. Long, and C. J. Matthews. These men will be initiated sometime in the near future. The usual “feed” completed the program.

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY HOLDS OPENING MEETING

The first meeting of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon, held last week, starts them off for this year with flying colors. The old members back are J. R. Boulware, M. R. Doubles, J. M. Dunlap, A. P. Ormand, Prof. Thies, and Dr. Arbuckle. Filled with a desire to do all in their power this year for the student body, and especially for those interested in Chemistry, they have been discussing various suggestions as to what can be done to make the chemistry course and building more attractive to the students. The college as a whole will be much indebted to the fraternity this year, as they have arranged for a number of good lecturers to come to speak to the student body, as well as to the members of the fraternity. The general theme of these lectures will be chemistry. It is hoped that all will enjoy them, and that many students will take a more lively interest in this phase of our college course.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS

W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Haugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain
We want to serve you
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

STOP, LOOK and READ!
We carry a full line of Fancy Groceries, Feed Stuff, and all supplies, at the cheapest price. Come in and see us.
THE BLUE FRONT STORE (W. N. JOHNSON, SONS CO.)

Union Theological Seminary

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29th, through Saturday, October 9th, we inaugurate a new kind of Sale: “THE 1920 HARVEST SALE” All Men’s Clothing, Gents’ Furnishings, Hats, Caps, Shoes, Shirts—in fact, every department in our Nine Big Floors participating. For 10 days this will afford you just the chance to make quite a good saving on that new suit or new hat, or shoes. Come any day. Sale Continues for 10 days at Very Substantial Savings.