THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 28, 1928.

PLAY TENNIS
PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White
Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for catalog,
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY
The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF

FOR MEN OF BRAINS.
It has been deemed advisable to divide this column into two parts: one for intelligent persons and the other for
the other kind—of course we expect no one to read the latter half.

Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EURO- SHORTAGES.

They first were kinder timid:
But when they got the range,
They told us everything was short;
I judged so from my change.

At first it was the sugar;
Before that it was flour;
The latter made us eat cornbread,
The former made us sour.

And now they say the coal’s short;
The bin has run quite low;
Judging from the heat we get,
I guess it must be so.

Now everything is running short
From Zip unto Molasses.
But yet I’ve seen no shortage in
The number of my classes.

*If you don’t like the number of feet in this line change it.

Ain't it cussable! to see something about a peach of a heroine; a pan-collegiate football ex-hero; each having flopped for
the other; moonlight; a rustic seat; low tones and then not get in on the climax just like you’re not
doing here?

If the inhabitants of Mars (which has no inhabitants) are endowed with the sense of hearing, why not let the
R. O. T. C. Bugle Corps do the signaling to them?

The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service,
BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

There is a rumor on the campus to the effect that the editor of this department has been receiving bribes
for printing certain things. We most emphatically deny this. What we get the bribes for is NOT printing stuff.

Always being present like you when curtain at Flo-Flo
“Boys they had this same show the last time I was here.”

Think if some morning you woke up at 7:15, stayed awake till quarter till eight and the chapel bell didn’t
ring.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

KINDERGARTEN WIT.
Student Councilman Witherspoon: (Reading sign “ASBESTOS,” on Stogner—“Fresh what would you think it was Sunday.”

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES
FRUITS, ETC.

THEY WIN IN A WALK
We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new
athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box—single or double breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes
or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

Possum (To S. Green who is setting out for P.O.) “S. Green my box is No. 394.”
S. Green—“Possum, my box No. is 311.”

See me for your feeds
Bishop McClure (who is to debate in an hour or so) “Say fellows how many sides are there to this
debate anyway?”

Stock in The Sling and The Peanut Parcher is going up. Skeeter Meacham has returned to the hill.

WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Friday’s chapel was the most enjoyable of the year. It wasn’t held.

Phone orders Solicited.
34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.The only distinguished class at Davidson is the Fresh—their caps, you know.

WHITE'S MARKET

Those who pulled mail off the 2:58 last Friday surely earned it, since in order to get their letter they
were forced to endure a selection of song hits from Postoffice Uethea, Bayonet Romefelt, Lightning Murrey, and Mooney McGeachy. Phone
25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

With the usual apologies:

Bolsheviki, Bolsheviki,
With your flag of carmine hue.
Bolsheviki, Bolsheviki,
Can you blame anyone for throwing a brick at you.

The foregoing is a portion of the output of 11 Chambers and affiliated paradonists.

Bill—"This is one speaking it's not gonna rain.”
Joe—"You're right. I’ve got up a malted it will.”

OPEN FORUM.
(Continued from page 4)

Evidence of this quasi consideration let the proverbial Davidson sense of justice determine whether or not we students have reasonable
grounds for righteous indignation. The Faculty knew quite well that Junior Speaking was to be staged this week. All of
us know that the “Scholastic Efficiency” of a Junior during the week of Junior Speaking is about ninety-nine percent less
than zero. Yet have some members of the Faculty shown those tortured Juniors any of the consideration due them? Indeed
not! To the contrary—Monday, review on English III, IV; Tuesday, reviews on Philosophy I and on Economics; Wednesday, review on
Physics III. There may be others; in fact, there are others among those Juniors who happen to be taking Sophomore
or Fresh tickets. Again, the orations begin Thursday night; but the Juniors are compelled to go to classes both Thursday
and Friday. Will any fair-minded man say that such conditions are just? Of course, it is too late now “to
kick”—the reviews are passed or flunked. But should we not ask our Faculty to show us, in the future, more
of the benign consideration that strangers are led to believe we get from them?

The absence of the band from Tuesday's drill was due to the fact that the bass drum was frozen up.

AT THE COMMISSARY

An exchange suggests that a man upon reaching the end of his rope tie a knot and hang on. Plenty
of men tie the knot all right, but instead of hanging on they hang themselves.

The magazine staff ate a feed last week, but having been neither invited nor a guest, we will make no
mention of it.

If she knew what another girl knows and another girl knew what she knows what did you say a ticket
to San Francisco was?

DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in daily use by
hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over.

R. O. T. C. Blanks as filled out by fresh:
Name, Surname; ----_Christian_-__ Name, Surname; Booth Christian, yes.

GRAND (Highest Award, Panama-Pacific Exposition.

What the new poetry looks like:

WRITE for Pocket Maps if you this paper.

Even at even, when the nights falling,
And to her soul-mate the oriole’s calling.
After the sun’s set, over the river
And when the day’s life has gone forever:
Up ‘ore that little wood, marking the star rise

The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for only
a few.

SOMETHING NEW AT WABASH.

The trustees of Wabash College are starting something new! They met the last time in joint session with a representative
body of the students. Labor and capital, as it were!

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
