THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

Quips and Cranks Reaching “Clean-Up Stages”

Quips and Cranks is moving slowly toward completion. The staff hopes to send the material to press in about six weeks. They will have the photographer here the first part of February to take pictures for the annual.

Among the Alumni

OXFORD AS SEEN BY AN A. E. F. STUDENT.

For age and history, punting and athletics, in the opinion of one of the American officers who attended lectures there, Oxford University deserves unusual consideration. There were some two thousand men who were given an opportunity to attend the British Universities in the spring term of 1919, and Oxford received a quota. The whole idea was, in a way, a matter of propaganda, “Propaganda rules the world nowadays, they say,” as one of the students, Lieut. Robert L. Wolf, C.A., remarks, “but some forms of it are pleasanter to take than others. Certainly no protest was ever more successful and agreeable than that which aimed to increase the cordiality of Anglo-American sentiment by sending two thousand members of the A. E. F. to study at British Universities.” Regarding Oxford University, Lieut. John R. Dyer, of the Coast Artillery, writes in Liaison (Fortress Monroe, Va.). The detachment arrived in England the first week in March, and after two weeks’ delay was assigned in groups of three to three hundred among the various universities. Almost all the students were given their first or second choice of universities. I, fortunately, drew my first choice and went to Oxford. There were several other Coast Artillery officers and men at the same school. Oxford University is prouder of its history and age than of any other item. Many of its buildings are old and weather-beaten, and would not be considered a credit to the average American campus, but you can only faintly imagine the scornful indignation with which the offer of an American millionaire to replace them with up-to-date buildings would be rejected. Despite their buildings and their antiquity, or perhaps because of them, the school is progressive and keenly awake to the great problems of the day, such as history, both ancient and modern. Their work appealed to many of the students present. One series of lectures of especial value was given by Prof. Grant Robertson upon the problems of the Peace Conference. Every British and American officer who had time to do so attended these lectures and followed the problems that were puzzling the Paris statesmen at that particular time. The men participated in the athletic life of the community, and American students rowed on college crews, played on tennis teams, and even attempted the mysteries of cricket. The particular American contribution to the athletic life at Oxford was in the formation of a baseball team. Cambridge had a team also, and although these two universities have been fighting each other some six hundred years on the gridiron, they met for the first time this spring on the diamond. The British enjoyed the sport, but I have no doubt that they will still stick to their traditional games.

J. W. REID PASSES AWAY.

Noted Alumnus of ’82 Dies in Asheville.

Alumni will be grieved to learn of the death of Mr. J. W. Reid, of the class of ’82. The end came on the 9th of January, at the home of his sister, Mrs. R. P. Smith, on Ashland Avenue, Asheville, N. C. Whitner Reid was well known throughout South Carolina, having been connected with the Farmers’ Union and the State Department of Agriculture. When his health broke down two years ago he was taken to Asheville for treatment, where he had since remained. His health had never been restored. Mr. Reid was known as a man of fine personality, and a man of great intellect. He stood third in the class of ’82. The news of his death will be received with sorrow by his many friends.

WALKER-ROWAN.

Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Walker announce the marriage of their daughter, Annie Sue, to Rev. Charles Hamilton Rowan, ’15, on Wednesday, December 25, 1919, Burlington, N.C.

BARRON-RODDEY.

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Barron, of Rock Hill, S. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Maude, to Mr. Benjamin Dunlap Roddey, ’19, the wedding to take place sometime in March.

MISS NAN D’LOACH BECOMES BRIDE OF MR. RUFUS THURMAN.

Of much interest to alumni and friends of the couple comes the announcement of the wedding of Miss Nan DeLoach, of Camden, S. C., and Mr. Rufus Thurman, ex-’14, of Cheraw, S. C., solemnized at high noon, Saturday, December 27, at the Lyttleton Street Methodist Church, of Camden. Mrs. Thurman is the accomplished daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Blair DeLoach, and has a host of friends throughout the state. She is very popular in her home town and her friends regret that she is to make her home elsewhere. Mr. Thurman is a very popular young business man of Cheraw, and the couple will make their home at this place. Among the groomsmen was Mr. John T. Mackey, ex-’22.

DR. RALPH DUNN HONORED.

It is with genuine pleasure that alumni and the friends of Dr. Ralph Dunn, ’15, hear of the promotion, and the position of honor, trust and responsibility accorded to him by his appointment as assistant to Dr. Crow, of Johns Hopkins Hospital. Dr. Crow is an eminent specialist and has more than a nationwide reputation. His selection of an assistant is a distinct compliment. Dr. Dunn is now interned at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Richmond, Va.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. W. J. Martin is spending several days in Salisbury, N. C. Mrs. Reed and her two young sons have returned from a short visit in Columbia, S. C. Mrs. Robert Miles went to Charlotte last week to see friends who were passing through on their way to Tennessee. Miss Louise Sloan, enumerator for this district, has completed the census for Davidson. Portfolios are coming in rapidly to Dr. McConnell’s office and the figures will probably be given out about April 1. Miss Gordon Baskerville has been confined to her bed in the infirmary for several days.conservative game of cricket, leaving the wild shouting of baseball for their less civilized brothers on this side of the Atlantic. One of the characteristics of the Britisher is his slowness to enthuse. At a cricket game, the average Britisher will sit quietly on a bench some distance from the scene of operations, probably with a pipe in his mouth. For half an hour he may say nothing, but at an unusually brilliant play, he is likely to remove his pipe, turn apologetically to his neighbor and say, “Ah! Jolly good!” and then put the pipe back in his mouth for another half an hour of quiet. The thing that most impressed them at the baseball games was the rooting of the crowd, and, despite the technical nature of baseball, the usual question asked of the American bystander was an excited, “What did he say?” The British were exceptionally generous in their hospitality; almost without exception, their homes were open to the Americans, and the invitations were largely accepted. There was no clique or clannishness among the Americans—they all tried to spend the maximum amount of time with their British fellow students and the families in and near Oxford. Though the War Department never said so, many of us are inclined to think that the entire scheme was a very intelligent one. We have come home warm admirers of a really great people whom we have failed to understand.

HOME DIETETICS
“Nourish your body thoughtfully, and it will sustain your thoughts.”

Milk, eggs, and the leafy vegetables have been called the “protective foods.” “In the city of B——,” writes Dr. E. V. McCollum, of Johns Hopkins Hospital, “we have had no less than seven institutions for the care of homeless children. One of these last February had not had a death in seven years. Still another had no death in 1917. At the other extreme stood one institution in which 23 percent of the inmates had died in the past year. Upon investigation of the children’s diet here, I found the purchases of the three protective foods almost nil. Do you realize why these foods are of such importance? Do you know the value of green vegetables, of cereals, and eggs as a substitute for expensive meats? In the days of our forefathers, meat was the most readily procured food. The raising of vegetables required the clearing of ground and its culture under hard and sometimes dangerous conditions, since many a pioneer at work in his field was killed by tomahawk or arrow from an unseen foe. These conditions led the early settlers to depend largely on meat, and thus the habit was formed for their descendants. But now our mode of life, and particularly the cost of meat, makes it much less of a good bargain. A housewife with a family of five to feed, says Lusk, should buy three quarts of milk before buying a pound of meat, even though the prices of both have leaped skyward. Intelligent eating is now recognized as one of the chief factors in promoting health and efficiency.

The Red Cross offers a course in home dietetics which aims to give every girl and woman in the United States elementary instruction in proper nutrition for the well and sick. Instead of using a textbook, outlines will be prepared at national headquarters in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture, to guide instructors in presenting the course. These outlines will include a lecture to be given by the teacher, topics for discussion by the class, with suggested laboratory work wherever possible; homework, exhibits, demonstrations, contests, etc.; extensive references, bibliographies, and illustrative material. Instruction will be given by Red Cross dietitians, or by qualified laywomen under their supervision. Particular emphasis will be placed on the everyday problems in the home. The meals which should be offered to a family of adults who are engaged in sedentary work at an office differ greatly from those suited to a household of farmers. The aim of this course will be to make it flexible enough to apply to every type of family. “Aside from the question of physiological need, eating has an immense vogue as an amusement.” Do you realize that what you give your husband and your children for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner constitutes in large part the measure, not only of their strength and their accomplishment, but also of their dispositions during the day, and also during their lives? Who knows how far carefully-balanced, economically selected, properly cooked, daintily served, and easily-digested meals might go to keep the doctor, the wolf, and even the divorce lawyer from your door? Won't you let the Red Cross, through its course in home dietetics, help you to find out?—Red Cross Bulletin.

W. T. Rankin, Jr., ex-'20, is president of a cotton mill in Gastonia, N.C. M. R. Bernhardt, ex-'20, was a visitor on the Hill for the basketball game Friday night.

The editor-in-chief states that he will appreciate any assistance that the students can give him in supplying material for the Annual. At present, there is a great need for humorous dope rather than for any other, but all cartoons and other work will be gladly accepted.

STOP AND SEE
Cunningham, the Barber
If I can please you, tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.

Full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.
Next to Pressing Club

TAILORS
DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
ALTERING
MURRAY COMPANY
In front of Western Union Telegraph Co.
316 TRYON ST.
Phone 429 and a man will come over with the latest styles and patterns for college men on the market. We make a specialty of young men’s garments.

L. B. HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Junior Speaking Will Soon Be Here
Get ready by ordering a nifty tailored suit. Traymore Tailoring Co. has 400 new samples on display. Drop in and look them over.
MATTHEWS & WILSON
16 Chambers