Latest Dope From Enemies’ Camps

Gleanings From Athletic Columns Show Good Prospects for All Davidson’s Opponents

N. C. State.
Coach Bill Fetzer’s gridiron warriors at N. C. State are now out in full force, numbering some 50 or more. The prospects seem bright and enthusiasm runs high up in the Red and White camp. With all of last year’s team back, except two linesmen, the Tech eleven this year should be expected to turn in another good card when the season is over. Of the veterans to return are in the backfield, Faucett, Gurley, Pierson and probably Murray, even though he is property of the Yankee baseball nine. In the line are Kirkpatrick at end, Weathers and Ripple at tackles, Floyd at guard. Johnnie Johnson, former Wildcat star, is also out. The Tech schedule includes Davidson, Navy, Georgetown, Penn. State, Carolina, V. M. I., William and Mary, V. P. I., Wofford, and Wake Forest.

Georgia Tech.
From the Golden Tornado stronghold down in the Cracker State, comes the news that everything is rosy, concerning another championship eleven. Practice began the first of last week, and reports say that Grant field is the scene of much haste to and fro, as the 70 odd pigskin chasers go to their task. Of last year’s Varsity squad, four will be missing: Pup Phillips, Ham Dowling, Shorty Guill and big Huffines, star tackle for two years. Familiar faces back this year include Geiche, McDonough, Mayer, Lebey, Webb, Ferst, Staton, Amis, Barron, Granger, McRae, Lyman, and last but not least, “Buck” Flowers, youthful star, who used to perform on the Red and Black machine of ’17.

Wake Forest.
The Baptists are out in full strength this year and are hard at work, getting in shape for the opening fray on September 25, when they run into the Golden Tornado of Georgia Tech at Atlanta. Coach White has the candidates, who number upwards of 40, working hard and expects to turn out a sturdy team. Those who are showing up to a good advantage are Heckman, Johnston, Pravatt, Smith, at end; Pierce, Blackshear, Lee, at tackle; Moss, Brundy, Johnston, Molman, at guard; Taylor, Wall, Knight, at center; Rabenhorst, Fulton, Armstrong, Jennette, Benton, Matthews and Williams, in the backfield.

Richmond College.
Practice began in the Spider camp on the 13th. This may be a bad omen and it may not, but from all accounts prospects are indeed bright. By the way, it is not Richmond College any longer, but the University of Richmond, if you please. With an enlarged schedule, it is a necessity that some hard licks be put in. Only two men of last year’s Varsity squad will be lost, Kidd at center, and Shepherd at guard. Those to return in the backfield are Ziegler, Spencer, Snead, Jones and Blankenship. In the line, Captain Broaddus, Carter, Price, Klevesahl and Robins will return.

University of N. C.
The Tar-Babies opened practice on Monday, the 6th. The early bird catches the worm—maybe? Prospects are bright with 10 letter men as a nucleus back, around which to build a fighting team. Marion E. Fuller, formerly of West Virginia, is head coach and assisted by Clay Wyatt, former quarterback of the same place, the two are whipping the line and backfield respectively into shape. Captain Harrell, star tackle for past three years, is back and seems as good as ever. Other veterans include Pritchard, Jacobi, Lowe, Pharr, Griffith, Abernathy, Tenny, Cochrane and Spaugh. Many new men are out and last year’s scrubs are putting up a game fight for first string berths.

University of S. C.
The Gamecocks opened up last week with 30 men answering Coach Metzer’s call for football candidates. Speed and weight alike are to be found among the candidates and a formidable eleven is expected. Of last year’s Varsity to return are Smith, captain and center of statewide reputation; Brockington and Smith, ends; Thomas and Marion, guards; Blout at half, Timmons at quarter, Brady, Waite and Lightsey, guards, and McMillan at tackle, conclude the list. The Gamecocks have a heavy schedule this season, including Wofford, Un. of Georgia, Un. of N. C., Presbyterian College, Clemson, Davidson, Navy, Newberry and Citadel.

RULES GOVERNING CONDUCT OF FRESHMEN
1. Freshmen will be required to wear regulation caps. This cap shall be of the jockey type and shall be made of black wool or felt, with a red button on top and a green “F” in front just above the bill. Caps shall be worn at all times except when off the hill or when on drill or otherwise actively engaged in military duty, or when engagedin athletic activities.
2. Freshmen shall be required to attend all intercollegiate contests on the hill.
3. Freshmen shall remain seated after Chapel till both aisles are cleared of upperclassmen.
4. No Freshman shall at any time be guilty of jibing, wearing class numerals, singing class songs, or giving class yells, or of making himself conspicuous in any way.

Vigilance Committee.
1. For the purpose of enforcing the Freshman Conduct Regulations as laid down in Amendment, there shall be created a Vigilance Committee.
2. This committee shall be composed of 20 members, 10 of whom shall be chosen from the Senior class and five from each of the two upper classes respectively.
3. The president of the student body shall act as chairman of this committee, and shall not later than the opening of college appoint its members, subject to the approval of the Student Council.
4. The members of this committee shall at all times be responsible to the Student Council for the conduct of Freshmen, and changes in its membership may be made at the discretion of the Student Council.
5. Any Freshman guilty of the violation of part or parts of the provisions of Amendment shall on his first offense be warned by the vigilance committee. On second offense, there shall be appointed, by the vigilance committee, for the offender, a supervisor or guardian who shall be a Senior, whom he must obey at all times. Should this guardian make unusual or unnecessary demands, the offender Freshman shall obey, but he may immediately appeal to the vigilance committee, where his claims shall be heard, and if in the opinion of the committee they are well-founded, his guardian shall be dismissed and a new one appointed. If on account of good behavior a member of the vigilance committee should recommend, for a Freshman who has been under supervision for at least 60 days, release, a vote shall be taken and if a majority of two-thirds of the members present vote to suspend supervision, provided that at all times there shall be a quorum present, the guardian shall be dismissed and the Freshman shall at once assume the normal status of a Freshman. Should this same Freshman again become offensive, his case shall be taken up in the Student Council for action.

Mecklenburg Chero-Cola Company
ARCH. B. TAYLOR, ’11, Manager

Sprunt Field Scene of Championship Game
Chadwick-Hoskins Bests Cornelius in Final Snappy Contest

In a game which nearly equaled the Junior-Senior battle of last year in which contest had it not been for Center Brady’s headwork, it would have been equaled, the Chadwick-Hoskins team, champions of Charlotte, defeated the strong Cornelius aggregation, winner of the county title. Grandpa, the baby, and all the rest of the family were there, even the cooks with the policemen were on hand. The metropolis of Davidson took on the appearance of a Billy Sunday revival in Chicago, or an announcement in New York that “Babe” Ruth was scheduled to slam out three homers. The Davidson police force, namely Hon “Cop” Johnson, was kept very busy handling the large crowd. Everyone was held in the greatest excitement throughout the game. One young lady was heard to remark when a runner was on third, that she knew that the bad man with the stick was trying to score him. Comedian Richards was heard to remark that First-Sacker Barnett was singing a wonderful First Base. Old? well Horror of Horrors. Here is one which Noah pulled on the Ark when the “Flea” nine was playing the terrible “cooties,” “If door had been pitching, he would surely have shut them out.”

Some female colleges have started a course in “Spending.” May the fates grant that we never have the misfortune of marrying one of the graduates of this course—the amateurs are bad enough.

Score, Chadwick-Hoskins 2; Cornelius 1.

Sports---

Are now on with the passing of baseball. We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting Goods. Call or write us.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN.
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon) Phone 3248

FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 17 and 18

OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Case

ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
PAULINE LORIMER and JOHNNY CABREY
“Four Feet that Beat as One”
J. WARREN KEANE and GRACE WHITE
“And the Ace Was Still on Top”
WARDELL and DARCOURT
“In a Clever Comedy Oddity”
EDITH HELENA
The Well Known Grand Opera Star
SHIRLEY and BIRBECK
The Mysterious Blacksmith

The ADVERTISERS in This Paper Are Responsible for Four-Fifths of Its Expenses. PATRONIZE THEM and TELL THEM WHY.