7 ; FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ': “The Livest Wire on the Hill” Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
R. CASSELL

Managing Editor
RICHARDS

Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. ORMOND

Assignment Editor
R. DOUBLES

Athletic Editor
C. J. Alumni Editor
J. KIL

Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE, JR.

Forum Editor
Campus Editor
W. ROBERTS

Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL

Social Editor
J. M. GASTON

Literary Editor
R. R. MOCILW.

Reid Photographer

CLUB REPORTERS:
McGUIRE, E. H.
McKEITHEN, J. H.
GAMBLE, W. A.
GILMER, J. M.
MITCHELL, A. M.
TULLER, C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN
Business Manager

E. A. NASH
Assistant Managers
MING, W. P.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG
Circulation Manager

J. C. WOOL
Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Hurrah! Just 20 days until “we pack our grips and take a trip” back to the “best old college in the East or West.” Have you been talking Davidson this summer? While we do not need any more students, since the maximum has been reached, let everybody know just what kind of a school we have up there. What do you think of five hundred for our student body? We must now concentrate as never before on the “Better Davidson.” Don’t make the mistake of entering college a week or so late this fall. Be prompt, for a good start is half the cause of a successful year. Congratulations to the new men who have chosen Davidson for their college! You will never regret it, and you will be gladly received into the Wildcat family. You will be coming to a democratic campus, new men, so don't be afraid to speak to the other fellows. The days will seem brighter and happier if you do this. Let's not forget that we owe the incoming class something. Be their friend at all times, ready to help, advise and encourage at every opportunity.

A NEW ERA IN ATHLETICS.

This Fall will mark the beginning of a new era in Red and Black athletics. For the first time football practice will get under way before college opens, and also a training table is being provided for every branch of sports. We gladly take this opportunity to urge that all the old football men as well as any new men of any experience at all be prompt in answering Coach Grey’s call to report on September 1st. Prospects were never brighter and with such a start in getting into trim we should have no worry for the coming season. Then the training table is going to fill a need that has long been felt at our college, for it is rather a difficult task for men to keep training, eating here and there. Along this line we would most earnestly plead that every man regard his pledge as a thing of highest honor, and something that must be kept at all hazards. There was something lacking in last year’s team — what it was there is no use to mention — but this fall we cannot allow a recurrence. Let us repeat, men, give due heed to Coach Grey’s call, and report September 1st with the unconquerable purpose to give yourself unselfishly to old Davidson and to do your best to put her name high in the annals of football for the coming season.

J.E.C.

TO OBEY AND SERVE.

Not many weeks will elapse before the opening of college will be upon us, and we will find ourselves facing another year of either work or play just as we choose to make it. It is to be hoped that the man who takes the latter course will be far in the minority, and that he will soon find that Davidson has no use for the sluggard. In this connection the question can be asked what does it mean to you to be a college man, and especially a student at Davidson College? What is it meaning in your present life as well as how it is going to affect your future? Do you think of college as a place only for pleasure or a place for real work? Does it mean that college is a place to get everything and to give nothing? Or does it mean that it is the fitting school for a life of unselfish service? The hard-working, sensible student readily knows that college is the training camp wherein he is fitting himself for a future life of service to his fellowmen, yet many are the boys who deviate from this correct path by thinking that school is a playground wherein he is the one to be served. The error of his choosing is plain and disastrous if not remedied. It is this class of old as well as new men who should call a halt and incorporate in themselves the truer and higher purpose. Put away the idea that college is the place of no restrictions where you are free to do what you please just as a young colt in a boundless pasture. Remember that your institution is connected to you in the position of in loco parentis, and that you owe true obedience to all her rules and traditions. Without this obedience your career is doomed to failure. Then to the student who thinks continually of himself and nothing else, why not experience a change of heart? Determine that you will put away the selfish way of living, and that you will serve your fellow students and institution in every way possible, though at times it may seem ever so humble. Unless such a change is made you will awake to find that you have cheated yourself of many advantages of college life which will be gone forever. This year we are going to reach the high water mark in numbers, and if five hundred students will enter our college this fall imbued with the purpose of obeying her regulations and traditions and placing her welfare and betterment first at all times, then indeed we have made a wonderful start on a real successful year of work.

J. E.C.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.

This year will see a fellow

September 25th—N. C. State, at Raleigh, N. C.
October 2nd—Washington & Lee, at Lexington, Va.
October 9th—Georgia Tech, at Atlanta, Ga.
October 16th—Wake Forest, at Charlotte, N. C.
October 23rd—Richmond College, at Richmond, Va.
October 30th—The Citadel, at Charlotte, N. C.
November 6th—University of S. C., at Davidson, N. C.
November 13th—University of N. C., at Winston-Salem, N. C.
November 19th—Presbyterian College of S. C., at Clinton, S. C.
November 25th—Furman University, at Greenville, S. C.

of work and the scientific spirit in those studying in this department.

BIBLE AND PHILOSOPHY.

The Freshman Class in Bible will be divided into four sections and taught by Drs. Richards and Sentelle. Sophomore Bible will be taught in two sections by Dr. Sentelle. Dr. Frazer Hood will have charge of all work in Psychology. The usual course will be given in Senior Philosophy. The work for the first term will be in Ethics, for the second term in the History of Philosophy. Hyde’s Five Great Philosophies of Life, Mecklin’s Social Ethics and Cushman’s two-volume History of Philosophy will be used as texts. Assignments in reading will be made from Rand’s Classical Philosophers and Moralists.

CHEMISTRY.

A few interesting changes will be made in the Chemistry Department this session. First, this is the last session that a second course in General Chemistry will be offered. Henceforth B.S. Freshmen will be offered a more thorough course in General Chemistry than has for some years been offered to Freshmen. This course will include two periods of laboratory work, which will make it the equivalent of eight semester hours. This will satisfthe requirements of first-class medical colleges. In order to accommodate the needs of this class, we expect to construct a new balance room, which will be equipped with new balances. There will be two sections of this class. One section will be composed of students who have studied High School Chemistry and of Sophomores and Juniors who take up Chemistry for the first time at Davidson. It will be possible to study many phases of General Chemistry in this section, especially in the laboratory, that will not be undertaken in the other section, which will make those who have studied Chemistry in High School feel that they are not repeating work already done. This course is designed to give students who have studied some Chemistry a true appreciation of the contents of this wonderful science, especially as it touches the many practical things that are suggested by the marvelous industrial development of this day.

Second, the next course in Chemistry, which will be open to Sophomores in the B.S., who have taken Chemistry 1, and to students of higher classes who have had one year of General Chemistry, will be devoted to both Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis. This course will not be called for this session, as students of last year who took Chemistry 1 will be given a chance to study the old Chemistry 2, which is advanced General Chemistry, and those who have taken the old Chemistry 2 will be ready to take Qualitative Analysis. On consultation, those students who are preparing for medicine in two years will be permitted to pass from Chemistry 1 of last year into Chemistry 3, which is Qualitative Analysis and Organic Chemistry.

Third, after this year the third course in Chemistry will be Organic Chemistry. A whole year will be given to this, which will greatly increase the value of the course, particularly to medical students.

Fourth, for students who are making Chemistry a specialty, an advanced course in General Chemistry and Physical Chemistry is provided and also an advanced course in Quantitative Analysis, which will involve the determinations that are of special value in industrial work. This course as outlined offers larger opportunities for the study of Chemistry at Davidson and enables pre-medical students to secure adequate training in Chemistry. Now that B.A. Freshmen cannot study Chemistry, it is most important that those who desire to include it in their course should try to take it in the Sophomore year. Only thus will they be able to get in a second year of Chemistry during their college course.

APPLIED MATHEMATICS.

The Department of Applied Mathematics offers three elective courses which are open to students of the Junior and Senior classes, and aims to supply courses of a practical nature, which will help the student to apply the principles he has already learned. The course in Applied Mathematics I is designed to teach the student the principles of Plane Surveying and of Highway Location and construction. The class is divided into sections and each man actually handles all the instruments commonly used in surveying. Three hours of class work and six hours of field work are required throughout the session.

In Applied Mathematics II course the student is taught to draw by mechanical means. The elements of Mechanical Drawing and of Descriptive Geometry are studied, and each man is required to make working drawings of concrete objects at intervals throughout the year. The course aims to familiarize the student with the different ways of representing objects on paper, and requires ten hours of work a week.

To those students who desire to become familiar with the larger stars and constellations, a course in Astronomy is offered. The class is shown how to find the true North and to determine Latitude and Time. Three hours a week and occasional night classes are required. All classes will be taught by Prof. Wood.

Outline of Courses

BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT.

The Biology courses are designed to give a general knowledge of the fundamental principles of biological science, such as is needed in a general education and by those expecting to study medicine. Two new courses have been added to the curriculum. Biology III is an advanced course in plant morphology and physiology open to all students who have completed Biology I. There will be two lectures and six hours of laboratory work each week. Biology VI is an advanced course in Histology and Comparative Anatomy. Its object is to acquaint the student with the microscopic structure of cells, tissues, and organs and to give him training in histological technique. The relation of Histology to Pathology and Anatomy is kept in view. The part of the course devoted to Comparative Anatomy is a study of the higher vertebrates and a complete dissection is made of some mammalian types. There will be three recitations and six hours of laboratory work per week. New tables are in the process of construction to accommodate thirty-six students at one time. Each student will be provided with ample materials for dissection. Dissection instruments and drawing paper are furnished by the department at cost. Four new microscopes have been provided and demonstration slides will be in daily use. It is attempted to make the student in his laboratory work see and draw things for himself, the final object being not so much to teach the facts of the science as to inculcate independence.

THE ENGLISH DEPARTMENT.

During the coming session, Davidson will have two full professors of English, both of whom will devote their entire teaching time to the work of the department. English 1, required of all Freshmen, will meet three times a week instead of twice, as formerly, and will include not only the usual study of composition and the analysis of selections from contemporary American prose, but also a survey of American literature. The class will be taught in four sections. In English 2, required of all Sophomores, several hundred pages of English poetry and prose representing the various types and periods will be read. The history of English literature will be traced in its main outlines, and the practical work in composition begun in the Freshman year will be continued. This class will also be taught in four sections, in order that each student may receive a good deal of personal attention from the professor. The work of these two courses will be equally divided between Dr. Shewmake and Professor Erwin, each of whom will have two sections of Freshman English and two of Sophomore.

Two elective courses will be offered. Dr. Shewmake will have charge of English 4, an advanced course in American literature, with special attention to Poe, Hawthorne, and Emerson during the first term and to later American writers during the second term. Professor Erwin will teach English 5, a course in advanced composition thus explained in the new catalogue of the college: “The principles of narration, of exposition, and of argumentation are studied, and these are applied not only in the analysis of typical short stories, essays, orations, and debates, but in the writing of compositions in all these forms. The course is particularly recommended to students who feel the need of training in the preparation of speeches and to those who wish to write for publication.” Courses in English usage, Old English, Chaucer, the Elizabethan drama, seventeenth-century English literature, English prose of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and Victorian poetry have been planned for the year 1921-1922.

LATIN.

All classes will be taught by Dr. Grey. There will be three courses scheduled as Latin I, II, and III. Latin I will be taught in two sections and will embrace courses in Quintus Curtius, Cicero’s De Senectute, and Livy with a study of the grammar through the case constructions and weekly exercises in Latin prose composition. Latin II for Sophomores: Texts, Livy and Horace, including a study of the meters of Horace. The study of the grammar will be continued throughout the year along with more advanced Latin prose composition. Latin III, for students who have completed courses I and II, will include the translation of several of the plays of Plautus and Terence and thirteen satires of Juvenal, courses in prose composition and in Latin literature. All classes will recite three times a week.