THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

Fiction Library
The Latest Books of fiction rented for 2c a day. New books added frequently.
The Macamac Company
At the Powerhouse
“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Beebie Guarantee, Free Tuning
Write for Catalogue, Prices and “THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO” and other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO.
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Music Warehouses
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Dr. C. M. Richards Delivers Inspiring Sermon
Urged All to Have a Definite Purpose in Life—Largest Congregation Ever Assembled at Davidson

Speaking to one of the largest congregations Davidson has ever seen, Dr. Richards in his Sunday sermon, pointed out the
vital importance of a Definite Purpose in the Christian life. The speaker took his text from the twelfth chapter of
Second Chronicles, in which the sacred historian spoke of Rehoboam as a failure “Because he prepared not his heart to
seek the Lord.” As in the life of this king of Israel, so in every life or undertaking confusion is
wrought by the lack of purpose.

Dr. Richards showed how foolish it would be to begin a building without a plan, to start in business without
an aim, to build a character without some goal higher than that of morality. “No man ever did right, who
did not have a definite purpose,” therefore he urged everyone in the congregation, at the beginning of this new college
year, to set a definite purpose that will take them to God.

Turning to the students he asked them what was their purpose of coming to college. If their aim was just
to be coming, he said that their reports would be Sixties and Seventies interspersed with re-examinations. Instead of this lack
of purpose he appealed to them to have a definite one so that at the end of their college course
they will be men, four-square, well trained and equipped to go forth worthy sons of such a Mother.

He then pointed out that this would be no easy task, for Davidson is not Heaven, neither does it rest
under any millennial light. Only men who have their hearts fixed to go all the way with the risen Christ
may ever hope to attain the rewards of Eternity. Every member of the congregation must have felt the inspiration of
this strong sermon for right living, and went away fully determined to let nothing hinder them in accomplishing the highest
goal of all, that of seeking the Kingdom of God and His righteousness.

VOLUNTEER BAND.
At the meeting of the Volunteers held Sunday afternoon, committees were appointed and plans discussed to make this the livest
Volunteer year Davidson has ever known. The following committee chairmen were appointed: G. Manze, Historical; L. Dick, Finance; Cumming, Deputation;
Mac Richards, Social; Price, Library; Crane, Program. The officers for the year are Dave, President; Crane, Vice President; G. Manze,
Secretary; Cumming, Corresponding Sec; Dick, Treasurer.

The Volunteer Band is composed of students who are interested in foreign mission work and have signified their purpose to
go out as missionaries. All students interested in international religious problems are invited to attend the Band meetings which are
held in the parlor of the Library each Sunday at 12:15.

William Joseph Martin, Jr., son of Dr. Martin, and now a cadet at the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis,
has been at home for a few days’ visit.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future.
For information address,
The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President
Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

MISSION STUDY CLASSES.
“Faiths of Mankind” by Soper, will be the text for the Mission Study Classes this fall. This interesting study presents
a sympathetic examination of the main elements in Hinduism, Buddhism, Mohammedanism, Confucianism.Shintoism, Parseeism, and Judaism and compares their teachings with
those of the Christian faith. Everyone who decides to take up this course will find it at once fascinating and
highly rewarding. Classes will begin Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. For the convenience of those who take up this study,
there will be a class on every floor and two in town.

ELEGANCE AND CHARACTER ARE MARKED FEATURES NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain the ‘eminence of elegance’ and the tailoring is handled in so
smart a manner as to ensure absolute shape-permanence and grace in fit and drape. We welcome a visit to this
young men’s section where the fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK” HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS THE TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE

Y. M. C. A. PLANS EXTENSIVE SOCIAL SERVICE.

This space reserved for Southern Life and Trust Co. Greensboro, N. C.

In the work of the Social Service Committee of the “Y” this year there is a great opportunity to be
of real service to one’s fellow men. The work will not only fall along the line of Sunday Schools, but
there will be playground and boy scout work, as well as teaching in one or two night classes. The plan
of the committee is to have a series of stereopticon lectures at the Mill Chapel in order to arouse interest
in the Sunday School work there. The playground work, the work among the boys, and the night classes will gradually
grow from this beginning. The committee hopes also to do some work among the colored people of Davidson.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, The Rexall Store

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR.

The Davidson Christian Endeavor Society held a most encouraging and enthusiastic meeting last Sunday afternoon. The attendance was splendid, and
it is hoped that the many new men present will become regular members. The outlook for the autumn work is
far more promising than at any other time in the history of the Society. The students who have been Christian
Endeavors in their home towns will have an opportunity to enter a real live-wire organization. The various efficiency contests and
unusual social features, now being planned, will make the Society work a thing you cannot afford to miss. Come out
next Sunday and see what an “up-to-the-minute” C. E. looks like.

Pittsburgh, Pa. Founded by the General Assembly 1825

A Seminary for College Graduates

A complete modern theological curriculum with elective courses leading to the degree of B.D., is offered to students of all
denominations. Graduate courses of the University of Pittsburgh, leading to degrees of A.M., and Ph.D., are open to properly qualified
students of the Seminary. Exceptional library facilities. Two entrance prizes of $150 each. Fellowship of $500. All buildings are new,
with latest modern improvements. Social hall, gymnasium, and students’ commons. For information apply to President James A. Kelso, Ph.D., D.D.,
LL.D.

A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia.

Send us your Mail Orders. We fill them promptly.

When using an implement bearing the Spalding trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them.
The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee of quality and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

We have on display our new fall suits, made of material and styles that all college boys like. Come in
and see what wonderful values we have to offer. In these lines you will find Schloss-Hamburger and Style-Plus as well
as other standard makes. These are made of all wool serge and fancy worsteds, single or double-breasted models.

$29.50 $39.50 $45.00 $49.50 $60.00

NEW FALL HATS

Stetson, Vanity, Roclof new fall hats are here—the very latest styles for young men.

$5.00 $6.00 $6.50 $7.50 $8.50 Up

GENTS’ FURNISHING DEPARTMENT

Men's Dress Shirts made of best grade percale and madras—beautiful patterns.

$2.50 $3.00 $3.50 $3.95

Men's Silk Shirts—big range of patterns

$4.95 $6.95 $7.95 $8.95

Men’s Silk Sox—all colors

79¢ $1.00 $1.15

Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager
