oO THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

ALUMNI

DAVIDSON ALUMNI OF GASTON COUNTY FORM ORGANIZATION

Students and Alumni Have Banquet and Form Permanent Organization in County.

What the Alumni Can Do to Help Davidson

RECEIVES LETTER FROM WOODROW WILSON

First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia Recipient of Beautiful Letter of Appreciation From President Wilson as Result of Recent Benefaction to Davidson College.

ALUMNI CHAIR $50,000

ONE-HALF MILLION DOLLAR FUND FOR DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

In consideration of other subscriptions for the purpose of securing $500,000 for Davidson College by March 1st, 1920, I promise to pay to the Trustees of Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., the sum of Dollars

President Miller Calls On Davidson Men for Loyalty

By R. M. Miller, Jr., President Alumni Association.

A few days ago the alumni and students of Davidson College in Gaston County, N.C., met in the Armington Hotel, in Gastonia, and after a delightful banquet, formed a permanent organization known as the Association of Davidson College in Gaston County. Mr. S. A. Robinson was elected president, and Mr. H. A. Query, secretary and treasurer.

County Supt. F. P. Hall, ’87, acted as toastmaster. Following a short speech of welcome by Mr. H. A. Query, and a response on the part of the Davidson student body by Mr. Henry Wilson, Dr. J. M. McConnell, professor of history at Davidson, delivered an interesting address on the “By-Products of the War,” more particularly as they affect education. Following Dr. McConnell’s address, brief talks were made by Rev. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, and Messrs. S. A. Robinson, F. L. Smyre, R. H. Ratchford, R. D. Hall, D. R. LaFar, Jr., and others.

In addition to the above-mentioned officers, the following named vice-presidents were elected: Messrs. R. D. Hall, of Belmont; L. A. Springs, of Mt. Holly; J. A. Ormand, of Bessemer City; Rev. J. J. Harrell, of Cherryville Township; J. P. Hoofman, of Dallas, and T. Henry Wilson, of Gastonia.

One of the first efforts of this organization will be an endeavor to stage more college athletic contests in Gastonia. They believe that the people of the county will patronize baseball and football games between the various colleges of the Carolinas, and steps are to be taken to induce team managers to stage more college games in that place.

OLDEST ALUMNUS PASSES AWAY

Prof. J. H. Hill Succumbs to Old Age.

The college has just been saddened by the death at 87 years of one of her oldest and most honored trustees, Prof. J. Henry Hill, of Statesville. Professor Hill graduated in 1854 at the head of his class. He taught for some years in Mitchell College and then took up work in the Statesville high school, where, for almost a generation, he was the superintendent and only man teacher. About 15 years ago he resigned his position and ran a small fire insurance and real estate agency which he continued almost up until the time of his death.

The professor is described by one who knew him as one of those saintly old gentlemen who never did anything especially remarkable but who spent his life in doing little kindnesses here and there. He was greatly respected and honored by his community, being sent several times to the legislature and being given other public offices. He has been for a long time senior elder in his church. He has always warmly supported the college, having sent three sons and a grandson here. His death is mourned by all.

CHARLOTTE ALUMNI HOLD MEETING

A meeting of the alumni of Davidson residing in Charlotte was held in the dining room of the Southern Manufacturer’s Club, Tuesday evening, January 13. The purpose of the meeting was to get together and complete the organization of the association. There are several alumni associations in Charlotte, representing the various colleges of this and other states. The Davidson alumni are planning to have the best organization in Charlotte. This association will mean a source of strength from which the various organizations of Davidson draw when needing support in Charlotte—in the way of publicity, co-operation, etc.

The bulletin of the day’s service at the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia a few Sundays ago contained the following letter:

“My dear Mr. Henderlite:

“It will always be a matter of profound gratification to me that the officers and people of the Gastonia Church should have deemed me worthy of the great honor they have conferred upon me in endowing at Davidson College a professorship to bear my name.

“Such evidence of friendship and confidence is a great tonic to one in the midst of difficult affairs, and I am keenly conscious of standing in need of the support of thoughtful people and of the understanding regard of my fellow citizens.

“Cordially and sincerely yours,

“WOODROW WILSON.”

It will be remembered that this congregation recently raised the sum for the Wilson Chair of Economics and Political Science at Davidson.

ROBERT BROADNAX GLENN.

Perhaps one of the most noted of Davidson's alumni is Robert Broadnax Glenn, ex-governor of North Carolina. He was born in 1854. Upon leaving Davidson he went to the University of Virginia to continue his studies, and from there entered Pearson's Law School. He was born in Greensboro, N.C., on May 28, 1864, and is the son of Rev. Henry Smith, who is well known to many in this state. Dr. Smith received his A.B. degree from Davidson College in 1884, and the Master’s degree in 1887. Following this he took his Ph.D. at John’s Hopkins in 1893, and he also has the LL.D. and L.H.D. degrees from other universities, in addition to foreign study.

After completing his course, he went to Danbury, N.C., where he began his law practice. He at once showed himself a man of extraordinary ability and was rapidly promoted from one important position to another.As a university student, Dr. Smith began to teach, and, except for brief intermissions for further study, usually abroad, he has been engaged in that work continually. He has served as an instructor or professor at the following colleges and universities: Johns Hopkins, Louisiana State University, University of N.C., University of Virginia, and the University of Berlin. In 1917, he was appointed head of the Department of English at the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., and he is still holding this position. Dr. Smith is well known in the East and South as an author and writer as well as a distinguished professor, and is an able contributor to several periodicals. He is a member of the Modern Language Association of America and also of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. Davidson takes great pride in the accomplishments of this honored alumnus.

BALLENTINE-PERRY.

Of interest to their many friends throughout the Carolinas and to Davidson alumni in general is the announcement of the marriage on Tuesday afternoon, December 30, of Miss Lake Eva Ballentine, of Easley, S.C., and Roy Perry, ’16. The wedding was a very quiet one, only the members of the two families and a few intimate friends being present. The bride, who is the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. Lee Ballentine, has many friends over the entire state who will be interested in her wedding. She is a graduate of Columbia College and has taught school near Easley for three years. Mr. Perry is now engaged in business with the Parks-Cramer Co., of Charlotte, N.C., in which city he and Mrs. Perry will make their home after January 5, when they return from the North, where they went on their honeymoon.

Davidson has been blessed with the safe return of all but 19 that were called upon to render the supreme sacrifice. A great number have suffered grievous wounds and were afflicted with that dreaded disease. But that same guardian spirit manifested itself by not permitting them to give up hope, so that they came back safely. And in all lines of leadership, Davidson men head the list and are leading men on to success. And think not that because the war is over that this same spirit has ceased, for everywhere it is seen to be working and using the alumni of Davidson to do its work; and they are rendering equally as great service in time of peace.

He became a member of the legislature in 1881. This added greatly to his reputation and he became attorney for the Southern Railway Company and the Western Union Telegraph Co. In 1886, he became state solicitor; in 1893, he was made U.S. district attorney. Finally, in 1905, he reached the climax of his career when he became governor of the state. Military men will be interested to note that he was for a time major in the National Guard. He is now living in retirement at his home in Winston-Salem.

Rev. H.S. Bedinger, 'I, recently returned from his chaplaincy overseas, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Hartsville, S.C.

Davidson Alumnus, Are You Backing Your College Paper?

We are mailing a copy of this issue to all the Alumni. In this paper, we have tried to portray the college life and conditions at college. We hope that you will like this paper. There are 17 more issues to follow this spring—issues that perhaps may be more interesting and attractive than this one. The South Carolina College Press Association met at Columbia, S.C. in November, and in a session declared The Davidsonian to be the best college paper in the South and should be held up as an example to others. Won't you help us live up to this reputation by sending in your subscription to the remainder of the term? Enclose your name and address with $1.00 in an envelope and mail to The Davidsonian and your name will be entered for the remainder of the term. If you haven’t the dollar, send your name and address—we will get the dollar later. Help us make The Davidsonian the BEST COLLEGE WEEKLY IN AMERICA.

Enclosed please find One Dollar for subscription to The Davidsonian for the remainder of this term. Tear out and mail to The Davidsonian, Davidson, N.C.

This is the kind of loyalty that we alumni must cherish for our alma mater if we would see Davidson placed where she rightfully belongs—at the top. Be liberal in support of the college and its subsidiaries. Liberality does not mean extravagance, as some seem to interpret it, nor does it mean that we should be narrow and selfish in our views, but, to the contrary, it carries with it always the idea of generosity, magnanimity, and at times, self-sacrifice. I realize that many of the alumni of Davidson are not in a position, financially, to contribute as largely or as liberally as their loyalty would dictate and yet, I believe that it is altogether possible for every alumnus, in some way or somehow, to contribute something in aid of the college—the spirit that prompts the giving is the spirit that will win.

Davidson, however, has among her alumni or friends associated directly with the college, men who could individually and without embarrassment, endow an alumni chair, which would be, for all time, a living monument to their generosity and loyalty. Davidson needs an alumni chair. As at present constituted, the college is well equipped for sending out the professional man, the minister, the lawyer, the teacher, etc., but is woefully deficient in the science of present-day business and how to promote and foster our material resources and develop the methods of living well for our country, family, and individuals. No one will question the value and importance of a business training in connection with a profession—the lawyer is a better lawyer, the minister is a better minister and the teacher is a better teacher if a broad, comprehensive, and practical knowledge of business is combined with his profession. In these days of large business affairs, the average young college graduate, going out to meet these real and major conditions of life, is seriously handicapped because of the lack of this practical teaching.

(Continued on page 11)

TO THE ALUMNI WHO WERE IN SERVICE.

The Librarian is trying to secure a complete record of our men in all the various branches of the war. A circular letter has been sent to each name on our soldier list and a large number have responded giving all the information wanted. Several of these letters have been returned unclaimed and we are assured that there are some whose names we have not. If you have not already sent in the facts connected with your enlistment, please give by first mail the date of entry and the date of discharge, adding any matters of interest that you would like to have on file at your Alma Mater. Make the statement a full one. Please do this as soon as you read this item. To delay means, in so many cases, that you will forget.

LIBRARIAN OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE.