PERFECT PRINTING PLATES

PRESIDENT WILSON ASKS COLLEGES TO CELEBRATE LANDING OF PILGRIMS

December 21 Set As Day for Memorial to Early American Settlers.

The President recently issued a proclamation calling upon the schools and colleges of the country to celebrate the three hundredth anniversary of the landing of the Pilgrims. A national commission to direct the movement has been established with three members appointed by the President and six by Congress. A great deal of literature on the subject has been received here but it is regretted that the examination schedule will probably make anything like an adequate celebration of the day impossible. The text of the President’s proclamation (abbreviated) follows:

“My Fellow Countrymen: December 21, next, the tercentenary of the landing of the Pilgrims, will be becomingly celebrated at Plymouth and at other localities in Massachusetts. While this is proper and praiseworthy, it seems to me that the influence which the Pilgrims have had upon our development and progress as a nation merits more than a local celebration and makes fitting a nationwide observance of the day.

“I therefore request that we observe the 21st of December, next, throughout the Union, and especially do I recommend that the day be fittingly observed in the universities, colleges and schools, that salutary and patriotic lessons may be drawn from the fortitude of this little band who established on this continent the first self-determined government, and thus planted the seeds from which has come the mighty nation.”

One student suggests that if we “observe the fortitude” of the Pilgrims when they were being shot at by Indians, we will be better able to handle ourselves in our conflicts with the faculty on December 21.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

The Hoover & Smith Co.

SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHERS DESERVE CREDIT

Caldwell, the Mill and Shearer Chapel teachers deserve credit for their perseverance in the face of such discouraging weather as they encountered last Sunday. They report the following attendance:

Caldwell—20 pupils, 4 teachers.
Mill—45 pupils, 3 teachers.
Shearer Chapel—32 pupils, 7 teachers.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

C. E. MISSIONARY SERVICE INTERESTS LARGE NUMBER

Work and Needs of Seven Countries Given in Novel Way.

A missionary service to which the Senior Christian Endeavor Society had been looking forward for several weeks was held last Sunday afternoon. Seven Endeavorers, three girls and four boys, presented the need of equipment in each of the seven countries in which the Presbyterian Church in the United States maintains mission stations. The boys wore armbands of flags of the countries they represented—Brazil, Africa, Mexico, Cuba, and the girls were in costume to represent China, Japan, and Korea. The speeches were well worked up and increased the missionary information of the audience.

After the appeals were made it was voted by those present, including Junior, Intermediate and Senior Endeavorers, students and townspeople, that the $50 which was to be given for equipment in one of the countries represented should go to Brazil, represented by Rolston Bitzer. Bitzer was given the privilege of presenting the check to the society treasurer.

The monthly consecration service of the society will be held Sunday afternoon. The topic will be “Progressive Living.” Each member is supposed to take part, and an interesting meeting is assured. Students will be cordially welcomed.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Miss Sarah Lingle, of Salem College, spent the past week with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. Lingle, having as her guests Misses Mary S. Parker, of Washington, N. C., and Georgia Riddle, of Morganton, N.C.

POCKET TESTAMENT LEAGUE PRAISED BY MR. MELL

“Y” Secretary From Rock Hill Relates History of the Movement at Sunday Evening Service.

“The step which has meant most to my life, outside of accepting Christ, was the one I took when I joined the Pocket Testament League,” said Mr. Mell during his talk last Sunday evening to the Y. M. C. A. Mr. Mell is the Y secretary at Rock Hill and is doing a wonderful work down there among the boys. In introducing him, Louis Schenck said: “I have worked under Mr. Mell and I want to say that nothing has given me greater pleasure than to work under such a man.”

The subject and theme of the talk was the Pocket Testament League. It was started, explained the speaker, by a young girl in England. She was interested in the good of those around her and thought that thiswould be a fine way to help them. This lady afterwards became the wife of the famous singer, Chas. M. Alexander. He, with the help of Dr. Torrey and Dr. Chapman, made the organization worldwide. Anyone can join the league upon the signing of the declaration card which says that it is the purpose of the one signing, to carry a Testament with him wherever he goes and to read a chapter from it every day. Mr. Mell went on to tell the different ways men read their Bibles. Some are spasmodic readers, reading whenever they feel so inclined; others are random readers, still others are consecutive readers, starting with Genesis and going through to Revelation; some read whole books and others study certain topics. The speaker said that he had read his Testament in every conceivable place, in trains, in airplanes and on boats. It was always by him, his closest friend. He closed with a strong appeal to all present to think over the matter seriously and if they see the way clear to definitely sign up with the league, and many of those present went forward to sign up for the Pocket Testament League.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

THANKSGIVING SERVICES HELD IN DAVIDSON COLLEGE CHURCH

At the Presbyterian Church Dr. Richards conducted the Thanksgiving service. In his address he related the blessing which God had given the American people during the past year and showed that the people of Davidson should be especially thankful for the many blessings which they had received during 1920. Beginning with the Pilgrim Fathers, he gave a short history of Thanksgiving, showing that the nation has always been a Christian nation and has enjoyed the blessings the Pilgrims sought when they came to America. The second of the great blessings God has given to America is its leading place among the nations. In the war her military power was recognized. In the government of the world she has much to say and much influence. There is hardly a great philanthropic movement in which America does not have a part or leads. America is greatly blessed, and along with those blessings comes a great responsibility to live right. The third great blessing of which Dr. Richards spoke was the past year of peace and plenty. This has not been a year of war to bring pain and death to the young men, and suffering and grief to the people, but it has been a year of plenty throughout the land. Crops and wages have been good and there has been no great epidemic of sickness or famine. In closing Dr. Richards showed by a very vivid comparison what a blessed country this is. He compared America with China and her 40,000,000 starving citizens and spoke of the 32,000,000 starving children in the Near East. A Thanksgiving offering of $175 was taken up for the Church’s wards at Barium Springs Orphanage.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Warlick spent Thanksgiving with Mrs. Woosley, their daughter.

Thanksgiving, and the flowers and grass of the field bloom and sway with delight.” He then pointed out that human beings should be as thankful, and even more so than nature. Following Dr. Arbuckle’s talk, each Endeavorer told of a blessing for which he was thankful, and carried a bag of apples to the front, where he helped fill a barrel, which was afterwards carried to Barium Springs. The service was closed by an appropriate solo by Miss Nina Holt White. This meeting shows that Intermediate Christian Endeavor work is worthwhile, and it will repay any man in college who is interested in Christian work to attend a service conducted by the wide-awake Intermediates of the Davidson Church.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

INTERMEDIATE CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR DOES GOOD WORK

Thanksgiving was appropriately observed by the Intermediate Christian Endeavorers of the Presbyterian Church at an early morning service on Thanksgiving day. About 30 happy girls and boys came together at 7:45 Thursday morning to express their appreciation for God’s goodness to them during the year. After a chain of short prayers, Dr. Arbuckle read the 103rd Psalm. Then he made the Intermediates a Thanksgiving talk, using as a text, Isaiah 55:12: “The mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands with joy.” He then pointed out that human beings should be as thankful, and even more so than nature. Following Dr. Arbuckle’s talk, each Endeavorer told of a blessing for which he was thankful, and carried a bag of apples to the front, where he helped fill a barrel, which was afterwards carried to Barium Springs. The service was closed by an appropriate solo by Miss Nina Holt White. This meeting shows that Intermediate Christian Endeavor work is worthwhile, and it will repay any man in college who is interested in Christian work to attend a service conducted by the wide-awake Intermediates of the Davidson Church.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

J. B. Reading, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance. He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

LIFE INSURANCE--A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

A Perfect Home Piano

Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning, Repairing, Moving

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
ESTABLISHED 1842
M. D. MANNING, Manager
219 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. McPHARTHERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.