THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1920.

Among the many friends of John D. Wiley who have been favored by him with invitations to the commencement are found the following:

King and Queen of England.
King and Queen of Belgium.
President of France.
King of Italy.
Ferdinand Foch.
And his good old friend Woody Wilson.

“Solomon in all his glory must have been some bearcat,” but he was not to be compared unto a Marshal or an inter-collegiate debater.

“You can’t beat brains” suffered a decisive defeat at Friday's ball game.

J. M. Dunlap, Editor.

Frank Hall—“This don’t lack much of being a four-leaf clover.”
Stud Hyland—“What does it lack?”
F. H—“One leaf.”

Was it fear of rain or of something else that kept Guilford away on the 27th? Maybe they didn't like the sound of a no-hit game.

David L. (reflectively)—“Funny how ugly people often have good-looking children.”
Bugs—“You can’t ever tell how much brains a fellow has by the pins he sports. Look what a big badge a fraternity man wears.”
Fresh—“I got a good paddling last night. It reminded me of the kind mother used to make.”

How He Studied.
Miss Flip—“Have you the key to her heart?”
Logic L. J.—“Naw, but I know the combination.”

A new club has been organized by McGuken and Boyd called the Sigma Omicron Lambda (S. O. L.)

Why is it that the girl you want to hear from won't write worth a darn, while if you ain’t particular about hearing you get a letter every day?

Dr. and Mrs. Harding spent the week-end in Charlotte.

The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
(Which is the Same Method we use)
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings’ Department.

He sat in a chair, stuck his feet in the air,
And lit him a fat cigar.
And sitting there, with never a care
He thought of his darling afar.
So he sat entranced, and never once glanced,
At the books he should have perused
Till as time passed, and morning advanced,
He found himself taking a snooze.

When picking out a girl upon whom to shower your affections why not pick out a good-looking one? An ugly girl may be all right in a dark corner but dark corners are not always handy. A good-looking girl is a lot easier on your eyes.

We are receiving every day shipments of clothing from:
Campus Togs
Fashion Park
Hirsh Wickwire
and Kincaid & Kimball

Mail Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. J. Thompson, Cashier, J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., A. B. Beard, Assistant Cashier

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
616 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Booe’s Market

You don’t have to wait until night to call on a peach for fear someone you know will see you. Ice cream forA peach costs no more than for one who is ambitious of becoming a peach, believing that the day of miracles may come again. The admission to the theatre is the same for both varieties. No extra charge is made for her marriage license and in both cases the Old Man gives them away—presumably with pleasure. Of course, “beauty is but skin deep,” but who, pray, is going to skin her? While “ugly to the bone” may insinuate that she has a beautiful skeleton, who cares anything about that? It may be harder to find a pretty girl but it's worth the trouble.

Fresh Meats At All Times
There are none better or we would have them. Come look them over.
34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Froy Tailored SOFT COLLARS
L. B. LONG

HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold
J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.

General Electric WRITES INSURANCE
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

HERE’S A TRIUMPH FOR PROHIBITION
How It Has Furnished the World With a Valuable Beverage.

While the forces of prohibition were working to the end that alcohol should be banished from the U.S., there was one man who was working along a different line from either side in the question. For seven years this man labored in Chicago, to the perfection of an idea he had conceived, that lager beer had never in the past been properly made. When wartime prohibition became a fact, this man was not yet ready with the perfection of his idea, hence this new product, known as MINNEHAHA, pale and special (light and dark), goes back fifty years in brewing to the good old rich brew of the old country. Modern beer contained but little barley, being made mostly of corn, rice, grains, meals, etc. The new patent brew is made of only barley and hops; it is thoroughly fermented and aged for four months. It is thus rich in digestive properties and high flavor.

Just before filtering and pasteurization, the patent process is introduced, which by vacuum, and without boiling, removes the high wines (alcohol) but not one whit of the low wines (color and flavor). Taste alone would not and could not detect that the alcohol was absent. It proved to be exhilarating, however, because of the hops and carbonic gas. The Chicago scientist has proved that alcohol was not necessary in beer, that in fact it was a detriment, and so prohibition had a use it was never designed to, for it perfected brewing to a point never dreamed of before. Minnehaha, pale and special, will be shipped to any part of the United States by the Golden Grain Juice Co., Minneapolis, U.S.A.—Advertisement.

Black Transfer Company
Local Distributor
Charlotte, N.C.