THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

MANY IMPROVEMENTS

Alumni News

Floyd E. Fowlkes, ex-’18, is the head of the department of chemistry in the John Marshall High School, Richmond, Va.

Trustees Present at Meeting.

At the recent meeting of the board of trustees, about 25 members were present. These were Messrs. S. H. Hay,
A. R. McQueen, R. A. Lapsley, E. D. Brown, E. L. Faw, E. L. Flanagan, J. E. Hemphill, J. R.
Hay, R. F. Kirkpatrick, B. R. Lacy, R. M. Mann, W. J. McKay, H. L. Smith, E. L. Siler, Thornton
Whaling, H. C. Hammond, W. S. Patterson, S. A. Robinson, W. J. Roddey, J. P. Allison, C. E. Hodgin, C.
M. Chumbley, and W. L. Lingle.

(Continued from page 1)

The board mentioned plans to remodel Chambers and build a new dormitory as soon as possible. They aim to have
these ready for operation by the opening of next year. The board sent telegrams to two of its members who
were unable to be present because of illness—Mr. George E. Wilson, of Charlotte, attorney for the board, and Mr. George
W. Watts, of Durham.

(Note: It is especially desired by this department that all news regarding alumni be sent in. The alumni are interested
in what their fellow alumni are doing. This is your paper and we wish to make this page especially interesting
to you.)

S. M. Davis, ‘18, has just completed his course in accounting in Eastman Business College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. “Bing” will
assist his father in business at Mount Olive, N. C.

PROMINENT ALUMNUS SUMMONED BY DEATH.

Rev. James A. Wilson, ’79, died in a hospital at Columbia, S. C., on March twenty-third. He contracted anemia while
a minister in Greensboro, and although he had the constant attention of specialists for over eight years, he never recovered.
The funeral services were held at Society Hill, Thursday, the twenty-fifth. By his special request, his body was interred beside
that of his son.

He was born in York County, S. C., and graduated from Davidson in 1879, after which he went to Columbia
Theological Seminary. All his ministerial life was spent in South Carolina, except for a pastorate of two and a half
years at Greensboro. For some time he served as an evangelist in Pee Dee Presbytery. His last charge was at
Greensboro, after which failing health forced him to cease from active duty. Mr. Wilson is survived by his wife, who
was Miss Margaret Carrigan, and a son, Carrigan Wilson. The profusion of flowers that covered the grave and the many
friends who came from a distance to attend the service bore eloquent testimony to his popularity as a minister and
a man.

Rev. George L. Petrie, D.D., '59, pastor of the Charlottesville church and of many University students, has completed 42 years
of service. On his 80th birthday, Feb. 25, the congregation celebrated the occasion with exercises simple and informal, and in
the finest taste. The outstanding feature of the service was an address by Dr. Petrie, reviewing not only the eight
decades of his life, but his sixty years in the service in that field. He was referred to as “the
alert, upstanding, debonair and consecrated man of God.”

T. C. Stone, ’19, ex-business manager of the “Livest Wire,” is still doing fine business for his country and self.
He is at present located in Winston-Salem, being associated with the Brown’s Tobacco Co. Nice to see you “Pebble.”

Mr. W. P. Parker, student missionary to Korea, is spending several days on the “hill.” Mr. Parker is one of
Davidson’s noted alumni; while in college he led the class of '11, making an average of 99 for the four
years' work here.Parker is doing a splendid work as professor of Mathematics in Korea. Mrs. Parker is with him here,
on their first furlough. W. L. Law, '16, was on the “hill” last Friday for a short time. Mr. Law
is connected with the City National Bank of New York City. He addressed Dr. McConnell’s history class Friday, on the
wonderful banking system the City National is carrying on.

The Missionary Survey for April carries a photograph of Rev. E. S. Currie, '12, and his attractive wife, who was
Miss Gay Wilson of Richmond, who sailed on March 1, from Vancouver, for China.

W. H. Melburn, '11, and C. S. Mattison, '11, spent some time on the Hill last Wednesday. Mr. Melburn is
district manager for the Addressograph Co., with headquarters in Atlanta. Mr. Mattison is in the insurance business in Charlotte.

West McDonald, ex-'20, is at West Point this year.

Dr. Edward Mack, Professor of Hebrew in Union Theological Seminary, has for the past several weeks been confined to his
bed from a severe illness developing into mastoiditis. An operation was necessary this past week, and we are glad to
hear that he now seems on the road to recovery. He will still be confined to his bed for some
time and will not be able to resume his work in the Seminary again this spring. In his stead, Rev.
H. S. Turner, '13, and Hoge Fellow at the Seminary, 1917-18, will instruct in Hebrew for the remainder of the
year.

E. L. Wooten, ex-'14, is spending some time at White Springs, Fla.

Rev. O. M. Anderson, '08, has been called to the pastorate of New Monmouth Church near Lexington, Va., and the
Presbytery has appointed Rev. A. M. Fraser, D.D., '76, Rev. J. K. Parker, '08, and Rev. C. W. Reed, '08,
to conduct his installation on the first Sunday in May.

Rev. W. H. Mills, D.D., '92, will give at Columbia Theological Seminary, this spring a course designed to prepare the
students for work in the mill districts of the South. Dr. Mills is an expert in this field as well
as in rural sociology, having spent four years as a mill welfare worker.

Rev. H. R. Boswell, '12, has removed from Cradock, Va., to Ila, Ga.

Rev. H. D. Corbett, '13, formerly of Abbeville, S. C., has accepted work at St. Matthews, S. C.

Rev. W. W. Morton, '09, has returned from his Chaplaincy in France and is now assistant pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C.

Mr. S. A. Robinson, '09, president of the Gaston County Alumni Association, was on the Hill last Sunday night.

Jack Black, '18, was on the Hill last Sunday. He is now located at Greenville, S. C.

Dr. J. Steve Simmons, '11, Major in the Medical Corps of the Regular Army, is still in the service, located
at the Letterman General Hospital, Presidio, San Francisco, Cal.

O. C. Williamson, '18, is president of the Middle Class at Union Seminary. Mr. Williamson writes that in the first
baseball game of the season on March 26, six of the men on the team were A.B.’s of Davidson.

C. C. Morgan, '13, is president of C. C. Morgan Co., Inc., of Uniontown, Ala. A large outfitting store.

R. F. Brownlee, '14, is dealing in cotton and fertilizer at Anderson, S. C.

Howard A. Dishongh, '18, has been taking his first year’s medical work at Columbia University. “Dish” distinguished himself in the
fall by being one of five men in his class to average above 95.

John J. Bernhardt, '12, who has held a position with the Carolina Supply Company for several years, has accepted a
position as purchasing agent for the Cannon Manufacturing Company, at Kannapolis.

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men's trade. Mail orders given special attention.
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

We print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them—but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.
Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643

When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial.
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office
