THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1928.

Red and Black Yells Heard in Des Moines Alumni Present — Banquet Held — Davidson Spirit Shown

Davidson men seem to cover the world like the sunshine covers Dixie. The six student delegates to the Des Moines
Conference had hardly boarded the train before they began to meet men who were proud to claim Davidson as their
Alma Mater. Indeed, before the journey was completed, these men had gotten together and planned a Davidson reunion luncheon to
be staged in the convention city. The day set was Saturday, January 4, and the place selected as most appropriate
was the lunchroom of the Central Presbyterian Church. Here at the appointed time, 17 men representing nine colleges and universities
turned aside from the busy sessions of the convention to own allegiance to old Davidson. Some of the reunionists were
unable to attend on account of other pressing engagements; they, however, sent regrets and best wishes to all present. Mr.
John McEachern, of Korea, presided over the meeting and Schenck and Chalmers led the yells from Hacka-rack-a to D. C.
Ra! Ra! After eating as only good Presbyterians can, the men assembled in an adjacent Sunday School room, where for
two hours they talked as only Davidson men can talk. The undergraduates present realized as never before that Davidson’s alumni
never forget her and are ever interested in her welfare. The unanimous sentiment of the graduate students was that they
could never have the same feeling for their adopted colleges as they have for Davidson.

The following is a list of Davidson men who were attending the Des Moines Convention:
John McEachern, '07, Kunson, Korea.
J. M. Williams, ’12.
J. W. Brown, ’14, Princeton University, N. J.
John Belk, ‘15, Columbia Seminary, S.C.
Frank W. Price, ’16, Hartford Seminary, Conn.
D. V. Hudson, '17, John’s Hopkins Medical School, Maryland.
P. B. Price, ’17, John’s Hopkins Medical School, Maryland.
G. C. Bellingrath, '18, Union Seminary, Va.
L. K. Boggs, ex-’19, Clemson College, S.C.
J. E. Cousar, ’14, Union Seminary, Va.
L. C. Brand, ex-’19, University of Virginia, Va.
W. C. Cumming, ’18, Union Seminary, Va.
L. M. Thomas, ’19, Emory University, Ga.

THEY WIN IN A WALK

We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new
athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box—single or double-breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or
checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

345 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Electrically-heated glue-pots are used in pattern shops wound automatically by one-half horsepower Electricity—power of driving energy is this modern form
of power. Magnetic sorting machine, operated by a two horsepower motor, separates brass from iron.

The marvels of electricity have revolutionized our manufacturing industries. With belts and pulleys replaced by electric motors operating automatic—almost human—machines,
many a slow and tedious process has been eliminated. The factory worker's task of yesterday is made pleasant by his
command of this magic power. The Crane Company's plant at Chicago—electrical throughout—is a model of industrial efficiency. From a distant
power plant, machinery which handles the coal for heating, cuts the steel, sifts the sand, and sorts the material—in fact,
does everything from scrubbing the floor to winding the clock. Such an institution is marvelous—superhuman—made thus by the man-multiplying force
of electricity. The General Electric Company has been instrumental in effecting this evolution. First, by developing successful electric generating and
transmission apparatus to furnish economically made accessible to all. General Electric Company has mastered the art of applying the use
of electrical energy to a multitude of needs. General Office Schenectady, N.Y.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

MILLION $ ADDITION.

When you read this column
Don't begin to curse,
Just consider how it might have been
A darn sight worse:

HOW LITTLE A MILLION IS.

Sirius, the closest of the visible stars at Davidson, is 47 million miles from the earth.

During the days of reveille, retreat, numerous inspections, and more numerous stickings, Poteat used to sum up his chances of
ever possessing a million in the following way:
“One day, one dollar; million days, million dollars.” Probably he now realizes that there are other means.

Straight Talk.
Old Darkey (to shiftless son)—I hearn tell you is married. Is you?
Son (ingratiatingly)—I ain't sayin’ I ain't.
Old Darkey—I ain't.ask you is you of accumulating the above mention—ain't; I ask you ain't you is.—American ed sum. Legion
Weekly.

Verses inscribed on the fly-leaf of a hotel registry: (If there is no such thing, it must have been in
the post-script of the lobby):

He stretched forth his hand parting,
As he handed me my grip.
“Just keep the bag, my man,” I said,
“I’d rather save the tip.”

Men make millions,
Millions make men
(When invested in colleges and schools).

“What’s wrong with your hair?” was asked of Pap Askew as the million-dollar issue was being planned.
“Oh, it just come unparted,” was (as the story books and English geniuses say) the response.

“Oh tell me not of my charms,” she said,
“Save them for another day.”
Thus she spoke as his cause plead.
“Tell of the cash you’ve laid away,”
And loved him more when she heard him say,
“I’ve put that into the million-dollar fund.”

Sample of wit as pulled in the band:
“Good drum.”
“Yes, but the drumstick beats it.”
“Oh, I thought it was Red Smith that did the beating.”

Three reasons the last meeting of the Phi Society was worth attending:
“* * * and someone is going to get either hurt, wounded or shot.” —Bob McLeod.
“My opponents or friends.” —Query.
“Everyone, or at least all the Freshmen.” —Member of Fresh class.

During the war the cry was for Money, Men and Munitions. Now what is desired is Money for Munitions for
Men.

“The high cost of living is only a joke.”—Popular song. Probably facing a firing squad or being the center of
attraction at a hanging would appeal to the author’s sense of humor also.

While we are raising the million dollars, why can’t the band raise million-airs?

A SHORT STORY IN NO ACTS. (ALL TALK):
He and she were on the limited, which was making about fifty-nine, or to be exact sixty miles an hour.
He was proposing.
“If you don’t have me I’ll jump off this train,” he said, or rather we should say quoth, since this
is to be a high-class tale.
She declined the honor in the most polite and gracious terms, “Nothing doing” being the exact words which she employed.
However, he did not show any intentions of carrying into execution his threatened “revenge,” and she inquired:
“Waiting for me to reconsider before you jump?”
“Not at all, only waiting for the train to stop.”
She had nothing further to say.

Fourteen Davidson alumni attended the Student Volunteer Convention in Des Moines.

PLEDGED
Senior—“Pledge.”
Fresh—“I certify upon honor that I have neither received assistance from any source nor given aid to any pupil in
answering the foregoing questions.”

“Responsibility and success make an intoxicating drink.”—Kipling. Another case for revenue officers.

Oh! he was a marvel at dressing,
But was taken down a peg.
When glancing down at his leggings
He saw them both on one leg.

Only uncensored remarks of upperclassman who pulled a 69, upon receiving his report:

Days that never came:
Der Tag.
7th of Dec. (as scheduled).

The faith was kept:
The Fifth was bought.
When will we get this million sought?

Why can’t Hammet and Thompson take their grudge on the student body out in some other way rather than by
wearing Derby hats?

There are a lot of other things that might be said but this issue means business, not foolishness. It is
not for the jester to seize the prerogative (or Davidsonian space) of the courtier, so we must close, although reluctantly
yours.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, bankers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, clergymen, by successful
men and women the world over.

ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN?
The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer.
400,000 Vocabulary Terms.
2700 Pages.
6000 Illustrations, Colored Plates, 30,000 Geographical Subjects.
12,000 Biographical Entries.
Regular and India-Paper Editions.
Write for Specimen Pages, Illustrations, etc.
Free, a set of Pocket Maps if you name this paper.
