THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 29, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER

We are receiving every day shipments of clothing from Campus Togs, Fashion Park, Hirsh Wicken, and Kincaid & Kimball. There
are none better or we would have them.

J. M. Dunlap, Editor.

Mr. Plato and Mr. Staff Query seem to differ somewhat over the definition of concepts.

“Great guns! Someone must be throwing a bed down the steps.”
“Gosh no! That’s the band tuning up.”

Come look them over. No meetosis, no psychosis.

Where two feet make three feet—see Alex Mitchell’s pedal extremities.

When she says it is “heavenly” does she mean “un-earthly?”

345 Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

As I live! She winked at me. And I uttered a startled cry. But I found out to my dismay
’Twas but a cinder in her eye.

One of the two R. R. coaches that Noah took in the Ark is now running regularly on the Jaybirdville
Line.

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE
J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
221 W. Trade St.
Phone 3486

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.
See me for your feeds

WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
WHITE'S MARKET
Phone 25-W.
Cornelius, N.C.

BROWN’S
The Sensible Place to Eat
17 South Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

She—“I thought I'd pop.”
He—“So glad you didn’t.”

Lowrance says “None of us are as good looking as we think we are.”

Fish in the sea,
Rocks on the mountains,
Look how the profs
Make a fool out of me.

She—“What makes those freshman caps stick so tight?”
Soph—“Nature abhors a vacuum.”

It’s very well to debate giving laborers a representative on the board of trustees of industrial organizations, but why not
a student representative at the faculty meeting?

The following note was handed to some Davidson men while on a trip:
“Do any of you know these boys? If so, please give them my best regards. I am compused, so cannot
say a thing. (David Lowrance, Carl Cathey, John Caldwell, Fred Smith.)”
(Signed) Cornelia.

She called us “dear” and said we were “cute.” We uns raised plum to pup heaven. She pretty soon spied
a “dear young pig” and a “cute little nigger.” Great was the fall from pup heaven.

First Fresh—“What didja have t’eat?”
Second Fresh—“Shavings, doughballs, bull, ointment and zip.”

Davidson was well represented at the “Idol Dancer,” which appeared in Charlotte last week.

How to Pass Without Studying:
1. Call the prof by his nickname—there’s nothing like being chummy.
2. Volunteer information whenever possible—great will be the appreciation thereof.
3. In case you don’t know what’s asked of you, answer an imaginary question—it’s oh, so easy to hush 'em.
4. Wear the appearance of having boned all night—a good drunk accomplishes this.
5. Always assume a confident air—the prof won’t take a chance on getting shot.
6. Try to divert his attention by carrying on a conversation extraneous to the lesson—as the Overall Club, for instance.
7. Be absorbed in looking out the window—nothing like acting like you know it all.

Pull.
When a man who says “have saw,”
And who writes that “I onct seen,”
Gets to be the high and mighty
On a college magazine.
That’s pull.

When a guy who don’t know “A”
From the old proverbial “Izzard,”
Makes the mark on all his classes,
Same as if he were a wizard,
That’s pull.

When a man who can’t tell “do”
From its sister note called “re,”
Gets to blow the mighty fog-horn
In the orchestra—I’ll say
That’s pull.

Now the way to get that pull, Bo,
Is what worries Uncle Ed.
But a boot-black sure should have it,
Judging from what I’ve heard said.

At the R. O. T. C. Field Day.
First Fresh (after C Company had won fourth consecutive event)—“I believe there is something fishy about C.”
Second Fresh—“Sure, sea’s full of fish.”

Blessing as asked at boarding house: “Look out, Lord, we're going to eat.”

“What About That Class Reunion?”

R. O. T. C. TO BE INSPECTED SOON
Captain Mueller Makes Important Notice.

1. An officer representing the War Plans Division of the General Staff will inspect the R. O. T. C. unit
of Davidson College on May 5, 1920.
2. The purpose of this inspection is to judge and rate our efficiency for the purpose of...Determining our final classification
in comparison with other colleges within our class.

3. The inspector will take special notice of the following:
(1) Military bearing.
(2) Neatness of clothing—to be free from stains, and no buttons missing.
(3) Wearing of collar ornaments.
(4) Cleanliness of shoes, oiled or shined.
(5) Wearing black ties.
(6) Hats with four indentations.
(7) Hat cords sewed on.
(8) Adjustment of belts and packs.
(9) Cleanliness of rifles.
(10) Having your dummy cartridges in belt.
(11) Bayonets clean.
(12) Having five tent pins, pole, guy ropes, and rope loops for pins.
(13) Attention to military courtesy and proper wearing of uniform when off duty.
(14) Wearing of chevrons by non-commissioned officers.
(15) Having your whistles, compasses, flag-kits with you at full pack inspection.
(16) Percentage of absentees.

4. At drills, your smartness and manner of giving commands will be noted. Nothing to fear from the inspector in
the way of personal criticisms or unreasonable requirements. His duty is to tell us what he wants; to see and
to observe and note the result for the information of the War Department.

5. Students' clothing which is torn, stained, or badly worn should call at the armory and get such replacements as
we are able to furnish. Oil for shoes, buttons, needle and thread are all available at the armory.

6. Every student should put forth his best effort to anticipate all the foregoing needs for the Honor of Davidson
College. A rating as a Distinguished College is a very great honor, and if you can achieve this at the
end of your first year’s training, you will indeed have performed nobly a patriotic duty meriting the esteem of all
good citizens. Your class, the student body, the faculty, your family, and your government will be proud of you and
your accomplishment and will honor you for it.

A. H. Mueller, Captain, Cavalry.

Bear in mind that you have nothing to fear from the inspector in the way of personal criticisms or unreasonable
requirements. His duty is to tell us what he wants; to see and to observe and note the result for
the information of the War Department.

The Christian Endeavor Efficiency Chart, recently adopted by the Davidson Society, now shows a total of 141 points. This chart
has a large thermometer up its center, on which is shown the “temperature of the Society” by placing red tape
along the thermometer scale. In this novel way, the gain each month is impressed upon the members. On next Friday,
there is planned a picnic, which is expected to be one of the most enjoyable features of the Society year.
At the meeting last Sunday, the C. E. adopted a constitution and a financial budget system, neither of which had
existed before.

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained by Mrs. Hamilton at her home on Friday afternoon. Mrs. J. M. Douglass was
elected president. The club will study grand operas and the lives of musicians next year.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s trade. Mail orders given special attention.
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary
and at your service. He wants your business.

THE KEENEST PALATE CANNOT DETECT “THE DIFFERENCE”
MINNEHAHA PALE and SPECIAL (arr)
It is NOT a “near beer” that ferments AFTER drinking, but a thoroughly fermented LAGERED BREW aged in the vats
four months; made from barley and hops ONLY, just like the brews of forty years ago; but afterward by our
new Patent Vacuum Process (First operated Nov. 5, 1919, by us. Instead of COOKING by BOILING), the high wines ONLY
are removed, and not one atom of brewing flavor, snap or aroma taken out: hence it is delightfully EXHILARATING. SUPPLY
YOURSELF WITH MINNEHAHA WITHOUT DELAY.

GOLDEN GRAIN JUICE COMPANY
Minneapolis, U. S. A.
We ship to any part of the U. S.

Black Transfer Company
Local Distributor
Charlotte, N. C.
