THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920.

Before You Buy a Piano or Phonograph Get our prices.

BETTER DAVIDSON PLANNED WILDCATS OPEN SEASON
(Continued from page 1)
second, cordial relations between student body and student council—trust them as a part of yourself. The honor system is more
than a form written on a scrap of paper. It is a sentiment enacted by the student body that every
man is expected to be a gentleman.” Professor Wood hinted at friction.

(Continued from page 2)
LITERARY NEWS
error and went to third while McArn was safe on an infielder’s choice. Cassell singled to left and Wrenn scored.
Crawford struck out, Currie flew to first and Ratchford struck out.

Seventh Inning
Oak Ridge: McNeil grounded out. Mooney whiffed at three and Marchant was out short to first.
Davidson: Cassell, F., walked, stole second and after Shepherd and Richards were out, scored on Wrenn’s single to right. Wrenn
was out trying to stretch it into a double.

Eighth Inning
Oak Ridge: Morris was hit, went to second on a passed ball and stole third. McGirt, Sizemore and Beckton were
all easy outs.
Davidson: McArn struck out. Cassell and Crawford were hit, and Currie filled the bases with a single to right. Ratchford
singled and Cassell and Crawford scored. Cassell, F., flew out but Shepherd doubled to center, scoring Currie and Ratchford. Shepherd
scored on Richards' double. Wrenn retired the side by grounding out.

Ninth Inning
Oak Ridge: Gardner flew out and Cox was out to first. McNeil singled to left but Mooney ended the game
by going out short to first.

Score by innings: R.H.E
Oak Ridge --301 100 000— 5 7
Davidson --.010 041 15*—12 9 2

SECOND GAME
First Inning
Oak Ridge: McNeil walked, went to second on Mooney’s sacrifice, to third on Marchant’s sacrifice and scored on a passed
ball. Morris was safe on an error but was caught off first.
Davidson: Ratchford struck out. Cassell, F., singled to left, went to second when Shepherd was safe on an error and
they both scored when Richards tripled to center. Richards scored when Johnson was safe on an error. McArn flew to
left, but Cassell, E., doubled. Crawford walked, filling the sacks. Miley was hit by a pitched ball, and Johnson was
forced in. Ratchford ended the inning by flying out.

Second Inning
Oak Ridge: Vann was safe on an error, stole second and went to third on McGirt’s sacrifice, from where he
scored on Sizemore’s single to center. Beckton was out to third and Gardner struck out.
Davidson: Cassell, F., was out to first. Shepherd flew to short and Richards flew to left.

Third Inning
Oak Ridge: McNeil was out on strikes. Mooney flew to left. Marchant grounded out to first.
Davidson: Johnson was safe on an error. Went to second on McArn’s sacrifice. Cassell and Crawford flew out.

Fourth Inning
Oak Ridge: Morris flew to second. Richardson singled but McGirt and Sizemore lifted easy ones to the infield.
Davidson: Miley was out third to first. Ratchford flew to second and Cassell flew to center.

Fifth Inning
Oak Ridge: Beckton was out pitcher to first. Gardner passed over the same route. McNeil struck out.
Davidson: Shepherd flew to center. Richards and Johnson grounded out to first.

Sixth Inning
Oak Ridge: Mooney and Marchant grounded out to first. Morris flew to left.
Davidson: McArn flew to center. Cassell struck out and Crawford was out second to first.

Seventh Inning
Oak Ridge: Richardson was out to center and McGirt grounded out to first. Sizemore drew a pass and stole second.
Beckton was out short to first.
Davidson: Miley walked, was sacrificed to third by Ratchford and Cassell. Shepherd flew out to left.

Eighth Inning
Oak Ridge: Gardner singled to center and went to second on McNeil’s sacrifice. Mooney struck out and Marchant was out
to first.
Davidson: Richards singled to center. Johnson laid down a neat bunt.

SECTIONS OF EU SOCIETY HOLD JOINT MEETING
Debate Between Phi Society and Eu Society Gets Unanimous Decision.
The Eu Society held its second joint meeting last Saturday night. The first number on the program was the initiation
of George McCutchen into the mysteries and miseries of the society. He stood the ordeal unusually well, and was said
by his physician to be “doing nicely this morning.”

The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That American Industry Should Have the Closed Shop.” In consideration of the shortness of
time, the house voted that there should be only two speakers on each side. “Ox” Harold was the first speaker
of the affirmative. At the beginning of his speech he announced that he would prove four points, but so skillfully
did he camouflage these points with bull, that at the close neither he nor the audience knew what the points
were. Askew, the last member of the affirmative, gave the best debate of the evening.

R. Bitzer, the leader of the negative, in the course of his speech announced that there were a million men
out of jobs. The society wondered why one of the million did not take Mr. Bitzer’s job on the debate.
R. R. Craig ably supported the negative, but was considerably off the subject. To everybody’s surprise the decision was given
to the negative. (Rumor has it that the affirmative was too “broke” to bribe the judges).

R. T. L., etc., Liston made a criticism that was worthy of Demosthenes or some other soap-box orator. The janitor’s
salary was raised to thirty dollars per term. This raise was necessary because the janitors of the two societies were
threatening to form a union. Mr. Parker, an old member...of the Eu, gave a few words of greeting to the
society, after which the whole assembly adjourned to the picture show.

Phi Society

Brevity was the watchword of the Phi Society at its regular meeting Saturday night. There was a meeting, but the
meeting together was about all that was accomplished. Through some misunderstanding on the part of the program committee and the
speakers, no one seemed to know who was to speak or what he was to speak about. It later developed
that the president wasn’t in a receptive mood for anything less than “The Miracle Man.” Accordingly, Mr. Nichols (in the
absence of Mr. Spence) seconded a motion for adjournment and society was continued at the picture show.

EU. SOCIETY PROGRAM.

There will be a joint meeting of the two societies next Saturday night to elect officers for the coming term.
All members are urged to be present. There will be no regular program, but all Seniors desiring to obtain credits
will have an opportunity to deliver orations. No program has been announced in the Phi Society.

Bunt and Gardner, trying to catch Richards going to second, tossed the ball to centerfield and Richards scored, Johnson going
to third on the play. McArn flew to left and Johnson, attempting to score on the play, left the third
hassock too early and was called out. Cassell ended the inning by flying to center.

Oak Ridge: Morris went out to first. Richardson singled to center, went to third when McGirt was safe on an
error. McGirt stole second. Sizemore flew out to center but Rouse doubled, scoring Richardson and McGirt. Gardner flew out to
right.

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Oak Ridge 116-000 002— 4 4 3
Davidson 400 000 01*— 5 4 2

...tion between the student body and student council here, and appealed to the students to co-operate with their officers, and
uphold the honor system. At this point, Dr. Harding proposed that The Davidsonian, which arrived just prior to Professor Wood’s
address, be given a cheer. This proposal was taken up with mighty enthusiasm.

The next number on the program was one of the most delightful of the evening. It consisted of a selection
of songs rendered by Davidson’s Quartet—Messrs. H. B. Brown, McArn, Curry, and Shields. So insistent were the demands for “more”
that after singing “Somebody” and a splendid arrangement of “Old Black Joe,” they gave “I Love You Just the Same,
Sweet” and this being encored, sang “I’m Goin’ Home.”

Because of his splendid record while in Davidson and since leaving his alma mater, the next speaker claimed a large
share of interest. Prof. C. L. Wilcox, headmaster of McCallie School, spoke on “The Institution of Honor System and Student
Government in Davidson.” His address was able and full of excellent points. He told us of incidents connected with the
inauguration of the honor system and self-government here, and left with us some exceptionally good advice for strengthening these college
institutions.

“Exercise caution in electing the president of the student body. I don’t believe a man can come out of this
office as popular as he was when he entered, if he does his full duty. And it is a man
who is not afraid, in spite of this, that you want to elect,” said Mr. Wilcox.

In conclusion, Mr. Wilcox suggested mutual, public pledging of newly elected officers and the student body, the creating of a
strong sentiment against certain bad practices of the students, introducing an honor store, advertising Davidson in prep schools by the
Glee Club, and other college organizations, and frequent meetings to instruct Freshmen in Davidson's traditions and principles.

The final speaker of the evening was Rev. W. S. (“Squire”) Golden. His address on “The Value of an Honor
System” was masterly and created a deep impression on his hearers. Mr. Golden paid a high tribute to Davidson and
the work she has done for the world through her honor system.

“The responsibility of upholding the principles of the honor system rests upon men who are here. You can bestow upon
old Davidson the highest possible gift—a perfect honor system.”

Photographer McIlwaine made a flashlight picture of the crowd of banqueters and the brilliant festivities were brought to an end.
Too much cannot be said of the success of the Greater Davidson Club’s banquet, nor too much praise be given
those who made this success possible. Hereafter there will be a similar function each year; but for “pep,” good eats,
good speeches, good spirits, and a hilarious good time from start to finish, the banquets to come will have a
hard time excelling the one held last Thursday night. A better way for beginning a Better Davidson Campaign could not
have been hit upon.

BERWICK — 24 in.
ARROW
Form-Fit COLLARS curve cut to fit shoulders perfectly.
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC Makers

MAGNESS & SAIN
301 North Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years
afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements,
write D. S. BROWN.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

...to teeth, appetite, digestion! The flavor lasts—and the electrically-sealed package brings WRIGLEY’S to you with all its goodness perfectly preserved.

Sealed Tight—
WRIGLEY’S
DOUBLEMINT
GUM
