4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '19
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

E. CASSELL........-........... Editor-in-Chief
J. R. RICHARDS............... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND................. Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE................... Assignment Editor
M. R. DUNLAP................. Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS.............. Alumni Editor
J. G. McCASKILL.............. Exchange Editor
R. K. BOULWARE, JR.......... Forum Editor
M. D. DUNLAP................. Campus Editor
B. W. ROBERTS............... Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL.................... Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR............. Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE............. Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, Z.
LONG, C. G.
OGDEN, D. H.
MAHOOD, D. L.
ORMAND, A. C.
COOPER, W. J.
MAUZE, G. W.
LAND, A. C.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN................. Business Manager
E. A. NASH................... Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY.................. Assistant Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG................... Circulation Manager
L. L. ......................... Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

A hearty welcome to both old and new men. May this year have many blessings in store for you. Isn’t it great to be back on the Hill with all the boys? There are no friends like Davidson friends.

One glance at the 1920-21 Recitation Schedule will reveal the fact that modern education becomes more complex each year. With movies the first week of school it would seem that the Moving Picture Department of the Y. M. C. A. is moving along splendidly.

The student body extends its cordial greetings to the new members of the Faculty: Dr. Hood, Professor Erwin, Professor Byers, and Captain Hearn.

A few lights here and there on the campus would improve matters wonderfully.

A word of advice to the studious and non-studious: Don’t let your studies interfere with your enjoying the Chautauqua next week.

Never worry about that curious feeling you are experiencing these first few days, Freshmen. It will pass away soon. We have all experienced those selfsame sensations.

During these days when Chapel is entirely too crowded, why not exempt the Seniors from these religious exercises. While they would regret any such measures, yet they would bear the denial cheerfully inasmuch as others would be benefited thereby.

OUR DUTY.

The opening days of the eighty-second session of our school have just passed, but the passing of them has brought to this campus some five hundred youths from the best families in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Of this number three hundred return to an educational training ground that is not new to them; two hundred of them have embarked upon the first great transitional stage in their young lives. It is to this latter class that the eyes of our little college world are now turned, seeing in them great opportunities and also responsibilities that cannot be passed over lightly. They have come to Davidson with a goodly knowledge of what they will find. The clean fighting Red and Black teams, the strong Honor System, the democratic spirit of our campus and above all the fine, strong type of Christian men that seek this institution no doubt guided them largely in their choice of our college. And to whom are they looking to uphold these high principles and ideals? Is it to the faculty that they have directed their gaze? Not by any means, for it is to the upperclassmen that they have turned with the expectations of seeing these generations-old traditions put into effect. And shall we be false to their finest hopes? Surely it is far from the desire of a single old student that our younger brothers should be disappointed in the slightest measure in the old college that is so dear to every one of us. It is in this connection then that we would urge that each upperclassman keep ever before him the fact that upon him is resting the responsibility of piloting the footsteps of the Freshmen either for better or worse. Considering this, therefore, let every old man set for himself the high resolve that for this session at least he will think clean, talk clean and live clean that he may not be guilty of lowering the high standards of Davidson College.

Requests for information concerning the R. O. T. C. Advanced Course—entrance requirements, work, benefits, and the like. The purpose of this article is to state these things in a general way, and as briefly as possible. Further information is readily available at headquarters. Any one who has been in the military department here since the first of the Basic Course last spring, and is recommended by the P. M. S. and T. and thePresident of the College, is eligible. Those men who can show equivalent work at other colleges come in the same class. Just what credit can be given for past military experience will be gladly considered if your record of service seems to tally with that above, or if you aren't quite sure, and want to “re-up,” present your case with Captain Hearn, and he will treat you right on it. Of course, you have just to sign an agreement with Uncle Sam to stick it out during the remainder of your time in college, unless excused or dismissed by the proper authority. That means one year for Seniors and two for Juniors. Further, you agree to attend one summer camp, and that is the Advanced Course, for six weeks. This camp will regularly be attended between the Junior and Senior years, but may be left until after graduation. In the latter case, the college will hold up your diploma till after the camp. During the entire time you are in the Advanced Course you will receive, in addition to clothing, equipment, and training, pay at the rate of 53 cents a day throughout the year, and payable quarterly. During the time you are actually in camp you will not receive this pay, which is commutation of rations.

(Continued on page 10)

SENIORS, LOOK!

There have been quite a few re-

I'd like to know
Where mosquitoes go
When the wintry breezes blow.
What do they wear
For underwear
When they’re under where
I don't know.
Do the young humdingers
Sharpen up their stingers
In a warmer clime?
Where do mosquitoes go
I'd like to know
In the winter time?

(All poetic answers of any merit to this lyric from a current “Follies” song will be reprinted in this column).

An English laundry has employed a jazz orchestra to play during working hours, in the belief that it increases the efficiency of the employees. Judging from the appearance of our shirts and clothes on recent returns from our laundry, “raggin’ the old clothes” has been in practice here for some time. —Kansas City (Mo.) Star.

Now It Can Be Told.

In an Irish law case of a domestic riot involving much injury to person and property, a witness in the course of a vivid narrative swore as follows:
“He says to me, ‘Is that your father?’ And I says to him, ‘It is me father,’ and he says, ‘It is well you told me, for I thought it was an ould gorilla,’ and then the fight began, me Lord.”—Nineteenth Century Review.

Respect for Riches.

It was so dark ahead of me that I could barely see him. Presently he slipped and fell on his hip.
“If it was so dark as you say, how do you know he fell on his hip?”
“I heard the tinkle of broken glass.”—Judge.

Captain Hearn.

So, if to enter the Advanced Course, you have to sign an agreement with Uncle Sam to stick it out during the remainder of your time in college, unless excused or dismissed by the proper authority. That means one year for Seniors and two for Juniors. Further, you agree to attend one summer camp, and that is the Advanced Course, for six weeks. This camp will regularly be attended between the Junior and Senior years, but may be left until after graduation. In the latter case, the college will hold up your diploma till after the camp. During the entire time you are in the Advanced Course you will receive, in addition to clothing, equipment, and training, pay at the rate of 53 cents a day throughout the year, and payable quarterly. During the time you are actually in camp you will not receive this pay, which is commutation of rations.

Kernel Cootie—Here comes the major from Kentucky. Wonder how he feels after the celebration last night.
Majah—Good mawning, Kunnel, how ah you all?
Kernel (musing)—You all? Gosh? He’s still seein’ double.
—Chicago (Ill.) Tribune.

French maids are very capable,” said Lady Duff-Gordon at a tea recently in Los Angeles. “Sometimes they are almost too capable. I heard the other day of a young woman whose French maid was all that the heart could desire. As she was putting a lovely Marcel wave in her mistress’ hair one afternoon the mistress said:
“I visited a fortune teller this morning, Yvonne, and asked her about my husband.”
The maid smiled. “If madame had asked me,” she said, “I could have told madame more than the fortune teller could.”

The Lost Fairy.

“I was in a show one time.”
“What part did you play?”
“I played the part of a fairy.”
“What! You a fairy! What did you have to do?”
“Carry eighteen people across the river.”—Frank De Voe.

AMERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satisfaction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, more and more men are smoking WDC Pipes. This is not chance. It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion Pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES