The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the
Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL.......................... Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS.................... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND........ Assistant Managing Editor
P. PRICE.......................... Assignment Editor
I. R. DOUBLES.................... Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS................. Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL.................. Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR............. Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP..................... Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS................... Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL.......................... Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR................ Literary Editor
R. McILWAINE.................... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
T. L. LISTON
R. BITZER
A. M. MITCHELL
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
B. B. GILMER
J. W. PHILLIPS
W. W. SUMMERS
E. H. TUFTS

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C.
D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, Z.
Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J.
F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS................ Active Business Manager
A. G. OLTMAN.................... Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG......................... Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL........................ Assistant Manager

THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

BOARDING.

Our mutual friend, “Marcus Porcius,” gave us some good dope last week “As to Eating” but offered no solution to
the situation. It is without doubt that the private boarding house system is the best policy. We are for it
and against the Commons, or mess hall. At present we pay a little more than at other places but we
have the satisfaction of good service and a small number of meals served under the private supervision of a competent
woman.

There are two suggestions that we want to place before you. First, to establish a storehouse owned and operated by
the college to buy the supplies for the boarding houses and sell them at cost. There is no reason in
each boarding house lady sending out in the afternoon and buying at retail six boxes of cornflakes, two lbs. of
bacon for breakfast. Why shouldn’t the college furnish this lady with a case of breakfast food, the potatoes by the
barrel instead of the peck, the grits by the bag instead of by the pound, the beans by bag, flour
by barrel, lard by tub. The college could furnish these staple goods in this way and the two or three
extra dollars that we are now lamenting about will be saved and the boarding-house lady will be better equipped and
receive the same compensation for her services because those extra shekels go to the retail merchant and not to the
boarding house.

Secondly, we wonder if there is not some way of encouraging a better position. It is a good one and
will work out to a good advantage and we know that we would enjoy more good vegetables and the first
tender meat.

E. Pluribus Unum.

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF APRIL FOOL.

We may well say with Edward Gibbon that “In the confusion of darkness an assailant may succeed.” So he did;
but who the “He” is has not as yet been made public. Yes, he succeeded in climbing the tank under
cover of darkness, on the night of March 31, and succeeded in disfiguring our water tank with many different colors
of paint. Just what the idea was no one knows. Did he mean it for an April Fool? It is
true that it looks very foolish, but it is not in keeping with the modern mind that dominates the campus
at Davidson and it is not a plausible April fool.

The best April fool pulled this year was the absence of Dr. Grey’s Cows in Chapel. Everyone expected it, and
felt a little disappointment in that they did not find the usual Old Gag pulled. But disappointment did not stare
the mischief seekers full in the face. Upon entering the Chapel a large poster could be seen back of the
stand covering the entire wall announcing that “Hoover had turned Republican.” A few minutes later in the middle of the
morning prayer the pleasant (?) sound of an alarm clock greeted us from a remote corner of the Chapel.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY.
The election of cheerleaders is won by the nominee who obtains the most yelling from the student body.—The Lariat.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
A certain professor of sociology asks his class this important question: Do men marry for beauty, health, or for wealth?
Forty-three percent preferred the woman of their choice be healthy, forty-two percent beautiful, and less than fifteen percent wealthy.—The Hoya.

You know Sampson the practical Joker. His last joke brought down the house.—Randolph-Macon Sun Dial.

EXAMINATIONS AS WE WOULD LIKE THEM.

CHEMISTRY
1. Do you consider this an important subject?
2. What is the formula for water? (Do not write it graphically).
3. What is your favorite element? Why?
4. Do you like chemistry? Why?

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL:
We wish the Sophomores a great time at their banquet Friday night. Judging from the number of meetings in Chapel
it must be bordering on a very kingly affair.

The constant clinking of horseshoes tells us most forcibly that spring is here with all its pleasures.

The notice “All football men report for spring practice this afternoon” sounds like we mean it.business for next fall. We
imagine that the Davidson Hoover Club now feels like a duck out of water since their candidate has cast his
lot with the Republican party. The student who fails to attend the N. C. State game in Charlotte Saturday should
be termed a “slacker.” Be there to see a battle royal.

Report has come to our ears that we regret very much to learn. It is a thing that is not
in keeping with the fair spirit of our campus, a thing that is not compatible with the noble traditions of
our college, and a thing that is far from being worthy of the true manhood of the South as represented
in our institution. That to which reference is made is the unfair methods that are being used in the student
body and other elections this spring. We cannot think other than it is just thoughtlessness on the part of the
students, for were they conscious of the derogatory effects of their actions on our school life they would desist immediately.

There are three points to be considered in this connection of “stuffing the ballot” as it is termed: First, to
vote for other than the best man, and then upon this to vote more than once, the student is not
playing fair with himself. It means just a little lowering of personal honor, and shows a small defect of character.
Second, the student is not playing fair with the candidate in whose behalf these methods are used. It is needless
to say that no real Davidson man wants to win an election by these means, and it would hurt him
to think that he has an honor that rightly belongs to another. And third, the student guilty of such action
shows quite plainly that he does not have the best interest of his school at heart when he would want
to see his man win out regardless of whether he was the right one for the place or not.

The students all know that just at present there is lying on the table an amendment to our Constitution which
will do away with these unlawful methods, and we would urge most earnestly that when the proper time comes that
it will be ratified overwhelmingly. It is to be regretted that things have come to this state, yet we are
confident that right will prevail and that the plans set forth in the amendment will be the means hereafter of
maintaining fairness in the elections.

Very shortly there will be held one of the most important of the student body elections. This will be for
the choice of the man upon whose shoulders will rest the responsibility of making the revised Student Government Constitution a
success or a failure. Now that we have taken the big step forward in our Self Government in theory you
might say, we cannot fall down on the practical applications of the principles embodied therein.

It is for this reason that we would advise the students that they think carefully and thoughtfully as to the
qualifications that are essential to the holder of the position. We want a man who is clean cut and fair
in all his dealings, who is conscientious and of vigorous ability, and above all a man who would rather carry
out the task entrusted to him than be popular. This is a high standard set for a man, but we
have them in our student body, and it will behoove all of us to find this man for our own
and our school’s welfare.

As brought out so forcibly at the Greater Davidson Club banquet, at an election of this nature it is necessary
that we lay aside all anti-fraternity and fraternity spirit in order that the best student may be chosen. Therefore, for
the sake of Old Davidson, let us resolve that our choice in the coming election shall be a man who
will at all times place first the execution of his trust, and who as our representative will reflect honor upon
our institution.

...better trucking section of our produce farmers so that we can have more fresh vegetables and also that someone start
raising some good brand of cattle and have them slaughtered instead of depriving our country’s saw mills of their beasts
of burden for the purpose. Who wouldn't like to have one nice tender piece of steak for breakfast instead of
the well-known tough Taurus?

We believe the storehouse campaign across, let’s celebrate, paint the score on the tank, start the bonfire; but these silly
things which are pulled on April the first each year make it seem that some enemy has entered the camp.
A man with the right spirit will refrain from such practice. As the Old College grows larger, let’s grow along
with it and cut the funny stuff on April the first.

L. S. V. P.

5. Do you think it should be a required subject? (Answer four).

ANALYTICS
1. Plot the point 2, 3, also 1, 3.
2. Plot the straight line 2x plus y minus 1 equals 36.
4. Do you prefer to use the letters A, B, C, or X, Y, Z, for the vertices of a
triangle? (Answer three).

(Continued on page 5)

DON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of
mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it’s a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke
is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and
mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them
in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS
