THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920

Athletic News

P. G. SUTTON ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

In the elections held in chapel Monday morning, P. G. Sutton was elected president of the Athletic Association. He comes to this high office with a brilliant record in the athletic circles of Davidson and is admirably equipped to fill this new office in a manner that will reflect glory upon himself and the association of which he is the president. It was Pig Iron Sutton who helped to make the class of ’20 all-class football champions way back in 1916, and in '17 he made the Varsity baseball team and the coveted “D". The scrub football team of 1918 was materially strengthened by his position on it, as was the Varsity baseball team in 1919. Of course, we can safely say that the new president of the Athletic Association will put everything he’s got into the baseball team of 1920 and come in for a big share of the success which it is bound to attain.

For the benefit of those who have not labored up the three flights of Chambers to President Sutton’s apartments, let us say that it will be well worth your while. You will see there the clock which ticks the knell of classes day by day, the bell-cord by which their deaths are proclaimed to the world, and the man who is responsible for your arising at 7:15 and a large part of your outgoings and in-comings each day you are at Davidson. At home, President Sutton is a delightful host and may favor you with a demonstration of sewing a button on a soft collar, as he did The Davidsonian’s reporter who called to interview him. In all things he lives up to his motto—“Conservative”—but this does not mean pepless. From ringing the bell to discharging the duties of president of the Athletic Association, Sutton is full of pep—an efficient, quiet, forcible pep, the pep of great leaders.

A. L. CURRIE IS CAPTAIN OF THE BASEBALL TEAM

Election Held in Chapel Monday Morning.

The captain of the baseball team for 1920 is Buck Currie. When we look at Currie’s record we see that his name appears among many kinds of college activities. In his Freshman year, he made the Varsity baseball team, and when a Sophomore he was a star in Varsity baseball, and we have no doubt that Buck Currie will make a successful captain. In announcing his policy regarding his administration of the 1920 baseball team, Captain Currie says: “I believe in moderately intensive training, and putting the men on their own responsibility to stay in condition; but there is no chance for any man in poor condition to make the team.” According to Captain Currie, the prospects for Davidson's baseball team this year are better than last year, except as regards a pitcher. Because The Davidsonian believes that Captain Currie is all right, it predicts for the baseball team and its new captain a brilliant record and added glories to old Davidson from the diamond.

Physical Examination Shows Davidson Men in Good Trim.

The physical examinations for the R. O. T. C. were resumed last week by Dr. J. W. McConnell. Those examined were for the most part Freshmen, although a few Seniors were put through the mill. The examinations began last fall but were postponed on account of the forced absence of Dr. McConnell. As yet only about 75 percent of the men have been examined. Those remaining will probably undergo inspection at the end of this week. On the whole, the physical condition of the men is very good, only eight percent being found unfit physically for the R. O. T. C.

Volunteer and Ministerial Bands Hear McClure on Convention

Joint Meeting Recipient of Much Information About Volunteer Work

Sunday afternoon the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands united to hear R. E. McClure present the great outstanding thoughts of the recent Volunteer Convention. Unfortunately, only a meager summary can be given here. John R. Mott sounded the keynote of consecrated service: “No pursuit is secular to which God calls young men.” God calls and uses consecrated men in many different walks of life. The army on foreign soil cannot exist without the support of the “folks at home.” This broad view of a life of service makes the selection of one’s life work much more serious than the erroneous view that man’s only great field of service is in the ministry. It throws a fellow back on prayer as the only means of determining that life work for which God created him and in which he can best be used. True prayer is only the prayer of one who is fully surrendered to God’s way of answering it. Such a call to service demands the full consecration of every man who aspires to the name of Christian to the task of attaining, insofar as in him lies, the “evangelization of the world in this generation.”

MR. GEORGE E. WILSON RETIRES FROM BANK PRESIDENCY.

Bank Progresses Remarkably Under His Management.

The Charlotte Observer in its issue of the fourteenth refers editorially to the retirement of Mr. George E. Wilson, 1867, from the presidency of the Merchants and Farmers Bank of Charlotte. The record of progress made by the bank under Mr. Wilson’s presidency is one of the remarkable incidents in Charlotte’s financial growth, surplus and profits having scored an increase from $89,707.68 to $363,370.36, the sum disbursed among stockholders, meantime having amounted to $368,500.00 in dividends. When Mr. Wilson assumed the presidency of the bank its stock was valued at $145 a share. It is now more than $280 a share.

Doug Fairbanks There With the Goods

“I’m not from Maryland, but I’d make a mighty good ‘watch-dog’.” “Oh! I feel I'm about to faint!” “Well, why don’t you?” In “The Man From Painted Post,” “Doug” Fairbanks, assisted by leap-year’s cupid, proved himself as gallant and successful in taming a rare specimen of the fair sex as in bronco busting and pulling that two-gun stunt. Such a variety of action cannot be beaten for simply passing away the time. But that is not all, for an intelligent audience, whose time is worth more than the killing, can be satisfied with nothing short of the best. But how to obtain the best? Why not try the plan so successfully used in getting the best for the library? If you have ever seen or heard of a good show, dig up its title, number of reels, name of film company; whenever you see a real good one be sure to jot down this information in your hand-book and when you have an opportunity, do your best to get it through the Y.

J. T. Mackey, Jr., ex-’22, is with the Blaney Mercantile Co., of Blaney, S. C.

W. C. Neel, '20, has accepted the position of Principal of the Davidson High School.

DISCOVERIES OF MISSIONARIES. HOME RULE FOR IRELAND.

Lloyd George, in the House of Commons, December 22, gave an outline of a plan for home rule for Ireland thatOne who goes into savage lands to carry the Gospel message to the heathen seems to meet the approval of fair-minded friends of Ireland and of Great Britain. Though this is undoubtedly his most important service to the human race, it is reasonable. Great Britain would go a long way in the direction of national suicide if she were to permit Ireland to establish an independent government. This fact was demonstrated by what took place in the attempts of Germany to use Irish rebels to fight Great Britain in the recent world war. Lloyd George’s plan provides for an imperial government but would grant the Irish people home rule with two parliaments. There is no reason why Ireland should not have two parliaments, just as different States in our own Federal Government have 48 different legislatures. The proposed plan would establish one parliament in the North and another in the South of Ireland; the two could establish whatsoever unity they desired. Each of the two parliaments would have taxation powers equivalent to those of the State legislatures of the United States. The income tax and the excess profits and supertaxes would be levied imperially. The Irish parliaments would control all local matters and all machinery for the maintenance of law and order except the higher judiciary and the army and navy. The custom and excise services would be retained by the imperial parliament, but when Ireland was united it would be open to the imperial parliament to consider whether united Ireland would have control of the customs. This plan differs from all other plans that have been proposed and we can see no good reason why anyone should object to it. Every good reason for home rule is just as potent for two parliaments as for one. Great Britain cannot and should not permit Ireland to set up an independent government, but it can and should give to the people of Ireland what the United States gives to each State in the Union—Banner.

It was the Jesuit missionaries, laboring among the aboriginal inhabitants of Peru, after its conquest by Spain, who first discovered the virtues of the bark of the Cinchona tree. They found the natives of that country using it for malaria fever, and after testing it themselves, exported some to Europe, where it soon became a well-known remedy. For a long time, it went by the name of Jesuit bark, the ground bark being administered as a powder, but when modern chemists found out how to extract the curative properties of the bark, it was given the name we know it by today—quinine. In their efforts to evangelize the heathen scattered through the vast areas of northwest South America, the Jesuits also discovered a tree that grew, more or less, in all those regions, the sap of which was splendid for stopping the flow of blood from a cut. This was also gathered by them and in time made known to the civilized world, and today in Europe still bears the name ‘Friars’ Balsam,’ and in Latin-America ‘Balsamo Catolico,’ or Catholic Balsam.

In more modern days it was a Protestant missionary, laboring among the natives of the Niger River delta, in West Africa, who discovered the valuable properties of the stones of the fruit of the oil palm. The natives were in the habit of throwing away most of the stones, a few being cracked and the kernels removed, after pounding and cooking off the oil-bearing fruit surrounding them, because they were sweet and good to chew. The inquisitive missionary examined these edible kernels and found them very oily, so much so, that he tried to persuade the traders to buy them and have the oil extracted. The traders, however, thought this merely a missionary's crazy idea, almost as foolish as trying to Christianize the natives, and would do nothing about it; but the undaunted missionary sent some of the kernels to Europe for testing. It was found that the kernels contained large quantities of oil that was valuable for a great many purposes, edible and otherwise, and a trade in them began at once. This has grown so fast and to such a size, that today, it is second only in importance, and in some places more important, than that of the fruit itself. It also was not long before another use was discovered. It was found that the nutcake from which the oil had been pressed made a splendid cattle food. Everyone knows that oil is fattening and palatable, and evidence of the wholesome effect of the kernels on the cattle was shown by the sheep of the natives which greedily ate all they could find of this waste. The use of the nut cakes greatly increased the value of oil palms.—Ex.

Some men have a long distance to cover as they go on unto perfection. The compensation offered them is the possibility of doing good while they are on the way.

MEDITATIONS FOR THE NEW YEAR

May this day and all the days of the New Year bring to you and all those who are dear to you the sunshine of happiness.—Richard Brooks.

To work to help and to be helped, to learn sympathy through suffering, to learn faith by perplexity, to reach truth through wonder—behold! this is what it is to prosper, this is what it is to live—Phillips Brooks.

Put out of your thought the past whatever it may be; let go even the future with its golden dream and its high ideal; and concentrate your soul in this burning, present moment. For the man who is true to the present is true to his best; and the soul that wins the ground immediately before it, makes life a triumph—Ozora Stearns Davis.

Resolved, to live with all my might while I do live; resolved never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it in the most profitable way I possibly can; resolved, never to do anything which I should despise or think meanly of in another; resolved, never to do anything out of revenge; resolved, never to do anything which I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life.—Jonathan Edwards.

Knox and Barnette Entire New Line of General Merchandise Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N.C. Does Commercial Banking, & Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent Your business is solicited John L. Douglas, Pres., W.H. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres, J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

PLAY TENNIS Spalding Tennis Equipment Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis shoes. Send for catalog, A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co. Expert Dyers and Cleaners Charlotte, N.C. Agency 18 Watts