‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920.

DAVIDSON’S SMASHING ATTACK
(Continued from page 1)

The third quarter started out with what looked like a Baptist rally, when Fulton recovered a fumble and ran 55 yards for their only touchdown. The Wake Forest men seemed to take on new life after this and for several minutes put up what might be called first-class football, but they soon weakened under the mighty offensive and defensive work of Davidson, and the question from then on was how much the score would be. After the lone touchdown of Wake Forest, Davidson received and worked it up the field only to be held for downs. McFadden punted and Rabenhorst was downed in his tracks. The aerial offensive of the Gold and Black ended disastrously for them when Shepard intercepted an attempted forward pass and raced over the goal line for the third touchdown of the game, it being also his third one.

The fourth quarter was also Davidson’s quarter and Moore added to the score another touchdown when he slid across the goal line with three Wake Forest men hanging on to him. The outstanding star for the Wildcats was N. W. Shepard, who scored three out of the four touchdowns made by Davidson. This fleet-footed boy ran through Wake Forest’s line and around ends at will and his work in this game stamped him as one of the real stars of the Davidson team. Moore, another new man on the team this year, ran the team with fine generalship, and carried the ball more than one time for gains of over ten yards. He won his way into the hearts of the Red and Black by the way in which he handled the team and his ability to come out from under a pile of men unscratched. Captain Hammett played true to form which his admirers predicted and was in every play, breaking through the line at will and breaking up many of his opponents' plays. This big tackle broke through the line and blocked a punt of Rabenhorst’s which was recovered by a D. C. man. Poe, Cassell, McFadden, and Schenck did stellar work being in every play. Cassell started the game like a whirlwind, but was put out when he got tangled up with an opponent who was not very gentle. His shoes were ably filled by Poe who distinguished himself by his line bucking. McFadden did all of the kicking for the Wildcats and not one of his punts was blocked. Rough tactics featured the game at certain times but on the whole it was a good hard-fought game. Faison, who replaced Douglas at end, did some nice work on the defense while he was in the game, blocking a punt, and breaking up end runs. He was injured and had to be taken out of the game. Rabenhorst and Heckman did the best work for Wake Forest. Rabenhorst’s punting and Heckman’s defensive work were especially worthy of mention.

Wake Forest made only two first downs during the whole game, one of them being on a forward pass. Between halves the Davidson rooters snake danced around the field to the music of the Band. After the game a large number went winding up Tryon Street and the traffic on the Square was held up for a short time.

The following is the line up and the summary:

Douglas ----- R. E. ----- Heckman
Davis ----- R. T. ----- Pearce
LaFar ----- R. G. ----- Bundy
Brady ----- C. ----- Wall
Romefelt ----- L. G. ----- Moss
Hammett (C) ----- L. T. ----- Blackshear
Schenck ----- L. E. ----- Fulton
Moore ----- Q. B. ----- Johnston
McFadden ----- R. H. B. ----- Fulton
Shepard ----- L. H. B. ----- Johnson
Cassell ----- F. B. ----- Rabenhorst (C)

Substitutes — Davidson: Faison for Douglas; Carter for Davis; Davis for Carter; W. Shepherd for N. Shepherd; N. Shepherd for W. Shepherd; Erwin for Faison; Poe for Cassell.

Davidson 6 7 27
Wake Forest 7 7

Referee: Major Auburn; Umpire: Berry, Springfield; Head Linesman:Messersmith, Lehigh. $1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW (Continued from page 1)

Arkansas, 4. District of Columbia, 2. Oklahoma, 2. West Virginia, 11. Persia, 2. Japan, 6.

Taking the students this year by the following denominations shows: Presbyterians, 406. Methodists, 42. Baptists, 14. Episcopalians, 5. R. P., 5. Reformed, 2. Lutheran, 2. Christian, 1. Non-church members, 13.

In the line of professions there are: Ministry, 75. Medicine and allied lines, 12. Business, 61. Chemistry, 7. Textile, 5. Engineering, 10. Civil engineering, 5. Electrical engineering, 5. Teaching, 4. Farming, 26. Music, 1. Medical Missionary, 7. Journalism, 1. Undecided, 217.

THE GARBER-DAVIS Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras

According to classes the Freshmen as usual outnumber the other classes. They are: Seniors, 67. Juniors, 101. Sophomores, 140. Freshmen, 184. Total in student body, 492.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

TENNIS PLAYERS PREPARE (Continued from page 1)

S. McIlwaine defeated, 6-3, 7-5. In spite of Dunlap’s rush at the start, Wilkinson by slow, steady playing overcame the lead and finally came out on top, 6-4, 7-5. In the most interesting match of the first round, Hugh Bradley, by his smashing serves and swift drives, was just able to overcome Will Roberts by the close score, 6-4, 6-2.

The following men drew byes in the first round and did not have to play until later: J. R. McKeldin, C. P. Harris, C. V. Brown, H. M. Meyers, L. L. Erwin, and Stockard.

Second Round. J. R. McKeldin was unable to stop A. C. Ormond in the second round, though the match was hotly contested and had to bow to the score of 6-4, 6-4. Even with his swift serve and hard driving, Meyers was unable to overcome the cool, steady game of Cunningham and had to taste defeat, 6-4, 10-8.

Third Round. Outplaying his opponent at every phase of the game, Bradley beat Stockard, 6-0, 6-0. Yet to be played: Harris vs. Price. Ormond, A. P. vs. Brown, C. V. Erwin, L. L. vs. Wilkinson. Brown and Ormond; A. P. Cunningham vs. White. Bradley vs. winner of Wilkinson and Erwin. The four who win out in this round will compose the team.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

CIGARETTES

Winston-Salem, N.C. Modern homes and lots you’d enjoy in W-S, a month of ever getting to know Ford’s Renowned Base. Certain businesses, and nationally known factories and our Fully Aunt. — were, any date fork has been furthering owes! Only actual revenue amounting to what would at least amount to, if not exceed, me of Y rate, dare to you. But every workday in the year, R. J. Reynolds buys from our "Uncle Sam" enough stamps to pay for a duplicate of the handsome new Winston-Salem post office building! Ever hear of such a thing? And, thanks to an army of more than 15,000 R. J. Reynolds employees, they are the best in the business. Never saw such a grand lot of men in my life! Looks like more, for them now like a Crinerton-Yale fortified game! Try a Camel and the full back on what I've set to explain at price — quality, for dollar wild, any or odor! It's unlike another time to any Camels and any cigarette I've ever! Camels are simply a revelation! Use the range with the best quality and you'll get satisfaction as quick as you get another after the dinner angle!