Literary News
THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 8, 1920.

PHI SOCIETY HAS A SPLENDID MEETING
New Officers Elected at Joint Meeting of Sections of Eu Society.

Phi Society.
The Phi Society showed that it was alive Saturday night by holding one of the best programs of the season.
As soon as J. W. Baldwin had finished devotional exercises, Nichols led off in the discussion of the Irish Home
Rule question. He showed that he had learned at least one thing from “his” law course, in the requisites of
a state. He proved to his own satisfaction that Ireland was in a position to have freedom. L. G. Calhoun
came back strong for the negative and gave to the hall the main issues as found in Public Speaking. Dunlap,
for the affirmative, according to T. H. Spence, distinguished himself as a speaker who says nothing. L. L. Wilson told
the society there were some Sinn-Feiners in Ireland, and McKeithan went a step farther and said that Lloyd George came
from Ireland. “Rifle Rest” Clark brought up the rear by giving a famous analogy he had learned in that “old
crip” class. The judges saw fit to decide in favor of the affirmative.

To give the extemporaneous speakers time to prepare, C. Hunter gave a remarkable discourse on “Why empty seats are empty.”
Poteat in extempore told the audience that “The Queens girls should be given a permanent invite to the annual field
day exercises.” “Bugs” Robinson tried to prove it wasn’t for the best. But quite naturally the decision was in favor
of the affirmative. Spence, the official adjourner, made the motion, and in the absence of Booker, Dunlap seconded the move
to adjourn, and the assembly stood dismissed.

Eu Society.
The two sections of the Eumenean Society met together Saturday night for the purpose of electing officers for next year.
Only one set of officers was elected. As usual, there will be a Freshman Society during the fall term, and
only one section of upperclassmen. The officers elected were: J. C. McCaskill, president; J. M. Richards, vice-president; E. E. Houghton,
secretary; A. R. Ormand, reviewer; A. M. Mitchell, treasurer; J. P. Price, member debating council.

Like any well-drilled organization, the house executed an “at ease” with a thoroughness that would have been quite astounding to
an outsider unaccustomed to election customs. Campaign speeches and rejoinders were a very pleasing and informing feature. Messrs. Liston, Craig,
Price, and White were in evidence constantly and amused the hall greatly by the “freshness” of the facts(?) as to
the past lives and present statuses of their candidates; in fact, the election of J. M. Richards as secretary is
to be attributed to Liston’s ingenious appeal to the sympathies of fellow sufferers in the military world by characterizing him
as “the gentleman wearing the wrap leggings.” The versatile Price made an excellent stump oration when he nominated J. C.
McCaskill for president. His eloquence was eclipsed a moment later by Craig in his nomination of Mitchell for the same
office. Despite the fact that Oberon’s “What fools these mortals be” would have been remarkably appropriate, the meeting was a
very enjoyable affair.

TEAMS SELECTED FOR FRESH-SOPH DEBATE
Excellent Contests in Both Societies

Eu Society.
Ten men entered the preliminaries to the Fresh-Soph Debate for the Eumenean Literary Society. The subject of the debate was:
“Resolved, That the United States should have some form of Compulsory Military Training.” The speeches of all the contestants were
well worked up and were delivered with such force that the judges had a hard time deciding whose arguments were
the best. The winners were Bitzer, Houghton, and Cooper, with Richards as alternate. The negative side of the debate seemed
the most popular, seven of the ten men choosing that side. The arguments advanced by both sides were well thought
out and on the rebuttals each contestant showed that he really believed in the side which he had chosen by
the force with which he counteracted the arguments of the opposite side. The judges of the contest were Dr. Harding,
Dr. J. M. Douglas, and Professor Hunt.

Phi Society.
The Fresh-Soph preliminary debate was held in the Phi Society Friday night to determine the men that will represent the
society in the inter-society contest debate this month. The query was: “Resolved, That some form of Universal Compulsory Military Training
Should be Adopted in the U. S.” The question was ably discussed pro and con, after which the judges selected
D. P. McGeachy, Jr., LeRoy P. Burney, and Lloyd J. Bray, with J. F. Clark as alternate.

VARIED SUBJECTS CONSIDERED BY POLITY CLUB
Professor Shewmake Discusses Reading; Dr. J. M. McConnell Tells of Political Situation in Mexico

On last Tuesday night the Polity Club held its usual semi-monthly meeting. The regular program was postponed and the club
had the pleasure of hearing two of the most instructive talks of the year. Professor Shewmake chose as his subject
the general topic of “Reading.” His subject was well covered and it was pointed out that every reader should have
a balanced ration in the selection of his reading material as well as in other activities. Using the phraseology of
Bacon, he divided reading matter into three parts and divided the purpose of reading similarly. The divisions of reading as
pointed out were as follows: The material that should be tasted; the material that should be swallowed whole; and the
material that should be chewed and digested. The purpose of reading was shown to be threefold also: First, for amusement;
second, for information; and third, for study, with the idea of putting the knowledge thus gained to some practical use.
Professor Shewmake’s talk was very instructive and the audience greatly enjoyed his remarks.

Dr. J. M. McConnell then gave a short talk on the political situation in Mexico. Tracing briefly the trend of
affairs in this country from the administration of Diaz up to the present time, Dr. McConnell gave the gathering some
very interesting facts concerning the attitude of Mexico towards the United States. He attributed the more or less hostile stand
which that country has taken in the past to three reasons: First, because the Mexican is jealous of the power
of the States; second, because to the Mexican the Monroe Doctrine appears as a patronizing article; and third, because in
a number of cases the leaders have emphasized the above in order to strengthen themselves, politically. Under the present administration
the country and the people are promised better conditions and to the outside world the Carranza government promises to be
effectual in the carrying out of these measures. Dr. McConnell was listened to with intense interest and the club had
a very instructive and entertaining evening.

Men speak the truth as they understand it, and women as they think men would like to understand it.and then
they all act lies which would deceive Solomon, and the result is a heart-rending muddle which a half dozen open
words would put straight.—Kipling.

“THE AMERICAN SHAKESPEARE” DISCUSSED BY PROFESSOR KOCH

North Carolina University Professor Delights Audience With Select Readings.

Among the several lectures made here this spring by various speakers, none have been more interesting and elevating than that
made by Professor Koch, of the University of North Carolina, to the greater part of the student body in Shearer
Hall on Monday night, March 29, on “The American Shakespeare.” After being introduced by Professor Currie, Professor Koch asked the
question, “Where are we at along literary lines today?” Then he said the few Americans who could answer this question
were ashamed to. In speaking of the lowness of our modern dramatic comedies, he said that we are only trying
to live up to these standards, made and supported by Charlie Chaplin. But, he said, the “brainless” Charlie Chaplin comedy
is tomorrow supplanted by the vulgarity of “Fatty” Arbuckle; while Shakespeare is the same yesterday, today and forever.

Professor Koch said that for five years he had seen audience after audience watch and listen spellbound to “The Merchant
of Venice” while right across the street the lower class thronged one night to see John Barrymore’s latest production and
the next day it was forgotten. “There is nothing really funny about Charlie Chaplin,” he said, “and without his crooked
legs he would be as any ordinary man.” Also in our comedies of today everything is planned in advance and
there is no place for any imagination.

Professor Koch spoke of the fact that we fail to appreciate Shakespeare as we should, because many teachers of English
fail to utilize his life. In the future we should study more thoroughly this great comprehender and creator of character.
He also said that in the earlier days when one entered a barber shop or any other public place, he
was handed an elevating play or periodical; but today it’s a choice between the Police Gazette and the Saturday Blade.

Every minute of the talk was enjoyed by all present and we only hope that the student body may be
so fortunate as to get some other speaker of Professor Koch’s type in the near future.

TRUE LOVE.

Jest a sittin’ by th’ fireplace,
In th’ warm light’s cheery glow,
En a watchin’ dreams en visions
In th’ firelight, come en go.
Oh, th’ joy th’ dreams kin bring ye!
Oh th’ hopes we dare not name!
As we sit thru magic hours
Seeing pictures etched in flame.
When I’m feelin’ sorter weary,
Sorter pine for sympathy,
Then I see my truest friend
A lookin’ frum th’ flames at me.
Eyes so tender like en lovin’,
With a message pure en clear.
Send my worries all a humpin’
En plumb fill me up with cheer.
Hair that’s kinder lined with wrinkles
Caused by worries not her own;
Cause th’ care that tumble on me
Air never borne by me alone.
Hair thet’s jest a little silver
Shows th’ sterling o’ th’ heart
Thet hez been my guidin’ Angel
Since my life fust made its start.
Lips that sorter smile approvin’
When I’m sailin’ right along;
En thet droop in grief en sorrer
When I go a leetle wrong.
It’s th’ face o’ one I’m lovin’
Like I’m lovin’ nary other;
‘Cause I’m lookin’, en I’m dreamin’,
En I’m longin’ fer—my mother.—Ex

How Lies Get Started.

Junior—“Were you scared?”
Class-Brother—“No. Were you?”

A very profitable afternoon was spent last week on an egg hunt.

HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
Knox and Barnette
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
681 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

Don’t Forget to Patronize Our Advertisers

Nick Carter and Sam Brady spent a very profitable afternoon last week on an egg hunt.

Save Money

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings
A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

When you refinish furniture and woodwork yourself with Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC.

No matter how badly scratched your doors, floors or furniture, you can easily restore them with one coat of Pee
Gee RE-NU-LAC. The cost is small, the results are great. It comes in all sizes, from 15¢ up. Made in
20 Natural Wood and Enamel Colors. White, Gold and Silver.

PEASLEE-GAULBERT CO., Inc.
Louisville, Ky.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

HERE’S A TRIUMPH FOR PROHIBITION

How It Has Furnished the World With a Valuable Beverage.

While the forces of prohibition were working to the end that alcohol should be banished from the U.S., there was
one man who was working along a different line from either side in the question. For seven years this man
labored in Chicago, to the perfection of an idea he had conceived, that lager beer had never in the past
been properly made. When war time prohibition became a fact, this man was not yet ready with the perfection of
his idea, hence brewers began the making of a new unfermented “near beer,” a crude, undigestible, unhealthful product, which nevertheless
sold in large quantities everywhere.

On July 19, of this year, the U.S. government issued letters patent to this man, for a new plan of
brewing and finishing beer, which he claims should have been in use years ago to make beer a perfectly ideal
beverage for everybody, and in fact superior to any known drink for all the family. A crude experimental plant was
first erected in Chicago, which proved perfect in working detail. Immediately the Golden Grain Juice Company, of Minneapolis, contracted for
this patent plant, which they had in working order Oct. 30th, at a cost of $350,000.

This new product, known as MINNEHAHA, pale and special (light and dark), goes back fifty years in brewing to the
good old rich brew of the old country. Modern beer contained but little barley, being made mostly of corn, rice,
grains, meals, etc. The new patent brew is made of only barley and hops; it is thoroughly fermented and aged
for four months. It is thus rich in digestive properties and high flavor. Just before filtering and pasteurization, the patent
process is introduced, which by vacuum, and without boiling, removes the high wines (alcohol) but not one whit of the
low wines (color and flavor). Taste alone would not and could not detect that the alcohol was absent. It proved
to be exhilarating, however, because of the hops and carbonic gas. The Chicago scientist has proved that alcohol was not
necessary in beer, that in fact it was a detriment, and so prohibition had a use it was never designed
to, for it perfected brewing to a point never dreamed of before. Minnehaha, pale and special, will be shipped to
any part of the United States by the Golden Grain Juice Co., Minneapolis, U.S.A.—Advertisement.
