THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920.

“JAMIE” FOWLE BRINGS MESSAGE

“Jamie” Fowle, '18, who is a Senior at Union Seminary, Richmond, spoke to the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon on “Preparation
for Theological Training.” In his talk, the speaker gave a short outline of the courses pursued at Union and showed
how one would need to know how to consecrate and to use his reasoning faculties. He also laid stress on
outside readings as an important factor in procuring a command of our language. In closing, Fowle showed how the ministerials
could help in the evangelistic campaign and he urged them to put everything they had into it that it may
be a success.

During the business meeting of the Band, it was decided to accept the invitation of the Christian Endeavors and conduct
their Sunday afternoon meeting on November 7. The leaders for the next regular meeting on October 31 will be J.
F. Clark, of Clarkton; W. K. Booth, of Birmingham, Ala.; and C. N. Morrison, of Statesville.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

J. W. SMITH TO SPEAK HERE.

MINISTERIAL STUDENTS

Secretary Will Lead in Vesper Service Next Sunday.

J. Wilson Smith, general secretary of the Y. M. C. A. for North Carolina, is a Christian gentleman of vision
and great energy. The “Y” is fortunate in securing such a man as he to conduct its vesper service next
Sunday. A “Tar Heel” by birth, he has never been able to get very far away from the “Old North
State.”

DAVIDSON Y. M. C. A. COMES SECOND IN GIFTS

Davidson Student Body has put the Davidson “Y” on the map. Our “Y” stands second in per capita gifts to
Christian causes, as is shown by the following table compiled by the University of Alabama after an extensive questionnaire campaign
which included over two hundred colleges and universities.

| Princeton University | $11,000.00 | $6.87 |
|----------------------|-------------|-------|
| Davidson College | 6,100.00 | 7.54 |
| University of Alabama| 2,500.00 | 5.00 |
| Clemson College | 1,200.00 | 1.50 |
| N.C. State | 1,000.00 | 0.44 |
| Harvard University | 5,216.00 | 0.78 |
| University of | 382.75 | 0.41 |

Actual number of Davidson students: 454
Total amount: $2,500.00
Per capita: $5.50

News reached us a few days ago of the marriage of Louis Brand, ex-'19, to Alberta May Dudley, on September
23, in Washington, D. C. He is now pursuing his third year of medicine there. It will be remembered that
Brand holds the college record for the mile run in track.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND.

Although he holds a degree from the University of Tennessee and was for a long time general secretary of the
association at Norfolk, last spring he accepted the general secretaryship for this state and has been busily engaged in this
capacity ever since. Associated as he has been with progressive young Christian men, he will no doubt have a burning
message for every man on the campus.

COX-ROOSEVELT.

(Continued from page 1)

Only those backing Cox for the presidency are members. The founding of such a club was first proposed by Drs.
Lingle, McConnell, and Harding, each of whom made a short address to the students on the subject. The purpose of
the club, according to these gentlemen, is to back the party of President Wilson, a Davidson Alumnus, and to support
the League of Nations.

All classes in the High School have organized class basketball teams. Varsity basketball teams, both of the girls and boys,
will be organized.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

Tone --- Distinct Reproduction—Better Built Motor—Equal a Columbia Grafonola

All standard model machines in stock ready for delivery. To make a good record great, play it on a Columbia
Grafonola. Get the latest music while it is the latest on the Columbia records.

W. T. McCOY & CO.
THE COLUMBIA STORE
209-211 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON HIGH SCHOOL NEWS

List of honor roll students of the Davidson Graded and High Schools for the month of September:

Third—Williard Little.
Fourth—Daisy Caldwell, William Willis, Howard, Oscar Crews, Edna Narnadove, Mack Torrence.
Fifth—Adele Arbuckle Richards, Sarah Withers.
Sixth—Lydia Dye.
Seventh—Sidney Proctor.
Eighth—Howard Arbuckle, Sara Barnette, Jesse Gudger.Janice Proctor. Ninth—Sophie Richards. Jane L. Two literary societies have been organized, one by the
boys, named Wilson Debating Society; the officers are as follows: President, William Black; Vice-President, Richard Grey; Secretary, Joe McConnell. The
girls named theirs the Betsy Ross Debating Society, of which Mildred Hobbs is President and Jean Martin, Secretary.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND. Dr. Weatherford Brings Messages. (Continued from page 1)

...will and do it. A moment's consideration will show us at once that the last-named is the only natural and
normal being, and that we are under great obligations to get the others in line. In its final analysis, we
see that religion is merely right relationship to God and man, living under the knowledge that God is our Father
and all men our brothers, and acting accordingly.

The second service of the campaign, held at the regular vesper service hour, was an inspiration to those who were
present. The problem of how we, the students of Davidson College, could, in our daily lives, become abler leaders of
the great cause, was discussed. The beauty, the influence, and the power of a strong Christian character was shown by
apt illustrations.

A new basketball court, Dr. W. D. Weatherford. Fine theories are all very good, but they fade away into insignificance
when compared with the value of a true Christian character inspiring others to a deeper and more consecrated Christian life.
The way of the reformer and Christian leader is hard, but there will be no real reform until Christian leaders
dominate the life of the community. Three ways by which the spiritual life of a community may be uplifted were
given: (1) We may set higher moral standards than most of the fellows have been living by; something higher, nobler,
and better than we already have. Men are needed who can set such examples and stand by them; (2) We
can help men believe in God; show them that God’s influence makes a great difference practically as well as theoretically;
(3) We can convince the whole world of the vitality of Christianity by the vicarious kind of Christian life that
we live. Many people do not believe in Christianity just because we who are professed Christians often fall so far
short of our ideals, and seemingly try to do no better. We must let the Spirit of Christ live in
and through us if we expect to influence others for good.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE
and TRUST COMPANY, HOME OFFICE, GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

PIEDMONT THEATRE High Class Moving Pictures Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning, Repairing, Moving. CHAS. M. STIEFF,
Inc. ESTABLISHED 1842 M. D. MANNING, Manager Charlotte, N.C. 219 S. Tryon Street

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte,
N. C. R. A. DUNN, President A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier C.
W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

S. & W. CAFETERIA Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices 20 West Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS” Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any
disability one day or more—no limit. Full death benefits in addition—double for accidental death. Rates reasonable. G. W. PATTERSON, Gen'l
Agt. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company 1016-28 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C. Openings for Live men as agents.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S. Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY
and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should
have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got? W.
S. RODDY, Manager J. P. QUARLES, Manager
