THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920

Athletic News

WILDKITTENS DECISIVELY DEFEAT WINSTON-SALEM.

While the first team was on its South Carolina trip, the scrubs defeated the Winston-Salem outfit to the tune of
40 to 15. The Twin City boys were outclassed from the start but put up a game fight. They were
lost on our large floor and could not stand the onslaught of our fast guards.

In the first half, Crawford, for Davidson, was the star of the game, caging the ball every time he got
his hand on it. Mauze at center was also a winning factor, getting most of the tip-offs and throwing four
field goals. The feature of the game was the spectacular guarding of Price and McAlister, who allowed only two field
goals to get by them in the first half.

In the second half, Davis, C., of Winston, got his bearing and proved to be a redeeming feature for his
side. He is captain and coach, and for a while threw a scare into the Kittens, scoring the only nine
points made by his side that half. The lightning speed of McAlister and the impetuosity of Price soon tamed him
down.

A good crowd of students witnessed the game and kept the spirit up to standard. Everybody appreciated the scrappiness of
the High School boys and were sorry to see the odds so greatly against them.

Winston-S. Position Davidson
Cald’l (2) R. Forward Crawf'd (14)
Wilson Left Forward Brake (6)
Scheidt Center Mauze (8)
Moore (2) Left Guard McAlister (4)
Davis, C. (11) Right Guard Price (2)

Substitutes:
Davidson: Toney, Craig (2), King
Winston: Davis, M., Reynolds, Logan.

Referee: Booe.
Timekeeper: Miley, G.
Scorer: Askew.

MR. HILL RESIGNS AS SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING AND GROUNDS

His Five Year Stay Characterized by Faithfulness—R. A. Stiles to Fill Position.

Mr. Hill, who has been with the college for the past five years as superintendent of buildings and grounds, has
resigned and Mr. R. A. Stiles has been employed to fill the position thus made vacant.

Mr. Hill has been a familiar figure on the campus for five years and leaves many improvements to testify to
his inventive and mechanical ability. One of the first jobs he took hold of was to cover and materially improve
the looks of Oak Row and Elm Row. He then covered Rumple Dormitory, planted the shrubbery around the Library, laid
an iron sewer line to replace an obstructed terra cotta one from the Library to the rear of the Georgia,
built the present grandstand at the athletic field (probably the greatest appreciated work he has done), finished two of the
present Physics Laboratory rooms, renewed and rearranged the plumbing in the Chemical Laboratory, took the two small water tanks off
the roof of the Chambers, and helped erect the present 80,000-gallon tank and tower, dug eight new wells, built a
pump-house, substituted a four-inch pipe line for an inadequate one-and-one-half inch main, extended the water system to the gymnasium and
provided fire hydrants accessible to all buildings, designed and built the concrete steps in front of the gymnasium—a gift of
the class of 1918. He also erected the flag-pole—a gift of the class of 1917. Mr. Hill, in other words,
has been intimately connected with the physical side of the college in its rapid growth over the past five years.
We are glad that he and his family are to continue their residence in Davidson. Mr. Hill is an elder
in the Presbyterian church and is ever faithful in religious matters.

Mr. Stiles, the new superintendent, is a Davidson man. For ten years or longer, he was connected with the Southern
Cotton Oil Company, in the Davidson branch. For the past year or more, he has been with the same company
at Gibson, N.C. Mr. Stiles is a young man, full of energy and enthusiasm. He enjoys the confidence of the
whole community and will meet with cooperation on the part of the students in his new work. Mr. Stiles has
not his plans fully outlined yet but will have an office, probably at the “shop” where he can be found
when his duties do not call him elsewhere. All repairs such as window glass, packing spigots, etc., will be reported
to him in person or deposited at a place he will provide at his office. Matters of this kind will
have prompt attention. Mr. Stiles will have a phone at home and later...will have one at his office. Members of
the faculty and the town people can communicate with Mecklen on matters pertaining to the water and light plants, etc.

WILDCATS BREAK EVEN ON FOUR DAY TRIP

Chero-Cola Company
ARCH. B. TAYLOR, ’11, Manager

Brice and Roberts Stars—All Games Close and Exciting.

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS

On the second day of the South Carolina trip, the Wildcats were set back by Presbyterian College by a 37
to 30 score. The team fought hard, but did not display the flash similar to that of the preceding night
when they defeated Wofford. The team was at a slight disadvantage caused by the nature of the court, there being
no out of bounds at either end and on one side. On the other hand, the P. C. lads showed
class at shooting while near the end walls. The game started in a rush, both teams caging some easy shots
and then the defense of both sides stiffened and the remainder of the half was devoid of many thrills. MacMillan,
speedy P. C. forward, caged several difficult baskets in this half. Roberts also scored two shots from the center of
the floor.

The second half started slow, but the Wildcats soon staged a desperate rally, coming up to within a couple of
points of the winners. The P. C. team, however, came back strong in the final minutes and won by a
sufficient margin. The features of the game were the shooting of Belk for the winners, scoring 21 points, and of
Roberts for the losers, scoring 14 points. The score:

P.C. Position Davidson
MacMillan (10) - Roberts (14)
Woody (2) - Hall (6)
Forwards
Belk (21) - Romefelt
Center
Clarke - Chalmers
Wilson (4) - Bryce (10)
Guards

Clemson Game.

The third game of the trip was lost to Clemson by a 38 to 27 score. The team traveled all
morning and played in the afternoon, but nevertheless put up a game fight against their heavier opponents. The play was
rough at all times, fouls being called repeatedly for charging and holding. The game began slowly, but toward the middle
of the first half both sides began to locate the basket and the game became faster despite the frequent fouls
called. Schenck and Colbert led in the scoring for the Tiger clan. The half ended 23 to 16 in favor
of Clemson.

The second half opened up with a swift Wildcat offensive which brought them within four points of the Clemson five.
However, at this stage of the game Romefelt was knocked out, and also the Tiger defense tightened, the combination of
which was too much for the Wildcats and their opponents drew gradually away from them. The features of the game
were the shooting of Roberts for the losers, who scored 17 of the team’s points, and the fast playing of
Schenck and Colbert for the Tiger clan.

The score:

Clemson Position Davidson
Schenck (15) - Roberts (17)
Colbert (11) - Hall
Forwards

(Continued on page 3)

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String
Instruments, and Everything in Music.

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 4, 5 and 6

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

COUNTESS VERONA
Musical Genius of the Czimbalom

A. C. ASTOR and McGINTY

EDWARD ESMONDE and COMPANY
Present an Original Satire, “UNCLE MONTE”

RENN and CAVANAUGH
In “Let the Wedding Bells Ring”

DIXON, BOWERS and DIXON
Three Country Bumpkins
