DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of ‘15 : “The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Maltor-in-Chief
Editor-in-Chief: R. BOULWARE, Jr.
Assignment Editor: L. HENCK
Athletic Editor: Alumni Editor: S. GHALMERS
Exchange Editor: F. SPENCE
Campus Editor: L. G. CALHOUN
Literary Editor: C. A. WILSON
Official Photographer: J. BARTON, III

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. R. BITZER
B. B. BREITENHIRT
C. M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
A. T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDS
A. E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

King, A. D.; Mauze, G. W.; Ormand, A. P.; Fraser, T.; Bailey, J. C.; McGuire, E. H.; Ogden, D. H.

Business Manager: L. S. MATTHEWS
Assistant Manager: R. G. SCHOLL
Circulation Manager: L. W. LIGHTIN
Assistant Managers: [Names not provided]

EDITORIAL

There must be something mystical about five Sundays in February coming once in forty-eight years, for we had snow instead
of rain for Junior Speaking.

R. WILLIAM MATHER LEWIS, Director of the savings division of the Treasury Department, last week delivered a lecture on the
“Dollar Education” in which he outlined and discussed what he considered one of the biggest problems before America today. Out
of the experiences of the war has come the realization that financial problems are to become an increasingly important factor
in American life. The need for educating the future business men in the economic problems and in the principles of
working and saving has become indelibly impressed on the financial leaders of our nation.

Various means have been used in other countries for the promotion of thrift. In this country, it has been propagated
through the widespread advertisements of the treasury department. Now it is proposed that courses be carried on at all institutions,
either compulsory or elective, for the study of economics with emphasis on the necessity of cultivating the habit of saving.

It happens very opportunely that some of the donations which were received in the recent campaign were specified to be
devoted to the establishment of a chair of Economics. This department is expected to fill a long-felt need in the
curriculum. Of course, it is not definitely known what the course will include nor how extensive it will be, but
such courses as are urged by the treasury department will naturally be included.

Davidson is not a college which is expected to prepare a man for a special business or profession but the
vocations which the graduating classes pursue vary widely from those of former days. It is surprising to consider the number
of the class of '19 who are now in the cotton mill or some other form of business. In any
profession, even the knowledge of economic principles and conditions should prove an invaluable asset. This privilege, therefore, should be cherished
and appreciated by the classes which are to follow.

CO-OPERATION.

During the past few months, many public criticisms and more private murmurings have been made against the faculty on some
of their rulings. Before making such protests we should first take into consideration what the results may be. It can
be said with little fear of successful contradiction that kicking helps very little the cause for which the complaints are
made. The byproducts of such a spirit are the far-reaching and dangerous results.

At this time when Davidson is in the midst of a transition, absolute harmony and co-operation between the faculty and
students is essential to success. Our adherents are nobly responding to our demands in the campaign for money. They are
expecting on the other hand a just return from their investments. For their hopes to be fully realized every member
of the faculty and student body must work wholeheartedly for the building up of the college.

Wherever Davidson representatives have gone they have added to her reputation of having an unexampled spirit of co-operation and love
for their Alma Mater. This is a reputation to be highly honored and cherished by any college and certainly one
that no loyal Davidson man wants to see destroyed.

The faculty may be wrong in some of their decisions, but why continue to complain and whine over such items
as credit for military work? Do all that can be done and if unsuccessful take it like a man and
forget it. It is a student’s privilege to stand up for his rights and no one would desire to deprive
him of it, but constant complaining which often takes the form of unclassified but familiar words is not conducive to
his own realization of the future Greater Davidson.

MOVIES DELIGHT LARGE AUDIENCE FRIDAY NIGHT

It is rumored that the occasional representatives of the fair sex kept a large number of the fellows from seeing
the picture last week. Nevertheless, it was a very good one. “The Parson of Panamint” was shown and William Farnum
acted his role of “the parson” in the most excellent manner. He held the audience from the beginning, when he
appeared in a fight, until the very end, when he jumped from the burning church steeple. Although the end was
a little pathetic, the movie was full of pep and action and was much enjoyed by those present.

The band entertained the audience during the changing of reels with several selections. This music is one of the best
features of the weekly movie shows and everyone appreciates it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920.

Open Forum

Most Mighty Sanhedrin:

Despite the many warnings of your executive to the fellows on the hill to let there be light in our
corridors and baths, the lights continue to disappear. It can certainly be said here that Davidson men love darkness rather
than light—at least there are a few who believe this. It appears to me that you should begin to use
more drastic measures than warnings against the culprits. It seems that a light hardly gets cold in the socket before
it is removed. Should these few petty light lifters be allowed to take our lights from the halls and baths
for their own personal use, while the rest of the fellows grope around in the dark? The time has come
when the end of the rope of our endurance has been reached. Everyone looks to your body to enforce the
laws of this institution.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

SOME SIGNS OF SPRING.

What Is Love?

Unexpressed,
Strange fancies,
Sweet unrest—
That’s Love.

Much musing,
Sudden sighs,
Bright blushes,
Downcast eyes—
That’s Love.Love. Verse-making, campus. What good is a law, without enforcement? Let us turn over a new leaf and cut
out this nuisance. Little food—I wish you no harm but I hope you have the pleasure of falling down three
flights of stairs in the dark, and maybe the shock will wake you up to action. Faithfully yours,

That’s Love. Hands captured, Stolen kiss, Half shrinking, Trembling bliss— That’s Love.

A “Pharisee.” Rosy hours, softly hurled; PAX VOBIS CUM. Too happy For this world— That’s Love.

What is love that all the world Talks so much about it? What is love, that neither you Nor I
can do without it? —Ex.

And, still, there are a lot of perfectly well-meaning persons who will read it, and take it all in, and
nod their heads in sweet accord, and vow by their lives that a parable has certainly been spoken and their
sentiments expressed to a “T.” I refer to those anti-R.O.T.C. articles that are beginning to get on the nerves of
a lot of us, just as it gets on our nerves to have to listen to a dog whining all
day, or a baby crying all night. In either case, most of us would like mightily to heave a brick
at the offender. What on earth do the gentlemen hope? Do they never stop to think that the R.O.T.C. is
a part of the armed protective force of the United States? Do they never stop to think that they are
howling and kicking against one of the safeguards of our Nation? Can’t they see how ridiculous and despicable they make
themselves by their feeble little convulsions over an institution that they apparently have no power to comprehend in its broad
scope? Don’t they realize that the R.O.T.C. is vastly more than a mere college activity, and that their complaints are
unpatriotic? “It should be kicked out,” they cry, in effect. Do they think so highly of their wisdom and insight
that they can prescribe what is best for themselves, the college, and the Nation? Hadn't they better, instead, guard themselves,
lest they be kicked from the R.O.T.C. and disregarded? If they let words govern their actions, and if their words
continue in the present tone, they might as well be kicked out, for all the good they can ever be
to the organization. “We voted it in, and we can vote it out,” they say. Then why don’t they vote
it out, and say nothing more about it? Better to do that, than to keep it here, and continue to
be a disgrace to the organization, the uniform, and the Flag. But by so doing, are they going to make
confession of the fact that they are so lazy of body, so stunted of mind, and so void of desire
to become useful citizens, capable of bearing arms for their country’s defense that they are unwilling to give of their
time and energy to serve the land their forefathers and their very brothers have given their lives for? But why
not stiffen up the backbone a little, and determine that, if the Government thinks there ought to be an R.O.T.C.
unit here, we will see that it is the best unit that we can possibly make it? Most of us
did not serve in the recent war, from one cause and another. Isn’t it about the least we can do
to take advantage of every opportunity to prepare ourselves for military service, and determine with a great determination, that, if
at some future day we shall hear the call of duty, we will not be found lacking? Duty calls now:
it calls to preparation. Are we men enough to hear it, and to obey the call, or are we a
bunch of puny weaklings? Let’s be men!

Major Offense.

E’en the flowers seem to love you— And smile as you pass by; The birds sing with a melody Unheard
till you are nigh; The trees all bend their leafy arms— And bow in courtly grace; The sun more brightly
sends its rays To shine upon your face. I'm glad when all these worship you But—though glad I’m jealous too,
For none can love and cherish you As I, sweetheart, can do. —Ex.

SURELY NOT YOU.

I might forget music And a lot of things too, Faces and pleasures, But surely not—You! I might forget knowledge
And smiles, quite a few, And lusters and sages— But surely not—You! Is forgetting an illness Some weakness anew, That
steals away thought, But ne’er that of—You?

Then power of illness Makes me fail to do What I should by forgetting, Oh, surely not—You! The matter is
puzzling To me, strangely new, Why should I forget And not forget—You? I am startled, bewildered By a fact novel,
true, Though my mind ever wanders— It wanders to—You! And I might forget music And a lot of things too,
Faces and pleasures— But surely not—You! —Ex.

MODERNE.

Say, kid, you said you wanna dance? Well, I’m your pard; let's go. Just listen to that jazz band play
A fox-trot, jazzy and slow. Now child, you sure do shake your foot. Gosh, gal! You’ve got some lamps; You’d
make a preacher leave his church— You sure are queen of “vamps.” Gracious me, look at that moon, It surely
is a peach. Let’s find a bench—I’ll show you how I’ll use my thirty-inch reach —Ex.

BUY A PIPE.

God made him a creature of infinite wit, As cautious and canny as sin; He gave her the powers of
him in the pit To deceive and beguile us poor men, When Adam was lonely and bemoaned his hard lot,
Sweet Eve sprang out from his ribs Suggested to do those things he should not, And enslaved the wise scamp
with her fibs. By a chasm of time, we are lost from that day; New customs we find, and new
styles. But the daughters of Eve, in an up-to-date way Continue to practice their wiles. A flash of bright eyes,
soft gurgles of glee, Play their part in setting the snare; Beware, my son, of the ladies you see, Blue-eyed,
with pale blond hair. The devil made dimples to wreck man’s career, That implacable foe of man Becomes of good
cheer, and draws quite near When you gaze at her “lily white hand.” Be strong, my son; success shall be
thine; Stop holding the bag for snipe; Don’t whine like a pup at a “fair one’s” shrine, For solace, go
buy you a pipe. —Ex.

Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected tobacco—every tobacco tastes better in a WDC Pipe. French briar makes it so.
Add to this the supercraftsmanship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we claim pre-eminence in the quality
of our pipes. Ask any good dealer. WM. DEMUTH & CO... NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.
