4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

G. B. H. ASKEW.................Editor-in-Chief
J. B. CASSELL....................Managing Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, Jr...........Associate Editor
G. McCABE.......................Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS..............Exchange Editor
E. A. HILL.........................Forum Editor
T. H. SPENCE....................Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN.................Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON....................Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, Jr................Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE..............Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHELL
B. BREITENHIRT
R. DOUBLES
W. MOORE
M. RICHARDS
C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
A. B. M.
W. J. J.

Additional Reporters for this issue are:
Ormand, A. P.; Wildeman, C. F.; Gamble, W. L.; McGuire, E. H.; Denny, S. H.; King, A. D.; Long, C.
G.; Calhoun, M. L.; Thames, F. C.; Booth, P.

J. MATTHEWS..................Business Manager
T. H. WILSON...................Assistant Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Managers

EDITORIAL

If the man who wrote “Carolina Sunshine” had been in Davidson for the past two weeks we would soon have
a new edition of “Throw Out the Life-line,” “I'm Always Chasing Rainbows,” or perhaps “Sink or Swim.”

The only mistake the Million Dollar Campaigners made was in not leaving the whole thing to the Davidson student body.

The “Y” has some new song books which are for the purpose of singing from and not for election ballots
or tapping someone off on the bean.

The fellow who said, “There’s Nothing like a good cold shower these mornings,” certainly knew what he was talking about.

Fill your head with trifles and you will not have room for the big things.

There can be no complaint this year of having no games on the home court, for some of the liveliest
scraps of the season will be staged right here on our local floor. Every man in college of course will
be there and everyone will be loyally rooting for his team, no matter what the fortunes of the game might
be. These things go without saying, but there are certain rules of courtesy and etiquette which in our enthusiasm should
not be overlooked.

In the game with North Carolina, of which we have every reason to feel truly proud, there were some remarks
passed and some yelling done that could hardly reflect credit on our student body. As an instance of this, the
jeering when the opponents were attempting to shoot a foul or had missed a foul was not the courtesy due
to a visiting team. Also such remarks as “kill him,” “hit him,” etc., are liable to create the impression that
the object which the players have in view is seeing how many can be knocked out.

If we can’t beat the best team they have without disposing of their men, then they are welcome to the
game. The players realize this, and such jeers and taunts cannot be appreciated by them.

If a team would come here and find a quiet, peaceful audience, which never opened their mouths, they would be
disappointed. The more the yelling and the louder the yelling the better it is for you and the team, but
in giving vent to your enthusiasm and desire to win, pick the proper time and be careful not to urge
your team to do things that they themselves do not approve.

THE STRAIGHT AND NARROW PATH.

As regular as the years roll around there are certain questions that have to be brought to the attention of
the student body to secure their co-operation. Conspicuous among these is the cutting of paths across the campus. The present
Senior class can easily recollect how in every year of their stay here steps have had to be taken to
save the looks of the campus, and perhaps every class as far back as 1837 has had to be reminded
annually of the same thing. In many respects this year has been an exception, but as regards this item it
has followed the usual course. Between Rumple and the Phi hall, between Chambers and chapel, there is as usual a
regular highway. As an addition this year, between Elm Row and Abbott’s, there has developed a veritable wagon road. The
beauty of the campus is shamefully marred by these short cuts, and without necessitating the erection of fences, it could
and should be voluntarily stopped by the students. A little thing it is to cross the campus once, but when
your whole dormitory or your whole boarding house follows in your footsteps, it amounts to a great deal. By actual
calculation you will find that the saving of time and steps is so small as to be negligible. Why not
then stick to the regular walk and for once suffer your footsteps to deviate from the straight and narrow path!

A letter has just been received from one of the best friends the college ever had which closes with a
remark that should make an appeal to every trespasser: “It makes those who love the campus heartily sick to see
how it is being treated this year.” Certainly we can stop it before further damage is done and thus do
our part for the maintenance of as beautiful a campus as there is in the country.

BASKETBALL ETIQUETTE.

Four basketball games in one week is a treat that Davidson seldom has a chance to see.

Toronto air race that was recently held. A Columbia machine will leave Roosevelt field at Mineola, Long Island, and fly
to the Harvard stadium and return, while a Harvard machine is covering the distance in the opposite direction, from Cambridge
to Mineola and return. Yale’s flier will either go from New York to Mineola and return with a handicap to
make up for the difference in distance, or will follow a three-cornered course from New Haven to Cambridge to Mineola.—Spectator.

Open Forum

Regarding Sunday Breakfast.

There is no doubt but that every student on the campus has the utmost respect and regard for the ladies
who board the boys. There was an article in last week’s Forum advocating getting to breakfast on time Sunday mornings.
But think a moment. Why not do away with Sunday breakfast altogether? Indeed we will. We know the appeals to
the boys to make it snappy so the ladies can get dinner ready by 12 o'clock. He says that “this
is the most troublesome meal of the whole week—yet it is attended by not over20 per cent of the student
body! What does anybody go to breakfast on Sunday morning for? Is it hunger—or just conscientious scruples that demand him
to take everything he can get? Dinner on Sunday is one hour and 40 minutes earlier than usual. There is
no chapel. Who wants to eat breakfast at 8:30 or 9:00, and another meal in three hours—or one should say—who
needs it? This plan would be of immense relief to the boarding house matrons. Under it, they could take their
much-deserved rest. They would have ample time to prepare dinner by 12, and would not have the waste left over
from breakfast, or the worry of not having enough. The waiters would have one morning off, when they too could
sleep until time for Bible classes. There is no doubt but that the ladies would be glad to increase the
dinner by that amount of cost and trouble which the breakfast would have caused, thereby benefiting all instead of planning
for the “conscientious few.” Is not this plan more economical, will it not do the greatest good to the largest
number? Think seriously—then act. Give the boarding house ladies their due, let the waiters rest, and do the best thing
for the student body—do away with Sunday breakfasts.

Davidsonians will, and we will, too. The N. C. C. delegates surely will boost Davidson at every possible chance. They
had a fine group of delegates to Des Moines, and we are sure that they are really representative of their
college. From now on let’s be “sure-nuff” pals.—Carolinian.

Cigarettes Placed Under Ban By The Faculty.

The committee appointed to make suggestions relative to the matter of cigarette smoking, begs leave to report the following recommendations:
1. That the Faculty of Mississippi College puts itself on record as definitely opposed to the practice of cigarette smoking.
2. That, beginning with the present date, the faculty prohibit the smoking of cigarettes in the lecture halls and on
the college campus as well as on the streets of the town and in all public places in the town.
3. That the Faculty refuse to furnish any kind of financial assistance or any form of unqualified recommendation to any
student who is a habitual user of tobacco in any form.
4. That the Faculty inflict the following penalties to cover violations of the above-named regulations: (a) For the first offense,
20 demerits, which penalty shall be reported immediately to the parent or guardian of students involved; (b) For the second
offense, probation with restrictions for 20 days.—Miss. Collegian.

Out of 63 colleges on one list, 22 have endowment campaigns on, and several others are waiting a later day.
The total asked by the twenty-two is $100,000,000.

Oglethorpe University has just completed the raising of a $1,000,000 endowment fund. The campaign began eight years ago with subscriptions
of $100 per year and has grown until the goal was recently passed with several thousand dollars over.—The Petrel.

Columbia, Harvard, and Yale will take part in a three-cornered airplane race next spring. The contest will be modeled on
the New York-Kentucky.

The Choice of a President.

President Wilson has taught America one lesson—the choice of a president is of paramount importance, and a matter of life-and-death
to every family. Previous to the administration of Mr. Wilson, the average citizen considered it not only a profitable but
a safe and wise policy to let politicians take care of politics while he devoted his energies to private affairs.
The general interest shown all over the country in the approaching presidential election demonstrates clearly that America intends to obliterate
this erroneous view. Men of public spirit and true perception are pressing to the front with determination to let the
people choose instead of the national conventions, that have previously been ruled by professional office-seekers. Consequently, a great number of
theories concerning the qualifications necessary for a successful President have been advanced.

At present, the trend seems to be toward a business man for President. In a period of such unsettled circumstances,
the popularity of this movement is easily understood. The people want a man of action—a man capable of comprehending industrial
disputes and world politics. Yet the people want a man who has great administrative capacity and the courage to uphold,
unflinchingly, what he thinks is just and for the best interests of the nation. Two men in particular are uniquely
qualified, according to the above standard, for the critical position of President—Herbert Hoover and Mitchell Palmer. The record of Mr.
Hoover, as Food Administrator, is without parallel in our history. No other man has ever had such a tremendous task
thrust upon him. He had to so conserve and administer our food supply as to feed practically all of Europe.
The story of his splendid success shows a superb administrative ability and an undaunted courage in the carrying out of
this unpopular task.

Although his previous record is not generally known, Mr. Palmer has demonstrated marked talent as Attorney General. With the aid
of the Department of Justice, he has instituted a vigorous campaign against the underlying cause of our industrial troubles—Aliens—which has
so far been singularly successful. In all of his other activities, Mr. Palmer has shown himself to be an American
of superior intelligence, of great integrity, and of faithfulness to his conviction. If the people of America adopt a non-partisan
attitude, then surely both of these men will be dominating figures in November, when the choice is actually made.

W. W. C.

The students of Lafayette College have raised a sum of $5,000 towards a new gymnasium. This represents a per capita
subscription of $33.—The Lafayette.

Pipes are certainly a man’s smoke. They bring the smokejoy which every man seeks. It’s in the mellow French briar,
which is guaranteed against cracking or burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workmanship and design. Select
several shapes today at any good dealer’s. Smoke a cool one every time.

W. DEMUTH & CO., New York
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
