THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

(It will be the plan of this department to run a short sketch of a prominent alumnus of the college each week throughout the year in order that the general public may see some sidelights on prominent Davidson alumni.)

Sketch No. 1, Woodrow Wilson.

President Wilson belongs to the Scotch-Irish stock whose arrival in the American colonies, at the time when the settlements were only a narrow coastwise strip, gave the first start to effective occupation of the interior. He was born at Staunton, Va., December 28, 1856. His parents being Dr. Joseph Wilson and Janet Woodrow Wilson. Shortly after his birth, the family moved to Augusta, Ga. His father having a distinguished career in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Although Woodrow Wilson’s early life was spent in the South during the Civil War, he escaped its severities. He was not quite nine years old when the war ended and the only effect the war had on his life was the postponing of the beginning of his school days. He began his schooling in an academy opened by a Confederate veteran who had returned to civil pursuits. It was a good school and numbered many distinguished men among its graduates.

The Wilsons moved from Augusta to Columbia, S. C., where Woodrow went to school at a local academy. In spite of his late start, he advanced so well in his studies that by the time he was seventeen he was ready to go to college. In 1873 he entered Davidson College. While here he had as classmates, R. M. Miller, Jr., of Charlotte, N. C., Thornton Whaling, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, Mr. Carter of Mt. Airy, and other prominent men who are still living. He joined the Eumenean Literary Society and while a member was appointed to copy the constitution of the society and was given a vote of thanks by the society for his services. (The society record shows where W. Wilson was fined several times for minor charges, such as sitting on the rostrum, keeping books out overtime, etc. This was quite characteristic of the students of that day.) He played on the college baseball team. His grades in both terms were of a very satisfactory nature. He returned to Wilmington after his first year here, where his father was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church. He had been ill for some time and rested for a while but in the meantime was pursuing certain studies for entrance to Princeton University. He matriculated there in September, 1875. His general average while at Princeton was 90.3 and he stood thirty-eighth in a class of one hundred and six. In philosophy, ethics, history, and political science he always received a high rating, but in scientific branches he received a lower rating. The most remarkable and significant performance of his undergraduate period was an article on “Cabinet Government in the United States.”

After getting his A.B. degree from Princeton in 1879, Woodrow Wilson matriculated in the law school of the University of Va., in the autumn of the same year. While there he applied himself diligently to forensic training. He was active in the Jeffersonian Society. In May, 1882 he went to Atlanta to begin the practice of law. He was not attracted to Atlanta by any personal associations, but because the city was rapidly growing and a progressive place. In the autumn of 1883, he went to Johns Hopkins University. He spent two years at Hopkins and received his Ph.D. in 1886. His career at Hopkins was brilliantly successful. In 1902 he was inaugurated as president of Princeton University. When Dr. Wilson became president of the University the problem was to maintain the old standards and yet broaden the curriculum so as to meet the needs of a modern university. In the November election of 1910, he received a plurality of 49,056, for governor of New Jersey, although only two years before the Republican plurality was 82,776. His career as governor was quite successful and it is not necessary in this short sketch to go into details. A motion nominating him for the presidency was made in the Democratic State Convention of 1911, of which he was a member, but he opposed it, as a proceeding inconsistent with the principle of the direct primary. He was nominated by the Democratic National Convention at Baltimore, on July 2, 1911, on the forty-sixth ballot. His administration in both terms ranks with the greatest our country has had and history will place them along with the administrations of Washington and Lincoln. As Statesman, Educator, author, and world leader, we are proud to pronounce him, not only our greatest alumnus, but the greatest man of the present day.

ALUMNAE NEWS.

Weddings.

Mrs. David Terry Martin requests the honor of your presence at the marriage of her daughter Helen to Mr. William Mitchel Shaw, (’12) Wednesday evening, September, the twenty-second, at half after eight o’clock First Presbyterian Church Salem, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. John Robert Sharpe request the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their daughter Lois Athlene to Mr. Robert Haynes Jones, (’16) on Thursday afternoon, the tenth of June, at five o'clock at their residence Donalds, South Carolina.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hancock Wood announce the marriage of their daughter Mary Thornton to Mr. William Hudson Rogers, (’13) on Thursday, June the twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and twenty Charlottesville, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. George John Tigg request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter Sarah Elizabeth to Reverend Daniel A.McNeim, (’11) on Monday evening, July the nineteenth, nineteen hundred and twenty, at eight o'clock Lamberts Point Presbyterian Church Norfolk, Virginia. Mrs. Sarah Frances Florence requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of her daughter Ella Cody to Mr. Charles Barnett Whiteside (ex-’18) Wednesday afternoon, the thirtieth of June, nineteen hundred and twenty, at three o’clock Birmingham, Alabama. Mr. and Mrs. Albert Stuart Armsby announce the marriage of their daughter Edith Worthington to Mr. Harold Wright Whitlock, (’11) on Wednesday, the twenty-third of June, nineteen hundred and twenty Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Lee Snowden announce the marriage of their daughter Pauline to Mr. Thomas Kirkland Trotter, ('15) on Wednesday, the twenty-third of June, nineteen hundred and twenty Charleston, South Carolina. Mrs. Mary Ellen Williamson announces the marriage of her daughter Rowena Ora to Rev. John Kemp Hobson, (’17) on Friday, June the twenty-fifth nineteen hundred and twenty San Antonio, Texas. Many will be interested to hear of the recent marriage in Honolulu, of Miss Blanche Scott, of Graham, and Dr. Stephens Simmons, '11, now Major in the Laboratory Department Hospital there. Engagement of Miss Greta Wezen Announced to Mr. Voorhees Garth, '18. One of the most brilliant social events of the season was a tea given by Judge and Mrs. E. B. Cline to Miss Naomi Trent which later proved to be the announcement of the approaching marriage of Miss Greta Wezen to Mr. Voorhees Garth. After the guests assembled they were given a basket of pink bows representing good wishes to be thrown at what they saw in the dining room and as the wedding march proclaimed from the victrola, the doors were thrown open and the good wishes were showered upon Miss Greta Wezen standing under a huge pink parasol bearing the inscription “G. & V.” The dining room was beautifully decorated with pink roses, the color scheme being pink and being effectively carried out. Twelve places were arranged for the guests and at each place an attractive cupid place card and favor was found, on which Greta and Voorhees, October 9, 1920. An elaborate two-course dinner was served amid much merriment. Miss Wezen was beautifully attired in a creation of bright blue and black embroidered silk net wearing a corsage of pink roses. The handsome home of Judge The invited guests were Miss Greta Wezen, Miss Naomi Trent, Mrs. O. H. Hester, Misses Rose and Frank Martin, Mary Allen, Katheryn Taylor, Frances Geitner, Elizabeth Holbrook, Millie Kate McComb, Helen Springs, Sadie Menzies and Mrs. A. Wezen. Miss Wezen is the only daughter of Mrs. A. Wezen and is a beautiful and accomplished member of the social set. Mr. Garth is the eldest son of Rev. and Mrs. J. G. Garth, of Charlotte, and is a young man of sterling qualities. Both are well known and popular young people and the good wishes of hosts of friends from all over the state are with them. Rev. J. W. Brown, '12, who, since his Y. M. C. A. war service, has been doing graduate work at Princeton Seminary, sailed recently from New York for Armenia. Mr. Brown will continue “Y” work in that needy field. Dr. A. M. McAuten, '16, was graduated from Johns Hopkins University last June. He is now at the Union Protestant Hospital in Baltimore. H. B. Overcash, '15, is Professor of Chemistry at Catawba College. Since Prof. Overcash went to Catawba, it has added a quarter of a million to its assets, and will build a new science hall this year. Dr. G. H. Cartledge, ‘11, and professor at Davidson until he entered war service, is now associate professor in chemical department of Johns Hopkins University.

IN MEMORIAM. Robert Karnegay, Jr., ex-’21, was instantly killed on the afternoon of June 23rd, on his father’s farm a few miles from Mount Olive, when he was crushed between the seat and steering wheel of a tractor that reared up and fell while the young man was attempting to get the machine out of a hole. He was 22 years of age and a member of one of the best known families of the Mount Olive section.

C. E. Rankin, ’17, is now professor of English in the Maynard School for Boys, 55 Hanson Place, Brooklyn, N.Y. Dr. J. S. Mitchiner, '09, of Edenton, has been placed in charge of the bureau of epidemiology at the state board of health. Guess So. If a young man just starting out got a job marking up trains at the depot, could you say that he started off marking time?

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C. 213 N. Tryon St.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry OLDEST LARGEST BEST The Macamac Company, Agency POWER HOUSE Robinson Shoe Company We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION Robinson Shoe Company GASTONIA, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS” Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more---no limit. Full death benefits in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company 1016 -18 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C. Openings for Live men as agents