THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL, Editor-in-Chief
A.B. ORMOND, Assistant Managing Editor
J.P. PRICE, Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES, Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS, Alumni Editor
J.C. McCASKILL, Exchange Editor
J.M. DUNDAP, Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS, Y. M.C. A. Editor
S. L. SUMMERS, Social Editor
S. WAIN, Business Manager
C. H. LONG, Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL, Assistant Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING, R. BITZER, M. W. DOGGETT, PHILLIPS TUFTS, BOOKER L. LISTON, CUNNINGHAM GILMER, J. W. E. H. D. L. MAHOOD, A. M. MITCHELL, B. B. BRITENHIRT, W. W. MOORE, J. C. WOOL

Additional Reporters for this issue: A. D. King, J. T. Wilkes, A. C. Ormond, E. H. McGuire, C. D. Fuller, R. R. Craig, G. W. Mauze, W. T. Elliott, M. P. Calhoun, O. P. Hart, W. J. Cooper, J. C. Bailey, A. F. Fricker, W. A. Gamble, C. B. Sanders.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
G. OLTMAN, Business Manager
A. G. OLTMAN, Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The first day of April and the first issue of the new staff, but we hope that there will be no linking of the two events together.

From all reports it seems that the student body was well nigh overwhelmed with holiday generosity of the Faculty for last week-end. A surprising fact is that not a single student complained about the loss from his studies. Isn’t that “fighting spirit” of the Red and Black teams wonderful? The come-back staged in the first Oak Ridge game is typical of all Davidson teams.

Our advice to the students who can find nothing better to do than annoy the band by flipping pebbles at them while playing is that they find another diversion. Making mud pies would be better in connection with their childish tendencies, for this at least would not be disturbing to others.

WAS IT A SUCCESS?

Those who attended the Greater Davidson Club Banquet Thursday night were present at one of the biggest events in the history of the college; those who failed to avail themselves of this splendid opportunity have lost something that they can never retrieve. The affair was a grand success.

Course Now Offered in Football and Baseball.

Scientific football and the art of inside baseball are included in the catalogue of lecture subjects soon to be issued by the University Extension division of the University of California. One may now take this course by mail and become one of the best developed players. Similarly, one may, by merely taking a course by mail, break into the national league.

General Pershing has been invited to deliver the commencement address at V. M. I. Though he has not yet responded to this invitation, it is generally supposed that he will do so.

Yale University. For the first time in the history of Yale University, students may now be admitted without having studied Latin.—Yale Record.

University of Texas. An aviation club is to be organized at the University of Texas with all men who were in any way connected with the air service eligible for membership. One of the students, a former lieutenant, is offering free rides to a certain number of students in his plane—The Daily Texan.

AS TO EATING.

Things that are announced in the faculty’s program of proposed changes usually have a way of happening in the dim and distant future. And so, when the faculty let it be known that it advocated a public mess hall, very little attention was aroused. Perhaps a few of the students felt a vague feeling of regret that possibly their children or grandchildren would be affected by this proposal, but that was all. Now, however, there is a rumor going the rounds to the effect that when we come back next fall we shall find one of the boarding houses enlarged to serve as a temporary mess hall until the permanent one can be erected—and that puts an entirely different face upon the matter.

Open Forum

student body that added much to the pleasure of Field Day. It is a custom at several girls’ colleges in the South to pay a yearly visit to the campus of a neighboring brother institution, and as this plan has always worked most excellently wherever tried, we would advocate most earnestly that hereafter no Field Day be celebrated without the presence of our sisters from Queens. It will strengthen the ties that should by all means exist between these schools and cause the formation of friendships that will work for the betterment of both student bodies. In the opinion of some, the students at Davidson do not have sufficient opportunity for the social relations with young ladies that will insure the development of the best manners and culture in young men along this one line, and we think that this is a means of alleviating this difficulty to some extent.

Our only regret is that the delegation was so small, but this did not detract from the enjoyment of the occasion. We appreciated your visit, Queens, and a cordial invitation is extended that you will not be long in coming again to our campus.Success in every sense of the word, and we take this liberty of expressing to the President of the club and his faithful assistants the thanks of the students for giving us this treat. The spirit of the meeting was that which is always characteristic of any gathering of Davidson men, for signs of good fellowship, athletic enthusiasm, and loyalty to the old Red and Black were quite in evidence. It is yet too early to predict the good results that will be forthcoming from this banquet, but we are confident that they will be manifold, the effect of which will be the progress of our institution by leaps and bounds.

No one who attended the banquet could possibly have left without feeling that a new relation from now on would exist between the faculty and students. Every member of the faculty had his heart and soul in the occasion, and they gave evidence of the fact that they have the interest of the student body and college at heart. It behooves us, therefore, that we consider carefully and well before we vent our maledictions upon the heads of our instructors, for given the chance, they will meet us halfway.

But the best has not yet been told. The speeches of the evening teemed with the spirit of loyalty and honor that has always made our college an outstanding one, and it was gratifying to see that the present student body is not inferior to those of the past, as shown by the fact that every man pledged himself to put the loyalty and honor of his school high upon a pedestal which will be for him his continual goal both while in college and for after life.

The adoption of the revised Student Self Government Constitution marks a new milepost in the advancement of Davidson. The history of our school shows no failures in what its student body has attempted, and this one cannot allow this disgrace to fall upon it. The mark set is a high one, for we realize that many defects in our Honor System must be eradicated. It is a big job, but it can and must be done, otherwise we will be traitors to our traditions and to our school. Remember, a BETTER DAVIDSON is our goal, and to accomplish this every man must play his part and do his duty as can only become a Davidson student.

LONG LIVE THE QUEENS!

Last week witnessed the occurrence of two new and unusual events on the Hill which it is earnestly hoped will be made permanent customs of this institution. The first one, the Greater Davidson Club Banquet, has already been mentioned; the second was the presence on the campus of a delegation from the Queens College.

Who wants the change, anyway?

Marcus Porcius.

“CAMPUSISMS.”

Prof. J. L. Douglas paid a hurried visit to Charlotte Friday evening. Many men took advantage of the half-holiday Saturday to visit Charlotte; to call the roll: Matthews, C. J.; Howell, J. D.; Cavanaugh, J. A.; Burgess, S. A.; McArn, A. D.; Cornelson, G. H.; Farmer, G. D., and Hamrick, R. E.

The Socks and Buskin is the name of a dramatic club recently organized at Centre College. They will give one or two musical comedies during the spring and a play at Commencement.—Centre College Cento.

University of Kentucky.

An interesting investigation is being conducted at Kentucky State. From a questionnaire sent out by a Faculty Committee, it was found that 63 percent of the students were earning at least a part of their expense money during their college course and that 2 percent were earning enough to pay their entire expenses.—Kentucky Kernel.

“When you face your shadow you have your back to the sun. Turn around to the sun and your shadow will disappear.”

Harvard.

Harvard has replaced the “literary society” by discussion groups. It is thought that these will reach a larger number of students, have a greater range of interests, and be, in short, more practical and beneficial than the former societies. Ten groups have been formed, each under the leadership of a professor, and students were requested to enroll under that professor whose subject interested him most. An undergraduate secretary was appointed for each group, and is to act as general executive and to relieve the leader of details. The meetings are under the spell of WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved. The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in sweet and mellow. It will not crack or burn through. The WDC Triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask any good dealer.

If you miss this wonderful photodrama you will regret it but once! And that will be all the time. Note the date April 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th.

NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, clergymen, by successful men and women the world over. ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN? The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer. 400,000 Vocabulary Terms, 2700 Pages, 6000 Illustrations, Colored Plates, 30,000 Geographical Subjects, 12,000 Biographical Entries, Regular and India-Paper Editions. Write for specimen pages, illustrations, etc., free, a set of Pocket Maps if you name this paper.