4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920. FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

MATTERS OF REGRET.

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Win or lose, the old pep for which Davidson is so famous is always in evidence. Those who were afraid that the college was losing some of its old spirit should have been with the student body when they welcomed the team back from the Tech game and they pushed them on to victory in the Wake Forest game last Saturday. Just let that person once hear the band start playing "Old Davidson" and see that bunch of five hundred men rise as one man and with uncovered heads sing that song that is so dear to the heart of every Davidson man, and he will forget that he doubted that the PEP was gone from the bunch of Davidson men.

And yet there were two things at the game Saturday that those who hold the interests of the college nearest to heart were sorry to see. The first one was done by those who hadn't been here long enough to know that what they were doing is tabooed by a Davidson crowd, and that was yelling when the opponents were penalized, and that grumbling and howling at the decision of the referee. Davidson has always been noted for the fair and gentlemanly way in which they treated their opponents and the way in which they accepted the decision of the referee. You Fresh, who forgot this last Saturday, cut it out, don't forget.

The other thing was something far more serious, it was the language used in one of the yells. Now to some this may seem a very small thing, but to those who will think a moment it will present a more serious phase. The yell referred to was the one in which "hell" was given to "the whole team." Now in some colleges and universities this is looked for and expected, but it came as a shock to hear a bunch of Davidson men give such a yell. It doesn't do a bit of good and a lot of harm. It doesn't make a man feel any better to be called a fellow, if it does, something is wrong with him. And it doesn't make you feel that you are back in your home. You are expected to be a gentleman on this campus just as much as you are in your home. You fellows who hollered the words of that yell, think it over and see if you don't think it would do the college a lot of good and avoid a lot of harm.

HAS SHE AWAKENED?

Saturday was a glorious day for the wearers of the Red and Black. It has long been a matter of conjecture with us just why it was that Charlotte's neighboring institution could never get the cordial welcome that so many towns exhibit toward colleges located near them. We hope that a new spirit will from now on exist between the citizens of Charlotte and the students of this school. Although after the game the students gathered in the heart of the business section of the city to stage a demonstration for the hard-fought victory, thereby holding up traffic, the Charlotte Athletic Association is in a large measure responsible for this good will, as it is their avowed purpose from henceforth to see that Davidson comes into her own in the Queen City. There is no reason why the future should not be bright for better and closer relationships between those concerned. May the Charlotte Association maintain the start it has made, and they can rest assured that anything done for Davidson will not be lacking in appreciation from her student body.

EDITORIAL

Once more the Red and Black took possession of the Queen City, and made it quite plain to the people of that good town that we have the proper school spirit.

Do not be just a "drifter" upon the sea of life. Set for yourself a definite port, not letting the fickle winds of ease and comfort change your course.

No doubt the result of the Wake Forest game Saturday will make Coach Rafferty, of Washington & Lee, retract what he said about the quality of the Wildcats as compared with the Generals. While in the W. & L. game, on account of substitutes, the Wildcats were unable to make a first down, we held them to two with their regular line-up. Under such circumstances the comparison puts Davidson and Washington & Lee on a par.

WANTED: A WALK.

Every year regularly the Davidsonian comes out with the customary editorial or article protesting against the marring and defacing of the campus by the unsightly paths cut across the grass. This especially refers to the short cut route used between Rumple and the Literary Society Halls. This time, however, though there is the same cause for complaint, this is not a protest, but a plea that we make the best of it and if a path is going to be continually used there, as it is, to really construct an honest-to-goodness walk that will be a credit to the campus instead of a scar. It is no use to keep on requesting the Rumplites and other patronizers of this air-line route to the business section to refrain from walking thereon, as it is obviously shorter, more direct, and more convenient, and it is consequently going to be used, all prohibitions to the contrary. If it were not used from now on, it would be quite a while before any grass could be made to grow on its compact surface, and it would continue to be a gash across that part of the campus for many a day. Therefore since it is one of the most heavily used thoroughfares on the campus and will continue to be so for all time, why not improve its unsightly appearance and incorporate it along with the rest as a real walk with all modern additions and improvements?To be complimented: vatieede S for the treatment afforded the Davidson students. The short time of harm if you cut that out entirely. David has a fine record. The reception accorded us makes us hope that Davidson has a line record for all. The reception accorded us is clean and true. So let’s not temporarily, yet the guardians of the peace let them do and say what they pleased. This alone makes it apparent that they are glad to see the son in the world. Why a harmonious spirit should not exist between the two, and with Charlotte meeting Davidson halfway, the future looks bright.

A THOUSAND IS OUR GOAL. A custom in vogue at some institutions is to adopt a school in a foreign country, and by contributions of both money and teachers endeavor to make of it a college with similar aspirations and ideals. While Davidson has never undertaken such a plan as this, yet she is proud of the fact that one of her alumni, Mr. Wm. P. Parker, '11, is giving his life in Christian service as an instructor in mathematics at the Presbyterian College, Pyengyang, Korea, being supported entirely by the yearly contribution made by the student body for this purpose. Although at times it seems that the call for money at college is endless, it has always been a matter of pride that this appeal has been supported wholeheartedly by the students. Realizing to the extent a missionary is handicapped by the smallness of his salary, the manager of the Parker Campaign Fund this year has set the goal of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS. This means that each student will be called upon to give two dollars and a half as his share, payable one-half in December and March. In some instances, this will mean denying a few things, but just think of the joy and happiness this recognition of his services will bring to Mr. Parker. Is it not worth the sacrifice? Put yourself in his place and see if you would not be grateful for a similar kindness. We who are here at Davidson enjoying its advantages and opportunities are not aware of what it means to leave all to carry the message of Light to heathen lands. Surely, we can deny ourselves this much. Next Tuesday night you will have your chance. Will you make a little sacrifice in order to ensure the success of the larger sacrifice of Mr. Parker?

Assistant managers are appointed to bring greater solace. The hand I held last night was four Aces and a King. —Cheer Up.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND. Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room. For some time Captain Hearn has been on the lookout for an officer or two to add to the sergeants now supervising the work of our R.O.T.C. Davidson has very good prospects at present of obtaining an infantry lieutenant, whom the captain has picked as a desirable man; and President Martin has been able to get two senators to aid him in influencing the war department to give us the lieutenant. Sergeant Champs’ enlistment period will soon expire, however, and he now intends to leave. Even with the services of the new lieutenant, this loss will keep the number of Captain Hearn’s assistants the same. To meet this situation, another sergeant has been picked, a man who has formerly served under the captain and whose good qualities are well-known to him; and the machinery of the government has been put in motion to get him at Davidson also. The addition of these two men to our R.O.T.C. will put new life and interest into the work and help greatly the efficiency of the corps.

The University of Alabama has inaugurated a new method of electing managers. Under this method, the manager of each team shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the particular team. The manager and the captain are elected at the same time and later approved by the faculty committee on athletics. In Washington and Lee's Ring-Tum-Phi, we read the following about the W. & L.-Wake Forest game: “Showing a complete reversal of form over their ragged game with Davidson last week, the Generals administered a thorough beating to Wake Forest, 27-0, Saturday on Wilson Field.” Now really, was this such a complete reversal of form?

Simmons College is to have Student Self-Government in the very near future if the efforts being put forth there are to be an index. The proposed constitution, which has been adopted unanimously by the senior class, is modeled closely after similar constitutions of other schools of the state. Very little opposition to it has been encountered. Special committees have been appointed to look after the arrangement of student government in the various dormitories.

$1,000 FOR PARKER FUND. CHARLES RAY IN “HOMER COMES HOME” Charles Ray entertained the student body and community in his little town classic, “Homer Comes Home,” at the “Y” movies Friday night. Homer, who was a young man of many ideas, was kicked from one job to another and finally out of town because he tried to spring his ideas at the wrong time. Hitting off to the city, he lands in the office of a wealthy manufacturer. After two years of hard work and saving, he hits upon the idea of starting a branch factory in his hometown. His boss thinks it a joke and offers Homer a vacation to see what he can do with his idea. Homer arranges to arrive at his home on the special which stops only for important personages. From the time he steps off the special into the crowd of admiring townsmen, he carries on the bluff, winning the hearts of his former employer, future father-in-law, and his townsmen. On the final day when his last dollar is gone, he wins their interest in his new idea and gets them to subscribe to the new factory. An interesting love story is woven into the plot and the villain who tries to thwart all his plans is finally overcome and Homer wins his lady along with his big idea.

“Have you a warning signal on the front of your car?” “Yes; I have a little round thing that says ‘Dodge Brothers.’”—Ex.

Methought my heart would break with joy. It is folly to refuse to recognize its existence just because it is not included in the architectural designs of the campus in the office. It is there and needs attention badly. Even to the casual visitor riding through the grounds, it is a prominent and ugly feature and its transformation into a good gravel walk is the immediate need for a more beautiful campus. Don't fail to knock the college—it needs knocking for you are a part of it.

Son—"Why do people say dame gossip?” Father—“Because they are too polite to leave off the ‘d’.”—Tattler.

Jack—Girls are prettier than men. Jean—Why—naturally. Jack—No; artificially.—Widow.

Danger! Dodge! Last night I held a little hand. So dainty and so neat; $1,000 FOR PARKER FUND. The High School and two graded classrooms have been equipped with new single desks which is a great improvement over the double desks. Most men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction, and economy in a good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a good shape at your nearest dealer’s, at your price. Wm. DEMUTH & CO. NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.