THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920.

A FULL LINE OF PARKER'S "LUCKY CURVE" FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.
The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.
Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

BERWICK — 2% in.
GORDON — 2% in.
ARROW COLLARS curve cut to fit shoulders perfectly.
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC. Makers

Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS
E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
621 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni
W. C. Bailey, ex-’11, is assistant cashier of the Bailey Bank, Clinton, S.C.
Rev. Z. V. Roberson, '14, of Rockingham, N.C., has been called to the pastorate of the church at Mt. Airy.
This pastorate was made vacant by the removal of Rev. T. C. Bales to Portsmouth, Va.
In the field of South Carolina politics, W. E. Stevenson, of Cheraw, candidate for re-election to Congress, has no opposition
so far. It is known that several gentlemen are most anxious to succeed him.
W. S. Overton, '18, was on the Hill a few days last week.
W. T. Allen, ex-’20, is with the Du Pont Engineering Co., Mich.
Rev. Harold M. Shields, '11, of Norfolk, Va., a brother of “Bess” Shields, '20, is ill with double pneumonia, following
influenza.
Rev. F. Arthur Barnes, '95, of Schoolfield, Virginia, with Mrs. Barnes, mother and sister, came to Davidson for the weekend
because of the illness of his mother.

A LITTLE LIGHT ON OUR A. E. F. STUDENTS
T. A. Lacy.
T. A. Lacy served during the war as a private in the 113th Field Artillery, Battery F, which is better
known as the Piedmont Battery. Enlisting on July 16, 1917, Lacy was sent to Camp Sevier, Greenville, S.C., where he
was in training from September 16, 1917, until May 20, 1918. Leaving here the battery went to Brooklyn, N.Y., from
whence it embarked on May 25. Landing at Liverpool on June 7, and crossing through middle England by rail, a
stop being made at Winchester, the battery arrived at Southampton on June 11. The channel was crossed that night and
the following morning they landed at Le Havre. The battery camped at Camp De Coetquidan, Brittany, an old artillery camp
of Napoleon, until August 23. Here training was given in the use of the French 75s, which were used throughout
the war. After receiving training here the battery moved to Toul and into the front on the St. Mihiel salient.
Lacy was engaged here most of the time in hauling ammunition to the front preparatory to the drive of September
12. On that date the Piedmont Battery put over part of the barrage.

M. A. Stough, ex-'16, is traveling for the Dupont Dye Company, with headquarters at the Park Hotel, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Prof. C. H. Weatherby is Superintendent of the School at Biscoe, N.C.
John R. McQueen, ex-’97, is seriously ill at his home at Lakeview, N.C. Mr. McQueen has been for several years
business manager of Pinehurst, N.C., North Carolina’s most noted winter resort. His resignation was made necessary on account of his
ill-health. He is one of Davidson's most influential alumni.

DR. RICHARDS EARNEST IN PREACHING AND TEACHING
Now Professor in His Alma Mater.
Charles Malone Richards was born at Liberty Hill, S.C., in 1871. He was prepared for college in the public school
at that place, and entered Davidson in 1888. He graduated from Davidson in 1892, being third honor man of the
class and delivering the philosophical oration. After three years at Columbia (S.C.) Seminary, one other year was spent there in
teaching Greek and Hebrew. Then followed a pastorate of five years at Mechanicsville, S.C., and one of eight years at
Statesville, N.C. In 1907 Davidson College conferred the degree of Doctor of Divinity. Dr. Richards became pastor of the “Church
on the Corner” at Davidson in 1909. Four years ago he became Professor of Church History and Government in the
college. Also, for two years he has been assisting in the English course. Dr. Richards is recognized by students and
townspeople alike as belonging to the old school of Presbyterians, the kind that built up the Presbyterian Church and made
it the powerful influence it has been in the life of the people not only of America, but of other
lands as well. In addition to his work in building up the college, probably no one man in Davidson has
had more to do with molding its life and ideals. We are all glad that we can have such a
safe guide as Dr. Richards; glad to have him to lift up before us from Sabbath to Sabbath the ideals
of Christianity that made our fathers great; and glad to have his lucid and earnest explanations of Church.History and Bible
truths in class and out. Mr. Williamson has bought the house on North Main Street formerly occupied by Mr. Andrews.
He does not intend to move into it soon so has rented it out.

Leaving this sector on the 14th of September, he was next stationed in the Meuse-Argonne sector, arriving there on September
24. Here also the Piedmont Battery was partly responsible for opening this drive. The battery occupied three positions on this
sector. Leaving here about October 3, the Piedmont Battery moved to the Troyon sector, which was part of the old
St. Mihiel salient. In the Troyon sector, Lacy was transferred to the observation post of the Second Battalion, which overlooked
the plain of the Woevre, remaining here until the armistice was signed. About December 13, Lacy, again in the Piedmont
Battery, started on a hike through Luxemburg as a part of the second army. Here, he spent Christmas at the
town of Colmarburg, just north of the city of Luxemburg. Leaving there on January 5, 1919, they returned to Le
Mans, where they were re-equipped and started for home from St. Nazaire on March 3. Landing at Newport News on
March 17, the battery went to Raleigh, where the regiment paraded on March 24. From here Lacy went to Camp
Jackson and was there discharged from the service on March 29.

C. Hunter, '20. One cannot wander far through the records of Davidson's service men before noticing that of Coyt Hunter,
class of 1920. Hunter left the Junior class at Davidson on March 4, 1918, arriving at Camp Jackson on the
7th. After a brief period of training there, his outfit was moved to Camp Merritt, at Hoboken, N. J., where
they embarked for France on May 22, 1918. The outfit, the First Corps, Artillery Park, was then sent on to
a motor school for several weeks, after which training they were placed in active service on the lines when the
Germans made their drive toward Paris. The corps took part in the following engagements: Champagne-Marne defensive, July 15-18; Aisne-Marne offensive,
July 18-August 6; Chateau-Thierry sector, August 6-August 18; Oise-Aisne offensive, August 18-September 10; Verdun sector, September 12-September 26; Meuse-Argonne offensive,
September 26-November 11. With the army of occupation through Belgium and Luxemburg, reaching Coblenz, Germany, on December 14, 1918. On
July 14, 1919, the outfit was sent to Brest and then on to the States, landing at Newport News on
August 3, 1919. After receiving his discharge on August 10, Hunter spent a few days at home and then re-entered
Davidson in September.

DEATH OF W. C. BAILEY, '11. Word was received here last week of the death of William Cyrus Bailey, '11,
at Clinton, S. C., on Sunday morning, February 8, 1920. Mr. Bailey was ill for a week or so with
influenza, and got up too soon; this caused a relapse, and serious complications developed which resulted in his death. He
married Miss Fleming, of Augusta, Ga., in 1916, and leaves two children. He was in business in Clinton, S. C.,
and was living with his parents.

VOWS. Mable Stamper, N. C. College. As I sat in meditation In the silence of the night, And gazed at
Heaven illumined With its myriad points of light, All my soul went surging upward Through the portals, to the Throne
While the midnight stars together Sang “God loves: you are His own.” Then my soul in wonder questioned At the
barrenness of earth, Pondered long upon the knowledge That men lacked of things of worth Unto me a voice spoke,
softly, “Who will tell the world? thou?” And alone there in the darkness Unto God I vowed a vow.

Mr. Hill has handed in his resignation to the college to take effect April 1, 1920. He has bought a
house on the other side of the railroad between Mr. Holler and Mr. Gamble.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners Charlotte, N. C. Agency 18 Watts

The U. S. Government is now putting special emphasis on the vocational branches in the army. The co-operation of the
various college units is desired. If you know anyone who might enter one of these branches of service, Colonel Mueller
will be glad to give you information concerning these.

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent Your
business is solicited John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. J. S. Beard, Assistant Cashier

Knox and Barnette Entire New Line of General Merchandise Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings. A New Line of Schloss Bros.
Clothing STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholts, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

TAILORS DRY CLEANING MURRAY PRESSING ALTERING COMPANY In front of Western Union Telegraph Co. 31 S. TRYON ST. Phone 429
and a man will come over with the latest styles and patterns for college men on the market. We make
a specialty of young men’s garments.

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought
and Sold
