THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL................................................. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS........................................... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND........................................ Assistant Managing Editor
J. PRICE....................................................... Assignment Editor
J. R. DOUBLES............................................. Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS........................................ Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL........................................ Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR.................................. Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP............................................. Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.......................................... Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL.................................................... Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR....................................... Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE....................................... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
M. GILMER
A. C. SUMMERS

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN............................................. Business Manager
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY................................................. Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG.................................................. Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL.................................................. Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Now that the days have become warm and balmy do not try to hide your laziness under the old excuse of “spring fever.” A good panacea for this malady is the old saying, “If you must kill time, why not try working it to death.”

It seems that every week has its wonders. The past one witnessed the breaking of our “athletic hoodoo” by the decisive defeats of N. C. State and Wake Forest. May this strange being never visit us again. Davidson should be indeed glad that she has a coach of “Dutch” Hengeveld’s type. His players consider him ideal in every respect, and are anxious to give him the best they have at all times. May he lead the baseball team through a successful season this spring.

We are glad to learn of the resurrection of the Glee Club, for there is something wrong when Davidson cannot turn out a first-rate musical organization of this kind. It is to be hoped that the good work of its leaders will keep up as it is almost necessary that we be represented in this phase of college activity.

That it pays to keep training was amply demonstrated in the track meet of last Friday. It is hardly possible for a man to come to Davidson or any other school, for that matter, and win for himself the highest athletic honor unless he disciplines himself in order to keep physically fit, yet there are always men who look at it in a different light. Furthermore, a man cannot give his best to his school unless he does keep training, and who is there on our campus who does not place Davidson first. We hope that the men on our various teams will soon awake to this fact, and they will be willing to deny themselves a few things in order that the glory and reputation of the prowess of the Red and Black athletic teams shall receive a powerful impetus at their hands.

As no doubt our readers have gained all the essential information concerning Blue Ridge from the articles contained in this issue, it will be useless to go into any elaborate explanation as to what this place is and for what it stands. Yet we do not feel like letting this opportunity pass without putting in a good word for this now famous and well-known Conference, and urging upon the students of this institution that they plan their summer so as to contain the ten days of June devoted to this gathering of Southern college men. That your time will be well spent offers no ground for argument. Every man who ever attended one of the Blue Ridge Conferences left with the feeling that he had a new lease on life, that his vision was broadened, and that his purpose to live a life of consecrated service strengthened many times over. There are men in this student body who can attest to this fact, so what better proof is needed. Blue Ridge is the place where you meet the finest and best manhood in the South; it is the place that offers that strong, virile, active religion that is so needed in the life of our country today; it is the place where the ideals of a man cannot but be elevated, and best of all, it is the place where so many men find and dedicate themselves to lives of Christian service. In view of all these advantages and benefits which Blue Ridge has to offer, can any man here at Davidson afford to neglect this Conference if he can possibly help it.

We have always been fortunate in having a splendid representation at Blue Ridge composed of men who have made the name of Davidson a prominent and honored one in the various activities of this Conference, and this year cannot be otherwise. The other colleges in this State are preparing to send extremely large delegations and our institution cannot and must not fall down on this particular job. And so again we would urge upon every student that he make his decision now to go to Blue Ridge this summer, if possible, in order that he may not only be benefited personally, but so that he can bring back something with him next fall that will help foster and develop the spirit of our campus of which we are so proud.

MORE ABOUT FIRE.

A week ago Sunday, when Governor Bickett was speaking in Shearer Chapel, just at the most interesting point, some of those who should have been there to hear him yelled “Fire!” just because there were no lights in the dormitories. It seems to me that we are getting a little careless with our yells of “Fire!” The custom is ingrained in the student body, and I don’t suppose it will ever be broken, though it is directly contrary to the laws of North Carolina; but we should, if we yell it at all, confine our “Fire!” to occasions when “fire” is to be seen. On the occasion mentioned above, it caused quite a commotion in the rear of the hall, several citizens of Davidson getting up and hastily leaving, because they thought that there might be a real fire. Davidson is entirely unprotected, and should there be a fire, all the aid which can be counted uponis that which the students wish to render in carrying out household goods. So every time “Fire!” is heard, it brings quite a bit of uneasiness into the minds of the householders of the town. We don’t think of that, for it would not take a minute for us to run up to our rooms and drag out a trunk, but we should be considerate of those who have the responsibility of a home. It does no good at all to yell the word on any and all occasions of excitement, and it does a great deal of harm, so let us be careful the next time, and “think before we holler.”

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

NEED OF DRAINAGE ON THE CAMPUS

For the last two or three years the walks on Davidson campus have been going from bad to worse in a number of ways. While the way paths are being made across the grass is being fought by the college and right-thinking students in a general way, though not vigorously, the greater evil and to some extent the cause of the above-mentioned habit is not being mentioned and considered. This fact, the way that after every rain water stands and mud is gathered in all the walks, affects us all and every day is marring the beauty and symmetry of our campus. For to avoid walking in this mud and water, we all step on the grass just outside. This has been gradually worn down until the walks are now a foot or more wider on each side with all the grass near worn to an ugly condition. If the walks were properly graded and drains put in to carry off the water they could then be made to serve the purpose they were put there for, even if it does rain, we could cross the campus, our shoes would fare better, and cutting short paths would be discouraged with so much better walks to use.

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

SPEAKING ON THE CAMPUS.

It has been a custom for everyone to speak on the campus. It seems as if this has been neglected by some of the fellows and especially the Freshmen. Let's all try to speak when we pass. It won't hurt you to say “Gentlemen,” “Fellows,” or something of the sort when you pass on the campus. Let’s all keep up the good work of “Old Davidson” and see if we can’t have a more democratic student body.

X. Y. Z.

Lines by Jack Farmer.

“Fergittin’ Things”

“Ef people jest lived ever’ day
Like they talk on Sunday,
But like the fearful lobster
They jest “back up” p’rhaps by Monday.
They heer the parson preech and bawl
En loud expound ‘is text, sir,
En then th’ hull thing, strange to say,
They fergit by the very next day.”

—The Orange and Blue, Carson Newman College.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Washington & Lee to Debate Universal Military Training in Tri Debate.

The triangular debate between Washington & Lee, Johns Hopkins, and University of North Carolina, is to be on the subject: “Resolved, That a system of universal military training for young men should be adopted by the United States.” Davidson is debating this same subject with Mercer University, Randolph-Macon College, and Dickinson College.

Mississippi to Get Appropriation.

The Senate of Mississippi by the close margin of one vote has passed an appropriation bill by the terms of which the University of Mississippi will receive approximately $700,000 in addition to something over $300,000 in the form of a support fund.—The Mississippian.

Discipline at M. I. T.

Discipline is a thing which most American college students lack to an alarming degree and there is no doubt that a certain amount of army drill with real officers such as we have here at Technology is the very best remedy for the trouble.—The Tech, Mass. Institute of Technology.

Vanderbilt Dons Overalls.

The staff of the Vanderbilt Hustler has donned overalls and have founded the Vanderbilt chapter of the United Overall Wearers of these free United States.—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

“A Little More Than Kin.”

Last year I asked my best girl to become my wife, and she said, “No!” But I got even with the girl. I married her mother. Then my father married the girl. Now I don’t know what I am. When I married the girl’s mother the girl became my daughter, and when father married my daughter she was my mother. Who in the dickens am I? My mother’s mother (which is my wife) must be my grandmother, and I being my grandmother’s husband, I am my own grandfather.—Life.

Before Exams.

O Lord of Hosts, be with us yet
Lest we forget, lest we forget.
The Lord of hosts, was with us not,
For we forgot, for we forgot.
—The Highland Echo.

Spring, Oh, Beautiful Spring.

The days are growing long,
Whiskers are growing, too,
The grass is getting green again,
And the dollars are getting few.
—The Crimson-White.

Just You.

Sometimes dismay beclouds the way,
It seems all hope is gone;
While stars, all bright, fade out of sight
And yet no glimpse of dawn.
’Tis then I hear a voice so dear,
And life is fair of hue;
The sun’s bright light dispels the night,
Because of you, just you.
—The Hornet.

Extracts From Letters Received by War Department.

Extracts from letters actually received and filed by the war department at Washington:

“I ain’t got no book larning and I ain’t writen for no inflamation.”
“She is staying at a dissipated house.”
“Just a line to let you know that I am the widow and four children.”
“Previous to his departure we was married by a justice of piece.”
“He was inducted into the surface.”
“I have a four months old baby and he is my only support.”
“As I need his assistance to keep me enclosed.”
“Caring to my condition which I haven’t walked in three months with a broken leg which is number 75.”
“Kind Sir or She?”
“I enclose lovingly yours.”
“I am left with a child 7 months old and is a baby and can’t work.”
“I am his wife and only air.”
“You asked me for my allotment number. I have seven boys and six girls.”
“Please return my marriage certificate. Baby ain’t eaten anything for three days.”
“Both sides of our parents are old and poor.”
“My bill has been in charge of a spitton (platoon?). Do I get any more pay?”

Extract from a boy’s letter: “I am sitting at Y. M. C. A. writing with the piano playing in my uniform.”—Ex.

She—Can you drive a car with one hand?
He—No, but I can stop.
—Ga. Tech-Technique.

If you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke your favorite tobacco. Then you'll know what a real French briar is, and what the Demuth seasoning will do to make it a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco. Then you'll break in sweet and mellow. Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then pick yours.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES