Keep it Up, Wildcats
THEDAVI_ /, SONIAN
FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON
Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1920.

MISS ADELE CROSS HONORED AS FIELD DAY QUEEN BY CAPT. MURRAY

The good old days when knights were brave and chivalrous and when the fair lady was crowned Queen of The Tournament by the successful Knight, were revived on Sprunt Field last Saturday afternoon. A large body of fair dames from Queens College in Charlotte were present to witness the contest between Davidson athletes for the honor of selecting the Queen of The Field Day. The individual winning the greatest number of points in the meet was rewarded by this privilege. This honor fell to Har- ry Murrey who made eighteen points, and selected a very pretty and charming Queen in the person of Miss Adele Cross, of Queens College. Miss Cross was supposed to award the ribbons to the victors, but due to the late ending of the meet this feature was omitted.

Wildcats Open Season With Two Victories
Oak Ridge Falls Before Benders

The Greater Davidson Club Banquet, held in the Alumni Gymnasium Thursday night, was an epoch-making event in the career of every Davidson student, and a few of her illustrious alumni who returned for this glorious occasion. Promptly at 7 o'clock the student body filed into the gym where scores of tables creaked beneath an appetizing repast. After grace had been said by Dr. J. M. Richards, eating was in order, and the silence which fell over the vast assembly proclaimed louder than words the enthusiasm of the men as they went to work.

Mr. Miles was the able toastmaster of the banquet. His remarks in introducing the several speakers were witty and in keeping with the jovial spirit of the occasion. The first speaker of the evening was Dr. Archibald Currie. In a few well-chosen remarks Dr. Currie spoke upon the subject of “Loyalty,” as manifested in the Greater Davidson Club. He emphasized how the spirit of Davidson clings to her men who have gone out. “Everyone admits Davidson’s spirit is a superior spirit. It makes the men who are here and the men who have gone out like members of a big family in this world. Davidson spirit is undying loyalty to this old college!” declared Mr. Moore. A rousing “skyrocket” was given for Mr. Moore, and then the band furnished entertainment.

Dr. J. M. McConnell was then introduced, and opened his remarks with: “I had expected to be over near Dr. Lingle and Mr. Spence tonight and be Hooverized.” Hooverite and McAdooite took up the challenge and vied with each other in making himself heard. Then Dr. McConnell continued: “This Greater Davidson Club is a result of the war. It stands for, first, more democracy; second, progressiveness; and third, achievement.

Carrie and Miley—Heavy Hitting Features Both Contests

The local baseball season was ushered in with a rush last week when the Wildcats took a brace of games from the Oak Ridge nine. The scores of the contests were 12 to 5, and 5 to 4. Both teams put up a good exhibition of the national pastime and although many errors were committed, heavy hitting featured the play.

In the opening game Cox for Oak Ridge, and Currie for Davidson were the opposing twirlers. The former pitched a good brand of ball in the opening innings but the strain began to tell and in the sixth stanza the Wildcats got on to his delivery for a total of four runs. Five more were added in the eighth when the big southpaw got wild and hit a couple. This was followed by an avalanche of hits and poor judgment on the part of his teammates piled up the victor’s score.

In the very first inning the prep school lads got on to Currie’s delivery before the big boy had gotten warmed up and before their attack was stemmed three runs had been sent across. “Buck” settled down then and had the opposing batters eating out of his hand the remainder of the route. The hitting of Wrenn featured for the winners, the hefty backstop getting three singles in five attempts. The hitting of Morris for the losers stood out prominent for the Oak Ridge lads, the outfielder getting two triples in three times at bat.

With Miley in the box in the second game and his teammates spotting him four runs in the first inning, the second game was a Wildcat victory from the start. The local lads batted around on Morris’ delivery in this inning and three hits, a walk and a hit batsman coupled with errors on the part of Oak Ridge, netted them a quartet of runs. Richardson who replaced Morris on the mound for Oak Ridge pitched a fine brand of ball and had the Red and Black batters puzzled during the remainder of the game. Only in the eighth did the locals score and but for a couple of bonehead plays would not have done this. The center fielder got a single and a triple out of four attempts.

(Continued on page 2)

Captain Murrey, the Highest Individual Scorer in the Track Events of Saturday, and the Field Day Queen, Miss Adele Cross, of Queens College.

Bob Miles Resigns as Secretary

Has Done a Great Work on the Campus—Loss Will be Keenly Felt

It was with very great regret that the students of Davidson learned that “Bob” Miles, the secretary of the college “Y,” will not be with us next year. Mr. Miles has accepted the call to be assistant pastor to Rev. Charles Myers, of the First Presbyterian Church, Greensboro, N. C. He will go to fill this position June 1, immediately after the close of the present session. He is an old Davidson man, having belonged to the class of '11. He was popular among his fellow students while here, and everyone learned to love him because of his cheery smile and friendly disposition. After finishing at Davidson he went to the Seminary, where he became popular because of his winning personality. He graduated from the Seminary in 1917. His work has been a great success here, he having worked diligently among us since December, 1918. He is universally popular, and it wasIt is with great pleasure that we first met and learned to admire him. Mrs. Miles is equally popular in the community, where she has been a leader in church, social, and educational work. It is with the deepest sorrow that we give Mr. Miles and his wife up. But we congratulate him on his new position and wish him the best of luck. And we sincerely hope that he will come back to see us often.

You can say all you want to, but besides, the ump in Thursday’s game had eyes in the back of his head when he saw “Cop” leaving third for home while facing towards right field. Knocking in two runs was a prominent factor in the Wild-Track Cup Goes to Class of ’21. Breaks Record on 440.

On Saturday afternoon, one of the best class track meets ever held at Davidson was run off. It can be considered a success from more than one point of view, because the meet was a fast, well-run affair, and because there were so many fair visitors to cheer on their favorites. The Juniors won the meet, scoring 39 points, with the Freshmen in second place, with a total of 26 points, while the members of the class of 1920 amassed only four points. This is the second year that the class of 1921 has held the interclass track championship, and the credit for this goes to the Sophomores, who rolled up 21 points.

Dr. Reed then spread joy with some snappy anecdotes—which he saw in the Saturday Evening Post, and “because they had not been published in the Presbyterian Standard, had not appeared in The Davidsonian.” The next speaker was Dr. Harding, and in his inimitable way, he entertained the club and its guests for a few minutes. To Dr. J. L. Douglas had been assigned the task of telling a joke. The roar of mirth which arose when he sat down attested to his unusual ability in this line.

Our band then burst into the stirring strains of “O, Davidson!” and the song was taken up by everyone. The gym rocked and rang as the chorus of five hundred voices opened up. Messrs. Nesbit and Cathey, virtuosos on the guitar and mouth harp, made the crowd merry with a regular B. F. Keith Vaudeville number for the next few moments.

Dr. Martin spoke upon “A Better as Well as a Bigger Davidson.” He won his audience with several clever jokes and then turned to the serious side of his subject. “We must not let the bigness of the plan,” he said, “interfere with the greatness of the plan. This is made possible by the success of the QUY.UOU campaign in North Carolina.” Tumultuous applause greeted this statement, and pandemonium reigned supreme for a while. When peace was restored, Dr. Martin continued, “I appeal to every man here to pledge himself to these things right now.” The pledge was heartily given by the students, and Dr. Martin graciously acknowledged it and pledged himself to the same principles for a better Davidson.

Then after another band number, Dr. John Peter Monroe, of Charlotte, was introduced and began to speak on “Athletics.” This noted Davidson alumnus has long been connected with and interested in the athletic side of Davidson’s life, and on Thursday night he kept his audience in an uproar with tales of his adventures as a referee when he was in college here. “Davidson,” said Dr. Monroe, “puts out the best teams for a college of its size in the South.” The band played again, and then Coach Miles introduced the popular commander of Davidson's R. O. T. C., Captain Mueller. The captain, in the course of his talk, announced that the Freshmen would have only one class recitation a week in his department.

Dr. Lingle then carried on the light moments begun by Nesbit and Cathey, and after the band number following his remarks, Dr. Martin was introduced. Several college records were either broken or equaled. In the 440-yard dash, Brice broke the record, traveling the distance in 50.6 seconds, while the college record was 52.8 seconds. “Hack” Murray equaled his record of 22.6 seconds, which he made last year in the 220-yard dash. He also came within one-fifth of a second of the record for the 100-yard dash, running it in 10 seconds flat. The mile run was an interesting event, featured by the sprint of Packer on the last lap, when he passed the whole field and crossed the line, winning easily.

The highest individual scorer of the meet was Murray, who took three firsts and one second place, giving him a total of 18 points to his credit. Brice was second with 14 points to his credit, winning two first places and two second places. Miss Dell Cross was picked as the winner of the event by the highest score.

“A Word About the Honor System” was the subject of Professor Wood’s remarks, and as he has come to us from an institution where the honor system has worked out so successfully, his words have added value. “The Honor System,” said Professor Wood, “is based first, on the cooperation of faculty and student body—a friendship between the two.”

* * * * CALENDAR.

Thursday, Apr. 1—Davidsonians arrive. Baseball game with Catawba College, 3:30 p.m.
Friday, Apr. 2—Leaders’ Bible Class, 7:15 p.m.
Saturday, Apr. 3—Movies, 7:00 p.m. Marguerite Clark, in “Still Waters.” Literary Societies, 6:45 p.m.
Sunday, Apr. 4—Bible Classes, 10 a.m. “Y” Service, 6:15 p.m.
Monday, Apr. 5—Eu. Society, 6:45 p.m.
Tuesday, Apr. 6—Bible Classes, 7:00 p.m.

REMEMBER YOUR PLEDGE TO SUPPORT THE HONOR SYSTEM