N Auburn? Davidson? THEDAV,. Final Figures of Campaign $12,118.00 FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C.,
JANUARY 29, 1920. No. 17

SIX DAYS OF PLEASURE AWAIT GLEE CLUB

The final result of the campaign among the students stands at $12,118, over 20 per cent above the allotment. With
the entire student body behind it, the campaign moved steadily onward to success. That old-time “Wildcat” spirit made things move
from the very start. The inter-dormitory race laurel is proudly held by Watts. Although Watts did not give the largest
amount, the Watt-ites left their assigned portion far to the rear. The final figures from the dormitory teams are as
follows:

Georgia ---------------- $2,708
Watts ------------------- 2,565
Chambers (North Wing) - 2,102
Rumple ------------------ 1,825
Chambers (South Wing) - 1,772
Davidson Town --------- 1,146
Total -------------------- $12,118

Class Football to be Resumed---Expected to Prove Interesting

Davidson can stand from under for some stupendous interest to fall on the Hill, Friday, February 6, 1920, when the
first game of class football played here since 1917 is pulled off between the Sophomore and the Juniors. The managers
of the four teams report that the classes are showing great interest in their teams, and the indications are for
a series of hard-fought games while the season lasts. Owing to the bad weather none of the teams have been
able to practice, but in a few days all will be out working hard to get in shape for the
coming series that will decide the class football champions. The prospects are strong for the Fresh and Soph teams, but
don't think the Seniors and Juniors are not running strong. The Freshs have a strong backfield and heavy line, while
the line of the Soph is strong, their backfield is inclined to be lacking in strength. A few afternoons of
practice will doubtless bring the Sophs’ backfield up. The Juniors are planning to make a sweeping revenge on the Sophomores
for their defeat in basketball through this class football series. The Seniors are planning to lift their reputation by leaps
and bounds in the coming games, and are going to fight and fight hard to do it. With these prospects,
the class football series for the championship opens Friday, February 6. The schedule of games is as follows:

Class Football Schedule:
Friday, Feb. 6—Soph-Junior.
Saturday, Feb. 7—Senior-Fresh.
Friday, Feb. 13—Senior-Junior.
Friday, Feb. 20—Junior-Fresh.
Saturday, Feb. 21—Soph-Senior.
Saturday, Feb. 28—Fresh-Soph.

The Library needs three copies of No. 10 and four copies of No. 3 of the series of The Davidsonian,
college year 1918-1919. We will be glad to pay for these issues as they are necessary to complete the files
for binding the volumes for the Library and The Davidsonian office. Any friend having back numbers will confer on us
a real favor by looking through them and sending these numbers to us.

Intercollegiate Debating Team to be Chosen Soon

The debating council at a recent meeting arranged dates and subjects for the spring contests. The subject chosen for the
intercollegiate debating contest is: “Resolved, That labor through representatives of its own choosing should have a voice in the management
of industry.” Preliminaries will be held on February 17, 1920, and finals on March 4. As none of last year's
intercollegiate debaters are back, competition this year will no doubt be keen. A bird’s-eye view of the situation reveals the
fact that there is a wealth of material on hand and every man who has any ability and talent in
debating should show that he has the true Davidson “pep” by trying for a place.

The subject chosen for the Fresh-Soph intersociety contest is: “Resolved, That all able-bodied men in the United States under 21
years of age, should be compelled to take one year of military training.” The preliminaries will be held on April
1, 1920, in each of the society halls. The finals will take place on April 20. A loving cup is
annually presented to the society winning the contest. Last year the Phi Society won the cup, but reports emanating from
the Eumenean men are to the effect that they are out for revenge this year. As both societies have been
augmented by men who have already shown their skill and power in argumentation and debating, it is safe to say
that the debate will be the most hotly contested in years. A handsome medal is presented by each society to
the two men adjudged the best debaters.

Dr. Harding’s Condition Much Improved---No Need for Further Fear

Dr. Harding is still at the hospital in Charlotte. His condition has much improved and there is no need for
further fear. He will probably not resume college work this term.

Ten Games on 1920 Football Schedule

The 1920 gridiron schedule has just about been completed, though the final contracts have not been signed. Since the close
of the 1919 season, Dr. J. M. Douglas and ex-Manager Frank Hall have been working unceasingly and have prepared a
splendid program that will give the Wildcats a chance to spread their fame over the whole southland. They meet this
year's champions of the South, Southeast, State of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Virginia. The absence of Clemson and
V. M. I. from the schedule is the cause of some regret to those who looked forward to the day
of sweet revenge.

“O Davidson” for Sale by Shields

Speaking of the Glee Club trip! That’s the opening of a big trip: that’s just a sample of what it
will win at every concert. In the six-day trip they are going to visit some of the best institutions in
the South. You can't think of a more enjoyable way to spend that loafing hour than learning the best popular
songs. Now is the time to try out for your place on that 1920 Glee Club! Leader I. E. Shields
has been able to provide several copies of the Davidson College song “O Davidson.” See him and reserve it at
once as the first limited number can be furnished at this date.

LIVELY TIME EXPECTED JUNIOR SPEAKING

Rogers in Charge of Decorations

The plans for Junior Speaking are well under way. The faculty has informed the Junior class that it must be
ready to meet its fate on the 27th and 28th of February. At a meeting of the class Monday morning,
a committee was appointed to make plans for the decorations in chapel. Rogers is to be chairman of this committee
and promises to make the chapel a place of beauty for the awe-stricken audience.Snow and general cold weather, hot air
is beginning to flow. The whole of the Junior class has a do-or-die expression on their face when they happen
to appear on the campus. When seen, however, they are usually headed for the library, where the familiar question is
asked: “Can you tell me where I can find something to write my speech about?” An effort will be made
to have the Orchestra and Glee Club in shape for a concert of some kind and also for music during
the speaking. There will be a basketball game on the hill, probably on Saturday, so the visitors will be well
entertained during their stay. Most important of all, the president of the class stated he would see that the Junior
class got their invitations on time.

On Monday night, January 19, when the students were rejoicing over the results of their campaign, the members of the
faculty and Dr. Harding's family were in a state of great anxiety. To the student body, the next morning, the
news of Dr. Harding's illness came as a great shock, for at the movies Friday night, and at his classroom
on Saturday, he was apparently in perfect health. He was taken with a severe attack of appendicitis on Monday night,
and an immediate operation became imperative. In consequence, Dr. Brenizer took him to the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, carrying him
on the back seat of his car. The operation, promptly performed, was successful, and the anxiety of his friends in
Davidson was somewhat allayed. However, he was still in a very critical condition. News from the hospital indicates also that
he is steadily improving, and the anxiety of his friends is giving way to confidence that they will see him
back home again in a comparatively short time, although it is hardly to be hoped that he will be able
to resume his work very much before the end of the present term. Professor Reed is taking charge of his
classes in Greek; that is, taking over the greater part of his work. Strange to say, this is the exact
reverse of the situation last fall, during Professor Reed’s extended absence from the campus. Dr. Grey will meet his German
classes. Hence, in this way, the members of these classes will not lose the whole term's work.

Dr. Thornton Whaling a Visitor to Davidson Campus. On his way back from a convention in Memphis, Dr. Thornton Whaling,
President of Columbia Theological Seminary, stopped over in Davidson last Saturday. On Sunday he made several addresses, taking Dr. Richards’
place in the pulpit both morning and evening, and speaking to the students in the afternoon. Another purpose of his
visit was to see several candidates for the ministry who are going to the seminary next year. He left Monday
morning to attend a meeting of the Davidson board of trustees in Charlotte.

Vanderbilt students have adopted a $12 “Campus Tax” which is to cover athletic and publication fees. The plan met with
unanimous approval and with faculty sanction will take effect next fall. —Vanderbilt Hustler.

Dr. Whaling’s visit. The dates and locations for these games could not be satisfactorily arranged and they had to be
called off. There is a chance of a new team appearing on the list provided arrangements can be agreed upon
with the Richmond College “Spiders.” This would put “Spiders,” “Hornets” and “Yellow Jackets” on the line-up, quite a preponderance of
the insect family. The Clemson date is still open pending arrangements with the University of Georgia and the Citadel, either
of which will prove a worthy opponent for the locals. In 1917 the Citadel came to Davidson and completely upset
the dope by holding the Wildcats to a 7-7 tie. Ever since then Davidson has longed to meet them, and
if the Red and Black from Georgia cannot fill the date, it is hoped that terms can be made with
the South Carolinians. The tentative schedule, which is subject to change, follows:

Oct. 2—Davidson vs. N.C. State, at Raleigh, N.C.
Oct. 9—Davidson vs. Washington and Lee, at Lexington, Va.
Oct. 16—Davidson vs. Wake Forest, at Charlotte, N.C.
Oct. 23—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech, at Atlanta, Ga.
Oct. 30—Pending.
Nov. 6—Davidson vs. Univ. of S.C., at Davidson.
Nov. 13—Davidson vs. Univ. of N.C., at Winston-Salem, N.C.
Nov. 20—Davidson vs. Pres. Col. of S.C., at Clinton, S.C.
Nov. 25—Davidson vs. Furman, at Greenville, S.C.
*—Davidson vs. Richmond College, at Richmond, Va.

DUTCH AND SPANISH PROBLEMS DISCUSSED

The Book Lovers’ Club held its last meeting at the home of Mrs. J. M. MacConnell. A paper on “The
Reconstruction Problems of Spain and Holland” was presented by Mrs. Douglas. The outstanding feature of the discussion was the serious
educational and political condition of these European countries. The next meeting is to be with Miss Hattie Thompson, at which
time a discussion of the “Reconstruction Problems of China, Japan, and Korea,” will be led by Mrs. Arbuckle. The election
of officers for the new series is to take place in March, after which the year’s program will be announced.

Randolph-Macon and Mercer to be Debated This Spring

R.-M. to be Met at Ashland—Place of Mercer Debate Unsettled

Two intercollegiate debates for the year have been arranged. Davidson will meet Randolph-Macon at Ashland, Va., on April 15, 1920.
The subject is: “Resolved, That labor through representatives of its own choosing shall have a voice in the management of
industry.” Davidson will uphold the negative in this contest. This is the first time Davidson has clashed with Randolph-Macon. Another
debate has been arranged with Mercer; as yet the details such as subject, date, place, etc. have not been completed.
All these necessary essentials will be announced later. It will be remembered that Davidson “downed” Mercer in the debate last
spring. The prospects this year are bright in both societies. Material is plentiful and of the best kind, and everything
points toward “keeping the pace.”

WILDCATS DROP FIRST GAME TO GUILFORD 29-22

The Davidson basketball team dropped the first game of the Carolina trip to Guilford by the score of 29 to
22. Both sides fought furiously and as a consequence many fouls were committed. The Red and Black were the chief
offenders and it had a distinct bearing on the score. Frazier, speedy and wiry forward, played a stellar game for
the winners, scoring 15 of the points made by his side. His dribbling was spectacular, several times bringing the ball
from one end of the floor to the other. For the losers “Prep” Hall played the best ball. Several of
his long shots were very difficult. He shared scoring honors with Striebeck, each having eight points to their credit. The
game started with a rush, Frazier dropping in a neat foul after the first few seconds of play. For the
next five minutes the Wildcats played the best brand of basketball exhibited by either side during the entire game. Hall
started the fireworks by scoring a goal from under the goal. This was followed by another by Striebeck and in
quick succession Chalmers added another. Roberts missed several long shots.

(Continued on page 8)

AUBURN, ELON, GUILFORD, AND CLEMSON HERE NEXT WEEK
