THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

LITERARY NEWS

Prof. Fullbright Gives Royal Entertainment in Eu. Society

Phi. Society Dispenses With Meeting on Account of Cold Weather

In a ragged debate in the Eumenean Society Saturday night, the affirmative, Heizer, Sorrells, Liston, and McKutchen, won the decision from their opponents, Craig, Cooper, Boyd, and Gamble. The subject discussed was: Resolved, that the Peace Treaty should be submitted to the people at the coming presidential election. The speakers all gave evidence of a certain amount of preparation, but the organization of the material in hand was poor, and though here and there a little real enthusiasm was shown, the debate as a whole was woefully lacking in ginger. The reviewer rendered his usual eulogy of Liston’s debate, that it was the best he had ever heard delivered by the aforesaid.

But the feature that converted a dull and listless meeting into an occasion of great glee, was the speech of Professor Fullbright. Before a hall full of boys satiated with listening, eager to get to the picture show which was about to start, he held, not only their attention, but their wholehearted and enthusiastic interest until after the audience knew the picture show was well under way, continuing so long only because of the vociferous demand from the entire hall that he continue. He spoke at first of the value of literary society work and of the excellence of the work of Davidson’s societies. He then told a whole series of humorous personal anecdotes that produced an almost continuous riot of laughter. Then, after the recitation of several poems that were received with like enthusiasm, he closed with Kipling’s “Gunga Din.” All business was suspended and the society adjourned.

Polity Club to Hear Dr. Lingle.

On next Tuesday night the International Polity Club will resume its regular work for the new year. Last fall the club elected new officers and several new men, but did not meet. A very enjoyable collation followed.

PROGRAMS.

Phi Society, January 24.

Regular Debate
Affirmative:
Bray, D. J.
Thames, F. C.
Negative:
Russell, H. H.
Redding, W. F.
McClure, R. E.
McLeod, F. D.

Extemporaneous Debate
Affirmative:
Lacy, T. A.
Negative:
Northrop, H. F.

Declamation:
Kimzey, W. P.

Oration:
Neel, W. C.

Eumenean Society.

The regular program will be dispensed with and the election of third term officers will be held. Also, some special business will be transacted.

O. D. K. at Present Non-Talkative. More Publicity Expected Soon.

The Omicron Delta Kappa Society did not have a meeting during the past week. A.D. McArn represented the Delta Circle at a convention of the society held in Baltimore, Md., during the past week. More of the workings of this order will be made public at a later date.

Physic Laboratories Being Thoroughly Equipped With New Apparatus.

Owing to the unusual number of students taking physics this year, the physics laboratories have been overcrowded. Since Christmas, however, the working capacity of the laboratories has been greatly increased by new desks and equipment. Among the additions of the past few months may be mentioned 60 feet of new shelves, one locker, three boxes of new instruments, containing scales, voltmeters, ammeters, and other electrical apparatus. Several A. C. and D. C. motors and generators are on the way here, and there are 10 H. P., 5 H. P., 3 H. P., 1-2 H. P., and 1-15 H. P. motors already in the lab, besides many dissectible small ones for purposes of explanation. Among the instruments that most of the students do not know the laboratories contain are an x-ray outfit, wireless outfit, Geissler tubes, telegraph outfit, Tesla coils, welding outfit, Rotary converter, mercury arc rectifier, about 40 storage batteries of the highest grade, and a spectroscope.

CAMPUSISMS.

Among those spending the weekend in the Queen City were: Doubles, M. R., Erwin, L., Roberts, W. W., Guthery, P. B., Foscue, A. S., Sample, G. D., Jamison, J. M., and Hall, F. P.

J. D. Coxe left Saturday for N. C. State College, where he intends to take a course in agriculture.

W. F. Harris, ex-’20, was on the Hill Saturday.

The college infirmary has been kept full almost the entire week. Last week the following students were in the infirmary: Brown, J. S., Gunn, H. W., Shaw, G. A., Reid, H. R., Williamson, H. C., Robinson, A. G., McAlister, L. L., Hughes, C. I., Gaston, J. M., McCuen, Roddy J., Schenck, L. B., and Wool, J. C.

R. C. Aiken, M. O. Dantzler, and D. A. Moseley visited Rock Hill last weekend.

STEALING TIME AND MONEY JUST THE SAME.

The man who picks your pocket and makes off with your money or your watch is merely taking what he wants without any regard to morals. The man who steals from his employer the time for which he is paid is doing exactly the same as the pickpocket. Stealing time is just as much a sin as stealing money. The man who satisfies his conscience in stealing his employer's time would have no difficulty in satisfying his conscience in robbing the cash drawer after he had done it two or three times, for the spirit is exactly the same, the moral turpitude is the same, for time is money just as much as money is money. The only difference is that so many people steal time by working inefficiently or not whole-heartedly that there is more companionship in this kind of stealing than there is robbing a cash drawer, and the law punishes the latter and not the former. The time should come, however, when the law takes cognizance of time stealing and places it on a par with money stealing. When men come to a full recognition of these truths there will be a great change in the spirit of work. Then men will see that if they want to be honest they must work honestly. The majority of men do not intend to be dishonest in stealing time for which they are paid; they have simply failed tothink straight, and their minds have been poisoned by the false teachings of the day. Their home training has not been altogether straight on that point, their school work has been lax on the same lines, and the newspapers many of them have read have failed to teach the truth.

William H. Anderson, State Superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League of New York, at the regular Sunday afternoon meeting at the Greenpoint Y. M. C. A., Brooklyn, on January 4, said in part:

The Anti-Saloon League is not opposing Hon. Elihu Root because he is chief attorney for the German brewers in America, but because as a friend of the brewers he is trying to obtain, and his wet friends are trying to give him a position of such influence in the affairs of the Republican party in State and Nation as to make it possible for him to help in the political efforts to overthrow and nullify prohibition.

The Anti-Saloon League does not charge that Mr. Root would use his political influence to do politically for his brewery clients what he is unable to do through the courts, but simply says that Mr. Root is in favor of the liquor traffic and has a lifelong record in favor of it and a community of interest with its offenders. For example, last fall Mr. Root joined with other wet reactionaries in a move to get even Democrats enrolled as Republicans so they could vote in the New York primaries next fall to help re-nominate a wet United States Senator who has opposed the women and stood against prohibition and moral reform generally. Mr. Root, like his brewery clients, has been a strong opponent of woman suffrage.

It is anything but an edifying spectacle to see a man honored as Mr. Root has been by the Federal Government and respected as he has been by the people of the United States, engaged in an effort to overthrow part of the Constitution of the United States and to override the moral aspirations of the people in behalf of a greedy, vicious traffic. The refusal of Mr. Taft, a former wet, and Mr. Hughes, never an ardent dry, to accept the dirty, bloody money of the brewers is sufficient answer to the claim that Mr. Root was compelled as a lawyer to take the brewers’ cases, whether he wished to or not.

If the Democrats nominate a man like William Jennings Bryan, the most noted dry orator of the country; or Josephus Daniels, hardly less noted as a militant dry Secretary of the Navy; or Attorney General Palmer, who exposed the connection between the German brewers and German propaganda, and under whom the Department of Justice is winning victories in vindicating prohibition, it will be anything but safe in view of the nine-tenths of the area and two-thirds of the population of the country dry under state and local action in advance of national prohibition, for the Republicans of the State and Nation to allow the chief brewery attorney of America to be prominent in the selection of the Republican candidate for President.

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.

WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service. He wants your business.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Reliable Equipment —FOR—
Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42d St., New York City.

DO IT NOW
DRINK WHISTLE
THE PURE FRUIT DRINK

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats
You will find our Stock the most complete in the Carolinas
Everything Men and Boys wear --- the Best of Quality.
Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts
We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU
Mail orders attended to promptly.
MELLON’S
10 WEST TRADE ST.