THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

“COME THE CHRISTIAN LEADERS OF T. can furnish, multiplies its value a hundredfold, and returns it to the Church in a life-giving consecrated leadership.” --Dr. Henry Louis Smith.

A RECORD OF WHAT DAVIDSON HAS ACCOMPLISHED WITH YOUR SUPPORT EVEN GREATER THINGS CAN BE DONE

FOOTBALL RECORD

At the end of each year when we look back upon the history of the gridiron season, it is with a feeling of pride that we review the wonderful record that Davidson has made. The name of the Wild Cats has become a familiar term in football circles. The Yellow Jackets of Tech have learned to fear them and the Tigers of Auburn have been forced to bite the dust before their terrific onslaught. The “scrappiest bunch in the universe,” is the term applied by all sport writers. A brief review of the last few seasons will show that the enviable reputation of the Red and Black is well deserved. In 1916, N.C. State, Clemson, Roanoke College, and others, went down in defeat by a healthy margin, while Ga. Tech., North Carolina, and the University of Virginia were held to a very close score.

1917 was perhaps the greatest year which a Davidson team has had in several decades. The largest score which had been made on Ga. Tech. for a period of four years was chalked up against the greatest team the Golden Tornado has ever put out. Auburn, after tying one of the leading teams in the Northwest, was defeated by a score of 21 to 7. Other notable victories included the defeat of V. M. I., Clemson, Wake Forest, Wofford, and others.

The following fall, handicapped by the restrictions placed by the S., the Wild Cats won their first game by a 10 to 0 score, but were praised highly by the big leaguers. A. & I. then proceeded to romp off with a 4 to 0 victory, closely followed by Elon, who trounced the Presbyterians 3 to 1. On the following day, the Wild Cats won their first game by a 2 to 1 score. The U. of Va. next fell before “Railroad” Clark's benders and were shut out 5 to 0. The Easter trip through Carolina was disappointing, the team losing the majority of its games by one run, and all games going to extra innings. N.C. won by a 4 to 3 score in 15 innings. Elon next won by a 2 to 1 score in 13 innings. Trinity was the next conqueror, the Methodists coming out with the large end of a 6 to 2 score. A. & F. put across an 8 to 3 victory, and Trinity finished the slaughter by winning 2 to 1 in 12 innings. Clark was the mainstay of the pitching staff, with Currie and Miley alternating. Weak hitting accounted for the poor showing of the team. The prospects are better this year, and Davidson should turn out another of the old Wild Cat teams under Coach Hengeveld.

TRACK RECORD

With the nearing of track season, eyes are turned to the promising material that Davidson will have back this year. Whether or not any of the college records will be broken remains to be seen. Wooten, ’96, was the first Davidson man to have the honor of holding two local records at the same time. He holds the broad jump record with a leap of 22 feet. This is 12 feet 7 1/4 inches behind the record. His other record, the pole vault, is 10 feet 10 inches. In this event, he is 2 feet 4 1/2 inches behind the world's record. Brand, ’19, holds the Red and Black record for the 2 mile. He completed this in 10 minutes and 10 seconds flat. The world’s record is 9 minutes 17 1/5 seconds. Grey, ’18, better known to us as “Hugh,” is the only other holder of two local records. “Wooley” pushed the 16-pound shot through the air for a distance of 38 feet. The world’s record is 51 feet, only 13 feet better.

MEDITATIONS FOR THE NEW YEAR

May this day and all the days of the New Year bring to you and all those who are dear to you the sunshine of happiness. --Richard Brooks.Record is in the discus throw. He tossed the plate for 111 feet. The world’s record is 146 feet, 10 1-4 inches. These are the only events in which a record has been kept of local cinder path activities. Most notable among these, as can be seen, are the records of Mattison in the 100, Huie in the hurdles, Wooten’s A. T. C., only three college games count and winning 5 to 3. University of Georgia was the next victim by an 8 to 3 score; Ga. Tech fell before Hengeveld’s benders by the score of 7 to 1, but in an attempt to win a double header, “Dutch” lost. The Red and Black has turned out some stars on the cinder path and their records will be hard to beat. In the running events, Davidson men have missed the world’s record by fractions of a second. Mattison, '17, reeled off the 100-yard dash in 9 4-5 seconds, only 1-5 second behind the world’s record. Gilchrist, '15, made the 220 in 23 seconds flat. The world’s record for this event is 21 1-5 seconds. In the quarter, Steele, '96, crossed the tape in 52 1-5 seconds, exactly 5 4-5 seconds behind the world’s record. Stockhard, '05, ran the half in 1 minute and 59 seconds. This is only 6 4-5 seconds behind the fastest time made in this event by the world’s holder of the record. The time of Brand, '19, for the mile is 4 minutes 47 1-2 seconds. The world’s record in this event is 4 minutes 12 3-5 seconds. In the hurdles, Davidson records compare favorably in the 120, but are not so good in the 220. Huie, '01, did the former in 15 3-4 seconds, only 1 second behind the world’s record. Thompson, '13, made the latter in 26 seconds. The world’s record for this event is 6 feet 7 5-16 inches. 

To work to help and to be helped, to learn sympathy through suffering, to learn faith by perplexity, to reach truth through wonder—behold! this is what it is to prosper, this is what it is to live. —Phillips Brooks.

Put out of your thought the past whatever it may be; let go even the future with its golden dream and its high ideal; and concentrate your soul in this burning, present moment. For the man who is true to the present is true to his best; and the soul that wins the ground immediately before it makes life a triumph. —Ozora Stearns Davis.

Resolved, to live with all my might while I do live; resolved never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it in the most profitable way I possibly can; resolved, never to do anything I despise or think meanly of in another; resolved, never to do anything out of revenge; resolved, never to do anything which I should be afraid to do if it were the last hour of my life. —Jonathan Edwards

Brady Printing Co. Statesville, N. C. The College Printers

Among those conquered. The other defeat was handed to Washington and Lee, the present champions of the Southeast. Oglethorpe University bowed down to the Wildcats to the tune of 5 to 2. This was the first time Oglethorpe had played inter-collegiate ball, and they put up a wonderful fight. After splitting even with Wofford, losing an 8 to 1 game, and winning a 4 to 2 one, Davidson ended the season by triumphing over U. of S. C. by the close score of 3 to 2, in 11 innings. This was Hengeveld’s last game, which ended when King drove a three-bagger to right, and scored on an error. The masterful pitching of Hengeveld, Clark, and Currie was responsible for many of the D. C. victories. Hengeveld graduated but Clark and Currie returned for another year. The 1919 season opened with a game against the Phillies, in Charlotte. The Wildcats were tamed by a 6 to 1 score. Oglethorpe fell before Hengeveld’s benders by the score of 7 to 1, but in an attempt to win a double header, “Dutch” lost. For the first time in several years, North Carolina was numbered among those conquered. The other defeat was handed to Washington and Lee, the present champions of the Southeast. Oglethorpe University bowed down to the Wildcats to the tune of 5 to 2. This was the first time Oglethorpe had played inter-collegiate ball, and they put up a wonderful fight. After splitting even with Wofford, losing an 8 to 1 game, and winning a 4 to 2 one, Davidson ended the season by triumphing over U. of S. C. by the close score of 3 to 2, in 11 innings. This was Hengeveld’s last game, which ended when King drove a three-bagger to right, and scored on an error. The masterful pitching of Hengeveld, Clark, and Currie was responsible for many of the D. C. victories. Hengeveld graduated but Clark and Currie returned for another year. The 1919 season opened with a game against the Phillies, in Charlotte. The Wildcats were tamed by a 6 to 1 score. 

Drawing the Line. The Chairman—Don't you think, gentlemen, in view of the high cost of living, we ought to increase our pastor's salary? Vestryman—That's all right. But don’t pay him for overtime on sermons. —Life.

The world acknowledges Christ's coming by the changing date of each new year.

ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY