THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

Greenville Woman's College rendered a very excellent program on the Hill last week.

Dr. Martin Outlines His Dream of a Greater Davidson
Equipment and Faculty to be Greatly Improved

Dear Editor:

You ask me to give to your readers my vision of The Future Davidson. I would be rash, indeed, to attempt it, and did I declare the vision of hope which my heart sees I would doubtless be declared a rank dreamer. But having hope so greatly stirred within me by the success of the recent Campaign, whereby over a half million dollars has been pledged to the College, I cannot refrain from an expression of some immediate advancement which will be made as soon as these pledges are converted into cash. And may I digress far enough to express the wish that as many as find it possible will pay their pledges in full at once without waiting for the three years to elapse. The College cannot go in debt and consequently cannot provide the improvements and enlargement so sorely needed until the money is paid.

Within the next two years, I expect to see a new dormitory erected which will house at least one hundred and fifteen students. One of our alumni, New York, is drawing the plans. At the same time, a new and enlarged Heating Plant will be erected, and the Chambers Building thoroughly renovated and heated with steam. The order for the greatly needed Laundry has been given, the contracts for building and machinery let. During this time, I expect to see at least six additional professors added to our faculty with homes sufficient for their needs, and all the departments materially strengthened. There are other things I expect to see but I would rather see them done than boast of them beforehand. Within a very few years, I hope to...

DAVIDSON CLUB (Continued from page 1)

...unconsciously in the minds of the students, which is indicating that our spirit is not up to our previous mark. This has been shown in the various bolshevistic mutterings, lately obvious, and in the lack of interest—more in some school activities than in others—which has been manifested. This lack seems to be derived from the fact that students are more and more placing personal interests above the interests of the school; it is “What do I get out of it?” not, “Will it benefit the college.” Such a condition will have to be remedied, and a good beginning for the student body would be to take more interest in the Greater Davidson Club. But an improvement in the spirit of the school will not only help raise the morals of the students, it will help bring Davidson back to her former place of prestige. The last great athletic record made by us was in 1917, and we must not let this record become too much a memory. Though our apparent failure may have been due in some measure to the teams themselves, it has been due in great part to the fact that our teams have not been sufficiently supported. We haven’t had a “pep” meeting this whole year. One of the first things heard when the football team returned from Washington and Lee last fall, was “Why did you let the miracle of play that they did not score many times, instead of just once. It certainly must have been cheering to the team to be blamed for losing probably the hardest fought game of the whole season. Let us get back that old Davidson spirit of backing our men—whether they be football players or intercollegiate debaters; for the very fact that there...

DAVIDSON STUDENTS HEAR CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR
Hon. Robert N. Page Makes Favorable Impression on Student Body and Citizens.

Last Friday night the student body and the voters of this section had the privilege of hearing the Hon. Robert N. Page. Mr. Page is a candidate for Governor of North Carolina. He has been a member of Congress from the Seventh District of North Carolina for 14 years and has been prominent in political as well as business circles for a number of years. After an introductory speech by Dr. Lingle, Mr. Page spoke at length...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

There are men back on the Hill who are sticking with them is an inspiration in itself. There are other activities which need the interest which a better spirit would bring; the literary societies, the college publications, the glee club. And the biggest task which faces the Greater Davidson Club now is the immediate and radical improvement in that for which Davidson is famous—her spirit. Let no one be staggered when I say very calmly that this will require at least one and a half million dollars added to the resources of the College.

Whether this shall be done or not will depend first of all on God’s will and then on the foresight and liberality of the Church, the friends of Christian Education, and the Sons of Old Davidson, past and present.

I am, 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. J. Martin, President.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

If you would make your life easy, make it hard.

Another point which is in dire need of improvement is the attitude of the student body toward our honor system. The student councilmen should not be the only ones to report the breaking of the code as seems to be the feeling now; and the result is that there has been a gradual let down, and if a man is not caught he is not disgraced. It has not been so long since several prominent members of the student body were detected cheating on reviews or exams, and it didn’t take the students long to ship them in disgrace. It would be much better for the college if such were more the attitude now, and if there is an organization on the Hill which may help create that attitude, the Greater Davidson Club should support it.

Mr. R. F. Smallwood spoke on the needs of the state at this time and showed himself to be in favor of a business administration, using the laws and methods of a successful business in expending the people’s money supplied through taxes, which he believes should be governed by a uniform rate of taxation with property assessed at its true valuation. He spoke strongly in favor of strengthening the public school system by training more teachers and raising the present teachers’ salaries in accordance with the other advances in wages. He is in favor of an active bureau of health and the establishing of a hospital in every county of the state, so as to adequately take care of the well-to-do who may need medical attention as well as to provide accommodations for the needy. He says we should have good roads even if we have to pay for them ourselves, but is not in favor of building roads which would only be of advantage to a few people, while others go unrepaired. Mr. Page speaks of this time as a period of reconstruction following the war and as a means of settling the unrest of the industrial world he advocates greater and freer education and more unselfishness for the people as a whole. His speech was very forceful and without the usual slighting remarks about his adversaries which very often characterize a political speech. Before coming to Davidson he spoke in Mooresville, and left here to fill an engagement at Cornelius.

HON. ROBERT N. PAGE

Davidson College thoroughly furnished with all the buildings, equipped and faculty to adequately care for and train five hundred men.

Phonograph
We can save you money. Cash or easy payments.
MAGNESS & SAIN
301 North Tryon St.
Get our prices.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements, write D. S. BROWN.
Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1824 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

“Gig” Shepherd, who entertained the audience during the brief lapse of time between the hour set and the actual commencement of the program, dropped out of the game when “J. Oscar” played his queens. In addition to the selections by the entire club, vocal and violin solos were rendered by Misses Brown and J. Oscar Miller and a club from Johnston, respectively, which were greeted with thunderous applause. Greenville Woman’s College accorded the students of Davidson an unusual opportunity to hear a musical entertainment of rare excellence when they appeared here in concert last Wednesday night. The readings by Miss Barton were offered in a very striking manner. The game closed with a long continued uproar of applause from the appreciative audience.

GREAT GATHERING GREETS GREENVILLE GLEE CLUB
Present Excellent Program — Audience Generous in its Applause.

A full hand of queens, with many diamonds, a joker, a full house on the other side and the most exciting game of the season was on in Shear-