6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 28, 1920.

Judge Graham to Deliver W. & L. Commencement Address.

Judge Samuel J. Graham, of Washington City, has accepted an invitation to deliver the address to the graduating class at
Washington and Lee University at the commencement in June.—The Ring Tum Phi.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

ALL ROADS LEAD TO CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PRISCILLA DEAN
The Movie Queen, will soon be seen on the screen
At The Strand in the picture grand
“THE VIRGIN OF STAMBOUL”
Watch for Day and Date of Opening

See Us
For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by
The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
(Charlotte, N.C. Agency)

Literary News

Program of Eu Society, May 1.
Saturday Night Section.
Affirmative: Roberts, G. B.
Negative: Bradley, S. H.
Davidson, R. F. Drake, A. E.
Weeks, G. E. Fewel, E.
Boyd, B. H. Gunn, W. E.
Davidson, R. F.
Declamation: Smith, H. H.
Oration: Harrell, W. H.

Monday, May 3
Affirmative: Matthews, C. J.
Negative: Harrell
Railey, J. E. Erwin, M.
McLaughlin, J. C. B. McAlpine
Heizer, M. H. Sullivan, W. B.
Declamations: Harrington, E.
Hamey, J. E. Buchanan
Bethea, T. C. Barr
Brown, J. Beck Bailey, H. A.

Program of Phi Society
Saturday Night, May 1
Debate
Affirmative: Brown, C. K.
Negative: Dunlap, J. M.
Long, C. G. Long, F. V.
Booker, E. N. Currie, A. L.
Oration: Wilson, L. L.
Extem. Debate
Affirmative: Robinson, C. W.
Negative: Wool, J. C.

Phi Society Meeting

The Phi Society met Saturday night for the election of officers for the next term. The elections were as follows:
President, C. G. Long; vice-president, J. H. McKeithan; secretary, M. P. Calhoun; first critic, F. V. Long; second critic, R.
R. Deaver; first supervisor, F. C. Thames; second supervisor, J. B. McCallum; treasurer, A. F. Fricker; debating councilmen, D. W.
Lowrance, J. H. McKeithan; janitor, W. M. McLeod. There was much competition for janitor, this being a remunerative as well
as an honorary position.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

C. H. LONG AND C. M. McCASKILL INITIATED BY SIGMA UPSILON FRATERNITY

The Sigma Upsilon held a very important meeting last Tuesday, April the 20th, at which two new members, C. H.
Long and C. M. McCaskill, were initiated. This being next to the last meeting this year, officers for next term
were elected and a program for the coming year was outlined. Plans were also formulated for the entrance of two
short stories in the National Short Story Contest which is being held between the 16 chapters of Sigma Upsilon. It
was stated that the medal offered by this organization to the best worker for the Davidson College Magazine has been
ordered so that it will be here for commencement. The next and last meeting will be held April 28th.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

BAND COMPLETES SUCCESSFUL TRIP

Excellent Programs Rendered in Five South Carolina Towns.

The Davidson Band concluded a most successful trip Saturday, April the 17th. The musical productions of the Band were highly
praised everywhere, and many newspapers have given enthusiastic accounts of their performances. Not only did the trip prove a musical
triumph, but a financial success as well. This was due in large measure to the efficient work of the business
manager, C. A. Dunn. An additional feature of each performance was a number of selections by the College Quartette, composed
of Carr, Freeman, Phillips and Long. By far the biggest hit on the program was the saxophone solo by Uie,
who was encored five times at one performance. Carl Cathey’s original production, “Bits of Humor,” addedfun and spice to the
whole affair. The towns visited were Rock Hill, Fort Mill, Lancaster, Kershaw, and Chester, each of which has a better
opinion of Davidson because of our band’s fine work. D. R. Freeman, leader of the band, is largely responsible for
the wonderful results that have been accomplished in the last few months. Under his leadership, combined with the hard work
of each band member, our band has become a real asset to Davidson College.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

HOTEL MANAGER WRITES LETTER OF PRAISE FOR BAND

Dr. W. J. Martin, President, Davidson, N. C.

My Dear Sir:

I had the pleasure of entertaining the Davidson College Band at this hotel yesterday and perhaps it will not be
amiss to let you know that in my ten years’ experience in the hotel business, I have never entertained a
better behaved, quieter, or more gentlemanly set of young men. It was a pleasure to have them and I can
assure you that they reflected credit on themselves and their institution by their deportment. They gave a very creditable performance
and played to a capacity house in Lancaster.

Yours very truly,
(Signed) W. T. Williams, Manager.
Hotel Royal, Lancaster, S. C.

GLEE CLUB ENTERTAINS STUDENTS OF DAVENPORT COLLEGE

The College Glee Club left Tuesday afternoon for a short trip to Lenoir, N. C., to give a concert at
Davenport College. There is something peculiar about this club and it is beyond the manager’s ability to solve it. If
they have a good audience, something inevitably mars the program; if the program goes off smoothly, something gets wrong with
the audience or rather the audience “isn’t.” In this case, the former is usually due to some unavoidable delay in
the train schedule. The club was held up for a number of hours, putting them in Lenoir at 8:30 p.m.
A very good program was rendered taking everything into consideration. The audience was very inspiring, but the lack of substance
was equally depressing. Due to a misunderstanding, the soloist, Fred Justice, did not go with them. Those making the trip
were: Vance, Carr, McCaskill, Matthews, R. L. McLeod, F. N. Thompson, Phillips, Shepard, Thames, Crane, McGeachy, Long, G. D. Sample,
Cathey, and Tremain.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

SOPH CLASS ELECTS OFFICERS

The class of ’22 has elected the following officers and student councilmen for next year: T. M. Lowry, president; C.
E. Cunningham, vice-president; J. S. Curry, secretary and treasurer; A. C. Summers, J. M. Richards, and J. C. Bailey, student
councilmen.

DR. LINGLE LECTURES ON FRANCE

At the last meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club, Dr. Lingle gave an address on the educational and political conditions
in France. Having frequently visited this European country, he was in a position to add many interesting facts from personal
observation. The ladies met in the Phi hall recitation room, and so the lecture was held in a real French
atmosphere. The Club at its next meeting is to be entertained by Mrs. Hamilton. Plans for the new annual program
will be discussed.

C. J. Mattison and L. K. Boggs, of the Clemson track team, are old Davidson men who for one reason
or another “fell from grace.”

Mrs. Dr. Lingle has left for a lecture tour through Florida.

FOR RENT CHEAP

For June, July, and August the Abbott House on Main Street will be for rent. For terms see

MRS. U. P. ABBOTT
Davidson, N. C.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years
afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements,
write

D. S. BROWN
Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them—but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
