On the Gridiron | When the Wildcats get on a rampage it takes more than a Spider to stop them.
Two in a row is a pretty fair start. Let’s make it three straight victories next Saturday. The Spiders had
a strong web in the center but it was weak around the edges, and as soon as “Spratt,” the wild
little quarter of the Wildcats, discovered it, he sent his men around the ends and tore the web to shreds.

Citadel. Citadel next Saturday? Well, I reckon. Cadets from Charleston, but it is well not to be overconfident. The last
time we played them, on Sprunt Field in 1916, they held us to a 7 to 7 tie. The Cadets
won a game from Wofford Saturday by a margin of 19 points. In this game both their quarterback and fullback
did splendid work and showed that they were men to be feared on the gridiron. The men from Richmond University
showed themselves to be true sports and gentlemen, for even when the game was going against them, they did not
resort to rough tactics or dirty playing. We enjoy playing such a bunch.

U. of S. C. vs. P. C. The two schools in South Carolina put up a stellar brand of football,
but the State’s proteges finally edged over two touchdowns on the huskies from P. C.

North vs. South. Intersectional games started with a “bang” when Pitt and Harvard nosed out Tech and Centre. Both the
teams from below the Mason and Dixon line fought a grim battle but the heavier northern teams finally wore them
out. V. M. I. continued her winning streak when she upset the dope by pouncing on Pennsy and by shaking,
rattling, and rolling 27 points out of her. U. of P. gathered only 7 points. Yale took West Virginia into
camp with a 24 to 0 score.

N. C. State vs. U. of N.C. State gained her revenge on the University during the past week by beating
her 13 to 3. The boys from Chapel Hill fought hard but succumbed before the smashing onslaught of Coach “Bill’s”
lads. Two of the greatest Southern teams clash this weekend. Tech plays Centre. The gridiron fans will have a chance
to compare the great “Buck” Flowers with the peerless “Bo” McMillan. Both are captains and are, without a doubt, two
of the greatest football artists produced in the last decade.

Furman. The South Carolina Baptists hung a 17 to 0 sign all over Wake Forest. Coach Laval has turned out
a well-rounded team and “Speedy” Speer is going better than ever. We will have to get tuned up for this
last game of the year, for they are thirsting to wipe out the 41 to 14 score that was handed
to them last season.

Save those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY, Charlotte, N. C. Local agent D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts.

Reports give us the edge on the...

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

CAROLINA FRESHMEN FALL BEFORE KITTENS

Game Clean and Fiercely Contested Throughout.

In as good a football game as has ever been witnessed on Sprunt Field, the Scrubs triumphed over the much
heavier Carolina Freshmen team by a score of 10-0. The Wildkittens put up a brand of play that would have
done credit to any varsity, and outplayed and outfought Carolina at every stage of the game.

At the initial kick-off a comparison of the two teams gave scant hope for a Davidson victory, but the Scrubs
soon amply demonstrated that weight is not everything in football. The Carolina line was heavier per man than the line
of Captain, but the Scrubs were out to win, and putting up the wonderful game they did, they deserved nothing
less. The visitors were handicapped by a lack of real hard scrimmaging previous to the game and as a result
suffered frequently from temporary injuries received at the hands of their hardened opponents. The Wildkittens outplayed their opponents more than
the score would indicate and were kept from scoring by only narrow margins. It was a clean-cut victory and the
Scrubs deserve all the credit possible.

During the first half the Scrubs worked their shift to great advantage, the newborn Tarheels apparently having met with nothing
of the kind before. The whole backfield worked well, and Clary especially made long gains around the ends whenever called
on. At the end of the first half the score stood 0-0, but in the third frame the Scrubs pushed
over their first initial counter. Clary put the ball within striking distance of the goal by a pretty 35-yard run,
and soon thereafter Dantzler brought the spectators to their feet by a fine piece of broken field running which netted
the first touchdown. Dantzler again responded nobly in the fourth period to a call for a drop kick, and though
in very crowded circumstances, planted the ball between the uprights fora field goal from the 25-yard line. The whole Scrub
team gave their best and it is a hard matter to pick any particular stars. The line did well though
they were so much outweighed. Knight and McLaughlin stood out prominently and Richards on end several times did good work
on the defense. Mac accepted his one chance on a forward pass for a gain of 25 yards. In the
backfield, Clary, Sizer, and Dantzler vied with each other for honors, and each played a wonderful game. “Jitney” ran the
team well and, handicapped as he was by an injured wrist, put up a great game. The work of Clary
and Dantzler has been mentioned. They exhibited as pretty running as has been seen here this season.

The game was witnessed by a good crowd, all of whom were well satisfied with the game. There were several
parties from Charlotte and other places. Former Coach Pete Crayton was on hand and officiated as umpire.

D. C. Scrubs .......................... 0 0 7 3 — 10
N. C. Freshmen .................. 0 0 0 0 — 0
Referee: Boe; Umpire: Crayton; Head Linesman: Christenbury.

SALISBURY GOLFERS WIN FROM DAVIDSON
Darkness Allows Only 12 Holes to be Completed.

The pro-tempus golf team composed of Messrs. White, Sample, Fricker, and Doubles journeyed over to Salisbury last week to test
their skill. Free transportation was furnished by Dr. J. L. Douglass, whose services are greatly appreciated. The match was only
a practice as the real intercollegiate matches come off after the golf team is picked. Messrs. Sample and White opposed
Messrs. Lloyd and Walker. Starting late caused darkness to overtake the players on the 12th hole with Salisbury in the
lead 4 up. The remaining 6 holes had therefore to be abandoned just as Davidson was beginning to show rare
form. The course being in somewhat bad condition tended to offset Davidson's playing; nevertheless, they did their best as is
always typical of D. C. in any form of athletics. The team was entertained during their short stay royally by
the Salisbury Club to whom they wish to extend their heartiest thanks.

Manager White announces a return match on the Davidson Links Thursday afternoon. The Eliminating contest to choose those men who
will compose the regular golf team will be held at a date to be announced later. The team will represent
Davidson in all the intercollegiate matches for which several have been scheduled. For the benefit of the players next Thursday—listen
fellows—let’s all turn out and help Davidson get revenge by repeating its feat of last year. Will you come?

Oh, No! V. M. I. isn’t going at all strong this year. The Cadets let Roanoke College down by a
54 to 0 score, and last week smothered Hampden-Sidney to the tune of 136 to 0. In two games 190
points isn’t so bad.

More R. O. T. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Fall Sports--- PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, October 28, 29, and 30

OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul P. Case

ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS

THE RENZETTAS
A New Wrinkle in Juggling

JOHNNY DOVE
The Scotch Minstrel---Late of Minstrel Fame

MARRIED VIA WIRELESS
Seven Artists—The Most Elaborate Mechanical Scenic Production in Vaudeville

CAITS BROTHERS
The Tailor-Made Boys

and

BEATRICE MABEL FONDA AND COMPANY
Superlative Manipulators

Fall Sports are now on with the passing of baseball. We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting
Goods. Call or write us.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248
