2 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 28, 1920. Athletic News

BASKETBALL GLEANINGS.

From all indications, the various college and “Y” teams in N.C. are very evenly matched this season, and any game scheduled will be a hard one. The dope has been slightly in favor of the University of North Carolina, and by upsetting the dope in her first game with this Carolina quint, the Wildcats loomed up with bright possibilities. With a week of hard games on foreign courts, the dope stands a good chance of being upset again. However, with the team in good order under the able direction of Coach Hengeveld, Davidson is looking forward eagerly to the contests of the week. A return game at Davidson is scheduled with Guilford, North Carolina State, and Wake Forest. Carolina is expecting to turn the tables in the second game with Davidson at Chapel Hill. Every effort will be made to guard Roberts, who scored 17 points in the game at Davidson. Regardless of all efforts, the Wildcats will again be out to “fight, fight, fight for victory, and the name of old D. C.”

N.C. State has a heavy team, corresponding to her football eleven. Cline, captain, and Gurley are playing the guard positions. Groome, an old basketball star, is at center, while Ripple and Deal are holding down the forward positions. Elon has practically the same team as last year when the Wildcats secured the decision. Elon has been defeated by Guilford and Trinity, and if true to their form, the Wildcats should administer a similar defeat.

The coming week will see many of the basketball teams of this state, as well as the entire South, swing into real action for the first time this season. Only a few games have been played thus far, but from the class of ball being displayed, it is evident that the contests for the various championships will be unusually bitter. The scores of some of the contests which have already been staged are as follows:

Trinity, 22; Guilford, 20.
Trinity, 18; Elon, 16.
Univ. of N.C., 50; Guilford, 23.
University of N.C., 32; Charlotte “Y,” 40.
University of N.C., 26; Durham “Y,” 25.
Trinity, 28; N.C. State, 22.
Guilford, 33; Greensboro “Y,” 30.
Charlotte “Y,” 28; Spartanburg “Y,” 38.
Univ. of Ga., 36; Clemson, 22.
Newberry, 19; Citadel, 10.
Univ. of N.C., 36; Trinity, 25.
University of N.C., 28; Durham “Y,” 27.
Wake Forest, 10; Elon, 5.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co. Expert Dyers and Cleaners Charlotte, N.C. Agency 18 Watts

MANAGER FOR 1920

Last week, at a meeting of the Athletic Association, Lewis B. Schenck was elected manager of the football team for the 1920 season. Schenck's enforced retirement from his role as premier basketball artist for a few weeks will enable him to bring to a rapid completion the numerous details which are a necessary evil in the making and perfecting of any such undertaking. As all of us know, Schenck’s career at Davidson has been a succession of ably filled offices in the various class and student body organizations, and he is therefore very well prepared to take over the reins in his most recent capacity. His activities, as is mentioned above, have also carried him to a prominent part on the basketball squad, and thus we see in him a combination of executive ability and an understanding of human nature, which, we are confident, will carry him through his term as football manager with flying colors.

OUR CHINESE STUDENT NARRATES EXPERIENCES

Meng Tells of First Impressions of America.

I had my first sight of America on September 11, 1919, when I landed in San Francisco with 146 Chinese students. After the long blankness at sea, so many new things seemed to come all of a sudden. We all enjoyed landing, though it had been very pleasant on the sea. Then we busied ourselves with touring. We visited all the famous places of California. We ascended on top of Tamalpais and also to Muir Woods, where we saw the small cabin of Mark Twain. Then we started for our various destinations. All of the other students were distributed inthe West and North and I alone was to go to the South. I faced my long trip with the spirit of an adventurer and managed my affairs with the utmost care. After I had checked my baggage through, I emerged with the crowd to the train bravely though with a little nervousness. The first person I encountered was the Pullman porter. I was delighted to see the actual person whom I had read about in Uncle Tom’s Cabin. By association, the story of Lincoln and the Civil War was brought into my mind. This strange porter conducted me to my seat. I glanced around. All faces were new to me. For the first time, I felt lonesome and was conscious of the fact that I was in a foreign country. I felt that I was an outcast from fellowship and sympathy. I turned my eyes indifferently toward the outside and tried to amuse myself with the pretty California landscape. My idle mind began to meditate. I wondered why Nature should play so many tricks with creation. I like to have fellowship and hospitality everywhere so that goodwill prevails against prejudices and indifference so that poor travelers will not feel homesick. But the differences in appearance, language, and customs render that world brotherhood almost impossible. Traditional hatred and national prejudices make the natural barriers worse and deeper. Why should the world have strifes, unfriendliness, and horrible wars? I do not blame Nature for creating these natural barriers, but I see with pain that people are still unable to get rid of this narrowness. I recall the noble idea of Tolstoi. He says that creation is one “life” and that one substance, one person, or one nation is but part of that “life.” Those who injured others injured this “life” and therefore injured themselves. After this meditation, I felt myself cheered up. “I will make fellowship. I must overcome natural difficulties.” With new vigor and a cheerful frame of mind, I turned my eyes on the people in the car.

THERE'S NONE TOWN NEWS.

W. C. Neel is getting along fine with his work in the high school. He also likes his work and it is hoped by the students of Davidson that he will have a very successful year.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with Miss Ellinwood, Friday afternoon. Mrs. Murray Gray will read a paper on China, Japan, and Korea.

Mrs. Archibald Currie has been sick the past week. Miss Gordon Baskerville, teacher of the fifth grade, has been ill for several days. Miss Lafferty has been teaching for her. Miss Inez Christenbery attended a convention the latter part of last week. She came back and was at school again last Saturday. Mrs. Boggs, from West Virginia, is visiting her daughter, Mrs. Macon Reed. Miss Sarah Lingle will be home Thursday, from school in Winston-Salem, to spend the weekend.

Dr. Thornton Whaling was a guest of Dr. J. M. McConnell.

The executive committee and officers of the Civic League met together last Friday afternoon and elected Miss Mary Lynch, of Chapel Hill, community nurse. Miss Lynch is a standard Red Cross nurse. Dr. Martin is in Charlotte now on the million-dollar campaign. Mrs. Brown and her two children are here to spend the rest of the winter with her brother, Dr. Sentelle.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. J. M. McConnell last Friday afternoon. Miss Mary Lafferty, who has been spending the winter in Charlotte with her nephew, has been here for a few days. Dr. Richards spent a few days in Morganton.

THORP-MINTER.

Invitations have been issued to the marriage of Mr. John Russell Minter to Miss Evelyn Louise Thorp, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Monroe Thorp, the ceremony to take place at 8 o’clock in the evening, Saturday, the 17th of February, in the Edgewood Presbyterian Church, Edgewood, Pa. Mr. Minter was a member of the class of '13.

GREEN RIVER

THE SNAPPY LIME DRINK

GREEN RIVER is different from any other drink you have ever tasted. It has a distinctive flavor all its own—one that pleases and thoroughly satisfies. Served with either charged or plain water at all soda fountains. You'll like it. Ask for it today.