° MISS GAITHER PEARSON Salisbury, N. C. THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920. SOME OF THE CAUSES FOR JUNIOR SPEAKING HEARTACHE
MISS MILDRED BARBOUR Charlotte, N. C. MISS JULIA SHERRILL Statesville, N.C. MISS ELOISE DOXEY Charlotte, N. C. Throngs of Fair
Visitors on Hill for Speaking—Variety of Events Make Occasion Attractive Fair Weather Smiles Upon the Forensic Exercises—Old Friends Meet Once
More on the Hill—Whole Program Full of Animation and Spirit Fraternity Reception Enjoyable Affair. Clear weather for a Junior Speaking
Fraternity Reception! Such a thing had hardly been thought of for some 17 years past, but last Saturday night proved
that there is an exception to every rule. The weather man had substituted some of the coldest weather of the
winter for the usual torrential downpour of the occasion. The reception was somewhat later than usual in beginning, owing to
the basketball game with N. C. State did not end until almost 10 o’clock. The visitors returning from this contest
were greeted by the blazing fires and cheery comfort of the different halls and lost little time in beginning the
festivities of the evening. After a short time, during which the guests of several fraternities enjoyed themselves in their respective
halls, couples began to move back and forth between the “Rows” and the society halls. For a time the various
receiving lines were almost overwhelmed by the steady stream of visitors, who stopped only long enough to exchange greetings with
their acquaintances, as well as to make new ones, and to be served with the refreshments that were pressed upon
them. Mr. Miles, our “Y” secretary, was heard to remark after completing the rounds, that if all the punch he
had received had been “spiked,” he would not have been able to make his way home. His experience was typical
of that of all the other guests. In such pleasant occupations the evening soon passed. The hour of midnight had
arrived and the reception was at an end almost before anyone realized how late it was. LARGE NUMBER OF GIRLS
ON HILL FEB. 27, 28, AND 29 During the closing days of February Davidson College was besieged by a troop
of the prettiest and most winsome girls of the South. So complete was our surrender that not even the usual
cry of “Fire” was heard. Even the speeches of the silver-tongued Juniors were not superior to quiet orations delivered before
small audiences, under the influence of soft moonlight, which was very unusual for a speaking, and which aided in causing
the strong heart of many a youth to flutter. The guests on the campus were as follows: Beta Theta Pi.
Misses Gaither Pearson, Margaret Overton, Travis Salisbury, Salisbury; Sarah Watt, Reidsville; Elizabeth McClure, Chester, S. C.; Helen Regan, Gastonia; Elizabeth
Grey, Davidson; Virginia Arthur, Greenville; Vivian Gregory, Norfolk, Va.; Kathryn Newson, Elizabeth Brown, Catherine Scott, Sidney Caldwell, Charlotte; Lelia Cox,
Winston-Salem; Mrs. Grace Adams, Mrs. Stewart, Charlotte; Captain and Mrs. A. N. Mueller, Davidson; Mr. J. W. S. Gilchrist, Charlotte.
Kappa Alpha. Misses Mary McQueen, Laurinburg; Esther Patrick, Milan, Tenn. Pi Kappa Alpha. Misses Virginia Hinkle, Julia Sherrill, Elizabeth Bowles,
Dorothy Gill, Statesville; Margaret Maxwell, Lillian Bailes, Charlotte; Mrs. C. H. Hinkle, Statesville; Mrs. C. H. Barringer, Charlotte; Messrs. J.
P. McNeille, Florence, S. C.; F. N. McKellar, Rowland; J. E. McQueen, Clio, S. C.; F. A. Hill, G. P.
Scott, W. H. H. Cowles, Statesville; A. M. Inman, William Inman, York, S. C.; Earl McKellar, George Pleasants, Rowland; Thomas
Parks, A. & E.; Robert E. Lee, Monroe; J. R. Gaither, Newton; Mr. Kohn, Columbia, S.C. Bachelor's Club. Misses Ruth
Crisp, Lenoir; Margaret Anderson, Mae Stewart, Charlotte; Marie Edgerton, Winston-Salem;Margaret Patterson, Savannah, Ga.; Sarah Lingle, Davidson; Mary Bridges, Margaret Evans,
Charlotte; Elizabeth Thames, Gastonia; Mildred Smith, Margaret Sloane, Katharine Brawley, Statesville; Mrs. Hill, Red Springs; Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Hunt, Davidson;
Misses Mary Shelton, Elizabeth Sloane, Statesville; L. C. McAskill, Miller, Charlotte; Elizabeth Hendren, Winston-Salem; Virginia Gilmer, Anderson, S. C.; Ruby
Spencer, Gastonia; Eloise Doxie, Charlotte; Kathryn Worth, Spartanburg, S. C.; Eloise Martin, Davidson; Kathryn Gilmer, Martha Jamison, Charlotte; Dorothy Finlayson,
Davidson; Lucy Holmes Carson, Virginia Whitlock, Virginia Scott, Charlotte; Isic Moses, Winston-Salem; Faith Price, Charlotte; Mary Louise Bennett, Lancaster, S.
C.; Mrs. Robert Miles, Mrs. White, Mrs. Richards, Davidson; Messrs. John Payner, Fred Wilson, James Carson, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma. Misses Mary Parks Grey, Lucy Myers, Kathleen Price, Elizabeth Armstrong, Greensboro; Hettie Bethea, Dillon, S. C.; Dell Bernhardt,
Ruth White, Mary Harrison, Lenoir; Margaret Council, Lauralyn Wylie, Salisbury; Frances Shearer, Rocky Mount, Va.; Emma Hope, Rock Hill, S.
C.; Lottie Carrol, Bishopville, S. C.; Janet Mellon, Charlotte; Dorothy Mendenhall, Lexington; Hilda Randolph, Kinston; Mary Bradham, Winston-Salem; Mrs. W.
E. Schenck, Greensboro; Messrs. J. L. McKeithen, Aberdeen; A. G. Moore, Carlyle Stucci, Harvey Johnston, Wofford College; Eugene Crayton, Univ.
of N. C.; Caldwell McDonald, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Misses Sara Jeffreys, Olivia Wilson, Lucia Wilkinson, Winston-Salem; Mary Cobb, Durham; Mary Knight, Sumter, S. C.; May
Jesse, Greenville, S. C.; Pauline Hood, Mary Love Fraleigh, Spartanburg, S. C.; Allen Va. Fanner, Anderson, S. C.; Dan Darlington,
Virginia Grey, Laurens, S. C.; Mildred Hull, Johnson City, Tenn.; Daphonie Wimbish, Winston-Salem; Ruth Hunter, Prosperity, S. C.; Mrs. J.
W. McConnell, Davidson; Miss Crem Prince, Sanford; R. D. Hall, Belmont; A. T. Cashion, Gastonia; A. Foil, Jr., J. P.
Choate, Concord.

FORMER DAVIDSON STAR SELECTED FOOTBALL COACH

H. M. Grey to Return to His Alma Mater Next Year as Gridiron Instructor.

H. M. Grey, ’18, former all-American guard, will have charge of Davidson’s athletic activities next year as chief coach. In
football, he will have an assistant coach. There will be a chief coach other than Coach Grey for basketball and
baseball. Though nothing definite is known, it is hoped that Coach Hengeveld will fill this position again next year.

Having played four years here, winning three D’s in football; a star among that aggregation of stars, the 1917 team,
the eleven that beat Auburn and made the best score of the year against Tech; having been one of Davidson’s
greatest athletes, "Wooley" Grey gives every promise of being a great coach. Coach Grey has already spent a summer studying
football at the University of Chicago. He expects to go to the University of Wisconsin this summer to take a
course in the technique of football, baseball, basketball, and track. For the past two years, he has been coach at
Bailey Military Institute, and last year turned out a championship football team.

On his personal qualifications, on his past athletic record, and on his determined love for Davidson, Coach Grey is the
man of the hour in Davidson athletic circles.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin have gone to Pass Christian for several weeks’ rest.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Queens College Alumni Association PRESENTS Frances Alda In a Concert, Auditorium Friday Evening, 8:30

Tickets on Sale at the Commissary 16 Chambers
