THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN | Open Forum | The Livest Wire on the Hill?

CHANGE THE POINT SYSTEM.

Several years ago the point system was put into effect at Davidson and has so far very efficiently served its purpose. At the time it was first outlined there was an allotment made of the points which was considered a just and fair division to suit the need of that day. Since that time the conditions on the campus have undergone changes which should warrant a corresponding change in the divisions of the honors of the college.

Especially has this been found to be true since the military department has become an active feature of the college work. Five years ago no one dreamed that there would be any military organization on the campus, and for that reason no provision was made in the point system for the leaders in that phase of college activity. If we are to ask men to assume added work and responsibility in this department, then they should be limited in their work along other lines.

It is the purpose of the point system to make a division of the outside duties so that no man will have more work than he can successfully carry on and at the same time give as many as possible an opportunity for an experience and training not provided for in the regular curriculum. It is an injustice to a man to give him more than he can do, and likewise, it is an injustice to his classmates to be deprived of such an advantage. The college is growing rapidly, providing more men to fill the positions of responsibility. It should not be necessary with so large a student body to overwork any student. An expansion of the honor system to fit the new conditions, especially in regard to the commissioned officers in the R. O. T. C., has become necessary. At this time when our constitution is undergoing other developments we have an opportunity to make this progressive step and it is hoped that some action will be taken at once.

P.D.

We hope since we now have our half million that the Bird’s Eye View of Davidson College in the Bulletin will soon pass from its present camouflaged state.

Judging from the way a few of the students speak on the campus one might think that this was a deaf and dumb institute.

May the band blow unceasingly of the merits of Davidson on its six-day trip.

FIRE PROTECTION.

On Friday evening of the week before last we heard “Fire,” but it wasn’t the usual cause. It was a chimney burning out in the Phi Hall. It looked like a real fire, but was only a false alarm. The question was raised what would we have done if it had been a fire? Buckets and wash pans would have been our equipment! We have a good tank and hydrants at several stations on the campus, but they are of no worldly use except to bear the silver paint on them, unless we have hose to attach to them. Yes, we have been fortunate that no serious fire has occurred, but perhaps we should not be too sure? E Pluribus Unum.

The biggest crowd at a college baseball game in the history of Charlotte attended the N. C. State-Davidson contest last Saturday. We wonder what will happen next! If Charlotte would support Davidson like the Queens College student body it would sure be a Red and Black city. Our sisters were in full force at the game and cheered gamely throughout the afternoon. Then, as if they had not done enough for us, we were the guests of a splendid reception at their school. We appreciate this very much, Queens, and may the loyalty of these two institutions grow stronger as time goes on.

AND THE NEW SHALL SERVE YOU.

The new staff has now been in service two weeks, and we trust that our initial efforts have not been unworthy of the past success of our publication. We do ask your leniency, however, until the new men become thoroughly acquainted with their duties before you see fit to criticize us too harshly. By this we would not have you understand that we do not want criticism, for we do, as constructive criticism and advice will never be turned away unheeded. Thus we take this means of extending to our readers the opportunity of giving us their suggestions and advice in whatever way they believe will be for the betterment of our paper.

Perhaps our subscribers are thinking that we are dilatory in making known our plans and purposes for next year, but this is due to the fact that we have been trying to complete them before making any announcement. At this time we think that matters have reached the stage when we can set before you the things to which we will devote our attention.

“The Livest Wire on the Hill” Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL. ---------------------- Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS. ---------------------- Managing Editor
A. B. ORMOND ---------------------- Assistant Managing Editor
R. DOUBLES ---------------------- Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS ---------------------- Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL ---------------------- Exchange Editor
J. R. BOUEWARE, JR. ---------------------- Or Editor
B. W. ROBERTS ---------------------- Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL ---------------------- Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR. ---------------------- Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE ---------------------- Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
P. C. CUMMING
D. L. MAHOOD
E. X. BOOKER
A. M. MITCHELL
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
B. B. BRITENHIRT
J. M. GILMER
J. W. PHILLIPS
W. W. MOORE
C. SUMMERS
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, J. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. Wilkes, D. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN ---------------------- Business Manager
E. A. NASH ---------------------- Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY ----------------------

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG ---------------------- Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL ---------------------- Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

If a man were to be judged by the way he keeps his pledge, how many men of honor would be found on the baseball team?

A new organization has recently been formed on the hill which will be known as “The Diamond Club.” This club was formed on the 3rd of March, 1920. At present it is holding its meetings in 48 Chambers. It is thePlan of the organization to secure a hall on the first floor of the Eu or Phi Society buildings. Our goal is manifold, yet by no means unattainable.

NEW CLUB FORMED.

The one great thing that we must do is to improve the quality of our articles; that is, to better the style of all write-ups so that they will be as interesting to our readers as possible. To this end, we are going to bend all efforts. Also, the departments into which our paper was divided by the old staff will receive more attention than heretofore, for everyone will acknowledge that there is room for improvement. Last but by no means the most unimportant is the size of the publication. While most of our efforts will be expended on the quality of The Davidsonian, yet the quantity of it will not be neglected in that beginning next fall our regular issue shall be one of ten pages. This increase is but a natural result of the era upon which our institution has now embarked. The old staff has bequeathed us a paper that has become immensely popular and more widely read than ever, and by aid of the plans set forth above we will endeavor to the best of our ability to hand it over to our successors a bigger and a better paper than as received by us. Knowing that we cannot do this task alone, we do earnestly beseech our readers that they cooperate with us in every possible way to make this goal possible. Remember, the new staff considers itself but a servant to the students, alumni, and friends of our school, and as such we cannot think of any greater service than to devote our time and energy to an organization whereby we can work for the betterment of the reputation, success, and honor of old Davidson.

GREEN CAPS OR NO GREEN CAPS

The Executive Committee will in the near future offer an amendment or resolution or something to that effect, which will provide, we understand, for exemption of all freshmen of 21 years of age or above from the wearing of the green cap.—Crimson and White.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

THE HONOR SYSTEM: WHAT IT STANDS FOR

The Honor System is a form of student government installed at Tech by the Faculty, which places every student on his honor to do everything that is befitting to a gentleman at all times. This system has proven to be highly successful at Tech, and each year it grows stronger in its operation. New students are made familiar with the Honor System upon entering Tech, and in most cases, splendid adherence to the same is shown. In assuming that every Tech student is a gentleman, two things are meant: first, a student’s conduct must be that of a gentleman both around and away from Tech; second, in all tests and examinations there should be nothing done that would be questionable to a gentleman’s honor. In other words, every Tech man’s Honor Pledge is: I hereby certify on my honor that I have neither given nor received aid on this examination. A very good addition to this pledge has been suggested: “Nor have I witnessed any such violation.” In case a man is suspected of violating the honor system, he is given a fair trial before an Honor Court, made up entirely of the students and is dealt with according to their decision. In case a verdict of guilty is handed in, a dishonorable discharge from college follows.—Technique.

STUDENT HONOR.

Whatever may be your private opinion as to student honor, it is an established fact that it is a highly desired quality. Some people think every time student honor is mentioned it means a great amount of talk concerning cheating on examinations. The student who cheats on a quiz or examination is a liability to any class and the sooner he or she leaves the campus the better, for the other students. To the end that student honor should include such matters, we agree, but for it to stop there would mean the loss of momentum which should be applied to many more phases of student life.—Orange and White.

LAFAYETTE WINS DEBATE FROM DICKINSON

Lafayette’s negative team, composed of Shotwell, ’20, MacWilliams, ‘22, and Chase, '22, met Dickinson’s affirmative team on Friday night and defeated it by a 2 to 1 decision. The Dickinson team was composed of Cadwell, leader, Stoner, and Kinerman. Chaplin Carruthers acted as chairman and the judges were Rev. Donahue, Phillipsburg; Mr. Heiberger, president of the Easton Board of Trade, and Mr. C. K. Knight. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That labor through representatives of its own choice should share in the management of corporate industry."—The Lafayette.

Davidson had made preparations to debate Dickinson’s team when Dickinson was forced to cancel.

“ALL STUDENT CLUB” ORGANIZED

In a very enthusiastic meeting in the chapel on Thursday, March 11, the students decided to form a club in which every student of the University will be an active member. This club has many purposes. The most important of these are the fostering of a real spirit among the students, and the bringing of the students closer together as a body. This club is a super-club over all other student organizations and can accomplish many desirable things. The official name of the club is “The All Students Club.” Mr. D. G. Stout was elected temporary chairman. A constitution and by-laws were presented and accepted with a few small changes.—Orange and White.

FOOTBALL CHANGES ARE PROPOSED

A proposal to change the rules of football so the length of the game will be regulated by the number of plays instead of by time, will be considered at the next meeting of the football rules committee. The plan, advanced by Harry R. Coffin, a Harvard graduate, is said to have the endorsement of Walter Camp, Percy D. Haughton, and others prominent in the sport. The object is to overcome the wide variation in the number of plays in contests directed by different officials and to prevent a team which is leading from delaying in order to consume time. Mr. Coffin advocates a 40-play period, with tries for goal after touchdown, and penalties for fouls not counted as plays.—Collegiate World.

(Continued on page 6)

You smoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe, because it’s a sweet, mellow smoke. Follow the old pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, or more WDC Pipes on your rack. Smoke a cool one every time. Then you'll know what a real smoke is. Any good dealer will furnish you with several select shapes. W. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES