=e t ! | Prof. Kimball T | | Oak Ridge Speaks Here am! THEDA VI. SONIAN |=. FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 18, 1920. No. 24

Lyceum to Present Another Treat Saturday Night

Edward Reno, Magician, Noted Prestidigitator, in Pleasing Performance of Matchless Magic.

Ticket holders for the Davidson Lyceum course on the Hill this year are to have the treat of their lives Saturday night, March 20, at 8:30 o'clock. Edward Reno, magician extraordinary, has the distinction of being the oldest active Redpath entertainer on the Redpath system today. For over 20 years Mr. Reno has been puzzling and surprising delighted audiences throughout the country in his program of magic and mysticism. Followers of Sir Oliver Lodge will take keen delight in seeing their theories demonstrated by this lightning-like man of mystery and Ouija boards will doubtless be on sale by some enterprising Davidsonites after he has firmly convinced skeptics of the powers of darkness. There is no doubt of the fact that those desiring good seats will have to come out early to avoid a rush for the bald-headed row. The management will attempt to accommodate the crowd by drafting the Y. M. C. A. benches, and Captain Mueller’s chairs and seats will be open in the order of “first come first served.”

For the benefit of those who purchased season tickets and have lost or misplaced them, the price of full single admission will necessarily have to be charged in exchange for a refund slip which will in turn be exchanged for 50 cents when such tickets are presented to Mr. Oltman or when check discounted for $1.75 in payment of the season ticket, is produced. An effort to obtain Mr. Read, who was to have been here last month, is being made, and very likely Mr. Read will be able to fill his cancelled engagements early in April. The definite date of his appearing will be announced as soon as matters have been cleared up. Saturday night’s performance will begin sharply at 8:30 o’clock. Let’s greet him with even a more enthusiastic and numerous crowd than Mr. Packard had last Saturday night.

J. E. CASSELL ELECTED EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Men Win Places on Staff.

At the annual election held last Monday morning, J. E. Cassell was elected editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian for next year. C. H. Long was elected circulation manager, and A. G. Oltman, business manager. At a previous meeting of the staff, J. M. Richards was appointed managing editor, and J. P. Price assignment editor. M. R. Doubles was appointed on the staff as athletic editor. These men go into office on the 1st of April and go out next year at the same time. They are the most important offices on the staff, and the men picked have shown and will show great interest in The Davidsonian and in making it the best college paper of the South.

Harry Caldwell, ’13, is now located at Concord, N. C., as agent for Chandler, Velie, and Cleveland cars. T. K. Trotter, ’12, is scout master in Camden, S. C., where he is practicing law.

NEW OFFICERS OF THE N. C. VOLUNTEER UNION—Left to right: Miss Clara Henly, Secretary; Eugene Chesson, Treasurer; Miss Sue Ervin, Vice-President; D. W. Roberts, President.

North Carolina Volunteer Union Holds Annual Conference---High Standards Set for Work During New Year

Davidson Plays Host to Many Visitors—Inspiring Meetings Held—Social Events Also Enjoyed—Over Sixty Fair Visitors on the Hill

The house, but consensus of opinion was strongly in favor of mission study classes under group leaders.

Friday Night Session.

After a short intermission the business session was continued in the form of a review of good missionary books. Dr. Bedinger, a Presbyterian missionary to Africa, and an old Davidson man, then made what has been considered by many as easily the best speech of the Convention. His ringing challenge for men and women, doctors, teachers, and evangelists alike, as well as industrial men, was impressive and thrilling to the last degree. The speaker then asked all who were interested in the work to follow him into the Sunday school room for further conferences, and fifty or sixty went with him, many of them deciding on the spot to go into the work. The Volunteers then held a meeting in which the various colleges reported on their bands. Wake Forest, Trinity, Meredith, G. C. W., and N. C. College all reported large active Volunteer Bands.

Saturday Afternoon.

The afternoon session on Saturday was opened with a song service and devotional exercises conducted by Rev. R. W. Miles. The wholeand government buildings. The afternoon was one of interest and beautiful mountain scenery. The entire talk was one of unusual interest, and many of those present began to feel the “missionary germ” grow within them as they saw the vital needs of the Koreans.

Saturday Morning.

The sessions Saturday morning were largely of a business nature. Dr. Murray first discussed the purpose of the convention and outlined methods of conducting mission study on the campuses. Many excellent suggestions were made. Miss Edith Hazlett, Traveling Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, was the principal speaker on the program. Miss Hazlett’s remarks centered around two major themes, “Praying and Giving.” After she had explained the objects of the movement, she took up her two themes, showing the value and efficiency of prayer and the various methods of giving that will cause growth in this particular grace. Other remarks of the afternoon were inspirational and instructive. At four-thirty, the session adjourned to the Gym where a group picture of the conference was taken. This was followed by an enjoyable reception given by the Y.M.C.A.

Saturday Night.

Battalion Impresses Inspector Very Favorably

R.O.T.C. Makes Creditable Showing Before Government Inspector — Complimented for Military Appearance and Discipline

The district inspector noted and appreciated the courtesy shown him by all during his visit to the Davidson R.O.T.C. on Friday, March 12. He was also favorably impressed by the entire military performance, which certainly gave credit to the disciplined interest of the members and the efficiency of the training in the R.O.T.C. He expressed his regret that his visit was so short, but expects to forward to the office here extracts from his official report to be made in Charleston soon. Unfortunately, no information is at hand regarding Davidson's eligibility for further inspection in the nationwide contest for the R.O.T.C. honor flag. If this district inspector’s recommendation is given, the War Plans Division of the general staff will send a special inspector to make a detailed and thorough inspection of men, arms, and equipment, which will decide upon the merits of this unit for honorable mention, or if it shows up as it should for the honor flag. It is expected that the constitutional qualification of having graduates of the advanced course enter the reserve officers’ corps will be waived until next year when the course shall have been given two years. This will give Davidson a fair opportunity which must be used to win new honors for “Old Davidson.”

SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED

Sixteen Games Booked. Six Teams to be Met on Sprunt Field.

The following is a revised schedule, showing a few changes from the schedule given out a week or two ago. There will be five games (possibly six) on the Hill instead of seven as given by the first schedule. Another change is that no game will be played with Wofford.

March 24-25, Oak Ridge at Davidson.
April 7, Carolina at Greensboro.
April 8, Furman at Davidson.
April 10, N.C. State at Charlotte.
April 16, Guilford at Davidson.
April 17, Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 20, Guilford at Guilford.
April 21, N.C. State at Raleigh.
April 22, Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 23, Trinity at Durham.
April 24, Elon at Elon.
April 26, Elon at Davidson.
April 27, University of S.C. at S.C. (pending).
April 29, P.C. at Clinton.
April 30, Ga. Tech at Atlanta.
May 1, Ga. Tech at Atlanta.
May 3, Furman at Greenville.

The Saturday night session opened with devotional exercises conducted by D.M. Chalmers, president of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. Chalmers, after reading the well-known description of the judgment in the 25th chapter of Matthew, spoke of the characteristics of Christian service; that it is the little acts that count, even a cup of cold water in Christ’s name, that though you do these things for your fellow men, you do them to Him if your heart and motive are right, that true Christian service forgets itself and desires no praise from men. At the conclusion of this talk, the conference entered upon the election of officers for the coming year 1920-21. The following were elected: President, D.W. Roberts, Davidson; Vice President, Miss Sue Erwin, North Carolina College for Women; Secretary, Miss Clara Henley, Guilford College; Treasurer, Eugene Chesson, Trinity; Editing Secretary, S.E. Ayers, Wake Forest. Miss Alma Chilton of Guilford College and J.P. Price of Davidson were chosen to represent the North Carolina Union in the conference to be held in April in New York.

Dr. Lucas, a returned missionary who has served for more than fourteen years in China, gave the closing address for the evening. Throughout his talk, Dr. Lucas impressed the fact that China must be reckoned with. He showed the immensity of the country, its wealth of natural resources, its almost innumerable population, and the great awakening which is now taking place in that country. Someday, he said, “China will be one of the greatest nations in the world, we will have to reckon with her.” China is open today as she never was before to America and the Christian religion. The opportunity faces America now, if she fails, how great and how disastrous will be the results. But we must not fail, let everyone seek to know his or her part in this great (Continued on page 8)

WHY NOT BE A GENTLEMAN IN CHURCH AS ELSEWHERE?