4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL... Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND... Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE... Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES... Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS... Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL... Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE... Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP... Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS... Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL... Social Editor
M. GASTON, JR... Literary Editor
R. McILWAINE... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, A. A.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
COOPER, D. L.
MAHOOD, D. L.
ORMAND, A. C.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.
COOPER, W. J.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Acting Business Manager
Assistant Managers
C. J. MATTHEWS...

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
E. A. NASH
Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A wise old owl,
Lived in an oak,
The more he saw,
The less he spoke,
The less he spoke
The more he heard.
Why can’t we be
Like that old bird?”

With the three hard games consigned to the past, the future looks good for victorious leaps of the Wildcats.

Just one-third of the student body at the Sunday night “Y” services. Were you among the other two thirds?

“Roll old Wake Forest on the sod” is this week’s campus war cry.

The first month’s reviews are over. Are you satisfied with the start you have made on your year’s work?

A NEW CUSTOM.

It is a matter of common concurrence that the social life on this campus can hardly be termed as ideal in every respect inasmuch as the opportunities are few and far between which are presented to the students to realize the benefits that result from the association and friendship of the fair ladies of our Southland. Until this year the appearance of our feminine friends have been limited to two occasions, namely, Senior and Junior Speakings, and this session there will be only one, as Senior Speaking with its hardships for those concerned, has sunk into oblivion. We do not advocate that a student should so occupy himself with attention to the fair ones to the extent that his college work falls into neglect, but we do believe that every man of this institution should not be limited to one social event in nine months. A true college man is the well-rounded man, not just an intellectual or athletic giant. To attain this end then his social nature must receive its training as well, or else that grace and poise in the presence of ladies so characteristic of the Southern gentleman will be lacking.

As the usual fall social function is to be no more, it has been suggested that a new custom be originated in the way of an annual minstrel to be given each year before Christmas. In order to complete a program that will adequately take the place of Senior Speaking, it is further suggested that a night be set aside for a concert by the band as well as one for those students who wish to win fame in the halls of oratory. The plan would give three nights of varied and wholesome pleasure which could be made the center of an uplifting social attraction. The idea of an annual minstrel show while foreign to Davidson campus, yet is one that is in vogue at a number of other institutions. There is no doubt but that once begun this plan would become more and more popular each year, as this would give an excellent opportunity for the development of those talents along this line that are now unutilized. For the various reasons already enumerated we would like very much for this idea to be thought over and finally put into actual practice. It will mean another step forward for Davidson, this time in the betterment of her social advantages.

AN OPPORTUNITY.

Our publication has never deemed it wise to make it a policy of dictating to others as to how they should conduct and develop themselves along spiritual lines. We have our ideas and beliefs concerning the manner of living that is proper for a Christian, but at the same time in accordance with our belief in the “doctrine of religious freedom” we refrain from airing them in this manner. However, at this time we feel that it is our duty to say just a word regarding the coming of Dr. Weatherford, who will conduct the fall Evangelistic Service. He is a man of unusual ability as a forceful speaker, and this coupled with the fact that he knows college men and their problems makes him ideal for this work. Dr. Weatherford is the founder of Blue Ridge, which is so well known to all students of Southern colleges, and has just recently been made president of the

HON. WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN HEARD AT GREENVILLE.
Delivers Address on Subject “Back to God.”Y. M. C. A. College at Nashville. The gripping, earnest messages of this servant of God together with J. L. Fowle, ’16, to lead the singing will make these services outstanding in religious zeal and earnestness. Yet with all the talent and ability of these gifted men, success will not attend their effort unless YOU are there at these services. Our campus has an excellent tone, but we are not blind to some defects. Under the auspices of Greenville Woman’s College, Hon. W. J. Bryan delivered an address at the First Baptist Church, Monday evening, the 27th. With his well-known oratorical skill, Mr. Bryan spoke on the subject, “Back to God.” 

Read the exchanges in the Room. If a body writes a body, that should be eradicated. With every man attending these services, the results will be of far-reaching effect in putting our student life on a higher plane of living than ever before. Can YOU be counted on to do your part? Will you not see that the success of these meetings is a subject of your personal prayers? With every man working and praying as he should, there can be no doubt as to the uplifting effects of the work of these men. This is your chance to do something for a Better Davidson. Will you measure up to the task?

MARYVILLE COLLEGE BRASS BAND

Maryville College, of Maryville, Tenn., has organized a 16-piece band, a band as she expresses it with a capital B.—Highland Echo.

It is easy to live on love—between meals.—Highland Echo.

GUILFORD CLASS LAYS PLANS FOR MEMORIAL.

The class of '17, of Guilford College, in a reunion held during Yearly Meeting, August 7, initiated the plan of raising a memorial fund to be named for Ezra A. Moore, a member of the class who gave his life while serving as a member of the American Friends’ Reconstruction Force in France. This money is to be given to the college to be used in connection with the Biology Department, a line of work in which Ezra was most interested.—Guilfordian.

PAN-HELLENIC RULING.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has ruled that a Freshman cannot be initiated by a fraternity until he has passed three-fifths of his term's work, and that no Freshman will be allowed in a Fraternity hall except at Senior and Junior Speaking or when there are ladies present.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05, of Hamer, S.C., was on the Hill during the past week.

DON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it’s a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS