THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
B. H. ASHBY

Managing Editor
E. E. BOULWARE

Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREITENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
R. K. CRAIG
E. CUNNINGHAM
M. GILMER
P. PRICE
C. SUMMERS

Additional reporters for this issue are:
Fricker, A. F.; King, A. D.; Smith, L. L.; Davidson, R.; Gavin, C.; Denny, S. H.; Manning, F. H.; Long,
C. G.; Smith, W. C.; Ogden, D. H.; Mauze, G. W.; Sander, C. W.; Gamble, W. W.; Bailey, J. C.;
Beatty, E. A.

Business Manager
J. MATTHEWS

Assistant Manager
T. H. WILSON

Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager
C. H. LONG

Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

There is one man here who can very appropriately say to the first victim of class football, “I told you
so.”

Seven million words have been spoken in the Senate on the peace treaty and no result has been accomplished. Seventy
times seven could be said about taking lights with the same success.

After the Carolina game in Chapel Hill both squads very aptly joined in the peaceful melody, “There’s no place like
home.”

A man who missed “Y” service the past two Sundays lost some of the best practical advice he could get
anywhere. Only about half the students were there, and they were the lucky ones.

We have one consolation about the basketball trip—last year there were ten games instead of five.

CONCERNING SPANFLU.

Rumors are becoming as prevalent around here as they were during the fall of 1917, when every day a new
story would be told and put into circulation. Last Sunday there were reports current that anywhere from one up to
ten cases of influenza had been found in the college. The truth of it was that the authorities at the
infirmary had given out no statement at all and that the rumors, as always, were unfounded.

“An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,” as we have so recently heard, but becoming scared and
suspicious is not prevention, and does nothing toward helping to abate the trouble. Every cold you have now is not
influenza and every man that goes to the infirmary doesn’t have to have it. An example of this was seen
last week. One of the gossipers was asked who were some of the afflicted and he gave the names of
one or two, admitting that he knew no more. One of those sure patients he cited was seen that same
day coming from the infirmary as well and strong as he could be, having spent two days there trying to
cure a bad cold.

While there has arisen no necessity for alarm, some few precautions will help wonderfully toward the warding off of a
local epidemic. The men have been urged repeatedly not to take unnecessary trips to Charlotte or any of the nearby
towns and yet they go. Other places are infested and should be carefully avoided. Plenty of fresh air in your
rooms will also serve as a preventive. To those who room in Georgia this last advice is unnecessary.

Personal precautions are perhaps the best means of fighting the spread of the disease. Dr. McConnell has already given

Indifference to the Literary Societies.

There is a growing tendency among the college boys to neglect the literary society work. To many of the students,
the society seems to be either an object of contempt or merely a joke. Previous to this time in the
history of Davidson College for a student not to connect himself with either of the literary societies in a short
time after he had entered college, was so rare an occurrence that it was almost a novelty.

Some contend that there is considerable doubt whether they will return another year, and until they know definitely do not
think it to their advantage to join a society for the benefits obtained from that short time. This arises from
the fact of their ignorance of the profit gained from diligent work in the society. Others claim they wish first
to become accustomed to study, and when they have settled down well to work, then connect themselves with a society,
and in this way avoid being overburdened with work at the beginning. This is a wrong idea and needs no
comment, for everyone knows that society matters take little time from study, so no just ground of complaint can exist
on that score. It is really a pleasure after a week of hard and tedious labor to break the monotony
in work which is both instructive and pleasant.

Next, consider what the benefits will be if the society succeeds in performing its mission. This can best be understood
from an illustration. A young man finishes his college course. He has devoted himself to textbooks. He is graduated at
the head of his class. He is a “smart” man, and the world thinks wonders of him. The public has
use for all the talent in the country, and soon he is called upon to express his opinion in a
speech upon some subject or question. Alas, he is now upon new ground. He remembers the neglected literary society. The
time for action has come, and he is not ready. He makes the attempt, he blunders, he fails. The public
is surprised, disgusted. He now has no friendly society hall to shield him from the cold eyes of a criticizing
world.

To attempt to learn it now means to repeat the bitter experience of his last failure; and so he spends
a life of constant dread, fearing that somebody else would think that because a man was on the honor roll
at college he can put his knowledge to practical use.

College debating is an intellectual sport. Months of preparation for a struggle that itself lasts only about two hours; getting
the best speakers and arguments for effective team work, and always the anticipation of the actual clash with opponents equally
well prepared—all these elements debating has in common with athletic contests. Men are stimulated for the long,Three rules during the
uninteresting period of preparation will effectively assist. They are: “Keep your feet warm, your head cool, and stay in good
condition.” Remembering this advice, we can proceed calmly with our work, and then if anything happens, let it come. We
have done our part and can do no more.

The element of strife, the desire to win over a rival, to bring honor to the college, lifts debating above
routine study. There are over 300 institutions of college having from one to four debates a year, which means about
1,000 debating teams of three men each. At the University of Michigan, at least 60 men enter every competition, and
recently the number reached 153. This shows the interest which ought to be prevalent here.

The students themselves constitute and control a society. If there be any good derived from it, they themselves must be
the originators thereof. The society is only an instrument, as it were, in our hands, and can be of no
more benefit than any other instrument would be if we did not choose to use it. Therefore, it depends wholly
upon the action of each individual student whether or not the society shall accomplish its object.

This age calls for men who can speak their thoughts. It calls for leaders, and the leaders of the country
will not be men who spend most of their college life studying books or wasting their time loafing, but those
who see the need of a literary training and take advantage of the opportunity which the society gives, will be
the leaders. Will you not join?

THRIFT.

The national thrift week was very fittingly celebrated at Davidson by the subscribing of $12,000 for the Million Dollar Campaign.
This represents the largest donation any Davidson student body has ever made toward a single cause in such a brief
time. A liberal subscription to a cause, however, does not necessarily involve thrift. It denotes generosity and an unselfish spirit,
but real thrift is made of different stuff.

According to all authorities, thrift is not saving money, it is not making money nor hoarding wealth, nor is it
even the giving of money—it is the habit of regularly laying aside a portion of what is being received by
avoiding the useless expenditures for unnecessary things. The essential element, therefore, is the habit, and not the money.

The cultivation of this habit during the war was wonderfully successful. This was done under compulsion and now when times
are good and money plentiful, extravagance has become prevalent in every walk of life. Students have never failed to be
affected by such a strong national wave. The result is that whereas the cost of the essentials—board, tuition, etc.—used to
practically cover a student’s expenditures, it now represents for the average man about one-half of his annual outlay.

We are told that our life habits are made while we are at college or during the period which we
would normally expect to be there. To be thrifty is an essential of business success and if our ambitions are
to be completely realized this habit must be cultivated right now.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

To the Basketball Scrubs.

The scrubs get the rubs—I’ll admit they’re dubs—
But they’re game right through to the core.
They get all the knocks, they are treated like rocks,
But they grin and they ask for more.
They’re not looking for fame, but they’re playing the game,
For each is a fighter at heart.
A cheer for the scrubs who get all the rubs—
Let’s make it good from the start!

As Others See Us.

We men are apt to think we are “It,” but here are some excerpts from our female exchanges:

Women’s faults are many,
Men have only two—
Everything they say,
And everything they do.

His Photograph.

He thought he’d surely made a hit,
When for his photograph she prayed—
“Out when he calls,” she wrote on it,
And gave it to the maid.

“Do you think you could learn to love me?”
“Well, I passed Analytics.”

He—Who is that letter from?
She—What do you want to know for?
He—There you go! What do I want to know for? I declare you are the most inquisitive woman I ever
met!

Made It Unanimous.

It was married men’s night at the revival meeting.
“Let all you husbands who have troubles on your minds stand up,” shouted the emotional preacher, at the height of
his spasm.
Instantly every man in the church rose to his feet except one.
“Ah,” exclaimed the preacher, peering out on this lone sitter, who occupied a chair near the door and apart from
the others, “you are one in a million.”
“It ain’t that,” piped back this one, helplessly, as the rest of the congregation turned to gaze suspiciously at him.
“I can’t get up; I'm paralyzed.”

A Hint.

Any Fellow—“Absence makes the heart grow fonder.”
Any Girl—“So do presents!”

Truth.

“Style may be making women wear their skirts shorter, but it isn’t style that is making men wear their pants
longer.”

Mary had a Freshman,
Whose head was slick and bald,
He wasn’t very wise,
But she thought he knew it all.

Jim (at a dance)—“Ain’t I light on my feet?”
Fair Damsel—“Yes, but awfully heavy on mine.”

Doctor—Are you fellows going to let this girl run off with the blue ribbon in chemistry?
A Voice—Ladies first, Doctor.

Miss—“Yes, I’ll marry you on one condition.”
Mister—“That’s all right. I entered college on four.”

Tom—“But on what grounds does your father object to me?”
Essie Mae (sadly)—“On any ground within a mile of our house.”

“Red” Smith (to young lady on train)—“My name is Smith.”
Young Lady—“Well, who said it wasn’t.”

Soph—Have you ever had Mechanical Drawing?
Sissy Freshman—N-n-no, but I just love to paint on linen.

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES FRUITS, ETC.
See me for your feeds
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
WHITE'S MARKET
Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.
DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

Follow the old pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, or more WDC Pipes on your rack. Smoke a cool one
every time. Then you’ll know what a real smoke is. Any good dealer will furnish you with several select shapes.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
