THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

Readers on the hill should not mis- But modern science has blasted such expression, and my breath Note. By consulting the Almanac we find that Christmas comes on December 25 this year. Brady kicked goal.

Advice. Mauze says: “Be careful where you stretch.”

Advertising. C. J. Matthews got his name in the Charlotte paper last Monday.

Take It From Us! Worth, in an essay for English V, asks the question: “Should undergraduates marry?” We judge from this that Bill must be contemplating a radical step in the near future. If she is good looking, smart, and has a healthy young fortune, we say, go to it Bill. Otherwise—Nix. Brady kicked goal.

We may be fools, but we do know that the sun don’t rise and set under a certain fresh cap.

Essay on Brains. Brains are the soft whitish convoluted mass occupying the cranial cavity of a vertebrate. The quantity of brains depends on the size of the hole. Brains have numerous nicknames, aliases, and names of opprobrium given both because of similarity to other materials and because of like functions. Such appellations as saw-dust, ivory, bone, wood, and wheels are peculiarly fitting and appropriate cognomens, calling to mind at once the purposes for which they are chiefly employed.

The ancients, in their search for knowledge and explanations, assumed that in the great plan of nature all things had a purpose, so when they came to brains and could find no other reasonable use, they decided that brains must furnish the ‘3 in 1’ necessary to the proper functioning of man’s winking apparatus. Delightful deductions of Primeval Man. Brains are now known to be useless to man, in fact, they are an impediment to many. But why then are brains? Maybe another theory of our primordial ancestors (long ago disproved) can give us an answer. Nature abhors a vacuum—hence brains.

Essay on Man. Man, the genus homo, is the most versatile of the Vertebrata. He is usually a sucker, but he may be anything from a lamb to a brute. He can be a poor fish, a skunk, a hog, or a jackass at will. Woman, the genus womo, runs man a close second. Her range is anywhere from a cat or a chicken to an angel. But whatever she is, she is very often a goose. We hasten, however, to add, “but not always,” for fear of diplomatic complications. It don’t never do to say all you think. Brady failed to kick.

We sat down a while ago and tried to think of something with a point to it. We thought of pitchforks, hatpins, scissors, tacks, et cetera, but there's nothing funny about that. Someone reports that Charlie McCaskill was holding hands with a lady on the campus Monday afternoon. We move he be excused from the Bug lab he cut. Hammett kicks Brady.

Of course, I know you, Mister Eris Cassell, of the Macamac Co. My eyes bulged forth like toy balloons, my face registered a called for but

What Is Air? By 1894 every chemist thought he knew what air is. “A mechanical mixture of moisture, nitrogen, and oxygen, with traces of hydrogen and carbon dioxide,” he would explain. There was so much oxygen and nitrogen in a given sample that he simply determined the amount of oxygen present and assumed the rest to be nitrogen. One great English chemist, Lord Rayleigh, found that the nitrogen obtained from the air was never so pure as that obtained from some compound like ammonia. What was the “impurity”? In cooperation with another prominent chemist, Sir William Ramsay, it was discovered to be an entirely new gas—“argon.” Later came the discovery of other rare gases in the atmosphere. The air we breathe contains about a dozen gases and gaseous compounds.

This study of the air is an example of research in pure science. Rayleigh and Ramsay had no practical end in view—merely the discovery of new facts. A few years ago the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company began to study the destruction of filaments in exhausted lamps in order to ascertain how this happened. It was a purely scientific undertaking. It was found that the filament evaporated—boiled away, like so much water. Pressure will check boiling or evaporation. If the pressure within a boiler is very high, it will take more heat than ordinarily to boil the water. Would a gas under pressure prevent filaments from boiling away? If so, what gas? It must be a gas that will not combine chemically with the filament. The filament would burn in oxygen; hydrogen would conduct the heat away too rapidly. Nitrogen is a useful gas in this case. It does form a few compounds, however. Better still is argon. It forms no compounds at all. Thus the modern, efficient, gas-filled lamp appeared, and so argon, which seemed the most useless gas in the world, found a practical application.

Discover new facts, and their practical application will take care of itself. And the discovery of new facts is the primary purpose of the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company. Sometimes years must elapse before the practical application of a discovery becomes apparent, as in the case of argon; sometimes a practical application follows from the mere answering of a “theoretical” question, as in the case of a gas-filled lamp. But no substantial progress can be made unless research is conducted for the purpose of discovering new facts.

General Electric Company Schenectady, N.Y.

Came in immodestly short pants. “But, sir, I have never seen you before,” I managed to stammer. “Oh yes,” he said, as he looked at me with an expression like a dying calf, “I met you fifteen years ago at a velocipede tournament.” “That,” said my companion as we separated, “is Mr. Rot, the memory expert. He will show youmany more wonderful feats before the evening is over.” And indeed he did. He remembered from one telling the family history of all present. He could say backwards and forwards a list of a hundred numbers of nine digits each given at random from the audience. He knew some billion miscellaneous items of misinformation. He then explained his feat. By applying simple rules anyone could do it. I bit. The books finally came. I was just passing my work so I dived in. After digesting ten volumes I decided to go on class and try it. I astonished my professors by the rapidity and range of my answers. I told them the price of eggs in Siam and the number of little fishes in the deep blue sea. As I said, I was just passing my work. Now I flunk. What has become of that old-fashioned slide they used to have at the movies, “Ladies will remove their hats?” With whom? We can’t pick up a paper these days but what we see everything from clothes pins to steam rollers quoted at “Popular Prices.” We don't doubt but what these prices are popular with somebody—but with whom? Modern. Phineas T. Barnum was right—but times have changed. Now there are two born every minute. This Week's Bone. Morris, H. M., interviews Fricker of the Polity Club about the Poultry Club. Voice: Hock der Kaiser! Bill Miley: Hock him for all I care—you can’t get anything for him. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— A QUIET THANKSGIVING SPENT ON THE HILL Thanksgiving was a very quiet day on the hill this year. Practically all the boarding houses gave their Thanksgiving dinner on Wednesday and as a result a great many students left Davidson on the afternoon trains for a short visit home or for a good time in Charlotte. As a consequence Thursday found the campus almost deserted. The church service, which was conducted at 10 o'clock by Dr. Richards, was attended by only a few students. A great many of them had left earlier in the morning for a day of hunting on the land of some nearby acquaintance or for a long hike into the country. Some of the students, however, preferred to sleep all the morning. The post office was visited quite frequently after each mail by those looking for a box of eatables from the folks at home or possibly for something that “she” might have sent. Practically everybody got something and it certainly is a wonder that the Infirmary wasn't crowded to its fullest extent Friday morning. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— THE FORUM (Continued from page 4) begin to look for more evidence and a means of righting the wrong, or at least preventing its repetition. We all know that Davidson College is not a paradise for it is the work of human hands. It should be our purpose to make it as nearly so as we can. If we find someone who thinks more of personal glory than he does of college interests it is our duty to use every means at our disposal to see that he does not get that personal glory at the expense of worthier men. It is not our purpose to make an unjust criticism of the editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian in the columns of his paper, we do not say that this refers to him. But it does refer to his position in the editorial cited above. He should “give the other fellow credit for being as honest” in his convictions as he himself is and work for a reconciliation. We believe that the editor-in-chief is doing his best to make the Davidsonian what it should be on the hill. But he should remember that there are no minds that take a request for enlightenment as a knock. An Objector. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— EXCHANGES (Continued from page 4) Everything from murder and theft down to ‘playing hell’ is found in this edition on the front page. If the reader wishes to further investigate and read this remarkable paper he may find it in the library. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— Girl goes to dance and then goes home. She puts on some more clothes and then goes to bed. —Headline in Vanderbilt Hustler. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— A. AND M. STUDENTS HAVE CLEAN-UP DAY ON THE CAMPUS Last Wednesday all academic and military duties were suspended in order to let the students show by actual work that they really wanted to see A. and M. have a clean campus. The students inaugurated the idea and convinced the authorities that they were in earnest. The boys pitched in to work and before long the campus had taken on a new appearance. All slackers were given a form of punishment that has heretofore been confined to Freshmen. —The College Reflector. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— STUDENTS TO ANSWER COST OF EDUCATION FOR DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS A questionnaire, the purpose of which is to gather facts which will enable the Department of Economics and Sociology to undertake a study of the cost of living among the students of the University of Kentucky, has been prepared by the department and will be given to all students to fill out next week. —The Kentucky Kernel. —A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year— Mr. Carl Cathey, '20, spent a few days with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Albert Cathey. New Central Hotel In the center of the theatre and shopping district Thoroughly modern and up-to-date Where Courtesy and Service is the motto Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte Frank Gregson, Mgr. Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers in the South Agency At the Powerhouse