"Because You Only See One Rat." "I did, pretty soon I found my cellar full. They ate my potatoes. After trying RAT-SNAP I got 5 dead rats. The rest later. They pass up the potatoes to eat RAT-SNAP." If there are rats around your place, follow Mr. White’s example. Three sizes, 25c, 50c, $1.00. Sold and guaranteed by Mooney Hdw. Co. and White Drug Co.

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address LENNOX OIL & PAINT CO. Cleveland, O.

Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS
E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President.

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

A Nice Line of Pennants, College Jewelry, Watches, and Alarm Clocks
W. S. HENDERSON, The Jeweler

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1920.

Devotional News
Rev. R. D. Daffin Addresses Students at “Y” Service
Many New Facts Concerning Brazil Brought Out

The first meeting of the Y.M.C.A. in 1920 was held last Sunday night in Shearer Hall. There was a large percentage of the student body out, and Mr. Miles made a short talk on the aims of the “Y” for the spring term. The address of the evening was made by Rev. R. D. Daffin, who has been a missionary to Brazil for fourteen years. The attention of the audience was held steadily from the time Mr. Daffin began his talk till another engagement forced him to close before he had well entered upon it. Many of the students had an entirely different conception of Brazil when the talk was over; all had a more friendly and sympathetic feeling for her peoples.

The government of Brazil is modeled after that of the United States. The Brazilians are ardent admirers of their Northern sister, and always treat her citizens with respect. Probably the highest tribute ever paid the United States by another government was the declaration of war against Germany promulgated by the Brazilian president, who stated that “The Brazilian government declares war because it always follows the lead of the United States in international affairs.” The Brazilians themselves are a likable people, and although not the equal of the Anglo-Saxon race, are of a high order of intelligence. The curse of the country is its ignorance, and unless its people can be educated the nation may become a second Mexico. As long as the papacy holds sway over the common people, ignorance is bound to prevail. But let Protestantism, with its freedom and liberty-loving principles, awake the Brazilians from their stupor and superstitions, and within the present lifetime Brazil will be one of the enlightened powers of the world.

Bible Classes to Take Up Study of Missions.
During the next few months in the Bible classes the subject of Missions will be taken up. The book to be studied will be “Marks of a World Christian,” by Flemming. The classes will continue to meet every Sunday morning at 10 o’clock. Beginning about the first of February, an open forum class will be held in the Y room at the gym one night out of every week. This class will be conducted by Dr. Arbuckle. The question for study will be “Negro Problems in the South.”

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. LARZELERE, Prop.

ATTENTION, DAVIDSON BOYS
I have just opened up a Pressing Club on Main Street. Work guaranteed; GIVE ME A TRIAL. Suits called for and delivered. Scrubbing 25 cents extra. Four Suits for $1.00.
Harris Pressing Club
SAM HARRIS, Prop.

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson

CONVENTION ECHOES
“We have won the war.”God help us to win the world.”—Sherwood Eddy.

“No pursuit is secular to which God calls young men.”—John R. Mott.

“‘Self-sacrifice’ is another way of saying, ‘Self-expression.’” — Dr. Royse, of Harvard. Quoted at the convention.

“We have not been overcome of evil but we will overcome evil with good.”—Dean Browne, of Yale.

FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS. DROP IN AS YOU PASS

Why did not Christianity prevent the war? “Because we hadn’t enough of Christianity on hand in 1914 and what we did have was not the right sort.”—Dean Browne.

What of our religious responsibilities in the face of our present condition? “The worst thing you can do to England is to let her off. That’s not the law of the Kingdom.”—Dr. James Endycott, Toronto.

“In my judgment the churches of Jesus Christ in North America are preparing for the greatest revival in history.”—MacKenzie.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $22,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to go to it. We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

The Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

“No Christian fully discovers himself until he identifies himself with universal ends.”—J. Campbell White.

Dr. James J. Vance said that the church of today must through sacrifice “walk with Him the winding path to the cross-crowned hill.”

“Do not go into the foreign field to be leaders but to make them.”—Eddy.

The purpose of missions: “To make Jesus Christ known with the purpose of saving souls and gathering them into the Christian church.”—Robt. E. Speer.

A FEW LITTLE ITEMS That you can buy at the DAVIDSON HARDWARE CO. Calcimo Wall Colors, Stains and Varnish, Oils, Window Glass, Oil Stove Wicks, Electric Lamps and Fixtures.

According to Mrs. W. A. Montgomery, of Rochester, Christianity uplifts womanhood so as to “admit all mothers of man into the spiritual parliament of men.”

“We need a life released in a dead world.”—R. E. Speer.

Dr. Franklin, of Boston, quoted: “Man’s idea of God, if he could express it, would reveal the nature of the man.”—A Boston editorial caption quoted by Dr. Franklin.

“If humanity will catch the spirit of Christ on Calvary there is a cure for war.”—Dr. Franklin.

“David served his own generation by the will of God.”—White Drug Company, The Rexall Store.

“It is a crime to be a little man in such a day as this.”—Dr. Tread, Dallas, Tex.

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C. WRITES INSURANCE. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service. He wants your business.

Athletic Sport is the royal road to health. Football, soccer, basketball, hockey, skating, and other sports at popular prices. Agents Wanted where we are not Represented. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

ALEX. TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
Athletic Outfitters.
26 East 42d St. New York City
Write for our new catalog.

A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

ALUMNI DON’T FORGET PAGE NINE - OBEY THAT IMPULSE.