D. C. 27 me} THEDA VI. S.C. 0 FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON SONIAN Vol. VIII.

EU. SOCIETY ELECTS MID-TERM OFFICERS

The regular fall election of officers took place in the Eumenean Society last Saturday night. The attendance was scanty, there being little more than a quorum present. Mr. Wade (Ox) Harrell was present and between ballots gave some reminiscences of his career in the society. Those elected were: J. R. Boulware, Jr. president; P. D. Miller, vice-president; H. H. Smith, secretary, and Wm. P. Cumming, reviewer. The marshals for the various society functions were also elected. J. C. McCaskill was elected chief marshal, with McGukin, Richards, Lowry, and Mitchell as marshals on his staff. Boulware made a few remarks about the future work and aims of the society under his administration. As the society is adjourned until two weeks, no program for future performances was read.

Juniors Lead in Race for Basketball Honors

STANDING OF TEAMS.
Team. Won. Lost. Pct.
Juniors 3 0 1000
Sophs 1 1 500
Fresh 1 2 333
Seniors 0 2 000

President of S. C. University Heard With Pleasure by Davidson Students and Townspeople

Dr. W. S. Currell, former Davidson professor, president of the University of South Carolina, delivered an address last Sunday evening on the Yodel Bible Reader to the local congregation of town people and college students. Beginning with the statement that God had written three great books, Nature, Conscience, and the Bible, it was shown the Bible is really the book for us, the true guide of our lives, telling us from whence we have come, whither we are going, and how we may best serve God. The Bible is the universal book, and is sufficient for the greatest minds as well as for those of humbler gifts, for it is so deep that the profoundest intellects have not been able to plumb its depths, so lofty that the greatest minds are unable to attain its unscalable heights, and so broad that none have been able to comprehend it in its entirety.

Every real problem met by the Christian can be solved by the Bible and prayer. Are we discouraged, tired of trying? “Be not discouraged; for in due season ye shall reap if ye faint not.” Are we worried over what is before us, do we fear for the future? “Cast all your care upon Him, for He careth for you.” To really obtain the true good coming from Bible reading man must read with an open mind and with his whole soul intent upon the searching of the Scriptures; he must read carefully and definitely; he must read daily; and last of all he must read spiritually, for the things of the spirit can be only spiritually discerned.

According to Coleridge, there are three great classes of readers, and hearers may be classified likewise:

Senior-Fresh Game.

The Fresh displayed a complete reversal of form against the Seniors Friday night compared with that shown against the Sophs, and as a result sent the upperclassmen down in defeat 23 to 21. In the first few minutes of play, the Fresh opened up an attack that swept the Seniors off their feet, and it was with much difficulty that the upperclassmen succeeded in stopping them. After the first rush the Seniors settled down and the first half closed, the Fresh leading with the score 9 to 3. McConnell, of the Freshmen, made most of the counters. The second frame opened with an onslaught by the Fresh, Pitts having led the attack. After ringing up three goals in rapid succession the Fresh took a rest. The Seniors, staging a grand comeback, led by King and Heizer, brought the score up to 17 all. With five more minutes to play both teams buckled down to real basketball. The Fresh then shot three goals which seemed to startle the Seniors for a short while. With about two minutes of play left, the Seniors began a strong offense, but were unable to register more than two goals before the last whistle. The game was lacking along certain lines of spectacular play, but in spite of this, both teams put up a scrappy fight. Ormond, A. P., led the Senior offensive and was conspicuous in floor work. McConnell, for the Fresh, put up the best exhibition for the winners. The result could not be determined until the final blast of the whistle. The scoring was as follows:

Seniors. Position. Freshmen.
Ormond, A. P. (7) Pitts (7) R. F.
King (8) McDonald (4) L. F.
Heizer (6) McConnell (12) C.
Johnson McPherson R. G.
Miley DeLorme L. G.

(1) The hour-glass readers—those who receive the sand or the good and then let it all trickle away, leaving only a thin film of dust, or a faint recollection of what was there.
(2) The sponge readers—those who receive facts and from whom they may be squeezed out again, but who never use or assimilate anything.
(3) The jelly-bag readers—those who retain the dregs and let the jelly drip.

(Continued on page 2)

When Wildcats Meet Tarheels

Return of Regulars to Davidson’s Line-up Brings Added Hopes to Her Supporters

Coach Fuller’s men from Chapel Hill will meet Coach Grey’s Wildcats on a neutral field in Winston-Salem, Saturday afternoon. Both teams are in mid-season shape and this contest promises to be hard fought from start to finish, with little advantage to either side. Comparative scores show:

Univ. of N.C. 6 Wake Forest 0
Univ. of N. C. 7 Univ. of S. C. 0
Davidson 27 Wake Forest 7
Davidson 27 Univ. of S. C. 0

However, we would not be too quick to jump at conclusions, as we remember other games a little earlier in the season which ended:

Univ. of N. C. 3 N.C. State 13
Davidson 0 N.C. State 23

As these games were played in the earlier part of the season when neither team had reached their stride, and with N. Shepard, Moore, Schenck, and Poe again back in the game for the Red and Black, Davidson hopes to be able to overcome the advantage which this comparison gives the North Carolina bunch. Saturday's line-up will very likely be selected from the following men: For the University of N. C.:Griffith, Harrell, Pondexter, Jacobi, Pritchard, Hanby, Morris, McDonald, Lowe, Tenney, Spaugh, Hutchins, Kernodle, McGee, Cochrane, and Owens. For Davidson: Hammett, LaFar, Romefelt, Davis, Douglas, Brady, Poe, N. Shepard, W. Shepard, Schenck, Faison, McFaden, Cassell, Dantzler, Clary, and Carter. The Red and Black will be backed up by a large number of the student body rooters who will likely find some hearty opposition from a number of the Twin City’s supporters of the Blue and White, as well as Carolina students.

Coach Bill Fetzer’s proteges held a track meet over at Riddick Field, Raleigh, N. C., last week. One-hundred dash followed another until a total of 83 points had been rolled up against William and Mary.

Everybody get right Saturday. Beat the Tar-Baby or bust!

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

Pitts Douglass Scores First Touchdown Against South Carolina After Snatching Forward Pass and Sprinting 55 Yards. Photo by McIlwaine.

Dr. W. S. Currell Speaks

Battle Royal is Expected

Wildcat Minstrels Prepare for Action

Gobs of Fun Promised Visitors in Place of Senior Speaking

You all heard tell of “Dancin’ Mose?” No, the minstrel show hasn’t engaged him, but “Cop” Johnson, “Johnnie” Currie, and “P. D.” Mitler will be mighty good substitutes. They sure do shake a syncopated toe. The first call for volunteers was issued in chapel last week and 50 or more enthusiastic would-like-to-be-black-faced performers answered the summons. Professor Erwin, who is an experienced director along this line, called for a meeting of those thusly inclined for Thursday night to discuss and go over the general plan for the program to be followed. The management, however, does not wish to make public the series of talents as yet, so nothing but general information was available. At any rate, a selected chorus from the Glee Club, under the direction of Charlie Vance, will prove to be one of the most enjoyable features. Houston White is also training a violin-guitar orchestra, which should aid greatly toward making it an enjoyable occasion. The end men are already working on their parts, which will be of the highest order, both of jokes and other minstrel stunts. Every indication seems to point toward a very successful show. The abundant talent and excellent director ensure that the black-faced performance on the night of the 29th should be the scream of the season.

GLEE CLUB PRACTICES HARD.

The Glee Club is going strong this year with a good line of talent to select from. Some 50 or 60 answered Vance’s call and after careful consideration, about 30 were selected to continue work for a few more days. The final selection will then be made, and will include 20 or possibly 25 men. The club is working hard in an effort to get up their entire program before Christmas. They are having three rehearsals per week and have already learned about eight songs. It is also planned to have plenty of instrumental music in conjunction with the club. A saxophone quartet has already been organized and is holding regular rehearsals. The first extensive trip for the club is planned for the first of February, and will include Winthrop, Converse, Greenville Womans’, and Agnes Scott College, Brenau.

Feathers Fly in Clouds as Wildcats Rend Gamecocks

Red and Black Machine Registers Four Touchdowns

The old saying that “You can't beat brains” was fully justified by the Wildcat eleven on Saturday when they picked the Gamecocks from South Carolina, letting them down with the short end of a 27 to 0 score. Again and again the “Red and Black Machine” did just the right thing at the right time and moved steadily toward the last chalk line under the South Carolinians’ goal posts. The Davidson boys showed their versatility by gaining ground either by the aerial route, end runs, or line bucks. Two of our touchdowns came as the result of forward passes, one from an end run and one from an off-tackle play. Douglas, a two-letter man, ran the team from his position at end, and himself carried over two touchdowns. The first one was a pass which he caught on D. C.’s 45-yard line and then ran the rest of the way through a broken field with the speed of a frightened antelope. The interference of the Davidson men on end runs was the prettiest that has been seen in this part of the country for over a decade. Every time the man with the ball went around end he had four or five men in front of him who swept away all tacklers and gave the runner a chance to pass over several white lines. Cassell and Clary were outstanding in this department of the game, rarely failing to make first down when called upon to skirt the flanks. For line bucking and off-tackle plays, McFadden is the man who pushed the Gamecocks back. This win on Sprunt field keeps the Wildcat record unspotted as far as defeats on the home field are concerned. The team played the best brand of football it has put up this year and presented a driving offense and an impregnable defense to their opponents. Only once did the boys from Columbia threaten and that was right at the beginning of the game. Gressette tried a drop kick and missed and from then on it was our game in the Gamecocks’ territory. Hammett, the leader of the winning team, was the outstanding star on the (Continued on page 8)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Thursday—4:00 p.m., American Legion awards medals. 7:15 p.m., Movies: “The Valley of the Giants.”
Friday—8:00 p.m., Junior-Senior basketball game. 8:45 p.m., Davidson Club meeting.
Saturday—Morning train leaves for Winston-Salem. 3:00 p.m., Wildcats vs. Tar Heels. 7:30 p.m., Good time in general. 9:00 p.m., Train leaves for Davidson.
Sunday—10 a.m., Bible Class. 7:30 p.m., Professor Metcalf addresses “Y” and town people at Presbyterian Church.
Monday—7:15 p.m., Junior Literary Society. 8:00 p.m., Soph-Fresh basketball.
Tuesday—8:00 p.m., Third Lyceum number: Yodlers.
Wednesday—8:00 p.m., Junior-Soph Reporters.