CLASS BASKETBALL ° FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. VIII.

CAPT. HEARN TO RECEIVE PROMOTION SOON

Captain Hearn, commandant of the R.O.T.C. unit, has successfully passed the examination for promotion and will be given the rank
of major as soon as the first vacancy occurs. The many friends that he has made in his two months’
stay on the Hill will be pleasantly surprised to learn of his promotion. While all recognize his capabilities, they also
know that promotions at this stage are hard to get and an officer must be of the first order to
be even considered. The commission, when it comes, will probably date back to July 1 of this year. The date
is not certain, but the promotion is almost certain, as the captain stands number 291 out of a list of
409 vacancies. Through his experience at West Point and in the world war, Captain Hearn is well qualified to hold
down any position the government may entrust to him. The students offer him all the possible best wishes and congratulate
him on his good luck.

Juniors and Seniors Open Class Basketball

Strenuous Race Expected for Championship Honors

The interclass basketball schedule will get under way on Friday. As an opener, the Junior-Senior battle on October 29 will
be a corking good battle. The schedule has been arranged and the teams have been at practice for some time.
By the time for the first whistle, the contestants should be in ship shape condition.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Wildcats Overcome Spiders In Hard-Fought Game

Spratt Moore Hits Line for Only Touchdown of Contest

Hugh Grey Ably Fills Position of Head Coach

Most of the men playing on last year’s teams are out again, but several rules have been passed excluding a
few stars. No basketball “D” man can play nor a football man on the present squad under Coach Grey. Last
year’s championship was won by the Sophs and the present Senior class was the runner-up. The game between these two
classes this week, then, should be most interesting. From Friday, the date for the games runs up to November 23.
This gives a well-balanced schedule which will test each team and at the same time give them the desired advantages
of a justly long season. Practice for the Freshmen has revealed several promising players among the aspirants for positions. It
will well be remembered, too, that the class of '23 put out a creditable team last season. The showing of
these two teams will be closely watched in their game on November 1. The schedule is as follows:

Junior-Senior—October 29.
Soph-Fresh—November 1.
Junior-Soph—November 3.
Senior-Fresh—November 5.
Junior-Fresh—November 8.
Soph-Senior—November 10.
Junior-Senior—November 12.
Soph-Fresh—November 13.
Junior-Soph—November 17.
Senior-Fresh—November 19.
Junior-Fresh—November 22.
Soph-Senior—November 23.

Chapel has been held regularly at Davidson for 84 years. From 1837-1838 in the dining room of Steward’s Hall (just
north of the present library). 1838-1860 in the “Old Chapel” (the original Shearer Hall, which faced south). 1860 for a
short while in the commencement hall of Chambers. From then until 1902 in the “Old Chapel.” 1902-1920 in Shearer Biblical
Hall.

Guide Wildcats

Coach Grey has the absolute confidence of every Davidson man. He has won this by his own record and through
his success as a coach. While a student here, “Wooley” won many honors for himself. He won three letters in
both football and track. In his senior year, he was picked for a guard position on the all-American team, thus
being the first Davidson man to win this honor. In picking him for all-Southern, ‘17, Jemison says: “At right guard
we have placed Grey, of Davidson, in our opinion, the best defensive player of the year, the best guard of
the season and on a par with the other all-star linemen that we have selected, a heavy chap, weighing 188
pounds, but as fast as most of the backfield men; a man who can punt, buck, back up the line,
tackle fiercely, in brief, everything that a good lineman should be.” He was also the mainstay of the track team
and holds the college record in two events. In recognition of his untiring efforts on the athletic field, in his
junior year he was elected vice-president of the Athletic Association. In the following year, he was elected president of that
organization and gained new honors for himself and his alma mater. After finishing his college course, he was called to
be director of athletics at Bailey Military Institute. Taking hold of a bunch of raw, inexperienced boys, he molded them
into the team that won the prep school championship of South Carolina. He repeated this success last year. This year
he took the leadership of the Wildcats and has developed them into a smooth running outfit that has now struck
its stride and is sweeping all before it. Through his ceaseless efforts and unreserved devotion to the Red and Black,
(Continued on page 8)

OX OR HARDING!

PROMINENT MAN OF LETTERS TO ADDRESS STUDENTS

Professor Metcalf, of the University of Virginia, Here Nov. 14-16.

Prof. J. C. Metcalf, instructor in English at the University of Virginia, will be on the Hill from Sunday, November
14, to Tuesday, the 16th, inclusive. To the men here who know Professor Metcalf, he needs no introduction, but for
the benefit of those who have not enjoyed that privilege, a few facts of interest might be noted. Professor Metcalf
is considered one of the foremost educators in America. Not only as a teacher, but as a writer, does he
rank high. Most students have studied his History of English Literature in high school, and recognize it to be a
work both interesting and well written. In fact, he is noted for his ability to make interesting whatever subject he
handles. Davidson men are especially fortunate in that while here he will address the students on three occasions. On Sunday
night, when he will speak to the combined “Y” and regular church service, his subject will be “A Study in
the Parables,” which will be handled in both the literary and religious manner. On Monday night, he will address an
assembly of students and townspeople in Shearer Hall, and at the assembly period Tuesday, he will give a short talk
to the students. While he is here, Professor Metcalf will meet with the various English classes to discuss points of
interest relative to their work. The students should feel specially honored in having such a man as Professor Metcalf among
them, and it is expected that he will be given a regular Davidson reception. It is up to the men
to turn out and greet him; assuredly it will be worth their time.

More Facts About Our College

The history of Davidson is one of growth. Starting with a student body of 66 and a relatively small faculty,
she has grown step by step to the grand old college as it is known today. The present students themselves
have witnessed large additions to the student body and faculty, but the college has just begun to wake up to
the need of the times and D. C. is expected to expand more in the next 10 years than she
has done in the last 50. Davidson was founded in 1836-’37 with 66 students. The followingis a record of her
growth since that time:
'40-'41—63; decrease 4.5 per cent.
'45-'46—80; increase 26.9 per cent.
'50-'51—61; decrease 23.7 per cent.
'55-'56—88; increase 44.2 per cent.
'60-'61—87; decrease 1.1 per cent.
'65-'66—29; decrease 66.6 per cent.
'70-'71—112; increase 286.2 per cent.
'75-'76—88; decrease 21.4 per cent.
'80-'81—117; increase 32.9 per cent.
(Continued on page 8)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.
Friday—7:15 p.m., Movies: Douglas McLean and Doris May in "Twenty-three and a Half Hours Leave."
8:45 p.m., Davidsonian Reporters’ meeting.
Friday—9:00 p.m., Seniors vs. Juniors.
Saturday—3:30 p.m., Wildcats vs. The Citadel, Wearn Field, Charlotte.
Sunday—6:30 p.m., Dwight Chalmers Addresses “Y.”
Monday—7:15 p.m., Junior Literary Societies.
Monday—8:00 p.m., St. Claire Sisters, in Second Lyceum Number.

Richmond Strong on Defensive
It was last Saturday in the capital of Virginia, that the Red and Black Wildcat with one gentle swipe of
his paw, tore the Spider web and gallivanted off with a 7 to 0 victory. The Wildcat did not display
his usual ferociousness, but played tenderly with the Spider until aroused by the strategy and traps of the web. Then
did he rear back and bound around the edges of the web, and though not tearing it to pieces, he
disarranged it to that extent, where the tiniest Wildcat slipped through for the coveted victory.

SELECTED TENNIS TEAM
After many sets of hard, brilliant tennis, four men won their way to the semifinals and earned themselves a berth
on the team that is to represent the college this fall. This quartet is composed of Bradley, Cunningham, A. C.
Ormond, and T. M. Morris. Each of these men has a hard serve and plays a consistent game; they will
be a hard nut to crack. They are practicing every afternoon and are getting into mid-season form. The details of
this fall's matches have not yet been definitely decided, but they either will take a three-day trip or will have
some college here for a tournament.

R. O. T. C. Receives Additional Equipment
Davidson’s Battalion Now Prepared for Major Operations
The R. O. T. C. has received from the G. S. D. at Atlanta a shipment of the auxiliary weapons
of the infantry. With this new equipment Davidson can put in the field a war strength company almost completely equipped.
The most interesting weapon received was a Poole 37mm. rifle. This gun—the deadly “one-pounder”—can be fired at the rate of
20 accurate shots per minute. Its accurate range is about one mile. The 37mm. rifle is used in either direct
or indirect fire with high explosive or solid shell. The trench mortar that was sent is of the well-known Stokes
type. Because of the high angle of the fire its accurate range is only 300 yards. Only high explosive shell
is used. The two Browning machine guns are of the most modern type. These guns are capable of firing 2,000
shots per minute. It is interesting to note that the tripods of these guns were made by the “Crown Cork
and Seal Co.” A bit out of their regular line, it would seem. The Browning automatics—of which four were sent—fire
“only” 500 shots per minute. But this seeming discrepancy is overcome by their great mobility, for a crew of two
men can carry one anywhere. Uncle Sam did not see fit to send any ammunition. So for the present the
battalion will have to content itself with the theoretical working of its new weapons. But it hopes that ere long
G. S. D. in its infinite wisdom will send in a few blanks at least and then—a little fun.

In the first half, while Old Sol looked down with her autumn glare, and while the worthy supporters of Richmond
cheered their team, this crimson and ebony animal called the Davidson Wildcat struck at the center of the Richmond Spider
web, but found it too closely woven to make appreciable headway. In the second half, though, with a gentle, ah
how tender and caressing a stroke, did this Wildcat tear the outer portion of the web to pieces and skirt
its ends at will and when within striking distance, “Midget Wildcat Moore” killed the firmly entrenched Spider by plunging over
the line for a touchdown. The game was the cleanest of the year, there being only four penalties all told.
Davidson was set back five yards twice for delaying the game, and holding once cost her 15 more. Richmond's only
penalty was five yards for offside. Both teams played with every ounce of fight they could muster, but it was
clean and legitimate scrapping. Davidson opened up a line plunging game but after they had driven the Spiders back for
a couple downs, all future attempts to gain through the line were futile. Time and again the Red and Black
hurled itself against the Richmond line, but no substantial gains were made. At the last of the first half, the
Red and Black disclosed her weak spots at the ends, and beginning the second half with a series of end
runs and forward passes, the Wildcats pushed over a score in five minutes.

In the first quarter Richmond received the kickoff, ran it to mid-field and kicked. This was the nearest she came
to the Wildcat goal during the entire quarter. In the second quarter, Davidson missed an easy chance to score when
a neat pass to Schenck placed the ball on Richmond's 12 yard line. Three line plays realized seven yards and
Moore dropped back to the 26 yard line to attempt a field goal. The ball was low by 10 feet.
The rest of the quarter found the ball in mid field, neither side threatening. In the second half, Davidson received
the kickoff and aided by a 28 yard skirt around end by Poe, soon sent the ball across for a
touchdown. Brady kicked goal. The rest of the game was played in midfield, with one exception. Early in the third
quarter when Davidson was forced to her own 12 yard line. She soon got out of this predicament, however. The
superb running of Shepherd, N., featured for the winners. He gained 142 yards during the game and pulled several spectacular
runs good for 15 yards. Spratt Moore also exhibited some neat broken field running, getting away once for a neat
15 yard gain. McFaden had the misfortune of being knocked out on the fifth play after he had gained 22
yards on an end run, he hurt his ankle in being tackled. Carter and Bethel, in the Richmond line, and
Zeigler, of their backfield, starred.

First Quarter.
McFaden kicked to R. C. 18 yard line, Broaddus returning to 42 yard line. Snead got 4, Zeigler 2, Towill
2. Richmond kicked to D. C. 13 yard line, Mc- (Continued on page 8)

A group of young ladies from Charlotte High School accompanied by Mrs. P. S. Gilchrist, were spectators of the game
Saturday afternoon. The young ladies were Misses Edith and Roberta Walker, Maria and Augusta Rose, and Martha Lee. R. L.
Dick, ex-'23, was a spectator of the game Saturday.

WHICH WILL IT BE?
