| J. M. Dunlap, Editor. If Charlie Vance and Joe Walker, while communicating with their spirit friends, would get some
good “spots” on our profs we would be much obliged. Host, to John Gaston (after pouring him three glasses of
water): “If you were much drier you'd be dusty.” “Trusting to luck” he went on class: Oh my, but this
story is sad— He had his luck, but there alas, The luck that he had was bad. Seize your opportunity
while you may. Birchie Romefelt lost a good chance to be a hero at Saturday’s ball game. This Week’s Bone.
You pulled it, looking for it. The hieroglyphics which adorn the tank bear mute witness to the fact that April
1 was well named. When your girl “kicks” you, you may at least be thankful that the government doesn’t issue
her shoes. Military Life A La Fresh. I. Bayonets, when not fixed, are always carried in the watch-pocket. II. Prompt
obedience to commands shows submergence of individuality. Assert your personality. III. Keeping step is a very vicious practice and should
never be engaged in. IV. Always talk and glance around when at attention, otherwise you may get lost. My general
orders are: 1. To take charge of this post and immediately go to sleep. 2. To walk my post in
almost any manner so long as it does not run away from me. 3. To violate all orders I am
instructed to enforce. 4. To quit my post whenever I feel like it. 5. To conceal, disobey and keep all
orders from everyone. 6. To talk to everyone at all times, even if I find it necessary to leave my
post to find the second party. 8. In case of ladies on the campus to give the alarm. 10. In
cases not covered by instructions to make instructions. 11. To salute only when ordered to do so. 12. To be
especially careful at night to always retire at an early hour and to allow no one to disturb my slumber.
Say what you please, O love sick friends About only one called “dearest.” But facts point out that all depends
Upon which one is the nearest. Our idea of an optimist is the fellow who goes to the depot at
11:50 and expects to see the “June-bug.” How to Win a Maiden’s Affection or Thusly You May Make Your Op.
I. Tell her she is the only girl you ever think of and at the same time imply that your
affections cover the town like the Atlanta Journal and the dew cover Dixie. II. Give her the idea that you
have far more sense than you really possess, otherwise your case is hopeless. III. Take another girl out on some
occasion occasionally: a basketball game for instance. This is productive of jealousy—that “sine quo non” of all love affairs. IV.
Write to her sometimes and do better along the line of spelling than we are doing on this: also use
a less punk pen. V. Make use of the paper of every organization to which you, or your friends, belong,
or can steal. VI. Try to tell the truth in your letters. It inspires confidence. VII. When calling take candy
when possible: also do not stick the box in your pocket upon leaving. VIII. Do not wear Hard Boy shoes:
also leave before 1 o’clock. IX. If (1920) she should propose, tell her to file her application to be considered
along with the rest. Good News For Any Editor. (Including Ours.) The Editor died and went to Heaven. But stood
outside the gate, Because he hadn’t the nerve to knock. And thought that he could wait Till some other mortals
came along; He'd see what they would do, And if they entered the pearly gate He thought he might slip
thru. He watched the vast procession pass Up the portals wide; While Peter told some they were up too high,
And others he took inside. The editor, weary of waiting so long, Finally got in line, To see if Peter
would accept him. He heard the sweet-voiced angels sing, His eyes filled to the brim. He shivered and shook in
agony, Knowing his chances were slim. “Aha!” said Peter, “an editor here?” (He laughed with pure delight) “Why, certainly, you
may come right in, For all you did was write.”—Chara-de-lix. You who dislike our humble verse Try your hand—it might
be worse. “The Sling.” It might be worse we must agree But fail to see how. EXCHANGES (Continued from page
4) ENGLISH LITERATURE 1. Who wrote Gray’s “Elegy written in a Country Churchyard?” 2. Who wrote “Hamlet?” 3. Do you
consider Hamlet insane? (Answer yes or no. Give no reasons.) 4. Do you like Lamb’s dissertation on Roast Pig? 5.
Who is your favorite English Author? Maryville College—The Highland Echo. ANATOMICAL QUERIES. Where can a man buy a cap for
his knee? Or a key to the lock of his hair? Can his eyes be called academies, Because there are
pupils there? In the crown of his head what jewels are found? Who travels the bridge of his nose? Can
he use when shingling the roof of his mouth, The nails on the ends of his toes? Can the crook
of his elbow be sent to jail? If so, what could he do? How does he sharpen his shoulder blades?
I’ll be hanged if I know, do you? Can he sit in the shade of the palms of his hands?
Or beat the drum of his ears? Does the calf of his legs eat the corn on his toes? If
so, why not grow corn on his ear? —The Log. TALE OF A STAMP. I am a stamp— A postage
stamp— A two-center. Don’t want to brag, But I was never licked.that could be. Most any school kid, over ten
Could better use the poet’s pen.
So take a bit of advice frank
And cease to “Sling” us verse so rank,

The beauty of writing for the Peanut Parcher is that you are not expected to tell the truth. The bigger
the lie the longer the laugh.

“They are putting new boards in the side of that old warehouse.”
“Yes and the rent will be made worse.”
“Miss Smith, let me introduce Mr. Hanrahan.”
“Glad to meet you Mr. Hand, and do you know I have a brother named Henry too.”

He sat beneath the full moon fair,
His darling in his arms;
He loudly praised her purchased hair
And artificial charms.
But fake of fakes—a breeze arose,
The sky began to leak
The hair was blown from off her head
The paint washed off her cheek.
Moral: Keep your girl out of the rain.

Dad—“What are you taking at college this year.”
Son (drawling)—“Why I’m taking Education.”
Dad—“Step to the woodshed young man—you may be smart but you can’t get fresh with me.”

Licked, cline.”
Except once;
By a gentleman, too,
He put me on
To a good thing;
It was an envelope—
Perfumed, pink, square.
I've been stuck on
That envelope
Ever since.
He dropped us—
The envelope and me—
Through a slot in a dark box;
But we were rescued
More’s the pity.
He hit me an awful
Smash with a hammer.
It left my face black and blue.
Then I went on a long
Journey
Of two days,
And when we arrived—
The pink envelope and me—
We were presented to
A perfect love
Of a girl,
With the stunningest pair
Of blue eyes
That ever blinked.
Say, she’s a dream!
Well, she mutilated
The pink envelope
And tore one corner
Of me off
With a hairpin;
Then she read what
Was inside
The pink envelope.
I never saw a girl blush
So beautifully!
I would be stuck
On her if I could.
Well, she placed
The writing back
In the pink envelope,
She kissed me,
Oh, you little godlets!
Her lips were ripe
As cherries
And warm
As the summer sun.
We—
The pink envelope and me—
Are now
Nestling snugly
In her bosom!
We can hear
Her heart throb;
When it goes fastest
She takes us out
And kisses me.
Oh, say,
This is great!
I'm glad I’m a stamp—
A two-center.
—Baylor University Lariat.

CONSOLATION.
The world is so full of the wonderful ladies
Who smile with the radiance, known of the sun;
The world is so full of remarkable ladies
Who wield the combined power of heaven and hades
It’s really absurd to go daft about one.

If Fate hands the ardent admirer a twister
And “she” throws him down with a dull, sick’ning thud,
He ought to forget her and go find her sister—
For sisters she has by the millions, oh! mister,
Each is as charming and pretty a bud.

And now some one has said, and there’s quite a lot in it,
That women, like trolley cars, keep going by;
If one hides her heart so you really can’t win it
Another will be right along in a minute—
You only lose time when you mope and you sigh.

So be not discouraged at her farewell letter,
Cheer up, saddened swain, there is hope still for thee.
The one you went batty about when you met her
You're probably lucky that you didn’t get her,
And there are more girls than the sands of the sea.
—trx.

As the bleachers would have it, we may have a “Cop,” a “Caruso,” a “Vernon,” etc., but we don’t boast
of a “Grandpa” as the Oak Ridge nine. (Apologies to Mr. Cox).

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
April 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th
The Sensation of the Season
“Blind Husbands”
If You Miss This Wonderful PHOTODRAMA
You Will Regret It But Once!
And That Will Be All The Time
Note the Date
April 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th

Success? It is against embarrassing errors in spelling, pronunciation, and poor choice of words. Know the meaning of war terms,
increase your efficiency, which results in power and success.

WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in
daily use by hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over.
400,000 Words. 2700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations. $8,600 Biographical Entries. 80,000 Geographical Subjects.
GRAND PRIZE, (Highest Award) Panama-Pacific Exposition.
REGULAR and INDIA-PAPER Editions.
WRITE for Specimen Pages, FREE Pocket Maps if you name this paper.

G. & C. The Bank of Davidson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent
Your business is solicited
John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash.
J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. J. Q. Beard, Assistant Cashier

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.
The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.
Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. Expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or
information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

A FULL LINE OF PARKER “LUCKY CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Troy Tailored Soft COLLARS
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by
The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.
