THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 16, 1920.

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
J. P. Stowe & Co., Agents

LITERARY NEWS
NO MEETINGS OF LITERARY SOCIETIES LAST WEEK
Conf Curtailment of Programme—Important Meeting of Eu. Society Next Saturday.

The Saturday night section of the Eumenean Society did not hold a meeting at the last regular time on account
of the Volunteer Conference, but it plans to make a comeback at the Monday night section, when the two sections
meet jointly on next Saturday night, March 20. At this time the Monday night boys will have the negative side
and the Saturday nighters will advance the argument of the affirmative in perhaps the last contest between the two this
spring. Good debaters are chosen for both sides and a lively time is assured. In addition to the various speeches,
there will be an initiation of several new members and some other very important business to be put before the
society, and a large attendance is urged. The program for Saturday night is:
Affirmative, by Saturday night section: Harrell, W. H.; Cunningham, C. E.; Davidson, T. T.
Negative, by Monday night section: Hollandsworth; Craig, R. R.; Bitzer, R.

PEACE ORATORICAL CONTEST PRELIMINARIES ABOUT APRIL FIRST
Prof. F. S. Blair, of Guilford College, was on the Hill last Thursday in the interest of the coming Peace
Oratoricals. He met with some of the students, who intend to enter the contest, in the parlor of the Library.
A large number should enter the preliminaries and anyone who wishes information about the contest can get the same from
D. M. Chalmers. The plan of the contest is the same as heretofore. The orations must be on some one
of the many phases of peace or plans to try to educate the world to a saner, more civilized, Christian
method of settling international difficulties than by the arbitrament of war. The donors of the state and national prize request
that Prussian militarism be condemned.

NOTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
Fresh-Soph Declaimers’ Contest will be held in the Eu. hall on Thursday night, March 18, at 7:30 o'clock. All contestants
of the Eu. Society are urged to be there promptly at the hour.
Chas. A. McGirt.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA HONORS FIVE NEW MEN
The Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity initiated the following men last Thursday night: L. G. Calhoun, ’20; L. B. Schenck, ’21;
J. E. Cassell, ‘21; B. W. Romefelt, '21, and A. L. Currie, ’21. Omicron Delta Kappa was organized at Washington
and Lee in 1914 to fill the evident need of some society to give recognition to men who are leaders
in college activities. The Delta Circle at Davidson was established in May, 1917, when the Order of Gryphons, a local
society for the same purpose, was merged into O. D. K. The following men are members of Omicron Delta Kappa:
Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Prof. Macon Reed, Mr. F. L. Jackson, L. L. McAlister, S. H.
Askew, A. D. McArn, W. F. Hall and D. M. Chalmers.

AMERICANS TO SHOW LOVE FOR FRANCE
Davidson Students to Have Opportunity of Contributing to Fund for Erection of Monument.

On July 4, 1885, the United States celebrated the birthday of our liberty. Gifts came from all parts of the
world in token of friendship, but the one gift which will never be forgotten and has become such a part
of our free American spirit, was the giant statue in New York harbor — “Liberty Enlightening the World.” This was
the gift of the people of France to the people of America. The “people” did not mean the government of
France. The money came from rich and poor—from the eager hands of little children—from the palsied hands of old men—from
the widow—from the orphan. Each gave a share. On the bridge across the Marne, a village carpenter placed a rule
cross. It was there, in September, that the German wave was stopped by General Joffre and the handful of French
soldiers.Of militarism be not advocated as a means tending to peace. The length of the speeches is to be limited
to 13 minutes.

The winners in the local contest will compete with the winners from the other colleges of the state. A first
prize of $75 and a second prize of $50 are offered in the state contest. The contestants are to be
given free entertainment in whatever city the state contest is held. The winner in the state contest has his speech
entered in the national contest together with the winning speeches from the other states. A prize of $50 is offered
for the best of these papers.

The preliminaries are to be held about the first of April. The state contest takes place on May 7. The
place for the state contest is not yet definitely decided upon but will be announced in the near future.

POLITY CLUB TO HEAR PROF. KIMBALL TONIGHT

Tonight at 7:30 p.m., in Shearer Hall, Prof. Everett Kimball will speak to the Davidson Polity Club. He will probably
speak on some phases of the United States and her foreign affairs. Professor Kimball comes from Smith College, Northampton, Mass.,
where he has had much success in his line of work. His lectures have been heard with great interest by
the clubs of many southern colleges this spring, which gives promise of an excellent talk here. He comes with the
reputation of being quite an authority on the subject which he has chosen for his lecture, so the audience will
no doubt be much enlightened concerning some of our country’s most perplexing problems. The members of the club are expecting
a large attendance on this occasion.

French soldiers under his command. We now realize that this was the high tide of German invasion and that the
Battle of the Marne took its place on the pages of history as one of the world’s great decisive battles.
It is fitting that we should pay a tribute to France, and so, following her own example, some of our
wealthiest and most influential men have announced the project of placing a beautiful monument on the banks of the Marne.
The distinguished American sculptor, Frederick MacMonnies, is now working on making sketches for the work. He is particularly well suited
for this position as he has become prominent as a sculptor in both France and America. During the war, he
turned his studio, near the Marne, into a hospital. From this fact, he is best suited to interpret the friendship
of America and her admiration for the heroic spirit of France.

This monument will not be the gift of a few; the committee wants it to be from the masses, and
so it has given us the opportunity to share in this gift. It is not the purpose to urge anyone
to give. The A. E. F. students will be around and those who care to will pay 10 cents to
these students. A memorial book containing the names of all cities, towns, societies, and colleges will be placed in a
museum in the base of the statue. We want Davidson College to have her name inscribed in this book as
a lasting memorial to our dead in France and our appreciation of the great work of France in the war.
Posters and pamphlets will be distributed as soon as they arrive, telling briefly the story of the project. Let us
all do our duty as each individual sees it in helping to pay for “America’s Gift to France.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

The sale of high-grade maps as developed by the NATIONAL MAP CO., INDIANAPOLIS, IND., offers a real opportunity. J. K.
Foster, ex-‘21, sold 173 maps his first two weeks. Profit $259.00.

The Furniture looks like New—and I did it all myself with Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC. It’s so easy and inexpensive to
restore old furniture, floors, and woodwork to their former beauty and newness—simply apply one coat of Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC on
an old finish and you'll be delighted with the fine results. Pee Gee RE-NU-LAC comes in 20 Natural Wood and
Enamel Colors, White, Gold, and Silver, 5c up. Ask for Color-Card.

THE KEENEST PALATE CANNOT DETECT “THE DIFFERENCE”

MINNEHAHA PALE and SPECIAL

It is NOT a “near beer” that ferments AFTER drinking, but a thoroughly fermented LAGERED BREW aged in the vats
four months; made from barley and hops ONLY, just like the brews of forty years ago; but afterward by our
new Patent Vacuum Process (First operated Nov. 5, 1919, by us. Instead of COOKING by BOILING), the high wines ONLY
are removed, and not one atom of brewing flavor, snap, or aroma taken out: hence it is delightfully EXHILARATING.

SUPPLY YOURSELF WITH MINNEHAHA WITHOUT DELAY.

GOLDEN GRAIN JUICE COMPANY
Minneapolis, U. S. A.

We ship to any part of the U.S.
