THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Congressman-elect Homer L. Lyon, who will represent the Sixth District of North Carolina in the next Congress, has announced the
appointment of John Allen Thames, '18, as his private secretary. Thames has been in Washington since his discharge from the
army, and for the last eighteen months has been secretary to Congressman Nicholls, of South Carolina. Mr. Nicholls did not
offer for re-election and will retire on March 4 next, when Thames will assume his duties with Mr. Lyon. He
is also studying law in Washington, and is now in his second year at Georgetown University Law School. Last year
he won the prize that is offered each year to the best debater in the law school.

Rev. J. E. Hemphill, ‘07, Superintendent of Home Missions in Atlanta Presbytery, has found it necessary to secure and use
an automobile truck in his distribution of religious literature.

James Irwin Groome, ex-'18, is in business at High Point, N. C.

Carrol E. Patterson, ex-’20, has, since his withdrawal from war service, located at Los Angeles, California.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Messrs. W. P. Cumming, '18, O. C. Williamson, '18, and E. H. Hamilton, '20, are on the Editorial Staff of
the Union Seminary Review.

Rev. R. A. McLeod, ‘09, of Manchester, N. C., will be married on December the first to Miss Lucy Worth
Currie, sister of A. L. Currie, ‘21.

George Howard, '12, of Tarboro, N. C., will be married to Miss Adelaide Van Noppen, of Greensboro, N. C., on
December first; the wedding to take place in the First Presbyterian Church.

Latta Law, '16, is located in Cuba, his address being Obispo 53, Havana.

D. M. L. McDonald, ’12, is in the office directing the tuberculosis work at Columbia, S. C., his health only
permitting him to work a part of the day.

Dr. J. Sam Mitchener, ‘09, is on the staff of the State Board of Health publications at Raleigh, N. C.
A poster prepared by Dr. Mitchener was reproduced in the Survey (New York) of last week.

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, who with Mrs. McFadyen and the children are at home from China for their second
furlough, spent the week-end at Davidson and made two strong addresses. They are in charge of a hospital at Hsuchoufu,
China.

DR. McFADYEN DOING IMPORTANT WORK FOR CHINA

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, a visitor and speaker on the hill last Sunday, is an alumnus of whom Davidson
may be justly proud. He was one of the leading athletes in his class, easily making the football, basketball and
tennis teams. He was one of the main bulwarks of the football team at the time when inter-collegiate football was
beginning, making his place easily every year. He was also a famous track man, winning three first places (pole vault,
hundred yards, and hammer throw) and two seconds in a single meet (his Junior year). He graduated in 1899 from
the school of medicine which was incorporated in Davidson at that time, and took various post-graduate courses until 1904 when
he went out to China under the Southern Presbyterian mission board. He has been stationed in Hsuchoufu, the northernmost of
our stations, where he has been able, with the help of his wife and one trained nurse, to build up
one of the most efficient of all our hospitals in foreign lands. His patients number about 15,000 every year. Dr.
McFadyen is of especial interest to Davidson men because he is supported in his work by the local church.

DAVIDSON STUDENT BEREAVED BY DEATH OF FATHER

H. C. McCallum, Jr., ‘23, of White Springs, Fla., was called home suddenly last Wednesday on account of his father’s
death. The whole student body sympathizes with “Mac” over his great loss, and everyone hopes that he will soon return
to take up his college course.

The following alumni saw the scrubs in action at Pinehurst last week: Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99; A. A. Campbell,
ex-'22; Ernest Campbell, ex-'19; E. T. McKeithen, ex-’06; Rev. Alexander, '13; J. E. McKeithen, '18; J. G. Sloan, ex-'22; “Bing”
Davis, ex-’22, and Crisp, ex-'23, both of them playing on the State team. J. M. Keith, J. E. Weldon and
J. H. McKeithen also saw the game.

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Peeler, the father and mother of “Fresh” Peeler, and his sister, Mrs. R. L. Miller
and her husband were on the hill Saturday for a short visit.

TAKES HIGH RANK IN EDUCATIONAL WORK

Dr. E. B. McGilvary Has Contributed Much to the Cause of Higher Learning.

Evander Bradley McGilvary, '84, was born in Bangkok, Siam, on July 19, 1864. He was the son of Rev. Daniel
and Mrs. Sophia R. McGilvary, pioneer missionaries to the Siamese. He lived inThat country, where he received his preparatory training,
until he reached his teens. Then he came to the United States and entered Davidson College in 1881, graduating from
that institution in 1884 as one of the leading men of his class. After his graduation from Davidson, he entered
Princeton University, from which institution he received his Master's degree in 1888. He was a fellow of Princeton Theological Seminary
in 1889 and 1890. He received his Ph.D. from the University of California in 1897. Dr. McGilvary, on June 16,
married Elizabeth Allen Paton. He became a translator for Presbyterian Foreign Missions in Siam from 1891 to 1894. He was
a Graduate Student-Instructor and Assistant Professor at the University of California from 1894 to 1899. Sage Professor of Ethics at
Cornell University from 1899 to 1905. He has been Professor and Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at the University
of Wisconsin since 1905. Mr. McGilvary is a member of the American Philosophy Association (Pres. '12 and '13) and of
the Western Philosophy Association (Pres. '14 and '15). He translated Matthew, Luke, John, and The Acts into the Lao dialect
in 1892. He is a contributor to New International Encyclopedia, International Year Book, Mind, Philosophical Review, Psychological and Scientific Methods,
and many other great books in this line. In the line of Education, Davidson claims Evander Bradley McGilvary as one
of her most noted sons, for he is no mean power in the educational world. His present address is Arlington
Place, Madison, Wisconsin.

COULD YOU USE $25.00?
Davidson Students Eligible for Essay Contest on Money Making in College.

The closing date for Arthur Murray's Essay Contest has been postponed to December 20. This will give students more time
to compete for the $75 in prizes offered for the best 500-word composition on “Five Ways of Earning Money at
College.” Anyone may enter. The prizes will be awarded for the best ideas rather than on the use of good
English. If a contestant writes a 100 percent essay, as far as composition is concerned, and spends his time telling
how to be a first-class writer, his chances of winning a prize are not overly bright. Eight prizes are being
offered by Arthur Murray, who earned $15,000 a year while working his way through Georgia Tech by teaching dancing. Mr.
Murray is especially anxious to hear from students who are now earning money at college. Manuscripts should be sent to
him at 143 East 39th Street, New York, N.Y. Already a number of rather unique experiences are told in the
essays. One fellow in Texas brought a number of cows to the college and made money selling milk to the
students. Another relates that he raised white mice in the basement of his boarding house. In writing the essay, the
contestant should give at least two original ways of making money. The other three methods may be based on the
experiences of others. Twenty-five dollars will be given for the first prize; seven other prizes, scaling down to $5, are
offered. The winning essays will be published in one of the leading national magazines.

It is surprising, the number of the fellows who wish to spend Thanksgiving at “home,” in Charlotte, in Winston, in
Rock Hill, and in Greensboro.

Carolina-Virginia Football Game Thanksgiving Day November 25 CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

Will Operate Extra Sleeping Cars and Day Coaches From Charlotte Winston-Salem Salisbury Hickory Greensboro High Point

Special Train From Charlotte, November 24, 1920.

Schedule:
Leave Charlotte 5:35 p.m.
Leave Concord 6:00 p.m.
Leave Salisbury 8:50 p.m.
Leave Lexington 9:23 p.m.
Leave Thomasville 9:40 p.m.
Leave High Point 9:54 p.m.
Leave Greensboro 10:30 p.m.
Arrives Charlottesville 4:12 a.m. Nov. 25

Returning Special train leaves Charlottesville 1:25 a.m. Nov. 26

Sleeping cars may be occupied until 7:30 a.m., Charlottesville, November 25. Sleeping cars open for occupancy 9:00 p.m., Charlottesville, November
25.

MAKE YOUR RESERVATION NOW
Call on nearest agent for information concerning fares, sleeping car rates, and schedules or address R. H. GRAHAM, D. P.
A., Charlotte, N.C.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
Phone 3626
213 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N.C.

December Columbia Records Now On Sale Here
Get the latest in music while it is the latest. To make a good record great play it on a
Columbia Grafonola.
W. T. McCOY & CO., Charlotte, N.C.
