THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

Captain Muehler’s little Dodge must have made a good impression on the language department—Dr. Grey has one ordered, also Dr. Harding. Who’s next?

Phi Society Program.
Debate: Mrs. Tucker Graham, wife of Dr. Tucker Graham, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Florence, S. C., and formerly president of Hampden-Sidney College, visited her niece, Mrs. A. B. Robson, for a few days last week.
Oration: Baldwin, J. W.
Declamation: Long, C. G.
Extemporaneous Debate: Long, F. V., Deaver, Robinson, Berge, Hunter, Coyte.

BAND AND GLEE CLUB GIVE CONCERT BEFORE QUEENS
Delightful Reception Tendered Davidson Men After Entertainment.

The concert given at Queens College last Saturday night by the combined Band and Glee Club was certainly one that would reflect a great deal of credit on any college, and it was loudly applauded. There were at least 35 Davidson men on the program and it is estimated that 50 or a hundred more went out to hear the concert and attend the subsequent reception. As for the Queens College girls, a mere glance at the center and right sections of the auditorium sufficed to prove their appreciation of the program.

The first number was “College Ties,” by the Glee Club. This was followed by two inspiring selections from the Band. A piano solo by Tremain came next, followed with a song by the Glee Club and a solo by Fred Justus. Cathey then gave one of his inimitable performances, with a large number of jokes and ended with a clog dance. He seemed to enjoy himself immensely, as he refused to leave the stage when the quartet appeared and added quite an amusing scene to the program by singing with them. After a few more excellent selections by the Band and the Glee Club, the concert was concluded by a rousing rendering of “O Davidson,” given by both the Band and the Glee Club, at which the audience rose to show their respect for the college.

Reception.
Immediately following the concert by the Davidson Band and Glee Club last Saturday night, the student body of Queens College gave a reception in honor of the Davidson students. To say that the occasion was greatly enjoyed is putting it mildly. The faculty and students of Queens left nothing undone that would increase the enjoyment of the evening. The halls and parlors of the administration building were beautifully decorated and everything was done to make the visitors feel at home. Delicious refreshments of ice cream and punch were served by the young ladies of the Finishing School who proved as ardent supporters of the Red and Black as the “Queens” themselves. The great tragedy of the evening was the fact that so many of the Davidson boys had to take an early departure in order to catch the “special” for Home, Sweet Home. To them, it seemed like a crime and a large number willfully and willingly failed to catch the special. The Davidson students are deeply indebted to those of Queens for the royal good time given them. Their appreciation was aptly expressed by the exclamation of one on departing when he said: “Gee, but I wish Davidson was co-ed.”

“AMERICA’S GIFT TO FRANCE”
The week from March 22-27 was set apart over the entire country for a colossal statue on the Marne. It was desired that the gift be as representative of the American people as possible. Accordingly, each individual was asked to give any amount he wished—preferably five or ten cents. Louis P. Good, who had charge of collecting the money...At Davidson College, reports the canvass a great success, having collected $29.53. This is an average of about seven cents for each man in the student body. The gifts, however, ran from one cent to one dollar and about 347 students gave their “bit.” He attributes the success of the canvass to the diligent Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co. Expert Dyers and Cleaners (Charlotte, N. C.) Agency 18 Watts

Literary News

The question of substituting the name of “Johnson” for that of “Winthrop” in the name of the college, making it read “Johnson College, The South Carolina College for Women,” is being discussed.—Winthrop Weekly News.

A check for $29.53 has been forwarded to the head office in New York with the request that Davidson College be credited with the amount and its name be engraved in the book that will be placed in the base of the monument.

She—“The man who marries me must be a hero.”
He—“Don’t worry, dear; he would have to be!”—Normal News.

There are meters of accent,
There are meters of tone,
But the best way to meet her,
Is to meet her alone.

There are letters of accent,
There are letters of tone,
But the best way to let her,
Is to let her alone.
—Ex.

THE DISTANCE.

Stranger—Beg pardon, sir, how far is it to the North Station?
H. White—I should say about a full drive, three brassies and a putt.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Additions to the number of portraits in the library are: Lts. S. R. Keesler, '17, and Pressly Brown, '06, both of whom were killed in the great war. Two other portraits which have been added are: J. M. Wearn, '19, and D. M. Orgain, '18, both of whom died of pneumonia while in camp. These portraits have been presented by their families. It is hoped that the entire list, 18 in number, may be in the library by commencement.

The new books in the library are biographies. They are:
Life of Dante—Charles Dinsmoore.
Horace Mann—Hubbel.
Theodore Roosevelt—Wm. Roscoe Thayer.
Life of John Marshall, Vols. 3 and 4—Albert J. Beveridge.
Robert Fulton—Alice Crane Sutcliffe.
Our Friends—John Clara Banus.
The Career of Leonard Wood—Joseph Hamblen Sears.
The Youth of James Whitcomb Riley—Marcus Dickey.
William Plummer Jacobs—Allen Jacobs

EXCHANGES.
(Continued from page 4)

SEEING FATHER.

LISTEN AL!
Can you tell me
Why FATHERS
Are so HEARTLESS
I don’t THINK
MY GIRL’S old man
Has ANY heart
AT ALL.
The other NIGHT
I went down
To see HER
And she
Wanted me
To ASK HER DAD
About it.
Now I don’t LIKE
FATHERS
ESPECIALLY HERS
But SHE PUSHED me in
Where he
Was READING
And SHUT THE DOOR.
So what could I DO?
He said “WELL”
And I FELT
Like SAYING
“ANOTHER HOLE IN THE GROUND”
But I Was SCARED STIFF.
But I THOUGHT
Of HER.
You know HER, AL!
Those GRAY EYES
And BLACK HAIR
And those PEARLY TEETH:
And when she SMILES—
But what’s the Use.
Well ANYHOW
I THOUGHT
Of HER
And FINALLY
Got it out
That I couldn’t
LIVE WITHOUT HER.
And What do you THINK!
HE OFFERED TO PAY
MY FUNERAL EXPENSES.
Now HONEST, AL!
Did he have
A HEART?
—Richmond Collegian.

Sealed Tight

BROWN'S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements, write Brown Brothers’ Orchestra 1524 Chestnut Street PHILADELPHIA, PA.

For rosy cheeks, happy smiles, white teeth, good appetites and digestions, its benefits are as GREAT as its cost is SMALL!

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra

The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years afterwards. It satisfies the desire for sweets, and is beneficial, too. Kept Right.