4

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL.................................................Editor-in-Chief
M. M. ARDS.................................................Managing Editor
R. RICHMOND........................................Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE................................................Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES...........................................Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS........................................Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL........................................Exchange Editor
..........................................................Forum Editor
..........................................................Campus Editor
..........................................................Y. M.C. A. Editor
..........................................................Social Editor
..........................................................Literary Editor
..........................................................Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
BITZER, R.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
OGDEN, D. H.
ORMAND, A. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
LONG, C. G.
MAHOOD, D. L.
COOPER, W. J.
MAUZE, G. W.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

Assistant Managers
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG.............................................Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL.............................................Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Four things a man must learn to do
If he would make his record true:
To think without confusion clearly;
To love his fellow-man sincerely;
To work from honest motives purely;
To trust in God and Heaven securely.”

While we would not prefer a hot region all the time, yet a little warmth in the radiators would not
be amiss during these chilly days. O where, O where can the Damage Committee be? From the continual window glass
breaking program it would seem that it has shuffled off this mortal coil.

The plans for giving the team a rousing send-off for the W. & L. game must have miscarried, for there
were only a handful of students present when they left. Why not make it a custom to always have the
band and a cheering crowd of boys to send them off and to welcome them back?

Do you think the students would be interested in a college minstrel to be given each year in the fall?

Why doesn’t some energetic man of the Class of ‘21 embark upon the mission of locating the key that will
unlock the Senior Privileges for this year?

It is glad tidings that the student body has taken the matter of raising the money for our Annual into
their hands. “A Bigger and a Better Davidson” must have a bigger and a better Annual.

We are watching, we are waiting for the first Lyceum number. The students should back the enterprising promoters of this
plan to add to the too limited social life of our campus. Let each student buy a ticket to show
his appreciation.

JUST A MINUTE, FRESH!

It is not our policy to be continually finding fault, but it is our purpose by this medium to strengthen
and improve the student life of our school if we can. For this reason, we are calling attention to a
fact which we hope soon to see eradicated. Any stranger coming to this institution will notice one custom quicker than
anything else, namely: that EVERYBODY SPEAKS TO EACH OTHER ON OUR CAMPUS. It does not matter here whether you know
each other or not so far as speaking is concerned when you pass a fellow-student. It is enough to know
that he is a Davidson student, and being aware of that fact it is your duty to smile and say,
“Hi, Gentlemen,” at least. It always has been, and it is to be hoped that it will continue to be,
that every Davidson student will be democratic in his dealings with his college mates on this campus. Forbid that the
time should ever come when the men of this school should become so self-centered that they will not speak to
each other. That does not savor of a proper attitude and spirit compatible with our democratic campus.

OCTOBER 8, 1920.

Open Forum

HOW SHALL THE STUDENTS AT DAVIDSON SALUTE THE COLORS?

The proper marks of respect to be shown the colors by men in uniform and men out of uniform and
men with nothing on save a track suit or some other form of athletic dress has been a greatly disputed
question on the campus here of late. The colors are usually on display just outside the door, near the commandant's
office, in good weather, and no man should fail to show them the proper respect when passing that way. The
following set of regulations governing the saluting of the colors has been issued by Captain Hearn, and public sentiment on
the campus should see that they are observed by soldiers and civilians alike.

1. Every man in uniform and unarmed passing within 30 paces of the colors shall render them the prescribed right-hand
salute.
2. Every man in uniform and armed with the rifle passing within 30 paces shall render the prescribed rifle salute.
3. Every man dressed in civilian clothes, with hat on, passing within 30 paces, shall render the prescribed salute for
civilians; that is, the hat to be removed and placed over the heart with the right hand.
4. Every man dressed in civilian clothes, without the hat, shall render the prescribed right-hand salute.
5. Every man dressed in athletic garb of any fashion passing within 30 feet of the colors shall render the
prescribed right-hand salute.
6. No man shall pass and salute the colors while moving in double time; upon coming within saluting distance the
quick time should be the pace, and this gait should be held until well past the colors.

Fellows, it is our duty as well as our privilege to salute the flag of our country at the proper
time and in the proper way, and while the outward form of the salute is good, yet it is only
half what it should be if the proper spirit is not behind it. Let us recognize in our national colors
the emblem of our nation and the principles for which it stands, and let us be justly proud to respect
it as such.

REDPATH’S LYCEUM TO PRESENT FIVE NUMBERS

Varied and Excellent Programs to Be Presented Here.

The great success of last year's Lyceum Course has guaranteed to the Davidson student body even a bigger and better
course of entertainment for this year. Under the direction of E. A. Nash and C. H. Long, who have succeeded
in arranging five of Redpath’s best numbers, the entertainments promiseto be of unusually spicy variety. The first number comes October
11, at which time Ralph Bingham, well known as America’s Foremost Platform Humorist, will preside, with an evening devoted to
stories and music which give promise of causing many wrinkles to disappear and not a few sideaches from wholehearted laughter.
On November 1, the Four St. Claire Sisters will appear with quartet numbers, piano solos, duets, and instrumental pieces on
the mandolin, banjo, and violin. Pianologues, readings, and humorous songs with action will also be given.

If such a thing should ever happen, then snobbishness, now so foreign to us, would hold sway, and that friendly,
congenial atmosphere that makes every student love Old Davidson would pass into oblivion. In view of this, we cannot help
feeling that it is our duty to warn and advise the new men that they should swing into line regarding
this custom of many decades. It is you who in a short two or three years will be the leaders
here; therefore, it is imperative that you inoculate yourselves with this simple but sound principle of ordinary everyday courtesy. As
Freshmen, do not think that you are to be spoken to first.

The next entertainment is Mrs. Fiechtl’s Tyrolean Yodlers on November 16. This company was organized in Innsbruck, one of the
most picturesque places in the Swiss Tyrol. They appear in the picturesque and beautiful national costume of their people, the
most attractive in all Europe. Two complete changes of costume are made during their program. The New York Glee Club
comes sometime soon after the Christmas holidays. The date has not yet been definitely set. This well-balanced male quartet has
a popular program of vocal music, offering ample opportunity for the harmonious blending of their individual, strong, clean, and clear
voices. The program is varied so as to appeal to the lovers of all different kinds of music. The final
number completing this well-rounded course will be a noted Jazz Orchestra, rendering all the popular new pieces with pep and
ardor.

This is your right as well as any upperclassman, and we want to see you exercise that right to the
limit. Just remember also, men, that it does not cost anything to utter a friendly greeting, and yet sometimes just
one or two words spoken in this way will change the entire aspect of things. It will make the whole
day seem better and brighter and you will feel like you are a real man. Try it, Freshmen, and see
if we are not right.

Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room.

DECATUR BAPTIST COLLEGE COMES OUT WITH NEW PIECE OF JOURNALISM

The “D. B.C. Whim-Wham,” Vol. 1, No. 1, made its appearance in a four-column eight-page snappy newspaper form on September
22. The Whim-Wham hails from Decatur College and carries a fair amount of advertising. The editorial page is also well
filled.

Captain Price (in Sub-Science class)—Where did the egg come from?
Class—The hen.
Captain Price—Where did the hen come from?
Class—The egg.
Captain Price—Which got here first?—Bayonet.

The new students are expected to put the pep into the football games the same as the old ones. Let
them get into the spirit and help our teams to win.

POINTERS TO FRESHMEN

When you first get here, get everything straightened up. Write home often. Join a literary society. Take an active part
in the Y. M. C. A. Subscribe to the “Reflector.” Keep up with the activities of the Student Association. Learn
your songs and yells. Go to the Campus Sunday School. Learn the names of all the football players. Go out
for some form of athletics. Keep up with your studies. Keep off of the military report. Do all this and
you will not have that curious feeling that some of you have been worrying about.

CONDUCT YOURSELF LIKE A GENTLEMAN

Fellows, there is a lot meant in that word “Gentlemen.” A good clean life can be built on the strong
foundation that is implied in that word “Gentleman.” I have never seen a new body of cadets, as we have
here on the “Hill” now, that seemed to conduct themselves in a more gentlemanly manner. I need not enumerate the
things that fulfill the definition for that word, but remember—that speech is one of the highest marks of a true
gentleman. A fellow can very quickly be sized up either for the good or the bad after he has been
in contact with fellows who do try to be Christian gentlemen. A courteous manner, of course, is always very pleasing
and is one of the highest marks of a gentleman. There are many more equally important things to fill this
bill, that when followed out will make you a one hundred percent gentleman.—Bayonet.

PARALYZED AS RESULT OF COLLEGE PADDLING

Emporia, Kans., Sept. 22.—Andy McCoy, of Wichita, a freshman in the College of Emporia, is paralyzed below the waist as
a result of hazing. He was struck with a paddle.

Charlie W. Worth, ‘20, spent several days on the Hill last week with his brother W. C. Worth, ‘21. He
was en route to Wilmington for a ten days’ vacation before resuming his work at Union Seminary.

SALESMEN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL & PAINT
CO., Cleveland, O.

WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalog or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

SPORTS

A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding
trade mark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them. The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee
of quality and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Have you paid your subscription yet? Send those two bones in immediately! This is your last copy of “THE BEST
COLLEGE WEEKLY” until---

We claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any good dealer.
W. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
