CHERO COLA CO., CHARLOTTE, COMMENCEMENT ~ THE DAVI. GOOD BYE, YOU LUCKY SENIORS! FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 28, 1920. NUMBER 10

GRAND COMMENCEMENT MARKS END OF SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR THE 1919-20 SESSION

THE MIGHTY IN SCHOLARSHIP

Senior
Askew, S. H. .......... 96.52
Chalmers, D. M. ....... 96

Junior
Brown, C. K. .......... 98.94
Cassell, J. E. .......... 97.39
Brown, J. S. .......... 95.72
Cumming, W. P. ...... 95.44
Richards, J. M. ....... 96.55

Freshman
Ogden, D. H. .......... 97.60
Davidson, R. F. ....... 96.72
Thames, F. C. ........ 95.17

Senior Averages (Those Above 95) for Total Time in College
Chalmers, D. M. ....... 96.02
Askew, S. H. .......... 95.65

Average in the Freshman Class is awarded to Ogden, D. H., Average 97.60.

Punctuality Roll
Class 1920—R. R. Craig, L. B. Nichols.
Class 1921—J. W. Long, D. L. Mahood.
Class 1922—R. R. Deaver, Jr.; P. D. Miller.
Class 1923—D. W. Bethea, D. H. Ogden.

Davidson Honored by Visit of the General Assembly
300 Commissioners and Many Visiting Ladies Arrived by Special Train

Saturday afternoon the General Assembly left its sessions in Charlotte long enough to pay a two-hours’ visit to Davidson. Punch was served at an informal reception on the campus as soon as the visitors arrived. Then the greater part of the visitors walked around the campus and heard from the lips of students and faculty various bits of “local color,” saw the picture of the “Greatest Davidsonian” painted on the front of Chambers, above the columns by a former student; saw the new gymnasium and the athletic field from which the Wildcat machines go forth to “win for the honor of old Davidson;” saw the chandelier in the Philanthropic Society hall under which Napoleon married Josephine Beauharnais; saw the inscrutable grandeur of the columns of Chambers; saw the beauty of the grass and heard about the famous rains that make it so green; saw the dormitories in which the boys live and the classrooms in which they meet their doom by the deathly hail sprayed from the deadly machine guns of the faculty.

After this, the commissioners reassembled on the campus and upon hearing the unearthly strains of the Wildcat quartet (no, gentle reader, the name is not onomatopoetic—and they were not trying to imitate the salutations with which a hound greets the full moon). Then Dr. Martin, with his usual pithy forcefulness, welcomed the visitors. Dr. Lingle, President of the Board of Trustees of the college, spoke of the bright hopes which the college has for the future. Six colored ministers, who were commissioners in the Assembly, sang several negro songs. Dr. Moore, who (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Closes Eighty-First Session in Blaze of Glory

The Class of 1920

Commencement Events Interesting and Enjoyable

Class of ’20 and Y. M. C. A. Hear World Famous Minister, Dr. John McNeill

The present graduating class at Davidson College had the privilege on last Sunday of hearing one of the most unique, interesting, and uplifting Baccalaureate Sermons that has been preached to any class here during the past several years. The sermon was preached by Dr. John MacNeill, pastor-elect of one of the large churches of New York City, and at present from Birmingham, Ala. Dr. MacNeill is a native Scotchman, and is widely known both in the old country and in America for his wonderful ministry and his scholarly attainments.

The text for the sermon was chosen from Luke, the 57th through the 62nd verses of the ninth chapter. The subject was: “The Great Commencement Offered to the Three Types of Men Represented in the Text,” namely: First, the man who is too quick, too talkative concerning his religion; second, the man who is too slow, ashamed or afraid to be open with his religion; and third, the man who is too soft to be a true Christian, unable and unwilling to bear the wrench required to free him from the world and for Jesus. In a very clear and able manner, the speaker developed his text, and gave his hearers such a sermon as they had seldom, if ever, heard.

Dr. MacNeill made his second appearance before a Davidson audience in preaching the Annual Sermon before the Y. M. C. A. The subject of the evening’s discourse was: “Constancy in Adherence to One’s Religious and Scriptural Beliefs and Practices,” and Daniel 6:10 was used as a text. The importance of having a true religious creed was emphasized and the necessity for strict adherence to its principles shown. Several phrases used by Dr. MacNeill will give the central thought of the sermon: (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Finals Brought to Close With Awards—Distinguished President of Wofford College Scores in Annual Literary Address

Men of one mind describes those who heard the excellent address by President H. N. Snyder, of Wofford College, who spoke before the graduating class of Davidson College, Tuesday night. His subject may be best expressed in his own rhetorical question: “How are we minded?” Introduced by Dr. Martin as from a sister state, of a sister denomination but not in person a sister, but a man in the truest sense, the distinguished president of the Methodist college of South Carolina fully sustained his reputation as a thinker and a speaker in the message he brought to Davidson. While his address was in serious vein and an earnest call to sober thought as to whither as a nation we are drifting, its somber, shadow side was so relieved by pleasing humor and bright illustrative story and incident that the impression made was altogether fine. How shall one take the measure of the greatness of a man? His true greatness is not found in his tallStatue, not in his stalwart frame; it is measured by the distance between his eyebrows and his hair, and as the line of this latter recedes, it is to be assumed that the individual concerned steadily increases in this greatness. Charles Lamb wittily remarked that any man could write a poem like Wordsworth’s own if only he had a mind to it. An idea takes hold in the minds of many, these many come to think alike with the result that at last the same idea possessing a great number takes form and shape in action. This particular bit of philosophy of life gets to working and puts men to practicing the thought upon which their minds have dwelt.

Graduates

Promptly at 1 o’clock Wednesday morning, a long procession of black-robed Seniors left the Philanthropic Hall and filed slowly and majestically up the broad walk to Chambers and into the Commencement Hall. The visitors and friends of the graduating class quickly followed the procession, and the exercises began. The invocation was pronounced by Rev. C. M. Boyd, of Tuscaloosa, Ala., followed by the salutatory, delivered by the second honor man, S. Horton Askew, in which a cordial welcome was extended to the visitors in the hall.

The four representatives of the class who were to contest the Senior Orator’s Medal then spoke. H. B. Brown, of the Eumenean Society, led with an address on “Patriotism.” Another Eumenean, P. B. Carwile, followed with a discussion of “Infinity.” D. M. Chalmers and Coyte Hunter, of the Philanthropic Society, spoke next on “Choosing a Purpose” and “A Paramount Problem in Reconstruction.”

The Bachelor of Arts Degrees were then conferred by Dr. T. L. Lingle, and the Bachelor of Science Degrees by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle. The diplomas were presented to the young men by the President, Dr. J. Martin. Prof. A. Currie then awarded the Master of Arts Degrees to Messrs. Good, Hall, and Fiske. These diplomas were also presented by the President.

The President next conferred four honorary degrees. Mr. B. W. Kilgore was made Doctor of Science; Rev. H. C. Hammond, Rev. C. M. Boyd, and Rev. W. B. McIlwaine then received Doctor of Divinity Degrees. Mr. McIlwaine was unfortunately absent on the mission field in Japan, but the degree was conferred notwithstanding.

As the President of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Walter L. Lingle was absent with the General Assembly in Charlotte, the installation of the (Continued on page 8)

Night Enjoyable Affair

Mr. R. M. Miller Heads Alumni for Fifth Term. Alumni Pledge Support to Davidsonian and Athletic Association

The annual banquet of the Alumni Association was held in the gymnasium last Wednesday evening at 6 o’clock sharp. Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., President of the association, in a few but well-chosen words welcomed the class of 1920 into the large body of alumni of Davidson College. Mr. Miller said that unless the alumni is loyal, there is something wrong either with the alumni or with the college. Since the alumni of Davidson College are loyal, there is therefore nothing wrong with Davidson nor the alumni. He told the new men that they would find that as the years rolled by, they were becoming more closely drawn to the college traditions and the principles for which she stood.

T. H. Spence, on behalf of the class of '20, responded to Mr. Miller’s welcome in a very fitting manner. Spence said that the class of ’20 was glad to become a member of that large body of men known as Davidson alumni—that they had been glad to be Davidson students, but still gladder to become alumni, and that he felt sure that ’20 would take its place among the leaders in advancing the cause of the college they all loved.

President Miller then made his annual report as president. Among other things in the report, he spoke of the local organization of the alumni in Charlotte having over 100 members and the splendid work that they were planning to do for the college. He also mentioned the thriving association of Gaston County, of which Mr. S. A. Robinson is president. President Miller stated that Davidson was now living in a new era. “With all its new endowment and with all the spirit, zeal, and enthusiasm, Davidson will double its enrollment within a few years,” concluded Mr. Miller.

The class of ’15 was then heard from by its representative, Mr. F. W. Price. Mr. Price said that it was a great pleasure to be back on the hill and to see so many of his old friends and to meet the many new ones. To meet with this great body of loyal alumni and pledge and reconsecrate our service to the cause of Davidson College is indeed to me a great privilege, said Mr. Price. The present is great, the past is full of the future.

Nineteen Ten was reported by Dr. White, of Atlanta, Ga. He spoke of the good organization among the Davidson alumni there and told of the great success the members of '10 were meeting with in the business world and other walks of life. Dr. Clark, of Salisbury, spoke for the class of '95. Dr. Clark said that the day had come for Davidson to grow; she could no longer content herself with the hundreds, but she must think in terms of thousands for her student body. “We now have amended the constitution of the college so we can take on $10,000,000 (ten million) assets, why not dig down and put that much in our college,” concluded Dr. Clark.

Dr. Harding was the only member (Continued on page 8)

450 IS OUR GOAL NEXT YEAR. GET BUSY NOW!