THE C. E. GRAHAM PROFESSORSHIP OF EDUCATION.

Realizing the growing demand for well-trained teachers, and desiring to offer courses specially designed to fit young men to take a position of leadership in the teaching profession, Davidson has added to its curriculum the Department of Education and Psychology. The courses in Education are divided into two groups: (1) Those concerned with the problems of instruction and (2) those relating to administration. The problem of instruction is, on the one side, scientific—what are the laws of learning, and on the other, it is one of art—how may these laws of psychology be made applicable to the task of training and discipline. The student will be expected to have had one year of formal psychology and will be directed in selecting those principles he has acquired, which are of special value in conducting a recitation. Since the subject of instruction is the child and youth, there will be a course dealing especially with the psychology of childhood and adolescence, as distinguished from adult psychology. The laws of mental and physical growth will be studied and attention given to their correlation.

The problem of school administration is twofold: (1) Those principles that concern school finance, buildings, class organization, supervision, qualifications of a teacher, and supervision of health and play. (2) Acquaintanceship with the school law of North Carolina.

As part of the work of the chair of Education, there will be given instruction in general psychology. The first part of the year will be introductory. The student will aim to get a clear conception of the problems of psychology, its methods, and technique. He will become acquainted with the elementary facts of mental life and be able to differentiate between structural, functional, and behavioristic psychology. The last part of the year, a more detailed study will be given to some special field of psychology. The instruction will be by textbook, lecture readings, and reports will also be part of the work. The aim of the course throughout will be to furnish the student with that intelligent knowledge of the science of psychology which will be useful in directing his subsequent studies in this field or applying his knowledge to practical problems of law, medicine, salesmanship, or social betterment.

DEPARTMENT OF FRENCH.

Davidson, like other colleges and universities, is trying to provide efficient instruction for the large numbers of students crowding into the department of French these latter times. The past year, first-year French was taught in four sections, and will be taught again if necessary. The utmost effort is made to give vitality; substantial demands are made on the student as to application and time. Two years in French classes at Davidson should enable the student to take care of himself in France, or to handle French books with facility in his graduate or professional work at any American university. It is very essential that every student, both old and new, be present at the very first meeting of the class and be sure to get an even start with those who mean business. In scarcely any other branch does late arrival handicap a student so severely as in a foreign language. If the student will bring a mind, a tongue, an ear, and a pen, all in good working condition during the coming session, we are sure commendable inroads will be made on one of the finest languages and literatures the world has ever known.

As now provided in Davidson’s schedule, young men entering college can begin Greek just as they begin the modern languages and have it count as a college credit toward graduation. Greek 1 will cover a Beginner's Greek book and one Book of the Anabasis, part of this latter possibly being read out of class, as there are only three recitations in Greek 1 to the teaching, now as against five a few years ago. Greek 2 marks a progressive study of the language, with special emphasis on Greek words in English, while Greek 3 and Greek 4 (Classical Greek) may be described as in like measure progressive and extensive in compass, introducing the student to Plato and Demosthenes or Thucydides in the first term respectively and to the Greek dramatists in the second.

New Testament Greek as an alternate to Greek 3 is designed more especially to meet the needs of candidates for the ministry, but, as a study of the Greek New Testament and its peculiarities in word formation and syntax involve an emphasis on the normal or standard form and construction in classical Greek, the course is of almost equal value to the general student of Greek. Greek 6 may be characterized in a word as a study of the history of Greek literature (Jebb’s Primer) illustrated at length with readings (and analysis) in English translation of the Greek masterpieces from Homer through the Anthology. While an acquaintance with the Greek language is not a requisite for admission to this class, some rather liberal acquaintance with English literature is assumed for those offering for the course. Two or three years of study of Greek preparation for Greek 6. All Greek this year will be taught by Dr. Harding.

POLITICAL SCIENCE.

In the department of Political Science, the following courses will be given:

1. Elements of Law—This is a practical law course, not designed to train lawyers, but for the average citizen. It is a study of the origin and development of the common law and principles of equity. A brief study is made of Crimes, Torts, and Domestic Relations. Special attention is devoted to Contracts and Commercial Law in the Spring term.

2. Political Science I—This course furnishes an introduction to the study of Political Science, its relation to other social sciences, the origin and development of the State, and governmental forms. In the Spring term, a comparative study of the Governments of Europe is made, special attention being paid to England.

3. Political Science II—In this course, the Fall term is devoted to a study of State Constitutions and Governments. The Spring term is devoted mainly to a study of International Law. Those who take it should have previously had either Elements of Law or Political Science I.

4. Economics I introduces the student to the very broad and important field of Economics. Its aim is to furnish an outline of the subject—to give the student an acquaintance with economic terms, and to suggest to his mind some of the more important problems of the field.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.

Physical examination of the students will begin as soon as the rolls are completed. This will enable us to eliminate the new men who are not physically qualified for R. O. T. C. and have them placed in a training class under Coach Grey. While compulsory vaccination is not a requirement for entrance to Davidson College, it is a wise plan for each student to have both the typhoid vaccination and the smallpox vaccination before entering college. To those desiring, however, these vaccinations are given without charge after entering college.

MATHEMATICS.

Mathematics I will commence with College Algebra and will later take up Plane and Spherical Trigonometry. Entrance conditions now require students to have completed Solid Geometry in addition to those requirements heretofore existing. This course will be taught in four sections by Professors Douglas, Currie, and Wood. Other courses in Mathematics will be practically the same as last year.

PARTIAL LIST OF TEXT-BOOKS FOR NEXT TERM.

Accounting—Kester’s Accounting, Vol. 1.
Astronomy—Moulton: Introduction to Astronomy (Revised Edition).
Bible—I, Syllabus, Vol I; Davis’ Bible Dictionary. I, Syllabus, Vol 2, Davis’ Bible Dictionary. II, Supplied; IV, Supplied.
Biology—I, Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology; Hegner, College Zoology; No. 201 Biology Pads; No. 411 Biology Pads; No. 411½ Biology Pads. II, Pratt’s Vertebrate Zoology; McFarland’s General and Medical Biology; No. 202 Biology Pads. III, No. 202 Biology Pads.
Chemistry—I, Alex Smith’s Intermediate College Chemistry; Alex. Smith’s Intermediate College Chemistry Lab. Manual. II, Alex. Smith’s College Chemistry; Alex. Smith's College Chemistry Lab. Manual. III, A. A. Noyes: Qualitative Chemistry.
Economics—I, Ely: Outlines of Economics (Third Revised Edition). IV, Plehn: Public Finance.
Education—Judd: Introduction to the Scientific Study of Education; Colvin: The Learning Process.
English—I, Manley & Rickert: Writings of English;Paltee: Century Readings in American Literature; Smith: What Can Literature Do For Me; Webster: Secondary School Dictionary.

II, Cunliffe, Pyre and Young: Century Readings in English Literature; Fletcher: History of English Literature (New and Revised).

IV, Page: Chief American Poets; Boynton: History of American Literature; Poe: Prose Tales; Emerson: Selected Essays; Hawthorne: Twice-told Tales.

V, Wooley: Handbook of English Composition.

French—I, Thieme and Effinger French Grammar. II, Fraser and Squairs French Grammar. Readers: La Belle France; Malot’s Sans Famille; Alexandrine’s Practical Introduction to French.

German—II, Schrag’s Alexis Grammar; Märchen Und Erzählungen, Vol 1. III, El’Arrabiata.

Greek—I, Benner and S. Beginners Greek Book. III (1) Greek New Testament, (2) Short Grammar of Greek Testament. VI, Jebb: Primer of Greek Literature.

History—I, Hazen: Europe Since 1815. II, Cross: History of England. IV, Enoch: Latin American Republics.

Latin—I, Quintius Curtius; Gildersleeve & Lodge Latin Grammar. II, Livy; Latin Composition and Latin Grammar.

Law—Clarke: Elements of Law.

Mathematics (Applied)—I, Raymond, Plane Survey. II, Tracy: Introductory Course in Mechanical Drawing.

Mathematics (Pure)—I, Ashton and M. College Algebra. II, McLenon and R. Introduction to the Elementary Functions. III, Fine and T.: Coordinate Geometry. IV, Already supplied.

Philosophy—Hyde: The Great Philosophies of Life.

Psychology—Angell: Introduction to Psychology; Human Psychology.

Physics—II, Spinney: A Text-Book of Physics; Ames and B.: A Laboratory Manual. III and IV, Supplied.

Political Science—I, Gettell: Introduction to Political Science. II, Munro: Government of the U. S.

Spanish—I, Hill and Ford First Spanish Course advanced; Waxman’s Trip to South America; Valdés: La Hermana San Sulpicio.

TRAIN SCHEDULE. In Effect August 1st.

Leave Charlotte. Arrive Davidson.
No. 26: 5:20am 6:13am
No. 16: 8:00am 8:58am
No. 14: 11:30am 12:23pm
No. 24: 1:00pm 2:58pm

Leave Statesville.
No. 23: 7:40am 8:35am
No. 15: 7:10pm 8:06pm

Leave Barbers.
No. 25: 10:55am 11:50am
No. 13: 3:25pm 4:15pm

FACULTY NOTES.

Dean M. E. Sentelle had the month of June as his vacation, which he spent with home folks at Greenville, Tenn. Since July 1st he has been actively engaged in the duties connected with his new office.

Professor Currie has been studying at Cornell University. Postcards bearing the picture and postmark of Niagara Falls have been received in Davidson from Mrs. Currie and the children. The high price of gasoline evidently has not interfered with his mixing some pleasure with hard work.

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas are at Montreat this summer. As faculty representative on athletics, Dr. Douglas has been very much interested in the prospects for football and has been in frequent communication with Coach Grey.

Dr. Harding has been in Davidson and Charlotte for most of the time. He, accompanied by Prof. J. L. Douglas, had a pleasure trip to Detroit during July. The trip to Detroit was made on the train.

Dr. Arbuckle’s summer address has been Lewisburg, W. Va., where he has been rendering valuable assistance in reorganizing Lewisburg Seminary. We are glad he did not accept the work permanently when it was offered to him last spring. Before returning to Davidson, Dr. Arbuckle’s family has planned a motor trip that will include Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington.

Professor and Mrs. Wood are at Lewisburg also.

Dr. Grey, vice-president of the college, has been in Davidson for the most part. The monotony of home life was broken by a vacation trip to Hendersonville, points in east Tennessee, etc.

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle is professor of Mediaeval and Modern European History in the Summer Quarter of the University of Virginia. Mrs. Lingle, with her mother and other relatives, is on a motor trip up the Hudson and through the Adirondacks. Miss Sarah is visiting school friends in Norfolk.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, with Joe, Riggs, and John D., is spending the summer at Camp Sapphire, Brevard. Dr. John W. MacConnell, with Davidson as headquarters, has taken several extended pleasant motor trips. Courtney is attending the last term of Camp Sapphire.

Dr. E. F. Shumake is again teaching English at the Summer Quarter of the University of Virginia. At its recent commencement, U. of Virginia conferred the Ph.D. degree on Dr. Shewmake. The students, faculty, and trustees will wish to unite in congratulating Dr. Shewmake on securing this degree.

Dr. C. M. Richards is taking his vacation during August. This time he is spending with his family at Montreat.

Prof. M. H. Hunt and family have occupied the residence of Professor Wood during the summer. Mrs. Hunt and Miss Priscilla spent some days at Montreat.

Miss Shaw has been quite busy completing material for the history of Davidson College and has gone to Crisp Inn, Sapphire, N. C., for a breathing spell before the opening of college.

Miss Steele’s vacation was taken in June and was spent at Valdosta, Ga., and Montreat, N. C.

Coach H. M. Grey is studying Science and Tactics of Athletics at the University of Wisconsin. He will have a full line of dope to inject into the Wildcats when practice begins September 1st. Look out A. & E., Ga. Tech., Washington & Lee, et sequentia!

Miss Thompson, except for short visits to Charlotte and Statesville, has been at her usual duties in the treasurer's office.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson was called to Lumberton for a few days.

Coach Hengeveld will be principal of the Davidson Graded School and will be on hand to put “brains” into the baseball and basketball teams again.

Welcome Dr. E. A. Byers, Professor of Spanish and German. Prof. Edward J. Erwin, Professor of English. Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Education and Psychology, Professor of Military Science and Tactics.

THE LAUNDRY.

The brick building for the laundry is practically completed. Some of the machinery has been in stock since before college closed. Other parts have been arriving since. There are certain essential parts, however, that we have been unable to obtain, but are promised shipment of these August 5th. Mr. H. P. Helper will be in charge of the laundry and he is now spending some time in one of the Charlotte laundries preparatory to assuming his new work. There will be several men in the Freshman class who have had considerable experience in laundry work, who will be engaged to help in the work from time to time.

Co-operation of the students is requested in the marking of the clothes. All marking will be done by numbers and each student will be given a number before he leaves home. You are requested to be particularly careful not to lose or misplace your number, but to have each and every garment marked with the number which will be furnished you the latter part of August. If you do not get a number before you come to college, you will get the same from the treasurer’s office.

A number of requests have come from the new students asking what they are expected to bring with them to furnish their rooms. The college furnishes only the heavy furniture, chiffonier, table, bed, springs, mattresses, etc. The college does not furnish chairs or pillows, but suitable chairs may be purchased from local stores at reasonable prices.

The old men are reminded and the new men requested to take note that no one is allowed to change his room without first having his name changed on the records in the treasurer’s office. The furniture must not be moved from one room to another without permission. An exact record of the equipment in each room is on file in the college office. A man’s late arrival is no excuse for not having a mattress or a bed when he does come.

The college charges provide for only two electric lights to each room. The single lamps this year will be 50 watts instead of 40 watts as heretofore. Additional or large lamps, pressing irons, or electric fans cannot be allowed. Janitors will be required to report any variation.

READ THE NEW CATALOGUE.

It is urged that you secure and read from cover to cover a copy of the catalogue for 1919-20 within the first week after your return. There are many changes in the courses (several new ones being offered), changes in the absence regulations, in regard to Junior and Senior Orations, points necessary for graduation, etc. Make a memorandum now to study the catalogue carefully as soon as you get back.