THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920.

Printed and Engraved Business Cards and Announcements.
We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS.
Queen City Printing Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
14 E. 4th St.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Reliable Equipment —FOR—
Hockey, Basketball, Skating, Skiing and all Indoor and Outdoor Sports.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 East 42d St., New York City.
We want Agents where we are not already represented.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery.
Drink at our Sanitary Fountain.
We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

THE DAVIDSON KANDY KITCHEN
Something New in Davidson
FRUITS, CANDIES AND DRINKS.
DROP IN AS YOU PASS

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE
New Spring Suits
From the shops of “Society Brand”
Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection.
Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc.
The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street

Welcome, Volunteers!
THREE SUNDAY SCHOOLS OPEN
Not yet have the country Sunday Schools recovered from the flu. Warm weather will open things up.

When a delegate registers he or she should pay a one dollar registration fee. This will entitle them to an Introduction Card (which will be a receipt for their dollar), a copy of The Davidsonian (by courtesy of the staff), a ticket of admission to the Lyceum, a copy of the Souvenir announcements, and a ribbon to wear as a delegate.

SUNDAY “Y” SERVICE.
Dr. Henderlite, of Gastonia, Delivers Talk.
One of the most inspiring talks of the year was given to the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday, when Dr. J. H. Henderlite, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, spoke on the subject of Well Digging. He read from the fourth chapter of John, which describes Christ’s conversation to the woman of Samaria by Jacob’s well. His text was John 4:12, “Our father Jacob, which gave us the well.”

Every individual should all be a well-digger, said Dr. Henderlite. Each one should extract the good from others by digging underneath their outward coating and bringing out the nobleness which lies beneath. Dr. Henderlite has a brother in Mexico who lived in a territory where the people often suffered for lack of water. He had a pump sent to him from the United States, and showed the people how it was possible to dig deep down into the ground and bring up the hidden water. By the aid of that pump, he was able to get beneath the sterile surface and obtain the life-giving moisture below.

A man’s life should be like a well which furnishes water to the tired travelers, the tramp, the weary, and the thirsty. They stop and drink, then go on their way refreshed. That is what a man’s life ought to be—one who is a never ceasing source of comfort and inspiration to others. Service is the keynote of the hour. If you expect to go out into the world, you should give in return the best that is in you.

INSTRUCTIONS TO DELEGATES
Registration—Library.
Main Sessions—Church.
Social Hours—Gymnasium.

When a delegate registers he or she should pay a one dollar registration fee. This will entitle them to an Introduction Card (which will be a receipt for their dollar), a copy of The Davidsonian (by courtesy of the staff), a ticket of admission to the Lyceum, a copy of the Souvenir announcements, and a ribbon to wear as a delegate.

A registry book will be kept in the Library and every delegate is urged to sign there as soon as they can. After the Friday evening service there will be given an opportunity for delegates to register and be assigned to their homes.neath. So it is in the life of every ploughman, and all those who come in contact with life. 

Only three schools ventured to hold an attendance of 133, with 12 teachers. Be like a well by the side of the road, and look for greater things. 

OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE

Of those who come in contact with life to make money, be sure you are going at it in the right spirit before it is too late. There has been a gradual change in the past few years in the questions asked about a rich man. Before the war, the question was simply “How much?” A man used to be respected for the mere fact that he had money. During the war the question was changed to “How did you get it?” and now it is “Why did you get it—what are you going to do with it?” The world is in need of help, and this is no time for a man to selfishly hoard all he can get. The world is calling for courageous, unselfish men. Prepare yourself for that call.

“The World's Best Piano”
and other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO

Reasonable terms of payment. Tuning, Repairing and Moving.

JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR SOCIETY TO INSTALL OFFICERS.

The newly elected officers of the Christian Endeavor society, together with the committee chairmen, will be installed at the meeting next Sunday afternoon. Dr. Richards will conduct the installation service. The officers are: President, W. A. Gamble, Jr.; Vice-President, Miss Lois Barnett; Secretary, Miss Newtie Deal; Treasurer, Miss Nancy Grey. All the students are invited to the Christian Endeavor. The topic next Sunday is “Patience and its Rewards.”

Welcome, Volunteers!

WATCH WATTS.

Again the attendance in the Bible classes has shown itself still below last Fall’s standard. If the classes are not fully attended, whose fault is it? Next week probably the attendance will go to the top again. Give the following a little thought:

Present. Pet.
Chambers .. .. .. .. 2 66
Rumple .. .. .. .. 2 56
Watts .. .. .. .. 43 73
Georgia .. .. .. .. 25 59
163 57

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recent: $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N. C.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

PLAY TENNIS
Spalding Tennis Equipment: Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including tennis clothing. Send for our catalog.
A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.
The Selwyn Hotel