THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920

Devotional News

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS DR. WALTER LINGLE.

“Witness Bearing” Subject of Helpful Talk

The Ministerial Band had the pleasure of hearing another Union man last Sunday. This was Rev. Walter Lingle, Professor of
Church History at Union, and chairman of the board of trustees of Davidson College. As a practical point, Dr. Lingle
brought out what a fine thing it would be for every minister to be able to play a piano. If
not this, every one by all means ought to be able to raise a tune. There was no one at
this meeting to play, and all present realized fully what an advantage such training would be.

Dr. Lingle based his remarks on this verse, “Ye shall be witnesses for Me.” What does being a witness depend
on? First, it depends on what a man knows. Go out and tell the people what you know of Christ,
not what you have seen in some book or paper; have reality. The way to gain knowledge is by studying
and praying. Secondly, one’s value as a witness depends on what he is. One can accomplish more by living a
true Christian life than by his preaching and visiting the sick, the poor, and needy. If one is not living
what he is preaching, his value as a witness is no good. Then finally, one’s value as a witness depends
on what he says. Go out and tell people of Jesus and His love and His power to save. Learn
to speak to your fellow man about his soul’s salvation. People expect you to do it.

Another great thing brought out by Dr. Lingle was to live lives above reproach. Be careful of your talk and
your everyday dealings. Don’t say things you would be ashamed for your mother or your Savior to hear you say.
Deal with your fellow man justly and be willing to testify for Jesus.

L. B. SCHENCK AND A. L. CURRIE ATTEND N. C. “Y” CONVENTION

A meeting of the College Y. M. C. A. officers of North Carolina was held at Raleigh on March 27
and 28. Mr. J. E. Johnson, Student Secretary of North Carolina, called the meeting for the purpose of discussing plans
for the ensuing year. The speakers for the conference were: Mr. David R. Porter, of the International Y. M. C.
A.; Mr. Seigler, Foreign Secretary of the Y. M. C. A.; Mr. Watson, Industrial Secretary, and Mr. Johnson. Practically every
college Y. M. C. A. in the state was represented: the University of North Carolina, Elon College, Wake Forest, Trinity,
N. C. State, and Davidson. A. L. Currie and L. B. Schenck attended from Davidson.

A casting for one of the huge water-wheel driven generators installed in the Mississippi River Power Company's plant at Keokuk.
This installation will ultimately consist of thirty of these machines, giving a total capacity of 236,000 kilowatts (800,000 horsepower). It
is the largest hydro-electric development in the world. The General Electric Company builds generators for water-wheel drive in sizes ranging
from 875 to 82,000 kilowatts, and the aggregate capacity of G-E units now in successful operation is in excess of
four million horsepower.

Utilizing Nature’s Power

ELECTRICAL energy generated by water power has grown to be one of our greatest natural resources — and we have
only begun to reach its possibilities. It mines and refines our ores, turns the wheels of industry, propels our street
cars, and lights our cities and towns. The power obtained from Nature saves many million tons of coal every year.
At first, the field of its utilization was limited by the distance electricity could be transported. But soon research and
engineering skill pointed the way to larger and better electrical apparatus necessary for high-voltage transmission. Then ingenious devices were invented
to ensure protection against lightning, short-circuits, etc., which cause damage and interrupt the service. And now all over the country,
electrical energy is being utilized to its fullest potential.

VOLUNTEER BAND ELECTS OFFICERS

Roberts, Crane, and Mauze to Guide Organization. Mr. Parker tells Of Pressing Need.

Has the Volunteer Band any “pep?” Well, if you could have been at last Sunday’s meeting you would have seen
what “pep” really is. One of the most important...motions passed during the evening was that there would be a big
banquet for all Volunteers. If you want to have one of the biggest times ever, besides doing a big work,
join the Band. It is one of the livest organizations on the Hill; growing all the time. Last Sunday’s meeting
was the largest in its history at Davidson. Just before the election of next year's officers, Mr. Parker, who the
Davidson students support in Korea, made an interesting talk and presented a need which would make any red-blooded man feel
that it was his duty and privilege to go to the foreign field. The Band then selected next year’s officers.
Dave Roberts was elected president, W. E. Crane, vice-president, and G. W. Mauze, secretary and treasurer. With such officers, the
Band should have the greatest year in its history, but they will need the support and co-operation of every Volunteer.

Miss Grace James, of Winthrop College, spent the weekend on the Hill with her uncle, Prof. J. L. Douglas. Accompanying
Miss James were Misses McFadden and Koons, also of Winthrop. Miss McFadden is a sister of “Rooster,” '22.

As industry drives our country, a network of wires begins to appear, carrying the magic power. The General Electric Company,
with its many years’ experience, has played a great part in hydro-electric development. By successfully co-ordinating the inventive genius of
the company and its engineering and manufacturing abilities, it has accomplished some of the greatest achievements in the production and
application of electrical energy. The old mill wheel of yesterday has gone. Today, the forces of immense volumes of water
are harnessed and sent miles away to supply the needs of industry and business and the comforts of the home.

W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE

“The House of Service”
1. Free tuning for three years.
2. Free fire insurance while you are paying.
3. Exchange privilege.

Charlotte’s Largest Store Of Quality, Pianos and Organs
“The World's Best Piano” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-210 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training
School men produced $2,594,000, an average of $92,000. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give
him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep
in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our
Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

ONE GRADUATE BASEBALL
Get Into the Game with Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
Catalogue is now ready.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through
the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

General Electric Company
General Office
Schenectady, N.Y.
Sales Offices in all large cities.
