2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1920.

Sophs Defeat Fresh in Annual Baseball Classic: Pitcher’s Battle Goes to Upperclassmen by 1-0 Score

Last Saturday afternoon on Sprunt Field the Sophomores and Freshmen engaged in an exciting baseball game. As usual, the Freshmen took the beating. However, the game was very close, the Sophomores winning the verdict by a 1 to 0 count. A large number of students turned out to see the game, which was pulled off in great style. Considering the fact that the Freshmen had never played together before, they put up a good exhibition of baseball. The features of the game were the batting of Crawford for the Sophomores, who laced out two triples, and the superb pitching of the two rival pitchers, Sorrells for the Sophomores and Hunter for the Freshmen. The lone tally of the game was made when Crawford tripled to deep center and scored a moment later on a close play at the plate.

Pigskin Now Holds Sway in the South

Last Saturday's Contests Throw Interesting Light on Davidson’s Opponents

Only three of our enemies played last week. The season proper opens here in the South this Saturday when every college in this section will be out on the gridiron. Georgia Tech smothered Wake Forest to the tune of 44 to 0. Harlan and Barron each made 2 touchdowns, McDonough and Hunt making one. “Buck” Flowers, former Davidson star, drop-kicked a field goal from the 26-yard line. Last year, the Baptists held the Golden Tornado to a 14 to 0 victory, but revenge is sweet, and the lads from the Cracker State certainly waded into the old pastime last Saturday. Furman trounced Elon by a 33 to 0 score. Coach Laval’s proteges romped all over the field and employed straight football against their lighter rivals, who were unable to stand up under the charging of Rhame and Speer. The former made three touchdowns while the latter played superb ball in advancing.

WILDCATS BOW BEFORE BRAWN (Continued from page 1)

soon intercepted a forward pass and put the ball in State's possession on Davidson's 42-yard line. A 12-yard gain by Faucett and a pass to Gurley for a similar gain placed the farmers and engineers in position to score from midfield. A Freshman, named Hammett (a pretty good football name, I call it) put up a great game at center. For Elon, Cannon seems to have been the big gun on the offensive.

The Freshmen lost a good chance to score in the eighth when, with one down, Faison singled past second and raced to third a moment later when the next man up doubled down the right field line. Sorrells tightened up, however, and struck out the next man. The last batter was out on a close play at first.

Summary: R H E
Soph 001 000 000 1 3 1
Fresh 000 000 000 0 2 3

Runs, Crawford; two-base hits, Hunter; three-base hits, Crawford (2), Richards, Hunter; struck out, by Sorrells, 1; by Hunter, 5; base on balls off Sorrells, 1, off Hunter, 2; time of game, 100 minutes; attendance, the part of the Student Body that wasn’t in Charlotte.

HAPPENINGS OF THE WEEK IN R. O. T. C. CIRCLES

The supply of clothing on hand was not sufficient for the battalion and more has been ordered and will come this week. The War Department has approved the requisition of automatic rifles and a machine gun. They have been shipped and ought to be here at any time. A permanent appointment of officers and non-commissioned officers will be made about the first of this month. Captain Hearn was sick the latter part of last week and his classes were taken by Sergeant Johnson. The R. O. T. C. cap ornaments and sleeve insignia on their arrival will give the battalion the appearance of regular cadets and neither West Point nor the Bolsheviks will have anything on them. About 325 have enrolled in the R. O. T. C., which is a considerable increase over last year. The physical examinations for the new men have been completed and the list of men disqualified will be posted soon.

ITEMS OF INTEREST

University of Virginia won from the street below. game at center. For Elon, Cannon seems to have been the big gun on the offensive.

THE “GRIM GAME” HELD THE STUDENTS SPELLBOUND

Sitting spellbound gazing at the death-defying deeds of the slippery Houdini on the Gym screen Saturday night, the student body revived in great measure from the news of the game in Raleigh. His world-famous human eel in “The Grim Game” amply illustrated the fact that a good man is not only hard to find but likewise hard to hold. In the role of a reporter, he attempts to...Save his paper from disaster by pulling the sensation of the season. He tries to show circumstantial evidence to be a failure and himself. His three companions in the plot turn his hoax each to his own advantage, and the result proves to be more serious than expected. But after escaping from prisons, asylums, bear traps, and other minor hindrances, he at last literally runs the villain to earth by a daredevil leap from one airplane to another in full flight. When the dust cleared away, the villain was caught, and hero and heroine were together at last. And then... but that’s enough. How he does all that anywhere else without the inspiring aid of that remarkable syncopated combination of A. P. Ormand and Fresh Rhame is more than we can understand. Throughout the show, they turned out their special brand of gymnasium jazz, and great was the applause thereof.

The second quarter was the best the Crimson machine could do. The hugest score rolled up last week was the 63 to 0 victory of Oglethorpe over North Georgia Aggies. William and Mary 20 to 0. The losers failed to score a first down. Harvard was held to a 3-point victory over Holy Cross. An easy field goal from the 18-yard line for a field goal. The pass was high, and the attempt at a placement kick was a failure. However, after a few minutes more play, they were in a similar position and succeeded in placing the pigskin between the uprights. The half ended with the ball in Davidson's possession in midfield. Score: State 9; D.C. 0.

McFadden began the second half by booting the pigskin to Gurley, who returned it to his own 40-yard line. He then went through the Davidson line for a first down. The Wildcats began to get wild, however, and forced their opponents to punt, the punt rolling over the goal line. The ball was brought into play on the 20-yard line, and McFadden stepped off 25 yards around the right end. Shepard struck a wall that didn't have any holes in it on the right side of the line, but Hoe annexed 5 yards on the other side. An incomplete pass and then a punt placed the ball in State's possession. Then came the heart-breaking part of the game for the Wildcats. Faucette found a clear path for 25 yards around the right end. Gurley hammered the line until the ball was on Davidson's 10-yard line. In three downs, the ball was carried to the two-yard line, but on the last down, the Wildcats tore through State's line and threw her back, taking the ball away from her. McFadden then punted out to Faucette, who ran it back across the line for a touchdown. Gurley kicked the goal, making the score 16 to 0. The third quarter ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on her own 35-yard line.

In the next quarter, Cassell politely took a pass out of Murray’s waiting hands and started the ball towards the goal line. On the next play, however, a mix-up in the signals caused the pass to go free, and Kirkpatrick recovered it for a touchdown. Gurley again kicked the goal, making the score 23 to 0. Davidson came dangerously near scoring in the last two minutes of play. After Gurley had kicked off to Schenck, a pass to Douglas netted 30 yards. Another pass, an end run, and a line play placed the ball on State’s 20-yard line. A long pass that almost found security in Schenck’s hands across the goal line was barely...

(Continued on page 8)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Fall Sports---
Are now on with the passing of baseball. We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting Goods. Call or write us.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Sep. 30, Oct. 1 and 2
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Case

ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
MISSES SHAPIRO and BERNSTEIN
Bits of Versatility
ACKLAND and MAE
Versatile Pep
JEAN LEIGHTON’S REVUE
In “The Temple of Minstrelsy”
HUCKLEBERRY FINN and TOM SAWYER
The Barefoot Boys
AERIAL DE GROFFS
Sensational Speedy Gymnasts

The ADVERTISERS in This Paper Are Responsible for Four-Fifths of Its Expenses. PATRONIZE THEM and TELL THEM WHY.