A FULL LINE OF PARKE® "LUCKY CURVE" FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

BERWICK — 2% in.
GORDON — 2% in.
ARROW COLLARS
Curve cut to fit shoulders perfectly.
CLUETT PEABODY & CO. INC. Makers

Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS
E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds; well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
611 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Brown's Cafe
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920.

Devotional News
PROF. SHUMAKE GIVES “Y” EXCELLENT ADDRESS
Speaks on College Boys’ Common Fallacies as to School Life.

Professor Shumake, the professor of English, made an unusually interesting talk on “Popular Fallacies in College Life” last Sunday night at the “Y” service. “One of the most common fallacies in college,” said Professor Shumake, “is that knowledge is acquired by loafing.” There is a vast difference between wise loafing, such as going out for athletics, reading good books, keeping the common touch, and habitually wasting one’s time by visiting. Cultivate friends who can help you. Don’t get the idea that time is plentiful. “Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for time is the stuff that life is made of.” You are mortgaging your future when you waste your time.

Another fallacy is that service is the most important thing in life. In college, preparation for service is at times more important. By being willing to do anything for anybody, you lose time in which you should be developing your mental attainments. For one can develop spiritually and physically elsewhere, but college is the finest opportunity to develop one’s mental equipment. It is better to do one thing well than six things poorly. If a man expects to be above the average, he should do something more than the routine work; he should do something new, something difficult. Don’t hesitate to encounter rebuffs. Train yourself to do something well that you don’t have to do, if you expect to be above the average. Professor Shumake in conclusion said that unless you link your life up with that of the divine, it will be like a beautiful lighting system that is not in connection with a dynamo.

TWO SHOWS ON SAT. NIGHTS
Found Necessary to Handle Eager Movie Fans.

The “Y” weekly movie sure gets ‘em all! Everybody comes and enjoys it. The problem of accommodating the crowd has been puzzling the management for some time. The attendance has so increased that with the present facilities, the “Y” is unable to accommodate the whole crowd at one show. In order to remedy this, Mr. Miles has decided to have the show on Saturday night instead of Friday night, and have two shows. The first show, which will be especially for the town people and the students not in either literary society, will begin at 7 p.m. The second show will begin at 8:30 p.m., immediately following the literary society meetings. This is expected to divide the crowd about equally.

The town people were disappointed at not being permitted to attend the show last Saturday night. Owing to the “flu” situation, Dr. McConnell, the college physician, ordered that only students be permitted to attend this show. This order will probably be effective only for this week.

VOLUNTEER BAND HOLDS DEVOTIONAL MEETING

The last meeting of the Volunteer Band was purely devotional. The band is usually so occupied with discussions and plans that the occasional devotional meetings which it holds are always warmly welcomed. This meeting was led by Wilkinson, who read an appropriate Scripture text and called for discussion. Then one and another, all around the room, testified to the importance of preaching the “straight Gospel,” as Dr. Whaling expressed it, in preference to following the newer creeds. Everyone was much impressed by the earnestness and fervor with which the various members made their testimonies. The next meeting will be given to a discussion of prayer, the Morning Watch, and kindred subjects.

NEWS OF OUR “Y” BROTHERS AT OTHER COLLEGES

At Washington and Lee there are 15 student-led Bible classes with a total enrollment of 225 and an average attendance of 160. All are led by upperclassmen. The leaders meet in a normal class each Monday evening, led by the head of the department of English. The majority of the classes are held on Tuesday evening. The text used is Fosdick’s “Manhood of theMaster." Thirty groups with an enrollment of 400 men are using "New Testament Ideals for the World Task" at Tech. Student leaders are being used entirely. These leaders meet on Tuesday evenings, using H. S. Eliot's book on leader training. This plan is proving very successful as witnessed by the fact that all the men in the dormitories and fraternity houses are enrolled, with an attendance record of approximately 98 per cent. At Mississippi A. and M. there is an enrollment of 985 out of a student body of 1,100. The estimate of the general secretary is that 60 per cent of the fellows have done real serious Bible study.

HOLLANDSWORTH ELECTED TO LEAD MINISTERIAL BAND

The "Davidson Presbytery" held a short meeting Sunday in which it elected Hollandsworth, moderator, and Bitzer, clerk. Hollandsworth gave a short talk on the value of secret prayer, asking especially for prayer during the coming Volunteer Convention. The meeting was closed by a short prayer led by the acting moderator, Hunter.

BIBLE CLASSES

A lack of interest has been shown in the Bible classes since Christmas. Three floors had no class at all and two floors only had three men out. The regular Sunday school lessons are being taught now and it is hoped that the attendance will increase. This week shows a gain over last week and 200 is the goal for next Sunday.

Chambers North Wing—
First Floor - 4
Second Floor - 4
Third Floor - 0

South Wing—
First Floor - 0
Second Floor - 0
Third Floor - 0

Georgia—
First Floor - 2
Second Floor - 15
Third Floor - 3

Watts—
First Floor - 12
Second Floor - 12
Third Floor - 14

Rumple East Side—
Second Floor - 8
Third Floor - 10

West Side—
First Floor - 10
Third Floor - 5

SUNDAY SCHOOLS

The attendance at the Sunday Schools was good considering the fact that flu is in nearly all the communities where there are schools. Only one school, Cowans, did not have Sunday School on account of the epidemic. The number at the other schools was as follows:

School. Teachers Total.
Brawley's - 25
Shearers' - 43
Mill - 40
Cornelius - 67

Roy Perry, 16, will begin housekeeping in a few days at 701 East Boulevard, Charlotte, N.C. Mr. Perry recently married Miss Eva Ballentine, of Easley, S.C., and is now engaged in business with the Parks-Cramer Co., of Charlotte.

The executive committee of the board of trustees of Davidson College met in Charlotte last Tuesday.

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d'hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

The Service Store

NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, bankers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, clergymen, by successful men and women the world over. ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN? The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer. 400,000 Vocabulary Terms. 2700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations. Colored Plates, 30,000 Geographical Subjects. 12,000 Biographical Entries. Regular and India-Paper Editions. Write for Specimen Pages.

Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N.C.

PLAY TENNIS
Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc.
Springfield, Mass.

The Commissary

ONE GRADUATE of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man. When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store