THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1920.

Founded by Class of ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
D. J. M. DUNLAP
A. M. MITCHELL
R. BITZER
B. B. BREITE
M. W. DOGGETT
M. R. DOUBLES
T. F. MARTIN
W. W. MOORE
J. W. PHILLIPS
J. M. RICHARDSON
E. H. TUFTS
J. C. WOOL
BOOKER L. MAHOOD
L. LISTON
R. CRAIG
C. B. N.
R. T. R.
E. CUNNINGHAM
M. P. C.
J. M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE
A. C. SUMMERS

Additional reporters for this issue are:
Fricker, A. F.; King, A. D.; Smith, I. L.; David, F.; Denny, S. T.; Manning, F. E.; Long, C. G.; Smith, W. C.; Ogden, H.; Mause, O. W.; Sander, C. W.; Gamble, W. W.; Bailey, J. C.; Beatty, E. A.

Business Manager
Assistant Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Managers
Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

Information from Louisiana Emergency Hospital Ward says that Askew will write another editorial on how to remain immune from the “flu” as soon as he recovers from his present indisposition due to this disease. Laugh and keep healthy is a wise saying, so why the necessity of cancelling the Lyceum number for this week?

THE CHARLOTTE SPIRIT.

It was not many months ago since the Davidson student body was complaining about the Charlotte attitude towards the college. It seemed like the newspapers were not interested in anything that Davidson tried to do—their athletic games staged were unattended, in brief Charlotte appeared to the students to be utterly indifferent and cold towards Davidson. Such an accusation cannot be made now. Charlotte’s newspapers and Charlotte’s citizens have more than made up for past neglect. A real spirit of fellowship and appreciation has developed on the part of Charlotte for Davidson, which is logically and actually Charlotte’s college. Those attending the State College-Davidson football game last fall will testify readily to the cordial reception and support Charlotte showed for Davidson. Those attending the recent Davidsonian banquet can justly praise Charlotte’s newspapers for their publicity and support and Charlotte’s leading citizens for their kind remarks and pledged support.

It would be hard to say what caused this change—it isn’t really necessary. We know that there is a great change coming over the two places—it may be that Davidson has shown that they wanted to be noticed and that they were relying on Charlotte for support. Whatever the cause is, let it continue until Charlotte will be 100 percent Davidson, and Davidson will be almost a Charlotte institution. We are indeed grateful to Charlotte for all that she has done. In return, we will play all the athletic games there we can and make ourselves conspicuous for Charlotte at every opportunity.

CUTS.

The past season for class and chapel cuts closed January 20 and we are now on the first month of the new season. Husband your cuts even if you are not trying to make the honor roll. You are making a mistake in cutting classes this early in the long, hard days that lie ahead of you in the lazy, dreamy days of Spring. And then when you miss a chapel you are breaking away from the healthy routine of three meals a day and regular hours. When you miss a class, excused or unexcused, you are missing something for which you pay not in money alone but in time necessary to make up the information lost. Lastly, it may affect your grade in that study, because no professor is willing to give as good a mark to one who is not regular in attendance.

The heights by students reached and kept
Were not attained by cutting class,
But made while their companions slept
Who had a struggle just to pass.

A NEW DISEASE COMING.

Another epidemic, more fatal to college grades and college success, has reached Davidson today and may prove very harmful later in the Spring. The most disastrous part about it is that it captures men with strong constitutions as well as the weak ones. It is very dangerous. The desire to be out in the open when the flowers begin to bloom and the trees begin to bud and when nature puts on new colors and new life, to be out of the dark and gloomy study rooms into the luring sunshine is almost irresistible. It is like unto sitting on the front porch in theMoonlight, when another is there. You remember Tennyson said, in Locksley Hall: “In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” So you see we are warning you ahead of the time of another danger. Fellows, beware of Spring fever and its accompaniments!

Good Advice. “Take plenty of exercise, eat plenty of good, wholesome food, wear proper clothing, keep your feet dry and you need not be afraid of catching influenza!” Is not this quotation familiar to everyone these days? Common sense always pays: in questions of sanitation, take the doctor’s advice! It would be indeed foolish to omit all precautions after the spread of the local “infectious cold” has been stopped and thus fall an easy prey to more hostile germs collected from all sections by the fellows who have gone home. But how many fellows really take regular exercise? Even if you respect the “integrity” of all your bones and the wisdom of the doctor’s advice too much to help make a record for your class in football, remember his advice about keeping your feet warm and don’t get cold feet on exercise! Take a regular hike around the track or a game on the tennis court, both seasons will soon be open, and retiring to try a boxing bout! The only prerequisite for a basketball game is a pair of rubber-soled shoes. (Just remember that U. S. As “hardboys” are neither rubber-soled nor heeled). How about it “Brass.”

Sunday Athletics? Say, fellows, of course the whole student body was “sorry” there were no religious meetings Sunday, but how many agree that a little football practice is a fit substitution? Of course, every fellow has his own ideas about his duties and privileges as a Christian. Although no system of hypocrisy is to be advocated, it is for outside reasons that this practice is to be most reasonably opposed. In America, the majority rules. Approximately 99.9 per cent of the fellows here are members of the Presbyterian church. Furthermore, the Presbyterian church endows this institution and actually gives each fellow over 50 per cent of the advantages he gets here. It is needless to state the principles for which both these institutions have stood since their founding until this day. Then do you think any fellow on the hill would willingly misrepresent that “old Davidson spirit” as even appearing to encourage Sunday athletics by indulging in them on the campus! Surely not, if he thinks about what he is doing!

“C.E.S.”

What Is the Difference? This is one of those cases of six of one and half a dozen of the other. We were to have a basketball game in the local gym last Tuesday night, but our far-seeing executives saw fit to have the Elon team remain from our floor in order that our skirts might remain unspotted from the “flu” epidemic. But—did we hear a warning against attending chapel in a body the following mornings or was there a ban put on an hour's lecture to the battalion? No!—this was not deemed wise. We ask you a fair-minded question: Which would be the most harmful—listening to a lecture or standing in a well-ventilated gymnasium and cheering your own Red and Black machine on to add more victories to our credit?

It was suggested some time ago that a public bulletin board would serve in the place of chapel and A.G. Oltman, Room No. 13 Watts, would not this be a good time to give it an initial tryout. But—what is the difference between six of one and half a dozen of the other?

E. Pluribus Unum.

Sunday Breakfast on Deck Again. In The Davidsonian for January 29, 1920, Typo brought forward a proposal regarding Sunday breakfast which I am sure met the emphatic approval of the student body as a whole. No doubt the ladies would be “more than glad” to put the cost of this meal into the Saturday supper or the Sunday dinner. It seems to me that the only thing necessary to put this plan through is for the student body to have a meeting and vote on it. Mr. President, it is up to you to call this meeting and it is up to us to abolish once and for all this Sunday breakfast which benefits only the conscientious (?) few and which is the cause of so much worry and trouble to the boarding house keepers.

Triplex.

FLOWERS Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C. Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States. DAVIDSON AGENCY

In nine cases out of ten, the man who once smokes a WDC Pipe becomes a life member of the WDC club. It’s as sweet and mellow as carefully selected French briar and expert seasoning can make it. Not only material of the first water, but craftsmanship of the highest order, and designs that are most pleasing—all combine to make the WDC Pipe a smoke of peace, contentment, and satisfaction. Any good dealer will confirm this. A man’s smoke.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., New York WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES