THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920.

Neglect has been compelled to surrender one of its most loyal alumni. His loyalty to his alma mater is shown by the fact that year after year, in increasing numbers, young men who were tutored by Professor Banks have come to Davidson for their college training, and always these men have shown the careful training that they received at his hands. To these, the news of his passing brought a distinct shadow of grief and sorrow, but his memory will live long with the ones who were schoolmates then, in the days of long ago.

Colonel Banks, Noted Alumnus, Passes Away

Great Educator Dies at Home in Ridgeway, S. C.

A distinct shadow of sorrow has been cast over Davidson alumni, and especially former students of his, by the death of Prof. A. R. Banks, 69. Memories of old school days were revived in the minds of many Davidson alumni when they heard the announcement of his death. He was laid to rest on February 26 in the New Unity cemetery at Fort Mill, S. C.

Alexander Robinson Banks was born at Hazlewood, Chester County, May 27, 1847, his parents being the Rev. William Banks and his wife, Mary E. Harrington. His early education was received from the best of the old school masters of the time. After serving as a young soldier in the last months of the war, where he became a drill master of recruits, he entered Davidson College, from which he graduated with distinction in 1869. He then took up the profession of teaching, and for 51 years spent his life in the work which he enjoyed so much, and for which he had a genuine passion.

Being suspected by the United States government of having a prominent connection with the activities of the Ku Klux Klan in York County, S. C., he, along with others, was forced into exile. He established at Pleasant Ridge, Ala., a boys’ school, afterwards removed to Tuscaloosa, where for many years it flourished. In 1875 the death of his father recalled Professor Banks to South Carolina. He then established the Fort Mill Academy, where he prepared and sent to Davidson many young men of South Carolina. His students were admitted to college without examinations.

After teaching and farming for some years at Fort Mill, he removed to Rock Hill, where in 1888 he opened with 115 pupils the first public school in South Carolina. However, the managerial side of school teaching did not appeal to Colonel Banks, and in 1891 he and his friends established the Presbyterian High School in Rock Hill. This was later absorbed by Winthrop College, whose location in Rock Hill was due in part to the inspiration for education which Professor Banks gave the community. He taught later at Yorkville, Lancaster, and Hyde Park.

Professor Banks was never quite in sympathy with the modern methods of teaching, for his work was essentially that of preceptor. He was a school master of the old type and was convinced that if a student did not learn he was in need of proper “pressure” and this did not often fail to do the work. Naturally, at the time some of his students thought him a hard taskmaster, but from the expressions to be heard since his death there remains not one but who is most grateful to their former school master for his stern books. He was perhaps the last of the old-fashioned school masters.

Upon America’s entrance into the war, Colonel Banks made repeated efforts to get into the service as a Y. M. C. A. teacher or otherwise. He was eager to go to France in some capacity, with the old First South Carolina regiment, but his age was against him. The last few years of the great educator’s life were spent in teaching public schools and tutoring young men for college. He declared that he was doing the best work of his life, and this is proven by the results of his work. Rarely did he fail to get “his boys” in when they competed for scholarships at West Point and Annapolis. Among his former pupils were numerous army officers in the war ranging in grade from colonels and lieutenant-colonels down to majors and captains. He was particularlyProud of these men. With the passing of Colonel Banks, the South has lost one of its greatest educators, the State of South Carolina has been deprived of one of her most noble sons, and Davidson College has lost a leader in requiring strict attention.

VISITORS ON THE HILL.
Miss Sarah Lingle has returned to Salem College, Winston-Salem, after a short visit home. After the last picture show Saturday night, the band gave a short concert which was enjoyed by all who remained. The father of A. F. Fricker, ‘21, was a visitor on the hill Saturday. Dr. and Mrs. Martin are still in Mississippi and will be away for several weeks. Among the visitors on the hill for the Charlotte-Belmont basketball game were Misses Sarah Dunlap, Elizabeth Fore, Margaret Smith, Naomi Alexander, Mariah and Augusta Rose, Edith Gilchrist, May and Willie Stewart, Martha Jamison, Fannie Moore, and Sarah Kelley. Welcome, Volunteers!

MISS SHAW HAS INCREASED USEFULNESS OF LIBRARY
Has Proven Herself to be Efficient and Faithful Friend of Davidson.
Following a business course at Peace Institute, Miss Cornelia Shaw accepted a position as secretary for Mr. Henry A. Page, in the offices of the Page Lumber Company, at Aberdeen, N. C. While here she conducted the village library. After holding other business positions in Dallas, Tex., and Biscoe, N. C., she took a trip to Europe. She then came to Charlotte and became Associate Editor of the Presbyterian Standard. After five years in this work, in 1907, she came to Davidson to take charge of the Davidson College Library. In the hands of Miss Shaw, the orderliness and consequent usefulness of the library has greatly increased. Even before the present excellent library building gave opportunity for the broadening of the scope of her work, her influence made itself felt in an efficiency that has been always increasing. Because of a universal sympathy and a cheerfulness that never fails, Miss Shaw is a friend much valued by Davidson men.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Gaze on this exceptional bill, then wonder how Manager Dardine does it:
Wednesday and Thursday
“THE CUP OF FURY”
And “MY DOG PAL”
Friday and Saturday
“THE PEDDLER OF LIES”
With FRANK MAYO and ORA CAREW
LYONS and MORAN in a Side-Splitting Comedy
And “THE MIDNIGHT MAN”
With JAMES J. CORBETT
MATINEE 5, 10, 15 NIGHT 10 and 20

ALL ROADS LEAD TO
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled
Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat?
Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Charlotte, N. C.
Agency 18 Watts

Buy a Phonograph
Get our prices.
We can save you money. Cash or easy payments.
MAGNESS & SAIN
301 North Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements, write D. S. BROWN.
Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

New Spring Suits for College Boys
New, up-to-date models at $25, $29.50, $35, $39.50, $49.50.
New Spring Hats in all new shades at $3, $3.50, $4, $5, $6, $7.
New Silk Neckwear at 50¢, $1, $1.50, $2, $2.50.
Silk Half Hose at 98¢, $1.15, $1.25
WE SELL Bion F. Reynolds and Ralston Shoes
BELK BROS.
They guarantee satisfaction.