SD. Let's All Stay For Commencement

THEDAVis. TAs? f THE ALUMNI ISSUE SONIAN D. Who Says We Haven’t a Track Team

FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 29, 1920. No. 30

WOFFORD COLLEGE CANCELLED | Chemical Fraternity Organized By Davidson Students

Alumni Association Meeting Called For Commencement

The R. O. T. C. rifle match with Wofford College has been called off, the Davidson battalion being forced to
withdraw because of conflicts with other military duties. The approach of the inspection by government officials has caused a change
in the local battalion’s schedule, and all extra time is being utilized in the perfection of drill. It is with
regret that this event has been cancelled and next year will find the Red and Black gallery team ready to
take on all comers.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

Davidson Huskies Defeat Clemson and S.C. University Track Team Wins in Thrilling Meets. Murrey, Brice, and Dick Star For Red
and Black.

By the close score of 51 to 48 Davidson won the track meet held with the University of South Carolina
at Columbia last Tuesday. The meet was fast and unusually good, the outcome of the contest being uncertain until the
finish of the last event. Brice won the deciding event when he passed Captain Mann, of the Palmetto State team,
on the last few yards of the 220 hurdles. The time was very good, and the weight events featured. Murray
led for Davidson by a count of 19 points, winning first place in three events, second in one, and tied
for third in another. He was also the largest individual scorer of the meet. Brice came second for Davidson with
a total of 11 points, and Dick won two first places, gathering in a total of 10 points and a
“D.” Sutton whirled the discus for a distance of 112 feet, giving the college record of 114 feet a bad
scare. Gentry and Green being pitted against more than their match, had to be content with a tie for third
place in one event, and Denniston almost won his letter, securing a second and a third place. The Davidson track
team won in six events out of a possible eleven. For the Palmetto State track team Seaborn had the highest
count of 15 points, taking one first, tying for another and two seconds. Smith was second with 7 points. Waite
featured in the shot put, throwing it to the distance of 39 feet. The S.C. team made a clean sweep
of two events, the shot put and pole vault, as the Davidson team had very little training in either of
these. The Davidson athletes made the highest average individual score of the two teams as both entered an equal number
of contestants.

Summary

100 yard dash—1st, Murray, D. C.; 2nd, Denniston, D. C.; 3rd, Smith, Carolina. Time, 10 seconds.

Half mile—1st, Dick, D. C.; 2nd, Crosby, Carolina; 3rd, Fricker, D. C. Time, 2 minutes 5.2 seconds.

High jump—1st, tie between Ervin and Smith, Carolina; 3rd, tie between Green and Gentry, D. C. Height, 5 feet 8
inches.

Broad jump—1st, Seaborn, Carolina; 2nd, W. C. Mann, Carolina; 3rd, tie between Murray, D. C., and A. D. Mann, Carolina.
Length, 20 feet 5.5 inches.

Shot put—1st, Waite, Carolina; (Continued on page 2)

Gamma Sigma Epsilon to Be Title of New Organization. Smaller Colleges to Be Eligible For Chapters.

The founding and the organization of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity at Davidson fulfills a natural demand. Back in
1913 when Dr. Martin was professor of chemistry, a club was formed among the students who were interested in the
fine and mysterious arts of alchemy. This society has struggled through lean and flourished in rich years until now under
the name of the Analyst Club it is merged into the Gamma Sigma Epsilon. All members of this old club
are eligible for membership in the fraternity.

Of the two remaining chemical fraternities, one is entirely honorary, while the other is altogether technical. Neither of these fraternities
are interested in extending to smaller colleges. Yet it is among these so-called “lesser schools” that the need for men
of science to get together is most imperative. For help and encouragement is quite essential during those very years. Fraternities
such as the Phi Beta Kappa and the Sigma Upsilon stimulate interest in scholarship and literary achievements. Yet the chemist
burdened with his long evenings of laboratory work receives no reward. It is the purpose of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon
to fill this gap. Abounding with a spirit of service for and devotion to the betterment of mankind, the Gamma
Sigma Epsilon proposes to bring that class of men who have contributed so extensively to the advancement of the human
race into closer union and fellowship. This fraternity lays no claims to having found the “Primrose path” in chemistry, however,
it can and will make the way more pleasant and congenial for the chemist.

Defeated Twice.

R. M. Miller, President Alumni Association

Any white male student is eligible, provided he fulfills certain qualifications, among which are: A minimum grade of eighty-five (85)
in chemistry the two years prior to his initiation, and a thorough-going interest in chemistry. Membership in this fraternity conflicts
only with obligations to other chemical fraternities. The Gamma Sigma Epsilon wishes to work in harmony. The second Elon game
was oneof and to receive the support of all the prettiest contests ever seen on other organizations. Sprunt field. The
charter members are: Louis P. Good, ’19; Manley A. Siske, '19; M. Ray Doubles, ’22. The following men have been
initiated into the fraternity: O. J. Thies, Jr., ’18; A. L. Foscue, ‘20; J. W. Witherspoon, ’20; R. R. Craig,
’20; J. R. (Continued on page 8)

N. C. State Game

After being rained out on the previous day at Guilford, the Wildcats journeyed to Raleigh to face their rivals from
N. C. State. The game was slow and lacking in spectacular plays. Davidson fell down on easy chances and five
errors on the infield’s part gave the Tech lads enough leeway to push the necessary tallies across. Currie pitched a
consistent game and with any support would have gotten out of the fracas with a better result. The “Big Boy”
caused nine opposing batters to retire via the strike-out route and kept their six hits well scattered. The winners scored
in the second, fifth, and put a brace across.

To The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.:

The Davidson College Alumni Association of Gaston County pledges themselves to urge all alumni to attend the college commencement and
to support the college in every way possible.

S. A. ROBINSON, President.

DeBerry, on the mound for A. & M., let the Presbyterians down with three scattered bingles and had them eating
out of his hand for the remainder of the route. The features of the game were two brilliant pieces of
fielding, one pulled by Norwood in center for the winners, who grabbed what looked to be a clean hit off
of his shoe strings while on a dead run. The other was a spectacular stop by Wood with his bare
hand of a liner down the third base line. The box score:

State. AB R H PO A E
Faucett, 1b 4 2 2 9 0 0
Gurley, c 2 0 0 10 0 0
Johnson, 3b 3 0 0 1 0 0
Routh, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Kirkpatrick, lf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Deberry, p 3 0 1 0 3 0
Wood, ss 4 1 1 3 4 0
Norwood, cf 4 0 0 2 0 0
Black, 2b 2 0 0 4 1 0
Totals 30 4 6 25 9 0

Davidson. AB R H PO A E
Ratchford, 2b 4 0 0 1 1 1
Cassell, 3b 4 0 0 3 0 1
Shepherd, lf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Richards, cf 3 0 0 2 0 0
Wrenn, c 3 0 2 9 3 0
Crawford, rf 3 0 1 2 1 0
McArn, 1b 3 0 0 4 0 1
(Continued on page 8)

Wildcats Drop Three and Win Two. Games Close and Interesting

State College, Wake Forest, and Trinity Take Hard Fought Contests. Elon; Miley Pitches No Hit Game.

The Wildcats returned from the second, fifth and put a brace across.

President R. M. Miller Urges All Members to Be Present. Important Subjects to Be Discussed.

Just a Word to the Alumni.

I want to join with The Davidsonian in an appeal to the Alumni for the largest attendance in the history
of the association, during the coming commencement. Our alma mater is on the eve of a wonderful new era—in expansion
and development—and the announcements to be made at commencement will fill our hearts with great joy and gratitude. The time
and the occasion will be opportune for the establishment of closer relations between the college and its authorities and the
Alumni Association, which relations, to my mind, are not as close as the conditions warrant. We are a part and
parcel of the college, we are an asset, and the greater the preservation of an asset, the greater is the
possibility of success. After four years of service to the association—poor as that service may prove—I am convinced that the
college and the alumni must get together, stay together and work together, if our hope for a still greater and
better Davidson is to be realized. Our meeting is set for 6 p.m. sharp, on Tuesday of commencement, which will
give us some three hours for our discussion and in addition, we are promised that we will have no interference
or interruption during this time allotted to us. We hope that the meeting will be, as it should be, one
of the largest, most enjoyable and enthusiastic in the life of the association.

R. M. Miller, Jr., President.

“What About That Class Reunion?”

Mrs. Robson, the efficient matron of the infirmary, is sick. For the past several days she has been suffering from
a severe sore throat. For the time being Mrs. L. W. Shelton, of the village, a trained nurse of many
years’ experience, is in charge of the infirmary.

Mr. E. C. Gunn, of Columbus, Ga., was on the hill for a few hours Friday visiting his son, W.
E. Gunn, ’22.

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.
Davidson vs. Presbyterian College of South Carolina, at Clinton.
Friday—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech, at Atlanta.
Bible Class Leaders’ meeting, 7:15 p.m.
Saturday—Davidson vs. Georgia Tech, at Atlanta.
Literary Societies, 7:15 p.m.
Movies, 7:15 and 8:45, Dustin Farnum in “Captain Courtesy.”
Sunday—Bible Classes, 10 a.m.
Y.M.C.A, 6:15 p.m.
Monday—Davidson vs. Furman, at Greenville. Last game of season.
Eu. Society, 7:15 p.m.

COMMENCEMENT May 23-26. Don’t Forget These Dates, Alumni!
