THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 5, 1920

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

PROF. MACON REED HAS WON THE HIGH ESTEEM OF ALL THE STUDENTS

During His Four-year Stay He Has Done Much for Davidson.

Macon Reed showed a patriotic spirit early in life, for he celebrated July 4, 1879, by beginning his earthly pilgrimage.
That important event happened at Charlotte Court House, Virginia. After preparation in the University Preparatory School, he entered Vanderbilt in
1896. After three years’ work there he went to the Presbyterian High School, where he taught for three years. Having
taught at Roland, N.C., for another year, he went to the University of South Carolina as Associate Professor of Mathematics,
receiving his A.B. degree in that year, 1905. After two years as a civil engineer in West Virginia and a
year as professor in the Peacock Military School, in San Antonio, Tex., he went to Fayetteville, N.C., where he built
the Donaldson Military Academy and ran it for eight years. He then came to Davidson as Associate Professor of Greek
and Latin.

For the past four years Professor Reed has been at Davidson, and in that time he has endeared himself to
those who have been under him in a way peculiarly his own. For precision and lucidity in explanation, for an
infinite patience in making clear every detail of a subject, for an accuracy and fairness in grading that is wholly
unequalled, Professor Reed has made himself known to all who have been his students. To all who have known him
he has ever been a pleasant friend. Though she cannot claim him as an alumnus, Davidson is proud to claim
for herself the honor of his services as a professor, and that that tie will endure for many years to
come.

K. C. Garth, '19, is working in a cotton broker’s office in Charlotte.

Rev. J. A. Boyd, '12, of South Charleston, W. Va., has become pastor of the Belmont Church, in Roanoke, Va.

Dr. McL. McDonald, '12, of Carthage, S.C., who has been ill for the past two years, has recovered sufficiently to
take work at Columbia, S.C.

Wm. Love, ex-'20, is in the cotton business at Columbus, Ga., since his return from France.

J. E. Johnston, '14, principal of the Reynolds (Winston-Salem, N.C.) school, has entered Columbia University to study school management, architecture,
etc.

Spencer R. McMaster, ex-'15, brother of J. C. McMaster, '20, is to be married to Miss Mary Frances Williford, of
Winnsboro, on March 30.

George Scott Candler, '07, of Atlanta, has been announced as candidate for solicitor general of Stone Mountain judicial district of
Georgia.

Rev. Hugh R. Murchison, '93, of Lancaster, S.C., has been made business manager of Columbia Theological Seminary.

S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES CORPORATION SOLD TO LASKY

Largest Theatrical Deal Ever Negotiated in the South.

S. A. Lynch, ex-'05, formerly head of the S. A. Lynch Enterprises Corporation, has just put over one of the
largest business deals known in the South, involving millions of dollars. His entire interest in this corporation has been sold
to the Lasky Film Production Co. S. A. Lynch was the sole distributor of the famous Art Craft and Paramount
pictures in the South. In addition, he operates theatres in numerous Southern cities.

E. S. CURRIE TO GO TO CHINA.

E. S. Currie, '12, is to leave soon for China as a missionary. While in college Mr. Currie was on
the Varsity eleven and a great gymnast. He was also president of the Y.M.C.A. During the war he was chaplain
of the Second Division and was known as the “Wrestling Parson.”

STUDENT BODY EXTENDS SYMPATHY TO BUCK CURRIE IN LOSS OF HIS FATHER

The Davidson fellows who know and love Buck Currie extend their sincere sympathies to him in the death of his
father, Mr. John Henry Currie. Mr. Currie, who had been sick for some time, died on January 21. He was
a farmer and lived in the Seventy-first district, in Cumberland county, N.C. He was a man of wide prominence, having
served both in the North Carolina Legislature and the National Democratic Convention. Mr. Currie is also widely known as a
Christian gentleman, being one of the most highly esteemed men in the section of the country in which he lived.
To lose such a father is a great bereavement, but to have had one is a greater heritage.

SCHEDULE OF RE-EXAMS.

The schedule for re-examinations has been made up, and for the information of all such unfortunates, this is given below:
The bell will ring at 2:15 and all who expect to take re-examinations or postponed examinations, will be in their
respective classrooms, on the dates indicated as follows:

Feb. 9—Profs. Douglas, J. Douglas, J. M.; McConnell, J. and Colonel Mueller.
Feb. 14—Profs. Shewmake, Grey, Lingle, Dr. Richards, and Mr. Jackson.
Feb. 16—Profs. Arbuckle, Currie, Reed, and Hunt.
Feb. 21—Profs. Woods.

A special date will be made later for examinations with Dr. Harding.

WITH THE FACULTY.

Dr. Harding is still in the hospital at Charlotte. Although he has suffered a great deal in the past week,
his condition seems to be improving. We hope that he will soon be back with us, able to carry on
his regular work.

Dr. Richards was unable to meet his classes for a few days last week, on account of having a bad
cold.

We are glad to know that Dr. J. L. Douglas is able to be up again and back at his
regular work. He was confined to his home during the greater part of last week, suffering from a severe cold.
For several days he was in a rather serious condition, but his illness only extended through Saturday, and this week
he is meeting his classes as usual.

Professor Currie was not able to be out for several days last week on account of bronchitis, but his condition
is now much improved.

Professor Hunt was not well during the past week, suffering from a cold and sore throat, but...he was able to
meet all his classes. Capt. S.C. Cumming, U.S. Marine Corps, recently spent a few days in Davidson visiting his brother,
Wm. P. Cumming, ‘21. Captain Cumming went over to France with the first contingent, has been wounded twice, and has
received two medals and six citations. He has just returned from France. Miss Ruth Wallace and Miss Helen Reagan, of
Queens College, spent the week-end with Miss Eliza-

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Lola Johnson is visiting at the home of Mrs. J. R. Reynolds, in Winston-Salem. Mr. H. S. Caldwell, ‘14,
has resigned from his position with the Goodyear Tire Company, in Charlotte, and has taken the agency for the Chandler
and Cleveland automobiles for Cabarrus County. His headquarters will be in Concord, N.C. M. H. Goodrum & Co. have leased
the building formerly occupied by the R. S. Johnson Company. They have enlarged their stock and sales force. Miss Mary
Richards was at home for the week-end. The Red Cross community nurse, Miss Lynch, from Mississippi, is expected this week.
Miss Dorothy Finlayson spent the week-end with Miss Aurelia Steele, at the cottage on Main Street. The college is making
a new walk from Concord Avenue, beginning in front of Professor Douglas’ home and extending to the Gymnasium. This walk
will be made of sand and well lighted. Poles are being set up and lights will be strung this week.

PEANUT PARCHER. (Continued from page 5)

At Guilford supper: Roberts and Allison left the table when the girls’ dismissal bell rang. We wonder why? Ask Mary
with the curl. At the Salisbury lunch room, and Crawford eating a ham sandwich a la mustard: “Take a Fresh’s
advice and get your mustard plasters here.” Hot Stuff!

Will Roberts, at breakfast — the morning after the Guilford defeat: “We can take the bacon away one way if
we can’t another.” Romefelt: “What kind of water is in this room?” Shepherd: “Running.” (Note)— So is Gig. Heard in
Raleigh Hotel: Rep Hall: Hey Lady— In Greensboro restaurant, when Doubles ordered a second glass of milk: Waiter: “Watch out,
mister, you’ll be mooing like a cow presently.” Peddler, coming through the train: Gig Shepherd: “Say, got any pumpkins?” Peddler:
“No.” Gig: “Well, sell the one on your shoulders then.” (More of that Fresh wit).

Another of Bob Allison's train jokes heard on the University Chapel Hill limited: “The engineer sets the throttle and then
comes through for the tickets.” “What time does the train leave?” Crawford: “8:30.” (Can you beat it?) Striebeck, to manager,
buying tickets: “Couldn't you buy a block ticket, Bob?” Shepherd: “What do you think this is, a wood yard?” In
a Burlington restaurant: Striebeck, viewing a kitten’s ears: “They make soup of the cat’s ears here.” Chalmers, picking up a
catsup bottle from the table: “Yes, we have some on our table.” Iglesia esta fuera—Gig Shepherd. (Unsigned) M. R. Doubles,
Sec’y Publicity Committee. Miss Eunice Blue and Miss Rosa Lee Jones were visitors on the Hill during the past week-end.
Ex-Coach “Bill” Fetzer was a visitor on the Hill the middle of last week. Band Has Become Important (Continued from
page 1)

Therefore, he has applied his thorough knowledge of military drill to his leadership of the band, and many of the
compliments which it has received are due to Sergeant Dunn's interest and skill. Thus the band has become an established
Davidson institution; it is here to stay. And we all agree that no other one thing has done more to
make Davidson attractive. It has also given D.C. a large amount of free advertising, which is one of the steps
in the realization of our dreams for “a bigger and a better Davidson.” The members of the band are: Second
Lieutenant, D. R. Freeman, leader and cornet; first sergeant, C. A. Dunn, drum major; sergeant, W. H. Harrell, trombone; sergeant,
W. C. Smith, bass drum; corporal, W. R. Booth, bass; corporal, G. N. Neal, alto; corporal, T. A. Freeman, cornet;
corporal, R. W. Holmes, snare drum; privates, W. F. Beck, trombone; J. P. Booth, piccolo; A. C. Buie, cornet; J.
D. Cox, saxophone; C. Cunningham, clarinet; H. W. Gunn, cornet; H. C. Hamilton, clarinet; H. M. Hill, trombone; I. L.
Hollingsworth, snare drum; G. R. Love, baritone; F. E. Manning, clarinet; K. L. McCutcheon, trombone; W. P. Nesbit, cornet; D.
H. Ogden, cornet; A. C. Ormond, Jr., clarinet; B. L. Shields, saxophone; K. D. Walker, bass; K. R. Warnock, saxophone;
J. D. Warren, alto; H. White, clarinet.

C. B. Bailey, ‘14, is manager of the Greenwood Hosiery Mills, at Greenwood, S.C.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? Have it fixed up by The Ben Vonde Co.
Expert Dyers and Cleaners Charlotte, N.C. Agency 18S Watts

The Bank of Davidson Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, DAVIDSON, N.C. Has Lock Boxes For Rent Your business
is solicited John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash. J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres. J. R. Beard, Assistant Cashier

STOP AND SEE Cunningham, the Barber If I can please you tell others. If I don’t please, tell me. Next
to Pressing Club

Knox and Barnette Entire New Line of General Merchandise Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings A New Line of Schloss Bros.
Clothing See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for
Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

DRY CLEANING MURRAY TAILORS PRESSING ALTERING COMPANY In front of Western Union Telegraph Co. 31 S. TRYON ST. Phone 429
and a man will come over with the latest styles and patterns for college men on the market. We make
a specialty of young men’s garments.

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought
and Sold
