GOLF COMES INTO HER OWN * TENNIS ALSO PROSPERS

Athletic Association Decides to Take These Two Games Under Its Protection.

At a meeting of the Athletic Association Thursday morning, it was unanimously voted that the association take golf and tennis
under its care. The students also voted to raise the athletic fee one dollar. Seventy-five per cent of this is
to go for the upkeep of the golf course and 25 per cent of it for the improvement of the
tennis courts. This will eliminate the five-dollar fee which has been charged for membership in the Golf club and will
at the same time give all the students free access to the course. This spring there has been a marked
growth in the percentage of those who are becoming interested in golf, and it is hoped that every boy in
college will learn the game. It has also been decided to give an appropriate “D” in this line of athletics
after this year.

Dr. J. M. Douglas gave a short and very interesting account of the past year’s work and the gains for
the Athletic Association. There was a loss of over $1,200 in basketball, baseball, track, and tennis, but the gains in
football covered all this, with a small balance in the treasury with which to start next year’s work.

After passing the resolution covering golf and tennis, two assistant football managers were elected. J. K. Price and McDowell Richards
were the ones receiving the largest number of votes.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

TENNIS TEAM TRIUMPHS IN THREE TUSSLES

Elon Defeated Twice—Lose to Dixie Champions in S. I. A. A. Meet.

Tennis activities for the season past terminated in a grand finale last week when the Athletic Association decided to take
that sport under its full-fledged guardianship. That toward which the racketmen of the past years have prospected has been accomplished,
and local tennists feel that a most successful year has closed in an even more successful manner.

Of the three inter-collegiate matches which the Wildcat team has played, a trio have concluded with the Red and Black
upholders as victors. Elon was the first opponent and incidentally the first victim. Hawkins and Spence journeyed up to that
institution during the last days of the past month and captured both the doubles and singles. Trinity was taken into
camp on a following day in the same thorough manner, a double and a brace of singles winding up with
Davidson at the big end. Elon came down for a return game the ensuing week, and Hawkins, Hall, and Spence
each won an event in the one-man affair, and the two latter wound up four years of play as partners
in doubles by securing two straight sets from the invaders.

For the second year, the team went to Atlanta to the S. I. A. A. meet for the championship of
the south. There they fought their way to the semi-finals, where they were eliminated only by the champions of Dixie.
Commenting on the match, a Boston Daily said: “Davidson put up a strong game against Texas, the latter being forced
to play her best to win the right of playing in the final. Texas, starting a driving game, was soon
forced to play way back in the court...”

Tulane, which met Texas in the finals, only succeeded in taking four games in three sets. The services of Dr.
Douglas have been inestimable, and it was his interest and support which made possible the great showing put up by
the team. Tennis this year has had the universal support of the student body, and indications point toward a continuance
of the victorious stride in the future.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 23, 1920.

TRACK TEAM WENDS ITS WAY TO VICTORY IN THREE CONTESTS

Good Best Season in Years—Make Fight in State Meet.

The track team this year was perhaps the most successful team of any turned out, winning every meet except one
and making a very good showing in that. The first meet of the year was with A. & E., and
our team won by a margin of eight points. This came as a big surprise to the Tech contingent and
it started a winning streak for our team. In this meet, new material was uncovered and the men on the
team hit their stride. Then the track artists journeyed to Columbia, S. C., and took the measure of the South
Carolina men in a contest in which we came from behind in the last four events and bested them. The
third meet was with Clemson, on the home field, and although the Engineers from South Carolina had a strong team
and upset the dope in several events, the Wildcats fought to the end and won by five points.

The State meet was the only one which the followers of the Red and Black did not win. These men
won four first places but did not have enough men to take seconds and thirds to make the score mount
up, and therefore they finished third.

Murray D** (Captain)

Murray is perhaps the best track man that has been at Davidson in the last few years. His specialties are
the dashes, in which he is always good for a couple of firsts. He broke the college record for the
220-yard dash last year and equaled his record this year. His record in the hundred is 10 flat. With him
back next year, we are sure of a winning team, and the showing of the team this year is largely
due to his training and coaching.

Brice D*

“S. D.” is the fit running mate of “Hack.” He is a fast man in the hundred and two-twenty and
is practically unbeatable in the four hundred and forty-yard dash.

Denniston

“Denny” is a track man from way back. He has had hard luck all season, but with things breaking his
way and a little more experience, he will make a good sprinter who will be a sure point getter.

The Men Who Composed This Year’s Winning Track Team.

Standing, left to right: Gentry, Streibich, Sutton, and Green. Kneeling, left to right: Dick, Denniston, Murray, Capt., and Brice.

Streibich D

Undoubtedly the find of the season was “Highpockets,” who one day went out and tossed the shot 39 feet, thereby
breaking the college record. He himself did not know it was in him, but about all he did was to
reach over and let it fall. “High” is also good in the hurdles and with more practice will make an
all-around man on the paths and in the field.

Green D

Green won his letter in the last meet of the season after trying hard all year. His events are the
high jump and pole vault. He has been improving in each meet and in the last one he won the
high jump, much to his own surprise and everybody else’s. Great things are expected of him before he leaves here.

Gentry D

Gentry is Green’s partner in the vault and high jump. He clears the bar with ease that reminds one of
McQueen, of former years. Gentry also is a point winner in the broad jump, getting over about 20 feet of
turf in one hop. This is his first year and he should develop into a track “Stud.”This is his second
year on the cinder path and he bids fair to be a stellar light before he leaves here. This year
he lowered the record for the 440 by two seconds.

Dick D. Dick is the man with the wind who runs the half mile and the mile. He runs the
mile and if he doesn’t feel too tired he also runs the half and wins that too. This small lad
from Clemson steps around the path with a stride that would make Ed Meredith envious, and the pace he sets
takes a good man to get anywhere near him. Next year he will be better than ever.

Fricker D. At last, after three years of hard work, “Franklin” won his well-deserved “D.” In the Clemson meet.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

PEANUT PARCHER

The deserted village—Davidson. Revised. There’s many a slip ‘twixt the Fresh and the Dip. Splash! From the way we've been
hearing “dips” talked about here lately you’d think this was a Baptist College.

Pup Food Scarce. This place is getting awfully stupid. Ain’t nobody pulled a good bone in a long time.

Notice! The Davidson Grand Trunk Line—from the campus to the depot—has ceased to operate and has gone into the hands
of receivers.

You Can Never Tell. Dame Rumor has it that an Annual is to be issued this year, but as yet
we know not whereof we speak.

Oh Yes. Professor on exam—“Now gentlemen, I have put up nine questions. Answer any ten.”

Try Calculus. There’s one thing the Peanut Parcher can’t figure out. Why does the college send our reports home and
send all bills to us?

You Can’t Beat Brains. Even a Billy-goat realizes the efficacy of the motto, “Use your head.”

The Irony of Fate. Going to the R.O. and not only getting no mail for yourself but pulling a letter
from your best girl to your roommate.

“For a’ That.” We were too tender-hearted to shoot a professor so we just flunked. That’s what we call being
a man.

Oh yes, Bob Stephenson, it’s all right to dye your mustache if that is necessary in order to make it
visible. But you should take a lesson from Mahood or Roberts before trying it again, for next time the stain
may stay on your upper lip longer than three days.

“High-pockets” Streibeck has complained to the Peanut Parcher of his being slighted while others received mention in this column. Mr.
High-pockets has just grounds for complaint and we ourselves do not see how we managed to overlook him.

One of the Mrs. Faculty to small talkative son who is indulging in too much gab at the table,—“Close your
mouth and go to eating.”

We know some mighty “big” men who only need one thing and that is tapping on the head with a
mallet. When a fellow reaches the point where he thinks that he is the only one of his kind then
most likely he is. There are several varieties of this species all of which are known.

A Gentle Hint. Send her a subscription to “Good Housekeeping.”

Funny. As time passed we flunked. The Peanut Parcher has adopted the dictum of a well-known salve for its motto:
“Rub it in.” That is, speaking of laconic messages, a fresh puts it all over our old friend Julius Caesar.
He sent the following telegram to his father, “Am S.O.L. Send B.V.D’s., P.D.Q.”

Seize your opportunity while you may—she might change her seat.

The Peanut Parcher requested some of the Seniors to submit a farewell thought in the form of some verses. The
following is the result:

(1) So long, dear old Alma Mater,
Nothing else could hurt me harder,
Than leaving you;
Unless it be,
Again to spend a year with thee.

Good-bye classmates, parting is sad,
But then at least we should be glad,
That we are now a lucky lot,
For but once more can we be shot.

Good-bye Chambers,
And Baxter, black,
We're dog-gone glad,
We'll not be back.

Leaving is sad,
But I am glad,
It’s not as bad,
As what we’ve had.

Eight Ways to Make a Fool of Yourself
(Given in the order of importance.)

1. Edit the Peanut Parcher.
2. Fall in love.
3. Try to make an extempo speech to an intelligent audience.
4. Mail the letter you wrote to Dad asking for $ to your girl.
5. Try to act sensible with a girl.
6. Laugh at a pointless joke.
7. Try to say something sharp.
8. Act like Tom Spence.

Q.E.D. We didn’t get a dip but we took a shower bath.

She—“Where are you from?”
Pierce Ormond—“Mississippi.”
She (absently)—“I'll bet you're glad.”

The judges by this decision on the Junior Oratorical Contest gave C.K. an opportunity to put his speech into practice.

The Seniors made the college a parting gift of a beautiful sun-dial which will soon be placed in the Parlor
of the Library where all who visit this place may see and admire. It has long since been the custom
of the graduating class to leave the college as a remembrance the most useless article they could find and so
to preserve the everlasting fitness of the thing it will be placed in the shade.

Thanx Freeman, Thanx. “We will close by singing the first two and last verses of number 29” said Jap at
a meeting over which he presided. Number 29 had but three verses.

Advice to Seniors on Getting and Keeping a Job.
1. Wear your college pins, emblems, medals, etc., on your coat lapel—the effect will be marvelous and instantaneous.
2. Act like you’re not aching for the job but will take it for accommodation—this spirit of helpfulness will be
admired.
3. Casually ask for a $10,000 salary as a starter—he might compromise and give you two-bits per hour.
4. Flirt with the stenographer on the side—a sociable gink has farther pull.
5. Use a foreign phrase occasionally—this is an earmark of culture and higher education.
6. Remember your higher education and lose no opportunity to correct friend Boss.
7. Get into every office argument to show your debating skill—also remember the nose is a soft spot.
8. Never neglect to put A.B. or B.S. after your cognomen—this is the only way you may have of showing
you’ve been to college.
9. Be dignified by all means—this is the prime requisite of a good bell hop.
