‘TSVSERSET | ca. Sodus eueceteerescos« ses iN 1 Ui : The largest electric sign in the world advertises WRIGLEY'S on Times Square, New York City: it is 250 feet long, 70 feet high. Made up of 17,286 electric lamps. The fountains play, the trade mark changes, reading alternately WRIGLEY’S SPEARMINT, DOUBLEMINT, and JUICY FRUIT, and the Spearmen “do a turn.” This sign is seen nightly by about 500,000 people from all over the world.

OF CHARLOTTE, N. C. Capital, Surplus and Reserves Over a Million Dollars WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Columbia Theological Seminary COLUMBIA, S. C. Faculty

THORNTON WHALING, D.D., LL.D., President of the Seminary, Professor of Didactic and Polemic Theology.
WILLIAM M. McPHEETERS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Old Testament Literature and Exegesis.
HENRY ALEXANDER WHITE, Ph.D., D.D., LL.D., Professor of New Testament Literature and Exegesis.
RICHARD C. REED, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical History.
JAMES OVERTON REAVIS, D.D., LL.D., Professor of the English Bible and Homiletics.
EDGAR D. KERR, A.B., B.D., Instructor in Hebrew and Greek Languages.
GEORGE S. FULBRIGHT, A.B., Instructor in Elocution.
WILLIAM H. MILLS, A.B., D.D., Instructor in Rural Sociology.

Smyth Lecturer, 1919-1920—A. H. McKINNEY, D.D.
Smyth Lecturer, 1920-1921—W. H. ROBERTS, D.D., LL.D.

Our most progressive Theological Seminary—Biblical, Scholarly, Orthodox, Loyal to Southern Church. Write to PRESIDENT, Columbia, S. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920.

Robinson Shoe Company We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s trade. Mail orders given special attention. Robinson Shoe Company Gastonia, N. C.

Juniors Acquit Themselves (Continued from page 1)

The orchestra, followed by the invocation by Dr. W. H. Miley. The first half of the 12 victims then threw the long-dreaded burden off of their shoulders. It might have been said mind, but that, too, seemed quite well exhausted after such a display of oratory and the expounding of so many facts (?). The orchestra then refreshed the audience with a few jazzy selections. The monotony was considerably broken by this Terpsichorean outbreak. The second section, after a little hesitancy, soon started the ball rolling again and should be given equal honor in the making of the exercises so interesting and amusing, because they were not lacking either in good sounds, logical reasoning or in wit and humor. It would be an injustice to try to point out the individual merits. Some had good delivery and not so weighty material while on the other hand there were a few good subjects and speeches that were not adorned with as forceful a delivery—however, they all had their merits. They ripped with Euripides and skipped with Scipio. Few had the eloquence of Demosthenes or Cicero, but it may well be said that oratory is not a forgotten art. Much to the disappointment of the speakers, the attendance was not as good as their speeches deserved. Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced each gentleman with an appropriate remark about both the man and his subject.

Saturday Afternoon. Dr. J. M. McConnell presided over the last session of Junior Speaking. The audience was as small as usual to begin with, but soon became larger than any other during the exercises. Most of the speakers divided their attention between the students onthe left and the judges on the right, it being very disconcerting to talk to the occupants of the center section. During the intermission, the orchestra rendered “Tulip Time” to the accompaniment of much floor tapping by the audience. After the last of the speakers had finished, Dr. McConnell addressed a few words of thanks to the hearers, and expressed his regret that more had not come to the exercises.

Those delivering speeches were: Allison, R. T.; Poteat, J. A.; Query, S. M.; Rogers, R. L.; Romefelt, B. W.; Baba, N. P.; Shaw, D. C.; Story, J. R.; Thompson, F. N.; Vance, C. R.; Walker, J. R.; White, H. There was one very prominent aspect of this speaking. It was a rare occasion that manuscripts were brought out, for the speakers knew their speeches well, and there was very little hesitancy in their delivery. All in all, this speaking was the best held in several years, and everyone had a fine time, for with fine weather, beautiful girls, and “more pep” everything went according to schedule.

Winners of “Reps.”

“Congratulations, old top! Fine speech! Made a ‘rep’ on that!” These were the words which cheered each Junior as he slowly departed from the scene of the forensic exercises, bitterly remembering how he had forgotten part of his speech, made a bad blunder, or was so nervous he could hardly speak above a whisper. And yet, somehow, the words of the speaker comforted him and made him believe that, after all, he had not done so bad. Probably he did have a chance at the coveted “rep.” That question is settled by the announcement of the following men as winners:

Eumenean Society: W. P. Cumming, Toyohashi, Japan; A. M. Mitchell, Thomasville, Ga.; A. P. Ormand, Davidson, N. C. Alternate: C. P. Meng, Pekin, China.

Philanthropic Society: C. K. Brown, Cleveland, N. C.; D. R. Freeman, Charlotte, N. C.; F. V. Long, Charlotte, N. C. Alternate: A. L. Currie, Fayetteville, N. C.

TRUSTEES TO HOLD MEETING.

A meeting of the trustees has been called for March 30th to discuss matters that cannot be delayed until commencement.

Nationally Known in No Time

Bevo has become the best friend of food and fellowship. Drink it for its purity and deliciously appetizing flavor. At the soda fountain or with your meals. Bevo must be served cold.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, ST. LOUIS

It must be Ice Cold. Sold everywhere; families supplied by grocer, druggist, and dealer. Visitors are cordially invited to inspect our plant.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.

Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?

W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers Rock Hill, S. C.

J. P. QUARLES, Manager CAMP SAPPHIRE BREVARD, N. C.

W. McK. FETZER, Director Athletic Educational Military

Six years of success and continued growth. Beautiful lake, baseball diamond, basketball courts, nine perfect tennis courts, canoe trips to Asheville, excellent food; numbers limited to 175. For information and catalog address the Secretary, MACON REED, Davidson, N. C., until June 1; after this date, Brevard, N. C.

PEPSI-COLA Stimulating Exhilarating