PLAY TENNIS

WITH THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 12, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Spalding Tennis Equipment
Balls, Rackets, Nets, White Flannel Trousers, etc. Full equipment for men and women, including Tennis sets. Send for catalog, A. G. SPALDING & Bros.

THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d'hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT. ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

Increase your efficiency, which results in power and success. WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in daily use by hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over. 400,000 Words. 2700 Pages. 6000 Illustrations. GRAND (Highest Award) Panama-Pacific Exposition. REGULAR and INDIA-PAPER Editions. WRITE for Specimen Pages. FREE Pocket Maps if you name this paper.

T. H. SPENCE, Editor.

The following notice was exhibited on Rumple’s Bulletin board Friday morning:

JOE STORY WILL
Tell of his trip to Charlotte this afternoon at 5 o'clock. All about being towed in “the last long (10) Mile(s).”

McCutchen, after looking at calendar: “Well I'll be darned if Easter don’t come on Sunday this year and we won't even get out of church.”

If your girl does not write as you consider she should, cut out the following and mail it to her. If she continues writing at all after you have done this you need have no fear—she's yours.

Rules Regulating Correspondence:
I. If you're saving ink do it some other way than by writing “C” for see, or “U” for you.
II. Never relate your love affairs in which I do not figure. Tell the other fellow.
III. The fact that you have other letters to write does not help me to feel content with a few words (37 for instance). I can't help your writing to others (I wish I could).
IV. If you really don't know how to write the kind of a letter that I crave, advise me and I will be pleased to forward some very good examples, written by experts, which have been pronounced O.K.
V. Don't fill your letter with “Current Topics” stuff. I read the newspapers occasionally.
VI. Weather conditions interest Meteorologists. I'm not one.
VII. Don’t apologize for not having written sooner. Probably your delay doesn't worry me as much as you might suppose.
VIII. Don’t mind saying something. You're not writing for publication.
IX. Write legibly on both sides of the paper only.
X. If I don't write promptly it means one of two things, either I haven't time to write or I don't want to. Post in a Conspicuous Place.

The Brown-Green Co. spent a delightful afternoon motoring to Charlotte Saturday. Their chauffeur blew for the crossings—thirteen inner tubes being used for the purpose.

Cartwile, this insults the astronomical world: “Galileo was the first man to see the rings of Saturn; he was in all respects a great astronomer; but he would have been much greater but for the fact that he had only one eye and that was glass.”

Baldwin sat down in one of Haney’s chairs which contained a prominent tack. Asked if he tore his trousers, Baldwin remarked: “No, but I pulled out the tack.”

This time of year we spend more time chasing raincoats than rainbows. It may not be so bad for students to forget to put on their leggings in the morning but some day someone is going to leave off some more responsible part of their costume and ‘ev ah’ regret it.

Employ “As Ever” only with discretion.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. Read the Davidsonian.College Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Wisconsin. The annual inter-class oratorical contest was recently held at Lawrence College. Competition between classes was not only in orations but also in class spirit and decorations, the percentage of attendance being a factor. The first prize was won by Yu Sheng Huang, who spoke on “What About China?” The Freshmen won first place for decorations and class spirit. —The Lawrentian.

Georgia. Oglethorpe Sophomores have drawn up a set of rules to regulate Freshman conduct. The faculty has approved the code. (1) All Freshmen must attend inter-collegiate contests. (2) All Freshmen must wear Freshman caps during the first and second terms, except on Sunday. (3) All Freshmen must respect upperclassmen. (4) Any form of gambling on the campus is prohibited. —The Petrel.

South Carolina. The South Carolina Press Association at a meeting in Greenwood formulated plans for the publication of an inter-collegiate magazine. The plans call for four issues a year and it is to be of a purely literary nature. The association suggested that it be called “The Palmetto Magazine.” Miss Kathryn Worth, of Converse College, was elected editor-in-chief, with five assistants to be elected from other colleges. The projectors hope to publish at least one issue before the close of this college year. —The Gamecock.

Georgia. A fire of unknown origin destroyed the dormitory of the academy girls at Piedmont College. Practically all the personal belongings in the building were lost. The students formed a bucket brigade to furnish water from the lake and by speed and teamwork saved the college auditorium. The college dean distinguished himself by risking his life in order to save three of the sleeping girls. —Piedmont Owl.

Tennessee. Maryville College is preparing for a high school basketball tournament to be played on the campus. The business men of the town are supporting the tournament by offering substantial prizes to the winning high schools. The Maryville quint will play the strong U. T. team during the high school meet. —Highland Echo.

Maine. The high cost of varsity athletics is shown by the report made by the treasurer of the Athletic Association at the University of Maine. The expenditures for the spring and fall of 1919 aggregate $12,250. The surplus on hand is about $113. The blanket fee for the spring term is $5.50. This tax pays for seven baseball games, two track meets and “The Campus.” The Athletic store has also netted the Association over $1,500 in the past ten years. —Maine Campus.

Mississippi. The success of the referendum vote on the League of Nations has led Millsaps College to continue the plan. One of the chapel periods was given over to an open forum discussion of Woman Suffrage. Fiery speeches on both sides were made, not only by the male students, but also by the co-eds. The next morning at chapel a vote was taken which resulted as follows: For adoption 30, Against 70. Millsaps seems to have their women well trained! —The Purple and White.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

L.A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.

THEY WIN IN A WALK
We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box, single or double breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

See me for your feeds
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
34 S. Tryon
WHITE'S MARKET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 25-W.
Cornelius, N.C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

How does the Bride call her Groom? Just WHISTLE

Men’s Fall Suits and Overcoats
You will find our Stock the most complete in the Carolinas
Everything Men and Boys wear --- the Best of Quality.
Stetson Hats
Edwin Clapp Shoes
Manhattan Shirts
We hope to have the pleasure of serving YOU
Mail orders attended to promptly.
MELLON’S
10 WEST TRADE ST.