Joe | THEDA VI Ree EGINS SONIAN FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 4, 1920. No. 22

JUNIOR SPEAKING JOYOUS AND JUBILANT JUBILEE

SOME SENIORS VIE WITH JUNIORS AS ORATORS

On Wednesday night the Forensic Exercises were opened by those Seniors who for one reason or another had not made their Junior speeches. The speeches were not well prepared and there was evident relief on the speakers’ part when the exercises came to an end. The speaking, on account of the small audience present, was held in the Bible room and for this reason, too, it was hard for the speakers to get any interest into what they were saying. D. P. Douglass and J. M. Jamison were perhaps the two best speakers.

Million Dollar Campaign Great Success

Million Mark Passed—Final Figures Yet to be Heard From

The latest figures on the Million Dollar Campaign show $1,004,918 has been subscribed, and still other contributions are to be heard from. The amount already subscribed makes sure the quotas originally allotted to the Presbyterian schools and colleges of North Carolina. This money is to be apportioned on the following basis:

Davidson College .......... $400,000
Union Seminary ........... $70,000
Flora Macdonald College ... $200,000
Queens College ............ $100,000
Peace Institute ............ $125,000
Mitchell College ........... $50,000
Elise High School .......... $16,000
Albemarle Institute ........ $16,000
Glade Valley High School ... $16,000
Grove Institute ............ $16,000
Westminster School ........ $16,000

In addition to her $400,000 from the campaign, Davidson has good hopes of $100,000 from the General Education Board and has a promise of $50,000 from an individual, so that she will come out of the campaign at least $550,000 better off.

The Million Dollar Campaign in North Carolina has been under way since July 1, and has been under the management of Dr. M. E. Melvin, field representative of the Assembly’s Committee of Church and Christian Education. The campaign was originally planned to cover 11 months, but was cut to eight months, and the fact that it has succeeded in the shorter time is an additional encouragement and an additional credit to Dr. Melvin and his helpers. This is the second big campaign that Dr. Melvin has “put over,” the other being one for $500,000 for Westminster College, in Missouri, when over $600,000 was raised.

N. C. State Captures Fought Game

Wildcats Start With Great Rush, but Opponents Too Heavy for Them

State completely outweighed the Red and Black on Saturday, and when the Wildcats had been worn out, forged ahead to victory, 37-19. For the first 15 minutes it was nip and tuck, Davidson having a lead of from five to seven points for the best part of the time, but time out was called, and when the battle recommenced State gradually worked into a lead which mounted to a score of 19-11 at the end of the first half. Ripple was the factor in this lead, and “High-pockets” Streibech was sent in to take care of the big forward. Ripple got six goals in this period. For Davidson, Romefelt, at center, did the best shooting, caging a pretty one from the center of the floor just before the end of the half.

The last half began with another rush, the Wildcats, somewhat rested, rushing things considerably; but again the weight of State put in its appearance, in Deal the other forward, who also shot six goals the last half. Davidson’s first goal came from Roberts, in the center of the floor, and didn’t even touch the hoop. It was during this period that Hall's ankle was sprained, and Ormond, A. C., was sent in for him. Doubles was then substituted for Brice, and in a few minutes the game ended, 37-19 State. This game was the hardest fought and scrappiest seen on the home floor this year, and was witnessed by the largest crowd yet. For State, Ripple and Cline did the best work, and for Davidson, Romefelt and Brice. The line-up is as follows:

N.C. State. Position. Davidson.
Ripple (16) RF Roberts (7)
Deal (14) LF Hall
Groome (2) C Romefelt (6)
Gurley RG Brice (4)
Cline (5) LG Chalmers

Substitutions — State: Parks for Cline, Williams for Ripple. Davidson: Streibech for Chalmers, Ormond (2) for Hall, Doubles for Brice. Referee: McAskill (Davidson).

Baseball Breaks Into Limelight This Week

First Call Issued Monday—Material Very Promising — Nine Letter Men Back

The crack of the bat sounded its initial call this week to the scores of candidates for the 1920 baseball team. Again we find Sprunt field in prominence and full of busy life. With better weather in view practice will be begun in earnest in preparation for the first game, which is with Oak Ridge on the 24th of this month. In view of the fact that this date is less than a month away, Coach Hengeveld is as anxious as the players to get the old limbs loosened up. Last week saw many of the candidates out tossing the ball around even before the official call came, giving a little idea of the material that is now on hand. Even with the air still biting and the winds a little cutting the fever is beginning to pull our student body from cover out on the diamond. The prospects are extremely bright and everyone is expecting the Wildcats to have not only a fighting

LYCEUM TO PRESENT FAMOUS CARTOONIST

Alton Packard to be Here March 13.

Hard Juniors Acquit Themselves With Honor---Would-be Orators Speak for Once Without Manuscripts

Best Preparation Shown by Students for Many Speakings—Speeches Live and Animated—“Reps” Announced Thursday Night. Friday Night.

Junior Speaking started off with a bang Thursday evening. The opening speech by Sample was very typical of the whole program: it showed good preparation and careful memorizing, but the speaker seemed in constant fear that he was standing on the wrong foot. Barnette’s speech was also of this type. Beattie’s speech was decidedly the hit of the evening. The keen witticisms and biting sarcasms in which his speech abounded attracted and fixed the attention of the audience, while the speaker very cleverly stripped Junior Speaking of all its time-honored glory and held it up for ridicule. His frequent use of campus phrases and his occasional lapses into the extemporaneous added greatly to the effect of his speech. Boulware and McKeldin showed excellent preparation. C. K. Brown’s address showed beauty of expression and delicate poetic phraseology far in excess of the others. An excellent musical selection was then rendered by Freeman, Shields and Buie. After this the program was continued by E. H. Brown in an ironical speech on “The Iron Mule” (tractor). J. S. Brown then delivered a very spirited address on “The Southern Highlander.” Carter urged the necessity of early reconstruction in a very forceful oration. Cassell closed the exercises with a lengthy discussion of the coal strike which seemed to interest the audience very much (probably because it was the last). Many are hopeful thatOur commencement guests will be allowed the privilege of hearing Beattie, but this is more doubtful.

Friday Afternoon.
The Friday afternoon section of Junior Speaking had a very cosmopolitan array of subjects. They ranged all the way from “Yamato” to “Our Next President.” H. B. Culbreth opened up with the subject, “The Inventive Genius of Young America.” He was followed by “Jap” from Japan, with the subject, “The Unfinished Volume” of J. M. Dunlap. J., which was both wondered and humorous. He is a recognized genius with the crayons; he entertains and instructs, and his audiences all over the country have been the largest and most appreciative that any entertainer has drawn. Mr. Packard will be here on the night of the 13th of this month, and anyone who misses seeing his cartoons and hearing what he has to say will always regret it. This entertainment coming when it does, on the 13th, will add in a large degree to the enjoyment of the delegates; and in order to give them all a chance to attend and insure them a good seat each, special rates will be made for them and a section of the seats reserved. Many of us no doubt have heard Mr. Packard once and so we at least know the entire success of his entertainments. All who have heard him spread their knowledge around and let’s all turn out and enjoy ourselves on the 13th.

An entertainment by Alton Packard is the next number on our Lyceum course. Mr. Packard is one of the leading cartoonists of the country today and we are indeed fortunate in securing him at Davidson. His audiences all over the country have been the largest and most appreciative that any entertainer has drawn. Mr. Packard will be here on the night of the 13th of this month, and anyone who misses seeing his cartoons and hearing what he has to say will always regret it. This entertainment coming when it does, on the 13th, will add in a large degree to the enjoyment of the delegates; and in order to give them all a chance to attend and insure them a good seat each, special rates will be made for them and a section of the seats reserved. Many of us no doubt have heard Mr. Packard once and so we at least know the entire success of his entertainments. All who have heard him spread their knowledge around and let’s all turn out and enjoy ourselves on the 13th.

National Oratorical Contest Preliminaries to be Held March 10.
The national intercollegiate oratorical contest will be resumed this year after a lapse of several years on account of the war. The subject of the contest will be Peace. The contestants are to suggest a plan by which lasting international peace may be obtained. The contest in this state is under the supervision of Mr. F. S. Blair, of Guilford College. The finals in the state contest will be held on May 2 at a place yet to be selected. The preliminaries will be held at Davidson about March 30. All the contestants are limited to 13 minutes for their speech. The first prize in the State contest is $75 and the second prize is $50, so outside of the honor of winning such a contest there is also material reward to work for. After the state contest the winner submits his speech to a committee and the best speech is given the national prize. The first prize in the national contest is $500. Any man can enter this contest and the more that enter the better chance Davidson has of winning the state and national prizes.

Saturday Morning.
The Old South and Its Wonderful Achievements, As To Striking, shows that The Sting of a Strike, Is the Queerest Thing in the World, In The Young Man of Today is found The Fountain of Youth, and is brought to the front by The Sunshine of Optimism in Perseverance. Also that The Progress of Astronomy helps the Reconstruction in Europe, but, Can She Come Back? However, Is It Worth While? In all this, though remember, Lest We Forget, Lest We Forget. Such subjects as these were the gist of the Saturday morning speaking. The exercises were opened by the (Continued on page 8)

CALENDAR.
Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.
Friday—Bible Class Teachers’ Meeting, 6:15 p.m.
Saturday Night—Literary Societies, 6:45. Debate on: “Resolved That Policemen, Firemen, and Other City Employees be Prohibited by Law From Striking.”
Sunday—Bible Classes, 10 a.m., “Y” service, 6:15 p.m.
Monday—Second section of the Eumenean Literary Society.

BOOST DAVIDSON, LIVE DAVIDSON AND BE DAVIDSON