PEANUT PARCHER

T. H. SPENCE, Editor

The Peanut Parcher welcomes the Volunteers. Don’t get the wrong idea of the lads here by supposing that the contents
of this column are true. They're not. If we printed the truth many of the little fellows would have to
leave the college. We don’t want the institution to suffer, so we don’t expose them.

“In the spring a young man’s fancy Lightly turns from Q. D. shirts, As he drest in snow white flannels
Meets a maid and with her flirts.

Why that proud and haughty manner He assumes toward all he sees? List my friend for there’s a reason: He
is wearing B. V. D.’s. This is not one of C. J.’s advertisements.

H. B. Brown: “Wonder why the radiators so hot tonight?”

Fresh Deaver: “An extra lump’er coal muster slipt in by mistake.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920.

The many friends of Mauze, G. W., who complimented him on his drest-up appearance during speaking will be interested to
learn the cause of his spincness. It was: The foregoing youth succeeded in hitting sergeant for a new pair of
U. S. A. hard boys just before the recent functions.

“I cannot live without you, T’wd never do.”

“Don’t worry, Boy,” she answered, “You don’t have to.”

If you like our work, tell others: If not, don’t read it.

Poteat: “Little boy, where’re you going?”

Little Boy: “Up the road.”

Poteat: “Where you been?”

Little Boy: “Down the road.”

We're not trying to run the whole paper, but why don’t they change the “Open Forum” to “Bolshevik’s Own.”

Her: “What makes you so strong?” Him: “I get a lot of practice.”

Why She Fainted. The moon was dark. The stars were dim. She kist the man She thought was him. He
wer'nt.

Jap Cummings is ready to show anyone the proper Jiu-Jitsu method of kissing a person, according to his own statement.

Frank Hall: “Hi, don’t you feel sorry for us having to stay here nine months in the year?”

Heighpocket: “Save your pity for Chambers, it has to stay here twelve.”

We aren’t architects but want to make a suggestion for the new dormitory: build it differently from Rumple, Watts or
Georgia.

Speaking it over. Its letter-writing time again.

ACE.Y.S.PAT.OFF.

Last week’s bone: Houston White combed the course for golf balls after Hawkins had been over it.

We go after waiting five minutes for a class. How long would we wait for a meal?

The basketball game between Refree’s Brice campfollowing and Platoon-sergeant La Far’s aggregation came off Friday afternoon. Belmont and Charlotte High
Schools played between halves.

The lights go off at twelve o’clock. The heat goes off at eight. Our dinner’s served somewhere ‘round two. Woe
to the man who’s late.

We realize that we are not in keeping with the latest customs in not pulling two at least once each
week: one on the servant problems; the second on the income tax.

The perfect end of a perfect tale. That day he was duly elected dog-catcher for his native hamlet. The same
day his girl fell in love with him.

As examples of perfect refrigerating plants our “steam-heated” rooms, before eight a. m. and after ten-thirty p. m. know no
equal.

Oh, its fierce to be stuck on Tanglefoot Like its fierce to be shot on classes. The same thing’s true
of tar or glue, But its fine to be stuck on lasses.

Acquaintance: Holding up a picture depicting an exploit in the life of “Jack the Hugger,” as the Chara-De-Lix would put
it. (Exchange heading of D. C. Magazine) “Say Liz, howyer like this?” R. T. L. Liston: (very innocently) “Looks to
me like a map of the world.”

THE SNAPPY LIME DRINK

GREEN RIVER is different from all its own—one that pleases thirst. Served with either or plain water at all soda
fountains—You’ll like charted OVER. Ask for it today.

SCHOENHOFEN COMPANY CHICAGO

Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

THE RALEIGH

CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE

Clothing For Spring

We are receiving every day shipments of clothing from

J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.

221 W. Trade St. Phone 3486

Campus Togs Fashion Park Hirsh Wicken and Kincaid & Kimball

There are none better or we would have them.

L. A. ELLIOTT

CANDIES FRUITS, ETC.

See me for your feeds. Come look them over.

WE DELIVER

THE BEST FRESH MEATS

Phone orders Solicited. 34 S. Tryon

WHITE'S MARKET CHARLOTTE, N.C.

We print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them—but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 216 N. TRYON ST.

PHONE 643
