THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

THE PHOTO BUGS

THINK THIS OVER.

No one thing does human life more need than a kind consideration of men’s faults. Everyone sins; everyone needs forbearance. Their own imperfections should teach men to be merciful. God is merciful because He is perfect. As men grow toward the Divine, they become gentle, forgiving, compassionate. The absence of a merciful spirit is evidence of the want of true holiness. A soul that has really entered into the life of Christ carries in itself a store of nourishment, and a cordial for helpless souls around it.
—Beecher.

J. M. WILSON, C. E. OF KY. STATE WILL HAVE MESSAGE FROM CHINA.

Fine Meeting In Store for Students at “Y” Sunday Night.

Mr. Jesse M. Wilson, who will speak to the “Y” next Sunday, is an all-round college man. While at Kentucky State he played both basketball and football, making his letter three times in one and twice in the other. And during his Senior year, he was selected captain of the all-state football team. Besides being a “good sport” on the athletic field, he was a “good fellow” on the campus as is shown by his social and fraternal affiliations and the fact that he was editor of his college papers.

After graduating with the class of ’11, in Civil Engineering, he sailed for China to teach in the Hangchow Christian College. For the past seven years, he has been the head of the department of mathematics in that college and is now in America on his first leave. Although a little off in weight on account of sickness while on the mission field, his smile is just as broad and he is just as full of “pep” as he was in his college days. Those who know him feel sure that he has a treat in store for the student body next Sunday night.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORS HEAR W. A. GAMBLE.

Good Work: Finding It, And Doing It, Thoroughly Discussed.

THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES

At the Powerhouse

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

This space Reserved for BROWN’S Inc.

At the regular Christian Endeavor meeting last Sunday afternoon, W. A. Gamble led the discussion of “Good work, finding it and doing it.” During the meeting, the motives which determine one’s work and the benefit that would be derived from such work were thoroughly discussed. Several members from other societies spoke of the good work accomplished by their home societies. Following this, a report was made of Davidson Endeavorers who had gone away during the past month.

Miss Gordon Bakerville has gone to Greenville, S. C., to engage in Y. W. C. A. work; Misses Lois Barnett, Charlotte and Elizabeth Cranford, and Sarah and Martha Hamilton have resumed their studies at North Carolina College for Women and Miss Jessamine Brown has entered Salem. Students who are interested in Christian Endeavor work will find the meetings of this society not only interesting but instructive. The society numbers among its members not a few expert Endeavorers who have had a wide experience in Christian Endeavor work throughout the South.

The Program Committee announces “Inspiring Stories from Foreign Mission Fields” as the topic for next Sunday afternoon, with Psalms 66:1-8 and Acts 14:23-28 as the Scripture reading. They also cordially invite Christian Endeavorers and those who are interested in this work to come and be one of them.

Miss Eloise Martin had a house party of Converse College girls last week. They were Misses Green and Reynolds of Greenwood, S. C., and Miss McGregor, of Columbia.

Christian Activities

THE MINISTERIAL BAND

The band was called to order by the president, F. V. Long, and it was quite a pleasure to hear the excellent address by Dr. Richards. Taking as his general subject “The Ministry,” he brought vividly before the band the great need of preachers and the wonderful joy gained by using one’s life so. And stressing the importance of winning others to the Gospel ministry, he appealed to each individual present to be ever on the guard for Christ and to speak a word for the ministry. The appeal was so straight to the individual that each was filled with an inspiration to dosomething this year in this great work. The address was followed by a snappy business meeting in which it was decided to hold the meetings every other Sunday for forty-five minutes, from 1:45 to 2:30 p.m. The meetings are to be conducted principally by the members of the band, in order to promote more ability in speaking for Christ and for Christianity in general.

HALF STUDENT BODY TURNED OUT FOR MISSION STUDY

Dormitory and Leader. Present.
Watts—1st Floor (Taylor)----- 12
2nd Floor (Wyman)---------- 18
3rd Floor (Roberts)----------- 17
Georgia—1st Floor (McCaskill) 7
2nd Floor (King)-------------- 11
3rd Floor (Crane)------------- 4
Rumple—East 1st Floor (Price) 7
3rd Floor (F. V. Long)--------- 13
Rumple—West 1st Floor (Richards) 5
3rd Floor (C. G. Long)--------- 6
Chambers—North 1st Floor (Brown) 7
2nd Floor (McGukin)---------- 3
3rd Floor (Lowry)------------- 5
Chambers—South 1st Floor (Freeman) 10
2nd Floor (McKeldin)---------- 20
3rd Floor (Cassel)------------- 14
Cottages—North (J. C. McCaskill) 19
South (Bitzer)---------------- 15
Louisiana—(Price)------------- 0
Town—(Miller)

TOWN NEWS.

Interesting visitors of last week were Mr. and Mrs. Wright, of Seattle, Washington, who had made the trip from their western home in a Dodge car and were returning the same way. Mrs. Wright was Miss Ruth Price, a niece of Dr. Shearer. Mrs. Charles Vardell, and her daughter, Miss Margaret Vardell, of Red Springs, N. C., spent the weekend with Dr. Martin. Captain and Mrs. Hearn are to occupy the Worth home on Concord Avenue this winter. Miss Helen Ragan, of Gastonia, N. C., spent the week with Miss Elizabeth Grey. Midshipman W. J. Martin, Jr., is spending his furlough at home after a summer cruise on the Pacific. His brother, Mr. Malcolm Rumple, recently of Columbus, Ohio, is also at home. Mr. and Mrs. Matthews of Charlotte have been visiting Mr. and Mrs. Miley for several days. Mrs. Weldon Schenck, mother of Lewis and John Schenck, was here for the opening of college. Dr. Richards and Mr. Hill attended the meeting of Concord Presbytery at Loray last week. Mr. L. R. Smith and family have returned to Davidson and are being given a warm welcome by their friends. Mrs. Fred Hay, of Kings Mountain, N. C., is here on a visit to her mother, Mrs. Lola Johnston. Mrs. W. N. Hudson and children, of Greenville, S. C., are guests at the home of Dr. Douglas. Mr. and Mrs. Pat Johnston have been spending some time at the home of their father, Mr. James H. Johnston. Mr. Johnston is in business with the American Tobacco Company.

The Book Lover’s Club held its first meeting of the new series Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. M. Douglas, the president for the coming year. The club will study opera and its composers this winter.

They have recently returned from Greece where Mr. W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President of Union Theological Seminary, has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

ELEGANCE AND CHARACTER ARE MARKED FEATURES IN OUR NEW COLLEGE CLOTHES

The style features are notably distinctive, the fabrics attain the eminence of elegance and the tailoring is handled in so smart a manner as to ensure absolute shape-permanence and grace in fit and drape. We welcome a visit to this young men's section where the fall styles are displayed.

“SOCIETY BRAND” and “FASHION PARK”
HANAN SHOES, DABBS HATS
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of up-to-date stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you. Send us your Mail Orders. We fill them the day received. You are always welcome at our store.

NEW FALL SUITS

We have on display our new fall suits, made of material and styles that all college boys like. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer. In these lines you will find Schloss-Hamburger and Style-Plus as well as other standard makes. These are made of all wool serge and fancy worsteds, single or double-breasted models.
$29.50 $39.50 $45.00 $49.50 $60.00

NEW FALL HATS

Stetson, Vanity, Roclof new fall hats are here---the very latest styles for young men.
$4.00 $5.00 $6.00 $6.50 $7.50 $8.50 Up

GENTS’ FURNISHING DEPARTMENT

Men's Dress Shirts made of best grade percale and madras---beautiful patterns.
$2.50 $3.00 $3.50 $3.95
Men’s Silk Shirts—big range of patterns
$4.95 $6.95 $7.95 $8.95
Men’s Silk Sox---all colors
79¢ $1.00 $1.15