WATCH FOR Volunteer ISSUE Virginia TRIP CANCELLED SONIAN Vol. VII. FOR A GREATER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1920. No. 19

Clemson Conquerors in Classy Contest
Game Hard Fought and Fast—Teams About Evenly Matched

The Wildcats failed to shake the hoodoo in the game with the Clemson Tigers, and went down in defeat by the score of 28 to 26. The game was clean and some streaks of fast play were noticeable at certain stages, especially at the beginning of the second half, when Davidson opened up with a terrific offensive. Hall, for Davidson, drew first blood by scoring a goal from the sideline by a spectacular overhead shot. Clemson came back strong, however, when Colbert scored a long shot. The play was slow after the first half, but Clemson shot most of its attempts, especially the long shots in which Davidson was not able to make any progress. Time after time long attempts would roll out of the basket for Roberts. Many technical fouls on both sides slowed the play considerably and poor passing did likewise. Clemson, by the foresaid long shots, enabled to draw away from the local quint and the end of the first half found the Tigers leading, 17 to 9. The Wildcats opened up the second half with a whirlwind attack and soon were only one point behind Clemson. Then the offensive cracked, and the remainder of the half was played in a see-saw fashion, first one side and then the other scoring. Clemson hit a stride a few minutes before the final whistle and completely shut down on the Davidson quint, keeping the ball under the Tigers' goal nearly the whole time. Schenck, for the victors, featured and his shooting and floor work was the deciding factor in the Tiger victory. For the losers, Hall and Roberts played well while Romefelt at center fought hard in the final period. The defensive formation used by Clemson at the tip-off completely broke up most of the Red and Black plays. The score:

Clemson Position Davidson
Schenck (7) Forward Roberts (12)
Colbert (17) Forward Hall (10)
Boggs (2) Center Striebeck
Cole Guard Romefelt (4)
Black (2) Guard Chalmers

Substitutes: Shepherd for Romefelt, Romefelt for Striebeck. Referee: Long, Charlotte "Y." Timekeeper: Douglas. Scorer: Schenck.

MR. JACKSON EFFICIENT BUSINESS MAN AND PROFESSOR.
Is a Great Asset in the College’s Administrative Work.

Mr. Frank Lee Jackson, our college Treasurer and Business Manager, was born in 1882. He was prepared for college at the Gastonia, N. C., High School. He entered Davidson (Continued on page 6)

“FLU” CAUSES SMALL DAVIDSONIAN THIS WEEK

Due to there being so much sickness on the Hill as well as to the absence of many others, The Davidsonian Staff and Reporters were in a very depleted condition when this issue went to press. In view of the above circumstances, it has been found necessary to reduce the size of the paper to six pages this week. The students are asked to bear with the Staff while handicapped in this manner.

SIT STEADY, FELLOWS. There’s NO CAUSE FOR A ‘FLU’ PANIC

Juniors Announce Subjects of Hoped-for Masterful Orations
Large Class Necessitates Five Sections—Subjects Cover the Seen and Unseen, the Known and the Unknown

To every Junior class at Davidson there comes only too quickly the biggest day they have had in their college career, and now the class of '21 stands upon the brink of this long-anticipated yet undesired occasion. Even now the casual observer has cause to notice the approaching storm by the muttering of some who are already fortunate enough to have learned their speeches. Occasionally is also to be heard the sound as of a thunder clap as these soon-to-be orators rise to the dizzy heights of some sublime climax before an imaginary audience, while practicing the orations which they hope will bring everlasting fame to their names. The class which will soon be so conspicuously placed before the eyes of the public is the largest seen in action in Shearer chapel, and for this reason there will be five sections of 12 speakers each. The speeches, if subjects indicate anything, will be varied and interesting, as they cover the seen and the unseen, the known and the unknown, the hearable and the—well, it is to be trusted that they will all at least be sufficiently interesting to hold the attention of the audience. Come early and avoid the rush. Below is given the list of speakers and their subjects:

First Section.
E. M. Alexander, West, Miss., An International Trademark.
N. V. Baba, Uramia, Persia, The Tragedy of Tragedies.
J. G. Barnette, Davidson, N. C., The Value of Athletics.
E. A. Beaty, Lancaster, S. C., Verba In Ventos.
J. R. Boulware, Jr., Eu., Lakeland, Fla., The Salesmanship of Chemistry.
C. G. Brown, Phi., Charlotte, N. C., The Young Man of Today.
C. K. Brown, Phi., Cleveland, N. C., The Success of Defeat.
H. Brown, Cleveland, N. C., The Iron Mule.
J. S. Brown, Jr., Phi., Hendersonville, N. C., The Southern Highlander.
S. A. Burgess, Kingston, S. C., What Davidson Needs.
W. W. Carter, Mount Airy, N. C., America’s Part in International Reconstruction.
J. E. Cassell, Christiansburg, Va., Was It Worth While?

Second Section.
H. S. Culbreth, Parkton, N. C., The Inventive Genius of America.
W. P. Cumming, Eu., Toyohashi, Japan, Yamato No Miria.
A. L. Currie, Jr., Phi., Fayetteville, N. C., The Task of Young America.
J. M. Dunlap, Phi., Charlotte, N. C., The Unfinished Volume.
D. S. Epps, Kingstree, S. C., Compulsory Military Training.
D. S. Forgey, Morristown, Tenn., Freedom of the Seas.
D. R. Freeman, Phi., Charlotte, N. C., The Fountain of Youth.
A. F. Fricker, Phi., Charlotte, N. C., Industrial Democracy.
W. C. Gaither, Newton, N. C., Diligence.

(Continued on page 5)

MISS LAVINIA BOYER
Sponsor of the Recent Davidsonian Banquet

A Davidsonian Banquet at Selwyn Hotel ElegantThursday evening at 7:30 o'clock at the Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, S.C., the management and staff of The Davidsonian gave their annual banquet for the year 1919. Under the management of C.J. Matthews, business manager, and with the aid of the staff, one of the most delightful and successful banquets ever given by a Davidson College organization was staged and carried out in every detail.

At 7:30 sharp, the young men assembled at the door of the banquet hall, and as each young lady appeared, she was accompanied by her escort around the table to their respective places. Then after the blessing, the guests were seated around the table, which had been decorated for the occasion with baskets of roses connected by long chains of smilax and favors consisting of menus of the banquet and individual boxes of mints, carrying out the Red and Black color scheme throughout. The table was arranged in the shape of the letter “T,” and the staff and their guests were seated on either side of the long table, while at the smaller table the toastmaster, Mr. Miles, and the other speakers of the evening were seated.

Mayor McNinch was prevented from attending on account of illness, but a note of congratulation was received from him. Mr. Askew was also unable to be there on account of illness. Those present were: A. L. Wilson, A. M. Mitchell, J. McD. Richards, Carl Matthews, J. W. Witherspoon, Hugh A. Query, R. W. Miles, J. Cassell, Fob. Caskill, G. G. Calhoun, T. Spence, J. Boneman, Dwight Chalmers, J. Gasten, Carl Long, L. Wilson, Hon. Tob. Kirkpatrick, R. M. Miller, Jr., Jasper Hutto, Mrs. M. E. Gray, Mr. and Mrs. J. I. Mallard.

Staff and Invited Guests Present—Interesting Speeches Made—Wilson Boulevard Promised

Flu Far From Epidemic Stage---No Need to Fear Disease Present Only in Mild Form—No More New Cases

Like a thunderbolt out of a clear sky came the flu epidemic upon Davidson last Monday. Within the 24 hours after the first case, there were 12 victims at the infirmary, and within 48 hours the infirmary was full and Louisiana dormitory was turned into an emergency ward. Forty men had reported and were found to have Spanish influenza before the course of the epidemic was abated. It ceased almost as soon as it had started, for since last Friday only three new cases have been reported. The type of influenza here has proven to be very mild. Only one student is in a serious condition, and the convalescent ward in Rumple is already beginning to fill up with those who are well but need careful attention. The following students have been the victims: Buchanan, W.S.; Davidson, R.F.; Forgey, D.; Gibson, A. V.; Wooten, I. A.; Morris, Z. A.; Lowry, Thos.; Hunter, J. E.; Horton, T. L.; Harrell, W.; Askew, S. H.; Whitesides, J.; Warnock, K.; Wright, F.J.; Sample, G.D.; Booth, J. P.; Ratchford, W.S.; Thompson, C. A.; Dantzler, M.O.; Bethea, I. C.; Morris, H.E.; Fleming, G. D.; Simmons, C.L.; Dick, R. L.; McCrummen, J.; Thompson, B. C.; Wilkinson, L. F.; Farmer, G. D.; Wallace, R.; Richards, I. M.; Brady, S. W.

Class Football Postponed---Will be Played Later

Bad Weather and “Flu” Epidemic Cause Athletic Association to Reach This Decision

At a meeting of the Athletic Association last Monday night, it was decided to postpone class football on account of the bad weather and the “flu” epidemic. The games will be played in the latter part of March and the first of April, so that the basketball men can play. Practice will begin about two weeks before the games, so as to make sure that the men are in good physical condition.

The games will be conducted under the general supervision of Coach Hengeveld, but each team will also have from its class some varsity man as its special coach. (No Varsity or D.C. men are allowed to play). Such football material as the association has on hand will be distributed equally between the classes and balls will be provided. Class football will cost the individuals less this year than ever before.

Most emphatically, class football is not being called off. It has been postponed several times in preceding years as there has always been a good deal of dissatisfaction about the date. Indeed, the association is working on a plan to have the schedule moved permanently, either to March or December. But there has always been some kind of class football. Class football was played a great while before intercollegiate athletics were permitted.

Mr. Miles, being toastmaster, on every occasion proved himself fully capable and became an inspiration to the speakers whom he introduced. Mr. Jackson was the first speaker of the occasion and emphasized very forcefully the need of a college paper to a college and how The Davidsonian of this year had come so near filling this need. Mr. Cassell spoke on “The Needs of The Davidsonian,” and Matthews on “The Future of The Davidsonian.” After this, Mr. Miller, president of the Davidson Alumni Association, spoke on “The Importance of The Davidsonian to the Alumni,” and since he believed that the alumni of a college were its greatest asset, he contended that The Davidsonian could be of greatest service to the college as a connecting link between the alma mater and the alumni. Mr. Hutto made some valuable suggestions as to the betterment of (Continued on page 6).