THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 26, 1920

Athletic News

RED AND BLACK TROUNCE WOFFORD BY 38-17 SCORE
Roberts and Brice Star for Winners; Hecklin Plays Good Game for Losers; Fast and Hard Fought From Start.

Gaining an early lead in the first few minutes of the game and increasing it gradually until the final whistle, Davidson won a hard-fought and interesting game from Wofford by a 38 to 17 count. The game was fast, despite the fact that numerous fouls were called, both sides committing many. Spectacular shots brought the gallery to its feet time and again.

The first half opened up with Davidson scoring a foul and a field goal in the first minute of play. From this time on the Wildcats were never headed. Wofford scored the next point and the remainder of the first half was nip and tuck, with Davidson drawing away from the Black and Gold in the final minutes. The half was replete with personal fouls, Chalmers being put out of the game in the first 10 minutes on what was seemingly a held ball, but unusually close refereeing put him out. Roberts was shooting wild, scoring five field goals in the first stanza. For the Methodists, Hecklin led with two field goals and six fouls. The half ended 19 to 12 in favor of Davidson.

The second half opened slowly, but after the first few minutes the Wildcats located the basket and from then on it was a walkaway. Heavy guarding on the part of Brice and Striebeck held the Wofford quint to a lone goal. Three foul goals were shot, making a total of five points in all for the South Carolina lads. Roberts and Romefelt shot regularly and after the middle of the half there was no doubt as to the final result. Roberts caged a neat shot from the center of the floor, which drew heavy applause from the spectators, especially the delegation from Converse College, who were out in full force with Red and Black colors on.

The features of the game were the scoring of Hecklin for the losers, who made all but two of his team’s 17 points, and that of Roberts for the winners, who scored 22 of the 38 points. Also the playing of Romefelt and Brice, who did splendid defense work, time after time breaking up Wofford attacks.

The score:
Wofford. Position. Davidson.
Hecklin (15) ........ Hall (2)
Johnson ............ Roberts (22)
Forwards
Neighbor (2) ........ Romefelt (6)
Center
Dillingham ......... Chalmers (2)
Nash ............... Brice (6)
Guards

Substitutes: Earle for Nash; Begg for Earle; Striebeck for Chalmers. Referee: McArthur, Spartanburg “Y;” Timekeeper: Vogel; Scorers: Hudgens, Ormond.

TRACK TEAM TO TACKLE TOUGH SPRING SCHEDULE

As the spring approaches and the weather becomes warmer the minds of several men on the campus turn toward thoughts of the “cinder path” sport. The prospects this year for a winning track team are very good, with four letter men back: Captain Harry Murrey, S. D. Brice, F. D. McCleod, and James Sprunt. Other men who have signified their intention of working for a berth on the team are Denniston, Mauze, Fricker, Leonard Dick, George Adams, and others.

Several trips are being planned, among which are meets with Trinity College, N. C. State, University of South Carolina, and also a meet at Chapel Hill with the colleges of this state and possibly one more meet at Atlanta with Georgia Tech and other Southern teams. Besides these trips, Captain Murrey is planning to have two or three contests on the hill with visiting track teams from some of the neighboring colleges. A meeting of the track men has already been called and work will begin in earnest as soon as the weather will permit.

VARSITY AND SCRUBS ENGAGE IN MIGHTY CONFLICT

In a hard-fought and interesting contest, the Varsity defeated the Scrub quintet to the tune of 42 to 28. The Scrubs opened up with a rush and had caged several baskets before the Varsity recovered themselves. The Varsity did not lead the Scrubs in the first half until the last few minutes of play, when Roberts shot from the middle of the floor. The half ended with the Varsity on the long end of a 17 to 16 score.

The passing and shooting of the first team in the second period was too fast and accurate for the Scrubs to continue the pace which they had set. Although the Scrubs fought gamely throughout the entire contest, the Varsity’s teamwork completely baffled them in the second half. Roberts for the Varsity and Hengeveld for the Scrubs were the main point gainers of the game.

Varsity (42) Pos. Scrubs (28)
Hall .......... RF .... Hengeveld
Ormond ....... LF .... Crawford
Roberts ....... C ..... Mauze
Striebeck ..... RG .... King
Romefelt ...... LG .... McAlister

Substitutions: Brice for Striebeck. Field goals: Roberts 4, Ormond 4, Hall 4, Brice 4, Romefelt 1, Striebeck 1, Hengeveld 6, Crawford 5, Mauze 3. Fouls: Roberts 4 out of 6. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

WHITE, HAWKINS AND FRICKER PUTTING GOLF COURSE INSHAPE

The golf players’ dreams are about to come true—the golf course is being cleaned off. With the approach of spring, the beautiful green links will be the scenes of great activities. The numerous stumps are being blasted out and the ground smoothed over. The shrubbery that would soon obstruct the view of “would-be” players is being cut down and burned. Special attention is being given to the seventh and eighth holes, so the players will no longer have to turn back after completing the sixth. Anyone interested in golf should not neglect this opportunity to play. New members will be initiated into the club for the usual small fee of $5. Balls and clubs may be purchased from Huston White at a low rate.

WHO WILL BE NEW COACH STILL REMAINS A MYSTERY

“Who is the new coach going to be” has been the query of many curious-minded students ever since the resignation of Coach Crayton. Many men have been discussed and the chances of getting them here figured, but as yet no definite information has been given out. It has been learned, however, that in the near future this mystery will be solved and the name of the new coach announced. Whoever he is, he will be the best that can be gotten and the prospects for a good year in athletics next year are very bright.

R.O.T.C. NEWS

The inspector, Colonel Palmer, will arrive in Davidson within a few days. All equipment should be in excellent condition, so that he can at least say of the unit that it is good looking. Of course, we expect to rank high again in military efficiency, but we want to do our best for him. All men who contemplate attending the summer camp are requested to call at the office immediately and give their names, inasmuch as Captain Mueller is required to submit a list of names, together with clothing measurements and other information prior to the end of February. If necessary, write home, but do it at once so that no delay will result. The summer camp this year is Camp Benning, Ga., Infantry School of Arms, where the last word of instruction in modern arms and up-to-date training is given. The camp will last from June 17 to July 28.

MAGNIFICENT BANNER REC'D. (Continued from page 1)

The seal of Davidson College is shown in black with golden letters on a field of red. The seal is arranged to read right on both sides of the flag. These colors are the most appropriate that could be used as the emblem of our unit, and our thanks for this beautiful standard are most heartily extended to Mr. Pharr for his generosity. Captain Mueller has written the following letter of thanks to Mr. Pharr:

Headquarters, R.O.T.C.
Davidson College, N.C.
February 18, 1920

Mr. James W. Pharr,
Charlotte, N.C.

Dear Mr. Pharr:

The R.O.T.C. flag arrived yesterday. It is a beauty and we are very proud of it. On behalf of the R.O.T.C., I wish to express sincere thanks for your very generous gift, and assurance that we will endeavor to prove worthy of the same. The deep affection which we bear your generosity and patriotism will be reflected in the honor that we will render this flag. This flag will inspire us to great achievements, and to emulate the donor by becoming big-hearted and generous supporters of the highest ideals of Christian education. It will likewise be an inspiration to the fulfillment of the obligations of true citizenship. Should you find it convenient to honor us with a visit in the near future, we will take great pleasure in having a presentation ceremony. If you do not desire this, may we not have you with us for a parade or a review?

With heartfelt thanks and deep appreciation, I remain,

Sincerely yours,
A. H. Mueller.

D. M. Gaston, '22, continues ill at his home at Aberdeen. His illness followed and resulted from his attack of influenza at Davidson in 1918.

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.
WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music.

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

PROGRAM

ACADEMY

Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.

Thursday, Friday, Saturday, February 26, 27, and 28

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

JOHN CUTTY AND NELLIE NELSON
In Song and Music

FRANK GILL AND FRANCIS VEAK
In “HELP YOURSELF”

GEORGIA CAMPBELL AND COMPANY
In “CAPERS OF ’61”
Assisted by Robert Buchanan, Archie Ruggles, Frank Daniels, Tim Joe Lina

KIRBY, QUINN, ANGER
In the Corner Comedy, “ON THE STREET”

20th Century Wonders
MANG AND SNYDER
Master Athletes