THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Managing Editor
J. BOULWARE, Jr.

Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK

Athletic Editor
F. G. McCONNELL

Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN

Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON

Literary Editor
E. R. McILWAINE

Official Photographer
T. M. GASTON, Jr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
B. R. A. MITCHELL
R. B. BREITENHIRT
C. M. R. DOUBLES
J. W. MOORE
J. A. KING
A. D. MANZE
G. W. ORMAND
A. P. FRASER
J. C. BAILEY
E. H. McGUIRE
D. H. OGDEN

Business Manager
C. F. MATTHEWS

Assistant Manager
T. L. WILSON

Circulation Manager
L. L. McALISTER

Assistant Managers
A. M. MITCHELL
C. H. LONG

EDITORIAL

Just one more week before the first ball game. Let’s get away to a good start and have a perfect season.

Have a little more patience, please, we have only one more issue before you get a new staff.

We hope the Volunteers enjoyed their visit here, for we certainly did enjoy their presence. If they can keep the Lyceum up to the standard of Saturday night, we vote for more Lyceums.

REVERENCE IN CHURCH CONDUCT.

Attention in Church this session has been somewhat better than in some former years but although there is a slight improvement it is far below what it should be. Among the several evils that are peculiar to Davidson, this is one of the most offensive and useless. Nowhere will you find such open and inexcusable irreverence with nothing whatever to provoke it. For a Christian college with a reputation such as the one which we now enjoy, our conduct in church is nothing short of a disgraceful shame. The fact that we are compelled to attend church services has helped to bring on this habit of indifference. This, however, is a result but not a satisfactory excuse. There is indeed no satisfactory excuse that can be found for misconduct during our Sunday worship. We are not Cradle Roll pupils, but are supposed to be men with whom the habit of gentlemanly conduct has been fully cultivated. Neither are we heathen, but professing Christians with whom respect and reverence for the House of the Lord should be a natural but inviolable habit. Certainly no one can complain of the length of our services. Ordinarily we are out of church, through dinner, and back in our rooms before the time for the benediction in the average church. Why is it that we can listen to a professor lecture for fifty minutes without any apparent fatigue or discomfort and then on the Sabbath are unable to control ourselves during a twenty-minute sermon? The trouble is not with the preaching nor with the length of the service but is with ourselves. Imagine the feeling a visiting preacher must have when during the course of his sermon he is repeatedly interrupted and annoyed by the misconduct in the rear. Can he go away with the feeling that the student body of Davidson is superior to that of any other college? Can he believe that the Christian atmosphere for which our campus has long been noted, has not been somewhat exaggerated and overestimated? The purpose of this discussion is not to bring up the issue of compulsory church attendance. That is an entirely different question concerning which it is not within our bounds to express the real opinion which we might hold. Our appeal is to the student body of Davidson, practically a Christian unit, to show the proper interest and reverence for the church of Christ and for the message of His servant.

LOOK AROUND FIRST.

Various things were learned from the delegates who were recently in our midst, some things being subject for print and others perhaps best left untold. One thing, however, was outstanding, we have a better spirit and a deeper love for our college than some of our rival institutions. Unless we are well acquainted with several other colleges this opinion may not be so readily agreed with. Nevertheless, the truth is that we have something with which all colleges are not so generously blessed. The feeling of dissatisfaction which seems to be spreading among some of our neighboring colleges should never take root in Davidson. We would not be considered as progressive if there were not some changes for which we are strenuously contending but for the present forget these minor irregularities and consider the big features and advantages which this college affords. Perhaps it sounds a little egotistical to claim that we have the best college there is but since we believe it why not say it, for ourselves at least? Other college men may not agree with us and would not be showing the proper loyalty if they did. We do not even wish to make comparisons but only to wait until we look around before becoming worried or dissatisfied. The old reliable testimony of the long list of graduates will make any Davidson man feel proud and desire to further the interests of his Alma Mater.

Open Forum

News About Our 1920 Annual.

It has been fully realized by the Staff and management of the 1920 Quips and Cranks that we entered upon our duties this year with a rather unusual condition of affairs staring us in the face, due to the fact that the 1919 annual was not delivered. Surely those of the 1919 annual staff can hardly be criticized too harshly for this, for without a doubt it has been proven that their intentions were good. Mr. Gilbert had the money on hand to pay for the book and Mr. Love had his material sent in, but by some fault of the express company or in some other way this material was lost or never reached the printers’ hands. To make a long story short; it was handicapped by a misfortune, due to no one person. Last fall Mr. Jackson and I wrote last year’s Senior class asking for a vote as to whether they wanted to still try and publish their annual or run their class in this year’s annual. The majority voted on the latter alternative, and their class pictures will appear in the 1920 Book. Then the matter was put before this year’s class and they voted likewise. The entire student body was made to suffer in a financial way because of the failure of last year’s annual to appear, and it is nothing but fair that they know where this money went. It is not the purpose of anyone connected with our annual to use one cent of the money from any man in the student body in any way other than that necessary to publish the Book, and in order to give the men whoPut their money into our hands some light upon the question “where has our money gone?” The management this year will publish a complete financial statement as soon as the annual this year has been delivered, which will be about May 15. This statement will include the amount received from the 1919 annual, also the cost of production of 1920 Quips and Cranks and money taken in and paid out this year. It is our purpose to relieve the men of the student body of the idea that by some means their money is hitting a mysterious trail. 

Harry B. Brown.

I Wonder If We Could?

Were you at chapel the other morning? I got there just as they started the doxology, and it sure sounded good to hear the old music again. Tremain, Freeman, and the rest of the five-piece orchestra must have “framed up” on us for they were certainly giving us real music that morning. I’ve forgotten who was conducting the service but he was thoughtful and read loud enough for all to hear. But it isn’t hard to hear now for you know we are using the “daily readings” of the Sunday school lesson and most of the fellows take this time to study up on the lesson. Buck Currie had selected “Beulah Land” for our hymn, and with the help of his quartette, we made the pink rafters ring. I couldn’t help but agree with David that “it is good to sing praises unto our God, for it is pleasant, and praise is comely.” If the “Lord’s Prayer” had been written for the occasion it couldn’t have suited better nor been more heartily used. No wonder the breakfast tasted unusually good that morning and classes seemed a little more interesting. I wonder if we could!

C. L. M.

DR. ARBUCKLE ADDRESSES THE CHARLOTTE Y. M. C. A.

Dr. Arbuckle made a very interesting talk at the regular meeting of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Sunday afternoon. The subject of the talk, “The Four Square Christian,” was taken from Proverbs, in which Solomon spoke of the wisdom of the ant, the spider, the conies, and the locusts. The talk was enjoyed by a large number.

EXCHANGES

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Girls Can’t Powder Noses.

Shiny noses are to be the rule rather than the exception at the University of Denver. The dean of women has ruled that girls shall not use powder puffs in public. First, because standing in front of the mirror wears out the rugs, and second, because it is not dignified for the girls to be seen by the men powdering their noses. —Ex.

Why Is It?

An increase this year of less than two percent in enrollment in nine strictly women’s colleges, but a gain of twenty-two percent in women enrolled in co-educational institutions is shown by a Boston Transcript writer. Smith College with 1998 students is the largest women’s college in the world, with Wellesley and Simmons second and third. But the U. of California has 3983 co-eds, Northwestern 2685, and Boston and Wisconsin 2368 apiece. —Lawrentian

Faculty Decides Question Of Service Men’s Numerals.

Diplomas of service men who have missed a year or more of work at the Institute will bear the numerals of the recipient’s original class, according to a decision reached by the faculty Wednesday. The ruling of the faculty provides that all men who were in federal service and have their discharge papers, and who left the Institute in good standing, shall, on graduating, be recommended “as of” the class with which they entered the Institute. The provisions are applicable not only to the Class of 1918, but to all men who failed to graduate with their class because of military service. The faculty believes this action to be favored by most of the men affected. —Mass-Tech.

University of Nebraska.

The students of the University of Nebraska have added “coal mining” to their curriculum. Nearly four hundred of them have been working in the mines of Nebraska and the neighboring states, in order to relieve the coal famine. —Ex.

Co-Ed Wins National Oratorical Honors.

For the first time in American college oratory, a woman has won an intercollegiate oratorical contest. Twice before have women achieved to national contests, but this is the first time that one has actually walked away with the honors. Miss Margaret Garrison of Willamette University, Oregon, was the victor in the National Oratorical Contest of the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association. She won over 6 interstate winners, who had already been victors over 1500 orators from 300 colleges. Miss Garrison won the decision by one point, and was awarded a cash prize of $100.

R. O. T. C. Voted Down by Vandy Students.

The students of Vanderbilt University voted practically unanimously to petition the faculty to either abolish the R. O. T. C. or else make it optional. There were only two dissenting votes cast. —Vanderbilt Hustler.

Winter Carnival at University of Maine.

The faculty and students of the University held a winter sports carnival last week. There were ten events including snowshoe races, ski races, and ski jumping. —Maine Campus.

What Do Students Read?

Contrary to the general impression, college students do not gather all their literary knowledge from “Snappy Stories” and “The Red Book.” A survey has been made at the University of Washington to determine what magazines were most popular. “Life” led with 82 percent of the votes cast, and “The American” was second with 69 percent. Practically every ballot contained the name of a scientific, business, or political magazine.

C. B. Fetner, ex-’12, has been appointed deputy clerk of the U. S. Court of the Western district of N. C., with headquarters at Charlotte.

Most men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction, and economy in a good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a good shape at your nearest dealer's, at your price.

WORL DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

Packard Presents Pleasing Program

Large Audience of Students and Delegates Delighted by Cartoons, Songs, and Jokes

Alton Packard furnished the best Lyceum number given at Davidson this year on last Saturday night. He delighted his audience with a splendid exhibition of cartooning, snappy songs, jokes, and humorous lecture. Packard’s series of cartoons depicting different types of American men and women were especially well received. The excellent color cartoon “American Home Ideals” closed his program. The last number was very impressive. The songs given were mostly of a dialectic type and judging them by the encores they received were extremely popular. Mr. Packard was very generous with his encores, one of his songs, he said, contained 935 verses and he gave as many of them as the audience wanted—most all of ‘em. Taken as a whole Saturday night's Lyceum was all right. Everybody enjoyed it and Davidson would give the cartoonist a hearty welcome were he to return.