4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 30 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

H. ASKEW................. Editor-in-Chief
J. E. CASSELL............. Managing Editor
J. R. BOULEWARE, Jr...... Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK............
J. C. McCASKILL.......... Alumni Editor
D. M. CHALMERS.......... Exchange Editor
E. A. HILL................ Forum Editor
T. H. SPENCER............ Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN............ Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON.............
J. M. GASTON, Jr.......... Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE......... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
A. M. MITCHELL
B. B. BREEDENHIRT
M. R. DOUBLES
W. W. MOORE
J. M. RICHARDS
J. C. WOOL
W. P. CUMMING
J. M. DUNLAP
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
T. F. MARTIN
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
E. N. BOOKER
R. T. L. LISTON
R. R. CRAIG
C. B. CUNNINGHAM
J. M. GILMER
J. P. PRICE

Additional Reporters for this issue are:
Ormand, A. F.; Wildeman, C. F.; Gamble, W. A.; McGuire, E. H.; Denny, S. H.; King, A. D.; Long, C.
G.; Calhoun, M. P.; Thames, F. C.; Booth, J. P.

C. J. MATTHEWS........... Business Manager
T. H. WILSON............. Assistant Manager
........................ Circulation Manager

EDITORIAL

Take any man’s advice. Sometimes it is all he has to give and you don’t have to use it.

It wouldn’t help the college much to have it published that a magazine couldn’t be kept more than 15 minutes
in the “Y” room, and yet it’s so.

We hope that the man who swipes the lights will be the first to break his neck in the dark.

If the basketball season gets rougher as it grows older the Colonel had better turn his K. O. T. C.
into an ambulance corps.

TAKING STOCK.

EVERY prosperous and progressive business house in the country sets aside a certain part of each year for the taking
of their annual inventory. At this time they take an accurate account of what they have in stock and compare
it with their records of the previous year to determine their gain or loss during the fiscal year. Each account
is carefully gone over and studied to find where the profits were made and how the losses could be lessened
or avoided.

If this system has proven not only profitable but necessary in the commercial world we can also apply it with
advantage in our individual life. Consider what you were worth last year, how much your output was during the period
and see if you are a better or a worse man today. How valuable were you to the world in
January, 1919, and what can you do today? Has your education helped you, has your advancement in age and experience
increased your usefulness, in short, has your progress been steadily toward your goal or has it left you further removed
from the realization of your ambitions?

These questions should be fairly and squarely answered. If your advance has been satisfactory then start with a renewed vigor
toward the next mile-post. If you find that your losses outweighed your gains, that your disbursements exceed your receipts, then
begin to study the reason why. You would think little of a merchant who saw he was losing money and
made no effort to correct the deficiency. You would respect still less the man who saw clearly he was wasting
time and made no change in his plans. Take your inventory now and outline a progressive and prosperous policy for
the next fiscal period.

OLD DAVIDSON.

Time and time again you have heard an alumnus address a student organization and tell of the things he did
while at “Old Davidson.” In publications the one epithet which is invariably used when making reference to the college is
the same, “Old Davidson.” It seems that the only term of endearment that one can use in an effort to
praise is “old.” Yes, we are old, our customs and traditions are old, our buildings are also somewhat antiquated, but
our spirit indeed has not reached a feeble old age. We do not take offense at being called old, we
are proud of the long and useful life which the college has led. We do not, however, wish to take
on all which the term might imply.

The spirit which pervades the various activities of the college is an enterprising and progressive spirit working constantly for a
bigger and better Davidson. The value of some of the old customs and traditions has been proven and they must
be retained. But, to be satisfied with these would result in stagnation. The share which we hope to get from
the campaign now in progress will bring new buildings and some new equipment into the college. The student body can
be made as large as accommodations will permit. Everything points toward bigger and better things, for we are working not
to abolish the “Old Davidson” but to keep “Old Davidson” forever new.

Social Editor

And some of them chanced to be
And when you’re trying awful hard
Some great big task to do,
You'll always win the victory,
If you play the whole game through.

EXCHANGE

Free Verse on Big Eye and Little Ewe.

Way back in days of old, for there are no such creatures now-a-days, there was a creature by the name
of Big Eye. Little did he care for his companion Little Ewe. There was always something that Big Eye had
done but never was there a word spoken about Little Ewe. Maybe Little Ewe had never had the chance to
do the wonderful deeds with which Big Eye had credited himself; maybe he was not quite so wonderful as his
great companion Big Eye. Whenever Big Eye began to tell of his wonderful exploits, all sat around and gazed in
wonder at such a great fellow, but soon the air becameSo stifling with the hot air of egotism that poor
Little Ewe and the rest of the hearers had to abandon the boaster and return to the memories of their
own unspoken deeds. Far be it from us to place a single stone in the advance of such a mighty
man as Eye, but let us one and all carry ourselves to the company of Little Ewe, who will not
say, “I did it all, listen ye,” but who with an arm of fellowship about us say, “We did our
duty, that is enough.”

The Other Man's Hat.

In the hurry and bustle of life’s busy ways, The faces are cheerful and hand-clasps are strong, And smiles are
so ready—there’s nothing in that. How little we know, as we’re passing along, Of what’s going on ‘neath the other
man’s hat. Our trials and griefs are so hard to be borne, Our worries are constantly dragging us down; There
are none who can possibly be so forlorn; Yet we mask with a smile when we should wear a frown.
We envy our fellows so free from all care, They haven’t a trial, we’re sure about that. Perhaps we'd go
crazy if we had to bear The trouble that lies ‘neath the other man’s hat.

He asked her for a kiss— She gave her permission. When it went to press It was quite an edition.

“Lives of Seniors all remind us, We can make our lives sublime, And by asking foolish questions, Take up recitation
time.”

The Questioner.

I cannot read the old poems, They’re parodied too well; I fear those tomes once cherished May soon no longer
sell, You spare not Keats nor Shelley, Nor Browning’s cryptic rime; I cannot read the old poems; I hope I
may some time.

I called the boy to my knee one day, And I said: “You're just past four, Will you laugh in
that same light-hearted way When you’re turned, thirty more?” Then I thought of a past I’d fain erase — More
clouded skies than blue— And I anxiously peered in his upturned face For it seemed to say: “Did you?”

The Letters I Have Not Sent.

I have written them, keen and sarcastic and long, With righteously wrathful intent Not a stroke undeserved or a censure
too strong; And some, alas, some of them, I touched my lips to his tiny own And I said to
the boy: “Heigh ho! Those lips are as sweet as the hay new-mown; Will you always keep them so?” Then
back from those years came a rakish song— With a ribald jest or two— And I gazed at the child
who knew no wrong, And I thought he asked: “Did you?”

I have written them, challenging, eager to fight, All hot with a merited ire; kept overnight, And mailed, the next
day, in the fire! Ah, blessed the letters that happily go On errands of kindliness bent But much of my
peace and my fortune I owe To the letters I never have sent.

More Truth Than Poetry.

I looked in his eyes, big brown, and clear And I cried, “Oh boy of mine, Will you keep them
true in the afteryear? Will you leave no heart to pine?” Then out of the past come another’s eyes— Sad
eyes of tear-dimmed blue— Did he know they were not his mother’s eyes? For he answered me: “Did you?”

Open Forum

A Plea for Boarding House Mistresses

The night before Davidson College Day someone at one of the boarding houses asked the waiter at what time breakfast
would be served the next day. Before he could answer, shouts of “9:00, 9:00” arose from the group of students
seated around the table. As a matter of fact, breakfast was served at the usual hour the next morning, but
this just shows the utter disregard which is shown at the boarding houses, for the convenience of the boarding house
mistresses. The students also show great thoughtlessness in the matter of Sunday breakfast. The time for Sunday breakfast is 8:30
o'clock, but the boys that go to this meal often do not get there till 9:00 o’clock or even later,
thus making this meal the most troublesome of the week, when it should be the easiest, as there are not
many there. This tardy way of doing makes it very difficult to get the dinner ready by 12 o'clock. Think
it over, schoolmates and friends, and see if you can’t be a little more considerate of the hard-working women who
are doing so much for you.

CAPTAIN CHALMERS (Continued from page 1)

Player a hard tussle for guard. Last year his faithful work was rewarded by a place on the Varsity and
his first “D.” This year he was selected to lead the Wildcats, and the prospects are that this skillful player
will be the leader of a most successful team. In addition to being captain of the basketball team he is
president of the College Y. M. C. A. Chalmers is a congenial, friendly chap, and there is not a fellow
on the campus who has not a warm spot in his heart for Dwight. As a brilliant student, debater and
basketball player he has made a name that will not soon be forgot.

FLOWERS

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C. Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city
in the United States. DAVIDSON AGENCY A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts.

Pick a good shape

ORFZPINE PIPES

Men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and economy in a good
pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French sweet and mellow. At
your nearest dealer's, at your price, WDC & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS
