On the Gridiron

THE TARBABY GOT WHIPPED BECAUSE—
“Gig” Shepherd made a touchdown,
And Brady kicked the goal;
Hammett tossed ‘em for loss of ground,
And Romefelt knocked 'em cold.
Little Spratt Moore dove thru the line,
“King” Brady played like a stone wall;
And Davis tackled time after time,
While none got by Schenck at all.
Douglas’ generalship was ace high,
McFadden played true to form;
La Far broke into each Carolina try,
And Poe hit the line like a storm.
Shepherd's bad ankle made him retire,
Cassell also had to withdraw,
But the Tar Baby sank, knee-deep in the mire,
Crushed—by the Wildcat paw.

A toast to “Gig” Shepherd, who produced the winning punch, that hoisted the Wildcats' Red and Black emblem over the proud White and Blue of Carolina.

All glory to Coach Grey and his fighting Wildcats for whipping the Tar Heels under normal conditions for the first time since 1910. We won from U. N. C. during the S. A. T. C., but they claim they were handicapped and that it doesn’t count. We had the S. A. T. C. here too. Nuf-sed!

Confidence plus determination won from Hope plus a much heavier team than ours. It seems that Lowe, the punting ace from Carolina, was not hurt as badly as it first seemed, for he played the whole game and did all the pigskin booting.

For once dope held true. Davidson beat Wake Forest 27-7. D. C. beat Richmond University 7-0. From this, it would seem that Richmond was about two touchdowns better than W. F., and that is just what happened for they beat the Carolinians 20-7.

Auburn vs. W. & L. was turned into little more than a track meet for the Auburn players. Auburn has a line averaging over 210 pounds from end to end, which is said to be the heaviest line ever gotten together in collegiate football.

D. C. against P. C. Result? Little or no dope can be obtained about the Presbyterians from S. Carolina except that they have a fairly strong team and hope to repeat what they did last year, which was a scoreless tie. That is the zenith of their hopes. But people don’t always get what they hope for. It isn't good for them.

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE NOW NEARING COMPLETION.

The basketball schedule as below listed for the coming season by Manager “Multi” Miley is still in a state of formation, some dates being still open and others pending. The home supporters will have plenty of excitement, in the shape of six real games on the Hill, while the team will have the opportunity of seeing the South in three trips through Virginia, North and South Carolina. Following is the schedule as it appears now:

January 28—Guilford at Davidson.
February 2—University of Virginia at Charlottesville.
February 3—Elks Club at Lynchburg.
February 4—Washington and Lee at Lexington.
February 8—Elon at Davidson.
February 10—U. of Florida at Davidson.
February 12—Open at Davidson.
February 16—Wofford at Spartanburg.
February 17—Clemson at Clemson.
February 18—U. of S. C. at Columbia—pending.
February 21—Wofford at Davidson.
February 23—U. of N. C. at Davidson—pending.
March 2, 3, 4—Trip through North Carolina, games of which are not arranged.

CLASS BASKETBALL.

STANDING OF TEAMS
Team Won Lost Pct
Junior 3 0 1.000
Sophs 2 1 .666
Fresh 1 2 .333
Seniors 0 3 .000

The first round of the inter-class series has just been finished and this week finds the teams entering into the last lap, with keener rivalry afoot than ever. The opening stanza has proven very exciting, close and many interesting facts have developed. In the first two games, the Seniors and the Fresh furnished little trouble for the Juniors and Sophs respectively, but in the four remaining games completely upset the dope, by the aggressive and formidable attack. A summary of the first round is as follows:

Juniors 19, Seniors 11.
Sophs 29, Fresh 12.
Fresh 23, Seniors 21.
Juniors 24, Sophs 20.
Sophs 26, Seniors 19.
Juniors 25, Fresh 23.

One marked peculiarity of the class series this year is the absence of any individual shooting. The leaders are closely bunched and rank as follows:
Mauze ('23,) 28.
Doubles ('22,) 25.
Ormond, A. P. (‘21,) 21.
McConnell ('24,) 10.
Crawford ('23,) 19.
King (‘21) 18.

SOPH-SENIOR GAME.

Last Thursday night the Seniors were defeated 26 to 19 by the Soph five in a very interesting game. During the first half both teams were rather slow and the passing was far below par. The passing of the Sophs during this frame was especially poor and only the stellar work of both guards kept the Seniors from getting more than twelve points to their opponents' seven. The Sophs came back strong in the second half, with a determination to win, that could not be broken. The work of Mauze at center was largely responsible for the landslide that completely overwhelmed the Seniors. When the final whistle blew, the Sophs had the long end of a 26 to 19 score. For the Seniors Ormond, A. P., and King did the best work, while Mauze and Bostic shot most of the Soph goals.

Seniors: Position: Sophs:
Ormond, A. P. (6)........... Tony (2) R. F.
Miley, W. H. (2)........... Bostick (4) L. F.
Heizer (2)................. Mauze (14) C.
Johnson................... Crawford (6) R. G.
King (9)................... L. G.
Substitutes: Brake; Freeman.

WHOLE STUDENT BODY TO BUY FOOTBALL SWEATERS.

In token of their appreciation of the hard work done by the football team, the student body voted last Thursday morning to give each man a sweater. For several years ithas been the custom for the freshman class to buy sweaters for the football men. In one respect it was a good plan because it helped the freshmen to realize that it was their team and because there are not quite so many calls upon the freshmen for money as there are upon the men of the upper classes. However, the cost of sweaters is so great now, that it would be a real burden upon any one class to pay for them and besides the team is backed by the whole student body and not by just one class. The plan as outlined, is to give each man a first-class sweater and some other suitable gift. If anybody deserves our admiration, it is certain that these men do. Working day in and day out, in heat and cold, in dust and mud, getting their flesh bruised and their bones broken, for the honor of the school, the least Davidson can do is to show their appreciation for this work.

RED AND BLACK MACHINE WINS
(Continued from page 1)

Brady kicked goal in his usual manner. Carolina was unable to show any signs of comeback in the remaining few minutes of play, so the game ended 7-0 in favor of Davidson. The line-up was as follows:

Davidson. Position. Carolina.
Schenck ................ Cochran Left End
Hammett (C) ........ Harrell (C) Left Tackle
Romefelt .............. Pritchard Left Guard
Brady .................. Jacobi Center
LaFar .................. Poindexter Right Guard
Davis .................. Kernodle Right Tackle
Douglas ............... Morris Right End
McFadden ............ McDonald Quarterback
W. Shepherd ........ Lowe Left Halfback
Poe ..................... Hutchins Right Halfback
Cassell ................ Spaugh Fullback

For Carolina, Lowe featured by his continued long punts, while Poindexter and Captain Harrell showed up strongly on the defensive, often throwing Davidson for losses in attempted line plunges. For Davidson, Hammett and Brady were strong points in the defense, while Moore, Shepherd, and Douglas did fine work on the offensive, Romefelt assisting them in bringing home the bacon not only in regard to his work in the game, but even in actual facts. Substitutions were: For Carolina: T. Shepherd for Cochran, McGee for Hutchins, Hanby for Kernodle. For Davidson: N. Shepherd for Poe, Long for Cassell, Sizer for N. Shepherd, Poe for Sizer. Time of quarters: 15 minutes. Referee: Rip Major (Auburn); umpire: Williams (Virginia); head linesman: Denney (Davidson-V. P. I.)

WITH OUR TENNIS TEAM.

Davidson’s tennis team has begun right. The bunch began practice early in September and got in a good trip before cold weather. At Trinity, Elon, and Wake Forest the team had great success. The first two schools were defeated, while the last named came out on top. A return engagement has been scheduled with Trinity and Elon for next spring. These two matches will probably result in the same hot matches as the one of this Fall. In case this is so, some good tennis is in store for the local fans. Besides these matches, a trip to Greensboro for the State Championship meet is booked. This is an important affair and Davidson is expecting to win a few honors here. Then comes the S. I. A. A. championships, in Atlanta, to which the Wildcats will send representatives. The two men making the last trip were Bradley, S. H., and Ormond, A. C. These two won the doubles tournament here at school and therefore represented us abroad. Between them, most of the court advantages are held. They are sure, steady players, and are expected to do excellent work during the season of 1921. Bradley is the singles man of the team; he seems to have worlds of stuff and an unusual ability which places him among the best in the state. Cunningham and Morris make up the alternate pair. They succeeded in giving Bradley and Ormond a hot fight for first honors in the Davidson tournament. They have shown considerable form and the corking good game they play will be needed in many matches next spring.

PRESBYTERIANS AGAINST PRESBYTERIANS.

Davidson Seeks Revenge for Last Year's Tie With P. C.

With five games safely tucked away, the Wildcats are preparing to invade South Carolina Saturday, and meet their ancient rivals, P. C. Emerging fresh from their defeat of North Carolina, 7-0, the “Cats” feel confident of revenging the scoreless tie of last year. However, the boys from Clinton are sure to put up a strong fight. Last year Davidson met them here and struck a tartar, with their coach at the point of death in a Charlotte hospital, the “Blue Stockings” fought like mad. The two teams have both met South Carolina. Davidson was able to defeat U. S. C. by a safe score, while P. C. of S. C. came out on the short end of the score with the Gamecocks. The scores were Davidson 27, South Carolina 0; Presbyterian College 0, South Carolina 4. But the dope is liable to be upset as it was last year. While all Davidson supporters feel confident, they will not rest easy until P. C.’s hide is safely stowed away with those of North and South Carolina, University of Richmond, Citadel, and Wake Forest.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Athletes know our place for the best grade of goods and reasonable prices. We sell and satisfy, and that is why we grow.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Nov. 18, 19 and 20

OVERTURE
Direction Paul F. Care

ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS

THE CLINTON SISTERS
Cartooning in Danceland

HOLMES AND HOLLIS
Present a Capsule Comedy with Song

M. ALPHONSE BERG
Presents Himself in “Fashions De Vogue”

WILL HALLIDAY AND CURLEY BURNS
Present “The Prospectors,” a Travesty in Oil

DONALD SISTERS
Handy Balancers