THED Vin a i FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 19, 1920. No. 11

DAVIDSON ELEVEN DOWNS TARHEELS BY LONE TOUCHDOWN

MEMORABLE EXERCISES MARK CELEBRATION OF ARMISTICE DAY

Loyalty to Country and College Emphasized in Celebration of Nov. 11

Speakers Hold Attention of Students

"R. O. T. C. Parades in the Afternoon Morning Program"

On Thursday, November 11, the faculty and students observed Davidson College Day and Armistice Day in a combined program. The
morning program was given to addresses which breathed loyalty to college and to country. The spirit of the day was
beautifully set forth in the devotionals conducted by the pastor of the College Church, Dr. C. M. Richards, at the
opening of the morning exercises.

The chief speaker at the exercises held in the morning was Mr. F. B. McDowell, of Charlotte, N. C., who
graduated with the class of 1869. His stories of the old days, and his flashes of wit were delightful. Mr.
McDowell presented to the college a pair of snuffers and a heavy china cup and saucer as relics of those
other days.

President A. L. (“Buck”) Currie, of the student body, spoke of the progress of Davidson in numbers and equipment in
the past few years, and pointed forward to “greater things than these” in the days ahead. Dr. T. W. Lingle,
of the faculty, read a brief summary prepared by Miss Shaw on the part Davidson men took in the war.
There were 364 officers and 725 enlisted men in the army and 223 men in the Student Army Training Corps.

Prof. A. Currie read a paper in which he presented three of the many desirable characteristics found in Davidson College
students: a thorough and profound scholarship, an educated business sagacity, and an unselfish devotion to the welfare of others. He
cited one alumnus who exemplifies each of the characteristics named.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the faculty, read the honor roll of “Our Davidson Dead” while all present stood. He
then paid a beautiful tribute to those of Davidson’s men who went “not with pomp, but quietly and yet with
buoyant spirits as they looked forward to having a part in the struggle for righteousness.”

The Davidson College R. O. T. C. Band, which had enlivened the program from time to time, closed the exercises
with “The Star-Spangled Banner” and the college song, “O Davidson.”

The R. O. T. C. celebrated Armistice Day with a parade, a review, and a presentation of Victory medals. The
four companies of the battalion came upon the parade ground in regular order with the exception of C Company. This
company, by taking first honors last year, was on the extreme left of the battalion. From this position it moved
out in front of the other companies, then marched to the armory to receive the flag, from which place it
escorted the emblem back and presented it to the battalion.

After the various formalities of the parade were gone through, the adjutant called out in front of the battalion the
24 men who were to receive Victory medals. The medals were pinned on the men by Captain Hearn, commandant of
the R. O. T. C., who also received one. The Victory medal is given to all ex-service men who desire
one and there were a good many others in the college and town who were eligible but did not care
to have them presented in so formal a manner.

(Continued on page 8)

In the afternoon interesting military exercises were held.

Davidson, Yesterday and Today

Article 1. Buildings

Davidson 50 years ago! How many have any idea of what the campus of Old Davidson looked like at that
time? The purpose of this article shall be to set forth facts about the Davidson of yesterday—the Davidson of 50
years ago—and the Davidson of today; together with certain material concerning the intervening period giving pictures of campus life, student
rules and regulations, student publications, and any other obtainable information which may be interesting to a reader of today. It
is planned to run this article in The Davidsonian in installments. This, the first installment, deals with the appearance of
the campus 40 years ago and that of today.

Forty years is a long time. Look forward in your mind to the far distant time when you shall be
40 years old, and think of all your hopes for the intervening years; and then look backward in your memory
to the long-ago time when you were in childhood. Then combine these two stretches of time into one long period
of succeeding years extending backward into the dim past, and you obtain a faint idea of how long it has
been since the year 1880.

In 1880 there were only eight buildings on the campus. Chief among these was Chambers. The old chapel stood where
Shearer Hall now stands. Steward’s Hall stood approximately where the Library is now situated. Just in front of the Library
today there is an old wall which is a remnant of Steward’s Hall. Oak Row, Elm Row, the Eumenean Hall,
and the Philanthropic Society Hall were standing then as they are today. The only other building on the campus was
a dormitory called Tammany, which was located just south of Elm Row. The main part of our present beautiful campus
was a cotton patch under the care of the present Mr. Helper’s father. Where the church is now situated was
then planted in cotton, the field reaching clear up to Chambers, and there were only a very few trees on
the campus. The whole place was surrounded by a high board fence—possibly to keep the Freshmen from getting lost.

In 1901 Tammany was torn down and the Martin chemical laboratory erected. In 1902 the old chapel was remodeled into
Shearer Hall. Rumple was built in 1903 and Watts in 1906. In 1909 Steward’s Hall was torn down to make
room for our present splendid library building. Georgia was completed in 1909 and the library in 1910. The gymnasium was
completed in 1917. Through all these years Chambers has stood, a monument to the good old days.

(Continued on page 8)

Debaters Selected to Meet Randolph-Macon

Brown and McKeithen Awarded Places by Judges

On the evening of Tuesday, November 9, the final elimination for the Davidson-Randolph-Macon debate took place in Phi Hall. The
query read, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should prohibit the immigration of Japanese laborers into the United States or its
territory, for a period of twenty years.” The four who had stood the test of the first elimination were A.
M. Mitchell and R. Bitzer, of the Eumenean, and C. K. Brown and J. H. McKeithen, of the Philanthropic. McKeithen
and Bitzer represented the affirmative, while Brown and Mitchell defended the negative. The debate, on the whole, was a fine
specimen of collegiate argument and any that the judges might have selected could surely uphold the honor of Davidson with
credit, both to the college and to themselves. The rebuttals were very heated and this consequently added much to the
interest of the debate. The judges of this forensic fray were Dr. Sentelle, Professor Currie and Dr. Shewmake. The debaters
they finally decided upon were Brown and McKeithen as principals, with Mitchell as alternate. These will be the men who
will uphold Davidson in the Davidson-Randolph-Macon debate to take place in Shearer Hall on the evening.of December 7. — THE
TRIP TO WINSTON. Davidson Sends Three Hundred Rooters to Support the Team. Three hundred enthusiastic and optimistic football fans hurried
aboard the “Davidson Special” last Saturday morning, as the train drew up in front of the station. It was a
happy, whistling crowd, made all the more so by the ideal football weather, just cool enough to make everyone feel
good with plenty of Wildcat pep. The train reached Winston about noon. Everybody enjoyed the trip through the country. The
trees were beautiful, dressed in their fall colors, as if some artist had dipped his brush in the rainbow and
transferred its varied colors to their foliage. The brown fields dotted here and there with bits of cotton lent a
background to the picture. But soon these trees and fields with occasionally a creek or brook were left behind and
hurry on with the train to the city and the gridiron. At 2:30 the stands were already beginning to fill.
In one, the wearers of the Red and Black gathered, while across the way were the hearty supporters from the
home of the Tar Baby. The Davidson band was there to lend itself to the occasion with true Davidson pep.
Will anyone who saw it ever forget the great game? How the Wildcats fought and fought until the victory was
theirs. How the crowd rushed on the field yelling and dancing with excitement and joy. The whistle blew and the
crowd started for home. Every son of old Davidson was happy because they had seen a clean, scrappy game, and
the best team had won. But we were about to forget the snake dance through the streets of Winston at
night. Songs and yells were given as (Continued on page 5) Red and Black Machine Wins from Carolina in Hard-Fought
Game Wildcats Show Superiority Over Ancient Enemies— Shepard Sprints 25 Yards for Winning Touchdown The University of North Carolina’s Blue
and White bowed before Davidson’s Red and Black, for the first time in ten years, on Prince Albert field, Winston-Salem,
last Saturday afternoon. Dr. Metcalf Heard With Pleasure at Davidson Instructive Lectures Delivered by Prominent Professor of English Sunday Evening.
Dr. John Calvin Metcalf, of the Department of English at the University of Virginia, gave an address before the students
and townspeople on last Sunday night on the subject, “The Lessons of the Parables.” “The freshness of Christ’s parables must
have captured his hearers,” said Dr. Metcalf, “as they dealt with the issues of life and lifted them up to
higher planes of thinking.” Jesus did not talk down to people, but always lifted them up—some of his audience may
have held beliefs different from His, but He always held their attention. The keynote words running through all the parables
are Love, Faith and Service. Each parable has one great central idea, and practically everyone tells of the Kingdom of
Heaven and how to get there. Dr. Metcalf, speaking from a life of rich experience and study, says that the
literature of the Bible is unsurpassed, and that the best short stories to be found anywhere are the parables of
the New Testament. The parable of “The Lost Son,” containing only 500 words, shorter than most of our short stories,
is nevertheless a story of the highest type, and its definiteness and form are unexcelled. The parable is classified as
an anecdote told by a speaker to a group which clarified points at issue to the open-minded and conceals certain
things from others. According to a very apt definition given by a child, a parable is “an earthly story with
a heavenly meaning.” Considering next the kinds of parables Dr. Metcalf made five main divisions. His first division was those
telling of growth; second, those contrasting a person or set with another person or set; third, those showing individual vices
and virtues; fourth, those dealing with social fellowship, and his last group was those informing us of discipline and judgment.
Formalism, one of the most dangerous of all diseases to things of a religious, political or educational nature, was causing
the minds and hearts of his hearers much distress, and the parables were very efficacious in overcoming the bad effects
of this evil. Many of these parables are statements of great truths in a nut-shell—truth presented in a pictorial manner.
Jesus Christ was the most original teacher the world has ever known, and was the author and perfecter of the
parable. The great Master of Life was also a master of literature, and these terse stories of His appeal to
us not only for their intrinsic beauty as stories, but also as interpretations of the mind of our Savior. (Continued
on page 5) Three thousand spectators witnessed a game which gave the appearance of ending in a scoreless tie, until
the fourth period, when “Gig” Shepherd ran 25 yards around left end for a touchdown, thereby winning the lasting honor
and praise not only of his fellow students, but also of hundreds of local friends and Davidson supporters who absolutely
over-ran the field in their joyful celebration. Carolina at once showed that she intended to play a defensive game when
on receiving the ball in her territory for the first time she punted back to Davidson territory. From this first
play Carolina took no chances, but always resorted to punting on the second or third down, seemingly being afraid to
risk the Wildcats in her territory for any length of time. Davidson kicked off to Carolina from the west end
of the field. This quarter was featured mostly by long and continuous 45-yard punts by Lowe, of Carolina. Davidson on
receiving the ball ran Moore, Cassell and Poe for short gains around end, and when they failed to make first
downs fell back on Shepherd’s 35-yard punts to place the ball in Carolina's territory. In the second quarter, Carolina resorted
to forward passes and succeeded in getting the ball on the 20-yard line, where Lowe failed in attempting a drop
kick, the pigskin going several feet to the left of the bar. Neither Davidson nor Carolina were able to gain
any ground through the line, both lines holding fast at all times. The third period was probably featured by small
gains for the Blue and White through forward passes and kicking, and for the Red and Black by sweeping end
runs. In the fourth period, after Shepherd had kicked 35 yards into Carolina's territory, Carolina’s attempted forward pass was intercepted
by Poe, who advanced the ball to the 25-yard line. On the next play Shepherd, sweeping around left end, ran
25 yards for a touchdown, stiff-arming several of his opponents. (Continued on page 2) WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE. Thursday—3:00 p.
m., Scrubs vs. N. C. State at Pinehurst. 8:00 p. m., Wildcats leave for Clinton, S.C. Friday—3:00 p. m., D.
C. vs. P. C. 6:45 p. m., Davidson Reporters’ Club meeting. 8:00 p. m., Basketball, Seniors vs. Fresh. Saturday—6:45 p.
m., Senior Literary Societies. 7:30 and 8:30 p. m., Movies: “Male and Female.” Sunday—10:00 a. m., Bible Classes. 6:15 p.
m., “Y" Service. Monday—6:45 p. m., Junior Literary Societies. WE ARE PROUD OF YOU, WILDCATS
