THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920

Devotional News

INFLUENCE OF VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE FELT
Several New Bible and Mission Study Classes Organized.

During the Volunteer Convention, the Davidson men got a vision of real service. They went away with the determination to make things go or know the reason why. A class to study negro problems is to be organized in the near future. These people are of great importance to the south, and it is necessary that their problems be given due consideration by everyone. All students will be given an opportunity to join this class when it is organized.

FOWLE AND SUMMERVILLE CONDUCT INSPIRING SERVICE

Programs have been very busy trying to create some real religious enthusiasm. Three new Bible classes have been organized for the Sunday morning meetings. Two of them are in Rumple. Bobby Long has a class on the first floor east side, and B. B. Brittenheit has one on the second floor west side. J. M. Richards is to take charge of a new class on the third floor of South Chambers. L. P. Good is reorganizing the town boys into a class which will meet at Mrs. Sloan’s. The attendance of the Bible classes has been low this spring, but it must rise between now and commencement. It will not do this unless every fellow does his part.

At the Friday night teachers' meeting, a class was organized for studying the minor prophets. The purpose of the class is to have real prayer meetings and to earnestly study the books of the minor prophets. Admission to this class is free to all, and everyone who is really interested is urged to attend. Mr. Miles is to be the leader, and the class will meet at 7 p.m. on Tuesday night.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

The Call of the Gospel Ministry Presented—Large Number Make the Supreme Decision.

Had every Davidson alumnus at Union Seminary given a hundred dollars apiece, they could not have done even a fraction as much good for the old college as they did by sending two of their number, Fowle and Summerville, down to speak to the student body. As one man expressed it, “The greatest spiritual awakening that ever happened at Davidson College happened Sunday night.” Coming right after the Volunteer Conference, the visit of these two men was providential.

Both men spoke at the “Y” service, “Summertime” first and Jamie next. What did they say? How did they say it? Were the talks well worked out? The answers to these questions have been forgotten. All that is remembered and the one fact that impressed itself on every man present is that Jesus Christ is calling for men to preach His Gospel to those who have never heard of Him. The whole world is calling. In America alone, 60,000,000 people are not even connected with any church. China, Japan, India, Africa, Korea, Persia, and the other countries beyond the seas are calling for someone to tell them of Jesus Christ. The Ministry—the foreign field needs men.

On last Sunday evening, the Volunteer Band held a short but important meeting. After the devotional exercises, which were led by Chalmers, Hart spoke of what constitutes a missionary call. He showed the great need in the different countries of the world today and left this message, “When you are qualified, these needs are the calls.” Ritzer then explained the Declaration card—that it is not in any sense a pledge, but rather the expression of purpose, God willing it, to become a foreign missionary. He closed by showing some of the benefits which come to those who sign this declaration early in their preparation.

Immediately after this meeting, a joint meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteer bands was addressed by Summerville, a Davidson alumnus, now studying at Union Theological Seminary. Summerville first spoke of the challenge and opportunities of the ministry today. “The one thing that can heal the broken heart of the world is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. As students for the ministry, we face today the greatest privileges and opportunities possible in this, the greatest day in which a man could live.” He then showed that the needs of today can be met if men will put their lives wholly in Jesus’ control and urged that each one, to the fullest of his ability, cooperate with Christ to cleanse his life from all that is holding him back.

After his talk, while the audience quietly sang, “Just as I am,” Fowle asked all those men who from now on were going to give themselves wholly to the Gospel ministry, to come forward. About a dozen responded to the call, five of whom were Seniors. The invitation was also given to those who were willing to go to the foreign field.

Y. M. C. A. ANNOUNCES PROGRAM OF SUNDAY NIGHT SPEAKERS

The committee on the Y. M. C. A. is trying to get a good and helpful program for this spring term. Mr. Matthews, the chairman, has secured the very best speakers possible for our Sunday evening service. Every attempt possible is being made to make the programs for each service as attractive as possible, also to be both instructive and interesting. The program is not as yet completed, but is as follows:

March 28—Lieut. Edward Roberts, Wilmington, N. C.
April 4—Dr. B. O. Clark, Salisbury, N. C.
April 11—Gov. T. W. Bickett (Pending).
April 18—Dr. W. S. Wilson, Lincolnton, N. C. (Pending).

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR ELECTS OFFICERS

Officers for Next Six Months Chosen

On Sunday afternoon, the Christian Endeavor Society in the local church elected new officers. These are: President, W. A. Gamble, Jr.; vice-president and corresponding secretary, Miss Lois Barnett; secretary, Miss Newtie Deal; treasurer, Miss Jasamine Brown. The old and new officers will meet next Sunday to choose committees. The topic for Sunday is “Life Lessons from the Book of Proverbs.” The leader is D. H. Ogden. All students are cordially invited to attend.The need and answered the call. The meeting was closed with a prayer by Dr. Richards, and the men quietly filed out, too greatly impressed, too deeply moved to speak.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR TO HAVE TRI-COLOR CONTEST

The Christian Endeavor Society, as one feature of its spring program, is going to hold an efficiency contest. There are to be three teams, headed by J. P. Price, R. R. Craig, and D. H. Ogden. This contest is to last for five weeks, and is for the promotion of participation in the meetings. Every member is expected to wear his team color, which will be either red, white, or blue. The topic for next Sunday is, “A Trip Through Dixie,” and with Miss Sarah Hamilton leading the expedition, we are sure of a fine tour. Come in and help us grow.

BIBLE CLASSES GAINING SLOWLY

To hear that the Bible classes were fully attended last Sunday would be too good to be true. However, those coming out last Sunday numbered 197. Each fellow should do his bit to make the attendance on his floor 100 percent.

Bible Class Attendance:
Rumple—East Side, 21; West Side, 10.
Watts—First floor, 10; Second floor, 19; Third floor, 18.
Georgia—First floor, 11; Second floor, 11; Third floor, no class.
Chambers—North Wing: First floor, 9; Second floor, 8; Third floor, 8. South Wing: First floor, 7; Second floor, 9; Third floor, 17.
Louisiana: No class.
Town, 3.
Total, 161.

RESULTS OF MILLION DOLLAR CAMPAIGN
(Continued from page 1)

Architect Robert F. Smallwood, ’06, of New York. This building will be placed on the East side of Georgia and in line with the other buildings on Dormitory Row. Announcement cannot be made concerning additional residences for professors, classrooms, and various other improvements until after the meeting of the Board of Trustees.

A missionary class has been organized as a result of the convention, to study missions. The subject will be “The World Reconstruction Papers,” a series of eight lessons on mission written since the war, by expert authorities. The topics to be studied are India, The Near East, China, Japan, Latin America, Malaysia, Woman Life Christianity, and Democracy. This class will be very interesting as well as instructive. All who will are invited to attend the meetings, which will be held every Sunday at 1 o'clock in the parlor of the library.

MINISTERIAL BAND

In beginning the work for the rest of the term, plans were discussed as to the way and manner of procedure for the coming meetings of this spring. It was moved and carried that the regular meetings of the Presbytery be suspended and only call meetings for the transaction of business be held. It was suggested that a place be reserved on the program for the discussion of problems which come before the members in the week’s course. It was also suggested that certain members of the faculty be invited to address the band on different occasions. In accordance with these desires, the president appointed a committee to arrange programs for the meetings.

After having gone through such an inspiring convention as the one just closed, it seems that every man who has any Christianity about him should want to learn of the needs of his fellow man. The want must be known before the supply can be given. Mission study is the answer.

GLEE CLUB GETS TO GOING ONCE MORE

At a meeting of the Glee Club last Monday morning, Charlie Vance was elected leader for next year. The club has started with much enthusiasm and great things are being planned. A trip is being arranged with Queens, Mitchell, Flora Macdonald, and Salem. It is desired that every person with musical talent come out and try for a place on the club.

When we look out over the campus and see the flower of southern manhood strolling to and fro, with their arms around each other's waists, we can’t help asking ourselves the question: “Are they practicing for next summer?”

BASEBALL

Get Into the Game with Spalding Equipment
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
Myers Hardware Company
Headquarters for ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS
E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.

Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W.W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL NINE
“The House of Service”
1. Free tuning for three years.
2. Free fire insurance while you are paying.
3. Exchange privilege.
Charlotte's Largest Store Of Quality, Pianos and Organs
“The World's Best Piano”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

JOHN W. POST & CO.
Knabe Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

ONE GRADUATE

Of our Training School for Life Insurance Salesmen recently produced $308,000 in forty-five days. During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $92,000 per man.

When an agent signs a contract with the Southern Life and Trust Company, we don’t pat him on the back, turn him loose and tell him to “go to it.” We give him a preliminary correspondence course, and then a course in our Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.