THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 4, 1920. 5

PEANUT PARCHER

Twentieth Century Martyrs:
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

The Judges.

She remarked as her hero ceased speaking
While the hall with applause was ringing:
“Tis well he has done the speaking now
For I'll do it in later life.

To get attention, forget your speech.

When the girls have all gone homeward,
And when spring is all one dewy thing
And you're seen your way away
Agoing one by one

We got just what we wished for
My boy,

All things came as per order
This is the verdict of those who saw
“Much fire and Little water.”

We meant to run an article on stealing this week, but this paper we're using is er—borrowed.

Speaking is spoken, and everyone is duly thankful. There were many bad speeches but these were unnoticed for there were
many far worse. Everyone congratulated everyone else on having made a good speech, and some may have.

We didn’t go to all the Inquisitions. The show was greatly enjoyed by all—especially the briefness of its duration. The
low temperature which prevailed reminded many of the boys of the usual absence of heat from their rooms and created
several cases of room-sickness.

Suppose you're tired of reading this stuff and we sure we're tired of writing it so au revoir or whatever
it is.

THE RALEIGH CLUB

A thing speaking adventures was volunteered by a prominent Senior:
“I asked her if she’d ever learn to love me,
And saw her glow and answer with a smile:
‘What, my dear, do you think I’ve been learning
In my learning for the last long spring?’”

Friend—“What did he talk about?”
T. W. H.—“Don’t know, he didn’t say.”

Chambers has again been reconverted from a garage to a barn.

If Diogenes was in business now he’d probably be in search of a man who hadn’t written a forum article
on the R. O. T. C.

We heard “White Coal” and saw White rain.

I reflect when I hear the kicker holler
About how the eagle’s grown
That it’s better to live with a 4-bit dollar
Than to live with no $ at all.

We missed the good speech.

Things to be thankful for:
That there were not 61 Juniors.

All the Chapel lacked of being a barber shop was a barber.

Rain is as essential to Junior Speaking as a sun is to a sunrise.

Research Laboratory

The research facilities of the General Electric Company are an asset of world-wide importance, as recent war work has so
clearly demonstrated. Their advantages in pursuits of peace made them of inestimable value in time of war.

Among the many notable devices evolved were the sending, without a wire, history-making messages and orders, the X-ray tube for
medical service, searchlights for the Army and Navy, electric welding and applications, electric furnaces for gun shrinkage, magneto insulation for
air service, detonators for submarine mines, incendiary and smoke bombs, fixation of nitrogen, and substitutes for materials.

In the laboratories are employed highly trained physicists, chemists, metallurgists, and engineers, some of whom are experts of international reputation.
These men are working not only to convert the resources of Nature to be of service to man, but to
increase the usefulness of electricity in every line of endeavor. Their achievements benefit every individual wherever electricity is used.

Scientific research works hand in hand with the development of new devices, more efficient apparatus, and processes of manufacture. It
results in the discovery of better and more useful materials and ultimately in making happier and more livable the life
of all mankind.

Booklet, Y-863, describing the company’s plants, will be mailed upon request. Address Desk 37

General Electric

The Service of an Electrical Company

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643
