THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1920.

DEVOTIONAL DR. J. W. McCONNELL LEADS “Y” SERVICE. REMAINS Popular Physician Speaks of Some Problems of College Life.

Speaking before a good crowd, Sunday evening Dr. Wilson McConnell took as his subject an old Greek proverb running “It
is good to be rich, it is good to be strong, but it is better to be loved by many
friends.” He showed that riches and strength were good things and that they should be sought by everyone, but that
in themselves they could not bring lasting happiness unless used for the benefit of others. Dr. McConnell made several practical
applications of this principle to college life, showing that men should use their offices and honors by relating a very
touching incident of a country doctor who made everyone love him by his life of unselfish service and who was
honored after death by the epitaph “office upstairs.”

C. E. SOCIETY ENJOYS PICNIC.

All the students will be happy to learn of the recent decision that Dr. Richards has made in regard to
his remaining at Davidson. Since hearing that he had recently received several offers from large cities, the boys have been
watching and waiting for his decision and earnestly hoping that it would be as he has made it. Among other
great churches that have tried to secure Dr. Richards, is the First Church of Savannah, one of our leading Southern
churches. He has made a great sacrifice in remaining with us on the small salary that Davidson affords its pastor.
The students appreciate the sacrifices our pastor has made and his great service among us.

CAMPUSISMS.

Dr. Thomas Lingle visited Gastonia Sunday.

Last Saturday afternoon the C. E. held its long-anticipated picnic. The picnickers left the Presbyterian Church in the early afternoon,
and returned in the silver light of the accommodating old moon. From the games of the afternoon to the songs
around the campfire—the whole affair was a delightful success. The supper, spread under a group of spreading oaks, was by
far the most popular event of the outing. As far as the eats go, it is enough to say that
everyone was “plum full,” and then some.

The tri-color contest, which has been underway in the Society for the past five weeks, closed Sunday. The Red team
made a sensational gain of points in the eleventh hour, and took the first place away from the Blues by
a score of 548 to 531. The two losing teams will entertain the winners at a feed next Friday night.

Miss Craig at the infirmary is again about her duties having almost completely recovered from a recent severe sore throat.

Mrs. Horner, her daughter Eloise, and a party of Charlotte were guests last week.

Mr. F. L. Jackson is to be congratulated upon the arrival at his home on last Monday morning.

Those present at the movies this week enjoyed an unusually good picture, Dustin Farnum in Captain Courtesy. The special features
were good scenery and expert riding. Of course, the numerous admirers of Mary Pickford were disappointed at not seeing her
star acting as usual but even these were appeased by the excellence of Dustin Farnum's well-known playing. The spectators were
also treated to an excellent musical program rendered by Jojo’s Jazz Band. These skillful sons of Orpheus swayed the audience
at will, moving them from ecstasies of joy almost to tears. This is one of the best shows we have
had this spring and we hope the remaining ones will be even better.

H. Smith, '20, had the misfortune to sprain his leg one day last week.

Mr. J. W. Smith, of Charlotte, a prominent “Y” man of the state will address the “Y” service next Sunday.
Mr. Smith is a fine speaker, and will come and speak.---
NCS SON bring a message that no man can afford to miss. Headquarters for A. Spalding Equipment pastor. Although hardly
deserving, William Hall will remain with us, and Hayne Henderson, Mrs. Robson the efficient nurse, Ralph Reid, G. D. Sample,
and T. H. Wilkes, Charlie Overcash are convalescing from removal of Burett Overcash, A. D. Calhoun, C. D. Jones, B.
E. Gertrude Abernathy Shields, A. M. Alexander, A. Y. Cottrell, S. E. Howie, and A. E. Fraleigh complete the sick
list for last week. J. T. Maddrey, ex-’19, of Winston-Salem, is visiting friends. S. D. Patrick visited his son Craig
Saturday. With Mr. Patrick was D. F. McCullough, of Charlotte, a friend of the Bachelors one evening last week. If
you ask him, a boy and a girl! This will be one of the last meetings of the year, and
every man should come out and help raise the attendance chart. Also, an unusually good address may be expected.

Myers Hardware
ALL KINDS OF ATHLETIC GOODS

Honor Roll of the Davidson Graded School for the month of April:

Tenth Grade:
Inez Christenbery
Martha Hamilton

Seventh Grade:
Letetia Currie
Howard Arbuckle
Sarah Barnette
Thomas Lothery
Robert Thompson

Sixth Grade:
Ursula Abbott
Kitty Martin
Bernice Wilson

E. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President

SAY IT WITH FLOWERS
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.
Jetton Drug Company, Agents

Riggs McConnell
Sidney Proctor

Fifth Grade:
Margaret Johnston
Helen Procter
Mildred Mooney

Fourth Grade:
Adele Arbuckle
Jane Leighton Richards
James Caldwell
John D. McConnell

If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT

Robert Reid
Josephine Mock
Clarence Keever

Third Grade:
Edna Varnadore
Willis Howard

“The House of Service”
ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY

Free Tuning For Three Years
Charlotte's Quality Store of Pianos and Players

Chambers
Sigman
Z. K. Justice

First Grade:
Legette Fidler
Mildred Keever

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.

A real bargain in a good machine for only $19. See “The World’s Best Piano” and other standard makes and
the incomparable AMPICO. Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged.

Tuning, Repairing, and Moving
R. E. McCL
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.

JOHN W. POST & CO
Knabe Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.
H.C. Larzelere, Prop.

EXCELLENT SPEAKERS SECURED FOR COMMENCEMENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
A number of prominent speakers will be here to take part in the Commencement exercises. Dr. Thornton Whaling of Columbia
Seminary will speak before the Literary Societies. Dr. Snyder, president of Wofford College, will deliver the literary address at the
presentation of the diplomas. Dr. John McNeill, the noted Scotch minister of Birmingham, will preach the Baccalaureate Sermon. Other distinguished
men will probably also be present. The classes of ’15, ’10, and ’05 are planning reunions. The trustees, of course,
will be here for their meeting. Plans are underway to have the R.O.T.C. Band furnish music for the occasion. Commencement
this year will be a gala affair indeed, and will be well worth the presence of the whole student body.

The COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Capital, Surplus, and Reserves Over a Million Dollars
WE WANT YOUR BUSINESS

Queen City Printing Co.
PEPSI-COLA
Charlotte, N.C.
