The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL ----------------------------- Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS -------------------------- Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND ---------------------------- Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE ------------------------------- Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES -------------------------- Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS ------------------------ Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL ------------------------ Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE, JR. ------------------- Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP ---------------------------- Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS -------------------------- Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL ------------------------------- Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR. ----------------------- Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE ----------------------- Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. CUMMING
R. BITZER
M. W. DOGGETT
J. W. PHILLIPS
E. H. TUFTS
L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHELL
B. BRITENHIRT
W. MOORE
D. A. B.
W. J. C.

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN --------------------------- Business Manager
E. A. NASH ------------------------------ Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG ------------------------------ Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL ------------------------------ Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Why not break an old custom and remain for Commencement this year? You will enjoy it as well as add much to the attractiveness of the occasion by your presence.

We did not realize that Davidson was such a stylish place, but the appearance of the Overall Club on the campus has shown us that this idea is erroneous. However, our advice to this type of thrifty savers of clothing is that they join the R.O.T.C. It is more sensible and beneficial.

Just as a gentle reminder do not forget to talk Blue Ridge on the campus. N.C. State is planning to have twenty men at the Conference, but we want to outdistance this by having thirty-five as our goal. Will you be one of the number to represent Davidson?

It seems as if it has been left to an almost unsupported branch of athletics to have an extremely successful season this year. It is a pity that track athletics does not have the same high rank here as it possesses in Northern schools, and in view of the good work of our track team it should receive the unqualified assistance and interest of the whole student body.

We are glad to learn that the Band had a remarkably successful trip, financially and otherwise, as well as reflecting nothing but honor upon our institution. A copy of a letter from a hotel man printed in this issue speaks well for this organization, and we take this opportunity to express our appreciation of the good work that they have done this year. May it ever be thus!

WILL YOU BE HERE?

To the Alumni of this institution is this issue of our paper especially directed in order that they may receive the incentive that will compel them to be present at Commencement this year, to be held May 23rd to 26th. We wish to call attention to the letter from the President of the Alumni Association which states in a concise manner the things that will be laid before this body of men, and to urge that every Alumnus promise himself right now that he will set his face towards Davidson for this Commencement, in order that he may do his part for his Alma Mater.

It is realized that former students are conscious of a strange feeling when they return to our campus to be met with faces that are strange to them, yet there is not a man here who is not always glad to see the old men and willing to do everything possible to make their visit an enjoyable one. Commencement is far from what it should be at Davidson as to the number of people here, but steps are being taken to make it a big occasion this year. The final exercises of the college year positively cannot be a success with just a mere handful present, and it is for this reason that every effort is being made to prevail upon a larger number of students to remain than heretofore. In this connection we are of the opinion that the Alumni should co-operate with us in this effort by seeing to it that they are here in body, spirit and mind.

Every Davidson student is of the opinion that this is the best place in the world, and we cannot think otherwise but that this is even stronger in the minds of our Alumni. In view of this we know that every Alumnus wants to come here, and our hope is that this desire will be evidenced by his presence. Commencement this year will mark the close of the most successful year in the history of our college, and surely we cannot hope for else than that it shall be a fitting climax to such a session. Its success will depend upon the Alumni as well as the present students, and we are confident that neither will be found wanting.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 29, 1920.

“ONCE TO EVERY MAN AND NATION”

Yes, and to every college. This time we are going to have to decide quick, and then work harder’n “General” on a Rumple Raid. But, gentlemen, there is something in this. Listen; Charlie Vance’s Ouiji board alone knows what Colonel put in that inspector’s ear; but he fell proper. And, as the result, he came across and handed us something that we may well be proud of (other colleges fight for it). In effect, he sent in a hurry call to our mutual Uncle, and told him he had better take a second look at “This Man’s Army” down here—that it was a real “he” army, with hair all over it, and about the bristliest hair he ever struck, at that. Well, Uncle decided he had better have a look, if that was the way things stood. So he mapped it out to focus the grand squint about May 5th. Now, the question for us is: What are we going to show Uncle; and will he be proud of his nephews at Davidson.

But, laying all jokes aside, here it is: The district inspector was so well pleased with our military department that he recommended to the War Department that we be given special inspection, to determine whether or not we are good enough to be placed in the class of Distinguished Colleges. The inspector will arrive May 5th, and it is up to us to show him what we can do. If we meet with his approval, and gain the distinguished rating, it means that we gain a coveted honor. The college might well be proud to advertise such a standing far and wide, for, until recently, there have been only about ten colleges in the United States to gain it. With such a rating, this college, Davidson, could put two commissioned officers directly into the regular army each year, without examination, and no questions asked. Ask yourself this question: “Do I care enough about the college I attend to help it win?”this honor?” Think it over. Are you willing to do a little real work during the next week? Wouldn't you like to see Davidson beat ’em again? Well, if you would, go to it! It will be a good-sized job; but, if we get together like a bunch of real men, we can do it. Here is something for you. Captain Mueller wants this thing to go across just as much as any of us, and he puts it up to us something like this: “This is your college, and you have the opportunity now to push it way up into the foreground. I am willing to dispense with all reviews and examinations in my department for the rest of the term for all men who are now passing their work, provided that you will turn out about three extra times for drill—and that means everybody in the R. O. T. C., unless he has some real, valid excuse.” There it is. What do you think of it? Is it a good proposition, worth making the most of? You know what it will take: good steady work at drill, good appearance at all times, especially while the inspector is here (start practicing early), rifles in the best of condition, good military bearing, and all the rest—you know. The inspector comes from one of our old rivals, Clemson, where he is P. M. S. & T. Let’s show him something!

Major Offense.

A PROTEST.

The watchword of Davidson seems to be, “You can’t beat brains,” but how many times do we ever rationally figure out our actions? Davidson’s idol is the athlete, and the way in which we worship him is an admirable manifestation of the ardor which we show in supporting our teams. But after all, our intercollegiate debaters are just as much our representatives as our athletic teams; they fight just the same for the “Honor of Old Davidson,” and their record shows that they have added quite as much to it as our athletes. Is it right that we should worship our athletes and let our debaters go without the honor that is rightfully theirs? Is it just that a cigar on campus or at athletic games.

8. Freshmen shall act in an orderly manner at the refectory.
9. Freshmen shall be courteous to upper-classmen.
10. Freshmen after visiting town must return to campus by 11:15 p.m., unless given permission by Commodore to come in later.—The Richmond Collegian.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Concerning the Honor System at Tech.

Lower Classes of Georgetown University Must Remain for Commencement.

An important change is to be made this year in the order of commencement exercises. By the present arrangement, the Seniors will be the first to leave the college, commencement being held on June 8, while the undergraduates will be held over five days longer for examinations,—The Hoya, Georgetown University.

On the first page of this issue is an article concerning the Honor System. Read it and note the suggestions made as to its application. The Honor System is not given the high regard and deep thought that it should command. It is the biggest thing in Tech, and should be recognized as such. Give it your support. Tell your friends just where you stand as regards it. Never think slightingly or lightly of it. Its principles will soon become a part of you, and will broaden and strengthen you both in mind and soul.—The Technique.

Wm. H. Taft Speaks at Baylor University.

Tuesday, April 20, will be a red-letter day for Baylor University, when America’s greatest private citizen will speak in Carroll chapel. It is the only time an ex-President of the United States has ever spoken in Carroll chapel. In the case of ex-President Taft that man is one who is held in higher esteem today than he stood as President. His integrity and high ideals have won him the love and esteem of partisans and non-partisans.—The Lariat.

Richmond College Freshmen Have to Observe Ten Commandments.

The following, known as Ten Commandments, shall govern the action of all Freshmen:
1. All Freshmen will obey college rules and regulations as laid down by college authorities and student government association.
2. Freshmen, unless excused by Commodore, shall attend all home athletic contests and games held during the school year.
3. Resident Freshmen shall attend all athletic rallies, and Freshmen living in town shall attend not less than two a month, of athletic rallies held by the student body.
4. No Freshman shall be allowed to go on south side of lake until after Christmas, unless accompanied by upper classmen, or unless with permission of Commodore.
5. All Freshmen shall procure and wear a rat cap while on campus and at athletic games during year.
6. No Freshman shall appear on campus wearing a derby or carrying a cane.
7. No Freshman shall smoke a cigar on campus or at athletic games.

Overalls at Trinity—Profs. Don Them.

Congratulations to the Profs. with overalls! Here’s hoping that many more will soon fall in line. Boys in denim—girls in chambray—now we can tell who is really good-looking. Some of our affected college dudes remark that they feel so unnecessary in their overalls. All of us had as well be frank about the matter and admit that we feel quite natural for a very large portion of us are perfectly at home in them.—Trinity Chronicle.

Questionnaires Are Sent Out to Mississippi Students.

Prof. H. R. Hunt, of the University of Mississippi, is placing before the students of that institution a few facts regarding a biological and sociological problem of great importance to us and to future generations. Briefly stated, the question is this: “Does a collegiate education tend to discourage marriage and the rearing of children?” Statistics show that if a girl goes to college she decreases her chance of marrying by about one-half. Other statistics also show that the average alumnus’ family is steadily decreasing. So far as is known no attempt has ever been made to investigate the conditions in the colleges of the South. Are the best families of the South gradually committing suicide by sending their sons and daughters to college? Professor Hunt is sending out to the students questionnaires for them to fill out.—The Mississippian.

smoke the man who can catch a ball with his hands or ram his body through a line of beef should be more honored than one who has put weary months in developing the difficult art of oratory? These men spend quite as much time in hard work in order to bring back the bacon to old D. C. as the members of our athletic teams. About six times a year we have a speech in chapel on the support of our athletic teams, but who ever got up to plead for support to our debating teams? Who ever heard of a pep meeting the night before our debaters left? Who ever saw a crowd standing around White's to find out if our forensic artists had “downed them every one?” Why not think it over, fellows, and see if a balanced reasoning wouldn’t demand that these fellows be given the support that they rightfully deserve?

Fair Play.

WDC Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The WDC is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band and bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order—that’s what we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKER OF FINE PIPES