THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920

Athletic News

CATAWBA COLLEGE HERE TODAY.

Strength of Visitors Unknown.

Today at 3:30 the Wildcats' unbroken record will be attacked by the Catawba College nine. The game promises to be as fast and as interesting as the two of last week. The Catawba team comes with more or less mystery surrounding them. Having played only one game this season they cannot easily be sized up. The strong Lenoir College team barely nosed them out in their first start. It is reported that they have an exceedingly strong battery. Unusual ability is credited to their well-known catcher and at least one good pitcher is on the staff. If this is so, the two teams will be fairly evenly matched in this respect for they are to play only one game, calling for only one pitcher. This is the first appearance of the Catawba representative at Davidson for several years. The last game that Davidson played them was on their home grounds, so no past record helps to point out the victor for Thursday.

The Davidson team is in good shape. Several of the bunch have complained of sore arms but with the weekend rest they should have rounded into shape. Johnson has been under the cover for the past few days with a healthy case of the mumps. He will no doubt be missed but with Wrenn to rely upon and a one-game series to be played, the team will be in good condition. Since Davidson is expecting some rather strong opposition it seems to point to a good game for the spectators. The showing of Catawba will nevertheless be watched with interest due to the fact that they are fairly new on the hill.

L. B. SCHENCK HEADS BASKETBALL TEAM NEXT YEAR.

The Davidson basketball team is very fortunate in having as its Captain next year Louis B. Schenck, a veteran player and athlete as well as a leader in many other college activities. Mr. Schenck had the misfortune of injuring his knee early this season which prevents him from playing the remainder of the year. Next year it is hoped that he will have better luck and that under his leadership the Wildcats will surpass the records which they have hung up in the past. The prospects for the team next year are exceedingly bright. Though it will be hard to fill the places of Chalmers, this year's Captain, and Hall, star forward, both of whom will graduate this Spring, there will be an abundance of material to draw from and Davidson will be assured of a team that will uphold the former honors of the Alma Mater.

LET’S GO TO CHARLOTTE. WATCH WILDCATS WIN.

A-I-l—A-b-o-a-r-d—Special train to Charlotte for the A. and E. game on April 10. The baseball manager has been working for this a long while and although final plans cannot be shaped, it is safe to say that an extra coach or so will be put on the 12 o’clock train that day and a special train back to Davidson that night. The railroad agent states that unless the boys patronize this accommodation of the company, it will be difficult to get service in the future. So fellows save your pennies, borrow, attach, any way get the cash and all turn out the 10th, and show N. C. State and Charlotte that ol’ D. C. is still on the map. It is going to be a good game, that is assured, and as a matter of fact should be the best game of the season. Everybody should see the Wildcats top the tallies of the Aggies. Fellows, let’s go four hundred and fifty strong, and help the team win.

TRACK CUP GOES

Summary

100 yard dash—1st, Murray; 2nd, Erwin, L.; 3rd, Adams; 10 seconds.
220 yard dash—1st, Murray; 2nd, Brice; 3rd, Denniston; 22.6 seconds.
440 yard dash—1st, Brice; 2nd, Murray; 3rd, Denniston; 50.6 seconds.
Half mile—1st, Dick; 2nd, Covington; 3rd, Mauze; 2 minutes 11.2 seconds.
Mile—1st, Fricker; 2nd, Brice; 3rd, Dick; 5 minutes 12 seconds.
220 yard hurdles—1st, Brice; 2nd, Erwin, L.; 3rd, Dick; 25.24 seconds.
Broad jump—1st, Murray; 2nd, McGukin; 3rd, Gentry; 20 feet.
High jump—Green and Davidson, tied; 3rd, Gentry; 5 feet 3 inches.
Pole vault—1st, Green; 2nd, Carr; 3rd, Streibich; 9 feet 2 inches.
Discus—1st, McLeod; Sutton and Heizer, tied; 94 feet 5 inches.

Timekeepers: Dr. J. M. Douglas and Prof. Macon Reed.
Starter: Coach Hengeveld.
Announcer: Mr. L. O. Hammett, Esq.

DIAMOND DUST

“Shep” labeled one of Richardson’s offerings across third base for a couple of sacks in Thursday's game, but the ump saw otherwise and as a result the Wilmington lad was robbed of a hit.

“Cop” didn’t bunt the old pill two feet in the eighth, but by the time the Oak Ridge team finished booting the sphere around, the Charlie Chaplin backstop was resting peacefully on the third sack.

On the above-mentioned play, Gardner trying to get Richards going to second heaved the pill to center field. With a roaming attitude the ball...rolled through center fielder's legs which resembled a wicket, and ambled leisurely toward the fence. Meanwhile, “Johnnie” dented the rubber with the winning tally. Why did “Barney Oldfield” Currie run for Miley in Thursday’s game? You can’t find out in speed circles here so you might as well inquire elsewhere. McArn’s pickup of Cassell’s throw in the seventh was of the spectacular variety. If this keeps up, Connie Mack will be getting our “Caruso” away from us. “The early bird gets the worm,” according to Philosophy. But wait! Ask “Cop” if this works when you leave third for home before a sacrifice fly has been caught. With Cassell and Shepherd on in the first inning, Richard’s signal may have been to sacrifice—but the result looked like a marathon race between the Oak Ridge outfield toward the fence. Did you notice that “shoulder motion” in Miley’s delivery which so baffles the baserunners? Wonder why Bill doesn’t try to get a position as instructor at “FOX's.” Who brought in the winning run of Wednesday's swatfest? With the score five all in the sixth, Wrenn lived on an error, McArn advanced him two pegs, and Eris Cassell’s bingle to left brought Wrenn across with the winning tally. If baseball hides cost like shoe soles, it must be rather expensive to play games like the recent two where twenty-five clean hits were made. Was the music there? I'll say it was. Captain Mueller’s Original Jazzarime Band furnished the harmony (?) in abundance. Keels Burgess was on the Hill Sunday visiting his brother, Sam, ‘21. He will be one of the '24 bunch. Stole second. Cox drew a free pass.

Mecklenburg Chero-Cola Company
ARCH. B. TAYLOR, ’11, Manager

WILDCATS OPEN SEASON
(Continued from page 1)

cat victory. The pitching and all-around playing of Richardson featured for the losers. He secured a brace of hits in three attempts and scored one of his team's runs. The Oak Ridge nine made a wonderful stab at victory in the ninth by staging a rally that only came one short of the mark, but Miley worked out of the hole after two tallies had been shoved across.

FIRST GAME

First Inning
Oak Ridge: McNeill singled to left and advanced to second on a sacrifice by Mooney, from where he scored on Marchant’s triple to right. Morris also tripled to center and Marchant scored. McGirt laid down a neat sacrifice and Morris scored. Sizemore drew a free pass, stole second, but Beckton ended the inning by flying out to left.

Davidson: Ratchford struck out. Cassell, F. flew out to left. Shepherd was hit by a pitched ball and stole second, but Richards grounded out.

Second Inning
Oak Ridge: Gardner lived on an error and advanced to second while Cox struck out. McNeil flew to first and Mooney was out short to first.

Davidson: Wrenn singled to center and went to third while McArn reached first on an error. McArn stole second and both advanced when Gardner let one of Cox’s benders get away from him. Cassell, E. struck out. McArn was out when an attempted hit and run play failed. Crawford struck out.

Third Inning
Oak Ridge: Marchant was out to first. Morris hit his second triple, however, and scored on an infielder's choice. Sizemore was put to second and McGirt was caught stealing.

Davidson: Currie and Ratchford struck out and Cassell was out short to first.

Fourth Inning
Oak Ridge: Beckton was out to first. Gardner singled to left and stole second. McNeil was safe on an infielder's choice while Gardner scored and Cox was being run down. Mooney ended the inning by grounding out.

Davidson: Shepherd flew to center and Richards followed with one to the same place. Wrenn singled but was caught stealing.

Fifth Inning
Oak Ridge: Marchant struck out and Morris flew to center. McGirt singled to center and Sizemore lived on an error but was put out on an attempted steal.

Davidson: Singles by McArn, Cassell, and Crawford filled the hassocks. Currie struck out but Ratchford doubled to left scoring McArn and Cassell. Cassell, F. flew to right but Crawford scored on the play. Ratchford scored when Shepherd lived on an error but Richards ended the inning by flying to short.

Sixth Inning
Oak Ridge: Beckton was out to first. Gardner flew to right. Cox was out to first.

Davidson: Wrenn was safe on an (Continued on page 7)

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music.

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, April 1, 2, 3

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
SANTRY AND NORTON
A Comedy Scream

REYNOLDS AND WHITE
In Violin and Verbal Expressions

PLAYMATES
A Musical Reminiscence of Our Happiest Hours

RALPH FAULKNER
The Wag With the Wilson Smile

HATAKE BROTHERS
Athletics—Japanese Style