THE DAVIDSONIAN, February 19, 1920.

SHORT HISTORY OF LAST FIVE CONFERENCES.
Much Good Being Done by These Yearly Meetings.
Queen’s, 1915; Normal, 1916; Greensboro, First Presbyterian Church, 1917; Elon, 1918; Guilford, 1919; Davidson, 1920.

The writer was privileged to attend the Laymen’s Missionary Convention in Charlotte in 1915. At the same time that this
was meeting, the Student Volunteers were holding their session at Queen’s or in the Second Presbyterian Church. There were not
so many there, but in connection with the Laymen’s Convention, it was a wonderful experience.

The following year the scene shifted to Greensboro and to the North Carolina College for Women—then the State Normal. This
proved to be a genuine “hot-bed of hospitality.” The conference was great, but about the greatest thing around there was
the enormous dining hall into which the delegates were led one evening. They were seated at one long table extending
down the middle of the room. There need be no elaboration of this feature, but it can be said that
“They certainly did show us a good time.” No wonder everybody crowded back to Greensboro in 1917 for the next
annual conference. Who could stay away? This time the sessions were held in the First Presbyterian Church and the delegates
were entertained in town, but for some reason, they would not stay there. One fellow, who was rather dejectedly looking
out of the car window on the return trip when his view was suddenly interrupted by an exceedingly long freight
train. His intent gazing was explained as he remarked, when the last car had passed, “You know, I can see
my girl’s picture on every box car.”

Greensboro wanted the conference again—they said they did—but they graciously yielded to the hospitality of Elon. During these times the
number was growing. Ninety-two registration fees were collected. But numbers do not tell of the inspirational value of such a
gathering. Several colleges sent delegations that reported practically no Volunteers when they came—and nearly all Volunteers before they left.

Next at Guilford—and the number had increased to one hundred and twenty-five. It looked for a while like there would
be no conference, but things changed and there was a conference and a great one at that. Those who have
attended one or more of these conferences know that this article has nothing more than to tell where the last
few conferences have been held. At last Davidson is privileged to serve as host. She has a noble heritage to
follow—Will she fail? No, because there is too much behind her.

The local Volunteer Band has during the last few years stood unchallenged as the largest Band in any college the
size of Davidson in the United States. Since 1916 there have been thirteen volunteers, who were alumni of Davidson, to
sail to the foreign field. In addition to this, there have been several Davidson men on the Staff of Officers
of the Union. P. Frank Price, ‘15, and his brother, J. P. Price, ‘17, were both presidents.

CONFERENCE INFORMATION
A VOLUNTEER CATECHISM.

Who are Volunteers?
Volunteers are those who have signed The Declaration Card.

What is The Declaration Card?
The Declaration Card is a statement of a purpose, God willing, to become a Foreign Missionary recorded by The Student
Volunteer Movement.

What is The Student Volunteer Movement?
The Student Volunteer Movement was organized a generation ago as an organization of students under the inspiration of Mr. Robt.
P. Wilder, a Princeton man. Mr. Wilder has since become secretary of this Movement which has been so used of
God to mould missionary thought and inspire missionary activities in the student life of North America.

What tangible form has the Movement?
The headquarters are at 25 Madison Ave., New York. John R. Mott is chairman of the Executive Committee and a
leading spirit of the Movement. This office is organized to serve the many volunteers scattered throughout the country and does
so in three principal ways:
1. Information is given and sold to those interested in the printed form of pamphlet or book and through the
personal letter.
2. Inspiration is given through the quadrennial conferences held for the students of North America.
3. Fellowship and an interest in Missions is developed by the visits of field secretaries to various institutions in America.

What results have been accomplished?
There has been an amount of interest and enthusiasm aroused that can never be measured. Since its founding in 1886,
8,140 Volunteers have sailed representing not less than sixty Christian communions or denominations.

How is the Movement financed?
It is financed partly by subscriptions solicited at its quadrennial conferences and in sending speakers to various state or sectional
conferences.

HOW TO REACH DAVIDSON.
(Railroad schedules printed as information for prospective delegates, but not guaranteed. Consult your agent before leaving).

Leave Raleigh, Train No. 21, 8:52 a.m. (via Durham, University, Elon College, Greensboro, Guilford, Winston-Salem). Arrive Statesville, Train No. 21,
4:05 p.m.
Leave Asheville, Train No. 12, 2:30 p.m. (via Black Mountain, Connelly Springs, Hickory, Newton). Arrive Statesville, Train No. 12, 7:05
p.m.
Leave Statesville, Train No. 15, 7:10 p.m.

ARCH. B. TAYLOR, ’11, Manager

Don’t leave without your college colors—they identify you.
Don’t plan to “get” all you can out of the conference. Put all you've got in it and you'll get
more than you expected.
Don't come to the Conference without plenty of “pep.”
Don’t try to “work-up” a good conference until you have done your share towards “praying it down.”

Here’s for the Best Conference.J. R. Woods, '18, and R. E. McClure, then '19, have served as treasurer. D. W.
Roberts, ex-'20, who was prevented from entering college this year by sickness, is Vice-President.

QUESTION BOX.

Someone asked about money. It will, of course, cost the delegates their railroad fare. In addition, each delegate will pay
a one-dollar registration fee. Davidson is glad to furnish entertainment for the delegates, and for many reasons which you would
know if you were at Davidson, it is imperative that you let us know in advance of your coming. Whatever
other expenses you want to make are your own affair.

What is its Watchword? “The Evangelization of the World in this Generation.”

What are its aims? Dr. Mott says, (summarize):
1. To awaken and maintain among all Christian students in the United States and Canada an intelligent and active interest
in foreign missions.
2. To enroll a sufficient number of qualified volunteers to meet the successive demands of the Mission Boards of North
America.
3. To help all such intending missionaries in preparing for their life work.
4. To lay an equal burden of responsibility on all students who are to remain at home.

What class of people should be attracted by this Movement? Every wide-awake man or woman who has enough world vision
to see beyond his or her sphere of activity should be attracted to a movement which in itself is an
important part of the greatest and noblest task that has ever faced mankind—The Evangelization of the Whole Wide World.

For further information, address 25 Madison Ave., New York, or come to Davidson College, March 12-14, 1920, or do both.

DELEGATE DON'TS.

Don’t fail to have your Enrollment Card mailed to Convention Headquarters, Box 12, Davidson, N. C., before March 1st.
Don’t fail to mark your baggage plainly before you get off the train.
Don’t forget to have a dollar in change to pay your registration fee.
Don’t let yourself get hungry. Eat at Statesville. The train arrives at 8:06 and there will not be time.

Arrive Davidson, Train No. 15, 8:06 p.m.
Leave Greensboro, Train No. 37, 7:25 a.m. (via Salisbury, Barber’s Junction. Arrive Davidson 11:50 a.m.) (Via Charlotte, arrive Davidson 2:58
p.m.)
Leave Greensboro, Train No. 1, 8:00 a.m.
Arrive Winston, Train No. 1, 9:00 a.m.
Leave Winston, Train No. 25, 9:05 a.m.
Arrive Davidson, Train No. 25, 11:50 a.m.
Leave Maxton (S. A. L.), Train No. 19, 8:29 a.m. (Via Charlotte, Southern R. R.)
Arrive Davidson (Southern) Train No. 24, 2:58 p.m.

THE SPEAKERS WILL BE HERE. DON’T MISS THEM.

Who are coming from headquarters? Some old friends, of course. Ask any delegates who attended the Elon and Guilford Conferences
if they remember J. Lovell Murray and Miss May Fleming. Miss Fleming is one of the traveling secretaries of the
Student Volunteer Movement. She knows Missions from first-hand knowledge. In the past few months, she has been visiting colleges in
the interest of the Movement.

As to Mr. Murray, an Elon delegate will recall that he was one of the moving spirits of the conference.
Ask a Des Moines delegate and you will learn that this same man had charge of the literature exhibit in
the Auditorium. Mr. Murray is an intelligent, missionary enthusiast. He is an interesting speaker and a great attraction to add
to the conference. These two will come as personal representatives of the New York office of the Movement. Of course,
there will be other well-informed speakers to bring messages to interest the conference. Even before the conference, it would not
be amiss to offer a vote of thanks to those who have arranged this much of the program.

DAVIDSON'S CONTRIBUTION TO VOLUNTEER SERVICE.

According to the official list of Volunteers, the following Davidson Alumni have since 1914 gone to some foreign field. The
information given below is in order: the name, the country, and the year of sailing.

Hudson, G. A., ex-'16, to China, 1916.
Farrior, S. C., '12, to China, before 1916.
McLaughlin, W. C., '02, to China, 1916.
Maxwell, A. S., '09, to S. Amer., 1916.
Rankin, Dr. D. T., '09, to Cen. Amer., 1916.
Stearns, Dr. Thornton, '06, to China, 1916.
Brady, Jno. H., '12, to Japan, 1917.
Hudson, D. V., '17, to China, 1917.
Reaves, H. S., '11, to China before 1917.
Rogers, Dr. Jesse McL., '13, to Korea, 1917.
Huske, Marion S., '11, to S. Amer., 1918.
Baker, F. F., '13, to S. Amer., 1919.
Inglis, W. A., '15, to Japan, 1919.

The faculty at its last meeting took the following action with reference to the men in the band: Where a
student during the past term has been giving satisfactory service in the band, as a member of the R. O.
T. C., but has not taken theoretical work, now takes up his theoretical work, continuing band work and passes it
all successfully this term, the faculty will give him the same scholastic credit as is given to other students, namely,
credit for one term’s work in one ticket, for the session’s work in R. O. T. C.

PROGRAM

Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, February 19, 20 and 21

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
PRINCESS OLGA AND HER LEOPARDS
A Remarkable and Daring Performance
STIEFF PIANO USED

HELOISE AMOROS AND OBEY
Parisian Eccentrics

NADEL AND FOLLETTE
In “Vaudeville as You Like It”

EMMETT BRISCOE
Assisted by Evelyn Ward and W. L. Cushing in a comedy sketch, “FRONT”

FRANCIS YATES AND GUS REED
In “DOUBLE CROSSING”
