‘sue THEDA’ OPENING [ >) FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON STUDENT GOVERNMENT Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 17, 1920. * * * * * * * * * * FOOTBALL SCHEDULE, 1920. * * * * * * * * * * Sept. 25—N. C. State at Raleigh, N. C. Oct. 2—Washington & Lee at Lexington, Va. Oct. 9—Georgia Tech. at Atlanta, Ga. Oct. 16—Wake Forest at Charlotte, N. C. Oct. 23—Richmond College at Richmond, Va. Oct. 30—The Citadel at Charlotte, N. C. Nov. 6—University of S. C. at Davidson, N. C. Nov. 13—University of N. C., at Winston-Salem, N. C. Nov. 19—Presbyterian College of S. C. at Clinton, S. C. Nov. 25—Furman University at Greenville, S. C. * * * * * * * * * * Freshmen Welcomed In Annual Y. M. C. A. Reception Ice Cream Followed by Speeches by Scene taken at the opening of college showing the arrival of old and new students at the beginning of the best year in the history of Davidson. Photo by McIlwaine. Davidson Opens Eighty-Second Session With Largest Enrollment In Her History--- Additions to Faculty and Curriculum College Session Opens | Davidson’s Curriculum | Y. M. C. A. Begins Year the Student Body Leaders Enjoyed by All—Band Furnishes Good Music Practically the whole student body attended an informal reception given by the Y. M. C. A. Monday evening to welcome the Freshman class to Davidson. The gymnasium, decorated with D. C. banners, was well filled and good fellowship prevailed everywhere. Almost all the faculty were present with their wives and a number of town people were there to greet the new men. Light refreshments were served, which were enjoyed by all. The college band furnished excellent music, which did much to add to the success of the occasion. After an enjoyable half hour spent in friendly greetings, Lewis Schenck, president of the Y. M. C. A., made a brief address of welcome to the Freshmen. He urged all to take an active part in the “Y” this year. After this speech, Dr. G. M. McConnell explained to the new men why they were so welcome to Davidson and what is expected of them here. Coach Grey, our hard-working football coach, then made a stirring appeal to the students for their support of the football team. He said, “Davidson teams are beaten, but never defeated.” Captain Hammett, speaking for the entire team, promises that they will do their best in every game this season, which is all we expect or desire of them. Buck Currie made an appeal for a better Davidson, which, as he says, will take the best in every man. Eris Cassell and Jap Cummings promise interesting and valuable literary productions this year in the form of The Davidsonian and Magazine. They ask for the co-operation of every man in their work. Joe McCaskill spoke in behalf of the literary societies and wants all the Freshmen to consider the question of membership seriously. The speeches being completed, all were urged to remain for an amusing movie in the form of “Mary’s Ankle.” The Rev. E. D. Brown, trustee for Concord Presbytery, spent Wednesday on the hill. Among other things, he entered his son E. D. Jr. in the freshman class. With Chapel Thursday Morning Dr. Martin Welcomes Old and New Students, and Introduces New Professors The opening exercises of the 1920-21 session were held in Shearer Hall, at the chapel hour on Thursday, the 9th of this month. At this time, Dr. Martin announced to the students the fact that never before in the history of the institution had there been such a large enrollment, for so early a date in registration. Four hundred and twenty men had deposited their shekels with the treasurer and signed their fate for the collegiate year. The five hundred mark is well in sight and the goal of the Greater Davidson Club almost realized. Dr. Martin gave a short and hearty welcome to the old men returning, commending them for their faithful work in the past and soliciting their earnest efforts and co-operation in the future. The new men were cordially welcomed to Davidson College and were offered the co-operation of both the faculty and student body in making the first year of their college course one of the most fruitful ones. The new members of the faculty were introduced by the president, namely: Dr. Fraser Hood, holding the chair of Psychology and Education; Prof. Irwin, the second chair of English; Prof. Byers, Spanish and German; Captain Hearn, professor of Military Science and Tactics. Dr. Martin then brought the students’ attention to a number of changes in the schedule and curriculum for the year. Also making mention of the improvements in the equipment of the college. After a few other announcements of minor importance, the exercises were turned over to Captain Hearn, in the interest of the R. O. T. C. Greatly Enlarged Valuable Advanced Course Offered This Year The college curriculum is wonderfully augmented by the addition of the two practical advanced courses of Education II and Educational Psychology II to be taught by Dr. Fraser Hood, formerly of Northwestern University, now Davidson’s first C. E. Graham Professor of Education. These courses form a necessary part of the educational preparation not only for teachers, preachers and others who expect to devote their lives to work among young people, but also for every man who is to competently fill his place in society as head of a family. For anyone who expects to deal with children, these courses offer exceptional advantages to learn how the child thinks and how his habits of thought must be directed and de-veloped through the proper processes of learning. Dr. Byers’ prospective addition of an advanced course in Spanish, besides being of great cultural value, will prove a wonderful asset to the necessary mental equipment of the business man who expects to engage in the great South American trade.

COACH GREY WELCOMED BACK TO THE CAMPUS

Great was the joy of the Davidson students when they learned that Hugh Grey was to be the coach of football this year. Not only was he one of the stars when he was in college, but since his graduation, he has been turning out winning teams at Bailey Military Institute. Coach Grey became an alumnus of Davidson in the spring of 1918, having been one of the best all-around athletes ever at this institution. He played on the football team for three (Continued on page 7)

With Well-Attended Service Dr. Arbuckle and Lewis Schenck Sound Keynote for Year’s Work In Short Speeches

“Christian Service” was the keynote of the speeches made at the Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday night by Lewis Schenck and Dr. Arbuckle. After a short song service led by Buck Currie, Schenck, the president of the College Association, made a report for the Board of Control, explaining its failure to secure a general secretary to fill the place made vacant by the resignation of “Bob” Miles last spring. The students of Davidson should turn this failure into a blessing, he thinks, by assuming more responsibility as workers for the “Y” on the campus. He then discussed the organization of the Y. M. C. A., showing what would be expected of each committee and how every man on the campus may co-operate with these committees in accomplishing these aims. In closing his speech, Schenck called attention to the cards placed on the seats and asked everyone present to check the form of Christian service in which he would be most interested.

Dr. Arbuckle closed the service with a few words on “Helpfulness.” He pointed out that just a few who had signed the cards could be used this fall in these activities, but that every man on the campus could engage in personal work by helping and cheering his fellow students. He said that he considered the highest tribute which any man could have paid to him was that he was always helping others, and that he hoped that it could be said of Davidson men that they were found helping others, for this is the only road to a Better Davidson. The meeting was well attended and the audience was very responsive to all that was said, for the cards when collected after the meeting showed that a good majority of the 250 present had signed up for some form of Christian service.

Wildcats Begin Practice on Sprunt Field a Week Early

Hard Schedule Demands Strenuous Workout—Sixty Men Answered Coach Grey’s First Call

Signals! 17-42-64 Hike! Snap, and they’re off. The Wildcat gridiron squad, increased to about 50 huskies, representing in the neighborhood of four tons of meat and bone combined, have been laboring out under Old Sol’s rays on Sprunt field for the past two weeks. Coach Grey has the squad in hand and is fast whipping them into shape. With one of the largest squads for many a moon, Sprunt field resembles an animated ant-hill. Pigskins soar back and forth, and Old Man Dummy is getting what is coming to him now, after nine months of rest. The way the Red and Black warriors hit him is a shame, causing him to sweat bits of sawdust at every lick.

Seven of last year’s Varsity are back, and around this as a nucleus, Coach Grey is building this season’s Red and Black machine. Hammet, captain and star tackle, is back at his old position and looking fit as ever. Davis will be on the other side of the line in the same position. Douglas is back at his former position on end. LaFar and Romefelt will probably take care of the guard positions. Cassell is the only Varsity backfield man to return so far. It is too early yet to predict as to the new men, but several are showing up conspicuous in their relative positions. They will no doubt give the veteran players a hot race for the purse, and last year’s scrub team is not to be held too lightly. Several of the scrubs are making good and will undoubtedly win places when the whistle blows for the first game, October 25.

News from up around Coach Fetzer’s camp at N. C. State is rather scarce as yet, but this much is sure: the Tech eleven is not going to be a bit worse than it was last year. Coach “Bill” has his proteges out sweating off the old avoirdupois and when they line up at the other end of the gridiron against us September 25, they will be in first-class shape. Fifty or more candidates are out, and prospects are bright for a banner Red and White eleven. All of last year’s team is back. Young, at guard, graduated, and Whitaker, at center, are the only two men to be lost, and aside from these, the rest of the veterans will be on deck. Faucett, All-Southern; Gurly, Pierson, of the backfield, and Murray, Yankee baseball property, also in the backfield, are on hand. In the line “Doggie” Weathers and (Continued on page 7)

WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE.

Friday—Davidsonians arrive.
Friday, 7:30 p.m.—Movies at
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.—Freshman initiation into Literary Societies.
Sunday, 6:30—"Y" Services.

WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO FOR DAVIDSON THIS YEAR?