THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or commission. Address TODD OIL & PAINT CO.,
Cleveland, O.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
All the mission Sunday Schools reported good attendance for Sunday. A great deal of interest is being shown at all
of the schools. A plan is being arranged which, when carried out, will arouse even more interest in the schools
as a whole. The attendance at the different schools was as follows:

Cornelius - 3
Shearer Chapel - 7
Mill - 2
Caldwell - 12
Brawley’s - 4
Oak Grove - 6
Total - 37

Bible Classes.
Where were you last Sunday morning at 10 o’clock? Only a very few attended the Bible classes at that hour.
Four floors did not even have a meeting. Get a good start for the spring term by attending your class
next Sunday. They last only half an hour, so you have plenty of time after they close to dress for
church. The attendance on the floors having classes was as follows:

Rumple—
East Side - 19
West Side - 18
Total - 37

Watts—
First Floor - 10
Second Floor - 12
Third Floor - 14
Total - 36

Georgia—
First Floor - 4
Third Floor - 5
Total - 9

Chambers—
South Wing—
Third Floor - 10
North Wing—
First Floor - 7
Third Floor - 10
Total - 27

Grand total - 109

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.
The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.
Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For
catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address THE REGISTRAR.

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VA.
Perfectly appointed buildings, spacious grounds, well-balanced curriculum, strong faculty. For catalogue address W. W. MOORE, D. D., LLD., President.

Prospective “Y” Secretaries Take Notice.
The following letter was received by Chalmers several days ago. Anyone interested will please get in communication with Mr. Weatherford,
Nashville, Tenn., at once:

Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 12, ’20.
Mr. D. M. Chalmers,
1606 Elizabeth Ave.,
Charlotte, N.C.

Dear Mr. Chalmers:
You perhaps are aware that the War Work Council of the Young Men's Christian Association is contemplating helping ex-service men
secure further educational advantages. I am hoping that a number of these men may come to the Southern College to
get this advanced training. That is, men who are planning to give their lives to religious work, whether in the
ministry or in the Association work, could find here in connection with our schools the very finest training. If you
know of such an ex-service man, who has had some college training and is eager to take advanced work to
prepare himself for Christian service, will you not urge him at once to get into communication with his State Secretary
of the Young Men’s Christian Association and see if he could not secure scholarship aid for coming to us? I
would greatly appreciate your sending me the names of any such men or your co-operation with us in any possible
way. I know you are deeply interested in the Association College because of my past correspondence with you. These scholarships
will evidently be assigned very promptly, so that any men you find ought to look into this matter at once.

Yours sincerely,
W. D. Weatherford, Pres.

THE HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY JEWELERS
611 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

BROWN’S CAFE
THE SENSIBLE PLACE TO EAT
Boys, When in Charlotte Eat at Brown's Cafe
AN AMERICAN PLACE FOR AMERICAN PEOPLE

Booe’s Market
Fresh Meats At All Times

GENTLEMEN
When in need of tonsorial work, give us a trial
Norton Barber Shop
Next to Post Office

HERE AND THERE ON THE TRIP TO DES MOINES
The delegates from the two Carolinas lived together like a big family on the special train which was run from
Asheville to Des Moines and return. Many were the friendships which were formed between the delegates of the different colleges,
and many a student came to a better realization of the fact that his or her own college does not
have a corner on all the good things. The Davidsonians who made the trip wish to express their feelings of
the deepest friendship for every college which was represented on the train as well as for the delegates of these
colleges. May we ever be the best of friends, and always remember the pleasant companionship which we enjoyed on this
trip.

The people of Des Moines certainly treated their guests in the kindest possible way. No effort was spared in the
attempt to provide for the comfort of the delegates, and conditions could hardly have been pleasanter. The Davidson delegation joins
with hundreds of others in expressing its appreciation of the welcome which was extended them.

Among the most pleasant memories of their trip to Des Moines the Davidson boys will “remember ever” the friendships formed
on the journey to and from the convention. As has been intimated, the entire delegation seems to be especially strong
for the girls from N. C. College. Certainly, their delegation would be hard to beat, and the Davidson boys are
doubtful as to whether this is a possibility. May the bond of real friendship which was established between the two
delegations be the means of drawing their colleges into closer fellowship.

The weather man was indeed kind to the Volunteers. The lowest temperature registered during the convention was eight degrees below.
The delegates were informed that the thermometer had registered 40 below only a few days previously.

It seems that there are some character readers in Des Moines at any rate. At one cafeteria in Des Moines,
Bitzer was delighted by the following menu:
Frankfurters and Sauerkraut
Sweet spuds
Spaghetti, a la fountain

Mauze at a soda fountain: Do you have a lover's delight?
Young lady friend: No, I have mine in Richmond.

Carolina Student, alighting from a train:The track is the town on? A Dozen Knights of the Fresh Class to Protect
“Y” Room.

For some time past, the need for a committee to look after the “Y” social room has been felt by
the students who have availed themselves of the privileges offered there. Such a committee has recently been appointed by Chalmers,
president of the Y. M. C. A., with J. P. Price at its head. There are 12 men of the
Freshman class who are divided up into six teams, two men serving each day in the week when the room
is in use. Their duty will consist of being in the social room during the hours in the evening to
look after and care for the equipment which has been placed there for the enjoyment of all the students. The
men serving and the days on which they will be on duty are:

Monday—J. W. Cooper, M. J. Murray.
Tuesday—J. M. Bostwick, Brown.
Wednesday—C. R. Crawford, W. B. McCutcheon.
Thursday—Joe Warren, J. O. Hunter.
Friday—R. L. Dick, G. W. Mauze.
Saturday—T. L. Fraser, G. S. Logan.

Mr. Miles to Address “Y” Next Sunday.

On next Sunday night, Mr. Miles will speak at the “Y” meeting, no doubt giving one of his usual good
talks. The new songbooks will be on hand, and there will be a song service. This should also be of
interest to the boys, and it is urged that everyone be in attendance at the meeting.

Chance to Participate in Parker Fund Soon to be Presented.

Preparation for the annual canvass of the student body for the Parker fund is now under way. The committee has
appointed W. B. Sullivan to be chairman of this campaign. Several years ago, the Davidson student body, with only an
enrollment of about 275 students, took upon itself the task of raising half of Mr. Parker's salary, their present missionary
to Korea. With the present enrollment of over 400, the students should almost double this subscription. Mr. Parker is now
in America on furlough. The students are looking forward with pleasure to his visit sometime soon.

SCRIPTURE GIFT MISSION, SPECIAL WORK.

The American Branch of the Scripture Gift Mission of London, England, feels sure American Christians will be deeply interested in
these special efforts to circulate the Scriptures.

Indian Peace Celebrations.

The “Peace” celebrations in India are to take place during the month of December. The Secretary of the Scripture Gift
Mission has just received some interesting information from the Superintendent of the work in India. He says that they are
printing special Bible Portions in all the chief dialects of the Indian Empire. These will set forth in the words
of Holy Scripture why Christ died, speaking of the Resurrection, the need of faith in the finished work of Calvary,
and urging repentance upon all, and the cover will be an appropriate picture of the King, and a copy of
the letter written by the King about his daily Bible Reading.

$308,000 in forty-five days.

During the same period, twenty-eight Training School men produced $2,694,000, an average of $96,000 per man. A course in our
Training School at the Home Office, and then keep in touch with him and help him overcome his weak points
and strengthen his strong points. As a result, our Training School men are making good. Drop us a line and
ask us to give you full particulars.

Southern Life and Trust Company
Greensboro, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President.
R. G. Vaughn, First Vice-President.
A. M. Scales, Second Vice-President.
R. J. Mebane, Third Vice-President.
Arthur Watt, Secretary.
H. B. Gunter, Assistant Secretary.

It is hoped that about a million and a quarter, at least, Gospels and Scripture Portions will be distributed amongst
those who will be visiting the large towns for the celebrations. It is also hoped to present a special bound
“Peace Testament” to many of the chief native officials in India. The demand for the Scriptures all over the country
seems to be growing fast, and hundreds of letters are received from Missionaries of all Societies, at the Calcutta depot,
appealing for grants of Scriptures.

The Gospel in France.

The Scripture Gift Mission has undertaken a very large and far-reaching work in France, a work which French Christian workers
have taken up very keenly, and all feel that it is a thing which France needs today. The idea is
as far as possible to systematically place a gospel in every home in that country. Much care will be exercised
in the efforts, and all readers are asked to remember this special work before the Throne of Grace. It cannot
be done in a day. It is expected to take some years to be fully accomplished, but it is a
scheme which surely must appeal to all lovers of the Bible. The cost will not be small, and the Mission
has asked for special donations, but surely if the Word can only be gotten into the homes of France it
will be worth spending much money. The ignorance in France regarding the Scriptures is appalling. Many have never heard the
name Gospel, and have no idea as to what it is, or the message it contains. It is hoped to
form centers all over the country, from which the workers will radiate and thus reach the villages. A beginning has
already been made in Paris, Marseilles, Nantes, Lyons, and other large towns and encouraging reports come in from time to
time. Gifts for the furtherance of the work of distribution of the Scripture may be sent to the Secretary of
the American Branch, Robert B. Haines, Jr., 119 South Fourth Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Drawing the Line.

The Chairman—Don't you think, gentlemen, in view of the high cost of living, we ought to increase our pastor's salary?
Vestryman—That's all right. But don't pay him for overtime on sermons.
—Life.

So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. And let the beauty of
the Lord our God be upon us.
The Evangelical.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.

White Drug Company
The Rexall Store
