to travel a whole day (not by train) to get to his home after he reaches Concord. Though this loyal
son of Hibernia has never been known to study a lesson, he is the inventor and perfecter of the Peanut
Parcher, with which he has roasted all his enemies—and all his friends. But just the same he is a pretty
decent fellow.

THE SENIOR’S OWN (Continued from page 5)

Fertile soil isn’t the only kind of soil that can produce fruits which ripen in due season. He has won
the hearts of the students by his heavy stick work on the baseball team, having caused many college pitchers’ averages
to be lowered. It is with much regret that we give him up, but here’s hoping his old batting eye
won’t fail him as he plays the great game of life.

Baso Profundo

Sample Gilbert’s principal vocation is singing—morning, noon, and night, he keeps south wing Chambers in a high state of excitement.
On the side line, he manages to sell sweaters—and anything else he can sell to unsuspecting Freshmen. He has not
yet decided whether he will be a surgeon or a salesman. But whichever one he does become, we predict that
he will soon be a rich man. He has always been a success when it comes to “gathering in the
herbs.”

Sister Eddie Sanders

Miss Sanders is a profound student and scholar of two times two plus three minus six, which he says is
No. 1. He believes in having a definite ambition. It is understood that from the light gotten from some of
his mathematical discussions, he is about to bring before the world his entirely new system of mathematics. Having had him
wished off on to us by the class of '21, it is with the utmost pleasure that we wish him
off on the world, with full confidence in his ability to make his mark in it.

Bessie Shields

What we are going to do for a man to take “Bessie’s” place is a most complex question. Bess has
been prime leader in the musical life during his sojourn with us. As to local talent, he is unexcelled at
Davidson. When he performs on the saxophone, large crowds soon gather to hear him. At the movies, his skill at
the piano is the leading feature, and when he is in Charlotte, Garver Davis considers it a great asset to
have Bess join his orchestra. He is a true son of Orpheus, and it is not enough to say he
will be missed when he leaves us; but his going away will mean a great loss to both the students
and to the college.

Miscellaneous Siske

Manly Arphew Siske hails from Beaufort. He lives up to his initials, M. A., for he also got one of
those things this year. He used to room with Pebble Stone, but is now getting over it, I think. There
has been something radically wrong with him, and it lasted till commencement. He will go into the rubber business this
summer in Akron—after that, who can tell.

Lady Killer Smith

Red Smith, the lad from Missouri, swung a northbound freight early in September, 1916, arriving in the metropolis of Davidson
several days later. Much to Red’s disappointment, there was no street car to bring him and his heavily loaded suitcase
to Chambers. Red began his college career as a Freshman of no mean reputation, and, unlike so many, lived up
to it. If you want to know the area and population of any city, town, village, or cross-road in either
of the five continents, see the young high school professor-to-be. Red has taught several days since entering college. He is
one of the few who can make dates with girls while showing them how to work Algebra problems at the
blackboard. Red, during his college course, has changed his address to The Hollow, Va. He tells us that he has
found a young, beautiful light-haired girl, one whom he would never tire of looking at. We hope that at the
Reunion in 1925 we will all get to meet her.

Peanut Parcher Spence

This loyal son of the land of bogs and of brogues is one of our most distinguished novices: he has
endeavored to be different from the rest of the world, and all the world has helped him along by striving
with might and main to avoid being considered a counterpart to this mad March hare—who registers on the college books
from Concord and has

Red Sullivan

An engaging smile, an Irishman’s greatest weapon, and a pompadour that stands alone with a dash of freckles and an
inability to stop a pig in a ditch and you have our Irishman, W. B. Sullivan. Red-headed, of course, and
noted for knocking a baseball out of the lot and shooting professors is a favorite pastime with this Mick. Would
that Davidson had more Irish like him.

Pig Iron Sutton

Parham George Sutton, track man, baseball player, grid-iron performer of repute, hails originally and from time to time from the
humble little hamlet of Calypso, N. C. He is more commonly known as “Pig Iron,” but of late has become
famous as “The President of the Athletic Association.” His first appearance in these classical shades of learning was as a
member of the class of '19, but knowing that a wise man changeth his mind, he later cast his lot
with the class of '20. Without a doubt “Pig Iron” is the most thought of man on the hill. Those
whose organs of audition are keen invariably have a sudden (Sutton) thought every morning at 7:15. And what is more,
thoughts of him lodge in their ears throughout the day. Calypso may be justly proud of her famous son.

Fire Alarm Thomas

F. A. Thomas is the man who ran one over on ’em by taking ten tickets last fall. He did
not show great interest in the old dip until late in his career, but we'll have to hand it to
the man who gets off ten tickets in one term that he must be good and must have lots of
Pull. If he can work folks that way from now on, he ought to be president about fifteen years before
he’s old enough to be constitutionally eligible.

(Musical) Artist Tremain

Doubtless, dear reader, you have noticed that the M. A. comes before rather than after the name. Nor does M.
A. T. necessarily signify that he is a great wrestler, but note his record if you will, on four nights,
May 12-15: Martel the “boy wonder,” met and floored in succession such famed artists on the mat as Beethoven, the
brawny German; Bizet, the agile Frenchman; Tchaikovsky, the sinewy Russian; and Liszt, the incomparable Hungarian. Yes, sirree, that lad from
Wilmington is going some. Wilmington should be proud of him and Davidson is truly grateful for the loan of him
for three years. And that reminds us that it took this prodigy only three years to floor every professor on
the “Hill” and win his A.B. Goodbye, Martel, don’t stop here, but win an M.A. to follow as well as
precede your name.

Al Wilson

Sergeant Alexander Love Wilson, of Company A, is the social lion of the campus. Blessed with good looks and hair
that will part in the middle, he vamps ’em all. Everybody likes him. If reports are true, and he is
all that he seems, we will soon hear of the “Alligator Pear” King of Florida, A. Love Wilson. We are
all with you, Al, and we'd like to see you come back once in a while.

Friend Wilson

Squire Wilson, our most noted Jew, was a friend of all and loved by a few. He studied hard and
sat up at night to see how he might make work light. This esteemed gentleman passed only three years here
at Davidson. For this reason, we are inclined to forgive him for many of his faults, which are several in
number but small of importance. Combined with these excuses are his good qualities, so we might say that he is
square with the world on that score. An article might be written from two standpoints. First, from the things that
“Friend” claims to be and to do; and second, from what others think of his actions and what he is.
However, this is an entirely neutral view of the subject. There is only one thing that the student body is
in doubt about concerning the said “Tar Heel.” Why is it that he was not valedictorian, editor of The Davidsonian,
president of the school, and mayor of the town, if, as he says, “You can’t beat brains?”

Lovely Ladies’ Man

Wilson says he would have been Woodrow’s first cousin if their grandfathers had only been the same person. Hailing from
the noble city of Mt. Olive, the home of Lieutenant Maynard, he bids fair to become an adept at shooting
as much hot air as the worthy airman burns gas. We hear his ambition is to study medicine, presumably the
surgery of treatingthe seas, where men were fighting diseases of peach and apple trees. For us and our freedom, threatened
by autocracy, awakened us into a new realization of the meaning of political brotherhood. Moral and spiritual forces in operation
there in turn brought us to realize that the greatest and highest things in life were at stake and again
were we mentally enlarged and ennobled in our desire that these highest values should not perish. Following a new mindedness
politically came an international mindedness and we resolved in this higher and more exalted mood that we would sacrifice all
sooner than see freedom, and justice and right perish from the earth. America grew taller, and greater, in emotion and
sympathy and consciousness of brotherhood. Then followed a recognition of the profound significance of cooperation on a mighty scale, the
nation was fused together and there sprang into being a consciousness of the solidarity of our nation. In turn there
came the willingness to sacrifice, to buy bonds, to have sugarless days, wheatless days, meatless days. There came the camps,
the entraining, the ocean passage for our boys and their campaigns in France and America grew greater, bigger, nobler minded
for it. In time the end came. Our great President went to Europe, the hope of the world, the popular
idol of all nations. And then followed the slow, creeping days during which disgraceful, infernal propaganda was set in motion
and we began to forget, to forget. A new mind seemed to seize America, that other mind out of which
the war had raised us. “Let the world perish, we will keep our own.” We have slipped back, far back,
as evidenced in the pessimism of the returned soldiers declaring that were another war upon us he would not don
the khaki but a pair of overalls, as did thousands of others a few years ago and draw his $8
a day along with the workman profiteer. Evidenced again in the bolshevism of the gentleman and scholar to whom the
speaker, a life-long friend, was talking, and who insisted that this is a bad world, a sorry world, it was
a capitalistic war and America can now accomplish nothing worth while till it changes its present constitution and removes the
supreme court, the arch-defender of this constitution and the existing order. No individual should control in his own right any
of these things on which the people of this land must depend for food, shelter and clothing, the American nation
is not intelligent enough to understand the great movement of the times and the revolutionary thought of the age. At
this hour facing conditions of unrest, the day of the profiteer, the nation forgetful of its recent experiences and whole-hearted
sacrifices, and turned back to its lower self, how,” asked the speaker, “are we minded? A few years back we
had confidence, in ourselves and fellows—a feeling of brotherhood, a willingness to lay upon the altar of country and of
the world ourselves, our all, we joined hands and we ‘put things across.’ Have we lost the vision? Has America
lost her soul? We found that justice and righteousness and a sense of brotherhood, of unity of interest could and
did save us in time of war, that spiritual forces in the heart of the world were invincible then. They
are invincible now and can save us in peace if we are minded for these higher and better and nobler
things. If knowledge and friendship, and truth and service for our fellows be the things for which we are minded,
America, the world can be saved. How are you minded, gentlemen of the graduating class?”

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

DAVIDSON HONORED (Continued from page 1)

was affectionately introduced by Dr. Martin as one of his sons since he was an alumnus, spoke of the past
glories and achievements of Davidson, and the Assembly left to go back to Charlotte.

CLASS OF ‘20 AND Y. M. C. A. (Continued from page 1)

“What the root is to the tree, that creed is to conduct.” “True religion sometimes gets a man into trouble,
but it also gets him out if he relies entirely on God.” “Only faith, creed, and prayer like Daniel’s can
carry us through.” “Life is the jailor, death, the angel come to set us free.” “Death is only a tunnel;
a blaze of light, the light of heaven, illuminates the other end for the Christian.” The sermon made a profound
impression upon all present, and everyone felt stronger for hearing it. The warmest of thanks and appreciation and the best
of wishes go out from the students of Davidson to Dr. MacNeill.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

DEGREES CONFERRED (Continued from page 1)

new professors was necessarily postponed. The Bible Medal was then presented by Dr. Hammond to D. M. Chalmers. The Senior
Orator's Medal was also won by Chalmers. The President mentioned that if there were a unit system for medals as
well as for college activities, “Dwight” would be ruled out, as he has received in all nine medals and a
debating emblem. The Alumni Association Medal, awarded for the highest mark in the Freshman class, was presented to D. H.
Ogden. The honor roll was read and the punctuality roll, upon which quite a number of names appeared. The President
then spoke of the deep regret that the college feels at the loss of our honored and respected R. O.
T. C. commander, Capt. A. H. Mueller. He also acknowledged with thanks the generosity of the patrons of the college
in subscribing to the needs of the institution. D. M. Chalmers closed the exercises by delivering the valedictory. With ready
wit and keen insight he told of the feelings of mingled joy and sorrow with which he and his classmates
approached the time of parting. He gave a glowing tribute to the faculty and thanked them for their labors in
behalf of the class. He then told of the future which loomed up so bright before the college and charged
the succeeding classes to live true to the high ideals for which the college has been so long noted. He
closed with a few last words of parting in which he bade the college a touching farewell, and urged his
classmates to press forward and onward toward even greater and more magnificent successes in after life. The benediction was pronounced
by Dr. Hammond. Thus commencement ended. The new era in the lives of the departing students has begun.

He was seated in the parlor, And he said unto the lights: “Either you or I old fellow, Will be
turned down tonight.” —Yellow Jacket Weekly.

Sam—“Ah done heard dat dey fin’ Columbus’s bones.” Ezra—“Lawd, Ah never knew dat he wuz a gambling man.”
