THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. CANNON, OF ST. LOUIS, KILLED BY AUTOMOBILE
Struck by Car in Front of Home. Dies Within Few Hours.

Rev. James F. Cannon, D.D., pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church, of St. Louis, Mo., was struck and killed by an automobile in front of his own home on the afternoon of March 12. The details of the accident are not known other than the fact that he lived until 8 o’clock that night. Dr. Cannon was born in Cabarrus County, North Carolina, January 3. He attended Davidson College, from which he graduated in 1869. His first pastorate was the church of Leesburg, Va., where he remained for eight years. He then served the church of Shelbyville, Tenn., for seven years. In 1888, Dr. Cannon became pastor of the Grand Avenue Church (now the Westminster Church) of St. Louis, Mo., which he continued to serve until his death. A brilliant man in college, and a zealous Christian in his everyday life, Dr. Cannon has endeared himself to all those with whom he has come in contact. It is worthy to note that Dr. Cannon is the second member of his class to die within two weeks, Col. A. R. Banks, of Columbia, S. C., preceding him. It may also be of note that this class of 1869 made the highest average of any class in Davidson history, averaging about 98.

HILL-BLACK.
The wedding of Miss Margaret W. Hill and Mr. Arthur F. Black, '10, has been announced to take place in April.

J. S. WINGO HEADS AUTO FIRM IN SPARTANBURG
J. S. Wingo is now head of the firm of J. S. Wingo & Co., of Spartanburg, S. C., dealers in auto equipment. For fourteen years Mr. Wingo was with the Weddington Hardware Company, of Charlotte. The firm has adopted the system of tithing, and will give one-tenth of its income to the Southern Home Institute, a notable charity of Spartanburg.

H. B. Elliott, '18, now of Charlotte, visited his parents in Davidson last Sunday. Though the campus has long been a familiar sight to “Harry,” he never fails to avail himself of an opportunity to come back.

Andrew Brown, '17, was on the Hill last week. He is now located in Ripley, Miss.

Union, as they were at Davidson. During their stay at Davidson they were not only among the leaders in class and literary society work, but also in “Y” work and volunteer work. A striking coincidence is that both of them are ex-presidents of the college Y. M.C. A. These men have returned to their studies at Richmond, but they leave behind them a powerful influence which will be felt in the councils of the various organizations and in the minds of the men on the campus for many a day.

EXCHANGES.
(Continued from page 4)

It’s a great, dense bank of fog. It tells you you can get your meals for dollars five a week— And still that place I seek. That book will cost you only eight is another thing I’ve seen, I’ve bought but barely half of mine, they cost me seventeen. So I call to all great authors, from the modern to the past, to doff their hats in mute defeat— they’ve lost their throne at last, for the greatest piece of fiction is the calm collegiate diction, —"The Lafayette.”

RAINBOW GOLD.
The pot of gold at the rainbow’s foot was a legend of childhood days— a fairy story we took for truth— and we followed, with a wistful gaze, the glittering arch to the purple hills, where it faded away from sight, but the mystic gold to our childish eyes was fadeless and pure and bright. But that shining goal we could never reach— ’twas always so far away, and the shadows came on the distant hills and the rainbow tints turned gray. But we never despaired, and we never could doubt, and our hopes of wealth ran high, for that pot of gold we could always see when the rainbow spanned the sky. The fancies of childhood have long since passed, and gone are the dreams of old, the fabled pot of gold— the goal that we strive for, but may not win, as bitterly we confess— the aim of ambition’s high desires and a measure of brief success. I would be true, for there are those who trust me; I would be pure, for there are those who care; I would be strong, for there is much to suffer; I would be brave, for there is much to dare. I would be a friend to all—the foe—the friendless;would be giving, and forget the

THE RALEIGH
CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE
Clothing
J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop.
I would look up—and laugh—and
221 W. Trade St. : Phone 3486
We are receiving every day ship-
jove—and lift.
—H. A. Walter.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.
Campus Togs
Fashion Park
Hirsh Wicken and Kincaid & Kimball
There are none better or we would have them.

THE FRESHMAN SITTING ON THE CAMPUS.
L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES FRUITS, ETC.

The Freshman sitting on the campus.
“Lo, Bill.”
“Lo, Jim.”
“This is sure a rotten college, ain’t it?”
“Ye’p, no spirit.”
“Nope, no spirit.”
“None of the guys here know anything about college spirit.”
“Nope, the poor boobs.”
“D'jur hear the rotten cheering at the game?”
“Nope, I didn’t go.”
“Neither did I.”
“What’s the use, there ain’t no spirit.”
“No spirit.”
“S’long, Bill.”
“S’long, Jim.”

See me for your feeds
Come look them over.
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.
34 S. Tryon
WHITE'S MARKET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A kiss,
A last good-bye,
Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.
And then he’s gone.
A glance,
And the world goes on.
—The Log.

EVAPORATION.
We’ve all heard of fuel conservation and food conservation, but this is the latest. The other day we dropped into the office of a local insurance agent and found him busily engaged in writing a letter, though he took time between each dip of the pen to replace the stopper in his ink bottle.

WORTH WHILES.
The things we put off are the small things, but by putting them off they become big things.
“It’s all in a man.” For we either dust off your desk and get to work.
If we notice little pleasures
As we notice little pains;
If we quite forget our losses
And remember all our gains;
If we look for people’s virtues
And their little faults refuse to see,
But perhaps when the storms of life are done,
What a comfortable, happy, cheerful place this world would be!

Emery Flinn, '19, and George Crouch, '18, both of Charlotte, paid a visit to Davidson campus last Saturday.
H. S. Elliott, '14, since his release from the service, is a cotton dealer at Winnsboro, S. C.
A. Bruce Curry, Jr., '06, is on the teaching staff of the Bible Teachers’ Training School, 541 Lexington Avenue, New York City, established by Dr. W. W. White.
Dr. G. H. Cartledge, '11, who resigned his place on the Davidson faculty to do chemical work for the U. S. Government during the war, is chief chemist with the Island Refining Co., of Jones Point, N. Y.
J. C. Cooper, '15, is secretary of the Southern Loan and Realty Co., of Henderson, N. C.
The two Davidson alumni, who have recently paid the campus a visit are W. G. Summerville, '16, and J. L. Fowle, '18. They came as the selections of the Davidson alumni at Union Seminary, for the purpose of stirring up interest in the work of spreading the Word of God and the undertaking of the ministry as a life work. As to the success of their mission, it can safely be said that it was supremely so. These two men are both prominent members of the student body at Union Seminary.

The goal of our heart’s desire—
Far better than aught we had ever dreamed,
When life was an endless quest,
In the crown of life and the end of strife,
And all that the heart holds best.
—Service.

“A man without a purpose will get just about as far as a fish without a tail.”

“Oh—wad some power the giftie gie us
To see ourselves as ithers see us;
Methinks ‘twould so reduce our chests
That we could have our little vests
Wrapped thrice around, and still so slack
That they could button in the back.”
—California Univ. Pelican.

THE PROBLEM.
I am standing at the blackboard;
I’ll figure ‘till the bell;
I cannot solve the problem,
And professor knows it well.
I am standing at the blackboard
At the setting of life’s sun;
I cannot solve life’s problems,
But the Master says, “Well done.”

When the items are all produced;
You’ll find, St. Peter’s been keeping
And that chickens come home to roost.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

Give us your work. Give us a trial.
Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643