THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920

ALUMNI NEWS

NOTICE TO ALUMNI WHO DESIRE POSITIONS TEACHING

Any alumnus who wishes to secure a position teaching next fall should communicate at once with Dr. J. Moore McConnell, at Davidson. Dr. McConnell is in touch with several good positions and can be of great benefit to those who desire to take up this work. As the offers which he has are somewhat limited, communications in this regard should be made at once.

JOHN R. MINTER TO BECOME VICE-CONSUL

Alumni and friends throughout the Carolinas of John Russell Minter, '12, will be interested to know that he will very probably be appointed soon as vice-consul, having successfully passed the examination at Washington. Mr. Minter spent about two years in the war service, an officer in the Marines, returning to the United States last summer. A few weeks ago he married Miss Thorpe, daughter of a Pittsburgh steel manufacturer, and is at present located in Washington on the reportorial staff of a Washington paper while waiting appointment and assignment in the government service.

J. P. Paisley, who has been bookkeeper for the Clem Lumber Company, has been promoted to manager of the Paris branch of that company, and is located in Paris, Tex.

REV. J. E. BROWN PASSES AWAY AFTER LONG ILLNESS

News has been received of the death of Rev. J. Edmunds Brown, which occurred in Tranquil Park Sanitarium, Charlotte, N. C., where he had been taking treatment for the past three weeks. Mr. Brown’s health had not been good for some time, having broken himself down during the war in his activities as resident of the Red Cross chapter in Jackson, Tenn., and district manager of the Y. M. C. A. campaign in addition to his pastorate work. He suffered a nervous breakdown a few weeks ago, gradually growing worse until the end came. Mr. Brown graduated at Davidson in 1896. He was a basketball and tennis player of note and an active Y. M. C. A. worker, being very popular among the boys. He was a native of Charlotte, but had been serving a pastorate in Jackson, Tenn. The funeral and interment were held in Charlotte.

ALUMNI NEWS

James Fowle, '18, and W. R. Summerville, '16, will spend the weekend here in the interest of Union Seminary.

Mr. Edward Johnston, '14, is at Columbia University taking a course in school administration. He is principal of Mrs. Reynolds’ school in Winston.

Dave Roberts, ex-'20, was delegate to the Missionary Conference.

Mr. John Scott, '11, is practicing law in Statesville.

Pete Creighton, '15, is taking active interest in athletics in Charlotte.

Mr. Bennett, '18, who is now engaged in the cotton business in Belmont, Tenn., was a delegate to the conference.

Cards have been received announcing the birth of John McMullen, on March 4, son of Mr. and Mrs. Stacy Farrior, at Lincolnton, N. C. Mr. and Mrs. Farrior are on furlough from China during this year. Mr. Farrior was a member of the class of '12.

The Library has added to its alumni collection, a little book by Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D., President of Union Theological Seminary, entitled, “A Real Boy Scout.”

Sergt. Carlisle C. Cochran, medical detachment, Thirtieth infantry, has been awarded the D. S. C. for extraordinary heroism in action near Crezany, France, July 15, 1916. Sergeant Cochran was a member of the class of '16.

T. M. Hill, ex-'16, is doing graduate work at Princeton University.

The Bank of Davidson Has Lock Boxes For Rent

Your business is solicited

John L. Douglas, Pres., W. E. Theapesa, Cash., Lee Steen, V-Pres., A. S. Beard, AssistantCashier Rev. G. L. Whitely, ex-’12, and Mrs. Whitely were visitors on Thursday en route home from the Interchurch Conference in Charlotte.

Messrs. R. H. Bennett, ex-’15, and C. Howell, ex-’19, from Belmont, N. C., were among the Volunteer visitors of the weekend.

Knox and Barnette
Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

S. A. Chambliss, ex-’19, has an instructive and interesting article in the current issue of the World’s Work on “Cotton Growing in the West,” with particular reference to long staple cotton and its growth in America. Mr. Chambliss, with Mr. J. C. Harper, ex-’14, is working with the Guaranty Trust Co. in New York City.

DR. HARDING WELCOMED BACK TO THE CAMPUS
Greek Professor Resumes Position After Long Illness.

Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices.

All the Davidson student body and especially those who are taking German or Soph-Greek, were rejoiced at the news of Dr. Harding’s return to regular class work on last Friday. Through his long siege of sickness, we have deeply sympathized with him and have anxiously awaited news of his welfare. We are glad to say that very little time was lost from his class work as his various classes were distributed among several other members of the faculty, Drs. Grey and Lingle and Professor Reed bearing most of the burden. Some of his classes met in the drill period and others in the afternoon. However, this worked a hardship on both professors and students, therefore we are doubly glad to see him take his place again in our midst and to see him looking so much better than we expected.

C. B. Fetner, ex-’12, has been appointed deputy clerk of the U. S. Court of the Western District of N. C., with headquarters at Charlotte.

BROWN’S
Drinks Are Unexcelled
The Sensible Place to Eat
Special service given to your prescriptions.
17 South Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Jetton Drug Co.

Do You Want a Change in that Old Suit or Hat? See Us

Yours truly,
ALL ROADS LEAD TO CHARLOTTE, N. C.
—LOOK OUT FOR—
“Blind Husbands”
THE PICTURE THAT WILL OPEN YOUR EYES

The Ben Vonde Co.
Have it fixed up by Expert Dyers and Cleaners
Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

Before You Buy a Piano or Phonograph
Get our prices. We can save you money. Cash or easy payments.
MAGNESS & SAIN
301 North Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
The final added touch, the delightful extra feature which will cause your college function to be gratefully remembered for years afterwards. BROWN’S (“the orchestra of distinction”) has achieved a tuneful individuality among discriminating special leaders of eastern universities. For engagements, write D. S. BROWN.
Brown Brothers’ Orchestra
1524 Chestnut Street
PHILADELPHIA, PA.

New Spring Suits for College Boys
New, up-to-date models at $25, $29.50, $35, $39.50, $49.50.
New Spring Hats in all new shades at $3, $3.50, $4, $5, $6, $7.
New Silk Neckwear at 50¢, $1, $1.50, $2, $2.50.
Silk Half Hose at 98¢, $1.15, $1.25
WE SELL Bion F. Reynolds and Ralston Shoes
BELK BROS.

Patronize Our Advertisers
THEY GUARANTEE SATISFACTION