THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 18, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

We strive to please——ourselves.

A wise guy
Failed to spot,
That’s just why
He got shot.

Queens girl at Charlotte station coming to Davidson: “Ticket to Heaven please.”

We can extend our sympathy in connection with the Bonus difficulty, Charlotte Observer. We too have our afflictions in the form of R. O. T. C. forum articles.

Historians and Economists among the students for some unknown reason seem inclined McAdooward.

Sergeant: “All right, Bailey, if you can’t keep up with your pants you'll have to hang ’em in the armory at night.”

If the light-lifters are gentlemen they'll refrain from taking the remaining light on the Campus.

The clock struck 11:47. Hodgin knew there was something he had forgotten to do. The lights flashed. They went out. Still he sat enveloped in a mist of thought trying to think what he had forgotten. He remembered, ah! It was to go to bed. So he went.

“My watch is broke” The Fresh did cry.
The Sophomore said, “Well so am I.”

The self-made man is being rapidly displaced by the friend-made man.

Probably the idea of establishing a chair of Economics is to instruct some of the future school teachers in how to live on a salary approaching zero as a limit.

“Davidson never does anything by halves.” Probably the reason we didn't get a half-holiday for the conference.

Davidson, along with her other distinctions, has the champion taxpayer of these parts. A local youth recently purchased a dog for $0.05 and then paid a $2.00 tax on it.

Prominent senior, who attended 5 1-4 hours of conference Sunday wishes to know if he can get credit for it in the form of chapel cuts.

Meacham: “You like a M.R.?”
Skeeter: “Like a what?”
Meacham: “Oh! I'll tell you next year.”

“Doubles, you look to—”

Only one couple was seen on the cupola Sunday: Gus Summers and Gilmer.

“How to Guide” is the subject of a coming lecture before R. O. T. C. by McGuken.

By way of suggestion:
Rub a dub dub
Rub a dub dub
We are the men of
The McAdoo Club.

The poet wrote a line thus:
“Lost in each other’s charms,”
But when the printer set it
“Lost in each other’s arms.”
The author when he saw it;
On viewing the mistake
Only asked the question:
“What difference does it make?”

12:30 snappy meetings planned for the—

If you don’t see anything to this column you better laugh anyway in order to avoid being spotted as a blockhead.

Walt Knox: “It wouldn’t hurt me to shave.”
C. K. Brown: (who was performing) “It would if your razor was as dull as mine.”

Gentry: “What were you doing moving around last night?”
Baldwin: “Moving my Hard Boys, if I let ’em stay in one place all night they’ll sink through the floor.”

Radicals: Lenine, Trotsky and Jazz music.

OVER 100 DELEGATES
(Continued from page 3)

Out of College Volunteers. Miss Bonnie Clyde Howard, R. H. Bennett, Clewell Howell, all of Belmont, and D. W. Roberts, of Willard; Leaders. J. Lovell Murray, R. D. Bedinger, J. F. Preston, Misses Helen Hardy and Edith Hazlett, and Mrs. F. J. Willingham.

The following men from Davidson: N. P. Baba, W. F. Beck, Rolston Bitzer, B. B. Breitenhirt, L. G. Calhoun, P. B. Carwile, M. W. Doggett, Jr., J. L. Fraser, W. H. Harrell, C. J. Hollandsworth, Coyte Hunter, T. F. Martin, J. L. Parks, W. C. Smith, L. A. Taylor and Jas. C. Wool. J. E. Johnston registered as a visiting delegate from the office of the Interstate Y. M. C. A. office in Charlotte.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR STARTS NEW TERM WITH A RUSH
Committees to be Appointed Friday Night.

Everyone who attended the C. E. last Sunday got a sample of the coming term. After the installation of officers, J. P. Price took charge and put over an “up-to-the-minute” program. Next Friday night the officers and committee chairmen will meet for the appointing of the various committee members, and for the working up of new society activities. The subject for next Sunday is “Every-Day Courtesies.” Everyone is cordially invited to be present, and to take part in the meeting.

RESOLUTIONS
Adopted by the Student Volunteer Union of North Carolina for Foreign Missions.

Whereas, we have been led by the providence of God to this good hour and have been given a new vision of the world and its needs, and

Whereas, a definite program would lead to more and better results,

Therefore, be it resolved by the Student Volunteer Union of North Carolina for Foreign Missions, in session at Davidson College,March 14, 1920: 

First. That we set as our goal this spring, seventy-five (75) per cent of every student body reached through mission study classes, forums, or some other methods, with the definite call of the world for men and money.

Second. That we unite in a goal of giving at least one dollar per student in our colleges during the session 1919-20 and one dollar and a half per student during 1920-21 for foreign missions.

Third. That the weeks ending the second Sunday in April and the second Sunday in October be set as weeks of prayer when all bands in our union will offer our united prayers that God will call whomsoever He will of our number to become foreign missionaries, and will use us in reaching the hearts of our fellow students.

Fourth. That our college exchange representatives at least once a year, under the direction of our executive committee, thereby creating a spirit of co-operation and fellowship and exchanging ideas and methods.

Fifth. That a copy of these resolutions be inscribed in the minutes of our union, a copy sent to each band in the spring and fall in ample time to prepare for and hold these special weeks of prayer and accomplish the purposes of these resolutions.

Submitted and adopted Sunday afternoon, March 14, 1920.

FRATERNITY RECEPTION ENJOYED BY VISITORS

Probably the biggest event in the experiences of the Volunteers outside of the conference itself was the fraternity reception at 10:30 Saturday night. This reception was similar to those given by the fraternities during the speakings and commencement, and all were invited to visit the halls. It didn’t take long for the visitors to catch on to the routine of the visiting, and before many minutes everything was in full sway. At each hall the delegates and their escorts were led to the punch bowl, and when the rounds had been made, few there were who had not done their duty.

Most of the delegates attended the reception, and those who did not, when they heard about it, wished that they had.

A NOTE FROM OUR REAL FRIENDS

Ask the N. C. College girls if the Davidson conference was a success. They'll say it was! Ask them if the Davidson boys know how to entertain. The answer will be: “You bet! and then some!” Davidson people, we want to thank you all for your goodness to us all.

N. C. College Girls.

VOLUNTEERS SEND NOTE OF APPRECIATION

Student Volunteer Conference, Davidson, N. C., Mar. 12-14.

To the Davidson Student Body and Community:

We, the Student Volunteers of North Carolina, wish to express our thanks to you for your friendly cooperation and true Southern hospitality while we were with you during our yearly conference. We wish to thank especially the Student Body as a whole, the Faculty and friends in town, for inviting us to come to Davidson. Also the Local Conference Committee, led by Mr. R. E. McClure, upon whom most of the burden of arrangements rested. We would not forget Dr. Richards, Mr. Miles, Miss Shaw, Dr. Arbuckle, Mr. Matthews, Mr. Tremain and others who assisted in every way to make the conference a success.

We shall always remember the reception given by the Y. M. C. A. on Saturday afternoon. Also the Lyceum attraction given that night by the Student Body, and the good cheer afterwards given us by the fraternities. We wish above all to thank those who gave us a glimpse of the real life on the mission fields, and those who by the earnestness of their appeal inspired us “to go and do likewise.”

Student Volunteers of N.C.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davideonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643