THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 22, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER

We are receiving every day shipments of clothing from Campus Togs, Fashion Park, Hirsh Wicken, and Kincaid & Kimball. There are none better or we would have them. Come look them over.

First Student—“I’ve got something up my sleeve.”
Second Student (ex-A. E. F.)—“That’s nothing, I've had ‘em all over.”

“I call my mustache ‘Bon Ami.’”
“Why?”
“It hasn’t scratched yet.”

Their lips met—and became pretty well acquainted.

The working man, much to his dismay, finds himself dressed for duty in the height of style.

34 S. Tryon, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Strictly speaking, we ran away with the track meet Friday.

Sure Rule to Reduce H. C. L.:
1. Pay no cash—charge it all.
2. Pay no bills.

Fresh—“Do you shave with this safety razor all the time?”
Upper Classman—“No, just every now and then.”

Heard on Sprunt Field:
“The bases are drunk.”
“How’s that?”
“They’re full.”

THE RALEIGH, CHARLOTTE’S BEST CAFE
J. T. MATTHEWS, Prop. Phone 3486

Now’s the time to come out of winter quarters—We mean shoes.
221 W. Trade St.

Starting New Styles in Men’s Clothes. Economy leading feature in new design: Pants are large, baggy, and not creased or cuffed. Vest and suspenders made on pants to secure simplicity of operation. Seems to be the first step in a “back to nature” movement.

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES, FRUITS, ETC.

Professor—“Our faculty is composed of a very substantial class of men, but none of them are artists; none have the aesthetic sense.”
Student—“There may be no brush artists but there are plenty of bull artists among them.”

See me for your feeds. WE DELIVER.

“Every man has his price.” Red Smith bribed the Peanut Parcher not to publish a certain bone he pulled while away with the Band.

April 15—Well-known Junior appears on campus wearing a cap.
April 16—Well-known Junior appears on campus wearing a hat.
April 17—Well-known Junior appears on campus wearing a felt hat.
April 18—Well-known Junior appears on campus wearing a straw hat.
April 19—Fresh asks well-known Junior, “Say, have you got a bonnet?”

WHITE'S MARKET
THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited. Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

BROWN’S
The Sensible Place to Eat

Both he and she when separated gaze on the same thing, each elated!
Her photograph makes him feel near (h)er. She, for her part, tries out the mirror.

17 South Tryon, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

GENTLEMEN
When in Need of Tonsorial Work, give us a trial.
Norton Barber Shop, Next to Post Office.

Eddie S. (Primping before mirror)—“I’m not satisfied with the way I look.”
C. K. B.—“We ain't either, but we have to put up with it.”

John Gorton—“What are you doing for exercise these days?”
Bobby Long—“Handling rocks in the Geology lab.”

If the new dormitory reaches the preponderous altitude of four stories, we advocate the installation of a slide pole so those who roost high may get to chapel on time.

This Week’s Bone:
Prof—“In French poetry there is no such thing as blank verse. Mr. Brown, in what kind of verse is this play we are reading written?”
E. H.—“Blank verse, doctor.”

A Treat Coming:
Hugh Smith has promised to give in one of his love letters for publication next week.

Hudson White visited the country. He discovered a covey of pigs, called the chickens “kitty” and wanted to know...if when a horse was single-footing it kept just one foot on the ground at a time. Take a cake of soap and a quart of ink, Dump together in a kitchen sink, Add some scraps of bone and meat, Bits of gristle and six pigs' feet, Stir around for an hour and a quarter, With choice, selected, hot dish water, Season well with a peck of trash, And behold! Delicious, tempting hash. Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

R. O. T. C. NEWS.

The twenty men who are to compose our gallery competition team will be chosen this week. These men will take part in the Department contest to be held the last of April, and will back up our challenge to Wofford College. The International Company has signified its willingness to take pictures of our R. O. T. C. activities, and to publish them in the weekly Review. This offer will probably not be taken advantage of until next fall, but every man is urged to help make Davidson drill worth putting in the movies. The last military formation of the year, which is to take place May tenth, will be a farewell parade in honor of the Seniors. All Seniors, whether R. O. T. C. men or not, will stand in the reviewing line with Col. Meuller, while the battalion passes in review. A full-pack inspection is to come off during the last week. Students should have all their equipment at hand and their rifles in excellent condition at this time, as all articles are to be turned in immediately after the inspection.

EXCHANGES (Continued from page 4)

If a body write a body, Getting no reply; May a body ask a body Who the? What the? Why? —The Hornet.

Is this True to Life? Student—“What would you do, little girl, if I gave you a kiss?” Young Lady—“I’d return it at once, sir. I don’t accept presents from men!” —The Tar Baby.

My boy’s letters always send me to the dictionary. You're lucky. My boy’s letters always send me to the bank. —The Emory Wheel.

A foreign woman went into a drug store. She asked for talcum powder. “Mennen’s?” asked the clerk. “No, vimmen’s.” “Want it scented?” “No, ay tank ay better take it vit me.”

'21—My girl said the ring didn’t fit. '22—Did you get another ring? '21—Nope. ‘Nuther girl. —Tar Baby.

Remember, you quarrelsome lovers, there’s a clinch in every good fight —The Emory Wheel.

Can you afford to miss Blue Ridge?

Film Service

The Bank of Davidson DAVIDSON, N. C. Does Commercial Banking, Runs a Savings’ Department, Has Lock Boxes For Rent Your business is solicited John L. Douglas, Pres., W. S. Thompson, Cash., J. Lee Sloan, V-Pres., J. G. Beard, Assistant Cashier

ARROW Troy Tailored Soft COLLARS

CLUETT, PEABODY & CO.

Robinson Shoe Company We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men's trade Mail orders given special attention. Robinson Shoe Company Gastonia, N. C.

L. B. LONG HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY Farm Produce Bought and Sold

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we print would fill this magazine to describe them—but we have room for your work. Give us a trial. Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643