THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

Athletic News

GASTONIA COUNTRY CLUB WINS GOLF MATCH

Davidson's Players Outclassed by Players From Cotton Mill City.

On last Friday, the second of our golf matches was played, this one with the Gastonia team. The four players, escorted by Mr. Charlie Grey, the president of the club at Gastonia, arrived in the morning and the match was begun early in the afternoon. From the very first, it was evident that our opponents were of excellent ability and that we would have to extend ourselves to keep abreast of them. The match was played in two foursomes. Messrs. Switzer, Lyle, Fricker, and Hawkins composed the first group, and Harrer, Walker, White, and Dr. Woods the second. The driving of the men from Gastonia surpassed ours, but we had the edge on them in putting. Lyle and Harrer were easily the two best players on the course, with the latter pulling down a slightly smaller score. The final score showed Gastonia eight or nine up in both foursomes, giving them the match. White did the best playing for us, and the play was greatly assisted by the able caddying of eight of our foremost golf apprentices in the fresh class.

N. C. STATE GAME

Score by innings: R.H.E.
N. C. State - 020 000 000 - 2 7 1
Davidson - 000 000 000 - 0 4 4

Summary—Two-base hits, Faucett, Crawford; sacrifice hits, Gurley; base on balls, off Murray 3, off Shepard 2; struck out, by Murray 8, by Shepard 7; wild pitches, by Murray 2; hit batsmen, by Murray 1; stolen bases, Kirkpatrick, Murray, Cassell, F.; left on bases, State 9, Davidson 6; time of game, two hours; Umpire, Dehaney; Attendance 1800.

FURMAN GAME

The Wildcats added another scalp to the string by taking Furman into camp to the tune of 8 to 1. The game was slow and unexciting, with few spectacular plays. Notwithstanding this disagreeable feature, the final result was in doubt until Richards slammed out a triple in the seventh with the bases loaded, and put the game on ice. Both teams registered in the first stanza, Furman scoring once and the Wildcats twice. From then on until the sixth, no runs were shoved across, but in this frame, the Presbyterians tallied once. The avalanche in the next inning was the final scoring. Twice the South Carolina lads had beautiful chances to score, but the necessary hit was lacking. The bases were full in both the third and sixth innings, but the third out was an easy one. Furman had ten men left on bases while the winners had four.

CAROLINA AND STATE COLLEGE (Continued from page 1)

DIAMOND DUST

With the season about one-third over, Davidson has won four and lost two. The two games lost were against two of the strongest teams that will be met this season. One game was lost by a one-run margin and the other was lost by two runs. So go GET 'EM, WILDCATS!

Six games have been played for a total of 54 innings. Davidson has scored 35 runs, against 15 for her opponents. Also, 54 hits have been rolled up against 32 for her opponents.

WHAT MAKES 'EM WILD?

Just a little dope on the Wildcat twirling staff:

Currie has won two and lost none. "Buck" has pitched 18 innings, striking out 11, walking 4, and hitting 1. Out of six trips to the plate, he has connected for one safety.

Miley has won one and lost none. "Dill" finished up the Catawba game after Shepard had won it and therefore has pitched a total of 12 innings. Old "Smiling Apple Plug" has struck out 9 and walked 2. Out of two official trips to the plate, he has failed to hit.

The playing of Speer for the losers stood out as a prominent feature during the entire game. The All-Southern quarter made three hits in five trips to the plate and put up a wonderful brand of fielding, making catches of the shoestring variety. The playing of Shepard and Richards featured for the winners. The former got three bingles out of four tries and the latter made a double and a triple in four attempts.

In the former, Ratchford singled and Shepard walked. Richard went out on strikes, but both runners advanced on a passed ball. The Red and Black hopes were shattered a moment later, however, when Wrenn forced Ratchford at the plate and Cassell took the count on three good ones.Ninth, Richards reached first just when his outfield fly was misjudged. Wrenn’s crash to center, as described above, was caught by Norwood after a hard try. Cassell was hit. Knight pitched a good game for the Palmetto state lads, and except for the disastrous seventh, kept the opponents' hits well scattered. He was given miserable support, however, and this accounted for several of the Red and Black runs. Currie, on the mound for the Wildcats, did excellent hurling and worked out of several bad holes. The big boy caused ten of the opposing batters to return to the bench via the strikeout route.

Shepard, pitcher and outfielder, has won 1 and lost 2. “Shep” has pitched 25 innings, striking out 21 and walking 6. He is running second in the hitting, having swatted out seven safeties in 20 tries, for an average of .350. Ten of the Wildcat hits have been for extra bases. Those who have secured hits good for three sacks are Richards and Crawford. “Johnnie” has two to his credit, while “Craw” has one. Seven two-baggers have been made as follows: Richards (2), Cassell, E. McArn, Poe, Shepard, and Crawford.

The scoring was as follows: Furman drew blood in the opening frame when Speer dumped one along the first base line and beat it out by inches. He advanced to second on a passed ball and went to third on Carter’s sacrifice. Nixon flew out but Cox doubled. Rhame ended the inning with a pop fly to the infield. The Wildcats came back strong in this half, however, and put a brace across. Cassell, F. flew to center and Ratchford popped up to shortstop. Shepard lived on an error, stole second, and scored on Richard's double. Wrenn knocked a hot one to short and while he was booting it around, Richards came across. No more scoring was done until the sixth. In this frame, Shepard singled. Richards flew out but Wrenn knocked one to short. The ball got away from him and rolled to center field and Shepard scored by a piece of brilliant base-running. The seventh produced five tallies for the Wildcats. McArn led off with a single to center and went to second on a sacrifice by Currie. Cassell, F. singled and Ratchford followed suit, filling the bases. Shepard singled, scoring McArn. Richards then put the game on ice when, with the count two and two, he slammed the horsehide to the center field fence for a triple, scoring the runners.

A crowd of 1800 was out to see Coach Fetzer's white stockings go to victory over his former proteges from Davidson. Plenty of noise was heard from both sides. The Red and Black supporters were found, mainly, as usual, back of the players’ dugout in the right section of the stands. Queens College was out with their yells for their brother Presbyterian college. The day turned out to be ideal for an exhibition of the national pastime, but the diamond was a bit slow on account of the recent rains and this caused a lag in the fielding.

The box score:

N. C. State AB R H PO A E
Faucette lb 5 0 2 10 0 0
Gurley c 4 0 0 8 1 0
Johnson 3b 4 0 1 1 2 0
Boners rf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Kirkpatrick lf 4 0 0 3 0 0
Ervin ss 0 0 0 1 2 0
Murray p 4 1 2 1 3 0
Wood 2b 4 1 1 1 3 0
Norwood cf 3 0 1 1 0 1

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Cassell, F ss 3 0 1 3 2 0
Ratchford 2b 3 0 1 3 2 0
Shepard p 3 0 1 3 0 0
Richards cf 3 0 1 3 0 0
Wrenn c 3 0 1 3 0 0
McArn 1b 3 0 1 3 0 0
Currie p 3 0 1 3 0 0
Crawford rf 3 0 1 3 0 0
Poe lf 3 0 1 3 0 0

Individual standing, including the game, finds the Wildcat pill tossers lined up as follows:

Player AB H Ave.
Cassell, 3b 17 6 .353
Shepard, p 20 7 .350
Richards, cf 21 6 .276
Poe, lf 15 4 .266
Cassell, F., ss 21 5 .238
Ratchford, 2b 23 5 .218
Crawford, rf 14 3 .214
Wrenn, c 20 4 .200
McArn, 1b 18 3 .166
Currie, p 6 1 .166
Miley, p 2 0 .000
Johnson, c 4 0 .000

Why can’t we back the team at home the same way we do while it is performing away from home? “COME ON, BLEACHERITES.”

When a fellow needs a friend—is when a bounder takes a bad hop.

(Continued on page 7)

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service. He wants your business.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music.

F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM
ACADEMY
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, April 15, 16, 17

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
F. HILL AND MAYO
Singing Comedy Couple

FOUR OF A KIND
A Winning Hand in England

PAUL McCARTHY AND ELSIE FAYE
In “Waiting for Someone”

NEAL ABEL
The Man With the Mobile Face

A VAUDEVILLE SURPRISE