10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1920.

INITIAL PRESENTATION OF WILDCAT MINSTRELS
(Continued from page 1)

exclaimed, “Oh, Susie, Behave,” and gave that well-known song in his inimitable style. The second act was a Musical Revue of the first order. The “Trombonium,” played by D. R. Freeman, G. R. Dupuy, K. B. McCutcheon, and that “sliding trombone Beck” started off with plenty of pep and brought down the house in applause. This was followed closely by the string octette which, under the direction of Houston White, was perhaps the greatest musical triumph of the evening. The octette was composed of: Violins: Cunningham, Rudge, Wright, and Buchanan; guitars: Phillips, McGeachy, Nesbit, and Bernhardt. To the tune of the old hoe-down of itinerant negro fiddlers, Johnny Curry, “Cop” Johnson, P. D. Miller, and Clyburn, gave the audience a bit of the Southern Highland Fling in the cloggiest of clog dancing. From the role of musical director, Houston White changed to the toreador of Toledo and sang La Paloma to a guitar accompaniment. This number was greeted with great success and was followed by an equally well-executed cornet solo by D. R. Freeman. Madame X, the mysterious unknown, ended the revue in a very artistic Oriental dance. Her dance resembled closely the Egyptian artistry of Ruth St. Denis and touched slightly on the Russian interpretation of Turkish dancing as appears in the Ballet Russe.

“A See-Saw Seance” was the title of the playlet which ended the performance. The manuscript was written by Professor Erwin on a theme showing negro mysticism and spiritualistic fear. “Tubby” Woolfolk, Dave Forgey, Sergeant Cooper, and “Bill Joe” Martin proved an excellent cast. Too much credit cannot be given to Professor Erwin, who so ably directed the entire show and arranged with artistic ability the settings for each act. Houston White is also to be commended for the musical triumphs which were under his supervision, and Al Wilson for his direction of the “See-Saw Seance.” The seating arrangements were directed by Boulware, Mahood, and Nash, and the electrical effects arranged by Mahood and Nash. The management wishes to thank the Ladies’ Sewing Circle of Concord Street for their work on the curtain, and the Telephone Company for the use of their wire. They also want to show their appreciation of Mr. Stiles in helping with the stage decorations, and of Mr. Rogers for his timely aid in costuming.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

THIS YEAR’S ELEVEN
(Continued from page 1)

Virginia, where Washington and Lee sneaked off with a 6 to 0 victory, earned by two field goals. Then came the climax. The Golden Tornado from Georgia Tech blew us to pieces by a 66 to 0 score. With that “you may be down but never out” spirit, the Wildcats jumped on Wake Forest next with all four feet and ripped away a 27 to 7 victory. With blood still in her eyes, the ferocious animal next invaded the capital of Virginia, and crushed the University of Richmond's spider 7 to 0. On the trail for larger game yet, the Wildcats scratched the Citadel Bulldogs in the face, laughed, and romped off with a 27 to 13 victory. The next week they wrung the Gamecocks' neck from the University of South Carolina by a 27 to 0 score and left feathers all over the field. Then came that memorable day, when the Red and Black machine, with every cog in perfect shape, knocked the Tar Baby from over at Chapel Hill out and tore off with a coveted 7 to 0 victory. Playing the last two games under S. I. A. A. rulings with four regulars out, P. C. and Furman each got away with a 7 to 0 victory.

The season’s results:
Davidson 0, N. C. State 23.
Davidson 0, Washington and Lee 6.
Davidson 0, Georgia Tech 66.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 7.
Davidson 7, Richmond 0.
Davidson 27, Citadel 13.
Davidson 27, U. of S. C. 0.
Davidson 7, U. of N. C. 0.
Davidson 0, P. C. of S. C. 7.
Davidson 0, Furman 7.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

FAMOUS EXPLORER
(Continued from page 1)

first time any of them had ever left their native wilds, a feat said to have been the last big thing left in African exploration. On the third, he opened up the High Kasai, made many discoveries in botany, ethnology, and geology, and located the Chikapa diamond fields.which are now producing millions per year. On the fourth, he laid the foundations of the American Congo Company for a New York corporation, and acted as adviser to the International Mining and Forestry Company. Mr. Verner then joined the Panama Canal force, and studied tropical sanitation with General Gorgas, besides editing a large English-Spanish newspaper, making it a vehicle for combating the German propaganda during the war. He also studied scientific and business conditions in Latin America, was the first to advocate direct trade with Latin America from Southern ports, solved the problem of tropical cotton, and contributed many newspaper and magazine articles on those subjects, besides taking part in the business development of Panama. As an African explorer, Mr. Verner stands first in this country in point of seniority and achievements, being ranked only by Sir Harry Johnston, the eminent English explorer. With his added experience in tropical America, he ranks as an authority on tropical development with the foremost in the world. He has made many addresses in America, Europe, Africa, and Latin America, has a good clear voice, and has lately been delivering a series of lectures in the Southwest to large audiences. Mr. Verner’s father and mother married at Davidson College, and he himself married a descendant of Alexander Craighead of Mecklenburg and a member of the Caldwell and Dunlap families of this section of North Carolina, and has four children.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

BOARDING HOUSE MANAGERS FORM CO-OPERATIVE UNION

Believing that in union there is strength, in this instance financial strength especially, the student boarding house managers at a meeting after Chapel Saturday formed and adopted certain resolutions in order that there might be uniformity in the manner in which the different boarding houses are conducted. For the information of the student body they ordered the resolutions to be published as follows:

1. No student will be accepted as a boarder by another manager until his board is paid in full at the house from which he comes.
2. Before changing boarding houses a student must give his manager a week’s notice in advance that he is leaving.
3. No rebate for board will be allowed a student unless he is off Hill for ten consecutive days, and the student must notify his manager in advance that he expects to be absent for this length of time.

—A Merry Christmas and Happy New Year—

BAND CONCERT COMING.

The Davidson College Wildcat Band will give a concert in Shearer Hall, Friday night, December 3, at 7:30 o'clock. The students, faculty and townspeople are cordially invited. No admission will be charged.

THE GARBER-DAVIS Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS

JAN GARBER E. PAGE YARBROUGH Owner and Director Business Manager Headquarters Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N. C.

Say it with Flowers L. A. ELLIOTT SCHOLTZ, the Florist Candies, Fruits, Etc Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

See me for your feeds

Shorty dropped in on New York! Here we are, Gite! Compadres once more in the prime concrete house with the roaring racket and blaring posters and smashing; you'd never believe could be fewer per minute. I figured "Comet City" had been transplanted right up here! It seems like all New Yorkers have adopted Camels as their own personal formula! One thing, after this is the original speed town, it's only when you see 'em pull a package of Camels from their right hand or pocket they dig out their left hand deck. They just waste no time getting a Camel lighted! That's the quit, of the moment! One color, the New York type! Another how far our old stamping ground — rubbing with one town! When I hit Broadway — Camels in each hand, you get the reason why they do turn for Camels. For instance, Doc Marshall will bet his car on Camels for quality in cigarettes and the oil! Bite so gentle, tone never tired, and always so mild, mellow lit, Camels! Camels are free from any unpleasant scent, aftertaste or other odd! Some say, how it's Camels' wonderful, just the finest Domestic, and! And, ALL of them are right! And, here's proof of the pudding — you do, 'em. That Missouri, finish anything on Camelity or little of New anything else! And now it comes to not about the line stuff.