The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
J. S___

Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND

Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE

Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES

Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN

Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL

Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE

Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP

Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS

Y. M.C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL

Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.

Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE

Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
McKEITHAN, J. H.
BITZER, R.
LONG, C. G.
OGDEN, D. H.
COOPER, W. J.
MAUZE, G. W.
ORMAND, A. C.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
MITCHELL, A. M.
SUMMERS, A. C.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
PHILLIPS, J. W.
WOOL, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
MAHOOD, D.

Open Forum

SENSE OF HUMOR.
Our friend of ’22 appeared with the article on “Matters of Regret” in last week's issue. No doubt that most of us agree with him in reference to personal remarks to the opposing players, but who can find fault with the yell given for the whole team. This is only used as a sense of humor and not as a reflection on the team or the college, and every broad-minded man looks at it in this light. If this is to be stopped, why not stop the band from playing, “Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here,” and the students stop singing it. There is no difference; one is just as pleasing to the ear as the other, and the person that objects to one should object to the other. All of us know that when a band of five hundred boys get loose after being in Davidson for six weeks, they forget themselves to a certain extent, but the behavior at the game in Charlotte was exceedingly good, and there is no kick coming. Of course, it is good to remind us of our faults, but the fellow that reminds us must practice what he preaches. If the sentiment of the students is to cut this yell out, then cut it out, and along with it cut out our old favorite song. Then what will be used when we are down but to sit up and look like a bunch of sticks.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room.

A MODERN HOMER.
When Homer smote his bloomin’ lyre
He smote his way to fame;
But many million simple souls
Have never heard his name.
When Babe Ruth smites the bloomin’ ball,
And smites it o’er the fence,
His homer makes the Grecian one
Resemble thirty cents.
—Chicago Tribune.

The Senior class of Howard College has begun a movement for the adoption of a standard ring to be worn by all graduates of the institution. The trustees of Howard favor the removal of the college from its present location to Woodlawn, and are putting on a campaign for a fund of $500,000 for this purpose—From The Howard Crimson.

C. J. MATTHEWS
Business Manager

Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
G. H. LONG
Circulation Manager

WOOL
Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

SUBSTITUTE FOR LATIN VERSE.
Boyibus kissibus sweeti girlorum

EDITORIAL
The Spider’s web was a little bit stronger than we anticipated, as the Wildcats were able to puncture it only once. This will do for the first time, though.

If the proposed plan to run individual pictures of the Freshmen and Sophomores is carried through, no doubt some chance reader of the 1921 Annual will think that it is an illustrated catalog of—, well, we will not say what.

It seems as if we will not get a half holiday for the Citadel game. Let’s go anyhow by having a special train leave here after all classes are over. We owe this much to the team.

Have you begun to put into practice some of those principles of real Christian manhood as outlined by Dr. Weatherford?

HANDS OFF, PLEASE.
Attention has already been called to the fact that the Staff is very sorry some of the students take it upon themselves to appropriate their copies of The Davidsonian before the Circulation Manager is ready to dispose of the same, yet we do not think it amiss to put this in writing. As already stated, we are glad that the boys are so anxious to receive their paper, but at the same time we would remind them that it is an inconvenience to us as well as a violation of the United States Government postal regulations. These papers are handled through the mails, and the postal authorities absolutely will not stand for any meddling of this nature. Just enough copies are ordered each week to cover the student body and subscription list needs, and any promiscuous taking of the papers will naturally result in the forcing of someone to go without his issue. Our subscription list must be protected, hence they come first and any shortage will fall upon the students. We are sure that a little thoughtlessness was the cause of this incident, as we do not believe that any Davidson man wants to inconvenience a fellow student. In the future, men, we ask that you kindly give the Circulation Manager time to get the paper out. He is doing his best although handicapped by the fact that the addressograph plates have not been received, and this necessitates that you co-operate with him by being patient.

WE ARE HARD PUT.
At the beginning of this session certain plans were elaborated by which it was shown that our publication was to be a ten-page paper, but as already observed, no doubt, this program was only adhered to for the first two issues. Perhaps attention should have been called to this long ago, yet an optimistic view of hoping to attain the goal has caused us to refrain from doing so. The reason is simply the lack of funds sufficient to carry through without a heavy loss a ten-page issue. The cost of printing has advanced 30 percent over last year, and this advance coupled with the additional cost of the extra two pages has made it absolutely impossible to get out more than eight pages. We regret this very much as two more pages of live news could easily be filled each week.

Another effect of the increased number of ads we need to meet the expense of printing is to be seen in the number of ads we are compelled to run. The entire cost of our publication practically has to be met by the revenues derived from advertising. The income from the Blanket fee and subscriptions is negligible, thus in order not to edit the Paper on a losing basis we are forced to run about 40 percent advertising matter. All other college publications have been compelled to resort to even a higher increase in their advertising, so we trust that our position in this matter will be readily understood and appreciated.

In order to overcome the lack of space to some extent the Staff, after careful consideration of the matter, has decided to change the size of the type, using a smaller print. By taking advantage of this we...will be able to increase the amount of news by ten per cent at least. Uncontrollable circumstances have forced these changes upon us, and we trust that our readers will bear with us in such matters. You may rest assured that the Staff is bending every effort to make up in quality what is lost in quantity, and in this way to maintain and even better the standard of “The Livest Wire on the Hill.”

SENIOR SPEAKING

Social life at Davidson, as little as there is of it, must now be more curtailed by the elimination of Senior Speaking. We are not in favor of trying to revive this out-of-date function. Instead, we want something that will appeal both to the students and the general public as much as the speakings were said to do in the years gone by long before our day. Now we suggest that a movement already on foot to have a minstrel given by the Senior class (its personnel composed entirely of Seniors), be encouraged as much as possible. The plans, roughly speaking, are: That we set apart two nights with the preceding days, the first night to be a stunt night in athletics, including jiu-jitsu, and this would be a competition between the three lower classes for prizes. To keep this first night from being too monotonous, the band and Glee club or both could give a concert. On the second night, the Senior class could present the minstrel. But of course, there could be several variations of this schedule to suit the tastes of the various Senior classes. For instance, the first day might be taken as a class day in athletics, as we already have in the spring, but if we put these plans into operation, we could have the affair come off at about the time Senior Speaking came formerly, thus giving us two class days in athletics, one in the fall and the other in the spring. On the second afternoon, there might be an interclass baseball or football game. The initial start won't be so hard, for Professor Erwin has had a great deal of experience along these lines and has agreed to take charge of the minstrel, provided the faculty gives permission to stage such an affair. But surely the faculty would not deny us this since they have removed a social function and have provided no substitute, and besides, it would be under faculty supervision and the faculty could eliminate any objectionable features. We could give the money taken in to the Y. M.C. A. for the publication of the Handbook each year, thus providing the college with a first-class handbook. So it is up to the class of ’21 to get behind this project and make it one big success, thus setting a precedent for an annual affair. Besides this, the class of ‘21 would be making a distinct contribution to the life of the campus. Go to it, Seniors, we are all behind you.

Secretary.

Miss Mary Rosebro, Miss Carter, and Mrs. C. S. Brown came over from Cleveland, N. C., for Saturday's game. Mrs. Brown is the mother of C.K. Brown, president of the Cox-Roosevelt Club. C. K. and E. H. Brown returned with the party to Cleveland for a weekend visit. M. D. Field, who received an injury as a result of Saturday's football game, is reported as getting along nicely.

You smoke a WDC more than an ordinary pipe because it’s a sweet, mellow smoke. Pipe connoisseurs know what a real smoke is. Follow the old pipe rack. Smoke a cool one every time. Then you'll know what a real smoke is. Any good dealer will furnish you with several select shapes.

WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

LOOKING BACKWARD. GLIMPSES OF DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Football. “The Yellow Jackets have to fight hard to win. Superior weight of Tech team tells in third quarter. Score: 21-7. Black scored the touchdown and Grey kicked goal for the Red and Black. For Davidson, the punting of C. Walker, the line plunging of Laird, Black, and Keesler were the features.” “At a meeting of the ‘wearers of the D,’ held in the drawing room of the squad's private car, while en route to Atlanta to meet Georgia Tech, C. L. Walker was elected captain of the 1915-16 eleven to succeed “Big” McKinnon, who failed to return to college.”

Tennis. “The doubles of the annual tennis tournament have been completed. Finley and Finley, the expected champions, were defeated by Barnett and Kennedy.”

Evangelistic Campaign. “The fall evangelistic campaign was conducted by Dr. Chapman and Mr. Alexander. Its success was phenomenal, largely due to the extensive preparation and to the emphasis placed on private interviews.”

MEN WANTED: Men who are not for sale. Men who are honest to the core. Men who know their message and tell it. Men who know their duty and do it. Men who know their place and fill it. Men who will never swagger or flinch. Men too large for certain limits and too strong for sectarian bands. Men whose consciences are as steady as the needle to the pole. Men who are not too lazy to work, and too proud to be poor. Men who will stand for the right though the heavens totter and the earth reels. Men who can tell the truth, and look the world and the devil right in the eye. Men who will condemn wrong in friend or foe—in themselves as well as others. Men who can have courage without whistling for it, and joy without shouting for it. Men through whom the current of everlasting life runs still, and deep, and strong. These are men that achieve something worth while and accomplish the grandest and noblest purposes of life.

DO YOU WANT A GOOD 1921 QUIPS AND CRANKS?

We'll say we do. But— We need the help of the entire student body. We need: Comic Sketches Comic Snapshots Bushes on any of the boys Funny Short Stories One-Act Tragedies (?) Parodies on Poems ANYTHING SNAPPY. Give us your help by handing something in. It is your duty. Shall we have a good Annual? It’s up to YOU! See “Bobbie” Long, No. 2 Rumple.