6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 15, 1928.

THIS IS THE RAW MATERIAL FROM WHICH WILL

“The Christian College is the manufactory which takes the finest raw material the Church stream of intelligent faith, trained power and

Davidson’s Needs Are Manifold

MENTION THE DAVIDSONIAN

College Cannot Meet Present Demands--- Equipment and Endowment Must be Greatly Increased

Dr. Martin Sums Up Most Apparent Needs

Davidson's needs may be summed up in one set of figures—$2,000,000. Two million dollars is a large sum of money, but not too large to invest in a college of the age of Davidson with her history of high achievement in thorough work and development of Christian character. But just now we are striving to secure as a minimum the first quarter of this sum whereby we may equip the college in buildings and men to adequately train the number of students we now have. With the high cost of everything, it is seriously to be doubted if this can be entirely done for half a million dollars, but we will be able to do a great deal better work even if we only get so much.

Just what it is proposed to use the half million for will give some idea of our immediate and pressing needs. In buildings, we must have a new dormitory to house a hundred students to relieve the present congestion in our rooming quarters. We must overhaul completely the big Chambers building, which was built about 1856 and has had but little done to it since. Floors, walls, woodwork, all need renewing, and steam heat must be installed. Along with these must come a new and enlarged Central Heating Plant. The dormitory will cost from $75,000 to $100,000, Chambers will need at least $50,000 and the Central Heating Plant will cost not less than $25,000.

A new laboratory building costing $50,000 to $75,000, or, if this is impossible, we should at least enlarge and work over the old Morrison Memorial Hall for such purposes. The teaching staff should be greatly increased so smaller sections may be taught, more individual work done with the students and new courses offered. Chief among these and most immediately pressing are the following:

- A Professor of Biology to give his whole time to this department.
- A Professor of Education and Psychology.
- A Professor of Geology and Mineralogy.
- An Associate Professor of English.
- Additional assistance in Chemistry, Physics and Bible.
- A Professor of Spanish.

By some rearrangement of the work of other professors, we will then be able to offer an increased number of courses in the subjects mentioned above as well as in History, Economics, Political Science and French.

The Chair of Bible, now so ably filled by Dr. Sentelle, has been endowed by the children of Mr. J. W. Cannon, of Concord, N. C., as has been the new Chair of Education by Mr. C. E. Graham, of Greenville, S.C. The General Education Board of New York has promised a hundred thousand, and the Alumni Chair of English is well started with $10,000—$5,000 each by Messrs. R. M. Miller, Jr. and James W. Pharr, of Charlotte, N. C., the balance of $40,000 must be raised by the alumni.

To succeed we must have more large gifts. The Dormitory, Heating Plant, two or three more Professorships and an Administration foundation (of $75,000) should be given by individuals, families, churches or communities. Two other funds are greatly needed, one of $50,000 for the erection of additional homes for the professors, and one of $100,000 to ensure proper increase of salaries toall salaried workers. In addition, we need a fund of one to two hundred thousand dollars, the income of which shall assist needy students. A Laundry is essential and we shall certainly work it in somewhere at a cost of probably 10 to 15 thousand dollars. The Swimming Pool, too, should be had, and will cost some $15,000 at least. All of this will cost probably nearer three-quarters of a million dollars, but certainly we should have as much above half a million as possible in the next two years. Great sums, you say, but for a great college and a great cause. The alumni, especially outside of North Carolina, should give mainly to the Alumni Chair. Some of you should give $10,000 and insure it. All should now make every sacrifice for Alma Mater, and make her a “Bigger and a Better Davidson.”

HOME RULE FOR IRELAND.

Lloyd George, in the House of Commons, December 22, gave an outline of a plan for home rule for Ireland that seems to meet the approval of fair-minded friends of Ireland and of Great Britain. He says that any attempt at secession would be resisted as firmly as the United States resisted the secession of the Southern States in our Civil War. This is reasonable. Great Britain would go a long way in the direction of national suicide if she were to permit Ireland to establish an independent government. This fact was demonstrated by what took place in the attempts of Germany to use Irish rebels to fight Great Britain in the recent world war. Lloyd George’s plan provides for an imperial government, but would grant the Irish people home rule with two parliaments. There is no reason why Ireland should not have two parliaments, just as different States in our own Federal Government have 48 different legislatures. The proposed plan would establish one parliament in the North and another in the South of Ireland; the two could establish whatsoever unity they desired. Each of the two parliaments would have taxation powers equivalent to those of the State legislatures of the United States. The income tax and the excess profits and supertaxes would be levied imperially. The Irish parliaments would control all local matters and all machinery for the maintenance of law and order except the higher judiciary and the army and navy. The custom and excise services would be retained by the imperial parliament, but when Ireland was united it would be open to the imperial parliament to consider whether united Ireland would have control of the customs. This plan differs from all other plans that have been proposed and we can see no good reason why any one should object to it. Every good reason for home rule is just as potent for two parliaments as for one. Great Britain cannot and should not permit Ireland to set up an independent government, but it can and should give to the people of Ireland what the United States gives to each State in the Union—Banner.

Conceit may puff up a man, but never prop him up—Ruskin.

WHEN WRITING ADVERTISERS

TAILORS
DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
ALTERING

MURRAY COMPANY
In front of Western Union Telegraph Co.
31 S. TRYON ST.
Phone 429 and a man will come over with the latest styles and patterns for college men on the market. We make a specialty of young men’s garments.

L. B. LONG
HEAVY AND FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Strong Bank Resources $4,000,000.00
Solicits your business,
This Commercial Banking, Savings, Trust
Independence Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.