a | hn i t > 6 as THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920. | RICHMOND UNIVERSITY NEXT OPPONENT On the Gridiron | OF WILDCATS 4 eo Well, the Baptists were ducked right last Saturday. And didn’t their line hold fine—(Almost as fine as tissue paper.) The Old Dominion will again be invaded by Davidson next Saturday. That Wildcat machine was certainly working out strong. And did you notice the fight that they went into the fray with? A kickoff plus 8 minutes equals a touchdown. We've got a start now. Let that credit side of the ledger grow. On to Richmond! One good swipe of the Wildcat’s paw and—goodbye Spiderweb. This is our first encounter with the clan from up on the Muddy James River and no doubt the Spiders have a neat web woven for us.

Citadel. The Cadets drew another goose-egg. V.M.I. opened up and bowled them over by a 30 to 0 count. The lads from Citadel must have put up a good fight though, because V.M.I. has one everlasting War Horse of a team this year.

U. of S.C. Coach Metzger’s pig-skin chasers lost to the Tar Heels by a lone touchdown. The Palmetto State lads had hard luck, twice coming within the 10-yard line only to lose the ball on downs. They put up a plucky fight and were especially strong on the defense.

U. of N.C. The Tar Babies failed to develop drive enough to put across over one tally against South Carolina. Hanby saved the day by grabbing up a blocked punt and running 30 yards for a touchdown. The Rah-Rah lads got away to a flying start, carrying the ball down to the 15-yard line, but here they failed to produce drive enough to carry on.

Furman. Coach Laval’s boys are still putting up the same gilt-edge performance they began the year with. The best the University of Georgia could do was to score a lone touchdown. Only 7 first downs were made, four by Furman and three by Georgia. The play was in the center of the field until the last few minutes. Two deceptive passes enabled the Crackers to cross the coveted chalk line.

N.C. State sacrificed the good name she made by her defeat of Navy, by not presenting her strongest line-up against Penn State last week. Coach Fetzer’s lads took a 41 to 0 drubbing, but saved Johnson, Parks, and Faucette from possible injuries, so that they would be in prime shape to seek revenge on University of N.C. this week. Not a single first down was made by N.C. State.

Trinity. Followers of the gridiron game in Carolina and the South are interested and pleased to see the entrance of Trinity College into football circles again. The Methodists have been out of the game for 26 years and inaugurated their re-entrance by a 20 to 6 victory over Guilford. Among the spectators were three of the 1891 Trinity eleven which carried off the championship honors of the South. Here’s wishing them luck.

Watch’® One good by a lone! opponents are reported to be in excellent shape, having had fairly easy games so far. A corking good football game is slated for the fans in the Virginia Capitol. The Virginians have been successful in their first three games. Hampden-Sidney lost to them Saturday, and George Washington University suffered the same fate the week before. In view of these victories and the general good reports of the team, Davidson is expecting a tough battle before trimming them. Information concerning the style of play and the individual qualities of their players is scarce in these parts. Beyond the fact that the squad is quite heavy enough to make impressive scores, very little is known. 

Wake Forest. With the exception of Cassell, the opponents are reported to be in excellent shape, having had fairly easy games so far. A corking good football game is slated for the fans in the Virginia Capitol. The Virginians have been successful in their first three games. Hampden-Sidney lost to them Saturday, and George Washington University suffered the same fate the week before. In view of these victories and the general good reports of the team, Davidson is expecting a tough battle before trimming them. Information concerning the style of play and the individual qualities of their players is scarce in these parts. Beyond the fact that the squad is quite heavy enough to make impressive scores, very little is known.

Davidson should have gained a little advantage from the contest with the Baptists. Although the fight was strenuous and several men on both teams were laid out temporarily, none were seriously hurt; so Davidson will have a strong line-up. Coupled with the natural Wildcat fight, the ability of those plunging demons of last Saturday and a combination of results that is hard to beat.

This is the first encounter between the two institutions. No back record stands to be broken, but a win for the first year will be most desirable for both contestants. Davidson coaches are looking for unusually stiff opposition from Richmond.

CLASS BASKETBALL TO BEGIN IN NOVEMBER The annual class basketball series promises to be a very hard-fought and peppy contest this year. These games will probably be played the last three weeks of November in anticipation of Varsity practice, which begins the first of December. Several men are already in these!and speedy’: Their representative in Charlotte, tage by witnessing our game against Wildcats have no injuries from the practice, all material and that the half has not been told. However, this remains to be seen and everyone is looking forward to a very successful series of class games.

SCRUBS TO PLAY N. C. STATE FRESHMEN.
Other Games in Prospect for Coach Grey’s Second Strong Men.

“After long and untiring efforts,” as they say, the assistant managers of football have arranged a game for the scrubs with the N. C. State freshmen, to be played at the Sand Hill Fair, November 18. This is to be one of the big events of the season at this resort and should be a great trip for the scrubs. Negotiations are under way with other colleges of the Carolinas and the assistant managers say that the scrubs will very probably enjoy one or two more trips. Arrangements are also being made for a good game on the “Hill.” The scrubs have done and are doing good work and have earned everything that is coming to them. They are looking to the student body for the same support the Varsity is getting, for they have made the Varsity possible. Go to it, Scrubs!

THE DAVIDSON SPECIAL.
The old saying you can’t keep a good man down was certainly put into realization Saturday. Four hundred and seventy-five of the student body boarded the Winston-Salem southbound, alias, the Davidson-Charlotte “catch as you can" railroad with great expectation. Red and Black was around with bells on and that old Davidson spirit commonly known as pep was certainly displayed. Rushing for the extra coaches like Belgian Refugees capacity and then some more. Pulling out of the station like No. 38 going North frequent shrieks of fire, water and smoke coupled with numerous yells certainly showed the rural populace and travelers along the road that Davidson was out to do damage or else bust. Arriving in Charlotte ten minutes behind schedule time only tended to arouse pep and it certainly proved its worth. Everybody piled out and beat it uptown to get a strip of red and black ribbon. On the return trip the “Pullgians” were opened for occupation at ten-forty p.m. and were no sooner opened than occupied. At eleven o'clock, they cleared the dock and with fifteen rahs for the Queen City bade farewell to Charlotte and its populace. Although tired and worn-out the old spirit that always goes wherever Davidson does still prevailed. Conversation took the form of Keith’s Vaudeville, the football game, and the dance. This soon wore off though and gave way to sleep in all its forms; which was only broken up by the big bass voice of the brakeman, announcing the approach to Davidson. Everybody vacated the Special in short order and hurried to their respective rooms to resume their dreams of Davidson’s stellar football team and “what makes them so wild.”

The Civic Club and Parent-Teacher Association gave a reception Tuesday evening at the Club Hall in honor of the teachers of the graded school. The officers of the club, teachers and school board formed the receiving line.

The Advertisers in This Paper Are Responsible for Four-Fifths of its Expenses. PATRONIZE Them.

Thursday, Friday and Saturday, October 21, 22 and 23
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Paul F. Cace
K ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
In Curious Novelties
CLIFFORD NELSON and MARIE BAILEY
In “Movie Frolic”
DAN SHERMAN, MABEL DE FOREST & CO.
In “The Jazz Circus”
MADELINE DE PAGE and YORKOFF SISTERS
A Classical Trio in “Music and Song”
EQUILLI BROTHERS
Masters of Equilibrism