8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

Save those old shoes made

With a large attendance at the initial meeting, and all present full of interest and zeal, great things are in store for those who are interested in the Phi Society. The beginning last Saturday night gives promise of one of the most successful years in the Society’s history. For with all officers on hand and on the job and anxious to serve the society, there is an undeniable confidence in her achievements this school year. The Saturday night meeting was made up of assignments of committees, and plans were discussed for the year and many attractive features are in store for the year. The next meeting will be given over to the initiation of new men, so that the regular program will be dispensed with. During the week, a complete program will be posted on the society bulletin board and all members will please take notice.

See Us
For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly,

And for live meetings and for real work look to the Philanthropic Society.

Eumenean Society.

The Eumenean Literary Society faces one of the brightest years in its history, judging from the record of last year and from the interest shown by the old members. With the largest personnel known, and with an abundance of material from the Freshman class, prospects are indeed bright for the society. To the old men, it accords a hearty welcome back into the halls of the society. To the new men, it extends a cordial invitation to join our number, to work with us, and receive the benefits that accompany literary society work.

LIBRARY NEWS.

The library committee announces that about 26,700 volumes are lining the shelves waiting to prove useful to the reader. Among this number are found books for a great many fields of research, classics, fine arts, language, magazines, debating material, and a great many popular novels. Many books will be listed and reviewed at a later date. One important clause in the library rules has been changed. Men having books used by classes and allowed out until 12 noon on the next day will be charged 25 cents per day for tardiness in returning the books. In all other cases, the regular fee of 5 cents for each day late will hold. Men, use our library. It is a good one.

THREE NEW FACES SEEN IN FACULTY.

Jetton Drug Co.

Would You Accept a Favor?

We are representatives for the best firms in: Athletic Supplies, All kinds of Felt Goods, College Belts, Stationery, Clothing, Haberdashery, Victor Records, Etc.

The addition of three new professors to the Davidson faculty is an event which means much to the college. These new men are Dr. Frazier Hood, Dr. Edwin J. Erwin, and Dr. E. A. Byers. The institution could hardly have made a better choice, for all these professors are men who are fully prepared to instruct in their respective subjects. Dr. Erwin comes as second professor of German, while Dr. Hood takes the chair of Psychology. Undoubtedly, each of these instructors will contribute significantly to the academic environment.Davidson students. Ponzi Out-classed. The whole country admires Ponzi’s financial ability and calls him a genius. His was a fine get-rich-quick scheme but not to be compared to that of our own Abe, Ike, and Issy. The Associated Press has sure missed a fine scoop. Here's where the Davidsonian put one over on them.

The Macamac Company
At the Powerhouse
New by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.

LITERARY SOCIETIES BEGIN NEW YEAR’S WORK.
Local agent Freshmen to be Initiated Next D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts Saturday Night. Philanthropic Society Professor of English; Dr. Byers will direct the courses in Spanish and instructors will receive a warm welcome.

CAMPUSSISMS.
The old campus is as green as ever and the same can be said of the Fresh. Mr. G. R. Dupree of Red Springs visited his old alma mater last week for the purpose of entering his son in the freshman class. Jack Black and Robson '19 have been at work on Sprunt Field lately helping Coach Grey whip the Wildcats into shape. Miss Grace James, a niece of Dr. Douglass, has returned to Winthrop. Where, Oh, where were the parades? Once again the ladies “ring-up:” Two smiling “co-eds” are here. They are Miss Wilma F. Cashion and Miss Annie Caldwell; and come from the village of Cornelius. Miss Wilma is a sister of E. G. Cashion, '22. Mr. Jackson says “they” are cottages; the “Hill” has dubbed them “Barracks.” Whatever might be their real name—those new dormitories are pretty nifty. O. C. Williamson '18 of Union Seminary is on the Hill for a few days. “Just to look around,” says he. “Sec” Lacy has begun training for the 1921 Track Squad. It is moved and seconded that there be no drilling on the front campus.

THE PHOTO BUGS
KODAK
THE MACAMAC CO. REPRESENTATIVES
At the Powerhouse

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel
Charlotte, N. C.

October Mid-Month Columbia Records NOW ON SALE HERE
Write us for new record list, and come in and hear your favorite music. Mail orders shipped same day order is received.

W. I. McCoy & Co.
The Columbia Store
209-211 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano
Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request.
Tuning, Repairing, Moving
CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
ESTABLISHED
M. D. MANNING, Manager
210 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

OUR NEW HOME
DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent

SAVE YOUR HAIR!
Tono Scalpa stops hair from coming out by removing the cause—the dangerous dandruff germ. We absolutely guarantee that Tono Scalpa will remove every trace of dandruff from your head and relieve itching of the scalp, or your money will be refunded. TONO SCALPA SCALP TONIC. Tono Scalpa puts your scalp in a healthy condition thereby promoting growth of soft, radiant, luxuriant hair. Give Tono Scalpa a trial. You will be delighted with the results.