LIFE INSURANCE-- A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary for real success in life insurance salesmanship.

Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

Christian Activities

There is very little danger in this though, for fast horses and motor vehicles are practically unknown. The Chinese are molded and shown by the leaders, was very instructive. That evening after a delightful supper and social hour at the Church, the evening program was enjoyed. There were two numbers on the program. First, a set of stereopticon slides which served to stimulate the interest of the Endeavorers in, not only the strengthening of their own societies, but the spreading of the movement over the entire world. The second number was an address by Mr. Gates on “Service as a Doorway to Opportunity.”

Next Sunday afternoon the Endeavorers are to have a missionary presentation. Mr. W. M. Cumming, of Wilmington, father of “Bill” Cumming of the class of 1918, through his interest in Christian Endeavor and in missions, has given the local society fifty dollars to be given for equipment in one of the seven countries in which the Southern Presbyterian Church does mission work. The claims of these countries will be presented by seven Endeavorers, using a touch of costume. Christian Endeavor president, Frank Toney, will preside as Uncle Sam. The society will then vote on which country is to get the fifty dollars. The college students and the townspeople are cordially invited to be present.

The men screamed with horror. For behind the door they saw something that robbed them of speech, a nameless terror that chilled their blood. What was it? Well, that would be telling. It’s all in the picture. “Behind the Door” is the title. Maybe you read it in Collier’s Weekly. Gouverneur Morris wrote it. If you did, you'll admit that it was some story. Strong, dramatic, unusual, exciting. Thomas H. Ince has produced it as a Paramount-Artcraft Picture with Hobart Bosworth starring. Bosworth of “The Sea Wolf” and other masterful pictures. “Behind the Door” is a story of the sea. Bosworth is the captain of the ship. It will keep you on the edge of your seat during the entire showing. And you'll be as surprised as anyone at the amazing finish. Irvin Willat, who directed that thriller of thrillers, “The Grim Game,” directed “Behind the Door.” In the cast are Jane Novak, Wallace Beery, James Gordon, Dick Wain, and other Ince favorites. It’s a big picture; one you don’t want to miss at the gym Thursday night.

M. D. MANNING, Manager
218 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

ROBERT E. MELL, OF ROCK HILL, S. C., TO BE HERE NEXT SUNDAYWho fails to be present at the “Y” Vesper services Sunday night will miss a treat. After several attempts Mr. Robert E. Mell, Community Y. M. C. A. Secretary of Rock Hill, S. C., has been secured to make an address to the Davidson students. That he will have a forceful and direct message to impart is quite certain, for Mr. Mell is a believer in the strong, virile type of Christian manhood, and what this means to any young college man looking out upon the unknown trials and temptations of his future life. The great work that the coming speaker is doing in Rock Hill among the boys of that town speaks better than words that Mr. Mell is not just a talker, but a live, wide-awake Christian who makes things hustle. It is impossible for one to be in his presence without catching some of his overflowing enthusiasm that is so essential to a successful Christian worker. Mr. Mell is a graduate of Georgia Tech and during his stay at that institution served an apprenticeship on the Golden Tornado as a member of the scrub team. The fact that he could stand the awful pounding of that famous machine and still come out of the fray alive is evidence that he has got that quality that goes to make the college man’s ideal of a good sport. The speaker will be remembered by many of the present student body as the song leader in the Fall Evangelistic services of last Fall, and his part in the singing Sunday night will be an added feature to the service. Anyone who wants to hear and get something worthwhile for nothing cannot afford to miss Mr. Mell.

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
D. W. ROBERTS, Assistant Cashier

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

Dr. A. A. McFadyen, ‘99, a medical missionary to China, spoke before the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening concerning several phases of the work in which he is now engaged. After reading from the Bible a short description of the New Jerusalem, he showed how this appealed to the Chinese mind. It is a very common thing in Oriental countries to see the little children playing in the streets, for the houses are dark, and the work of the women must be done in the narrow courtyards, hence the street is practically the only place for the children to play.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, write to the REGISTRAR.

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

“IT PAYS FIVE WAYS”
Our Multiple Protection Policy Pays for Accident, Sickness, Total and Permanent Disability, Old Age, Death. Any disability one day or more---no limit. Full death benefits in addition---double for accidental death. Rates reasonable.
G. W. PATTERSON, Gen’l Agt.
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company
1016-15 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.
Openings for Live men as agents

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning service makes distance prints represent the like rapid process. No extra charge for Glossy Finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO.,
Atlanta, Georgia

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

FOR GLEE CLUB
The Glee Club has settled down to hard work in order to prepare for the trip which it is to make about the first of February. Very few of the dates have been definitely set as yet, but the manager states that programs will probably be given at Rock Hill, Spartanburg, and Greenville of South Carolina, and at Atlanta and Gainesville of Georgia. The trip will cover a period of a week or ten days. The large number of fifty or sixty who first responded have been cut down to thirty and it will be no small job to pick the best twenty from these to make the trip.

Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates. Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you got?
W. J. RODDY & CO., Managers
J.P. QUARLES, Manager

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.