THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 25, 1920.

THE QUEEN WILL BE SELECTED SATURDAY
Field Day Winner Has This Honor.

Who will be the Queen of Love and Beauty? Who will be the victorious knight to select her? Yes, we
are going to have a tournament, and a more daring and exciting one was never seen in the early ages.
What’s more, gentlemen, there are going to be plenty of “Queens” for the victorious knight to pick the honored queen,
and also there will be enough left for the vanquished heroes. Saturday, with Queens Col-

From Top to Bottom:

DAVIDSON BATTALION ACCEPTS CHALLENGE FROM WOFFORD
R. O. T. C. to Hold Gallery Contest With Methodist Institution.

Davidson is soon to enter an inter-collegiate contest of a nature which for her at least is a decided innovation.
At the battalion formation on Tuesday of last week, Major Hall read a letter from the commandant of the R.
O. T. C. unit at Wofford, challenging the Davidson cadets to a gallery match. By an almost unanimous vote it
was decided to accept this challenge, and the preliminary contests for the selection of D. C.’s riflemen are to begin
at once. The rules that Wofford proposes are as follows: (1) Each team shall consist of 18 men; (2) each
man shall fire two shots from each position, rapid and slow fire; (3) the ranges shall be 50 and 75
yards, the rifle U. S. twenty-two calibre, model 1903 gallery rifle; (4) the target shall be the regulation 50 yard
American Rifle Association target. The members of the teams will fire independently and the targets and scores will be mailed
to the district headquarters in Charleston to be compared. Any time after April 5 will be acceptable to Wofford.

As a further incentive to active endeavor, Captain Mueller announced that each afternoon’s firing squad would receive credit for an
extra drill period. He hopes that every member of the R. O. T. C. will go out to “win for
the honor of Old Davidson,” and help put the college’s name on the distinguished list.

HUNTERSVILLE TEAM SWAMPED BY COACH HENGEVELD’S CHARGES

Richards to Ratchford to McArn was the route of the sensation of the Huntersville-Davidson game of Monday afternoon, and that
sensation came in the form of a triple play. That is unless piling up the greatest string of errors ever
witnessed in these parts is considered a sensation. The visiting aggregation certainly did the featuring if the latter proposition be
true. Stage fright, field fright or whatever you call it, surely wrought wreckage in the camp of the high-schoolers. The
final score, like the number of errors, is unknown. The official tabulator ceased operations in the early stages of the
contest with Coach Hengeveld’s proteges dragging a 20 to 0 score after them. Nobly aided by the visitors’ outfielders, some
half-dozen of the collegians connected for four-sack smacks. Currie, Miley, Sorrels, Justice and Streibich occupied the mound in the foregoing
order. Wrenn and Cop Johnson did the receiving, with Barnette and Dug McArn making the put-outs at first. Ratchford and
the two Cassells completed the infield. Richards, Crawford and Shepherd took care of the flies in the suburban regions. Immediately
after Richards’ homer in the first the right fielder of Huntersville could not be induced to roam any nearer the
plate than the outside rim of the track somewhere in the vicinity of Concord. The fence which encloses Sprunt field
prevented a number of circuit clouts by the more enterprising of the local batters.

A Better Davidson is Our Goal.

GOLF TOURNAMENT WELL UNDER WAY—GAME SOON WITH GASTONIA

Davidson Golf club’s annual spring tournament is well under way. It is being played every afternoon of this week, and
a great deal of interest is being taken init by the faculty members and students. A definite prize has been
set, four in all, giving the greatest amount of chances for honors. The entrance fee is one ball, the winner
taking 50 per cent and the next three being divided accordingly. Another outcome of this tournament will be the selection
of the team to play various clubs round about, the first game with Gastonia County Club here on April 8.
There will be from four to six men, a good chance for all. Get interested, fellows, and give it a
try. Get information at No. 7 Georgia.

As visitors, there will be staged one of the greatest track meets recorded in the annals of the cinder path.
The highest individual point getter will pick the queen. The prospects are exceptionally good this year. Murray, Brice, and Denniston
are showing up well in the dashes. Sprunt, Covington, Russell, and Dick are rounding into form. For the hurdles, Dick,
Davis, and McCaskill are making fast time. In the field sports, Murray is showing up to good advantage on the
broad jump; Green and McCaskill are stepping over the bar at the highest notch thus far, while Garrett and Carr
are fighting it out between themselves for the pole vaulting job. In the weights, McLeod and Roberts are trying to
beat the present college record. The men to make the U. of S. C. trip and also participate in the
Trinity meet, which will be held on the “hill” April 14, will be picked Saturday. Everybody come out and root
for your class. They will need it, for never has such a battle been promised before.

GOLF BECOMING MORE POPULAR AT DAVIDSON

A visitor to the Davidson golf course would immediately be impressed with the fact that the Red and Black Athletic
celebrities are not confined to the student body alone. Could he but witness the contortions, twists, and swings indulged in
frequently by some of our traditionally dignified faculty members, and, least to say, capped by the customary ejaculatory sequence to
the fundamental processes of the game, he would at once perceive that the game of golf is no less amusing
than interesting. Is not the fact that so many members of the faculty take an interest in golf sufficient testimony
that it is worthwhile? Should not more of our students striving to emulate their happy example give the game their
endorsement and support, thereby making it one of the most lively sports on the hill? The Golf club is open
to all, and needs new members. The cost is negligible and every bit of money received is placed in the
advancement of the club itself. The club sincerely invites all students to come out on the course and try the
game. Get into the tournament this week, and if not a player, back it up with your presence during the
afternoons, and let’s all make the club a greater asset to the college.

Mecklenburg Chero-Cola Company
ARCH. B. TAYLOR, ’11, Manager

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N.C.
WRITES INSURANCE
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Sheet Music, Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music
F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

PROGRAM
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 25, 26, 27

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

F. PAUL RAHN and VALERIE BECK
In “A Bouquet from Woodland”

THE FLORIDA FOUR
Vocal and Instrumental Novelty

WM. H. ARMSTRONG and COMPANY
Presenting “The Ten Thousand Dollar Ankle”

BILLY ROGERS
Making You Smile

GABBY BROTHERS and CLARK
Those Talkative Chaps
