THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1920.

Bob Miles, our “Y” secretary last year, received a warm welcome here during his short visit last week. He stayed
over Saturday morning and then went to the game in Charlotte.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

HERE AND THERE WITH THE ALUMNI

J. L. Fowle, ‘18, a member of the Senior class at Union Seminary, is here this week conducting the singing
at the Y. M. C. A. meetings. “Jamie” has a fine voice and his solos are greatly appreciated.

James Carson, ‘16, is selling White trucks in this territory, having Charlotte as headquarters.

Joe Crayton, of Charlotte, spent a few hours on the hill last week.

Dwight Chalmers, ‘20, was up for a short stay Friday night. He is now with the Carolina Automobile Supply Co.

M. R. Watt, ex-'20, and R. P. Richardson, ‘18, of Reidsville, spent Sunday on the “hill.” “Rich” is in the
tobacco business with his father at Reidsville.

Frank Hall, ‘20, spent Sunday and Monday here. Frank is teaching mathematics at Mitchell College, Statesville, N.C.

The War Department has awarded the distinguished service cross posthumously to Lieut. John Cannon Paisley, in October, 1920. The citation
follows: “John Cannon Paisley, First Lieutenant Seventh Infantry, Third Division, For extraordinary heroism in action in Belleau Woods, France, June
21, 1918. While leading his platoon against a machine gun nest Lieutenant Paisley encountered several enemy spies, who attempted to
give him orders and confuse his men. He killed the officer in charge of several of the men and then
continued in the attack. Later in the day he was hit by a 37 millimeter shell and instantly killed.”

Prof. John Everett Brady, of the faculty of Smith College, at Northampton, Mass., is one of the editors of Smith
College Classical Studies, Volume 1 of which has been issued.

Shelby T. McCloy, 1918, writes on his arrival at Oxford University, where he has gone as a Rhodes Scholar: “We
came across on the Aquitania, making the journey in six days. On the steamer, 30 American Rhodes scholars were the
guests of Lord Leaverbrook for dinner. My college (Pembroke) was founded and built in 1624. It has neither steam heat
nor electric lights. This is true of several of the colleges of the University.”

ADDRESSES WANTED.

In trying to collect the Soldier Records, the following men have been reported as being in the service, but all
letters addressed to them in regard to the matter have been returned to the office unclaimed. If anyone can furnish
the Library of the college with their present addresses, it will be a great favor:

J. I. Yohanan.
Benjamin C. Wright, Jr.
Joseph A. Ayers.
W. A. Dumas.
D. L. Watson.
Dr. R. S. McGeachy.
H. J. Stucky.
W. B. Smith.
Maxcy Hall Carr.
Thos. H. Strohecker.
T. E. Winecoff.
Augustus Leazar.
H. P. Worth.

Any Davidson man who was in the service and who has not sent in his official record is urged to
do so within this week. We have the names of nearly two hundred from whom we have been unable to
get any sort of reply to varied requests.

THE COMMISSARY PROSPERS.

Behold! Ponzi's new addition to his commissary. Its graceful rounded lines, noiseless motor should make any man want to open
a commissary. Through the stillness of the night comes the hum...of the diamond-hearing motor, and the long illuminating rays of
perfect radiolite. This has been the chief amusement of the hill since its arrival. Now listen, fellows, Ponzi doesn't charge
you a cent to let you look it over. This is the only thing you can get free at the
Commissary. All the boys that haven't already taken advantage of this free show should do so at once, since he
may begin to charge admission.

All Charlotte stood dumbfounded when this magnificent work of man noiselessly glided through the throng of astonished onlookers. When the
graceful car came on the football field, people forgot there was a game going on and turned their attention to
the new arrival. Many a sigh came from the Freshmen, saying, “To think a fresh-cap could cause so great a
marvel.” There was wailing and gnashing of teeth, however, for the Macamac parted with ten perfectly good plunks for the
privilege of teaching Fonzi where not to park in Charlotte.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Wilson McConnell was summoned to Baltimore last week on account of the extreme illness of both her parents.

Dr. E. N. Orr, of Charlotte, spent Sunday on the hill.

Capt. John Moore, of Taylorsville, is visiting at the home of his son, Rev. John Moore.

During the first three registration days, 93 women of Davidson registered. A good many more are expected to do the
same before the last registration day, which is the 23rd of October.

The Book Lovers’ Club held an interesting meeting at the home of Mrs. J. R. Withers last Friday. Mrs. Lola
Johnston read a paper on “The Task of the Primadonna,” followed by Miss Hattie Thompson, who discussed “The Famous Opera
Houses of the World.”

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle spent the weekend with friends in Winston-Salem.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained at a family dinner party last week in honor of Professor Erwin’s birthday. The invited
guests included Mr. and Mrs. Fred Laxton, Mr. and Mrs. Louis McKay from Charlotte, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. White
of Graham, and Misses Lizzie and Mary Young of Davidson.

Miss Susie Brady spent a few days last week with her home folks here in Davidson.

Dr. T. W. Lingle preached last Sunday at Thyatira Church.

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Fall Sports--- We have a big stock of all kinds of Sporting Goods. Call or write us.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

The Charlotte Steam Laundry
OLDEST LARGEST BEST

The Macamac Company, Agency

POWER HOUSE

Robinson Shoe Company
We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade
MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION
Robinson Shoe Company
Gastonia, N. C.
