THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1920

Who, What and Where Among the Alumni

JUDGE OSBORNE PASSES AWAY
Noted Alumnus Dies Suddenly at Home in Charlotte—Was Noted Jurist and Able Lawyer.

The sudden death of Judge Francis I. Osborne, of Charlotte, N.C., came as a distinct shock to all those who knew him. He was on the streets the day before, apparently in his usual health, and his death at 9:15 on Tuesday morning, January 20, was a great blow to the community. He had remarked to Mrs. Osborne a short time before his death that he did not sleep and was not feeling well, mentioning a pain in his chest. A few minutes later, heavy breathing was heard in his room, and before medical help could be secured, he had passed away.

The funeral services were held at the home Thursday morning at 11 o'clock, Rev. Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, of the First Presbyterian Church, officiating. Interment was in the Elmwood cemetery.

Judge Osborne was born in the old Mint building, in Charlotte, May 29, 1853, his father, Judge James Walker Osborne, having been superintendent of schools. Judge Osborne entered the preparatory department of Davidson, from which he graduated in 1872. He then began the study of law under Judge Richmond Pearson, ex-justice of the supreme court, who conducted a famous law school at Richmond Hill, Yadkin county. He remained under the tutelage of this illustrious jurist for two years and was then admitted to the bar.

For a number of years, Judge Osborne practiced his profession in Charlotte, being a law partner with the late W. C. Maxwell, in the firm of Osborne and Maxwell. He was known as one of the ablest lawyers of the Charlotte bar for 40 years. At the age of 25 years, Judge Osborne was elected mayor of the city, and four years later was elected solicitor of the Sixth judicial district. In 1892, he was elected attorney general of North Carolina, serving four years. He was unanimously endorsed for re-election but was defeated by the combination of Republicans and Populists in 1896. The same year, he was elected to the State Senate.

President Roosevelt appointed Judge Osborne as one of the United States Court of Land Claims, which position he held for three years, his duties taking him to Santa Fe, N.M., and Denver, Col. For many years, he was general attorney for the Southern Power Company, the Southern Public Utilities Company, and affiliated companies.

Judge Osborne married Miss Mary Dewey, daughter of Thomas W. and Bessie Lacy Dewey, on November 13, 1878. He was a member of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N.C. In speaking of him, the Charlotte Observer speaks editorially: “Frank Osborne was perhaps the one lawyer in North Carolina who might be said to have had a statewide reputation. Wherever one should go throughout the bounds of the state, he would be sure to hear mention of Judge Osborne.”

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, January 29, 30 and 31

SHERWIN KELLY
The Singing Cyclist

FLORENCE MERIT AND GABY BRIDWELL
Bright Bits of Mirth and Melody

HENRY B. TOOMER
An Up-to-the-Minute Comedy Playlet “THE WIFE SAVER.”

CHARLES IRWIN
The Well Known Musical Comedy Star, in “PLEASANT MEMORIES”

VINCENT REDFORD and GENE WINCHESTER
In a Juggling Jamboreethe Mint for four years, Osborne having been appointed by President Millard Fillmore. After attending the

VAUDEVILLE
Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc.

OVERTURE
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Direction H. E. Leppert

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

Assisted by Esther Day and Charlotte Mary.

It was an enviable fame which the late Judge Osborne enjoyed among North Carolina people, for it was the fame that comes to one who is recognized for pre-eminent talents in his chosen profession. "Judge Osborne’s predominant characteristic was his rugged sense of honor... Men of his type and ideals, once numerous in the South, have become few, and the legal profession is the poorer for their passing."

WILLIAM WOODHULL WOOD
University of Virginia Graduate Holds Professorship at Davidson.

William Woodhull Wood was first heard from on June 30, 1888, somewhere in the neighborhood of the town of Woodrow Wilson, George Washington, and Robert E. Lee. After completing his high school course, he entered the University of Virginia in 1905, graduating four years later with an A.B. degree, having distinguished himself by becoming a member of the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity. Continuing his work at the same institution, he graduated as a civil engineer in 1912.

After the completion of his university course, Professor Wood was employed for a time by the E. I. Du Pont-De Nemours Co., and by the Southern Railway, also engaging in some outside private work. Coming to Davidson in 1915, he has continued his services here since that time as professor of Applied Mathematics, Geology, and Astronomy. During the five years of his work at Davidson, Professor Wood has been always the same carefully prepared and scholarly accurate professor in his classroom and the same genial friend in his general intercourse with the students. Though not an alumnus of Davidson, he is very truly in harmony with the spirit of the college, contributing in a very important way to the life on the campus and in town.

Reese Jenkins, '17, is preparing for the ministry at Columbia Seminary.

The Bank of Davidson
Does Commercial Banking,
Runs a Savings Department,
Has Lock Boxes For Rent

If I can please you, tell others. If not, please tell me.
Next to Pressing Club

DAVIDSON, N. C.

For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz, the Florist.

Our Drinks Are Unexcelled
Special service given to your prescriptions.

Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

TAILORS
PRESSING
ALTERING
DRY CLEANING

MURRAY COMPANY
In front of Western Union Telegraph Co.
31 S. TRYON ST.
Phone 429 and a man will come over with the latest styles and patterns for college men on the market. We make a specialty of young men’s garments.

FANCY GROCERIES
EVERYTHING GOOD TO EAT
CANDIES, FRUITS AND PEANUTS A SPECIALTY
Farm Produce Bought and Sold

Junior Speaking Will Soon Be Here
Get ready by ordering a nifty tailored suit. Traymore Tailoring Co. has 400 new samples on display. Drop in and look 'em over.

MATTHEWS & WILSON
16 Chambers