THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1920.

Bob Miles, our “Y” secretary last year, received a warm welcome here during his short visit last week. He stayed
over Saturday morning and then went to the game in Charlotte.

DR. THORNTON C. WHALING HEADS COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY.

Classmate of Woodrow Wilson Stands High in List of Davidson's Sons.

Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, was born at Radford, Va., June 5, 1858. He, with President
Woodrow Wilson, entered Davidson as a member of the class of '77, but like the President did not remain at
Davidson long enough to carry away the diploma of the College. However, he made good this deficiency by winning the
A. B. degree at Roanoke College in 1879; the family having moved from Charlotte to Salem, Va., and that of
A.M., in 1885. He attended Union Theological Seminary, New York, 1879-1881, and Columbia Theological Seminary, 1882-1883. Both Austin and Roanoke
College honored him with the degree of D.D., and later the Southwestern Presbyterian University added an LL. D. to his
name and, in continuance of the good work, Louisiana College made him Doctor of Literature.

Ordained to the Presbyterian ministry in 1883, Dr. Whaling held pastorates in Cheraw, S.C. and Birmingham, Ala. from 1883 to
1902. From 1892 to 1896 he served as Professor of Philosophy and Economics in Southwestern Presbyterian University. From 1896 to
1905 he was pastor of the church at Lexington, Va. Called from Lexington to Dallas, Texas, he served in the
pastorate there from 1905 to 1911. Since then Dr. Whaling has been President of Columbia Theological Seminary and in connection
with the duties of this office has filled the chair of Didactic and Polemic Theology.

During these busy years as teacher and executive, he has found time to write a great deal. In addition to
his contributions to the papers and quarterlies he has written and published among others, the following books: The Church and
Education; Jesus Christ and Christian Doctrine; Questions in Theology. In 1913 Dr. Whaling was chosen to deliver the Avera Bible
Lectures at Trinity College.

It might be difficult to decide in what line of work Dr. Whaling has attained his most marked success. Certainly,
he is most widely and favorably known as an orator, as a sermon-maker, as a writer, interested particularly in both
philosophy and theology and ecclesiastical questions. Both in religious periodicals and on the floor of the Church courts from the
lowest to the highest he has proven himself a brilliant debater and profound thinker. In his platform work he lacks
neither thought, oratorical power, or cogency in argument or pronouncement. His command of English is notable and affecting as he
does the polysyllabic word, the ambitious phrase, and the rhetorical figure, and enlivening his discourse, where occasion permits, with a
touch of humor, he is heard in the Assembly with marked interest and great pleasure by everybody, save it may
be, the few over whose head he unfortunately talks.

Dr. Whaling evidences his interest in Davidson, the first alma mater that nourished him intellectually, by continuing to serve, as
he has for years, on the board of trustees and as a member of the Executive Committee of the College.

With much sadness, all the boys learn of the death of George Logan, ex-’23, which recently occurred at Midway, Ky.
For months he had been under a physician's care, and had not left his bed since his return from D.C.
last spring following an attack of influenza. Although he was with us only less than a year, we all learned
to love and admire him. He showed himself at all times while here to be a man of high character
and Christian qualities. He is survived by his parents, three sisters, and two brothers. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to
these, his loved ones in their bereavement. George will long be remembered at Davidson.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel Charlotte, N. C.

See Us For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler's Candy, Waterman's Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholtz,
the Florist. Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions. Yours truly, Jetton Drug Co.

CHARLOTTE SPEEDER COMPANY Phone 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

CRACKERS MAKE MERRY.

Last Friday night, October 22, all the horny-handed sons of toil from the Empire State of Georgia, assembled in the
gym to engage in joyous festivities. As McGukin's watch struck ten, the Crackers were admitted into the banquet room where
a sumptuous feast had been prepared by the Chef, Paul McAlpine. And such a pleasing sight met the eye.The table
in the center of the room was HERE AND THERE loaded with delicious dainties, so AMONG OUR ALUMNI artistically arranged
as to spell G-E-O-R-G-I-A. After unanimously electing P. Q. Miller as master of ceremonies, and introducing all the new men,
it was decided that the spread should be the first case on docket. Then Miller called the house to order
and made a most excellent speech punctuated at intervals with marvelous outbursts of humor. After Mr. Miller, all the new
men were given the opportunity to make a talk, tell a joke, or pull a bush. The program came to
an end with an able and admirable address by President Mitchell, who outlined the purposes of the club and gave
plans for the coming year.

Charles Watt, Jr., ex-'11, is practicing law at Camilla, Ga. G. Allen Ives, ex-'18, is Treasurer of the New Bern
Cotton Oil and Fertilizer Mills, located at New Bern, N.C. Mr. Ives was in command of a Submarine Chaser in
the Irish Sea and Channel during the last year of the war.

PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN

The club voted to send a telegram of support to Georgia Tech when she battled against Pitt. Then after adjournment,
the Crackers gave yells for the Empire State, Hardwick, and Tom Watson.

Walker, ex-'17, is in business.

Edith—Oh, Clifford, why did they put all this meal on the dance floor?
Tip—Why, they do that to make the chickens feel at home.

THE RALEIGH | Charlotte’s Best Cafe

Robert H. Harding, ex-'18, will be married to Miss Link, of Charlotte, on November 10th. Frank L. Fuller, ex-'14, is
the junior member of the law firm, Fuller, Meade, and Fuller, at Durham, N.C. And Emmett H. Bellamy is a
member of the law firm of John D. Bellamy and Company, at Wilmington, N.C.

Dr. John E. Evans, '10, is associated with the Walker Memorial Hospital at Wilmington, N.C., since his return from France.
Alexander Sprunt, Jr., ex-'18, of Charleston, S.C., is to be married to Miss Margaret Vardell, at Red Springs, N.C., on
Wednesday, the 27th.

J. T. Matthews, Prop. D. R. Nimocks, ex-'22, is now studying Law at Wake Forest. He was at the game
in Charlotte last Saturday and did not seem to be at all sick over our victory.

The Macamac Company Agents

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists.
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music, and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

MANY CANDIDATES OUT FOR THE GLEE CLUB

The Davidson Glee Club has been reorganized. Charlie Vance is leader, Carl Matthews manager, and Fred Thompson, assistant manager. It
meets for practice on Monday, Thursday, and Friday nights at eight o'clock. The club proposes to take one or two
trips this fall and one through Georgia next spring. About forty or fifty fellows are out this year, and it
seems as if a great program is in store. There will be solos, a quartette, several chorus selections, and some
instrumental music on saxophones, mandolins, and guitars. There will also be the usual comedian attraction if a person capable of
filling Carl Cathey’s place can be secured.

Just now the club is working on college songs, such as “O Davidson,” and “Alma Mater.” Later on, a good
deal of popular music will be taken up. A tour of Southern female colleges is being arranged for February. Plans
are underway for concerts at Queens, Winthrop, Converse, and Agnes Scott.

Miss Lilian Floyd, Miss Mildred Barber, Mrs. Linney, Zack Linney, Dick Stitt, and Rob Wearn, of Charlotte, came up for
the game last Saturday.

The Macamac Company, Agency

POWER HOUSE

Robinson Shoe Company

We carry a complete line of Fine Shoes for the Young Men’s Trade. MAIL ORDERS GIVEN SPECIAL ATTENTION.

Robinson Shoe Company Gastonia, N.C.

J. W. Simpson spent the weekend at Durham, N.C.
