. THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920. Athletic News

KITTENS DEFEAT WINSTON-SALEM 52 TO 23.

Completely Outclassed. Crawford, and Price Star.

The Davidson scrubs had a pleasant and enjoyable trip to Winston last Thursday. They were welcomed at the station by several of the Winston players and J. T. Maddrey, an old Davidson student. The game was fast and interesting from start to finish and ended with the Wild Kittens victors, score 52 to 23.

Here are some extracts from the Winston Journal: “The game opened with Crawford poking the first one there. Back came Cardwell with a long shot half the distance of the floor. Much credit of the afternoon goes to Cardwell of the locals and Crawford of the visitors. Capt. Davis is due much credit as he was there and made no friends among the Davidson five. Moore and Logan put up a fine defense game.”

King played an outstanding game at guard, though from the number of goals he shot, one might think he was a forward. During the game he caged seven baskets, shooting them from every angle. Price at stationary guard also played a good game, breaking up plays coming and going. Also, he shot his goal before the game was over. Brake was right in the game and did his part. Ormand went in the last few minutes and caged three goals. Again the Journal says: “Davidson scrubs have won a home here at Winston for their clean, sportsmanlike play, and they have a wonderful team. They just had us outclassed, that’s all, and don’t think Capt. Davis’ bunch didn’t fight.”

The scrubs wish to assure the good people of Winston that they enjoyed their many kindnesses and the good time afforded them. “Funny” Fulton is due much credit as he is the one who planned a nice reception for the fellows, also saw that they had a good place to stay.

The line-up was as follows:
Winston - Davidson
Cardwell - R. F. - Crawford
Wilson - L. F. - Brake
Davis (C) - C. - Tone
Moore - G. - Price
Logan - L. G. - King

Substitutes: Davidson, Ormand and Craig.

TRACK PROSPECTS.

Although it is early in the season to make any statement concerning the kind of a track team that will be turned out this year, the prospects are that we will have a team that will be above the average. At the first call for track men about twenty-five candidates presented themselves and are practicing faithfully every day. As a nucleus for a track team this year we have four of last year's letter men, and around these men the team will be formed.

Men who are showing speed in the sprints are Murray, Brice, Denniston, McGuire, Adams, P. O., Bethea, and Gordon. Men trying out for the High Jump and Pole Vault are Garrett, Carr, “Bob” Davidson, and J. C. McCaskill. These men are showing good form and a winner should be developed. Those trying out for the distances are Sprunt, letter man from last year, Price, J. K., Dick, L. W., and Covington. E. McLeod is handling the weights this year and is showing much improvement over last year, having already equaled his last year’s mid-season record.

The annual class track meet will be held on March 27, and after this meet there will be contests with Clemson, South Carolina, Trinity, State meet, and Southern Intercollegiate meet. Men who are going to try out for the class track team and those who are thinking of doing so will be very much interested to know that plans are underway to bring Queens College up to Davidson on the Field day on March 27. Let us hope that these plans work out and that we may entertain so many fair guests on this long looked for day.

HIGH SCHOOL TEAMS STAGE FAST CONTEST.

Friday afternoon Davidson’s basketball court was the scene of the game deciding the High School Champion of Western North Carolina. Belmont and Charlotte were the schools represented and they staged an excellent game which was attended by quite a number of the students from both schools as well as a large representation of the Davidson student body. From the very first, the Charlotte boys took the lead and though at times Belmont showed good form they never succeeded in finding the pace set by their opponents. Leeper, center of the Belmont team, played an especially good game and was easily the star for the losers. Moore, one of the Charlotte forwards, was perhaps the most outstanding member of his team. The winners seemed to have most of the fine points of the game at their disposal and when the last ten-minute quarter was over the score stood, Charlotte 47, Belmont 17.

R. O. T. C. NEWS.

The Mecklenburg Chero-Cola CompanyARCH. B. TAYLOR, '11, Manager, may be had for fifteen dollars apiece. The ring is a very neat affair and from all appearances will serve its purpose well, for in the years after graduation it will be a tangible link between the past and the present. Welcome, Volunteers!

DESERVING REPORTERS APPLICATIONS FILED FOR ADVANCED COURSE IN R. O. T. C. SUMMER CAMP APPLICATIONS ALSO FILED.

Seven men of next year’s Senior class have filed applications for the advanced course of R. O. T. C. These are: Sample, J. H., Rogers, R. L., Poteat, I. A., Brice, S. D., Miller, F. E., Mitchell, A. M., and Boulware, J. Two members of the rising Junior class have also filed applications. The matter will be presented to all other members of this class soon. Col. Mueller requests that all men interested call at Headquarters and secure information.

Twenty-six students put in their names for the summer camp, which is to be held at Camp Benning, near Columbus, Ga. Those planning to attend this camp are: Roberts, G. B., Lowrance, D. W., Rogers, R. L., Wool, J. C., Thames, F. C., Knight, R. J., Boyd, B. H., Martindale, G. B., Phillips, J. W., Long, W. T., Cooper, W. J., Ogden, D. H., Jr., Wilkes, J. T., Jr., Price, J. P., Richards, J. M., Moore, W. W., Hall, J. V., Morris, H. M., McGukin, E. B., Lowry, T. M., Russell, H. R., Bitzer, R., Mitchell, A. M., Clark, J. F., McLauchlin, J. C., Summers, A. C.

An effort is being made to have the band fill the engagements made by the Glee Club. Application has been made to the faculty for necessary authority. The matter of finances is one big obstacle. We are proud of our band, and know that if they make this trip they will make a fine showing. Welcome, Volunteers!

JUNIORS AND SENIORS ORIGINATE LONG NEEDED CUSTOM

The authority has been given to the Junior and Senior classes to establish the custom of having class rings. This has been agitated for some years but no action has been taken on the matter till this year. Sometime ago the Junior class passed a motion to buy them and then submitted it to the Senior class in order that they might co-operate in getting them. The result is that the ring has been selected and those in the two classes who desire them have put in their orders. The ring that has been chosen is a 10 dwt solid gold seal ring. The seal is the college emblem raised and set with a ruby. On the band to one side of the seal is a D. C., and on the other side the class numeral. On the inside will be engraved the degree for which the owner is a candidate. If enough of the men will order them a reduction in price will be made so that they may be had for fifteen dollars apiece. The ring is a very neat affair and from all appearances will serve its purpose well, for in the years after graduation it will be a tangible link between the past and the present. Welcome, Volunteers!

WARDED FOR THEIR WORK

J. B. READLING, Cornelius, N. C. WRITES INSURANCE

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

A Victrola In Your Home

Seven Men to Receive Golden Quill

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced as Recognition of Their Service. The faithful have been rewarded. Dave Roberts, in the spring of 1919, conceived the idea of substantially rewarding the members of the Reporters Club who did work of outstanding merit. The Golden Quill was the result. The Davidsonian offered, at the beginning of the present term, a gold pin in the form of a quill to the men who did the best work for the publication this year. Only seven men may receive the award in one year, and among this number the president of the Reporters Club is included ex officio. Those selected: T. H. Spence, President; E. N. Booker, W. P. Cumming, M. R. Doubles, R. T. L. Liston, D. L. Mahood, J. M. Richards. Welcome, Volunteers!

BROWN’S The Sensible Place to Eat 17 South Tryon CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FOUND Work which nets you $300 per month. John Parks, '22 averaged two maps an hour last summer. National Map Co. (Business established 1885) INDIANAPOLIS, IND. or see F. E. MANNING, 8 RUMPLE

by the Greatest Artists Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, and Everything in Music F. H. ANDREWS’ MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C. Sheet Music

A D V la Direction S. A. LYNCH ENTERPRISES, Inc. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, March 4, 5 and 6 OVERTURE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA Direction H. E. Leppert PATHE NEWS ROLIN COMEDY HARRY AND KITTY SUTTON In “THE POWDER AND PUFF GIRL” McCORMACK AND WINEHILL The Two Jazz Boys from Dixie MME. DOROTHY JORDAN The Famous Grand Opera Diva presents the Three Dolge Sisters and Company in a Spectacular Musical Melange HANK BROWN AND COMPANY In “COME HERE, COME HERE JIM The Shimmy King