4 The DAVIDSONIAN, FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Open Forum
“HUMOR VS. PROFANITY.”

The view of the writer in last week’s Davidsonian that the use of profanity in our college yells and songs
indicates a “sense of humor” was hardly shared by the policeman who endeavored to make our students—Davidson students—stop using profanity
in the hearing of the ladies and other citizens on the Charlotte streets. It was hardly shared by the godly
founders of Davidson or their successors, whose gifts and labors have given us the privileges we now enjoy. Acceptance of
the standard for our language as set out by last week's writer would be a serious blow to the ideals
for which Davidson stands. The ideals of Davidson College have not had in the past, and do not have now,
any relations to profanity. The same is true of Davidson ideals in athletics. Profanity is not an essential to red-blooded
scrapping. Cromwell's Ironsides were brave and strong not only because of their Christian faith, but also because of their Christian
practices. Went through West Point without a demerit, didn’t find profanity necessary to his bravery and wonderful generalship. The use
of profanity is regarded as an indication of poverty in the command of words. If we Davidson students have so
few yells and songs that we must fill in with profane ones, it will be a very simple matter to
ask suggestions from the students for additional songs and yells; it will be a very simple matter to find other
words for the “Hail, Hail!” tune.

C. J. MATTHEWS.

EDITORIAL

We are wondering if our athletic “jinx” could be buried in Charlotte. It now seems that the Queen City smiles
upon the Red and Black as much as could be desired.

Do not become so occupied with the busy routine of your every day life that you will fail to catch
the inspiration of a future life of great, unselfish service.

Our hats are off to the Citadel team, for though outplayed, they never once resorted to dirty or unfair tactics.
Congratulations to the team for accepting the things Davidson stands for and always playing clean athletics.

Do not fool yourself by ever thinking that betting on your team is an indication of your loyalty and support.
It is due either to the love of gambling, or to the selfish desire to gain “easy” money by winning.

For the first time this year our Varsity eleven will be seen in action on the home grounds when they
meet the University of South Carolina here Saturday. All indications point to this being a hard-fought game, and this being
the case it is all the more possible that certain little things happening by chance might thoughtlessly be construed wrongly
if the students are not on their guard. Always has it been said of Davidson by visiting teams that they
were never treated better at any school and it is our hope that during the present year this can again
be the case; therefore, we urge each student to extend every possible courtesy to the visitors while on our campus.
At one of our neighboring colleges this fall, the students repeatedly gave cheers for their opponents when executing some skillful
play, and surely the fair spirit of Davidson is not one to be outdone in anything of a similar nature.
Let it be said of the supporters of the Red and Black that whether their team is winning or losing,
they always recognize and acknowledge those traits which are admirable in their opponents.

ARE YOU PROGRESSIVE?

We are glad to know that the plan first advocated through our publication of having a minstrel to take the
place of Senior Speaking is being materialized. We hope it will not be amiss to again urge that every man
in the student body who has any talent at all along this line make haste to answer the call that
has been issued in order that definite action may be taken.

The need is only too apparent for better social conditions on the campus. This is your chance. Do not let
it slip by unheeded. Forget the fact that it is not a Davidson custom to have a minstrel, and get
into the game. Let it be your desire to make the first trial such a success that it will become
an annual custom. This show together with concerts by the Band and Glee Club would give an opportunity for two
performances that some people delight to hear. The Band proceeded to Queens College, where they were received with open arms,
ears, and hearts. When one of the members alighted from the street car a fair damsel rushed up, as though
to receive him, taking the instrument he had dropped and prepared for the welcome but Lo! she passed him.Three days
of innocent pleasure that would be beneficial in many ways. Why not start something new? Do not be content to
remain in a rut. After some trouble, he was restored to consciousness and with just a short delay, the band
was starting on the first of the ten numbers of the concert. The question is now being debated as to
whether the North Carolina game will be played in Charlotte or not. This change, we believe, would be welcomed by
the majority of the students not only because the Queen City has shown that it will support our team, but
the saving in railroad fare if the game is not played in Winston-Salem would amount to about fifteen hundred dollars
for the student body. Under such circumstances, a greater number of the boys will see this game, and this aspect
is an important one as every supporter of the Wildcats will be needed to help our team win from the
Tar Heels.

During the intermission, the soloist, Houston White, sang several lyrics in Spanish, accompanied by William P. Nesbitt on the guitar.
The program was brought to a close with “O Davidson.” It was followed by a reception which everyone enjoyed. But
as everyone knows—there is an end to every “Perfect Day,” thus the band took their departure giving “15” for Queens.
After the members of that famous organization, namely the “Davidson College Band,” had supped sumptuously at one of the famous
“Chop-Suey” houses in the Metropolis of Charlotte, they met in the lobby of the Mecklenburg Hotel; collected their instruments, which
though they torture your sense of hearing—

CHANGE CAROLINA GAME TO CHARLOTTE. As far as the money-making end of the game is concerned, the Wake Forest game
in Charlotte netted the management about the same as the Carolina contest in Winston last fall. There can be no
doubt but that the Blue and White eleven will be a bigger drawing card than the Baptists and the whole
Queen City will turn out to see this classy football scrap. With such an attendance, the receipts will be far
in excess of anything that the Twin City could give. For these two striking reasons, we would urge that all
possible means be tried to change this game to Charlotte.

Listen, Old Men! We are expecting you here Saturday and down on Sprunt Field in the afternoon yelling for the
old Red and Black like you used to do! Don’t forget to be here, fellows, for we are going to
have a great jubilee after the game. Robert E. Lee, the only man who ever—

It is further recognized that a true—

They then—where assurance literally, with open arms—he—

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1920.

EXCHANGE

Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room.

ODE TO AUTUMN.
The naked hills lie wanton to the breeze;
The fields are nude, the groves unfrocked;
Bare are the shimmying limbs of the shameless trees.
What wonder if the corn is shocked?
—The Reveille.

“A garter’s not a cow,
Just ‘cause it’s round a calf.”
—The Crimson and White.

The Freshman class offers a reward of 13 cents for the apprehension of the guy who started the rumor that
said class has no spirit—The Technique.

“We won 7-0, by the grace of God and prayers.”—A Georgia professor's telegram to his wife after the Furman-Georgia game.

WHY WAIT?
The clock struck nine. I looked at Kate
Her lips were rosy red.
“At quarter after nine, I mean
To steal a kiss,” I said.
She cast a roguish glance at me,
And then she whispered low,
With quite her sweetest smile,
“The clock is fifteen minutes slow.”
—Sewanee Purple.

A woman is as old as she looks—
The Old Gold and Black (Wofford).

Some More You Tell 'Ems.
You tell ‘em Near-Beer, you're so gentle.
You tell ‘em Corkscrew, you're crooked.
You tell ‘em Uniform, you don’t have fits.
You tell ‘em Absence Regulations, you're hard.
You tell ‘em Pipe, you’re strong enough.
You tell ‘em football, you're used to kicks.
You tell ‘em Doggett, you’ve got the bark.
You tell ‘em Tennis Racket, you've got the guts.

‘Tie Better Because It Came From His Heart.
Law Prof.—“Mr. Vance, we will assume that—that you have been accepted by the only girl. Now, Mr. Vance, what legal
officer would you see first, to get the legal touch?”
Charlie Vance—“I reckon it would be best to see a Justice of the Peace first, sir.”

Fresh—“You were not prepared on the debate, were you?”
Mitler—“No.”
Fresh—"I didn’t think so.”

EXERCISING OLE TAURUS.
By “Bobbie.”
Did you ever wake up in the morning and you've got a dark brown taste in your mouth and even
the gentle cleansing water from the tank makes you sore cause it wakes you up more and you don’t care
whether Davidson runs out of grits or not so you go on to breakfast and even the green campus looks
like it had been painted blue and the bright sunshine rates a scorn from your highness and that pesky bell
rings again for that first class which takes the joy that remains in this terrible life and on class you
sit in a trance thinking that it’s all wrong Oswald and then you hear one of old man Fairfax Harrison’s
coffeepots spread the glad tiding that the nine o’clock train is “in the yard” but old man grouch says no
mail for you and then you agree with him and swear that it’s all wrong but just for habit’s sake
you'll go down and dust out the box so the check from home next month will receive the proper courtesy
and when your peepers gaze in Uncle Sam’s cell they see a wonderful pink envelope that you’ve been longing for
and then old man gloom is out of date and gets a swift kick which registers joy, joy on your
face and oh, boy don’t the sun shine brightly and don’t the birds sing sweeter than usual and you’ve most
forgot that won’t there be a moon tonight oh, boy did you ever?

The following watched the team in action Saturday: O. P. (Ophelia) Hart, '19, who is teaching in Charlotte; T. H.
Spence, '20, who is teaching at Oak Ridge; Lee Campbell, ex-'23, now at Wake Forest; R. D. and F. P.
Hall, '19, both of Belmont, N. C.; Lacy McAlister and A. L. Fosque, '20; T. H. Wilson, '20, who is
now in business with his father in Gastonia; R. R. Clarke, ‘19, of Estell, S.C.

Mr. C. H. Hamilton as elder of Gilwood Church, attended the Synod.

I know what seasoning will do to make it break a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco, a real
French briar is, sweet and mellow. Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then pick yours.

Wm. DEMUTH & Co., WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES, NEW YORK.
