THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

BY J.M. DUNLAP

Thanx. At the suggestion of Harry Elliott, a list of the points to the jokes in this column will be
found at another place in the paper.

You Said It!
The Seniors, at any rate, have something to be thankful for this fall.

What Shall it Be?
As December 1st draws nigh so does Christmas. But what we started out to say was that it was high
time for the Seniors to start scratching their heads in an effort to induce those ornaments to produce subjects for
their Theses. To prevent such characters as Dave Roberts from scratching out all the hair which remains on their spinal-chord
stabilizers, we submit the following subjects by way of suggestion. Of course, any other subject which nobody knows anything about
will do as well.

A New View of the Obvious.
Infinity Brought to Light.
Slang—Ain't It Awful?
Table Manners on Mars.
Essay on Bolshevism (in words of one syllable).
How to Profess (An Aid to College Professors).
My College Education in a Nut-Shell.
A Scheme to Remodel the World.
The World a Million Years From Now.
The Bearing of the New Theory of Relativity on Perpetual Motion in the Fourth Dimension.
Et Cetera Ad Infinitum.

Erratum.
Jim Boulware requests us to make a correction—a thing which we are always pleased to do. Jim says that it
is Louis Schenck, pres. of the Y. M. C. A. and not he, who has the defective eyesight. The Peanut
Parcher regrets deeply the occurrence of this most lamentable error.

This Week's Bone.
Bobbie Long tells the law class that Annette Kellerman is blind, deaf, and dumb. Our heart goes out in sympathy
to Annette in her affliction.

Come One! Come All!
The World’s Greatest Side Show
In connection with the Jay Bird Minstrels
You'll Never Forget It
You'll Never Regret It
Admission Ten Cents—A Dime
Walk right up ladies—step this way—see

C. J. Matthews - The Human Sponge
J. M. Gaston - A Monkey’s Uncle
McCaskill and Cassell - Birds of Prey
Tommy Bethea - The Missing Link
Meacham and Morris - Pigmies (from Borneo)
E. J. Holbrook - A Lion (with ladies)
C. E. Hughes - The Strong Man (he eats nails)
Guy Jones - The Lounge Lizard

You'll Never Forget It.

A Ballad of Every-Day Things.
By J. W. C.

I want to go home, the student said,
I want to go home to “her.”
My spirit pines for her sweet voice
Of tend’rest devotion dear.

You durst not go, his room-mate said,
You durst not leave this place
To wander fair fields o’er with her
And set her heart a-pace.

For you've no buttons on your clothes;
Your socks are torn and stained.
Down at the laundry the deed was done,
Done, forsooth, in high disdain.

Has’t leave been granted you, my boy
By your grandad's only son?
If not, ‘tis no use to think of her
For here you stay anon.

In sorrow the student agreed
To all that had been said.
His wandering mind to earth he brought
And thought of beans and bread.

FOOTBALL STAR GIVES LATEST DOPE ON GAME
Montague Clarke Picks C. M. Clark for All-Southern Honors.

In an interview with a prominent business man on the train en route to Pinehurst for the Scrub-Freshman game, young
Clark gave out the following startling information: The Davidson second team is really composed of better players than the varsity.
In fact, it generally comes out ahead in all contests between the two teams. However, the varsity players were here
and played last year and for the sake of sentiment they are allowed to play again this year. Possibly they
will all graduate in time for the Scrubs to show their real ability, however, and it is hoped that Mr.
Clark will then be able to meet some players of his own caliber and make a name for himself. The
star guard went on to explain that the Scrubs would not think of lowering itself by playing a freshmen team
were it not for the financial remunerations expected. The Davidsonian reporter was on the job as usual, and it is
through his good work that the paper is able to print this inside information.

Caution.
The Peanut Parcher has had its life insured and we now sing the refrain to “Hail, Hail, the gang’s all
here.”

Why Not?
When everything else on the Hill has had a collection taken up in its honor, we wonder if some altruistic
gentleman couldn't start raising a fund for the Davidsonian staff.

Our Philosophy.
‘Tis better to have loved and lost,
Than win—and evermore be bossed;
And he who never loved a one,
Has far more sense than Solomon.

Hew! Haw!
Martin Foil says he takes the Concord paper so he can read the weather report today and see what the
weather was going to be yesterday.

A Natural Man.
A wee girl strolled across our Campus,
With all her might she tried to lampus,
But we were too wise
To flop for her eyes,
So she gave up all hope for to vampus.

The Barrack Boulevard was not meant for wet weather—let alone Davidson rains.

Sam Brady hasn’t anything to say this week.

Sam Story said——but we can't repeat it here.

Sounds Like Him.
J. E. Cassell—I say you are pretty darling.
She—But you would say I’m pretty whether you thought so or not.
J. E—And I know that you would know you were pretty whether I told you or not.

He's Not So Far Wrong After All.
Sam Burgess (writing to girl)—“yes, it rains up here nine days in every week.”

An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure.
(We'll say it happened in 1929.)
A. P. Ormand was visiting in the home of his old friend John Gaston. Mrs. Gaston had left the room,
but it seems that herspirit remained after her.

A. P—And I say John old man, were you all nerves when you proposed to your wife?

J. G—No, I wasn't, but if I could have foreseen the future I should have been.

- Six goals.

JUNIORS CINCH (Continued from page 1)

affair with '23 as onlookers. Scored only two more goals before the final whistle. The Juniors, on the other hand,
doubled their score of the first half, then on the game was wholly a Junior told at the last. There
were only two fouls called during the game, both on the Juniors. McConnell put the ball through the basket on
the first, but failed on the second. Doubles made the first four scores for the Juniors, and made four more
later in the game. Ormond scored four times, Erwin twice, and Freeman once. Doubles 30-13 was the tale the scoreboard
told at the last.

For the Sophs, Crawford and Bostick featured, with Toney, Brake, and Bradley delivering the goods when called upon. McLaurin at
guard played a consistent game. For the Juniors, Captain Doubles and Price led the offensive, Ormond, A. C., played a
wonderful floor game, while Cornelson and Erwin stopped anything that looked like a Soph offensive.

Line-up:
Juniors (36) Sophs (23)
Ormond (6) ------------ Crawford (4)
Doubles (12) ----------- Bostick (2)
Cornelson (4) ---------- Toney (4)
Price (8) --------------- McLaurin (2)
Erwin (4) -------------- Bradley (2)

Substitutions — Juniors: Freeman; Sophs: Brake (6); foul goals: Ormond (2), Crawford (3); referee: Schenck, L. B.; timekeepers: Davis and
Cunningham; scorer: Aiken.

Fresh 28; Seniors 25.

In a close but rather slow game Wednesday night, the Freshmen defeated the Seniors. The game was marked throughout by
the close guarding of both teams. Although in the main the game was listlessly played, the players at times showed
flashes of real form. One of these periods came in the closing moments of play. With the count 24-14 against
them, the Seniors staged a rally that threatened to pull the game out of the fire. In the last five
minutes, the Seniors shot five field goals and a foul, while the Fresh were able to cage only two field
goals. But the whistle blew with the Fresh three points in the lead. In the last encounter between these two
quintettes, the game ended in a tie. In the play-off, the Fresh won by one point.

The work of Ormond, A. P., at forward, and Johnson were the redeeming features of the Seniors’ play. McConnell and
Palmer were the high point getters for the Fresh, each getting eight points.

Line-up:
Pitts (4) --------------- Ormond, A. P. (13)
Right Forward
Palmer (8) ------------- King
Left Forward
McConnell (8) ---------- Heizer (8)
Center
McDonald (6) ----------- Miley (4)
Right Guard
DeLorme (2) ------------ Johnson
Left Guard

Sophs 33; Seniors 24.

In a hard-fought game, marred by many fouls on both sides, the Sophs defeated the Seniors 33-24. In the first
half, the passing of both teams was off form, and that together with close guarding, kept the score down. This
half ended 9 to 8 in the Sophs’ favor. Ormond, A. P., showed up best for the Seniors. Besides making
10 points, he played a beautiful floor game. Six of his points were due to his uncanny ability to cage
free shots. He shot five straight, and after missing one by a hair’s breadth, he rang up another. For the
Sophs, the shooting of Brake and Mauze featured. Mauze played a consistent game throughout and collected 10 points. Brake, who
entered the game at the beginning of the second half, led his team in scoring by making 12 points. The
work of McLaurin at guard must not be overlooked. Time and again he broke up the Seniors’ passes and sent
the ball flying down the floor. Crawford played his usual splendid floor game. The game was hard-fought but was delayed
by the numerous fouls. The Sophs made seven and the Seniors six.

The line-up follows:
Sophs. Seniors.
Toney (2) -------------- Ormond, A. P. (10)
Right Forward
Bostick ---------------- King (6)
Left Forward
Mauze (10) ------------- Heizer (4)
Center
McLaurin -------------- Miley (4)
Right Guard
Crawford (9) ----------- Johnson
Left Guard

Time of quarters: 15, 20; referee: Coach Hengeveld.

Juniors 30; Fresh 13.

The Junior five won the last game of the series on Monday night, winning once more the class championship in
basketball. In the first half, the game was fast and hard-fought on both sides. The period ended with the tally
14 to 9 in favor of the Juniors. In the second half, the vanquished Freshmen seemed unable to work together.
They still fought gamely though vainly and they

New Central Hotel

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED

In the center of the theatre and shopping district. Thoroughly modern and up-to-date. They will look new.

Where Courtesy and Service is the motto.

The Ben Vonde Co.

Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte.

Frank Gregson, Mgr.

The best Dyers in the South.

Agency At the Powerhouse.

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK

“If you want it off, do not put it on.”

Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats—anything made of rubber. Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he
can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package by mail postpaid.

J. S. WINGO
Wholesale Accessories
Spartanburg, S. C.

OUR NEW HOME

Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte,
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent
