The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through
the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARIES are in use by business men, engineers, bankers, judges, architects, physicians, farmers, teachers, librarians, clergymen, by successful
men and women the world over. ARE YOU EQUIPPED TO WIN? The New International is an all-knowing teacher, a universal
question answerer. 400,000 Vocabulary Terms, 2700 Pages, 6000 Illustrations, Colored Plates, 30,000 Geographical Subjects, 12,000 Biographical Entries. Regular and India-Paper
Editions. Write for specimen Pages, Illustrations, etc., Free, also act of Pocket Maps if you name this paper.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers

If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT.

ORDERS SOLICITED AT THE COMMISSARY
16 Chambers

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 22, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

NOTHING SPECIAL SPECIAL. We wish to remind all contributors to this department (including A. G. Oltman) that we are running
a Peanut, not a Chestnut, Parcher. Why can’t someone endow a Janitorship?

Fresh Thompson, to Sergeant in Armory—“I want some chevrons.”
Sergeant, to Fresh Thompson in Armory—“What is your rank?”
Fresh Thompson—“Front.”

Absence card day was celebrated Monday by about 95 percent of the students (5 percent being off the hill for
the weekend). The color scheme was carried, or rather sent, out by Chalmers and Cummings in Postal Card White and
in the majority of the cases “Meet Committee” Blue.

Representative Honor Card as handed in by Senior Class: “Candidate for class basketball; tennis racket stringers club; chief fine-payer of
Phi society; attended “Y” (2 times); punctuality roll (for meeting absence committee); coal-stealers club (2 yrs); member of Fresh class
(1 yr.); rooter at football games; tank painters union; name in Peanut Parcher; guest of (dis)honor at student council meeting”
(2 times).

A most enjoyable meeting of the Senior class was held after chapel Monday morning. After a brief business meeting, which
consisted of trying to find out who had called the meeting, a delightful three-course luncheon was dished up by Miss
Alina Wilson and Mr. Fill Up Hart. John D. Wiley, Bob Allison and others present report a large time.

We've got a good one on Mr. Cassell, but it’s no use, since all this stuff has to go through
his hands and we have no desire for any of our efforts to “reach the waste basket.” (Apologies to Christian
Observer).

The crops in this section were visited by a refreshing rain last Friday. A. P. Ormand claims that last week’s
Peanut Parcher did not contain enough references to persons which dominated the convention on the Hill. A. P. Ormand attended
chapel Monday.

Alabama Club takes up practice of calling members by first names, but are dismayed when they are confronted by R.
T. L.’s trio and are unable to decide which one to use. A vote will be taken on the question
at the next meeting of the organization.

Most of Jim Boulware’s Davidsonian paper has disappeared but he doesn’t know it yet.

“Why should a fellow be crazy about a girl?”—Alabamian.
“Ain’t women good looking, though?”—Zeb Morris.

We know some fellows who pull mail every morning—around the first of the month.

Skeeter Meacham has a scheme to put the art stores out of business. He announces that he secures his pictures
by buying ten-cent sheet music and framing the covers. As Friend Wilson remarked, once upon a time, “You can't down
Brains.”

Weather Forecast: February 27, 28, 29 will be wet and rainy. Pay no attention to regular observer. The above forecast
is more reliable than even Old Blum’s Almanac.

More enjoyable receptions than that one held in the Library basement Monday afternoon have been attended by local society fiends.

Richards gave Eddy's test of a Christian’s character: (1) “Are you pure? (2) Are you honest?(3) Capt. C. K. Brown,
of the D. C. Engineers, surveyed Georgia’s front yard last week.

Probably being inspired by the aqueous rain which was operating without, Friday’s public speaking class with one accord rose to
“Sink or Swim.”

“To be taken only before meals,” read the directions. “Thank goodness they're not giving me anything to eat,” remarked the
patient.

A general epidemic of borrowing hit the Hill last Thursday and Friday. The photographer was here. Boney is reported to
have been seen beating it from Chambers to Georgia with a stiff collar but—we'll know if it’s true when the
Annuals get here.

“We haven't had a strike in this town yet,” boasted the Booster, but just then the clock contradicted him.

It’s all right to tell a girl she is interesting, but it is better to have never loved at all
than to inform a young lady that she is amusing.

THEY WIN IN A WALK

We have caught the stride with a heavy line of medium weight suits for young men built on the new
athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the pepper box—single or double breasted. Browns are the leaders, plain stripes
or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.

34 S. Tryon
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

In case you have been wondering about the lack of song in this issue of the paper. Then, Son, wander
right along.

DES MOINES DELEGATES
(Continued from page 1)

Besides these were the various prayer groups which met from time to time. On the first afternoon Mott and Speer
made the opening addresses of the convention. That night an illustrated lecture on the countries of the world was given
by Hill, and Sherwood Eddy spoke on the Near East. On the first morning session the time was given to
reviewing the religious agencies in America. That afternoon calls from the different races of the world were given and Dr.
Jas. I. Vance addressed the evening session. On the second day the various religions of the world were reviewed. Mott
told of the accomplishments and work of the Volunteer Movement. The evening service was addressed by Speer. On the third
day representatives of the volunteer unions of China, Japan, and Mexico were heard. On the fourth day Eddy gave a
stirring call for volunteers, and the speeches of J. R. Mott and R. E. Speer closed the convention. To Litzer
the spirit was that of prayer, and its watchword, “Pray as if everything depended upon God; work as if everything
depended upon you.”

Richards then gave his message from the conference. The thing that had impressed him most, he said, was the immensity
and challenge of the task of evangelizing the world. Over the platform hung the motto of the Volunteer Movement—“The Evangelization
of the World in This Generation.” But to show the greatness of this task, Richards gave a few illustrations. If
the hall at which the meetings of the convention were held, seating 10,000, were filled every day with 10,000 of
those who had not known the Gospel, it would take 365 years to seat them all. There are over 1,000,000,000
souls that have never heard of Christ. To take the Gospel to this immense number at the present is the
task of a force of 10,000 missionaries. If each of the missionaries were allowed one minute, added together, their time
would make about one week; while if each soul that has not heard the Gospel be allowed one minute, the
time, added together, would make about 2,000 years.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for your work. Give us a trial.

Inquiries solicited and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST.
PHONE 643
