The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through
the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Walker’s Drug Store
The Service Store
Tryon and Seventh Sts
Charlotte, N. C.

Here is your opportunity to insure against embarrassing errors in spelling, pronunciation, and poor choice of words. Know the meaning
of puzzling words and terms. Increase your efficiency, which results in power and success.

WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY is an all-knowing teacher, a universal question answerer, made to meet your needs. It is in
daily use by hundreds of thousands of successful men and women the world over. 400,000 Words. 2700 Illustrations, 22,000 Biographical
entries, 30,000 Geographical Subjects. GRAND PRIZE, (Highest Award) Panama-Pacific Exposition. REGULAR and INDIA-PAPER Editions. WRITE for Specimen Pages. FREE Pocket
Maps if you name this paper.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO., Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.

Brady Printing Co.
Statesville, N. C.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, BRADY IS THE MAN TO DO IT. ORDERS SOLICITED.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, January 29, 1920.

PEANUT PARCHER
T. H. SPENCE, Editor

Owing to a mistake, the name of Mr. I. I. Sutton was omitted from the list of additional reporters last
week. He should have been credited with the article on the new president of the Athletic Association.

Why do they call it ‘olea? I've wondered oft and long, but now I have concluded, ‘Tis ‘cause it is
so strong.

F. P. Hall (in Charlotte hotel): “Say waiter, bring me that soup in a hurry.”
Colored Gent: “I couldn't bring it in a hurry, mistah; I always brings it in a bowl.”

The poets who sang of “Those long winter nights” didn’t go to bed at 12 and have to get up
at 7:15 for Chapel.

Here is a story of a youth, ‘Tis tragic for to tell, (This rhyme may slightly shock you) But he
loved two girls quite well. And he was going splendidly, His cases going stronger, Until he mixed two letters up,
And now he goes no longer.

Shades of the Aqua Club appeared on the campus Monday afternoon. It is rumored that several new members were initiated
but details are absent.

The easiest way to make a boy mad is to contradict him; the infallible way to enrage a young lady
is to agree with her.

The best satisfied man on the Hill is the fellow who just read “One” on himself in the peanut parcher.
Of course he won't admit it, but just watch him smile when they think they are unnoticed and they see
themselves in print.

Jan. 20: Notorious Junior invests in plug of Brown’s Mule.
Jan. 21: Notorious Junior changes his boarding place (to Infirmary).

Fashionable French watering places (No fresh they ain't stock yards) issue waterproof newspapers to be read while patrons are taking
their morning dip. If this kind of a Davidsonian was published we might read it out of doors—even in the
rainy season.

“I cannot live without you” He heard the maiden say And like a fool believed it Departing on his way.
“I love you even more than life” That gallant knight replied The maiden then believed him— Not knowing how he
lied. And now they’re married happily—Not to each other though Forgetful of their former love For that was long ago.

Windy Aiken is a youth of rare judgement. He announces that last week's peanut parcher was the best ever. We
don’t know what he wants—yet.

D. L. Mahood announces that there is one man in the Soph class who can write poetry and modestly admits
that he is him.

Le Miserable: The Davidsonian staff man who by mistake sent a letter to his girl down to Charlotte in the
copy and saw it in the paper. (Note: L. G. Calhoun did not do this.)quite a while, dear, Thinking hard
as thou can be, And the thing I have been thinking, Was, would you ever write to me? Not that
I care so much, you see, But, I've got to have something to think about.

“Are you lost if you have to ask a policeman where you are?” Was the subject of a lively debate
between Freshes Wilkes and Wiley recently.

A good deal of involuntary skating took place here Monday. Among those participating in the sport were: Ox Harrell and
friends.

Local Nimrods, led by Ervin, L., went forth in search of the ferae naturae on Jan. 26. Ervin contends that
he would have killed a snowbird if his gun had not kicked with such great emphasis, and if he could
have found the bird.

Steam Engine Ratchford of Hell Alley says he can’t figure out why they don't import a silo to supply green
freshmen for this time of year.

Prominent Senior: “Say, fresh, what classes do you enjoy most?”
Flippant Fresh: “The ones I cut.”

It ain't we mind your coming, Since we sorter like you, snow, But what we hate like thunder, Is to
see you start to go.

Thanks to the possession of a map and compass the “Lost platoon” of yecampany was able to find its way
back to its proper place last Thursday.

Whoever stole the newspaper clippings from 32 Ga., last week is certainly the possessor of some interesting printed matter.

If the man who paraded all over the roof of Chambers Monday afternoon really wants to end it all we
have a razor, rope, pistol and several chemical combinations we would be pleased to furnish him with. (If he’s the
fellow we think he is.)

Judge Cooper, before whom the notorious Gunn case was argued, recently delivered a lecture in the Ku society on “The
Ins and Outs of criminal law.” This was heartily enjoyed by the large number of “Outs” present.

The basketball team certainly got a white send-off Monday morning.

Rules and Regulations. (As Found on Door of 18 Rumble.)
I. Come in and leave the door open: the cold air is good for our health.
II. Occupy our chairs, we stand up in order to grow tall.
III. Lie on our beds and use our pillows for foot-rests, women must live.
IV. Use our tobacco: we keep it for your use. Matches will be furnished on request.
V. The trash-basket is an ornament. Throw your trash on the floor. Feel entirely at home.
VI. Borrow our fountain pen, ink and paper. We never went to school and do not need them.
VII. By all means use our brushes and combs. Cultivate a neat appearance.
VIII. Hog our radiator. The heat is fine.
IX. Don’t hesitate to interrupt us when we are studying. Raise all the thunder (slight revision of the unrevised) you
want to. The professors will make due allowance.
X. Feel perfectly free to use anything we have. If we don’t happen to have what you want let us
know. The washer-

L. A. ELLIOTT
CANDIES FRUITS, ETC.
See me for your feeds
WE DELIVER THE BEST FRESH MEATS
Phone orders Solicited.

of medium weight suits for young men built on the new athletic measurements. Suits as full of pep as the
pepper box single or double breasted.

WHITE'S MARKET
Browns are the leaders, plain stripes or checks. Come in and you'll see we have done it brown.
Phone 25-W. Cornelius, N.C.

THEY WIN IN A WALK
We have caught the stride with a heavy line

FLOWERS
Louis G. Ratcliffe, Charlotte, N. C.
Flowers for all occasions at popular prices. Orders taken for delivery in any city in the United States.

DAVIDSON AGENCY
A.G. Oltman. Room No. 13 Watts, 34 S. Tryon CHARLOTTE, N.C.

WE print the Davidson College Magazine, the Davidsonian, and many other GOOD publications. The myriad of other good jobs we
print would fill this magazine to describe them---but we have room for your work. Give us a trial. Inquiries solicited
and prompt attention guaranteed.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
216 N. TRYON ST. PHONE 643
