4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Founded by Class of '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

HH. ABERNETHY................. Editor-in-Chief
S. B. CASSELL.................... Managing Editor
R. L. WARE, Jr.................. Assignment Editor
L. B. SCHENCK.................. Athletic Editor
J. C. MCCASKILL............... Alumni Editor
D. M. GILLAM.................... Exchange Editor
H. A. SHILL....................... Business Manager
T. H. SPENCER.................. Campus Editor
L. G. CALHOUN................. Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. L. WILSON.................... Assistant Editor
A. S. TON, Jr..................... Literary Editor
E. F. SWAIN...................... Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
D. L. MAHOOD
M. MITCHELL
W. P. CUMMING

Additional Reporters for this issue are:
King, A. D.; Mauze, G. W.; Ormand, A. P.; Fraser, F.; White, H.; Bailey, J. C.; McGuire, E. H.; Ogden, D. H.

BUSINESS STAFF
T. H. WILSON.................... Business Manager
L. L. MCALLISTER............. Assistant Manager
A. M. MITCHELL............... Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG....................... Assistant Manager

EDITORIAL

Welcome, Volunteers!

All the millionaires play golf. You better join the golf club and begin to qualify. We wonder if the enthusiasm of the Volunteers is all religious or whether the announcement about the seventy young ladies has anything to do with it.

If you have any spare time in the afternoons go down and take a slant at the baseball team. They look better than ever and it's going to take a mighty good nine to beat them.

Now that we’ve got the half million what’s going to be done with it?

Welcome, Volunteers!

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE.

For a place somewhat removed from a city or any center of activities, Davidson is unusually blessed each year with the presence of several distinguished and instructive visitors. Seldom, however, is the opportunity given of entertaining a large host of guests who bring with them some of the most interesting and helpful speakers that can be obtained anywhere. This conference which is to be held this week-end should mean a great deal to this college and the advantages which it offers should not be neglected.

First, it will bring us in contact with more than one hundred students from other institutions. The impressions which these delegates carry back with them can wield a most important influence on the general opinion of Davidson in the eyes of its rivals. They are the men and women who come in contact with those who are entering college next year and are in a position to give a high recommendation to Davidson, if their personal observation can justify it. Every effort should be made to cause their impression of the life and spirit on the campus to be a favorable one.

The second opportunity which we have is in personal inspiration which can be received through attendance at the meetings. No effort has been spared in getting the most capable leaders in the missionary work of our Southern Church. The meetings, especially the evening ones, are open to all and should contain a large representation from our student body.

The third advantage which can be derived from this gathering is the instilling of new life into our Volunteer Band. Several years ago we could boast of the largest student volunteers of any college our size, in the United States. Without some fear of exaggerating, this assertion can hardly be made at the present time. Missions and especially foreign missions are each year becoming more important as an influence in the world. At such a time our band should be growing, not shrinking. It is hoped and expected that this conference will revive our local band and help to put it in the place it formerly occupied.

It is our duty to make a great thing of this conference, both for the college and for our personal benefit. Make every delegate feel at home and go away with the belief that Davidson is the best college in the world next to their own Alma Mater. Without this exception, we believe it, and why shouldn't they believe it also?

ABSENCES.

Last week there were more than two hundred absence cards sent out. A large number of these had on them sufficient absences to put a man liable to faculty discipline. If this indifference continues on the part of the students there are some who will meet with more serious consequences than they seem to expect.

The absence committee has been very considerate this year and has been especially generous in regard to excuses. Instead of the appreciation which they should be accorded, the privileges have been abused to the point where some action is necessary. Chapel absences and class absences result more from habit than from anything else. The more classes are cut, the stronger the impulse to cut another. The later you sleep today, the later you will want to sleep tomorrow. If you forget that you are allowed any class cuts and chapel cuts it will be easier to be punctual and regular.

It is a nuisance and a source of worry to your parents to be constantly annoyed by letters from the faculty. Yet, whom have you to blame but yourself? The consequences are well known before your absences are accumulated. The rules of the committee are laid down and must be observed, and the sooner this is realized the better it will be.For all concerned. THE DAVIDSONIAN, March 11, 1920. 

Open Forum

MIXED UNIFORMS.

The Davidsonian does not seem to be able to put out an issue without an article about the R.O.T.C. being in the Forum. All of these articles have, however, overlooked an important consideration. That is the wearing of the uniform. The object of uniforms is unity and the assurance that all will be supplied with the necessary equipment for the military service. According to the law on the matter, no civilian shall wear any part of the military equipment. Hence, if a civilian wears the uniform, he is subject to punishment for an offense against the law of the land. If a soldier wears a partial uniform, he is likewise an offender. While we are on duty here in the R.O.T.C., we are soldiers; when we are off duty, we can be either soldiers or civilians, but we cannot be half-breeds. We should wear either all civilian or all military clothing. The clothing the government lets us use is not our property. It is merely a tool that the government lets us have to work with. The government is the boss; we are the laborers. If the work is to be done at all, it must be done as the boss says, and one of the conditions of the issue of clothing is that it shall be worn in a military manner. From this, we see that when we wear a mixed uniform, we are getting something for nothing, and that is dishonesty. Fellows, we do not only owe this to the government, but we owe it to the college. The inspector will be here this week, and his investigation will determine the place that Davidson will occupy in the standing of the colleges. It is just as easy to wear the whole uniform as to wear part of it. Why not stop the half-breeds? It is not a question as to the keeping or the stopping of the R.O.T.C. It is a question of whether we shall live up to our obligations while it is here.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

I BELIEVE IN FOREIGN MISSIONS—BECAUSE

1. The Old Testament prophets foretold the conquest of the whole world by Christ.
2. It was the kind of work the apostles did.
3. Every church in the world today is the result of such work.
4. The present-day opportunities are unprecedented for the spread of the Gospel.
5. The vast scope of the work is worthy of the Church of Jesus Christ.
6. All men are my brothers; and I am every man’s trustee.
7. Hundreds of our best young men and women are pleading for the chance to go.
8. Another century of progress like the last, and there will be witnesses everywhere.
9. We have the power, the wealth, and the manhood.
10. Home and Foreign Missions are the same work.
11. Jesus Christ explicitly commands it.—Ex.

“All owe the World for Talents, good or better; The Greatest Genius is the Greatest Debtor.” —Ex.

“It isn’t the labor we intend to do Or the labor we've just begun, That puts us right on the ledger sheet, It’s the work we've really DONE. Our credit is built on the things we do. Our debt on the things we shirk. The man who totals the biggest plus, Is the man who completes his work.”

AMERICA is fast becoming a pipe-smoking country. Every year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satisfaction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, more and more men are smoking WDC Pipes. It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process, makes WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been accomplished. Ask any good dealer.

Good intentions do not pay the bills It is easy enough to plan: To WISH is the play of the office boy, To DO is the job of a man.” —Selected.

“Candles do not lose any heat by lighting other candles.”

“This is the gospel of labor, Ring it, ye bells of the kirk The Lord of Love came down from above To dwell with the men who work.”

To be alive and young is heaven itself. Foreign Missions may fail if we fail in the place where God has placed us. We at home must see to it that our missionaries carry a wonderful message of Christian America.—Ex.

Missions—a synonym of the Gospel.

“Thou dost not dream what forces lie in thee. Vast and unfathomed as the deepest sea Thy silent mind o’er diamond caves may roll. Go seek them, and let pilot will control Those passions which thy favoring winds may be. No man can place a limit to thy Strength, Such triumphs as no mortal ever gained May yet be thine if thou wilt but believe In thy Creator and thyself. At length Some feet must tread all heights now unattained; Why not thine own? Go forth, achieve.” —Selected.

“The world stands out on either side, No wider than the heart is wide; Above the world is stretched the sky, No higher than the soul is high.”

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES