Alumn THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 15, 1920.

News

DEATH OF PROMINENT WILMINGTON PASTOR
Comes as Shock to Many Friends. Dr. A. D. McClure Unexpectedly Stricken—Student Body Extends Sympathy to His Family.

It was with very keen regret that the people of North Carolina learned of the death of Rev. A. D. McClure, D.D. This was especially true of the student body here, for Dr. McClure was the father of R. E. McClure, '20. Dr. McClure was pastor of the St. Andrews Presbyterian Church, of Wilmington, having served it devotedly since 1891. His work as chairman of the Associated Charities of Wilmington for the past 20 years is but one example of the many charitable activities of a life devoted to serving God by the uplift of his fellow man. Dr. McClure was well known and much loved throughout the state. At the time of his death, he was returning from holding a meeting at Mt. Olive, N.C. He had seemed in perfect health a short time before his death.

Resolutions of sympathy were drawn up by his fellow pastors in Wilmington expressive of the regret that the city feels in the loss of one who so ably and so faithfully gave himself to the service of every cause for the spiritual betterment of his fellow citizens.

Among the alumni that attended the State College-Davidson baseball game last Saturday were: Dr. J. P. Monroe, Charlotte; R. S. Cunningham, '19, Winnsboro, S. C.; Jno. L. Payne, '16, Washington, N. C.; Emery Flinn, '19, Atlanta, Ga.; Ted Cashion, '16, Gastonia; Dave Hall, '19, Belmont; “Pete” Perry, Charlotte.

Dr. John Whitehead, ‘75, has been ill for a week or more at his home in Salisbury, and his condition is such as to cause grave concern. Dr. Whitehead is the head of the Whitehead-Stokes Sanatorium and has been one of the leading physicians of the state for a number of years. He has been prominent in all councils pertaining to his profession, and no one has been more influential in preserving the best methods in the profession.

Mr. George E. Wilson, ’67, and for many years attorney for the Board of Trustees of the College, has been sick at his home in Charlotte for several weeks.

Mr. Edward Spratt, the father of F. R. Spratt, ex-’20 (now living in Akron, O.), was killed in an automobile collision in Charlotte last week. The father of John Wilson McNair, ex-’22, was killed in a like accident early in January.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, '05, has moved from Dillon to Hamer, S. C.

J. W. O'Connell, ex-’15, has been since his discharge from the service in March, 1919, recuperating at Asheville, N. C. He was disabled in service, and after his discharge conditions resulted which have made six months’ hospital treatment necessary, but he is now recovering.

Frank H. Baker, ’17, is with the Robert Packer Hospital, Sayre, Pa.

J. F. Nash, ’11, is practicing medicine at St. Pauls, S. C.

Joel M. Cloud, ex-'16, is with Furness, Withy and Company, Limited, Baltimore, large steamship owners and operators.

Now I lay me down to rest,
For tomorrow’s awful test.
If I should die before I wake,
Thank heaven, I'll have no more exams to take.
—Ex.

It must run in the family. The newly elected business manager for the Columbia Spectator is named Matthews.

Merle Baskerville, at Hampton-Sidney, Va.

MRS. GEORGE McRAE ROBSON
Has Rendered Noble Service to College—Popular Matron of the Infirmary Has Served Davidson for Twelve Years.

Mrs. A. B. Robson was born Alice. She received her college training at Stonewall Jackson College, Abingdon, Va., and there was awarded the A.B. degree. Her retreat for nursing was made at Retreat for the Sick, Norfolk, Va. Here she met Dr. George M. Robson, to whom she was married in 1897. In 1901 Dr. Robson died, leaving to the care of their mother the two young boys, George and Charles Robson. During the years 1902-1906 Mrs. Robson was in charge of the infirmary at Pantops Academy, Charlottesville, Va. After spending some time at home with her mother and in doing private nursing, Mrs. Robson came in 1908 to Davidson to give her sons their college education. Since this date, she has been in charge of the college infirmary, where she has done valuable and faithful service to the institution. During these years Mrs. Robson has been one of the truest of those who have served Davidson. The few days that she has missed from this term are the only ones that have found her absent from her post of duty. Those for whom she has cared, alone, can tell with how great an interest and concern she looks upon every man of the student body. The college as well as each one of the students owes to her a debt of gratitude which cannot easily be discharged.

A LITTLE INSIDE LIGHT ON OUR A. E. F. STUDENTS
F. S. Justus.

The Sixth company of the North Carolina National Guard, of which Justus was a member, was sent from Hendersonville, N. C., to Fort Caswell, near Wilmington, for training for overseas service. The outfit was there made Battery C of the Second Battalion, Trench Mortars, and was sent, in March of 1918, to Camp Mills, Long Island, and then to Boston. There they embarked on a transport, went to Halifax, met the convoy, and sailed for Liverpool. The battery was then taken to Langres, France, via Le Havre, for training in the French Mortar School. After two months at Langres, they spent three months at Vitrey, taking practice fire as reserves. The men went into action in the St. Mihiel sector in the latter part of September, remaining there until the armistice was signed. The battery was attached at times to the Fifth and at times to the Seventh divisions. The homeward trip was begun in March, 1919, and the outfit landed at Hoboken.About the middle of the month, the men were then sent to Camp Lee via Camp Upton, the majority being discharged about the 1st of April. Having made a success of army life, Justus decided to try that of the student, and accordingly entered Davidson College with the class of '23.

H. D. Murchison, '23, saw nine months’ service with the A. E. F. in France. He was attached to Motor Supply Train 427, Motor Truck Company 542. On the trip over, influenza raged on the transport, and 97 men "went west" and were buried at sea. Arriving in Brest, he was sent to a rest camp below the Pontanasian Barracks, which were built by Napoleon, and then to Nevers, France. From November 1918 until June 1919, he was stationed at Mars Hospital. During his service overseas, Murchison visited some interesting places in France, going as far south as the Swiss and Italian borders. He returned to the States, June 15, 1919, aboard the U. S. S. Texas, landing at Newport News 12 days later.

CAROLINA AND STATE COLLEGE
(Continued from page 2)

Three in front of his. Richards scored on Wrenn’s scratch to first. The box score:

Furman
BR H PO A E
Speer cf ------- 5 1 3 2 0 0
Carter, L. If ---- 5 0 0 2 0 0
Nixon 2b ------- 4 0 1 1 3 1
Cox rf ---------- 3 0 1 0 0 0
Rhame ss ------- 4 0 0 2 2 2
Owings c ------- 2 0 0 1 1 2
Nelson 3b ------- 2 0 0 1 0 0
Brasington ------ 2 0 0 1 0 0
Knight p -------- 4 0 1 0 3 0
Drummond c ---- 2 0 0 1 1 1
Carter, E. 3b ---- 2 0 0 1 0 0
Bradley 2b ------ 2 0 0 1 0 0
36 1 6 24 10 5

Davidson
AB R H PO A E
Cassell, F. ss ---- 4 1 1 0 1 0
Ratchford 2b ---- 4 1 1 1 0 0
Shepard If ------- 4 3 3 1 0 0
Richards cf ------ 4 2 2 3 0 0
Wrenn c --------- 3 0 0 0 0 0
Cassell, E. 3b ---- 2 3 0 1 3 0
Poe rf ----------- 4 0 0 0 0 0
McArn 1b -------- 4 1 1 10 1 0
Currie p --------- 2 0 0 5 0 0
32 8 9 27 10 4

Score by innings:
R. H. E.
Furman 100 000 000—1 6 5
Davidson 200 001 00*—8 9 4

Summary—Two-base hits, Cox, Richards; three-base hits, Richards; sacrifice hit, Currie; stolen bases, Speer, Nixon, Wrenn, Shepard 2; struck out, by Knight 2; by Currie 8; base on balls, off Knight 1; off Currie 2; hit batsmen, by Knight 1; wild pitches, by Knight 1; by Currie 2; left on bases, Furman 10; Davidson 4.

DIAMOND DUST
(Continued from page 2)

And the batter gets safe. Don’t get hot under the collar at the fielder. It's just a break in the game. He'll get it next time. The old Red and Black spirit was at top notch Saturday night on the train coming back to Jaybirdsville. WHY? Because the whole gang was there, and win or lose, whether the team brought the bacon home or not, we were proud of the clean fight they put up for the Old Alma Mater.

THE PEANUT PARCHER
(Continued from page 5)

This Week’s Bone.
Tom Spence (to friend on train as it pulls out of station)—“You leave, don’t never try to give your girl advice when she ain't asked for it. It won't work, Bo, it won't work. We are heartily in favor of givin’ women the vote, but not in favor of counting their ballots after they are cast.

Popping the Question.
I. Eat no garlic before calling—although strong men have a pull with the fair ones, you can overdo any good thing.
II. Don’t chew gum (or Climax)—besides detracting from your dignity the chin music might prove annoying.
III. Make sure none of her family are present—at a time like this they might prove slightly annoying.
IV. Turn the lights out, if possible—it would never do to lose heart at the crucial moment.
V. Work up to the subject gently—too sudden a shock might disturb the even tremor of her heart.
VI. Tell her that she is the most beautiful, the most lovely—you will not be held responsible for verbal errors on such an occasion.
VII. Clasping her paw in thine, tell her you wish to bestow upon her the honor of becoming dish-washer—make her think she is getting something.
VIII. Should she refuse, swear to kill yourself but don’t do it—you might later have regrets.
IX. Should she accept, as she most likely won’t, make the best of a bad situation—we all play the fool at times.

Knox and Barnette

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
UNIVERSITY, VA.
EDWIN A. ALDERMAN, D. D., President.

The following departments are represented:
The College.
The Department of Graduate Studies.
The Department of Law.
The Department of Medicine.
The Department of Engineering.
The Department of Education.
The Summer Session.

Free tuition to Virginia students in the Academic Departments. Loan funds available. All other expenses reduced to a minimum. For catalogue or information concerning the University of Virginia, address:
THE REGISTRAR.

Entire New Line of General Merchandise
Shoes, Hats & Gents’ Furnishings

PARKER “LUCKY CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS
FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A New Line of Schloss Bros. Clothing

Printed and Engraved Business Cards and Announcements.
We are the recognized Quality Printers of the CAROLINAS.
Queen City Printing Co.
14 E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists
We carry a complete line of up-to-date Stationery. Drink at our Sanitary Fountain. We want to serve you.
White Drug Company
The Rexall Store

CHARLOTTE

New Spring Suits
From the shops of “Society Brand”
Single and double-breasted Models, ready for your inspection.
Spring Shoes, Shirts, Furnishings, etc.
The new Straw Hats are here.
Tryon at 4th Street

Good as a new Frame and one coat of Re-Nu-Lac did the job. But not for Frames alone, for anything that needs re-use PEE GEE.
M. H. Goodrum & Co.