4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 7, 1928.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

E. CASSELL................. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS........... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND............. Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE.................. Assignment Editor
R. DOUBLES................. Athletic Editor
C. J. MATTHEWS.......... Alumni Editor
J. E. CASKIE................. Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE, JR......... Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP............... Campus Editor
J. W. ROBERTS............. Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL.................... Social Editor
J. G. GASTON, JR........... Literary Editor
R. McILWAINE.............. Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. N. BOOKER
W. P. CUMMING
R. T. L. LISTON
R. BITZER
C. E. CUNNINGHAM
M. W. DOGGETT
J. M. GILMER
J. W. PHILLIPS
A. C. SUMMERS
E. H. TUFTS

Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, I. A. Thames, J. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. R. Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
A. G. OLTMAN............... Business Manager
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY.................. Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
J. C. KING.................... Circulation Manager
H. LON
J. C. WOOL.................. Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

It is to be hoped that the rumor about our enlarged athletic field will have the beauty of the rainbow without its intangibility, and that it will materialize into a reality.

Have you started working on your part of the Five Hundred for next year? Right now is a good time to begin this splendid work for Old Davidson.

With teams representing her in intercollegiate football, baseball, basketball, track, tennis, and golf, Davidson’s curriculum in athletics seems to have about approached a high water mark.

No doubt the whole student body is intensely interested in the approaching debates with Randolph-Macon and Mercer, and we are looking with confidence to our debating teams to uphold the high reputation of Davidson in this phase of college activity. This is an important part of the work here, and should be given the full recognition that it deserves.

IT IS YOUR DUTY.

HAVE you ever remained for Commencement? If not, your presence is most earnestly sought this year. Forget that desire to get home in such a big rush, for three days won’t make any difference. Besides, after you get there you won't do a thing but rest, so why not get it right here on the campus. You will have a big time, for Commencement offers a good opportunity of chumming with all the fellows and meeting the alumni who are always here, not to say anything about the fair sex who are present here in the greatest number.

If you have ever stayed for Commencement you will instinctively know that there is something wrong in spite of the good time you are having. The trouble is easily detected, as it is due to the fact that so few students remain over for the final exercises. Other colleges force their students to remain, but this has never been the policy here, although the Trustees have considered such a thing. We believe it would be a good plan, but as it is not in vogue we can only urge the students to stay over this year anyhow. More alumni are expected than ever before, so we want to show our co-operation by being on hand. How about it? Let’s remain and make this commencement a fitting climax to the greatest year in the history of Davidson College.

HOW HAVE YOU SPENT IT?

NOW that the exam schedule has been printed, the fact is brought home to us very forcibly that this school year is rapidly drawing to a close, and with this being realized it would not be amiss for each individual to take stock of just what he has accomplished during the past nine months.

It goes without saying that every student came to Davidson with high ideals and the determination to get the best that this institution had to offer as well as give his best in return. So as you make this retrospective view ask yourself this question: “Have I made good?” To have done so, it is not necessary that you are an Honor Roll man or a star in athletics, but that you have spent your time in honest work and service. If the records do not answer in the affirmative, then we indeed sympathize with you. Yet do you deserve sympathy? Have you employed your time to the best advantage, or have you let trifles supplant the bigger and better things? Question yourself honestly, and if it is your fault, then in the remaining month of this session make a wholehearted effort to redeem those first promises made to yourself.

If on the other hand the records answer in the affirmative, you are to be congratulated, for without hard and tiresome work this could never have been accomplished. Yet do not be guilty of the complacent feeling of self-satisfaction, for there are perhaps a good many things that you can better and improve in many ways.

Thus to the one who has failed we would urge that he come back strong with renewed efforts in order to regain the lost ground, and to the one who has succeeded we would urge on to even greater achievements, which in each case will prove not only beneficial to the individual so doing, but also to all those with whom he comes in contact.

Open Forum

MORE ON THE POINT SYSTEM.

Several weeks ago there appeared in the Forum an article which advocated a change in the point system, and especially putting the R. O. T. C. commissioned offices on point basis with other collegiate activities. I heartily agree with Mr. “P. D. Q.,” but believe that the change should be carried farther. The purpose of the point system, as outlined in the above article, is “to make a division of the outside duties so that no man will have more work than he can successfully carry on, and at the same time give as many as possible an opportunity for an experience and training not provided for in the regular curriculum.” The constitution of the student body proved itself inadequate, and was revised; the point system is showing itself inadequate and should be revised.

Take the Band, for instance—the position of leader and of manager require much time and work, and of right should be given credit under the point system—say the leader of two points and the manager one point. The Glee Club leader should receive credit, too. The membership to the board of control of the Y. M. C. A. should count equal as the Y cabinet, for each alike has its work and responsibility. The board of control is a recent organization, being organized only last year, andhas charge of the financial end of the Y work. And the commissioned officers of the R. O. T. C. should certainly be under the point system. Those officers have much more work than what is required for the drill. Three points for the major, two for the captains, and one for the lieutenants and possibly the first sergeant will do lots to further the purpose of the point system.

D. P. X.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Another portrait which has been added to the library is that of First Lieutenant Charles Dodd Montgomery, '09. After graduating at Davidson he went to the Atlanta Law School, where he graduated in 1912. Lieutenant Montgomery was killed at the Bois de Foret on the Meuse-Argonne Front, on October 15, 1918.

Among books relating to the eastern situation (which is growing in importance to America) are the following, recently added:
- The Democratic Movement in Asia—Tyler Dennett.
- The New Map of Asia—Herbert Adams Gibbons.
- The Fight for the Republic in China—B. L. Putnam Weale.
- Contemporary Politics in the Far East—Hornbeck.
- The Awakening of Asia—H. M. Hyndman.
- Democracy and the Eastern Question—Thomas F. Millard.
- The International Relations of the Chinese Empire—H. B. Morse.

RUSSIAN SITUATION REVEALED IN INTERESTING NOVEL

On a list of the twenty best books to read, one of the first mentioned was “Anna Karenina,” by Tolstoi, which shows that to the thoughtful reader, some consideration should be taken of this great Russian writer. Not long ago a book by a Polish writer was reviewed. Now is a good time to make a comparison. Russia, a land of mystery and barbarism to the average reader, is shown in a delightful light so that one might well exclaim: “The world’s the same all over the globe!” To read a little of Russian literature should aid materially in destroying the idea that all of Russia is made up of that horrible giant, unshaven, dirty, with huge fur hat, sword in hand, and called “Russia” by American cartoonists. After all, that is where most of us get our impression of that great land over the seas.

Anna Karenina is the wife of a high official in the government. Her beauty attracts much attention and many are her devoted admirers. First among these is a handsome young officer, Count Vronsky. From the complex plots of family life, the master hand of Tolstoi draws the threads and weaves a story which has been declared great by the voice of public opinion.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

W. & L. Students and Faculty Do Manual Labor in Construction of Athletic Field.

The students and even the faculty of Washington and Lee University are daily working on their athletic field. The workers have been divided into two teams, the Whites and the Blues, and sharp competition is seen in removing the dirt from the field. Thus far 125 cubic yards of dirt has been removed—Ring Tum Phi.

Tech Rifle Team Wins Two Matches, Gets Ready for National Match.

The rifle team of Ga. Tech has defeated the teams of University of South Carolina and Wofford College. The South Carolina team was defeated by the score of 483 to 447. In the Wofford match, Tech scored 1,885 out of a possible 2,000 points, while Wofford was able to secure only 1,715. The team will probably begin practice with service rifles on the range at Fort McPherson in the near future, in order to prepare for the national match.—Technique.

College Men Assist the Railroads.

During the recent railroad strike, men from Princeton, Pennsylvania, Lafayette, and other colleges left their classes and boarded the big locomotives and went to work, firing and braking on the trains. “This opportunity,” says the Lafayette, “showed that college men are real red-blooded American men, with the vigor and stamina which has always characterized the American people.”

The faculty of Vanderbilt have passed a rule that absences immediately before or immediately after a holiday shall count double.—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Vanderbilt and the Fresh.

“Owing to the fact that the Fresh class has departed greatly from the ancient and honorable customs, and especially because a majority have failed noticeably to wear the green caps, immediate steps will be taken to suppress the Freshmen and to impress them with the fact that they are not yet in full charge of Vanderbilt.”—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Service and the College Student.

The recent Student Volunteer Conferences and other forces seem to have had a great effect upon the colleges throughout the country. The one thought that seems to be predominant is that of service. The exchanges this week are carrying appeals to the students to forget their selfishness and devote their lives to the service of Christ and humanity. The following selected verse printed in the editorial of the Orange and White, of the University of Tennessee, expresses the creed that U. T. wishes to adopt:

“I would be true, for there are those who trust me;
I would be pure, for there are those who care;
I would be strong, for there is much to suffer;
I would be brave, for there is much to dare.
I would be friend of all—the foe, the friendless;
I would be giving and forget the gift;
I would be humble for I know my weakness;
I would look up and laugh and love and lift.”

The editorial continues by saying that “The student who cannot lift for the true purpose of serving his University has no right to be numbered among that large number of loyal workers who are in the majority.”

THE PRICE OF SUCCESS
By Edgar A. Guest

If you haven't the patience to work and wait,
To build with precision and lay your brick straight;
If you haven't the courage to grin now and then
When the structure falls down, and to start in again,
Just remain where you are and be satisfied, too,
For the hazards out there will be too much for you.

If you can’t stand alone in the thick of the fight,
And persist in your course when you know you are right;
If you can’t keep your faith when it’s greeted with sneers,
And still go for the goal which but dimly appears,
Don’t leave the broad highway to carve out a new,
For the hardships out there will be too much for you.

If you can’t get along without flattery or praise,
And the comforts and joys of these wonderful days;
If you tire over quickly or cringe at a blow,
Or think it no use when your progress is slow;
If you’re one who must have everything his own way,
Then the price of success you're not willing to pay.

But if you will take all the fates have to give,
Stand hardships and setbacks, still glad that you live;
If you cling to your faith and keep plodding along
When disasters beset you and everything’s wrong;
If you're willing to battle and never give in,
Go after your dream, for in time you will win.

If you would know real smoke contentment,
a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco.
Then you'll know what a real French briar is, and what the
Demuth seasoning will do to make it break in sweet and mellow.
Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then pick yours.
Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES