REMEMBER THE CAMPAIGN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 15, 1920. No. 6

Annual Evangelistic Campaign to Begin Sunday

Dr. W. D. Weatherford to Conduct Services—“Jamie” Fowle to Lead Singing

Ralph Bingham Delights Davidson Students

Famous Humorist Makes Big Hit in First Lyceum Number

Mr. J. C. Hutto Lectures on Journalism

Prominent Newspaper Man Gives Valuable Suggestions to Davidsonian Reporters

CUMMINGS' CLASS

Last Wednesday, Jap Cummings met a squad of 16 fellows down on the mats in the gym to take up jiu-jitsu. His class meets three times a week for one month. Jap shows each fellow how to down another, or knock a knife out of a man's hand by taking these motions on the pupils. In one month’s time these 16 will be able to down any sixteen on the hill, says Jap Cummings. This exercise is not only wrestling, but exercise of all kinds.

SUBJECT SELECTED FOR JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE

On the night of October 26, the Juniors and Seniors in each Society will be heard waxing eloquent in the preliminaries for the much-coveted Debater’s Medal. The subject that has been selected is, “Resolved, that the Government of the United States should for twenty years prohibit the immigration of Japanese laborers into this country or any of its possessions.”

Wearn Field to be Scene of Battle Royal

Wildcats to Meet Wake Forest in Queen City—Close Contest Expected

Dr. Willis Duke Weatherford, of Nashville, Tenn., has been secured for the “Y” Evangelistic Services. It has been the custom of the Association to hold a series of evangelistic services each year. These services are conducted by the most prominent religious leaders. Last year the services were held by Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, of the First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, N. C., and the year preceding by Dr. Chas. F. Myers, of Greensboro, N. C. The Y. M. C. A. has been fortunate in securing such a man as Dr. Weatherford for the services this year. At present, Dr. Weatherford is president of the Southern College of Young Men's Christian Associations. Until about a year ago, before accepting his present position, Dr. Weatherford was International Student Secretary for Y.M.C.A. In this capacity, he served for about 18 years, working among the Southern colleges and universities. It was Dr. Weatherford who really organized the Student Associations in the South and founded the famous Blue Ridge Assembly grounds. Dr. Weatherford is an authority on the Negro Problem in the South and is chairman and executive secretary of the Southern Sociological Congress. He was born in Weatherford, Tex., and graduated with a B.S. degree from Weatherford College in 1895. He later received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Vanderbilt University. Dr. Weatherford is the author of the following books: “Introducing Men to Christ;” “Fundamental Religious Principles in Browning's Poetry;” “Negro Life in the South;” “Present Forces in Negro Progress,” and “Christian Life a Normal Experience.” Dr. Weatherford is intimately acquainted with college men and college conditions in the South. He is pre-eminently the friend of the college man and speaks in a direct, straightforward manner presenting the call of the Master. “Jamie” Fowle, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., will lead the singing.

Ralph Bingham, the King of American Funmakers, held the leading role in the initial performance of the College Lyceum Monday night, being the star in a company consisting of himself, his piano, and his violin. With the experience gained by seven thousand performances, it is little wonder that this famous humorist gripped and held the attention of his audience from beginning to end. From the moment Mr. Bingham bowed to his audience, nothing could check the laughter. Rambling jokes of the side-splitting variety started the program. After these numerous monologues, the piano was his next field of conquest. “There will be a hot time in the Old Town tonight” was rendered in every shape and form from the wedding march and jazz selection to the funeral march and offertory anthem. On the violin, Mr. Bingham was equally as good. The humorous trend immediately gave way to the classical meditation from Thais. The expression and feeling which the violinist used marked him as a true disciple of his art. “Listen to the Mocking Bird” (because it is so old it has whiskers) came next and by expert bowing many bird-like effects were produced which made the selection one of the most effective on the program. Dialect poetry by James Whitcomb Riley then took the floor and Mr. Bingham’s gestures and imitations of the Indiana farmers at a country store were ludicrous. The Indiana store gave way to Ralph Bingham’s popular record on the victrola: “Mrs. Rastus Johnson’s Wedding.” The original was even more popular than the record, if that could be possible. Two short songs registered as immediate hits, especially a little ditty of a ride in an English train. Could it be possible that the very soul of humor could be serious? It is actually the case. Mr. Bingham urged his audience against tolerating any seditious speech about our country and made an appeal for patriotism.

Jasper C. Hutto, city editor of The Charlotte News, spoke to The Davidsonian staff and other students interested in journalism, October 4, at the invitation of the Delta Pi Kappa Literary Fraternity. His talk was exceedingly practical and informal, touching on several phases of journalism. There are three fields of journalism: metropolitan, which includes the larger cities as New York, Boston, Chicago, and others; small town journalism, which includes towns of 25,000 to 50,000; and rural journalism, including towns of 25,000 and as far below as a city is able to support a paper. The three kinds of journalism are conservative or intellectual, which is that type of journalism which appeals to the intellect; sensational, that type which appeals to man through joint intellectual and emotional journalism; and yellow journalism, which is the lowest, debased and outlawed, a perverted sort of journalism. Mr. Hutto says that rural journalism is the field for college men because it is coming to the front. The basic reason for this is that the average young business man cannot get into the larger field on account of financial reasons. If you expect to enter the journalistic profession, go into the rural field, then plan second to begin to make your way toward this work. The best way is to go to a school of journalism, one year at the least. If this is not possible, connect yourself with some rural paper and plan your work. The best way to start your business is to secure a building in some central trading town.

Davidson Falls Before Tornado of Tech

Crippled Wildcats Unable to Withstand Terrific Attack of Yellow Jackets

The momentum that the Yellow Jackets gained in the first games of the season was not to be denied when they met the Davidson Wildcats, and they came out of the game with the lone end of a 46 to 0 score. Small consolation for the followers of the Red and Black may be gained from the fact that five of our regular men were out of the game. The Techites won the toss and chose to defend the north goal. The first quarter was the best quarter of the whole game. Both teams fought hard and Tech scored on an 85-yard stunt by Flowers which was fumbled behind the Davidson goal line. In the second and third quarters, the Golden Tornado was seen at its best when they amassed four touchdowns in each period. The last quarter was a battle of the whole. Tech added three extra points to her score by a field goal.

The Game in Detail.

Tech chose to receive and Shep-such as and kicked 45 yards to Staten who returned 18. Harlan hit left tackle for seven yards. Harlan fumbled and John Staton recovered the ball for a six-yard gain. McDonough gained three yards through center, then Harlan tore off nine yards over tackle. First down. Harlan bucked for a few more yards.

(Continued on page 8)

That uncertain team from Wake Forest will be Davidson’s opponents on the 16th. It is certain that the first game in Charlotte is to be a fight from the start and that the teams are quite evenly matched. Both squads have been over rather rough roads for the past three weeks. Their schedules called for their larger foes to fall three in a row and each had about the same reception. Carolina was about evenly played by Wake Forest in their game, while Davidson was having a little pastime with Washington and Lee. The same score of 6-0 was made in the two struggles. As to comparative scores, there is little to choose. In the Tech results, Wake Forest has the edge, but in those of W. & L., our team seems to be the better. Demonstration has shown that Davidson's line is there with the goods and that the backfield will deliver the goods when unhampered. If in condition and are permitted to play, they can wade through. Moore, Poe, and Cassell were sadly missing among the backs Saturday, while Schenck might have helped in the defense. The combination complete has the hopes of Davidson certainly, but further, it has all of their confidence.

Robenhorst is undoubtedly the outstanding star for Wake Forest. He was unable to play against W. & L., but must be counted on for excellent work against the Wildcats. His ability to tackle and to run with the ball is only equaled by his long will be present to asset in the series.

In prospect of the close contest in Charlotte, a huge crowd is expected to see the battle. The special train from Davidson will carry the confident support from here. Behind such a team they are certain of victory. Everyone pulls for a Wildcat triumph.

BUSINESS MANAGER RECEIVES PLEASANT SHOCK

Mr. J. S. Wingo, of Spartanburg, Upsets Tradition By Sending in Subscription and Signs Large Advertising Contract.

“It is always the unexpected that happens” and nothing was truer and more surprising to the business manager of the Davidsonian this summer when he mailed out 1,500 circular letters to the alumni asking for subscriptions and by chance, got the name of J. S. Wingo, of Spartanburg, S. C., who sent a subscription with his check for $2.00. This alone would have been a very surprising affair since Mr. Wingo was never a Davidson student; besides all that he lived way down in Spartanburg. The above was enough to shock the most brazen of all managers, namely the college publication manager, but imagine his utter

(Continued on page 8)