THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1920.

On the Gridiron

Once again Presbyterian College of S. C. completely set Davidson supporters down with a thud. Last year the Clinton lads invaded our territory and fought us to a scoreless tie. This year they routed us on their own grounds by a 7 to 0 score.

How is it that we go in and snatch victory from U. N. C. and the following week drop a game to a much smaller school? Of course, our backfield and one end were disqualified under S. I. A. A. rulings, but the scrub backfield has been going wild this year. A jinx somewhere.

What about these S. I. A. A. rulings? Why do we play teams under those conditions? Four of our games this year are with S. I. A. A. colleges, namely: Citadel, U. S. C., Presbyterian College of S. C., and Furman. Every time we play one of these institutions it means that if a man has transferred from some other college to Davidson, he cannot play on a Wildcat team that year.

Some college athletics are rotten, just like politics. Star performers are bribed and hired to come to a certain institution. To try to prevent this, the so-called S. I. A. A. rulings apply a clause to the above effect. Under it, the large universities are very little hampered, because the loss of a star or two is negligible among the many from which they pick their team. On the other hand, the very small institution has everything to gain and nothing to lose. A crack performer never switches to a small college and therefore the line-up of their team would not alter one particle. The college of a standard just between is the one which is hit worst. Men do transfer to colleges of this type every year. If the team loses their services, its possibilities are severely injured.

Now, the very fact that Davidson belongs to the latter class of colleges means that under S. I. A. A. rulings, each season finds some of our Varsity men ineligible. If these S. I. A. A. institutions wish to play a Davidson representative team, why don’t they play its regular Varsity team? If they want to stack up against its scrubs, then book games with the assistant managers. At a place like our own Alma Mater, where men come to win the honor of representing us on our teams, and play the game for the game itself and not for a salary, it is absurd for us to play our Varsity unless we play it intact.

How would a schedule including Georgia Tech, Washington and Lee, V. P. I., U. of Richmond, U. of N. C., U. of Va., Johns Hopkins, Maryland State, Navy, N. C. State, Wake Forest and other colleges in this area of the continent, look? Why not? We used to play them and they are types of colleges who want to play the strongest combinations we can put on the field. Then if we lose, they say the best team won, and likewise if they win, they can say we beat the regular Wildcat team and no one has a comeback. What about it? Will we continue to play half of our games hereafter, with a combination of Varsity and Scrub material, and say—“This is a Davidson team.” Will we?

Well anyway, we send our team to Furman next week to combat the Baptists under those conditions. Taking this into consideration and comparing the following scores, no doubt assures followers of the gridiron game, a fast and furious exhibition of the pastime Saturday.

Furman 21, Citadel 6.
Davidson 27, Citadel 13.
Neck and neck.
Furman 17, Wake Forest 0.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 7.
Offset by S. I. A. A. dope.

GOLF TOURNAMENT TO BE STAGED NEXT WEEK

Handicaps to be Discarded in This Year’s Contest.

Davidson is to have another golf tournament. During the week of December 5, the play will be held. The association has selected these days, 5, 6, 7, as the time for the annual affair. As before, this will give the players an opportunity to show their ability to play the game. Those who wish to enter the lists can register in No. 10, Georgia. The lists will be held open until the last of next week. This will give the entire student body an opportunity to sign up. Most of the old men are certain to enter and a good number of new men will make the field.

DAVIDSON AND FURMAN MEET IN LAST

Plans at Greenville, S. C. on Turkey Day the feathers will surely fly. Furman having had a very successful season, with victories over Elon, Erskine, Citadel, Wake Forest, Oglethorpe, Clemson and Wofford, will be out for one more scalp to successfully crown their schedule. However, the Wildcats are determined not to be easy victims even though handicapped by playing under S. I. A. A. rulings. The two teams’ schedules have crossed.Exceptionally strong one. Handicaps will not be given this year, so the man capable of making the lowest score is scheduled to win out. Working under this system will not affect the amount of interest that is being shown in the tournament. The course has been cleared up in many places, and the entire nine holes are to be ready for the rush of business due to take them Monday the fifth. The golf course is getting to be considered more or less commonplace by the gym students of Davidson. But there are so many new pleasures and excellent fun to be had out there, that the opportunity which it affords for wholesome recreation should not be forgotten.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS FORM SALESMAN’S CLUB
Modern Methods of Salesmanship to be Studied by Those Interested

The Salesmen’s Club, a new organization on the Hill, has recently been founded for the purpose of interesting the college men in modern methods of salesmanship. All Davidson men who have had any experience along this line gathered at a banquet Saturday, November 13, for forming such a club. The result was the organizing of the Salesmen’s Club. Officers were chosen and a committee appointed for drawing up a constitution. The following men were elected: A. D. King, president; S. M. Query, vice-president; and J. H. Davis, secretary and treasurer. The violet is the club’s flower, while gold and silver quite appropriately compose its colors. Their motto is short but to the point: “Courtesy Catches Customers.”

The banquet consisted of five courses and was one of the most sumptuous affairs staged in some time. Manning, Davis, and Morrison deserve the credit for making all arrangements for the feed. The Club plans to have meetings once a month, at which they will be addressed on subjects of salesmanship. These speakers will come from the faculty and prominent business men of the state. Three months of actual work as a salesman will be required for membership, and it is hoped that all eligible students will take advantage of the opportunities offered by joining the organization.

The Dear Girls.
Jennie—Dick didn’t blow his brains out when you rejected him. He came around and proposed to me.
Jeanette—Well, he must have gotten rid of them some other way, then.
—Stanford Chaparral.

And Both Are Fragile—
Love is like a photographic plate—it takes a dark room to develop it.
—The Bison, Okla.

Why is it that a girl will say, “Don't you dare to kiss me,” and when you inform her such a thought had not entered your head she will seem peeved?
—Kentucky Kernel.

Furman 21, Citadel 6.
Furman 17, Wake Forest 0.
Davidson 27, Citadel 13.
Davidson 27, Wake Forest 17.

These comparative scores give Furman the upper hand by a small margin. However, it is hoped that the Red and Black machine will have sufficiently recovered from the P. C. surprise to come out victors in their last game of the year and are doing some hard practicing with that in view. The men taking part in this game will probably be selected from the following lists:

For Furman: Bradley, Jeter, Langford, Hammett, Lance, McLeod, Carter, McManaway, Speer, Rhome, Waters, Carson, Poteat, and McCurry.
For Davidson: Faison, Hammett, Romefelt, Brady, La Far, Davis, Douglas, McFadden, W. Shepherd, Cassell, Dantzler, Sizer, Clary, Long, and Carter.

Both the Baptists and the Presbyterians have fought some hard battles and the bacon cannot be safely claimed until the last whistle has blown.

TOWN NEWS
Mrs. Fred Hay is visiting her mother, Mrs. Lola Johnson this week.
Misses McQueen and Finlayson, of Lumberton, N.C., have been the guests of Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson during the past week.
Mrs. I. M. Clift and Mrs. F. B. McGinniss of Wilmington, Delaware are the guests of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle.
Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle entertained Dr. Metcalf and several members of the faculty, Tuesday night after the address.
The Booklovers Club held its regular meeting at Mrs. Julia Johnson's last week. Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. Violet Currie rendered a very interesting program.

GAME OF THE SEASON
Scrap Expected on Thanksgiving Day in Greenville—Dope Does Not Favor Either.

When the Baptists meet the Presbyte-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Athletes know our place for the best grade of goods and reasonable prices. We sell and satisfy, and that is why we grow.

Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

PROGRAM
Academy
Direction Charles H. Shonland
ROLIN COMEDY
PATHE NEWS
MORIN Ventriloquist
CURTIS AND DUNN SISTERS Musical Comedy De Luxe
JAZZOLOGY Featuring Clara Ralph, George Raft, and Guy Dunbar’s Orchestra in “Tunes and Steps”
ANTHONY HUGHES AND OLLIE DEBROW “Two Dudes From Dixie”
THE WILHATS In their Comedy Oddity, “Krazy Kar”