10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1920.

R. O. T. C. NEWS.
(Continued from page 7)

Senior Division of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson College. The division is divided into two courses, viz: Basic
Course, which comprises the first two years in college, Freshmen and Sophomore years, with a period at a summer camp,
usually between the first and second years, which is not compulsory; and the Advanced Course, elective for those recommended for
further training by the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, concurred in by the President of the college. By a
recent ruling of the War Department, the Plattsburg Camp of 1918 will count as the summer camp for the Advanced
Course.

There are several men among the Seniors this year who will derive the benefits of the Commutation of rations which
is paid to all men who sign the contract at the beginning of their third year in R. O. T.
C. Upon signing the contract, the U. S. Government will pay all students money commutation of rations at a rate
fixed from time to time by the President of the U. S., which is 53 cents per day at present.
This is payable for the entire period from the date of signing of the contract less the time actually furnished
rations in kind while in camp. In the Advanced Camp, students are paid at the rate of $1.00 per day.
In addition to free medical attendance, board, lodging, and uniform clothing, they are paid mileage to and from camp at
the rate of 5 cents per mile and allowed $3.00 per day for commutation of subsistence while en route to
and from camp.

Upon the completion of the Advanced Course, the student is given a commission in the Officers Reserve Corps. Reserve officers
are subject to promotion just as are officers on the active list. In time of peace, no reserve officer can
be called to active duty for more than 15 days in a calendar year without his consent. In time of
war, a reserve officer is subject to call to active duty, with his consent. It is much better to enter
the army in time of emergency as a second lieutenant than as a private. With the consent of the reserve
officer, he may be placed on the active list as a temporary second lieutenant for six months training with some
regular army outfit, with pay at the rate of $100 per month and the allowances of a second lieutenant.

Headquarters, R. O. T. C.
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Sept. 13, 1920.

Training Circular No. 1.
The following system of inspections will be inaugurated effective from this date: 10 per cent of each company will stand
a competitive inspection the first month; 20 per cent the second month; 30 per cent the third month; and so
on until the last month when 100 per cent will be inspected.

We Want Your Account Regardless of its Size
DUNN, President.
H. ANDERSON, Vice-President.
C. F. JOHNSON, Vice President.
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

NONE TOO SMALL--NONE TOO LARGE
Commercial National Bank
Of Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, etc., over $1,000,000

Insurance Society of the U.S.
Sells all kinds of life insurance policies at lowest rates.
Total DISABILITY and Double Indemnity clauses make the protection complete. Service, Satisfaction, and Safety are the Equitable’s motto. Every young
man should have a life insurance policy. Uncle Sam’s advice is to take a $10,000 policy. How much have you
got?

W. S. RODDY & CO., Managers
J. P. QUARLES, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

JAN GARBER
Owner and Director

S. & W. CAFETERIA
Good Food Served Quickly at Very Moderate Prices
20 West Trade St.

THE GARBER-DAVIS
Celebrated Novelty Society Orchestras
PLAYING FOR DANCES, COLLEGE FRATERNITIES, and all SOCIAL FUNCTIONS
Headquarters
E. PAGE YARBROUGH
Business Manager
Charlotte, N. C.cent will stand the inspection instead of 90 per cent. The following points will be considered and given
weight as set opposite:

Personal appearance -------- 50
Equipment ------------------ 20

3. Each company will drill a competitive drill that same day, and will be credited as follows:
Company winning 1st place ---- 20
Company winning 2nd place ---- 15
Company winning 3rd place ---- 10
Company winning 4th place ---- 5

4. Each group standing the inspection set forth in paragraph 1, will be graded on physical set-up, and credited as
follows:
Company winning 1st place ---- 10
Company winning 2nd place ---- 8
Company winning 3rd place ---- 6
Company winning 4th place ---- 5

5. The company winning the highest score each month will be excused from one drill period each week during that
month, and will be designated as COLOR COMPANY for that month.

T. C. HEARN,
Captain, Infantry, U. S. A.
P.M. S. & T.

JUNIORS AND SENIORS, LOOK!
(Continued from page 4)

but will be furnished the ration in kind. While in camp you also receive pay at the rate of a
dollar a day. You are paid five cents per mile to and from camp for transportation, and have a liberal
allowance for meals en route. Everything at camp is free, and of the best. You have ample opportunity to kill
a big time—dances at the post, passes to town every night, if you want them, and numerous other things. The
work doesn’t kill you, by a long shot. Ask the men who have been there.

The training in the Advanced Course is superior to that of the Basic, taking in the fine points and also
the broader aspects of the game. You are certain of the chance to serve as an officer or non-com., performing
as many of the duties of a regular army officer or non-com. as can be arranged for. Space doesn’t permit
of going into a detailed account of the advantages, so think it out for yourself. Remember it is your duty
to do a little something for “these United States,” if you haven't already done it. And to join the Advanced
Course is just what the Government wants you to do.

After you complete your Advanced Course you may have a commission in the Officers Reserve Corps, if you have earned
it; and, of course, every man who can get a reserve commission should do so, and as quickly as possible.
Your commission is for five years, and you may be promoted in that time. But it will soon be too
late; so think now, and then act. Remember, the Government rates Davidson largely on the number of men in the
Advanced Course. Are you going to help raise the standard?

There is a lot of dope at headquarters; if you are interested, drop over and see it. Or have a
talk with some of the Advanced Course men. They can tell you a lot of good there is in it
for you.

C.R.

Somebody broke the record that came with Matthews' music box, and so the Commissary has discontinued its concerts until someone
goes to Charlotte to get a new one.

Sip Kuiken went down to Kansas City yesterday with a carload of hogs filled from this neighborhood. —Downs (Kan.) News.

What will make me flunk? You know the necessary percentages for school and what satisfaction it is to surpass them.
High Art Tailored-to-Measure Clothes from Strouse & Brothers, Inc. won’t let you flunk in your personal appearance. The percentage attained
is as close to perfection as human ingenuity can build anything individually.

Start Right, with your personal appearance in the passing list—have your Clothes tailored for YOU only by Macamac Company “At
the Powerhouse” Davidson, N. C.

Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

Radcliff’s Chautauqua Tickets on sale at the Powerhouse for the students
