THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 28, 1920

Who's What and Where Among the Alumni

REV. W. L. LINGLE, D.D. Moderator of the 1920 Assembly

DR. W. L. LINGLE HEADS SOUTHERN PRESBYTERIAN GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Old Davidson Man Accorded High Honor.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, '92, was elected moderator of the 60th general assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, at the beginning of their sessions in Charlotte last Friday. Dr. Lingle won on the fourth ballot, winning the decision over four other nominees for the highest honor the general assembly can bestow upon one of its members. Other nominees were Dr. Thornton Whaling, Rev. Geo. Summey, D.D., Dr. R. F. Campbell, and Dr. T. A. Wharton. Dr. Fraser is the retiring moderator and is also an old Davidson man.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

EX-GOVERNOR GLENN FOUND DEAD IN BED IN CANADA, SUNDAY, MAY 16

Ex-Governor R. B. Glenn of the class of was found dead in bed at the Royal Alexandria Hotel, Winnipeg, Canada. Death was due to heart disease. Governor Glenn had gone to Canada as a member of the International Boundary Commission. The funeral service was conducted in Winston-Salem at the Presbyterian Church by Dr. D. Clay Lilly, the pastor, and Dr. Neal Anderson. Governor Bickett, Secretary Lacy, and many other notables were present at the funeral. The death of Mr. Glenn came as a severe shock to his many friends throughout the state and the nation. He had been in ill health for some time, and a trained nurse who had been attending him for the past year was the only one present when death came. On two occasions within the last few years, he had been very close to death's door, his doctor having warned him of the danger of overexertion. While Governor of North Carolina, the Tar Heel state enjoyed one of the best administrations of its history. Davidson College numbers him among the first of its greatest alumni. The heart of the college goes out to the family in Winston-Salem, and we with them feel our loss keenly.

JOHN ALLEN THAMES HONORED.

John Allen Thames, '18, now a student at the Georgetown University Law School, Washington, D.C., was awarded the prize of $50 for being the best debater in the recent prize contest. The University weekly paper, in commenting on this, said that the prize was especially to be desired on account of the fact that so many competent debaters entered the contest each year.

CLASS OF '15 FULL OF “PEP.”

There were about 20 members of the class of 1915 present during commencement. They were meeting in their first annual meeting and were full of “pep.” Fifteen put out some fine men in the different branches of college activity. F. W. Price was the first editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian and associated himself efficiently with almost every organization not only in the college but the town, being principal of the City high school during his Senior year. “Pete” Crayton, our ex-coach, was one of the best athletes here during his stay. J. E. Harper was editor of the Magazine. The class as a whole is an excellent one, and their spirit and interest offer wonderful support to the college.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

CLASS OF '15 HOLDS FIRST REUNION IN PHI HALL

Sixteen Members and Mascot Were Present.

Following the traditions of achievement previously established by the class, the first reunion of the class of 1915 was held with an unusually large attendance and splendid spirit. The members of the class attending the reunion were:

U. S. Alexander, 10 West Hill St., Charlotte, N. C.
L. H. Anderson, Anderson, S. C.
E. Carter, Mt. Airy, N. C.
B. Crayton, Charlotte, N. C.
J. W. S. Gilchrist, Charlotte, N. C.
J. C. Harper, 61 W. 73rd St., New York City.
A. R. Howland, Ormewood Park, Atlanta, Ga.
Norman Johnson, Atlanta, Ga.
B. R. O’Neall, Box 309, Greenville, S. C.
R. K. Robinson, Charlotte, N. C., Route 7.
Harry Malloy, Jr., Laurinburg, N. C.
P. D. Patrick, Menlo, Ga.
F. W. Price, Hartford Theological Seminary, Conn.
Alfred Scarborough, Eastover, S. C.
M. G. Shirley, Honea Path, S. C.
R. M. Torrence, Charlotte, N. C.
Riggs McConnell, class mascot, Davidson, N. C.

Letters bearing greetings to the class and expressing regrets at being unable to attend the reunion in person were received from M. A. Boggs, A. H. Blanton, William Hollister, C. H. Rowan, J. E. Faw, W. D. Kerr, I. G. Stewart, G. W. Gignilliat. Informal meetings were held at the room on Tuesday, and on Tuesday afternoon the class were the guests of Master Riggs McConnell at his home. Here, at a formal meeting, the complete roll of class members was called, and all information available about each member was contributed. The alumni class officers were unanimously re-elected for the next five-year period, and Norman Johnson was elected as an additional vice-president. A picture of the members present at the reunion was taken. After enjoying refreshments served by Mrs. J. M. McConnell and Mrs. J. P. Williams, the class adjourned to attend the general reception of the faculty to the alumni, and later to the alumni banquet, where the class sat in a group. Among the many achievements of the class of 1915 while in college may be mentioned the founding of The Davidsonian. Every member of '15 present at the reunion left the campus with the determination to be present again five years hence at its tenth anniversary.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

ALUMNI QUITE IN EVIDENCE.

The following alumni were present to enjoy the good times of commencement:

Bachelor’s Club
Malcolm Shirley, '15.
Jim Cousar, '14.
James C. Harper, '15.
W. M. Currie, '19.
L. B. McKeithan, '19.
L. C. McCaskill, '19.
Fred Toms, ex-'21.
Norman Johnson, '14.

Alpha
Fred Wilson.
B. D. Heath.
James H. Carson.
John L. Payne.
Edwin Carter.
Horney Orr.
J. O. Sprunt.
A. C. Wood.
George S. Cravat.
W. W. Moore.
Wilson Casley.
Todd Misenheimer.

Beta Theta Pi
Louis Anderson.
Alfred Scarborough.
John D. Watt.
Channing Brown.
R. B. Richardson.
Eb Nesbit.
Stuart Gilchrist.
Brooks Peters.
Leconte Mackey.
Pete Crayton.
Joe Crayton.
Bonar White.
Belton O’Neall.
S. A. Robinson
Preston Andrews.
Dunlap Roddey.
Messrs. Mann, Abernathy, Stokes.

Kappa Sigma
A. W. McAlister.
E. R. Boney.
R. B. Walker.
Frank Crawford.
C. H. Wilson.
J. M. Black.
R. L. Black.
R. R. Clarke.
T. S. Reid.
H. M. Spann.
Harvey Johnson.
Mr. McKennon.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

ALUMNI RECEPTION VERY SUCCESSFUL

Library Beautifully Decorated for the Occasion.

The reception for the Alumni, Trustees, and visiting friends by the President and Faculty Tuesday afternoon was a delightful occasion. The Library was tastefully arranged and showed an even more wonderful exhibition of beauty, combined with neatness, than usual. Ice cream and cake were served and rapidly disappeared in spite of the cool weather. This reception furnished an admirable opportunity for the Alumni and others to meet together as they did in former days.

Devotional News

SAD FAREWELL

Has Served the Institution Faithfully During Last Eighteen Months.

Every Davidson man grieves at Bob Miles’ leaving Davidson. For a year and a half, he has been our Y. M. C. A.super-secretary. Coming just at the end of the S.A.T.C. in the fall of 1918, he has since that time endeared himself to every man on the campus. And as he goes to be assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, he takes with him the prayers of us all that his work there may be as happily successful as has been his service here. He leaves a hole that will be hard to fill. A devoted piety that goes all through his daily life is one of the reasons why Bob Miles has been so potent a power for good. Yet he is “hail fellow well met” with every man on the campus. His gift of being a friend is little short of marvelous. As the chief executive of religious work among the students, he has shown an efficiency far from ordinary; he has put a vivid life into the “Y” organization which it never had before. To every man on the campus, he has been a friend whose ready sympathy has been ever a source of help and comfort.

Davidson's first coach for basketball was Bob Miles. Always interested in athletics, an old basketball star, having been captain of the team, he took charge of basketball and did some splendid work, though lack of material was a great hindrance and prevented the successful season that would undoubtedly otherwise have resulted from his painstaking and skillful efforts. Regret at Bob Miles’ leaving is a feeling confined to a circle of his particular friends. This, however, simply means that every Davidson man is a friend of his. From a selfish standpoint, we view with the utmost regret his departure. But, great as his services here, we believe that he goes to a greater.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

EXCELLENT WORK OF “Y.” Put Sunday Schools and Bible Classes on Fine Basis Last Year. Also Secured Many Prominent Speakers.

The record of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. for the spring term of the year 1919-20 shows that the Association must redouble its efforts if it is to give in the way of regular work in Bible classes and Sunday Schools anything like as much as it has received in the way of inspiration from the messages that have been brought to it by others. During the twenty Sundays of the year, it has had eight messages by prominent ministers and missionaries; four talks by its own beloved general secretary; three addresses by members of the faculty; two meetings led by its members, one for the report of its delegates to the great Des Moines Volunteer Convention and one for the inauguration of its 1920-1921 officers; one wonderful Sunday with the State Volunteer Conference; and certainly its greatest meeting led by W.G. Summerville, '16, and J.L. Fowle, ’18 (both from Union Seminary) when at least a dozen fellows accepted the challenge of the Gospel ministry.

The Bible classes have meant a great deal to those who have taken an active interest in them. But the great shame of the year is that so few of the fellows have really gone to work, the average recorded attendance being only 27 percent of the student body. There is room for great improvement in the country Sunday school work, especially in the matter of regularity, though of course the influenza quarantine necessarily broke up the work to a certain extent. The average recorded attendance of regular members is 205. The “Y” has also done a fine social work through the recreation room and movies. Far greater than what has already been accomplished is the work which the Association has been prepared to do with the undivided attention of a permanent general secretary and the unqualified support of every member.

THE BEST PATH LEADS TO BLUE RIDGE Davidson Wants You to Take it

Fellows, don’t stop thinking about the Blue Ridge Conference, June 15, at Black Mountain. It is not too late yet to register, and Davidson should have its full quota. If you decide to go, after reaching home, write Mr. Miles here at Davidson. Talk it over with your parents. Those ten days at Blue Ridge will be the best you have ever spent. It is a duty to yourself to go there, for the high ideal it will set before you. It is a duty to the other fellows around you, for it will better enable you to serve humanity. Don’t forget Blue Ridge!

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

SENIORS PRESENT COLLEGE WITH SUN-DIAL Class Day Exercises Held in Front of Library.

On Monday afternoon, the twenty-fourth of May, the Senior class, amid the loud reports of pistols and amid the music furnished by the Davidson Band, marched from beneath the shadows of Shearer Hall for their Class Day Exercises. The line of fifty Seniors wearing caps and gowns and led by the president of the class, W.F. Hall, and the little curly-haired mascot, Frank Jackson, Jr., who also wore a tiny cap and gown, marched over to the flagpole and formed a large circle about it while a huge white banner bearing the numerals 1920 was hoisted. The line then proceeded to the Library and the Seniors seated themselves on the steps facing the audience who stood on the grass directly in front.

After a few opening remarks by W.F. Hall, the Salutatorian of the class, W.B. Sullivan, was announced. He made an excellent speech of invitation and welcome to the visitors. This was followed by the class history by the historian, T.H. Spence. He followed up in a delightfully humorous way the four years of college life, even to the midnight raids on Dr. Harding's strawberry patch, and ended up with the prophecy, “Look out old world after next Wednesday.” H.C. Hamilton then recited the class poem which was followed by the class oration by C.A. McGirt. McGirt well upheld the honor bestowed on him of class orator. The sundial, the class gift, was then presented by R.T.L. Liston with appropriate words, hoping that the future classes of Davidson would have many hours filled with sunshine and happiness. The Book of the Classes containing the autograph of each Senior was then presented to the Junior class by the president of the Senior class, and J.R. Boulware on behalf of the junior class accepted it with a brief word of thanks. R.R. Craig then made the Salutatory address. He expressed the class’s deep appreciation to the Faculty for their ceaseless efforts and hoped that the future students would ever keep before them the old Davidson spirit. W.F. Hall then made a few remarks expressing the class’s appreciation of the good attendance and the Class Day Exercises of the class of ’20 were brought to a close.

LITERARY (Continued from page 6)

All contributions to the annual are requested to be turned in or discussed with the Editor-in-Chief. All contributions will be welcomed, for it is planned to make the 1921 Quips and Cranks “the best one ever.”