> DAVIDSONIAN FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1 "The Livest Wire on the Hill" Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. 

J. ----.---- Editor-in-Chief  
J. M. _ ------------ Managing Editor  
A. P. ORMOND ------------------------------ Assistant Managing Editor  
J. P. PRICE ---------------------------- Assignment Editor  
M. R. DOUBLES ----------------------------- Athletic Editor  
C. J. MATTHEWS ----------------------------- Alumni Editor  
J. C. McCASKILL  
R. BOULWARE, JR.  
J. M. DUNLAP  
D. W. ROBERTS ----------------------------- Y. M. C. A. Editor  
H. A. HILL ----------------------------- Social Editor  
M. GASTON, JR. ----------------------------- Literary Editor  
R. McILWAINE ----------------------------- Official Photographer  
BAILEY, J. C. BITZER, R. RAY B.  
L. J. COOPER, W. J. CUMMING, W. P. DAVIDSON, R. F.  
Additional Reporters: J. H. Davis, G. W. Mauze, H. H. Smith, E. Fewell, J. A. Thames, R. F. Davidson, C. D. Tuller, W. J. Cooper, M. P. Calhoun, J. T. Wilkes, D. H. Ogden, T. L. Frazer, P. Brown, C. Green, W. T. Elliott, H. M. Morris, A. D. King, C. G. Long, A. C. Ormond, S. H. Denny, J. F. Clark. 

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:  
A. G. OLTMAN ----------------------------- Business Manager  
E. A. NASH ----------------------------- Assistant Managers  
J. S. CURRY  

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:  
S. WOOL ----------------------------- Circulation Manager  
_ ----------------------------- Assistant Manager  

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL  
A happy and prosperous vacation to everyone! May the kind hand of Providence be ever near the newly graduated to guide and prosper them in their various walks of life. Did you let the past session get away before you made your start? If so, be sure to get the jump on the gun next fall. Where are the Annuals? We are hoping that just once before the Millennium the almost impossible will happen in the way of this publication coming out on time. The same old Commencement! Those who remained had a pleasant time, but there was something missing. Was that something YOU? Remember four hundred and fifty students must be here this fall. Get your man now. While on the face of things our debating season was poor, yet all our opponents write glowingly of our representatives putting up plucky fights. Better luck next session! Since golf players are now to be given the "D," why doesn’t some refractory member of Davidson College advocate the same reward for horse-shoe and croquet players, not to mention the "bull artists?"

The closing of this session has brought to an end many happy and delightful things, but there is none which the student body regrets so much as the departure of our "Y" Secretary, Bob Miles, and his wife. During his stay of about 18 months which seems all too short he has won for himself a place in the hearts of all the students that is truly to be prized. Returning to his Alma Mater just after the close of the war when things were in such a chaotic state at college as elsewhere, Mr. Miles has played a big part in holding the student body steady and true in this crisis. Truly it can be said that he was a friend to every student. His Christian presence had grown to be almost an essential part of our campus life, and his cheerful smile and greetings something that made the day seem all the brighter. They came to us as strangers, but they have gone as dear friends who have always had the best interest of the students and college at heart. They will be sorely missed, and all we can do is to wish for them an even greater success in their new work than has rewarded them here.

A FAREWELL TO A FRIEND.  
TO ANOTHER DEPARTING WE BID GOOD-BYE. Davidson this spring as to her losing some of her best men. Just before the closing of school came the word that Captain Mueller had been ordered to Fort Oglethorpe and that he would not return this fall. It is useless to say that every Davidson man will extremely regret this loss. "It never rains but it pours," can most appropriately be said. Due to our being a non-military school, not just any officer could adjust himself to the customs of this institution, but in Captain Mueller there was found the Davidson ideal. A man effervescing with energy, full of consideration for the students and an initiator in many progressive movements, he could not help but gain for himself the admiration, good-will and friendship of the whole college. In his going we are losing a progressive friend of the school and one whose place will be hard to fill. In parting we extend to Captain Mueller and his esteemed wife our sincerest regrets that they will not be with us this fall, and wish for them a successful and pleasant stay at their new post.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 28, 1920.

Y. M. C. A. RECEPTION.  
Open Forum  
Every year there is appointed by the President of the Y. M. C. A. a reception committee. The work of this committee is primarily to meet the new men at the train, and to assist them in being matriculated. The reception committee wishes to extend to every new student a hearty reception. But heretofore it seems that all the old men except those on the committee and a very, very few others, do not feel the responsibility of the new men coming in. Most everyone on the hill goes down to meet every train coming in the first few days. It is great to see the old men back, and we should give them a warm reception; but let’s not forget the lonely Freshman standing over there on the side of the road by himself. Or that one who for the first time in his life has come to see a college campus. Every old man on the hill should feel it his personal duty to meet the new men at the train and make them feel the good old Davidson spirit the first time they put a foot on our territory. They have chosen to come to us in preference to other institutions for various reasons and let’s show them they have made the right decision by coming. Not only at the train should we give them a hearty reception, but when we see them on the campus, let’s give them a cordial "Hello," and make them feel they are welcome. As a rule the rising Sophomore class is just coming into its own and the reaction caused from the change is not always what it should be. When we look back to our first few days on the hill we remember more vividly and with great favor the first man who gave us a warm hand. Let’s be the first to let the new incoming men know what we are here for and what we expect him to be by starting off right. The fellow who can’t see anybody but an old "buddy" when the term begins to open hasn’t the spirit in keeping with Davidson, and he doesn’t rightfully deserve a place among us. We are making a special appeal to you old men to hurry back a day early or when you do get here to give the new man a cordial reception. The regular formal re-A reception will be given at the beginning of the term and we are going to start the “new year” out right. Be a Davidson Booster This Summer 1922. The “blanket fee” this year will cover horseshoe pitching and croquet. College letters are to be given to the champions in ping-pong and mumble-peg. 

Read the exchanges in the “Y” Room.

MAINE STUDENTS GET BEHIND HOOVER.

Hoover sentiment at the University of Maine came to the front last Tuesday in the formation of the University of Maine Hoover Club. The club was formed for the purpose of crystallizing sentiment favoring Mr. Hoover's candidacy among the students and the faculty of the University. The club has received the official sanction of the National Hoover Republican Club Headquarters in New York City, who realize the vital necessity of organizing the overwhelming popular demand for Mr. Hoover in such a manner to impress the National Republican Convention next June—The Maine Campus.

PLAY THE GAME.

If you're feeling disgusted and downcast and blue
Keep a smile on your face just the same;
Forget all the trouble that’s worrying you,
Play the game.

If you think you’ve done wrong, then it’s right up to you
To shoulder and take all the blame,
Don’t give up! Be a man! There’s just one thing to do:
Play the game.

If you’ve made a mistake, keep a stiff upper lip,
Don’t let your head droop with shame;
If you flunked Life’s big Quiz, just buck up! Take your zip!
Play the game!

COLLEGE RINGS HERE! NOTE JUNIOR DIGNITY.

There was joy at the N. C. College, rings had come. Now they came to the Juniors that the college rings had come. The Juniors have cast off their frivolous, light-hearted ways and have taken on those more stately and dignified.—Carolinian.

Where are the D. C. rings?

CHAPEL FOR MAINE SPIRIT

If there is any one place, any definite spot which could be called the birthplace of the real Maine spirit, then surely it must be the chapel. It is the forum of our school. Here takes place the intermingling of the members of every class, fraternity, and dormitory. It is a common shrine, this chapel of ours, a meeting place where the everyday occurrences are talked over, new ideas brought up, and the real family affairs discussed—The Maine Campus.

WHY THE LACK OF CO-OPERATION?

Every now and then in the course of human events things occur that cannot be understood. It is upon one of these occurrences that our hardihood prompts us to write because we believe that our stand is justified. Six years ago when The Davidsonian was begun the faculty saw fit to place a dollar charge in the Blanket Fee to cover the cost of the same. Since that time the paper has grown from a sixteen-column publication to one of forty or fifty, and in spite of this fourfold increase in size the faculty has deemed it wise this year to grant a one-fourth increase in the Blanket Fee when we asked for a hundred percent. If to judge just by the increased size of the paper, not taking into consideration the advance in the cost of paper and printing in the last six years, it is perfectly clear that a four hundred percent increase could have justly been asked. We cannot think otherwise but that the faculty has acted too hastily in this matter. We have worked during the past year to make The Davidsonian a leading college publication and in accomplishing this goal we have given to Davidson College the best means of advertisement ever placed at her disposal absolutely free of charge. We have not broken even on the year from a financial standpoint, and the only panacea for this is more income. It will be impossible to increase the number of ads, for we have too many already, so the only thing to do is to ask for an increase in the Blanket Fee. Golf, played by only a few, gets seventy-five cents increase; The Davidsonian, read by every student, gets twenty-five. Wherein is it just? The students would willingly pay this additional charge if given the chance, but they will not have the opportunity. Why, we fail to understand.

Two courses are left open to us. One is to let the paper drop back into its old rut of undeveloped power, or on the other hand to strive by the means at our disposal to maintain the high standard attained this year and even to push on further. We could be rank quitters, knockers, instead of boosters, but our love for the old college is so great that we will take the latter alternative in spite of the apparent lack of cooperation from our superiors.

GRAND AND GLORIOUS FEELING.

When you cut class and the professor fails to call the roll.
When you find a letter from “her” instead of cobwebs in your box.
When spiders get stung by jackets.
When you find a dime in last year's white ducks.
When your calico writes she will be here for finals.
When the check rolls in.
When Mr. Dolly puts off a snap.
When something besides hash is served at the mess hall.
When hot water runs at 5 p.m.—Yellow Jacket Weekly.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

Coach—Why don’t you play baseball?
Conscientious Objector—Because you might want me to steal a base and I am no thief—Pickled Peppers.

“The man who learns most begins at the bottom.”
“How about the fellow who is learning to swim?”—The Emory Wheel.

Just as the minister’s daughter comes into the church with her new sport, the pastor takes his text: “My daughter hath a devil.”—The Blue Stocking.

I passed her yesterday morning;
Somehow it made my heart beat faster;
I was filled with a new sensation
Of Joy, of Ambition, of Power,
Dame fortune smiled upon me
For I passed her again
This morning:
Again that same thrill—
I was happy all day
I know not why,
Tonight I ponder:
Was it Fate
Was it Luck?
Will I pass her again?
I doubt it:
—I never passed three quizzes in succession—The Technique.

Be a Davidson Booster This Summer

SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE BEING HELD FOR FIRST TIME

For the first time in the history of football at the University of Maine we are holding spring training. It was the opinion of Coaches Rider and Baldwin that fundamentals of football should receive more attention than it was possible to give the time to last fall, as fundamentals form the basis of a good team. Owing to the short period of practice each night, during the football season, due to the fact that students get out of class so late, it is impossible to teach fundamentals as thoroughly as should be, and more time has been necessarily put upon team play—The Maine Campus.

The college paper is a great invention—
The school gets all the fame,
The printer gets all the money,
The editor gets all the blame.
—The Red and Black.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY TO START CO-OP PLAN

Prof. Lytle, Formerly of Tech, Asked to Organize.

Harvard University has investigated the co-operative plan of engineering education, and will put it in operation the coming school year. It will be of interest to friends of Prof. C. W. Lytle, our former coordinator, to know that Harvard has requested him to obtain a leave of absence from the Atlas Underwear Company, where he is employed, long enough to organize and put the course in operation in that college.