THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 1, 1920

Lecture Delivered by Dr. Devine

Eminent Social Scientist Discusses the Three “Rs”

Dr. Lingle presented Dr. Devine to the audience as a “statesman and humanitarian,” and his lecture bore out well the
statement. Dr. Devine announced that he would discuss “Revolution, Reaction, and Reconstruction.”

He first spoke of revolution, characterizing it as a disease more serious than any scourge that has ever crippled or
destroyed the bodies of men. He said that revolution may be just and righteous; and that it may often be
viewed with respect after it has attained its object; but that a revolutionary lack of respect for the constituted authority
of a settled government is dangerous. He stated that Burke’s “Reflections on the French Revolution” was aimed to inculcate the
proper respect for authority. He assigned as the principal reasons for the present universal unrest an instability due to the
war, the example of recent revolutions, the unequal division of wealth, and a disappointment at the failure of the dreams
of freedom.

Edward T. Devine.

The speaker next touched upon the subject of reaction. He mentioned the need to reconcile dynamic energy with the preservation
of what is good.

Reconstruction was then characterized as being as radical as revolution, yet retaining the stability not to accept a thing merely
because it is new. Dr. Devine said that we need a national health program and national legislation for health; that
we need better educational facilities; that we must raise the standards of living of the laboring classes. He said that
men were individually responsible for their actions; that every citizen must discharge his duty fully.

The large attendance was a sufficient testimony of the willingness of the students to support the faculty in the effort
to have lectures on the Hill as in days of yore. The clear and incisive lucidity with which the subject
was treated was a source of very genuine satisfaction to all present.

RECEPTION FOR DR. DEVINE

Immediately after the fine talk of Dr. Devine on last Thursday evening, a reception was given in his honor at
the home of Dr. T. W. Lingle for the faculty and representative leaders of the student body. After hearing the
talk of one of America’s great men, it was indeed a great pleasure to have a personal talk with him,
and this privilege every one present had. We are sure that Dr. Devine enjoyed his stay with the Davidson students,
and in his talk he spoke of them as being a fine group of young men, so that he must
have gotten a good impression of us.

As Dr. Lingle so aptly put it, he wanted Dr. Devine to meet the leaders of Davidson in order that
he might form his opinion about us and take it back with him. Those present were as follows: Misses Mary
and Lizzie Young, Miss Hattie Thompson, Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle, Dr. and Mrs. Richards, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell,
Dr. Harding, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. L. Douglas, Professor Wood. The students present were as follows: C. J. Matthews,
D. M. Chalmers, H. S. Askew, J. W. Witherspoon, Lacy McAlister, L. G. Calhoun, P. Good, and O. P. Hart.

The punch, cake, and candy which Mrs. Lingle so generously served were much appreciated by all. Dr. Devine mentioned that
this is a fault quite characteristic of our time—to fear anything new. He mentioned the statement of a United States
senator, “This is no time for new ideas,” as an example of blind and selfish reaction. “We must not refuse
a thing,” said he, “because it is new, nor hold to another because it is old.” We must respect the
old things that are worthy, but must accept the new ideas that prove valuable.must A FULL LINE OF PARKER'S “LUCKY
CURVE” FOUNTAIN PENS FOUNTAIN PENS REPAIRED W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C. The HOOVER & SMITH COMPANY OFFICIAL FRATERNITY
JEWELERS 661 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Booe’s Market Fresh Meats At All Times. He said it has made a lasting
impression on the students who were present. ATTENDANCE AT BIBLE CLASSES JUST FAIR Present. Pct., East Side Rumple 9 53%
West Side Rumple 14 66% Total 33 59% First Floor Watts 13 81% Second Floor Watts 9 60% Third Floor
Watts 18 90% Total 40 77% First Floor Georgia 12 60% Third Floor Georgia 8 40% Total 20 50% Chambers,
North Wing— First Floor 10 72% Second Floor 10 71% Third Floor 14 66% Total 34 69% Chambers, South Wing—
First Floor 6 33% Second Floor 9 50% Third Floor 14 66% Total 29 49% Sunday Schools School. Teachers. Pupils.
Caldwell 6 30 Cornelius 4 33 Shearer’s 8 50 The campus looks like a futurist impression of spring. See Oltman,
13 Watts about that Easter Corsage for Her All Kinds All Prices RATCLIFF’S FLOWER SHOP with the R. O. T.
C. his home in Australia. HUNTERSVILLE BIG SUCCESS Large Audience Greets Men. Concert Full of Davidson Pep. Credit Due Mr.
Freeman. The Band under the leadership of Mr. D. R. Freeman gave their first public concert off the Hill Saturday
evening before a large audience in the Huntersville Public School auditorium at Huntersville, N. C. The program was opened with
a lively, popular air, rendered in professional style. This won the applause of the audience. During the intermission, Messrs. Cathey
and Shields entertained the audience “while the band rested their lips,” as Mr. Cathey put it, with comic songs, and
piano selections by Mr. Shields. The second part of the program was rendered equally as well as the first, each
number receiving thunderous applause. The program was closed with “O Davidson,” the band standing while they played. Much credit is
due Mr. Freeman for his untiring effort to get the band in shape for concert work this year and the
Davidson student body is to be congratulated on having such an efficient man numbered among them. At a recent meeting
of the band, officers were elected as follows: Mr. B. E. Shields, manager; Mr. C. A. Dunn, assistant manager, and
Mr. D. R. Freeman, director. Sergeant O’Connell, one of the regular army men stationed here with the R. O. T.
C. unit, received his discharge last week and left for his home in Australia. Sergeant O'Connell served three years in
the Australian navy before signing up with Uncle Sam. A better walk from Eu Hall to Morrison is badly needed.
Why? Ask any man who tried it Sunday. DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories THE KEENEST PALATE
CANNOT DETECT “THE DIFFERENCE” MINNEHAHA (Light) PALE and SPECIAL (Dark) Is NOT a “near beer” that ferments AFTER drinking, but
a thoroughly fermented LAGERED BREW aged in the vats four months; made from barley and hops ONLY, just like the
brews of forty years ago; but afterward by our new Patent Vacuum Process First operated Nov. 5, 1919, by us.
(Instead of COOKING by BOILING), the high wines ONLY are removed, and not one atom of brewing flavor, snap or
aroma taken out: hence it is delightfully EXHILARATING SUPPLY YOURSELF WITH MINNEHAHA WITHOUT DELAY, GOLDEN GRAIN JUICE COMPANY Minneapolis, U.
S. A. We ship to any part of the U. S. THE SNAPPY LIME DRINK For “it's always fair weather
when good fellows get together”— with Green River. —a different drink, of distinctive flavor—cooling, sparkling—it pleases and satisfies. SCHOENHOFEN COMPANY
CHICAGO At all soda fountains and in bottles © 1920 S. Co.
