Mrs. Worth and her daughters, Frances and Kathryn, will spend the winter in Boston, Mass.

FALL SPORTS
A.G. Spalding & Bros. carry a complete line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding
trademark, you cannot question the judgment of those who win with them. The Spalding trademark is a guarantee of quality
and satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.
A.G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY
Save those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

See Us
For your events. We carry a full line of Stationery, Huyler’s Candy, Waterman’s Fountain Pens. Agents for Scholz, the Florist.
Our Drinks Are Unexcelled. Special service given to your prescriptions.
Yours truly,
Jetton Drug Co.

ARGONNE
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, N. Y.
The name “Argonne” is used by courtesy of Argonne Shirt Co.

This space reserved for the Stonewall Hotel
Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1920.

DR. FRAZER HOOD, A DISTINCT ADDITION TO DAVIDSON'S FACULTY
Prominent Professor Comes to Occupy C. E. Graham Chair of Psychology.

“Who's Who in America” introduces Dr. Frazer Hood to us as a psychologist. His eminent qualifications to fill the C.
E. Graham Chair of Education and Psychology need no further sanction of words. A man cultured and trained by long
years of university study, a professor whose continuous experience is measured by decades; he is a scientist among the best
in the land; truly a man among men. Southern born and the holder of a degree from a Southern Presbyterian
College, we are assured that he is in sympathy with the ideals of such a college as Davidson.

Tupelo, Miss., claims him as her own by right of birth, and Southwestern Presbyterian University of Clarksville, Tenn., by right
of adoption. He was graduated from that institution in 1896 with the degree of B.A. During the year 1898-1899 he
was a student at Johns Hopkins University. At the dawn of the twentieth century, he held a master’s degree from
Yale University, and this same institution made him a Doctor of Philosophy two years later.

He has held the following professorships: Ethics and English Literature, Hanover (Ind.) College, 1902-1903; Psychology, University of Oklahoma, 1903-1904; the
Chair of Psychology for a number of years in The West Tennessee State Normal School; while he comes directly to
us from Northwestern University, Chicago. At the last named institution, he was director of the School of Salesmanship. During the
Great War, Dr. Hood served in the psychological department of the United States Army.

In a day when individualism counts most, Dr. Hood is pre-eminently a specialist. His two chief interests are the psychology
of the child and the psychology of business. He is looking forward to the day when the broadening of the
department of psychology will allow him to give at Davidson a course dealing with the psychology of business.

But Dr. Hood’s distinctions are not limited to his attainment in research, nor to his experience as an instructor. Besides
contributing to various reviews, he was the author in 1917 of “A Manual of Psychology Every Parent Ought to Know.”
He is a member of several fraternal organizations, being a Kappa Alpha, a Mason, and an Odd Fellow. Again, Davidson
finds herself particularly fortunate. We are glad that Dr. Hood is here.

R. O. T. C. NEWS.
The R. O. T. C. Armory has been alive with cadet officers, non-coms, and privates, drawing clothing and equipment during
the past week. By the time this issue of the Davidsonian goes to press, everyone will be fitted out and
ready to take his place in Captain Hearn’s Little Army. Nearly all the uniforms are new and they are above
the average in neatness. Much credit is due Sergeant Johnson who made special measurements. A special feature of the uniform
is the so-called “Dinky little cap.” When these made their first appearance on the Hill, they caused a general stampede.
Sergeant Johnson came out to inspect the bulletin board and was almost scared out of his wits by a Lieutenant,
who upon closer observation turned out to be a cadet in uniform. Some of the professors also proved victims of
curiosity and astonishment when they were caught scanning the features underneath the visor of an R. O. T. C. cap,
only to behold a modest and well-meaning freshman. A baseball game was in full swing in front of Phi Hall,
but when a uniform containing a junior passed by, everyone forgot the game temporarily, and turned around to inquire, “Where
did you get that hat?”

CAMPUSISMS.
Mr. RobertChaffin, of Lumberton, N. C., visited his daughter, Mrs. F. L. Jackson, for several days last week. Miss Sarah
Lingle, daughter of Dr. Thomas Lingle, has returned to Winston-Salem to resume her studies at historic Salem College. “Friend” Wilson
visited the Hill for a few days last week. Last year “Friend” ran the Commissary; right off the bat he
investigated the new Commissary: “They’ve got me skinned a mile, $1.50 for Fresh caps, Wowie!” Smith Murphy, '22, and A.
E. Fraleigh, '22, dropped in Sunday to visit friends for a few days. Murphy and Fraleigh are on their way
to Princeton University to take the regular literary course. Trying to do the Woodrow Wilson stunt, eh? Dr. G. H.
Cartledge, ’11, spent a few days on the Hill last week. After graduating at old Davidson with high honors, Dr.
Cartledge taught at P. C. for two years. Then his old Alma Mater called him to be assistant professor of
physics and chemistry; he remained here for one year, but in that short time, he showed himself to be a
thorough master of his subjects and a most efficient teacher. Leaving Davidson, Dr. Cartledge entered the commercial field, working in
many of the great munition factories of the north. Dr. Cartledge has given up commercial work and has accepted a
position with the Department of Chemistry of Johns Hopkins. T. H. Spence’s voice was heard again last week. T. H.
spent a few hours on the Hill Saturday in the interests of his school. He is now professor of history
and (think a minute) at Oak Ridge. His old teammate, “L, '12,” is teaching math and Latin in a private
school in N’Orleans. H. W. Davenport, ’19, gave his old Alma Mater a look-over last week. He is now in
Farmville, N.C., engaged in the cotton business; while here he was a famous forward on the varsity basketball team. Chapel
in another building as a regular thing for the first time in eighty-four (2) years. Warren Cox, A. P. Hudgins,
and Zeb Morris were more or less sick some day last week. Too many green apples. Late Monday evening: 488
men have registered.

OLD COMMENCEMENT HALL NOW USED AS CHAPEL

Chapel has heretofore been held in Shearer Hall, but on account of the increased enrollment this year, it has been
found necessary to change to the old commencement hall in Chambers building. The seats were numbered the first part of
the week, but the paint still being in a state of liquidity and rather than brand everybody’s shirt with a
number, it was decided best to remain in Shearer Hall four or five days longer. The different classes are to
be seated as follows in the old hall: The Freshmen are to occupy the first five rows extending all the
way across the hall; the Sophomores filling the next four rows behind them; the Juniors taking the middle left-hand block
and the Seniors the right-hand block. In this manner, the whole student body can be seated and not crowded together
as in Shearer Hall.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE
and TRUST COMPANY, HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS.

PIEDMONT THEATRE
High-Class Moving Pictures
Charlotte, N. C.

A Perfect Home Piano

Our “Factory-to-Home Plan” offers very attractive terms. Catalog on request. Tuning, Repairing, Moving.

CHAS. M. STIEFF, Inc.
ESTABLISHED 1842
M. D. MANNING, Manager
219 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

OUR NEW HOME

Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte,
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SAVE YOUR HAIR!

Tono Scalpa stops hair from coming out by removing the cause—the dangerous dandruff germ. We absolutely guarantee that Tono Scalpa
will remove every trace of dandruff from your head and relieve itching of the scalp, or your money will be
refunded.

TONO SCALPA
The SCALP TONIC

Tono Scalpa puts your scalp in a healthy condition thereby promoting a new growth of soft, radiant, luxuriant hair. Give
Tono Scalpa a trial. You will be delighted with the results.

MEN! Ask your Barber for a TONO SCALPA RUB.
