THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1920.

An Item of Information.
“When you see it in the Peanut Parcher it’s so.”

While the Wildcats Frolicked.
“Look! They have a punk formation!”
You're right, Alex, it was a girl who said it.

Always on the Job.
The Davidson Volunteer Fire Department had a busy day Saturday. Even the smallest blaze was given prompt and expert attention.
The entire department deserves commendation for the way it has always handled any fire which appeared on the campus. Are
you doing your bit?

Personal.
It’s a good policy to always keep your eyes and ears open but your mouth should be closed at least
part of the time.

Ode to “Bobbie.”*
*(Author of Exercising Ole Taurus,)
He slings the Bull into the air,
It falls to earth, he knows not where.

Help!
Snag—“What's a good sign for rain weather?”
Bugs—“Bullfrogs croaking.”
Snag—“But isn’t there some other sign that I could distinguish from Lawson blowing his bass horn?”

Hee-Haw.
Cassell—“What did you say, Carl?”
Matthews—“Nothing.”
Cassell—“I know, but how did you express it?”

Do It?
We wonder if the cotton we see these days calls up any associations to the Upper-classmen.

For Rent.
Perfectly useless P. O. Box. Bobby Long, No. 1. Apply Rumor.

We hear that J. Eris lost his cap at Cornelius the other night. We wonder if this wasn't just a
frame-up so he could return.

No, Please Don’t.
“Don’t worry yourself about your good looks, Mr. Kiser.”

Gloom.
The Mississippi-Alabama picture was being taken. “Close your mouths and look happy,” said the photographer. A. P. Ormand registers a
frown—he can’t be happy with his mouth shut.

Horsed.
Windy, to old colored man—“Say uncle, how far is it down the road a little piece?”
Uncle—“Well boss, I speck yo’ bettah go down dar an’ see.”

What?
We usta wonder what the newspapers write about when the war was over. Now we wonder what they will write
about since the election is over.

In a Fresh Theme.
“The league of nations stops the import of women, children, morphine and other drugs.”

Yep.
Prof.—“When you can dream in a language that is a good sign that you are learning it. Mr. Overton, have
you ever dreamed in German?”
Overton—“No, sir.”

Prof.—“What is the most important factor in the reasoning process?”
Burney—“Experience.”
Prof.—“Yes, and can a dumb brute, a mule for example, reason?”
Burney—“Yes, sir!”
Prof.—“How do you know, Mr. Burney?”
Burney—“By experience, sir.”

An Open Letter.
Thanks Miss V. S. for the compliment. The Peanut Parcher also appreciated your Thanksgiving wish and takes this occasion to
wish you a Merry Xmas, Pleasant Easter and Happy Fourth of July.

Needed Inventions.
Unbreakable Hair-Nets.
Tasteless lip-stick.
Smear-less rouge.
Squeak-less swings.

It’s about time to begin falling out with some of those girls—Christmas will be here before you know it.

Easy.
Burney—“I shall marry a girl of my exact antithesis!”
Tucker—“You have plenty of chances—there are a lot of intelligent girls about.”

This Week's Bone.
Rifle-Rest Clark walks into the classroom:
Prof.—“Didn’t I say that there would be no class today?”
Rifle-rest—“Yes sir—that’s why I came.”

Now, Now.
A fellow from Charlotte said he had just had a beef stew and felt bully. Someone from one of the
neighboring eating establishments said he had just had a week-end stew and felt like everything.

You tell ’em Stork, you kid the world.

Bashful.
Fresh—“Do you know why leaves turn red at this time of the year?”
Soph—“No, why?”
Fresh—“They blush with shame to think that their limbs will soon be bare.”

Essay on Man. (By David.)
Man is an omnivorous animal. Some smart people call him biped; but we call him a plain, every-day, two-legged animal.
Like other beasts, he roams at night, and feeds in daylight. Some nights he is very tame, so that he
could be touched anywhere except on the pocket-book. He has, under such conditions, been known to kick like a mule.
Like the rooster, a man crows every time he has accomplished an ordinary feat. Like the elephant, man has a
trunk, in which each carries his medium of protection—the elephant, his muscular strength; the man, his pistol. Man is like
a cow; a cow does not give her milk,—it has to be taken; a man does not give his money—it
has to be extracted. Man is so nearly like an ordinary dumb brute that he is often pronounced “horsed.” Men
are frequently called beasts, and women are often called cats. There is only one difference between man and brute—man lies
standing up.

Purty, Please!
Heard one dark night recently, (the voice was “Sock’s.”) “Ple-e-ease kiss me.”

Gloom.
The Mississippi-Alabama picture was being taken. “Close your mouth and look happy,” said the photographer. A. Overton—“No, sir.”but I had
a night—C. Ormand registers a frown—he can’t mare over it last night!" Suicide—He Shoots Himself. Prof.—“What is one thing that
aids a be happy with his mouth shut. Ask Charlie. Is four-thirty four-thirty? end with her parents, Dr. and Mrs.
Rich-

TOWN NEWS. Dr. W. S. Currell, president of the University of South Carolina, former professor of English at Davidson College,
spent the weekend with Dr. and Mrs. Harding. Dr. Currell also delivered a very interesting address at the Presbyterian Church
Sunday night. Mrs. Arbuckle and Mrs. Wood gave a tea Friday afternoon in honor of the new ladies in the
faculty circle. Miss Mary Richards spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Richards. She was accompanied by Miss
Pauline Seabrook. Mr. and Mrs. Doyle, of Baltimore, Md., are visiting Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell.

Honor Roll, Davidson Graded Schools, October, 1920:
First Grade—Brown, Walter; Cathey, Albert; Fortner, James; Griffith, Thomas; Honeycutt, Eula; Jetton, Sarah E.; Little, James; Withers, James; Withers, Mary.
Second Grade—Hurd, Kathleen; Morgan, Willie; Stine, Willie; Fisher, Lulu.
Third Grade—Little, Willard; Johnston, Jack; Thompson, John; Justice, Z. K.; Brown, Meta; Sloop, Alda; Mooney, Christine.
Fourth Grade—Crews, Oscar; Caldwell, Daisy; Jackson, Susie; Thompson, Elizabeth.
Fifth Grade—Arbuckle, Adele; Caldwell, James; Currie, Lucy Martin; McConnell, John D.; Richards, Jane Leighton; Withers, Sara.
Eighth Grade—Arbuckle, Currie, Letitia.
Ninth Grade—Richards, Sophie.

VISITORS ON THE HILL DURING THE PAST WEEK
Among those from Rock Hill were the following: O. S. Crawford, T. S. Reid, W. D. McGinnis, J. R. Barron,
Frank Barron, W. H. Ruggs, and Mr. and Mrs. Joe Roddey.
Those coming up from Charlotte were: Messrs. Wm. Thompson, Dwight Chalmers, '20, A. B. Clark, O. P. Hart, Professor Crouch,
Prof. Alexander Graham; Misses Bessie Chalmers, Dee Henderson, Margaret Anderson, Lavinia Boyer, Elizabeth Bruns, Sarah Dunlap, Elizabeth Fore, Margaret Harelson,
and Margaret Jones.
Miss Margaret W. Blakeney, of Rock Hill, S.C. spent the weekend as the guest of Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie.
Miss Elizabeth Sadler, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. The following came up from
Belmont: Messrs. A. J. Gillick, C. H. Sloan, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Stowe, Miss Katherine Stowe, Master Dan Stowe,
Mr. Chas. Stowe, Messrs. F. P. Hall, Jr., '20, R. D. Hall, '19, and W. M. Hall, '20. Mrs. C.
H. Curry and daughter, Miss Margaret, were visiting Mr. J. H. Curry Saturday. Miss Bertie L. Willeford spent a few
hours in Davidson Sunday.

FIRST ISSUE OF 1920-21 MAGAZINE APPEARS
Many Changes and Improvements Mark This Year’s Publication.
"That's what I call a real magazine." "Boy, this is pretty nifty, isn’t it?" These were some of the remarks
heard when the new Davidson College Magazine made its appearance last Saturday. The style of the Magazine has been changed
somewhat from that of former years. This year it is the size of “Life” and contains twenty-four double-column pages. The
cover design was prepared by J. B. Mallard, a former Davidson man, and is one of the most attractive covers
ever used on the Magazine. The literary standards set in former years are well upheld. The current issue of the
Magazine contains two short stories, five essays, a number of poems, and several timely editorials. The editors are to be
congratulated in their endeavors to make the Davidson College Magazine “the best college magazine in the South.”

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Candies, Fruits,
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
L. A. ELLIOTT
Etc.
See me for your feeds
Charlotte, N. C.

New Central Hotel
Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
or DYED
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
They will look new
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
The Ben Vonde Co.
Make your headquarters
The best Dyers in the South
with us when in Charlotte

At the Powerhouse Agency
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK
“If you want it off, do not put it on”
Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats—anything made of rubber. Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he
can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package by mail postpaid.
J. S. WINGO
Wholesale Accessories
Spartanburg, S.C.

OUR NEW HOME.
DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent
