= THE DAVIDSONIAN =

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., APRIL 1, 1921.

Vol. VIII. No. 25

Omnipotent Opulence Delights Poverty-Stricken Faculty

Lady Luck Transforms Poverty-Stricken Faculty into Princes of Finance

Baseball Season Opened by Split With Oak Ridge and Loss to Carolina

Currie Pitches Team to Victory in First Oak Ridge Battle—Institute Boys Winners in Second Contest—Carolina Takes Hard-Hitting Game at Winston

Christian Endeavor Convention Presents Interesting and Worthwhile Program

Speakers Issue Stirring Challenges to Full-Time Christian Service—Hundred Delegates Take Part in Social Activities and Business Program

For many years it had been the private opinion of the reporter that Toblitski said it; but a recent interview
with McIlwaine leaves no doubt that it can be attributed only to Methuselah. “It's an ill wind that blows nobody
good.” And The Wildcat nine opened the season by defeating the strong Oak Ridge team to the tune of 4
to 2. The game was played before a large crowd of enthusiastic spectators, who cheered every pretty play.

First Oak Ridge Game

Oak Ridge opened the game by scoring a run, while the Davidson team was held scoreless by McLaughlin until the
fatal fourth, when the whole club batted around, scoring four runs. The Presbyterians took advantage of McLaughlin’s weakness and shoved
over enough runs in this frame to gain a lead which the lads from the Institute were unable to overcome.
Their run in the eighth ended the scoring. The Wildcats outhit their rivals, but the Oak Ridge boys had a
perfect day in the field.

Glee Club Gives Concert at Greensboro College

Fine Crowd Braves Rain to Hear Davidson Music-Makers

Last Wednesday the Glee Club left on the 12:23 for Greensboro, going by way of Barbers and Winston-Salem. The concert
was given in the spacious auditorium of Greensboro College for Women, and a large audience was in attendance. The rain
kept some of the folks away, but notwithstanding, a fine crowd turned out to hear the music-makers. On the way
over, several of the members...

Tournament Holds Attention of Tennis Enthusiasts

Thirty Men Enrolled for the Elimination Matches—New Courts Being Utilized Fully

What's the score? Deuce again! Are you interested in tennis? Have you watched the ambitious aspirants for the team, dashing
madly about the courts, vying one with the other in skill and cunning, in order to fit themselves for the
final contest? About 30 men have turned in their...

Christian Endeavor Convention

The District Christian Endeavor Convention met here last week with delegates from societies in the eleven counties around Davidson. Two
of the traveling secretaries of the movement, Charles F. Evans and Frank P. Wilson, were among the speakers, as well
as other prominent leaders in Endeavor work. Special mention should be made of the very helpful devotional messages given by
Dr. Richards on “Look Up,” “Look In,” and “Look Out.” The whole program was very good and the entertainment furnished
by the townspeople was almost ideal, so that the convention will certainly be remembered for some time to come as
one of the bright events in the history of Christian Endeavor in this part of the State.

Sunday Afternoon

The C. E. Convention began its Sunday afternoon session at 2 o'clock. At this meeting one-minute reports were made by
representatives of different societies, stating the most important things which they had accomplished during the past year. The main feature
of this session was an address by Mr. Frank Wilson, Field Secretary of North Carolina and Virginia. Another important and
very helpful feature was the general conference on methods of doing C. E. work, led by Mr. Evans and Mr.
Wilson.

(Continued on page 3)

JUNIOR “REP” MEN FOR COMMENCEMENT ANNOUNCED

The faculty committee has announced the six men who are to represent the Junior Class in the speaking at the
commencement season. Each of the two literary societies will have three men in the contest for the medals. It was
decided to defer until next year the plan to have only two men from each society and to retain the
old plan one more year. The list as given out at chapel services on Tuesday by Dr. Martin is as
follows:

From the Philanthropic Society: J. L. Knight, J. H. McKeithen, and G. N. Neel, with W. M. McLeod as alternate.

From the Eumenean Society: J. C. Bailey, Jr., P. D. Miller, and J. M. Richards, with J. P. Price as
alternate.

Seven volumes of plays and two volumes of essays by Maurice Maeterlinck have just been added to the library. These
are the English translations of the work of that French writer, who is being read more and more widely. The
essays are: The Buried Temple, and The Measure of the Hours. The plays are: Princess Maleine, Joyzelle, and Monna Vanna,
The Miracle of Saint Anthony, Sister Beatrice and Ardiane and Barbe Bleue, The Intruder and other plays. The Burgomaster of
Stilemonde, and Mary Magdalene.

SIGMA UPSILON FRATERNITY ELECTS 3 NEW MEMBERS

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held a meeting last Tuesday night in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall. The program for
the meeting was very interesting and was thoroughly enjoyed by all of the members present. F. V. Long rendered an
extremely humorous and somewhat spooky story concerning the traditional skull found in the base of one of the columns of
Chambers building. John M. Gaston read the second chapter of the continued story which set forth the hero enveloped in
the deadly throes of a strike in an Alabama coal mine. Dr. E. F. Shewmake made a very interesting and
instructive talk on the works of O. Henry and the value of these works. J. C. Bailey, M. R. Doubles,
and R. K. Shaw were elected to membership in the fraternity. After the literary program had been carried out, refreshments
in the form of ice cream and cake were served.

Mac Richards Chosen New Pilot of the Davidsonian

Energetic Staff Appointed—Prospects Good for Coming Year

The election of The Davidsonian officers came off last Tuesday. As a result of this election “Mac” Richards was selected
to be Editor-in-Chief; Johnny Curry, Business Manager; and J. C. Wool, Circulation Manager. There were only two candidates for Editor-in-Chief,
“Mac” Richards and Ray Doubles; J. P. Price, having been elected president of the Y. M. C. A. the preceding
day, being ineligible. This is the first issue published by the new staff. The Davidsonian has made great progress during
the past year and it is hoped that it will improve even more during the coming year. The new staff
appointed by the Editor-in-Chief is as follows:

W. A. Gamble, Jr.—Managing Editor.
H. H. Smith—Assistant Managing Editor.
R. F. Davidson—Assignment Editor.
A. C. Ormond—Athletic Editor.
C. Summers—Alumni Editor.
McKeithen—Exchange Editor.Price—Forum Editor. Doubles—Campus Editor. Bailey—Y. M. C. A. Editor. James Sprunt—Social Editor. H. Ogden—Literary Editor. J. Cooper—Publicity. A. J.
H. J. P. M. R. J. C. Jam D. W. and Allison made hits with their solos, and McLeod and
Thompson brought down the house with their side-splitting jokes and funny capers. At the conclusion, a short reception was given
to the club, after which all adjourned to the hotel and spent a peaceful evening.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HOLDS SHORT BUSINESS SESSION

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity met on Tuesday night. A short business session opened the program. Dr. G. H.
Cartledge, formerly an assistant professor of Chemistry at Davidson and now teaching at Johns Hopkins University, was received into the
Alpha Alpha Chapter, and Louis P. Good, a charter member of this chapter, was authorized to duly initiate him at
the university. The business session was followed by an interesting and scholarly essay on the subject “Alcohol,” by A. P.
Ormond. In a masterly way, Ormond discussed the manufacture of alcohol and its future use as a substitute for gasoline
in the present gasoline-engine. The meeting closed with a general discussion of this important question of the present day.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss Mamie Withers, Friday afternoon, for an election of officers. The following were elected:
Miss Nannie Withers, president; Miss Hattie Thompson, vice-president; and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake, secretary.

Saturday Afternoon.

Saturday starts after the welcome to the manager Ed Canning. The golf hunters would be towed to prosperity with speeches
of welcome and response, the entering the lists on the appointed day away in the holes with their crooked sticks
for half a day—but no golfs! They had all gotten scared and skipped the country; that's all there was to
it. But after descending from the train in the Gate City, the boys were required to wait at the station
until the Business Manager made arrangements for the troupe at the Hotel O'Henry. After a short jaunt in the drizzling
rain, the club enjoyed the luxurious parlors of the O'Henry, choosing to remain there until supper time rather than try
to see the sights. Of course, this excludes some who just had to go out.

Davidson Juniors presented a two-act playlet, bringing out the field and the work of the Junior Christian Endeavor Society. This
was followed by short talks on Junior and Intermediate work, led by Mrs. W. H. Howell, of Wilmington, and Mr.
Evans. At 7 o'clock, a delicious lunch supper was served to the delegates in the gymnasium by the ladies of
the town. This was followed by a “get-together” meeting, led by Arbuckle, when jokes, comical reading, and music furnished entertainment.

Saturday Evening.

Mr. Whilsen took a few minutes to describe the State Convention to be held in Wilmington, June 10-12, and Mr.
Evans enthusiastically stressed the great World's Convention to be held in New York, July 6-11. Rev. Daniel Iverson, of Charlotte,
delivered the address of the evening on “Normalcy,” saying that whereas the country was now trying to get “back to
normalcy,” it was important to focus on the future.

VOLUMES OF PLAYS AND ESSAYS ADDED TO LIBRARY

Second Oak Ridge Game

The second game with Oak Ridge was a pitcher’s battle between Miley and Morris, with the latter coming out on
top, due to better support. Although the official score was 3 to 1, neither team earned a run. The game
was fast and close, and the Wildcats didn't lose hope until Shepard let three good ones go by. The prep
school lads took the lead in the second frame when they pushed two markers over the rubber on a hit,
two errors, and an infield out. Phillipe opened the inning by rolling out to Ratchford. But Sizemore started things with
a Texas Leaguer over second. McGirt was safe when Barnette booted his grounder and each runner advanced a sack when
he threw wild to first. Hood was safe at first and Sizemore scored when Barnette failed to touch first on
Cassell’s peg for Hood. Hood stole (Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE

Thursday—7:15 p.m. Phi Literary Society.
Friday—7:15 p.m., Bible Class Leaders Meeting.
9:00 p.m., Reporters’ Club Meeting.
Saturday—7:15 p.m., Movies: Douglas Fairbanks in “Down to Earth.”
9:15 p.m., Eu Literary Society Meeting.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Classes.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Wofford vs. Davidson, at Davidson.
