Speak Up Fresh Freshman

THeDAVII SONIAN

Back That Team FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 15, 1921. No. 2

Freshmen Welcomed by Interesting and Lively Reception Monday Night

Novel Program Put on by Y. M. C. A. in Opening Social Event on Campus

Many Visitors Present

On last Monday night the Fresh reception, an annual event in the social life of Davidson College, was held in
the Y. M. C. A. building and was highly enjoyed by new men and old and a goodly number of
visitors. On the occasion of the reception each year the Freshman men are given their first opportunity to meet the
members of the faculty outside of the classroom. They are also given information concerning the various activities on the hill
which go to make up the Davidson student life, and a taste of Davidson spirit.

The receiving line, composed of the professors and their wives, was rather long and extended around the entire length of
the gymnasium, but everyone seemed glad to make the rounds and greet the old members of the faculty and meet
the latest additions to their number. After each one present had become acquainted with his neighbor, Dwight Chalmers, “Y” secretary,
introduced in turn the speakers and other entertainers of the evening. Julian Price extended a brief but cordial welcome in
behalf of the Y. M. C. A. Professor Currie then spoke on adapting one’s mind to one’s environment. He urged
the new men and the old to put their greatest stress on scholastic achievement this year. Tom Lowry, president of
the Senior class, and acting president of the student body, due to Leonard Dick's inability to return, then welcomed the
new men to the student body. Murdock McLeod presented a short humorous sketch entitled “Gathering Nuts,” the cast being composed
of members of the faculty and of the student body, all called upon without previous notice. This was immensely enjoyed
by all except the actors, whose opinions were probably biased.

Coach Grey then spoke of the bright prospects for the Wildcat eleven and stressed the necessity for aiding the men
in keeping in training and carrying on their school work. Mac Richards briefly outlined the past of The Davidsonian and
what he expected from it for the coming year. Tom Spence, ’20, attempted to present a favor to the one
responsible for the excellent reception, but there were so many claimants that he kept the gift himself.

Suitable refreshments, in the form of ice cream and cake, were then served in ample abundance, and whispers of “How
many did you get?” were heard from all over the building, and several prominent students were forced to report to
the infirmary Tuesday morning.

(Continued on page 6)

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENCY VACANT WITH DICK NOT BACK

Leonard Dick, elected last spring as president of the student body, is unable to return to college this year on
account of the sickness of his father. All those who knew our small but well-built and friendly leader regret exceedingly
that he cannot be back with us. He has sent us a message and some fine suggestions for forward steps,
but this is not like having him present. All hope that his plan to return next year will materialize.

As this article goes to press the students are expecting to have a meeting on Wednesday to elect a new
president, and it is hoped that a man of as strong personality as the president the students have lost will
be secured.

Davidson Welcomes Four New Members in Faculty

Teaching Force Strengthened by Learned and Experienced Men

Davidson is indeed fortunate in having four so well-equipped additions to the faculty this year.

Dr. R. W. Pettengill comes to Davidson from Harvard University, and will have charge of all German and part of
the English work. Dr. Pettengill received his A.B. degree from Bowdoin College, Maine, and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard. He
has also studied one year in Gottingen and Bonn. He and his wife and two sons, of five and eight
years of age, will occupy the house vacated by Professor Wood.

Prof. I. K. Fleagle will have charge of all Spanish work. Professor Fleagle has an A.B. and an M.A. degree
from the University of Michigan and has taught for ten years at the University of Porto Rico, where he lived
for two years with a Porto Rican family in which Spanish was the spoken language. For the last two years
he has been dean at Marion Institute, Marion, Ala. He and his family will occupy the house just across from
the Cranford home.

The chair of Biology will be filled by Prof. W. T. Porter, who comes to us from Austin College, Sherman,
Tex. Professor Porter is a graduate of Tarkio College, Missouri, and later received his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees at Yale.
As a teacher he has had a wide experience, including service at Tarkio College, Gordon College of India, the School
of the Ozarks, and Austin College. He was released with great reluctance by the officers and students of Austin. He
has a wife and a young daughter. The family will make their home in one of the newly erected houses
on North Main street.

Mr. T. M. Currie, who has held a responsible position with the Hooper Electro-Chemical Company, of Niagara Falls, N.Y., comes
to us as assistant professor in mathematics and physics. Mr. Currie is a graduate of Davidson and is remembered as
an excellent student and all-round man.

LIBRARY NEWS

The Davidson College library, endowed by the late Mr. Carnegie, is one of the best equipped of its class in
the South. It is located at the beginning of Dormitory Row, just back of Shearer Hall, facing south. A spacious
reading room covers half of the lower floor and contains all of the periodicals, both religious and social. Many of
the leading newspapers of the country can be found in the racks. When a fellow is feeling blue and homesick,
the reading room is a dandy place to go. Try it, fellows.

The whole upper floor of the library is given up to books and bound periodicals from Noah’s time to date.
There are now 28,834 volumes in the library and new books are added every few months. If you have been
upstairs you have not failed to notice the six loving cups, just in front of the palm. They have been
won in inter-collegiate contests, debating, football, and baseball.

UPPER CLASS MEN FROM SOUTHERN HUGE SUN MANS ALE

Strong Coaching Force Directing Gridiron Work

Grey, Black, Douglas and Robson Working for Fine Team

With the opening of the Davidson football season on August 25th, coaches were found on the job. Four men—three former
Davidson stars and one who got his fame playing for N.C. State—are those to whom the student body is looking
for the best football team in its history. “Wooly” Grey needs no introduction to the “old men.” For the inspiration
of the new men, let it be known that Coach Grey has carved his name in the annals of Davidson
football history as being one of the greatest gridiron warriors who everwore the Red and Black. He was picked for
All-Southern in '17. Besides his football record, that of making the team three times, he also set the record in
shot put and discus. "Wooly" is rapidly whipping the squad into shape and it does not take much optimism to
predict a very successful season. Black to rival this year as a gift of the Alumni Association. No gift could
have been more welcome. With four years’ training in football at State, he is certainly equipped to aid Coach Grey.
His year at State he was ineligible for the varsity, but in his Soph year he was well on his
way to stardom when injuries debarred him. His Junior year the coveted letter was captured. The following year he accepted
a position as chemistry professor and coach of the Freshman team, both well known at Davidson. For the last three
years, Douglas and Robson have been indispensable players on Davidson’s team. At end, he has always been a tower of
defense and will always be remembered for his 55-yard run in the Carolina game. Robson played scrub ball at Davidson
for three years and in his fourth year came to the front and took his letter home. Unfortunately, he must
leave before the 1st of October.

A woman had her little daughter at a shoe store to be fitted. The clerk put one shoe on and
asked her to walk around and see how it felt. She did so, then said to the clerk: “It feels
all right; I'll take two of ’em.”—Ex.

Campus Swarms With Fresh Caps and Fresher Owners

New Wearers of the Green Succeed Those Gone Before

They came, they saw, and they are still here. They began last Tuesday morning and have been swarming in like
locusts ever since. Fresh, fresh, fresh—oodles of them everywhere you look you are made aware of their verdant presence. Long
ones, short ones, slim ones, and fat ones, good-looking ones and ugly ones, red-headed and tow-headed, oh! it would take
the flow of words possessed by a Spanish athlete to describe them all. A goodly number of our men even
went from the styx to come up here and decorate our staid and dignified old campus. But the joke is
that the latest editions look so much better than their older brothers. Even the Faculty, not to be outdone by
the student body, went out into the byways and hedges and picked up some Freshmen for that august body. So
we all have cause for rejoicing. But in justice to the Class of '25, it must be said that they
are as good-looking a bunch as Davidson has had in several years and we all welcome them to the old
school.

As usual, the “Y” was on hand to welcome the new men this year. Establishing its headquarters in the entrance
to Phi Hall, it had a delegation which met all trains. This delegation, after introducing themselves to all the Freshmen,
took them to the “Y” headquarters where they were supplied with nameplates and handbooks. After being introduced to all the
“Y” men, they were taken to the Library and registered. The nameplate, which was provided by the “Y,” is a
new article on the campus. It is hoped that this will aid the new men in getting acquainted both with
the professors and with the upperclassmen. The absence of fresh parades has been noticeable this year. The cry of “Fresh
Out!” which of old brought a Freshman’s heart to his mouth, is no longer heard on the campus, and where
formerly there were mingled cries of alarm and command, a silence prevails which is broken only by a song or
a friendly greeting. The men of the upper classes seem to be trying to abide by the resolutions.

(Continued on page 6)

Eighty-Five Huskies Fight for Berth on 1921 Eleven

Season Begins in Ten Days. Strenuous Schedule Facing Red and Black Warriors

Eighty-five candidates for Davidson's football eleven have entered their final period of intensive training. Daily practice has been held since
August 25th, and the largest squad in the history of the college is rounding into shape. Out of the 15
lettermen of last year, eight are back. Davidson “Wildcats” are looking forward to a big gridiron season. The greatest loss
to the Presbyterians is Captain Hammett. For the past two seasons, he has been the mainstay of the defense and
his battering charges are sure to be keenly missed. Other lettermen who will be missed are: Romefelt, guard; Brady, center;
Douglas, end; Poe and Shepherd, backs.

To fill the places of these men, there is an abundance of new material in last year’s subs, as well
as a large number of prep school stars. Several of them are making strong bids for berths on the varsity.
"Doc" Labar, all-state guard, will pilot the team. He is one of the driving types of linesmen and is sure
to make a popular leader. Davis is the only other veteran linesman. He played a steady game last year and
much reliance is placed in his ability. Faison, one of the big finds of last season, and Black, who showed
up well with A.O. & E., seem likely to get the call for the flank positions. In the backfield, Bethea,
Schenck, McFadden, Shepherd, and Massey are the lettermen who will have to fight off the attacks of a host of
promising new men. Brown, who starred in Texas prep circles; Hendrix and McAlister, of Greensboro; and Hastin, of Mobile, seem
to be leading the attack on them.

Hugh M. Grey, former Davidson star and all-Southern guard, will again have charge as head coach. Assisting him are Black,
who has charge of the ends; Douglas, who is handling the backs; and Robson, who is helping with the linemen.
Manager Price has arranged a difficult schedule. The team must strike mid-season form in time for the Virginia game and
maintain that pace until the Thanksgiving game with Furman. It will be a difficult task to keep the men from
going “stale,” but Coach Grey may be counted on to handle the job. The full schedule is as follows:

September 24—University of Virginia, at Charlottesville
September 30—P. C., at Davidson
October 8—Georgia Tech, at Atlanta
October 15—Wake Forest, at Charlotte
October 22—Wofford, at University
October 29—University of Richmond, at Richmond
November 5—N. C. State, at Charlotte
November 12—University of N.C., at Davidson
November 18—Elon, at Winston-Salem
November 20—Richmond, at Davidson
November 24—Furman, at Greenville

CALENDAR

Thursday—7:00 p.m.: Eumenean Literary Society
Saturday—7:30 p.m.: Literary Society
Sunday—10:00 a.m.: Volunteer Band
Sunday—6:15 p.m.: “Y” meeting. Brother Mark as speaker
Wednesday—6:00 p.m.: Bible Study Class
Saturday—8:00 p.m.: Movies

PROCRASTINATION IS THE THIEF OF TIME
