MR. J. M. WILLIAMSON, OF GRAHAM, DEAD

Davidson Man Long Prominent in Cotton Mill Industry of This State.

A message received recently announced the death of Mr. James N. Williamson, Sr., well-known citizen of Graham, Alamance County. Mr. Williamson was an only brother of the late Mr. T. F. Williamson, of Winston-Salem, and an uncle of Mesdames Martin D. Wood and Walter R. Leake and Mr. R. L. Williamson, of Winston-Salem; Mrs. John C. Anderson, of Bristol, Tenn., and Mr. Charles H. Williamson, of Charlotte.

Mr. Williamson was one of the most prominent and best-loved citizens of Alamance County. As a boy of tender years, he bore arms in the Confederate army, serving faithfully and gallantly as a soldier and an officer. Following the war, he began the manufacture of cotton and during his life was associated with many of the leading textile manufacturers of the state and nation. While he was never known in public affairs, he was keenly interested in all matters affecting the progress of his home community and county and in the state at large, and by efficient and careful management of his business rendered a real service to his state in the development of its resources.

The deceased was 79 years old. He was born at Locust Hill, in Caswell County, March 8, 1842. His father, Thomas Williamson, was a large plantation owner and operator and prominent merchant of his day. He received his early education principally from his mother, of Scotch-Irish descent, maiden name Frances Panel Banks Farish. He prepared for college at the school conducted by Alexander Wilson, in Alamance, then one of the best schools of its kind in the state. From there he entered Davidson College.

In May 1861, he enlisted as a private in Co. A, 3d Regiment N. C. Volunteers, the first company from Caswell County. He was wounded while attached to Pender’s Brigade at Chancellorsville, and also at Gettysburg and at the Wilderness, being promoted to first lieutenant after that battle. He was in the trenches with Lee at Petersburg and was captain of his company when paroled at Appomattox.

Captain Williamson returned home and applied himself to restoring his father's farm. He later married Miss Holt, of Graham, and at the suggestion of her father, Mr. E. M. Holt, they moved to Graham and became interested in cotton manufacture with M. E. Holt’s Sons, operators of the Alamance Cotton Mills. While continuing his farming activities, he contributed materially to the development of textiles in the state. Other mills established at intervals and in which he has retained a large interest are the Carolina Mills, at Haw River, the Ossipee Cotton Mills in Alamance, conducted by James N. Williamson & Sons; and the Pilot Cotton Mills at Raleigh.

ALUMNI ON HILL.

In addition to the many “fires” and other visitors on the hill for Junior Speaking, we were glad to have with us quite a few of our alumni, among whom were the following:
- D. R. Alexander.
- C. H. Barringer, ex-’23, of Charlotte.
- N. Ed. Bradshaw, ex-’19, of Concord.
- Frank L. Brown.
- W. L. Campbell, ex-'23, of Norwood.
- Ted Cashion, ‘17, of Davidson.
- Geo. S. Crouch, '18, of Charlotte.
- Cecil (Pat) Gilchrist, ex-'22, of Charlotte.
- W. Frank Hall, ’20, of Statesville.
- R. Dave Hall, '19, of Belmont.
- W. M. Hall, ‘19, of Belmont.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Rev. A. A. McGeachy, ‘91, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, and Alexander Martin, D.D., ’95, pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, were on the program of the Deacons’ Convention of Kings Mountain Presbytery, held last week in Gastonia.

H. T. Mills, ‘06, is in charge of registration of the Laymen’s Convention at Greenville, S. C.

C. L. Crane, ‘07, has recently returned from Africa on furlough.

J. D. Woodside, ’98, a prominent cotton manufacturer of Greenville, S. C. and founder of the J. D. Woodside Student Loan Fund at Davidson, has recently founded several scholarships at the Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

C. C. Beam, ‘09, has recently been employed by the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte as church secretary.

WM. FRANKLIN CARTER HAS TAKEN PROMINENT PLACE IN NORTH CAROLINA

Graduating in the Class of '76; He Began the Practice of Law in '79 — Has Sent Four Sons to Davidson.

William Franklin Carter, '76, was born in Rockingham County, N. C., in 1857. He entered Davidson College in 1872 and received his A.B. degree in 1876 at the early age of 19. The fall after leaving Davidson, he was honored by being elected principal of the Male Academy at Wentworth, N. C. His predecessors in this office were men of such distinction as Gov. A. M. Scales and Judge W. N. Mebane. At the end of his first year, he was re-elected as principal, but gave up the position in order to study law, in which he had become very much interested while attending court.

During the winter of 1878, he went to Mt. Airy, ever since his home, and took a law course under Judge Jesse F. Graves. He acted as tutor to the Judge’s children, being well qualified for the position. This arrangement continued until January 1879, when he was awarded a license to practice law. He hung out his shingle in Mt. Airy and began his professional career there. Clients came slowly at first, as is always the case with young lawyers. The struggle has continued through 35 years, and by unceasing toil and diligent application, he has attained marked distinction in his profession.

Mr. Carter was mayor of his city for four years and chairman of the Board of School Commissioners for 14 years. In December 1884, he married Miss Annie Hollingsworth, youngest daughter of Dr. Joseph Hollingsworth, a most eminent physician. There have been born to them eight children. Three of his sons have completed their courses at Davidson and one is a student there now; so he has done his full duty to his alma mater.

Mr. Carter united with the church 35 years ago and was made elder soon afterward. Twenty-eight years ago, he was made superintendent of the Sunday School. Davidson is proud of this alumnus whose life has been an honor to his profession and to the community in which he has spent it.

GEORGE WATTS DEAD.

Vice-President Board of Trustees and Largest North Carolina Tax Payer.

George Washington Watts, 70, North Carolina's largest taxpayer, died at his home in Durham at 10:15 o'clock Monday. His death was due to cancer of the stomach. Although not unexpected, Mr. Watts’ death came as a distinct shock to the people of North Carolina, who for several weeks have watched with intense interest every effort of specialists, surgeons, and physicians to save his life.

The deceased has been in ill health for the past two years. Early last year, he went to a hospital in Baltimore in the hope of permanent recovery. Several operations were performed upon him. In mid-summer, he returned to his home from Baltimore greatly improved. Physicians advised him to take a trip abroad. Accepting the advice, Mr. Watts traveled for two months in Europe, spending a majority of the time in the Orient, where he has invested more than $1,000,000 in foreign missionary work. Returning late in 1920 to his home, Mr. Watts seemed to be enjoying better health. It was for less than two weeks, however, his illness returned upon him with renewed effectiveness, and although medical men made every known attempt to restore him to health, he slowly succumbed. For several weeks, the deceased has been kept alive through the use of blood transfusion operations; the physicians were planning for another operation. Mr. Watts died, however, before the operation could be undertaken.

He has ever been a faithful friend to Davidson College and other needy educational institutions. It was largely through his efforts that Union Theological Seminary was moved to Richmond and so thoroughly equipped. Mr. Watts has given more to Davidson than any other one man. Besides his frequent contributions here, he gave Watts dormitory not many years ago, and a hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) recently in the educational campaign for schools and colleges of the State. Through the death of Mr. Watts, North Carolina loses her largest individual taxpayer and wealthiest citizen. Although the value of his estate is not definitely known, it is estimated to be in the millions.known, it is known that for years he has been by far the largest taxpayer in Durham, a city of big corporations; he is rated third largest taxpayer, only two large tobacco corporations being listed ahead of him. The funeral was held at the residence on Duke Street Wednesday afternoon. Dr. David H. Scanlon, pastor of the Durham First Presbyterian Church, assisted by Dr. W. W. Moore, of the Union Theological Seminary, and Dr. E. R. Leyburn, of Rome, Ga., a former pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Durham, had charge. Interment was in Maplewood Cemetery. Mr. Watts is survived by his wife and one daughter, Mrs. John Sprunt Hill, of Durham.

THE ANTI-ALCOHOL SITUATION IN EUROPE

College “Dry” Returns After Touring Universities of Europe Eight Months and Reports Increasing Activity on the Part of Students in the Anti-Alcohol Movement.

John Maxwell (Jack) Harden, ‘10, died at his home in Rome, Ga., on Sunday, February 20th, after a two weeks’ illness of pneumonia. Jack came to Davidson from Abbeville, S. C., in the fall of 1906. He was prominent in the literary and athletic life of the college during his four years’ stay. He was an editor of both the Magazine and Quips and Cranks, and was the author of numerous stories and poems. He was a member of his class team in football, baseball, and basketball. After graduating with honors, he taught school for one year in Selma, Ala. The following two years he spent as an instructor in the Peacock-Fleet School in Atlanta. In the fall of 1913, he went to Rome, where for five years he was athletic director and instructor in the Darlington School for Boys. He was then promoted to the position of headmaster of this school. After serving for two years in this capacity, he resigned to enter business, and at the time of his death, he was the traveling representative of the Fulton Supply Company, of Atlanta. In 1915 he married Miss Margaret Evans, of Abbeville, S.C. He is survived by his wife and two small children. The body was taken to Abbeville for interment. Jack Harden was known and loved by everyone in Rome. His life there, as elsewhere, has been devoted to service to his fellowman, and Rome has suffered a distinct loss in his death. He was an earnest Christian, and though only 32 years of age, had already been ordained an elder in the First Presbyterian Church. He was also a Rotarian and was prominent in social and civic affairs in Rome.

TOWN NEWS.

“European opinion is one of great surprise concerning America’s attitude toward prohibition. The majority cannot grasp it.” Thus Mr. Harry S. Warner, General Secretary of the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association, summarized the European attitude upon his very recent arrival in the United States. Mr. Warner has just returned from an eight months’ tour of ten European countries where he studied the alcohol situation and visited the various university student anti-alcohol organizations. Every country visited has one or more student movements directed against alcohol. These are increasing in membership and some are making large progress towards arousing public opinion in the matter. Some of these organizations lay the emphasis on creating a student social life of a thoroughly enjoyable sort which shall be free from drinking customs and traditions. Others merely encourage the matter of personal abstinence. A third classification of such student bodies are those who study the problem in its broad economic and social aspects with a view of getting a comprehensive understanding of the question. A few such groups take part in active propaganda and political movements for legal prohibition. That the students were eager to get at the facts of the matter was indicated, according to Mr. Warner, by a meeting at King’s College. There the students who had “ragged” “Pussyfoot” Johnson were anxious to make amends and in a prohibition debate gave close attention, took part in a general discussion, and were insistent for an American speaker. When questioned regarding his own kidnapping at Sheffield University, Mr. Warner laughed and said it was a very enjoyable student prank. In interviewing the leaders of European industries and intellectual improvements, Mr. Warner declared that the great opinion was that if America enforced prohibition for a period of three years, it would have a dynamic influence toward furthering the progress of the prohibition movement throughout that continent.

“The closing of saloons is sending many young people to college.” Thus declared William Jennings Bryan in a recent interview with a reporter for the Ohio State University Lantern. “Five years ago we spent three times as much money on intoxicating liquors as we did on education. A part of that money at least has been diverted to educational channels. Five years ago less than ten percent of all the pupils in the common grades entered high school, and not over two percent ever went to college. If only four percent now go to college, we can see why the university halls are filled to overflowing.” “Remedies never come until after the disease,” declared Mr. Bryan in regard to the inability of educational institutions to handle properly the vast numbers which come to them. “We may feel sure that thinking people will not see our colleges and universities decline for lack of funds or on account of antiquated systems of education. One proposed remedy is the establishment of junior colleges to take care of those just starting to college. Another is the extension of high school to make it cover the first two years of the college course. There is a growing tendency in favor of the extension of high school work in this manner, and, if it is adopted, twice the present number of students can finish their education at college without making the colleges any larger than they are today.”

Students at Baylor University, Texas, cannot have a vote in the Student Government Association unless they pay a poll tax and have a receipt to show. The income thus derived is spent in booster activities carried on by the Student Association.

Motherhood is the subject of a course offered by the State College for Women of Texas. The course consists of lectures, library readings, and psychological laboratory work, intended to fit the young woman to be mistress of a home and mother of a family.

Miss Julia Johnson gave an informal tea last Wednesday afternoon in honor of her sister-in-law, Mrs. Patrick Johnson. Mrs. Johnson leaves in a few weeks to join her husband in Turkey. Mrs. L. B. McCoy, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Misses Mary and Lizzie Young. Miss Kalista Hood spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Hood. Mrs. John Moore and Miss Cornelia Shaw left Tuesday morning for Greenville to attend the Laymen’s Missionary Convention. Miss Martha Hamilton, of Davidson, was elected on March 3rd as Secretary of the Y. W. C. A. at North Carolina College for Women, Greensboro.

NOT SUCH A LARGE PLACE.

It seemed that when Rastus and Sam died they took different routes, so when the latter got to heaven he called Rastus on the phone. “Rastus,” he said, “how do yo’ like it down thar?” “Oh, boy! Dis here am some place,” replied Rastus. “All we has ter do is to wear a red suit wid horns, an’ every now an’ den shovel some coal on de fire. We don't work no more dan two hours out ob de twenty-four down here. But tell me, Sam, how is it with you up yonder?” “Mah goodness! We has to git up at fo’ o'clock in de mownin' an’ gatah in de stahs; den we has to haul in de moon and hang out de sun. Den we has ter roll de clouds aroun’ all day long.” “But, Sam, how comes it yo’ has ter work so hard?” “Well, to tell de truf, Rastus, we’s kin’ o’ short of help up here.”—Ex.

J. R. Jones, ex-'17, of Sanford. R. C. Klontz, of Columbia Seminary. “Jimmie” McQueen, ex-’20, of Dillon. E. P. Nesbett, ‘17, of Charlotte. “Friend” Wilson, ‘20, of Gastonia. J. G. Sloan, ex-'22, of Aberdeen. “Prep” Hall, '20, was on the Hill last week with his basketeers.