THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

VOLUNTEER SECRETARY TO SPEAK HERE SUNDAY

Bland Roberts, traveling student volunteer secretary and president of the Southern Field Council, will be the speaker at the “Y”
services Sunday night.

To those who were at Blue Ridge last summer, Mr. Roberts will be a welcome and familiar friend. He took
his M.A. degree at Vanderbilt University last year, and while there was assistant “Y” secretary. He comes to Davidson from
Greensboro, and will remain two days, November 22nd and 23rd. While in Davidson Mr. Roberts will be glad to have
interviews with any of the students who desire to talk with him.

WEEKS AND TED JONES GO ON VOLUNTEER DEPUTATION

“The most successful deputation we have ever been on” was the report of Ted Jones and Guy Weeks on their
return Monday from Charlotte, where they were sent on a deputation by the Volunteer Band. They spoke Sunday night at
the North Charlotte Methodist Church to a packed house of about three hundred people. The young ladies of the Epworth
League staged a missionary pageant before the talks. This pageant was very impressive and paved the way for the two
talks which followed. One girl volunteered as a result of the service while great interest seemed to prevail over all
the people. These two men also report that they were highly entertained by both the pastor, Rev. J. H. Armbrust,
and the people in general.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS SUMMERS AND BURNEY OUT

Gus Summers and L. P. Burney were sent out by the Ministerial Band to the A. R. P. Churches around
Troutville last Sunday. Each man spoke three times, in the morning at one church, in the afternoon at another, and
at night to a young people’s society. Summers presented in a forceful and appealing manner the subject: “The Christian Minister,”
showing his call, training, and life work. Burney’s subject was “General Christian Service and Missions,” in which he showed the
need of more consecration in the life of every church member, and pled for a greater support for the mission
fields of the Church. Both of the speakers reported large and interested audiences, especially that of the young people with
whom the most good is hoped to be effected.

MINISTERIAL BAND TALKS ON RURAL SECTION NEEDS

The question of the existing conditions in the country churches and their improvement was discussed in an interesting meeting of
the Ministerial Band last Sunday. J. I. Knight, the leader, told how the population of the country was flowing into
the cities, giving as the cause the fact that the young men go to the cities because larger opportunities await
them there. Then he said that the forces working for the improvement of the country life are the country preachers,
doctors, teachers, and health officers; but these do not look to the country as a field of service, and pass
to the cities where larger opportunities are, consequently leaving less able men in the country. The meeting was then thrown
open to the band for talks, and Sharpe told how Mr. Scattergood, a pastor of a country church in Pitt
County, N. C., got close to, and in sympathy with the people of his church by gaining the favor and
love of the children first. Next, Fleming gave the band a glimpse of his experience as a Sunday School teacher
among small children. Then Gamble urged that all candidates for the ministry educate and prepare themselves to the best possible
degree so as to raise the average efficiency among preachers. Irvin Knight spoke again, picturing how the country preacher is
the social leader and example among his people. Lastly, Morrow mentioned that country congregations are very genial and appreciative.

VOLUNTEERS DISCUSS S. N. LAPSLEY AND ALEX. McKAY

Sunday morning at ten o’clock the Volunteer Band met in the “Y” room at the gymnasium to study the lives
of two pioneer missionaries to Africa, S. N. Lapsley and Alexander McKay. The draft of the new constitution was read
and was laid on the table for two weeks. Ed Cunningham conducted the devotional exercises of the meeting. The first
talk was made by M. P. Calhoun on the life of Samuel Lapsley. He showed that although Lapsley was in
Africa only two years, still by his spiritual devotion and untiring effort he paved the way in the Congo for
the great work now being done by the Presbyterian mission. Although he never saw the results of his preaching and
teaching, the men who came after reaped them, and now the Church in the Congo has a membership of over
twenty thousand. V. P. Hoye spoke next on the work of McKay. He emphasized the fact that McKay prepared himself
for the work by practical training. He was an engineer and was proficient in many other ways which helped him
in penetrating the jungle and in opening up the dark recesses of Africa to the influences of Christianity. His practical
training helped him in his pioneer work as nothing else could have done; and it is still true that there
is a great need, especially in Africa, for missionaries to help in practical ways, teaching the natives useful occupations. Next
Sunday the work in China will be discussed and the lives of two disciples of Christ, Morrison and McKenzie, who
opened up this work will be studied by the volunteers. All members are urged to be on hand at ten
o’clock in the “Y” room.

SENIOR SPEAKING PROMISES MUCH LIFE FOR THE CAMPUS

Senior week begins in earnest Friday evening of next week. The unconquerable Wildkittens will meet in mortal combat with the
courageous, resolute scrub team of Clemson. The Kittens have a reputation equaled by none, while Clemson’s second team has been
trouncing whomsoever she would. Friday night and Saturday morning, new truths and doctrines will be proclaimed from the mouths of
no less personages than the Seniors. Saturday afternoon the class championship basketball game will be played. Saturday night the minstrel
will make its initial appearance before the public. The minstrel has been doing some hard training and it is certain
they will present something really worthwhile. After the minstrel comes theSenior reception, which will be full of action and pep,
and will be one of the big events. Those expecting to deliver Senior speeches are: L. A. Taylor—“Who Will Put
the Lid On.” J. L. Parks—“Idea Action.” C. G. Brown—“As a Man Thinketh.” Coupled With and 18 E. Trade St.
EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT Fall Sports Football; Basketball, Volleyball; Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors Coaches fully realize the importance of correct
equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them. Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
— A. L. Faul, Mgr. T. A. Freeman—“Eventually, Why Not Now?” P. D. Miller—“Out of the Hill.” J. C. Wool—“Preparedness.”
J. F. Clark—“Soul of America.” J. I. Knight—“Standard Bearers Civilization.” W. K. McCain—“Door of Hope.” G. N. Neal—“Burden Bearers.” R.
Bitzer—“Value of Literary Societies.”

THE LOVE SPECIAL LAST WEEK’S MOVIE OFFERING

For once the movie fans of Davidson have seen something for nothing. “The Love Special” is a high class movie
and it was due to good management that it could be shown free of charge. Friday night carried the students
back to old times when they could go in without paying. To the town people it was an innovation and
a very welcome one. A large crowd saw the picture. Wallace Reid was fully half the show but Agnes Ayers
and Theodore Roberts were right there with the other half. A hair-raising race against time in a locomotive engine was
the most noteworthy scene.

INNOCENTS ABROAD. (By One of 'Em.)

“They also serve who only lie in wait,” said the poet (?), and these words flashed into my mind as
the nine of us breezed into Mooresville Junction, after a heartbreaking stroll of seven miles. And as our hard boys
struck the railroad track, there arose a sight which must have made leap the heart of any old A. E.
F. veteran among us. Sixty odd heads peered silently over the embankment to greet their reinforcements. “Sixty-nine, boys,” counted P.
D. Miller, as complacently as though checking off a list of patrons, “and if we don’t frock Carolina, there ain’t
a dog in Georgia.” “Come, lay on me, friend,” said the reclining ones, and we piled up three deep to
revel in, at least, the warmth of companionship. Then, like the wise virgins, we made us fires of cornstalks and
passed the merry night till about two a.m., when some swore he heard a whistle. We ste us hiding places
along th It was only the Southbo it was taking on water, blew and the Royal Prince Albert drew nigh!
And then a sound as of hideous roars and curses! Foiled, just as success was within our grasp. For the
mighty freight had stopped at Mooresville and sent only her engine up for water; which same would quickly return to
his waiting coaches and waft them swiftly by us. As one man we arose and thundered down the sleeping streets
of the city. The engine passed us, and we could see the headlight gleam, as it coupled up to its
waiting charges. “Press forward, men!” “Press forward!” and thus urged we staged an effort magnificent, and caught her just as
she was getting up speed. Caught her, yes, all but Pat Miller. He, poor soul, laden with the weight of
prosperity, failed at the crucial moment, turned sadly southward, and gravitated slowly toward the commissary. “Well, boys,” says J. P.,
“we're nearly all here, and I'd feel just fine if only I could be working on my speech for the
‘Y’ Sunday night.” “By Jove,” says Moss, “and I’m to address the Ministerial Band Sunday,” “Never mind that, boys,” from
Cooper, in his O. D. breeches and red jersey, “We're doing our bit.” “Barber’s Junction,” piped the brakeman, “change cars
for Winston-Salem and all points north.” So we brushed off the coal dust and walked back half mile or more
to our sleeper. The engine had developed something serious, but by stopping every few minutes to get up steam she
managed to keep going. Anyway, we rolled into the Twin City at six a.m., and those in the berths arose
and assisted their lower brethren to get a bit of fresh air before breakfast. The train crew proved to be
good fellows, and offered to bring us back that night, but woe to those who would fain accept! Complications arose,
and we shall hear more upon their return. It was a glorious day for the Red and Black, and who
would deny the Royal Albert his share of honor due?

Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

Where do you buy them? Charlotte

New Central Hotel

In the center of the theatre and shopping district Thoroughly modern and up-to-date Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

YOUR FURNISHINGS!

We can fill your needs at POPULAR PRICES A. Pittle Opposite the Southern Mfg. Club CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The S. & W. Cafeterias Winston-Salem are catering to you

Visit Our Fountain

All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies Tryon Drug Co. 200
N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Get Your Clothes Cleaned

The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers See their agent: W. Yonan 12 Chambers The Ben Vonde Co. The best
Dyers in the South

Fraternity Stationery

Come in and look it over. Also Plain and College Seal Stationery Orders taken for engraved visiting cards W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER DAVIDSON, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

ART SHOP

EVERSHARP PENCILS AND WAHL FOUNTAIN PENS MAKE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFTS, Postage prepaid on Mail Orders W. I. VAN NESS &
CO. 21 N. Tryon Phone 744

“We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size”

The Commercial National Bank — CHARLOTTE, N. C. CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00 NONE TOO LARGE A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
