4 The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Open Forum Forum Editor
M. RICHARDS
P. P. P.
Managing Editor
J. S. CLARK
Social Editor
K. G. ORMOND
Literary Editor
A. C. SUMMERS
Alumni Editor
W. J. COOPER
Publicity Editor
T. McKEITHEN
Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. FETZER, Pres.
J. S. GRACY, V.-Pres.
G. W. MAUZE, Sec.-Treas.
W. BRADFORD
W. M. HESTON
M. P. CALHOUN
J. C. MACK
D. I. MAHOOD
A. C. MAUZE

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
RUSSELL
Asst. in Circulation Department:
GOD. PULLER
S. CURRIE
D. C. HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL:
“The secret of success is doing common things uncommonly well.”

Davidson’s famous fighting spirit was very much in evidence in Charlottesville last Saturday, and, though fighting a losing battle, the
Wildcats put up an exhibition of pluck and gameness of which no Davidson man need be ashamed.

A few years ago even the rashest student would hardly have dared predict that Davidson would ever have a wireless
station on her campus. Now that the establishment of such a station is a certainty, one wonders what will come
next.

With feature moving picture shows appearing in the college gymnasium the same week that they are drawing capacity crowds in
Charlotte, Davidson is taking quite a rise in the cinema world, and the Y. M. C. A. is to be
congratulated on securing such a class of entertainment.

It is not often that the student body has the opportunity of hearing two speakers of such merit as Professor
Graham and Dr. Brown on consecutive nights, and those who failed to hear them suffered a genuine loss.

With our first reviews beginning this week, college life becomes a grim reality once more.

HELP MAKE THE WILDCATS WILDER.

Friday afternoon affords the first opportunity for the student body at large to see the Wildcats in action. In the
eleven from Presbyterian College, Davidson will meet a rival worthy of her steel, and a battle royal between the opposing
sons of Calvin is sure to ensue. The fact that the Red and Black machine of 1921 has the fighting
spirit which will make it reflect nothing but honor on its college was amply demonstrated in last Saturday’s game. Whether
or not the students of 1921 will give such a team the support which it so richly deserves has not
yet been shown. We believe that there is not a man on the campus of Davidson who is not squarely
behind his team and coach and who would not do all in his power to help them. There is no
better way of showing this interest in the power of the student body than well-organized cheering at games. It is
hard for a team to play its best when the bleachers are silent and lifeless. It is still harder to
stop a team which hears its supporters cheering every play, and calling for its best endeavors. Let every true son
of Davidson be on hand Friday, ready to follow his cheer leader and by his yelling to help make the
Wildcats wilder than ever.

A WORD TO OUR ALUMNI.

The Davidsonian is printed with the sole object of promoting the best interests of Davidson College. Among the many tasks
which fall to us in the pursuit of this ideal, none is more important than that of keeping our alumni
in touch with their alma mater. Toward that end we have been working, and if we did not believe that
we were succeeding to some extent we would not ask you to support us by your subscriptions. Of the fact
that there is much room for improvement, however, we are keenly sensible, and it is to ask your aid in
making these improvements that this editorial is written. If you have a suggestion for the paper which you feel will
be helpful or an item of news which will be of interest to other alumni, send it in and it
will be used. We believe that you can, if you will, help make The Davidsonian a better paper, and we
are counting on you as loyal graduates to give us this assistance. The publication is not only ours; it is
yours. Help us make it a success.

A GENTLEMAN’S AGREEMENT.

If Professor Graham did nothing else in his recent visit to the campus, he at least made every man who
heard him speak, stop and think, a feat that is certainly hard to accomplish in this day of multitudinous college
activities. To say that a man who does not put out his best in his studies is untrue to himself,
to his country, and to his God, is certainly a broad statement, and yet it is true, every word of
it. And, judging by this statement, there are about 98 per cent traitors and slackers on this campus. What is
the reason for this lack of study nowadays? “Never let your studies interfere with your college course,” seems to have
become the motto of all today, to a greater or less extent.

The reasons are many, and the writer is not trying to point out all of them in this short article,
but will only mention one that is very evident to even the casual onlooker. That is the fact that a
man has not the proper place to do the right kind of studying. Not that he hasn't a table to
put his book on, a chair to sit on, and a light to help his eyes; but there is entirely
too much going on around him for him to do any real concentrating. Too much noise in his own room,
in the room next to him, in the dormitory across the way. If he wants to do real hard work,
he must do it, in a great many cases, in spite of his environment and not because of it.

What is the remedy? As we see it, there is one. That is that every man on the campus enter
into a gentleman's agreement to observe the hours from 8:00 till 12:00 in the evening sacred to study. That during
that time, he refrain from visiting anyone who is trying to get up his lessons for the next day, that
he cut out all noises that will bother others, and that most of all he himself spend most of that
time working his own brain and getting it in the best running condition possible by exercising it. Only then can
we have a new interest in the matter of study, can we shoot the professors more regularly, can we give
the honor roll a better list. The cause—the remedy—what are you going to do?

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Kathryn Worth left last week to assume her duties as English teacher in Charleston, W. Va.

Miss Frances Worth will spend the winter in Richmond, Va., at the Assembly’s Training School.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin attended the meeting of the Concord Presbytery at Valdese last week and from there went to
Hendersonville to spend the weekend.

Mrs. C. G. Vardell and Miss Mamie Steele, of Red Springs, were visitors in town over Sunday.

Mrs. Lola Johnston has given up her position as teacher of the sixth grade. Her place will be taken by
Miss Richardson, of Mocksville.

Knowledge’s Boundaries.

I know the name of every town in these United States,
I remember names and faces, I am always sure of dates,
I still can recollect the taste of Harvey's Finest Blend,
I spout the Canterbury Tales and Shakespeare without end.
I have the kind of mind you thought was David Roth’s alone—perhaps none is more difficult nor more | 2¥t!
I can't think of the number when I want to telephone. I can whistle a cadenza that I heard a
year ago. There isn’t a philosopher whose work I don’t know. I know the names of birds and trees and
animals and herbs. I am a shark at German nouns, a wonder at French verbs. I know the kings of
Saxony and such-like useless bull—few more members to add to its depleted list. Dr. and Mrs. Porter spent the week-end.

A DAY'S WORK AND A DAY’S WAGE.

Two men, two days’ work, two spirits in working, two kinds of wages! One man works as “an hireling,” toiling
mechanically and only for his “dollar,” longing for the “shadow” and the flung-down tools. The other, a man, not a
machine, interested, animated, inspired, works as artist, idealist, enthusiast. For the setting sun comes all too soon. “John Jones, what
do you get out of a day's work?” “A dollar or two, curse it! Hard work and poor pay!” “John
Wesley, thou busiest man in England, what do you get out of your 18-hour day’s work?” “Everything, bless God! Joy,
strength, inspiration, divine reward—everything! Glorious work and big pay!” It’s all in the way you look at it.

I. Life is a day's work. It is “a day’s work,” for every man must work. That is the inflexible
law of the universe. Christ said: “My Father worketh hitherto and I work.” The angels ceaselessly. The living creatures “rest
not day nor night.” Man must work on earth and in heaven he must serve. Work is the law of
being, the condition of health, the privilege of power, the joy of life. And even those who foolishly seek to
escape working work the hardest of all, and suffer the uttermost of weariness. Each man must work; the question is
whether he will work as “an hireling” or work as a hero, whether his work shall be drudgery or shall
be delight. And it rests with him to decide.

II. For his day’s work of life every man “receiveth wages.” Yes; no man works in God's world and gets
no pay! And the pay is to “every man according as his work.” Wages are absolutely adjusted to work. There
are no favorites and no prejudices; no “soft snaps with big pay” for some, nor “hard berths with poor pickings”
for others. On superficial view this statement may not seem to be true; but it is true, and absolutely. Money
isn't the only wage, nor the best. Longfellow didn't get as much gold as Jay Gould; but he drew bigger
“wages.” Paul of the mighty soul didn’t make as much money as a modern millionaire, but he was better paid
and got more out of life. “Every man shall receive his own reward, according to his own labor.”

III. Every man chooses his own day's work in life and so determines what his own wages shall be. And
that, whether he be millionaire or bootblack. “Two women shall be grinding at the mill;” set at the same task,
one grows into spiritual glory, the other shrivels into a starving soul. Both choose. Two men shall sit side by
side at the directors’ table of the greatest steel company in the world; one is a close follower of Jesus,
the other a purse-proud materialist. Each chooses his own way and his pay. Their life surroundings are similar; their chosen
“day's work” and “day’s wages” in life are absolute contraries. Elijah was an idealist because he chose to be; Ahab
was a materialist at his own choice; and both received their appropriate “wages” in this world—and no doubt in the
other!

IV. What, then, to us is the measure of Labor Day?
1. That labor is the common heritage of man, but may be a slavery or a splendor according to our
spirit.
2. That life itself is just a “day’s work,” with “a day’s wages.” That the main question is, how we
look at our work; what we see in it; what we put into it; what are our ideals, aspirations, enthusiasms;
in other words, what “wages” we ask for our life’s day’s work—the pay of “an hireling” who works for dollars
only, or the pay of a hero who works for the Highest?
3. And that all life is worthy which is wrought for noble ends, be the sphere of service high or
low. Browning pictures Theocrite, bending at his bench pounding shoes and singing the while, “Praise God!”—Theocrite is carried away to
Rome; and then at God's behest the great archangel Gabriel “spreads his wings and sinks to earth,” takes upon him
the form of Theocrite, and in his lonely cell pounds shoes and sings, “Praise God!” As well content is he,
since he does God's will, to toil at a cobbler’s bench as to stand with splendid seeming in the sun.
And his “wages” are the same in either sphere. With this conviction “life becomes great; labor becomes holy, being done
for God. Splendid inspirations fill even the humblest sphere with divine meaning; and as we go out into fields of
lowly service where the spiritual grain is white unto the harvest we are thrilled by the wondrous words of Christ,
“He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit into life eternal!” “And they that be teachers shall shine as the
brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever.”—Rev. Robert C.
Hallock, D.D. in The Expositor.

But I never know which door to push, and which I ought to pull. —Ex.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

“PEP.” (By Grace G. Bostwick.)

Vigor, vitality, vim and punch—
That's pep.
The courage to act on a sudden hunch—
That's pep.
The nerve to tackle the hardest thing,
With feet that climb, and hands that cling,
And a heart that never forgets to sing.
That's pep.
Sand and grit in a concrete base—
That's pep.
Friendly smile on an honest face—
That’s pep.
The spirit that helps when another's down,
That knows how to scatter the darkest frown,
That loves its neighbor and loves its town.
That's pep.
To say “I will,” for you know you can—
That's pep.
To look for the best in every man—
That's pep.
To meet each thundering knockout blow
And come back with a laugh, because you know,
You'll get the best of the whole darn show,
That's pep.

The Football World

There is a lurking suspicion in the minds of many modest men and women that somehow God made a little
mistake when He fashioned them. They think that the Almighty justified Himself when He made geniuses, and heroes, and all
earth’s greatest and most talented sons, but they do not see just why God made so many commonplace people like
themselves. But God made no blunder. There could be no geniuses if there were no common people to look after
them and help them. The blade of grass is just as useful in its sphere as the pine or the
palm. The infinite and the infinitesimal are alike part of the divine plan. And it is folly for us to
underrate ourselves and to wish that God had made us something other than we are, and it is worse folly
to try to copy someone else. God, who made us, made us wisely, and He meant us to fill our
own special niche, and, in doing that, we shall find our greatest satisfaction and our highest usefulness. If the world
had not needed just the service we can render, we should not be here, and God expects that each man
will do his own work.—The Christian Guardian.

“What is the reason,” began the irritated traveler from the North, “that the trains in this part of the country
are always behind time? I have never seen one yet that ran according to its schedule.” “That, suh,” said the
dignified Mississippian, “is a matter easily explained. It is due to Southern chivalry, suh.” “Southern chivalry! Where does that come
in?” “You see, suh, the trains are always late in this country because they wait for the ladies, bless them!"—Harper's
Magazine.

“Tips, tips, nothing but tips!” cried the Frenchman on his first visit to New York, “First the waiter, then the
maid, then the porter!” He was about fed up. In one place, where he went to wash his hands, he
saw the sign, “Please tip the basin.” “I will not do it!” he fumed, “I will go dirty first, yes.”—Harper’s
Magazine.
