SAY HOWDY JUNIOR | THE DAY FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

SONIAN PLUCK PC’s PLUMES

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 29, 1921. No. 4

Successful Chautauqua Program Brought to Close
Twenty Citizens Guarantors for Next Year’s Tent Performances

Two performances each day on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week brought Davidson’s Chautauqua program to a close. The opportunity afforded by the entertainments to townspeople and students was enjoyed and appreciated a great deal.

Tuesday Afternoon.
On Tuesday afternoon, September 20, the Radcliffe Chautauqua presented its third performance. The spacious tent was very nearly filled and everyone was more than repaid for his time, trouble and money. Mr. Moomaw led off with a very snappy number on the accordion. His number was very judiciously selected, consisting of operatic, sentimental and jazz selections. Among his best were “I Never Knew,” “Danny Boy” and “I’m Nobody’s Baby.” He was followed by Mr. Plumstead, who impersonated everything from a baby to a woman. His numbers were varied, some sentimental and some ludicrous, of which the latter were very much in the majority. Among the sentimental, his best was a tale of the North Woods, in which the prayers of a pious mother figured largely. “The Morning Mail” was by far his best humorous selection. The pianologues of Miss Shepherd were enjoyed by everyone. The program ended with a few short stories, which were enjoyed very much by the little folks.

Tuesday Night.
The Radcliffe Chautauqua performance on Tuesday night was one in which an unlooked-for actor took part. This actor was an electric storm, which gave the program a decidedly unique touch. In the midst of the first number the lights went off, and illumination was provided only by lanterns until some car owner conceived the idea of running the hood of his machine in the front entrance of the tent and throwing his searchlight on the stage. The first feature of the evening was a lecture by Dr. Gilver on “The American Social Ideal,” or “How to Live Happily Together.” He showed that the social problem of this country is an ever-present one and far more basic than either the political or the industrial problem.

(Continued on page 2)

SEVEN NEW MEN TAKEN INTO OMICRON DELTA KAPPA RANK

At a recent meeting of the Davidson chapter the following new members were taken into the Omicron Delta Kappa: Dr. Frank Brown, of Trinity, Dr. Grey, Dr. J. M. Douglas, J. C. Bailey, J. S. Curry, R. R. Deaver, D. R. LaFar, and J. P. Price. The old members are: Dr. Martin, Dr. Sentelle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dwight Chalmers, Coach Grey, Coach Hengeveld, J. M. Richards, J. M. McFadden and T. M. Lowry. Omicron Delta Kappa was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914. The purpose of the organization is to fill the need of some honorary organization to give suitable recognition to men who have gained distinction in college life and to bring them into a closer friendship. It strives to promote a better college spirit and a greater zeal for the upbuilding of the student life. At the end of each year the organization presents a medal to the member of the Senior class who has done the most for the college during his four college years.

Dr. Frank Graham Appeals for Thorough Scholarship
Professor of History at State University Makes Great Address at Y Service

The “Y” enjoyed one of the most enthusiastic and instructive meetings of the year Sunday evening, when Dr. Frank Graham, of the University of North Carolina, spoke on “The Place of Scholarship in College Life.” Dr. Graham is an alumnus of Carolina. He served in the Marine Corps during the war and is now associate professor of history at the University. While he is a young man in years, Dr. Graham has had unusual opportunities of observation and spoke as a man of authority. He spoke of a college man’s duty to his books as related to his other college activities. Quoting ex-President Wilson, he said that college men all over America are allowing the side shows of college activities to crowd out the main circus of books and classes. He said college men are allowing incidentals to take the place of fundamentals. As examples of students who have succeeded because of application, our last three Presidents were pointed out. Some younger men, alumni of well-known colleges of the South, were also cited. As the central theme of his address, Dr. Graham pointed out that our college life is shaped primarily to teach us application and concentration, and that these things can be learned nowhere so well as at our books. The entire audience felt the power of this reasoning and each one resolved to apply himself more diligently hereafter. Let us all keep these good resolutions. The price of leadership is hard work and we are all preparing to be leaders.

Glee Club Itinerary and Program Has Been Fixed
Four Points to be Visited, Several Freshmen on Club

Under the able leadership of D. P. McGeachy the Glee Club will present on its trips this year one of the best programs that it has ever arranged. Besides the usual “College Days” and popular songs it will offer a burlesque on the sextette from Lucia, and the mandolin club will aid with several numbers. The management also plans to work up a vaudeville act. Only one concert has been definitely arranged but the other engagements are pending and are practically settled. The club starts on its trip on November 7, giving its first concert at Flora Macdonald. Oxford High School, N. C. C. W., and Salem College are the other stopping places. This is the only trip of any length that the club can make this year as it is allowed but seven days during the entire year, and this trip will consume six of them. The management is planning, however, to give concerts this spring to nearby places at which it will be profitable to make the trip and which can be reached without missing any classes. The new men have not been definitely picked but it is certain that there will be six of the Freshman class who will make these trips and fill the places left vacant by the men that graduated last year. The places in the quartet, left vacant by Law and Vance are being filled this year by Jones and Raker.

Year of Worthwhile Work Begins in Military Unit
Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers Named by Major Hearn

Major Hearn has quickly organized the R. O. T. C. this fall and things have started off with a rush. Clothing was issued two weeks ago and the battalion certainly looks good in regulation uniform. The work of the last two weeks has been instruction in the simpler military drills, chiefly for the Freshman class. Rifles will be issued this week and more complicated movements will be taken up. The R. O. T. C. has bright prospects this year and it is expected to do the students much good. A new system has been adopted in regard to the cadet officers this year. Promotion to and holding of commissioned and non-commissioned offices will be for merit only. In the past, it has been the custom for Seniors to be captains, Juniors to be lieutenants, and so forth. So this year, a cadet officer may be assured that he has won his commission only by merit, and this system gives everyone a chance to go to the top. On September 20th Major Hearn announced the following personnel for the battalion:

Cadet Batt. Commander, Maj. J. W. Phillips.
Cadet Adjutant, Capt. J. P. Price.
Cadet Per. Adjutant, Lt. S. D. Story.
Cadet Supply Officer, Lt. R. Bitzer.
Cadet Bn. Sergt. Major, F. C. Thames.
Cadet Per. Supply Officer, L. H. Roberts.
Cadet Color Sergt., W. P. Kimsey.
Band Leader, Lt. G. N. Neel.

Officers of Company “A”:
Cadet Captain, J. M.Richards, Cadet 1st Lt. W. S. W. Moore. Cadet 1st Lt. K. E. W. Tufts. Cadet 2nd Lt. J. R. Jones. Cadet 2nd Lt. J. L. Parks. Cadet 1st Sergt. L. P. Burney. Bn. Supply Sergt., C. P. Wild.

Officers of Company B:
Cadet Captain, T. M. Lowry. Cadet 1st Lt. E. K. B. McGukin. Cadet 1st Lt. M. W. Doggett. Cadet 2nd Lt. J. C. B. McLaughlin. Cadet 1st Sergt., D. W.

Officers of Company C:
Cadet Captain, R. R. McIlwaine. Cadet 1st Lt. R. J. Knight. Cadet 1st Lt. A. C. Summers. Cadet 2nd Lt. D. H. Ogden.

(Continued on page 6)

Bound Copies of Davidson College Magazine: Received Interesting Addition Made to Reading Matter in the Library

The Davidson College Magazines for the last college year have been received at the Library from the binders, and, after having been catalogued and conveniently arranged on the shelves in the magazine room, are now ready for the students. These magazines contain many interesting topics, topics that should be of especial interest to Davidson students, particularly the new men who would like to know more of Davidson’s past literary activities. This is only one of the recent additions to the already numerous attractions of the Library, and all students will find it well worth their while to spend some time in the magazine room.

Dr. Frank Brown Delivers Lecture on State Folklore
Trinity Professor Assisted by Mrs. Pharr and Mr. Hall of Charlotte

Dr. Frank Brown, Professor of English at Trinity College, and the foremost of folklore collectors of the Carolinas, addressed the students and townspeople of Davidson last Monday evening in Shearer Hall, on the popular subject of Folklore, Folk-song, and Ballad. For a number of years Professor Brown has felt a keen interest in assembling the fast disappearing ballads and bits of lore which are truly characteristic of the people of the Southern States, and much of his time and thought has been devoted to the interest of this collection. It was through him that the North Carolina Folklore Society was formed, thereby placing before the attention of the people the matter of folklore collection.

Doctor Brown, in the course of his lecture, presented a general survey of the folklore of the state, and conveyed to his hearers the true regard for the term “Folklore,” explaining that its meaning had to do not only with superstition and the supernatural, but also with interesting bits of knowledge and facts that have not been recorded in the annals of history, but that are concerned, either directly or indirectly, in our everyday life. He appealed to the students of Davidson for their aid in the collection of these bits of lore, thereby preserving to posterity a touch of our traditional literature.

The folk-songs sung by Mrs. H. N. Pharr, of Charlotte, proved to be one of the most interesting features of the program. Mrs. Pharr is contralto soloist of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. She was accompanied by Frederic Hall.

(Continued on page 6)

Wireless Station Bought and Installed by Students
Ben Team of Navy Experience to Operate the Station

A dream long cherished by Davidson has at last become a reality; Davidson has finally secured a wireless station. Work began on the establishment of this wireless last Saturday, but due to trouble in the “hook-up,” it was not connected up in time to secure the reports from the Davidson-Virginia game. The receiving set is of the Paragon System, the latest model placed upon the market, and is capable of receiving from high power stations from all over the world. It is also capable of receiving wireless telephone messages. The transmitter is 1-2 kilowatt run on 110 volt alternating current. The rotary gap is used. This transmitter is to be replaced later by an apparatus of a much higher power. The site for the antennae has not been definitely decided upon, but it is very probable that it will be strung from the flagpole to Shearer Hall. In this case, the station will be located in the basement of Shearer Hall.

The wireless will be operated by B. L. Team, of the Sophomore class. He has had two years’ experience in an amateur station of his own, and 27 months as an operator in the U. S. Navy. By means of this wireless, it will be possible to obtain play-by-play reports from practically all of the remaining football games on Davidson’s schedule and also the scores of all other big college games throughout the country. In addition to these scores, the press dispatches and intercollegiate news, which are sent out every night at 10 o'clock, will be received and posted on prominent bulletin boards.

Virginia Defeats Wildcats in Opening Football Game
Red and Black Warriors Make Good Showing Despite Score

By squeezing over a touchdown in the last 15 seconds of play, the University of Virginia succeeded in making the count 28 to 0 and taking the opening contest of the 1921 football season from the Davidson Presbyterians. The Virginians scored in each of the first two periods and twice in the last. Two of their touchdowns were made via the aerial route, one was the result of a blocked punt, while another was made by running plays. Davidson's best chance to score came in the third quarter, when she succeeded in carrying the ball to her opponent's 30-yard line. But the necessary punch was lacking and the ball was lost on downs.

It is agreed by all who saw the game that the 28-0 score is no true indication of the relative strength of the two teams. Virginia undoubtedly had the strongest team; her twelve pounds to the man advantage in weight and unlimited reserves counting heavily in her favor. At the same time, the fight and spirit of the Wildcats was a factor to be reckoned with throughout the game. The driving aerial attack of the Virginians was the outstanding feature of their play. Two touchdowns were the direct result of this style of attack, and it paved the way for another. The Old Dominion opened with her repertoire of forward passes early in the game and a touchdown six minutes after the kickoff was the result. In the second period, they doubled their score when Shackleford blocked one of Long's punts. In the third quarter, the Carolinians made their most successful try for victory. Early in the final period, the Virginians scored their third touchdown on a series of line plays and end runs. In the closing moments of the game, they got their last tally on a sensational forward pass to Davis.

Although defeated rather badly, there were many redeeming features of the Wildcats’ play. They had nine first downs to their credit and Virginia went them but four better in this respect. Long averaged between 55 and 60 yards on his punts. The Charlotte lad also slipped through center for the Wildcats’ longest gain, going 15 yards before he was stopped. Schenck also did excellent work both on the offense and the defense. He gathered in several passes for gains of from five to 12 yards. The defensive work of Davis and LaFar also featured. Although unable to get around Davis—six feet five inches long, and Michie—

(Continued on page 2)

* * * * * * * * * * * *
CALENDAR.
* * *
Thursday—7:30 p.m.: Phi Society.
* *
Thursday—7:30 p.m.: Eu Society.
* *
Friday—3:30 p.m.: Wildcats vs. P. C. at Davidson.
* *
Saturday—7:30 p.m.: Movie: “The Affairs of Anatol.”
* *
Sunday—10 a.m.: Volunteer Band.
* *
Sunday—3:30 p.m.: Bible Class.
* *
Sunday—6:15 p.m.: “Y” Meeting. Bellingrath and Hamilton, Speak.
* *
Monday—7:15 p.m.: Fresh Section of Eu Society.
* *
Wednesday—8 p.m.: Bible Classes.
* * * * * * * * * * * *

MAKE THE BLUE STOCKINGS FEEL BLUE!