FOR A BETTER DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 4, 1921. No. 21

Eighteen Delegates Represent Davidson at State Volunteer Conference

New Visions of Life Service Caught by Many Students—Unusually Strong Speakers Held Places on Program

The Student Volunteer Conference, in session at Trinity College from February 25th through February 27th, was marked by addresses by
the leading spirits in the mission world. The 18 delegates from Davidson have returned with stories of deeper consecration and
a new vision of life service. The whole conference caught the spirit of the motto, “The evangelization of the world
in this generation.”

Friday's Session.

Devotional exercises conducted by Rev. C. N. Hounshell began the first session Friday night. Due to the illness of President
Few, of Trinity, the address of welcome was delivered by Prof. James Cannon, of the Bible Department of Trinity. D.
W. Roberts, of Davidson, president of the conference, responded on behalf of the delegates.

The address of the evening was delivered by Dr. Egbert W. Smith, on the subject of the “Challenge of the
Missionary Call to Young Men and Women.” Dr. Smith asked the question, “What shall I do with my life?” He
answered this question by many striking parables and impressed the point that “all ambitions which interfere with the realization of
a life of service are a sin.”

Saturday Morning.

Fay Campbell, of Yale, traveling secretary of the movement, gave a speech on “Missionary Work in Our Colleges.” He used
general discussions and an open forum to bring out his points. The four words, “Know, Pray, Pay, Go,” constituted his
theme and many helpful suggestions were offered by the different delegations for the more effective pursuance of their work.

Rev. S. W. Erickson, a Presbyterian missionary to Japan, next spoke on “The Gospel in Action.” The moral and religious
life of our progressive brother across the Pacific was vividly shown and Mr. Erickson made an appeal for more workers
to direct this rising country in the ways of Christ.

Saturday Afternoon.

Beginning the afternoon session with (Continued on page 3)

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON ENTERTAINED AT BANQUET BY DR. ARBUCKLE

Setting aside its more serious problems, the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity on last Monday was the guest of Dr.
and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle at a banquet luncheon, served in the home of the host and hostess.

While enjoying the delicious four-course dinner, prepared by the competent hands of the hostess, the guests were entertained by the
several witty and humorous toasts of Dr. Arbuckle. The host also made a short talk on the brilliant prospects for
a glowing future of the fraternity and offered several well-directed suggestions as to how it can improve conditions locally.

After retiring from the festive table, an informal discussion was entered upon in which it was decided to try to
get Dr. Remsen, president of Johns Hopkins University, to deliver an address to the student body sometime in April. The
occasion was enjoyed by all, thanks to Dr. Arbuckle and his wife, who planned an ideal evening and consequently fanned
the flame of warm friendship which the students hold toward them.

MANY ARTICLES OF UNUSUAL MAGAZINE FOR MARCH

All Indications Point to a

The March issue of the Davidson College Magazine came out on time. This issue of the magazine is full of
clever short stories. “Bought at 24.76” is probably the best college life story published in the magazine in some time.
If this story does not keep you guessing there’s something wrong with you.

Have you ever been to the Yellowstone National Park? If you haven't, read the description of the first day’s journey
into that magnificent park in “Yellowstone National Park.” If you have, read it and learn how it impresses other people.

“Envy or Pity?” is an interesting essay on the upbringing of missionaries’ children. Can you answer the question: Envy or
pity? Then read this article.

The student who wrote “Orange Rum” is to be envied for his ability to write negro dialect. Boys, “read ‘em,
an’ weep!”

The next issue of the magazine goes to press on the 16th of March. The staff requests that all contributions
be sent in before the 14th. Every type of magazine work is acceptable: short stories, essays, and especially poetry. Fellows,
let's fill the next issue with short stories just as good as those in this month’s issue. And how about
that poetry? Just put those thoughts about “her” and everything on paper, and hand ’em in. C’mon, ain't spring here!

Large Number of Men Answer First Call for Baseball Candidates

Eight Letter Men Back to Contend for Positions — Prospects Especially Good for Strong Staff of Pitchers and Catchers

Last Thursday the call was issued for all men going out for pitcher, catcher or outfield positions to report at
Sprunt field promptly at 3 o'clock. The result was, about 10 pitchers, 30 outfielders and three catchers. The first afternoon's
practice consisted mainly of “pep” games, warming pitchers and chasing flies in the outfield.

The new pitchers are being coached in position by the members of last year’s pitching staff, consisting of “Bill” Miley,
“Buck” Currie, Norman Shepard and George Sorrells. All of last season's twirlers are back and also some promising new men
are showing up well. The bulk of the pitching will probably rest upon “Bill” Miley, captain of this year's nine,
“Buck” Currie and Norman Shepard. All of these men did fine mound work last season and are expected to deliver
the goods this year.

The catcher’s position is not quite so popular as the pitcher, there being only three out for that position. “Sim”
Wrenn who was the “star” performer behind the plate last year, is back and showing all kinds of stuff. “Cop”
Johnson another stellar backstop on last year's nine is out fighting for the receiving end. Washam, a new man, prominent
among Cornelius baseball circles is a candidate for catcher. Judging from this the Wildcats are to have no trouble behind
the bat.

Coach Hengeveld’s healthy swing is driving the outfielders clear back to the fence. Some of them would make the famous
Tyrus look like a back number. The whole squad is divided up and sent out one squad at a time,
each man getting a chance to show his fielding ability. It seems that Davidson is going to have a nice
fielding outfield, if (Continued on page 2)

Juniors. Successful Junior Speaking

Many Events Arranged for Entertainment of Visitors at Annual Exercises

When the time for Junior Speaking began to draw near the Juniors put their heads together and, as a result,
have sprung an entirely new scheme for the occasion. Although it is new, it has all the earmarks of a
huge success. The student body is looking forward to it and praying that the flow of “old taurus” will take
the place of the usual flow of “aqua pura.”

“Fire” will be the dominating feature, thanks to the kind invitation of the When those trains roll in on Friday
there will be many a happy reunion and as the “only one” steps off “the Jaybirdsville Special,” things will brighten
up and from then on things will hum.

On Friday night and Saturday morning the select orators of the Junior class will contend for a much coveted ‘rep.”
In order to make this speaking a success it is up to all of the students to attend both sections
of speaking. Music will be furnished by our famous “Jazz” orchestra.

Although Clemson has called off their game with the Wildcats for Friday night, Manager Miley is working hard to get
a good game arranged so that the fair damsels will have the privilege of seeing the Wildcats in action. The
Glee Club will oblige all comers with some select numbers on Saturday afternoon. The college songsters have been practicing up
on other people and should be able to put their part across in first class order. The Dramatic Club will
give two plays Saturday night. Professor Erwin has been working tirelessly on these andIt is certain that they will both
be excellent. After the plays, the main social event of the weekend will follow. The Juniors will give a reception
in the gym, and from 10 to 11:30 there will be a genial good time. The faculty, Junior class, and
all students with guests are requested to be present. The Juniors have started something new, and it is up to
the student body to make it a success.

The program is as follows:
Friday—7:00 p.m., First Section Junior Speaking, 9:00 p.m., Basketball Game, Davidson vs. —
Saturday—10:00 a.m., Second Section Junior Speaking. 4:00 p.m., Glee Club Concert. 8:00 p.m., Plays by Dramatic Club. Music by Band.
10-11:30 p.m., Reception in Gymnasium.

The following men are to speak on Friday night and Saturday morning:
Eumenean Society: J. C. Bailey, R. Bitzer, C. E. Cunningham, E. B. McGukin, P. D. Miller, J. W. Phillips, J.
P. Price, J. M. Richards, M. M. Erwin, alternate.
Philanthropic Society: J. I. Knight, J. H. McKeithen, W. M. McLeod, W. K. McCain, G. N. Neal, L. A. Taylor,
J. C. Wool, L. A. Wooten, T. A. Freeman, alternate.

Rev. A. J. Cook, of Cape Town, Africa, while touring the United States recently gathering facts regarding the results of
prohibition in this country, said that in South Africa, prohibition had become an issue already. The drys there hope for
a new law allowing some form of local option in another five years. Five years later, or in 1930, they
hope to have prohibition measures enacted into law.

NORTH CAROLINA INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION PLANS FOR WRITING CONTEST

Who's to be the lucky fellow? Why not you? The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association is offering a “Writing Contest”
for all regular contributors of a member publication. The winners of the contest will get a big write-up in the
newspapers and magazines that are members of the association. There shall be two writing contests held each college year. One
contest shall be held in the field of the college newspapers, and the second in the field of the literary
magazines. Any member of the staffs of the college publications shall be eligible to enter either of these contests, as
will also any regular contributor to a member publication. All entrants into these contests shall submit their material to their
respective literary magazine editor or newspaper editor by April first. To be considered in the magazine contest, each entrant must
submit either a short story, sketch, or verse. For the newspaper, either a straight news item, opinion, or feature story.
The basis of judging shall be: thought, rhetoric, and style. The winners of this contest will get a write-up equal
to the ones given men in “Who's Who in America;" so why not collect your literary thoughts and give this
a try?

Hipple Concert Company Presents Best Lyceum Course of Year
Program of Instrumental Music by Four Artists Furnishes Real Treat

Last Monday night in Shearer Hall, C. H. Long presented, as the fourth number of the Redpath Lyceum course, The
Hipple Concert Company. Without a doubt, the Hipple organization is the best that has been seen in Davidson for several
years. The company numbered four, being composed of three men and one woman, and every one of them was an
artist. Although Mr. Hipple was featured as the “Wizard of Xylophone,” it seems that he was even more a master
of the slide trombone. Mr. Knudson on the violin and flute, Mr. Skinner on the cornet, and Mrs. Hipple on
the piano were not far behind their leader. The program, as rendered, was exceedingly well balanced. There was neither too
much nor too little of the standard and classical. Every well-rounded program must contain a few of the old standbys.
Mr. Hipple was exceedingly fortunate in his choice, for the selection from “Il Trovatore” and the standard solos seemed to
please the audience. Wisely refraining from the too blatant of the modern compositions, the company sought to entertain a certain
class with “Margy” and other numbers of like class. One feature of the solo renditions was the effective support rendered
to the soloist by the other members of the company. It is a lamentable fact that in the usual Lyceum
company, the soloist is usually left to shift for himself. In this respect, due note should be taken of the
work of Mrs. Hipple at the piano. Her support of Mr. Knudson in his flute solo “The Nightingale” was especially
noticeable. And again, when the whole company gave Dvorak’s immortal “Humoresque,” Mr. Hipple varied it very pleasingly with a trombone
accompaniment of “Swanee River.” As a technical stunt, Mr. Hipple’s rendition of Liszt’s “Second Hungarian Rhapsody” as a xylophone solo
will long be remembered. When the artists worked ensemble (Continued on page 2)

WE BID YOU WELCOME, VISITORS:

Wildcats Overwhelm the Charlotte “Y” by Score of 55 to 11
Entire Team Furnishes Remarkable Exhibition of Teamwork and Passing

In their second game of this season with the Charlotte “Y,” Davidson came out victorious on the college court last
Friday night by a score of 55 to 11, thus making up for a defeat suffered at the “Trianglars’” hands,
32 to 24 points, earlier in the season. The Red and Black machine was at its best and ran away
with the “Y” five by their fast passing and unusual accuracy in shooting. The playing of the Charlotte bunch was
of no mean order, as they were especially fast in their teamwork, up and down the floor, and were also
very good in their passing, but lost out on account of being unable to find the basket with their shots,
most of which were attempted from a long distance. The Wildcats soon wound up in the first period and gained
the lead by shooting the first field goal followed by several others, the first half ending 32 to 7 in
their favor. The Red and White bunch came back in the second half and started off with a rush but
were unable to break up the shooting of the Wildcats, nor were they able to get away from the close
guarding of their opponents who refused to allow them close-up shots. For the Charlotte “Y,” Howell showed up well both
as a center and later at forward, often dribbling almost the entire length of the floor at a rapid pace.
The work of Cuthbertson is worthy of note, his guarding being very effective in hindering the Wildcats’ passing. For Davidson,
Roberts and J. Schenck were going good; Roberts piling up 32 points in his usual manner. Crawford, as the running
guard, covered the floor very effectively and aided not only in offense by making 13 points, but also did well
on the defensive, aiding L. Schenck who kept the Charlotte forwards a safe distance from the goal. Davis played a
steady game at center both on the defensive and the offensive. The game was clean and fast, furnishing a much
better exhibit of basketball than the score would indicate.

Davidson (55) Charlotte “Y” (11)
J. Schenck (10) ........ Marsh (2) R. F
Roberts (32) .......... Stewart (3) L. F
Davis ................. Howell (6) C
Crawford (13) ........ Cunningham L. G
L. Schenck ............ Carr L. G

Substitutions: Cuthbertson for Stewart, Stewart for Marsh, Keesler for Stewart. For Davidson: De Armond for L. Schenck, McConnell for Roberts,
McDonald for J. Schenck. Referee: Chalmers, Davidson.

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.
Thursday—6:45 p.m. Phi Literary Society.
7:00 p.m., Movies.
Friday—7:15 p.m., First Section of Junior Speaking.
8:15 p.m., Basketball: Davidson vs. ? at Davidson.
Saturday—11:00 a.m., Second Section of Junior Speaking.
4:00 p.m., Glee Club Concert.
8:00 p.m., Play by Dramatic Club.
9:30 p.m., General Reception at Gymnasium.
Sunday—10:00 a.m. Bible Study Classes.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
