4 The DAVIDSONIAN | Open Form | Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 5 P.M. on Tuesday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. M. Richards.................Editor-in-Chief
W. A. Gamble, Jr.............Managing Editor
H. H. Smith.....................Assistant Managing Editor
R. F. Davidson.................Assignment Editor
A. C. Ormond..................Athletic Editor
A. C. Summers.................Alumni Editor
J. H. McKeithen...............Exchange Editor
J. P. Price.........................Forum Editor
M. R. Doubles..................Campus Editor
J.C. Bailey, Jr..................Y. M. C. A. Editor
J. Sprunt..........................Social Editor
D. H. Ogden, Jr.................Literary Editor
W. J. Cooper....................Publicity Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Mitchell, A. M. Cunningham, C. E. Long, C. G. Morris, H. M. Jones, J. R. Mahood, D. L. Phillips, J. W. King, A. D. Mauze, G. W. Tuller, C. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. S. CURRY...................Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL....................Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“Success comes to the man who gives more than he receives.”

The Wofford game last Monday might well have been termed “A Comedy of Errors” from the number of miscues charged to both teams.

Every man who can possibly make the trip should be in Charlotte next Saturday to back the Wildcats against N. C. State. Let’s show the Queen City that we are still on the map.

With only six weeks of class work left before the beginning of final examinations, it behooves us all to get down to real work.

In behalf of the Student Body, we wish to thank Columbia Seminary for the interest manifested in our welfare by the sending of their splendid quartette and speakers. They brought a message which will not soon be forgotten by anyone who attended the “Y” service Sunday night.

FOR THE LACK OF THOUGHT

A proposition was placed before the Student Body under the terms of which Easter Monday was promised as a holiday, if enough men were willing to agree to return from Winston-Salem on the special train to be operated on the night of that date. In response to this call, one hundred and three men signed their names to the petition, and thus signified their intention of making use of this opportunity. Accepting this promise in good faith, the faculty granted the holiday, and the special train was secured. When the time came for the train to leave Winston-Salem, however, eighty-one of these signers failed to show up, and the Athletic Association was left to bear a loss of almost two hundred dollars.

Had there been only a few men to fail in keeping their promise, such an occurrence might have been excused. There are many unforeseen incidents which might at the last moment have prevented some student, who had honestly intended going, from making the trip. That such could have been the case with eighty percent of those who planned to go, however, is an inconceivable occurrence. A great majority of those who failed to keep the agreement must either have had no intention of living up to it, or did not consider the keeping of their word as of sufficient importance to warrant their going to any inconvenience whatever.

Whether these men realized it or not, their action amounted to little more than the stealing of this amount from their more honest fellow students, who refused to sign an agreement which they could not keep. The Davidson Athletic Association could ill afford the loss brought upon it, and this shortage can only mean that the students will be deprived of seeing at least two games which would otherwise have been brought to the campus next year. Thus the many must suffer for the sins of the few.

We do not believe that such a number of Davidson students would deliberately be guilty of an act of this nature, for surely there is something fundamentally wrong with the principles of a man who can practice such a deception. Rather, we are inclined to the opinion that the incident was caused by a lack of thought on the part of these students. And yet such carelessness is in itself almost criminal, and cannot be excused as such. We believe that the men who signed the petition should be called on to make good this loss to the amount of their railroad fare, and that the Student Body should take adequate steps to protect itself from such an occurrence in the future.

WANTED: A YELL.

The need has long been felt at Davidson for a real good, distinctive college yell. The game last Monday certainly showed that the old spirit was present, everybody was yelling as loud as he could; yet, at times there was a feeling that the yells we have aren’t enough. When Buck hit his two-bagger, when Brown made his third hit, when Hunter fanned his seventh man, Haka-raka, the Locomotive, the Sky-rocket, didn’t seem to quite express all we felt. We wanted something bigger and better, something that we wouldn’t use just on any occasion, but one that when we did yell it or hear it would make those little shivers run up and down our backs. A yell that could well stand by the side of “O Davidson.”

Why can’t we have such a yell? There are bound to be some men in this student body who could make up one if they were just pushed to do it. Why couldn’t the Athletic Association or the Davidsonian get back of this? Why couldn’t some prizes be offered as an incentive to this work? Right now the very yell we want is lying in the brain of some man on the campus and it’s up to somebody to get it out. Who’s going to do it?

Rube.

HOW IT LOOKS

From infancy, if Presbyterians, we have been attending church services. Up to the time that we were 15 or more, our fathers and mothers took good care of us in the old family pew. But then we had to go through the “gang spirit period,” and at this time the “Old Folks” let us sit on the back seat with Jim and Dick. Yes, it did feel big, if that’s what you are thinking. But don’t think for a minute that Dad and hisStandards of Church-respecting sentiments were absent from our minds. We knew just what to do and when to do the things Mother cherished: for a merciless conscience pierced us through if we didn’t. Even that big-looking dime, that could have filled one of a hundred wants, slipped in the collection plate. But it is not collection especially that needs doctoring here at Davidson, as the Lord knows our several abilities in that respect. We need to be reminded that we do break the laws of blessed childhood—the laws that are sacred, ever, to these is formulated thus, “Children are to be SEEN, and not HEARD.” We are the children of God, Jesus Christ is our Captain, the Pastor is His Reflector. When the Pastor speaks, it means that we are in the presence of the Most High. Then, “let the words of our mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable.” Talking in church violates the second part of the law, and sleeping, the second half of the prayer. How can we meditate upon the Word, as it is spoken, when asleep?

Now a second law is that of hospitality. In the warm summer afternoons, when all enjoyed the cool of the porch, don’t you remember what happened when a friend came in? Yes, certainly, he took your chair and you sat on the railing. That is hospitality. But the church is home, too, it is home in the better sense of the word. Then all within its walls are friends—no, more—brothers. Well, what right have we to deprive our brothers of the refreshing Word of God by talking and sleeping on the shoulders of the good-natured? We do not entertain a very wholesome degree of hospitality, it would seem.

The title of this article, “How It Looks,” calls for a very strong and almost unkind generalization. Those of us who are guilty of the aforementioned bad habits must come under one or both of two kinds of unfortunates. The first is the type which simply failed to get good home training, and the second is the type which falls short of maturity. That we cast no reflections on the good folks at home, let us gird ourselves with the trusty apron strings. A dangling apron string is as hard to get rid of, in afterlife, as is our shadow, at the setting of the sun. Let the first type pick out a gentleman by whom a new code of habit may be formed.

W. L.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin leave soon for a visit to their son in Columbus, Ohio.

EXCHANGE GORE

Max Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The Flunker. The flunker is an expensive proposition, to his parents, to the university, and to himself. He causes discontent and dissatisfaction in the group or organization of which he is a member and moreover, seriously injures his own standing at the university and his reputation at home. After all, flunking is too expensive a proposition for students to undertake. The gain does not in the least cover the cost and the credits are all on the debit side of the ledger. Students who flunked or barely slipped by last term still have time to come to the front and to make a creditable showing. There is no excuse for flunking.—Exchange.

College Park, Mar. 29.—The largest squad of recruits for the track team in the history of the University of Maryland turned out today for practice. Brewer, captain of the team and star of last season, who was injured in football last year, will not be in shape to run. Smith, the former Delaware and Penn State track man, has charge of the squad. Charles Paddock, University of Southern California and Olympic star, clipped two-fifths of a second off the world’s record for the 220-yard dash Saturday, in a regular meet against the University of California at Berkeley. Four watches caught his speed at 20 4-5 seconds and one at 20 3-5. Paddock earlier in the day won the 100-yard dash, his time in that event equaling the world’s record of 9 3-5 seconds.

News Item—There was considerable scandal in our town Saturday night when P. A. Cash, our local butcher, was found in an ice box with a lot of undressed chickens—Rutgers Neilson.

Princeton Adopts Senior Council Control Project. The senior council, elected by the undergraduates, will hereafter pass upon Princeton's morals and be empowered to deal with students who “tend to lower the moral tone and the good name of Princeton,” university authorities announced. The action is a step in the evolution of the Princeton honor system, which has been in effect since 1893. Power is vested in the senior council to investigate cases against fellow students and to recommend dismissal from the university by faculty committee, without submitting the evidence upon which the recommendation was based.

BELK BROS. Are selling Clothes for Young Men at Pre-War Prices BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DRAMATIC CLUB STAGES DELIGHTFUL BANQUET New Officers Elected—Outdoor Attraction for Commencement Planned.

One of the most enjoyable banquets of the season was that held by the Davidson College Dramatic Club last Friday night at the home of Mrs. L. Brady. The club went into business session at nine o'clock, presided over by president F. N. Thompson. The following men were elected to handle the affairs of the organization for the coming year: President, E. A. Nash; Secretary-Treasurer, J. S. Curry; Property man, W. B. Carer. It was decided that as a final effort for the year an outdoor attraction will be put on during commencement. A committee to work out plans for such an attraction was appointed by the presiding president, a definite report to be rendered in the near future. During the social feature of the evening, short, informal dinner speeches were made by Professors Frazer Hood and E. J. Erwin, and leading members of the club. As a token of the esteem and appreciation of the untiring efforts of Professor Erwin in making the Club a success during the past year, he was presented with a handsome mahogany library table by the members of the club. The Dramatic Club, although one of the youngest of the college organizations, has become an important factor in our college activities, and it is with interest that the entire student body watches its growth.

POLITY CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS FOR COMING YEAR New Members to be Chosen at Next Meeting

The new Polity Club officers were elected at the regular meeting March 29th. The following men were chosen to lead the club in its program for the coming year: A. C. Summers, president; T. M. Lowry, vice-president; J. R. Jones, secretary and treasurer. In connection with the regular program, Mitchell gave a short talk on “Current Events” dealing with things of national and international importance. Another feature of the evening was a speech by the president-elect in which he reviewed the past year’s work and outlined the work for the coming year, stating the policy and object of the club. The election of new members to the club at the next meeting was announced.