Si} THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. VIII.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Establishes Second Chapter
Chemical Fraternity Founded Last Year by Davidson Students Takes First Step Toward Expansion

Four students of the North Carolina State College, at West Raleigh, have been granted a charter for the Alpha Beta Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity. They are: R. C. Ernst, ‘21; O. H. Browne, '21; L. W. Green, ’22, and S. F. Mauney, Jr., ‘22. This chapter is the first to be established, and the installation took place last Monday night in Raleigh. M. R. Doubles and J. R. Boulware, Jr., were the representatives sent by the local organization to take charge of the installation. Five of the faculty members at the State College were extended the privileges of honorary membership, and they, with the students, will make for a strong chapter which will accomplish a great deal toward approaching the aims for which the fraternity was established. These faculty members, Drs. W. A. Withers, L. F. Williams and E. E. Randolph, and Profs. S. J. Marion and W. E. Jordan, are all teachers of chemistry at the State College, and interested in the extension of that branch of science.

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity was organized here at Davidson by L. P. Good, ‘20; M. A. Siske, '20, and M. R. Doubles, ‘22. There is a need for an honorary chemical organization which will have for its field of extension the smaller colleges, and it was primarily for this reason that the organization was perfected. At present the honorary chemical fraternities will not consider any but the larger universities as possible places for chapters. Gamma Sigma Epsilon intends to extend more in the smaller colleges, in the undergraduate departments and the formation of this new chapter at Raleigh represents the first step in its expansion. The fraternity requires that a man must have passed two years of college chemistry, with a minimum requisite grade each term. At Davidson the grade is 85; the grades at other colleges will be fixed in accordance with conditions there.

The members of the chapter here at Davidson are: Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. O. P. Thies, J. R. Boulware, Jr., A. P. Ormond, J. M. Dunlap, J. S. Brown, Jr., M. R. Doubles, C. E. Cunningham, T. M. Lowry, J. P. Price, D. W. Spencer, and P. H. McAlpine. The fraternity hopes in time to extend to most of the colleges in this section of the country, and the establish- (Continued on page 3)

BAND CONCERT IN SHEARER HALL NEXT TUESDAY NIGHT

A band concert will be held Tuesday night, February 22nd, in Shearer Hall. This date, the birthday of the Father of our Country, was chosen as it was thought that some sort of a celebration would be fitting for that day. The concert is to be absolutely free and all the townspeople are invited to attend. The students should turn out well and back the band. Last year Band Leader Freeman had to take raw material and make a band of it, but this year he had a good many old men back and also some good new men. As a consequence Davidson has a band that would be a credit to any institution. A band is a very necessary thing in arousing pep in games and other activities. The students should get behind the band and show them how much they appreciate their efforts.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 18, 1921.

DR. FRAZER HOOD PREPARES VOLUME ON DYNAMIC SALESMANSHIP

Dr. Fraser Hood, Professor of Psychology, is now engaged in writing a psychological treatise which will be entitled “Dynamic Salesmanship.” This is to be published in book form, and will give a full discussion of the psychological principles underlying and involved in the art of salesmanship. Selected illustrations showing the practical application of psychology to the individual problems of salesmanship will be a feature of the new book. The material will be ready for the printers by summer, and the book will probably be off the press by early fall. It will contain about 300 pages, and Dr. Hood is contemplating using it as one of the texts for the course in salesmanship which will be offered next year. As far as is known, no Davidson professor has ever published a book in the department of psychology before, and the students of the college and the friends of Dr. Hood are delighted to learn that he has undertaken and is so successfully completing a work of this nature.

Inter-Racial Problems Helpfully Discussed Before Davidson “Y.”

Many Treats Promised Delegates to State Volunteer Convention
Excellent Program Prepared for the 150 North Carolina Students Who Will be Present

On February 25th, gentle reader, some 150 of the peppiest students in the State will migrate, assemble, and in other ways gather themselves together in Durham, N. C., for what promises to be the livest Student Volunteer Convention on record. I speak advisedly: There will be a reception Friday night in order that the delegates may all get acquainted “right off,” so to speak, and the fact that the delegates will eat together in the College Dining Hall is not calculated to diminish their interest in one another. At night time there will be nice, long, cool, shady walks home, for the college is situated in the center of the town. And certain budding astronomy sharks have calculated, by the aid of certain government publications called “calendars,” that the MOON will be FULL just three days before! Such are times that stir the heart. The reporter can testify that the whole course of a man’s life can be changed by such an experience.

The conference will be peculiarly fortunate this year in that the heads of three different Mission Boards will be there. Dr. Smith, for the Presbyterians; Dr. Hounshell, for the Methodists, and Dr. Atkinson, for the Christian Church. Miss Helen Hardy, who attended the Davidson Convention last year, will rep-

Dr. H. L. McCrory, of Biddle University, and His Singers Furnish Interesting Program

The address at the Sunday Y service by Dr. H. L. McCrory, President of Biddle University, of Charlotte, and the singing of five of his students, furnished an unusual and helpful program. These men from Biddle, the colored Presbyterian University in the South, were heard with pleasure and profit. After the Scripture reading by Secretary Chalmers and prayer by Dr. Sentelle, the Biddle quintette sang “A Witness for My Lord,” “Lord, I Want to be a Christian,” and “Good News, the Chariot’s Come.” Though the students would gladly have heard more, they gave the singers a rest until after the address, when three more songs were given and then two more after the regular meeting closed.

Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the faculty, in introducing the speaker, called to mind the fine efforts made by the colored race to better themselves during the time they have been coming “up from slavery,” and the fact that the white people of the South are the most sympathetic toward the negro and the most interested in his betterment.

Dr. McCrory, after paying his respects to Davidson College, of which he had heard when he was a boy in South Carolina, told of his association of a third of a century with Biddle, and said that he “wouldn’t change the work of teaching the young men who are becoming citizens in this country for any other work.” He announced that he would confine his discussion of inter-racial relations to the relations between the white and black races in the United States, and would center upon the possibilities, future, and problems of the negro. He expressed the opinion that it is not possible for the negro to leave this country, and that it would be difficult for him to colonize in this country, on account of the intertwined dependency of the two races. Then, asThe solution does not seem to be found in getting rid of the negro; his problems must be considered in the light of his presence here now and in the days ahead. The speaker mentioned two causes of (Continued on page 3) resent the Woman's Boards for Foreign Missions. The Student Volunteer Secretary will be E. F. Campbell, of whom we are advised that we may say anything we wish and not have to take anything back. In addition, missionaries will be there from all the mission fields, Rev. S. M. Erickson and J. W. Moore being our representatives. At least two of the meetings will be conducted entirely by the students themselves, Davidson men being among the speakers. Be advised! Turn in your names at once to David Roberts, the Lord High Promoter of this meeting, as ten of the fifteen places in our delegation are already full. The railroad fare is nine dollars, the registration fee three, and the conferences as a whole will be the finest practical demonstration of real, genuine, virile, “Applied Christianity” that you or I will witness for some time.

Davidson Basketeers Leave for Trip Thru Old North State
Elon and N. C. State to be Encountered for Second Time—U. of N. C Also to be Met

The Wildcat Basketeers left Wednesday noon for their North Carolina trip. Three games will be played before their return and they have high hopes of winning all of them. The first game, with Elon, was played Wednesday night. The second game will be played tonight with N. C. State. State is out for revenge for the bad way the Wildcats defeated them here some time ago. On that occasion the Presbyterians came out on the long end of a 45-13 score. But with N. C. State playing in her own back yard, supported by hundreds of Red and White rooters, there is likely to be a different tale to tell. Coach Hengeveld’s men are sure (Continued on page 2)

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB TAKES SIX-DAY TRIP.

The Davidson College Glee Club is now on a six-day trip performing at towns in the western part of the state. The places visited are Queens College, Salem College, Lexington High School, Asheville High School, and Fassifern School at Hendersonville, returning here on Saturday. Twelve numbers of popular college songs, quartets and sketches including the famous “Wildcat” Jazz Orchestra make up the program which is being rendered in fine style. The popular songs such as, “Tell Me Little Gypsy,” “Dry as a Camel’s Tonsils,” “Broadway Rose,” “Margie” and “I Love the Land of Old Black Joe,” rendered by the whole club are making a big hit. Allison is also winning the hearts of many with his solos, while the “Wildcat” Jazz Orchestra is running him and the whole club a close second. Much praise should be given Mrs. Frazer Hood for her untiring efforts in helping to make the Glee Club such a success.

Junior Oratorical Exercises Begin Next Monday
More Than Eighty Students to Display Their Knowledge on the World’s Problems

“The time has come,” the Walrus said, “to talk of many things.” This quotation, while not very new nor yet profound, is a good statement of the condition which will prevail at Davidson during the next week. Junior Speaking with all its trials and sorrows is to begin next Monday. A different plan is to be followed from that which has prevailed in previous years. Instead of torturing large audiences with their eloquence, the Juniors will speak before committees of the faculty. Several sections will be heard at the same time in the various places of assembly, and eight of the best speakers from each society are to be selected to speak at the formal oratorical contest in March. While there is no evidence that the students will talk of “cabbages and kings,” there is almost as great a range of subjects to be found in the titles announced for the speeches. Everything from the Modern Dance to the Purification of Water and from the Farmers’ Union to the Voice of the City is to be discussed. The following is a list of speakers and the subjects of their orations:

Bailey, H. P., The Value of the Classics.
Bailey, J. C., Home Ownership.
Bailey, T. M., Business Possibilities for 1921.
Bethea, P. O., Progress of America.
Bitzer, R., Optimism.
Booth, W. R., A People without a Nation.
Brice, R. M., Use of Economics to the Average Citizen.
Clark, J. F., Ideals.
Clyburn, T. B., Prepare for the Crisis.
Cornelson, G. H., Thread.
Crane, W. E., Korea.
Cunningham, C. E., The Greatest Man in America.
Curry, J. S., What Next?
Deaver, R. R., The Need of the Undergraduate.
Dew, M. C., An Audience with Kings.
Dick, L. W., Woodrow Wilson.
Doggett, M. W., A Model Town.
Doubles, M. R., Why?
Erwin, M. M., Science vs. Art.

(Continued on page 2)

No. 19 Wildcats Win from Elon and Univ. of Florida
Red and White Lose by Score of 38 to 25—Alligators Vanquished 45 to 26 in Rough Game

Elon Game. The Red and White succumbed to the Red and Black a week ago last Tuesday night to the tune of 38 to 25. Elon opened up a rapid-fire attack which netted them seven points before the Davidson five could find their bearings. Warming up to the game the Wildcats came back strong however, catching up with their opponents and gaining the lead before the first half ended with a score of 16 to 14 in their favor. Opening up the second half with renewed pep Elon again showed strong fight and with accurate passing and fast floor work threatened to pass the Davidsonians again, but were unable to hold the lead for long. Roberts turned the ball loose and caged five goals during this period winning the Wildcats’ score well ahead of their opponents. The close guarding of L. Schenck and the floor work passing and long shots by Crawford were clearly the main features of the game. J. Newman netted the most points for the visitors and aided by B. Johnson who did well at center and Perry, their outstanding guard, kept Elon from being an easy mark for the Red and Black machine. The game was unusually fast at the first part of each period, but both teams slowed down somewhat toward the last, Elon showing more endurance than the Davidson five.

Line-up:
Elon (25) Position Davidson (38)
J. Fix J. Schenck (4) R. F.
J. Newman (12) Roberts (20) L. F.
B. Johnson (3) Romefelt (4) C.
E. Johnson (3) Crawford (8) R. G.
Perry (6) L. Schenck L. G.

Substitutions—Elon: McAdams for Perry; N. Newman for Fix. Davidson: Davis for Romefelt; McConnell for J. Schenck; Price for Crawford; Ormand (2) for Roberts; De Armond for Davis. Referee: Chalmers, Davidson; Timekeeper, Dr. Douglas.

U. of Florida Game. The Wildcat quint defeated the University of Florida team on the local floor last Thursday night by the rather one-sided score of 45-26. It was the (Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Literary Society.
Basketball: Davidson vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
Friday—6:45 p.m., Leaders Group Discussion Class.
6:45 p.m., Reporters’ Club meeting.
Basketball: Davidson vs. Uni. of N.C. at Chapel Hill.
Saturday—7:00 p.m., Basketball game: Scrubs vs. Winston-Salem. Admission ten cents.
8:00 p.m., Movies: The Jicklins.
9:00 p.m., Eu Literary Society.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Study classes.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—Hour Unknown: Junior Speaking begins.

GOOD LUCK, JUNIORS!