THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

Speaking of Sports

Well—we got the worst end of another trip. Dropping three games in a row doesn’t make a very melodious tune,
and it’s hard to swallow the dose, but better luck next time.

—Wildcats—

Elon got away with a 30 to 19 victory and evened things up, in respect to our 38 to 25
score against them two weeks ago.

—Wildcats—

N. C. State, by a desperate final minute rally, won an exciting contest by a 29 to 28 count, but
could not wipe out the memory of that 45 to 13 Wildcat victory earlier in the season.

—Wildcats—

The University of N. C. trounced us 37 to 20, which moves them one peg closer to the state championship.
The Rah-Rah lads put up a splendid passing game and one Mr. Carmichael went wild—caging the ball from all angles.

—Wildcats—

The old jinx which follows Red and Black teams on trips was still present. Bill Roberts and Schenck both were
away off color, and it seemed as if none of their shots would find the basket perfectly.

—Wildcats—

With nine collegiate games played so far and four to go, the prospects for a good season are still bright.
Six of these collegiate contests were North Carolina affairs and the results of victories is fifty-fifty. It looks as if
the team will rate third in the race for championship honors.

—Wildcats—

In these nine collegiate games the local quint has rolled up 347 points against 252 for its opponents.

—Wildcats—

Next week finds the present season at an end. Charlotte Y, Clemson, Guilford, Wake Forest, and Wofford will be taken
on in turn.

—Wildcats—

We have with us tonight the quint from Charlotte Y. That 32 to 24 defeat from them is still sticking
in the side of Wildcat supporters and the Presbyterians will be out for revenge.

—Wildcats—

Saturday finds the Clemson Tigers invading our den. Curious to say there are no direct comparative scores on this game
and the only light which can be thrown on the prospects are through comparisons of the University of S. C.
Clemson 24, U. S. C. 10. This would seem to give the Tigers a 14 point advantage over the Gamecocks.

—Wildcats—

On its northern invasion, the Gamecocks fared as follows: U. N. C. 34, U. S. C. 15. N. C. State
25, U. S. C. 24. Virginia 44, U. S. C. 9. From this, it would seem that the Clemson outfit
ranks along with Carolina, and about 15 points better than N. C. State.

—Wildcats—

The second Eastern invasion of this state begins Tuesday. Guilford in Greensboro is the first article on the program. The
Quakers will be out in full force to wipe out that 31 to 14 defeat handed them and a good
contest will no doubt ensue. Wake Forest will be the next opponent. Following are some scores in respect to the
Baptist strength: Wake Forest 16, Elon 15. Wake Forest 41, Guilford 14. Wake Forest 20, N. C. State 10. Wake
Forest 15, Elon 18.

—Wildcats—

Our final game comes next Thursday against Wofford in Charlotte. The only direct comparative score on this game shows that
the Uni. of Florida trimmed Wofford 45 to 35. More encouragement.

—Wildcats—

The Wildkittens’ victory over Winston-Salem High School furnished the large gallery with plenty of thrills. Mauze got off with some
spectacular shots and was easily the star of the game. The high school lads put up a game fight and
the work of Davis at guard stood out prominently.

—Wildcats—

This week’s schedule calls for:

Thursday, February 24th.
Davidson vs. Charlotte “Y” at Davidson.
N. C. State vs. V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

Friday, February 25th.
N. C. State vs. Roanoke at Salem, Va.
Trinity vs. Uni. of Va. at Durham.

Saturday, February 26th.
Davidson vs. Clemson at Davidson.
U. N. C. vs. Uni. of Va. at Chapel Hill.

Monday, February 28th.
No games.

Tuesday, March 1st.
Davidson vs. Guilford at Greensboro.
N. C. State vs. Wofford at Raleigh.

Wednesday, March 2nd.
Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Greensboro.
N. C. State vs. U. N. C. at Raleigh.
Trinity vs. Wofford at Durham.

Thursday, March 3rd.
Davidson vs. Wofford at Charlotte.

DAVIDSON RIFLE RANGE ALMOST READY FOR USE

If the weather permits, the R. O. T. C. rifle range will be completed this week, and the work of
training “young America” to shoot will begin. The distances on the range are one hundred, two hundred, and three hundred
yards. There are six targets, thus allowing six men to practice at the same time. Only low-power ammunition can be
used at first, because the butts are not thick enough to stop the balls of the high-power ammunition. But the
butts will be enlarged in the near future and practice with the high-power ammunition can begin. The pits are being
floored, thus guarding against any danger of men suffering from cold feet. Anyone desiring to increase their proficiency in the
art of shooting will find the range at their disposal during the summer months. Don’t crowd, boys!

MAJOR HEARN ASKS CO-OPERATION OF ALL MEN IN R. O. T. C.

1. The Professor of Military Science and Tactics wishes to express to the students of the R. O. T. C.
his appreciation for their excellent efforts and co-operation since college opened last fall.

2. My association with you and with the entire student body has indeed been of the most pleasant nature. Your
customs were new to me but were well founded, growing out of that respectfulness of youth for age, they have
made the Campus breathe forth a wholesome life, joyous life, yet a thoughtful life.

3. The work with you in the classroom and on the drill field has been a delightful task. Eagerness and
earnestness make the most difficult task easy.

4. The College Spirit goes into every sport and into every department. Your part of the campaign, the part the
entire student body in the campaign for a better Davidson is not a narrow, one-sided desire, but a broad well-thought-out
campaign. It has not for its purpose to advance one part at the expense of the other, but the raising
of the banner all along the line and each Son of Davidson taking on the whole armor of preparedness and
not one part to the neglect of others. This genuineness of effort carries with it conviction and will in the
end bring forth good fruit.

5. We shall not judge a college solely by the ideals published in its catalog, but rather by the activities
of the student body, the true criterion of worth is in their hearts. The work done here by the students
is an inspiration to the older men and must be an assurance to the older Davidson men that the Young
Sons of Davidson are worthy of their inheritance.

6. Your work in my department has received my personal attention and best effort. I have been greatly impressed by
your keenness and aptness. It is the spirit of a man that we admire most, that spirit of fair play,
square deal, loyalty, and honor. These are the traits of the character of the men I have found here. The
type of work done thus far has been in keeping with that high grade of manliness.

7. Our Area Commander has expressed his hearty approval and congratulation. The value of a compliment is judged by the
source from which it came. To know that General Morrison has spent most of his life writing Text Books, Teaching,
and Training makes us appreciate still more his letter of approval.

8. Let us work to make Davidson not one of the best in the Area, but the best without a
shadow of a doubt.

T. G. HEARN, Maj. Inf. U. S. A.

WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY CELEBRATED BY ADDRESS AND BAND CONCERT

Dr. J. M. McConnell Delivered Patriotic Lecture—Many New Numbers Rendered by Band.R. O. T. C. Band under the direction of
Director D. R. Freeman made its initial appearance of the spring term in Shearer Hall last Tuesday night. The band
appeared in connection with the celebration of Washington's Birthday. The program opened with the overture “Prince Charming” by King. This
number, by a contemporary American composer, was well received. It may be said that “Prince Charming” struck the keynote of
the whole concert for the work of contemporary American composers was featured. Remembering that his audience was composed largely of
young men, Director Freeman took care to include many of the latest of jazz melodies. A medley of old Southern
melodies, “The Sunny South” arranged by Lampe was enthusiastically received. The medley contained such old favorites as “Arkansas Traveler” and
“Swanee River” and ended with the one and only “Dixie.” Swinging far afield to a dreamy oriental intermezzo, “Arabian Nights,”
also by King, the band showed its versatility. A little nearer home, but just as interesting, were two recent marches
by Jewell, “On the Firing Line” and “Pass It Along,” which were given a spirited rendition. Possibly the biggest hit
of the evening was made by the saxophone quartette composed of Houston White, W. S. Buchanan, W. R. Booth, and
W. P. Nesbit. The quartette “jazzed” its way into the hearts of the audience with “Tripoli” and finished up the
job in fine style with “Japanese Sandman.” The work of Nesbit on the baritone was quite out of the ordinary.
Not forgetting the nature of the day “America” was used to follow the address of Dr. McConnell and open the
second half of the program. Continuing in the patriotic strain the “Star Spangled Banner” was used as the closing number.

WILDCATS DROP THREE (Continued from page 1)

17 to 8. The Red and Black led the Red and White five in passing, shooting, and team work during
the first period, but were unable to hold their lead during the second half. State started off the second period
with accurate shooting and netted 21 points, while their clever defensive work held Davidson’s scorers to 11 points. During the
middle of this half State overcame Davidson’s lead and then followed a lively tussle in which first one and then
the other five would push ahead by a few points. Park, for State, led in the defensive work, shooting a
long goal from his side of the court. Groom played a fine offensive game and succeeded in placing 19 points
to his credit. For Davidson Roberts, Crawford, and J. Schenck led in the scoring. J. Schenck playing his usual fast
and elusive game as floor forward. Although the game was rather slow and loosely played by both teams at times,
it proved very interesting and not without excitement during the last part of the last half.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson (28) Position State (29)
J. Schenck (6) Deal (2) R. F
Roberts (10) Silverman L. F.
Romefelt (4) Groome (19) C.
Crawford (6) Park (2) L. G.
L. Schenck Williams (6) L. G.

Substitutes: Johnston for Silverman; Davis (2) for L. Schenck; L. Schenck for Romefelt. Referee: Doak, Guilford.

Davidson vs. Carolina. The Davidson Varsity Five came back with the old Wildcat fight, after two defeats, and held the
strong Carolina team to a 37 to 20 score. The score does not indicate the comparative strength of the two
teams since the scoring was neck and neck, and it was only the locals’ foul throws which gave them the
needed counters for victory. The Tar Heels displayed the best team work and the most accurate basket-shooting of any college
varsity which the Wildcats have tackled thus far this season, and it was only wonderful guarding which kept the University’s
score down. Davidson's accurate long passing had more to do with breaking up Carolina’s team play than has the play
of any other team seen on the Chapel Hill floor this season. It was only by occasional spurts of speed
that the Tar Heels were able to keep the lead. The scoring opened by Carmichael the lanky Carolina center who
caged several long shots followed by two free throws. The Wildcats were playing loosely but soon became accustomed to their
surroundings, and while Crawford and Schenck were guarding closely Roberts and John Schenck began to roll in some pretty long
shots. The scoring was about even during the first ten minutes, but gradually Carolina began to draw away, due largely
to the shooting of Carmichael and Captain Shepard. The half ended with the University lads on the long end of
a 19 to 10 score. The second half speeded things up and both fives showed good team-work. The fouls in
this period again kept Carolina in the fore. Roberts and J. Schenck led the Davidson attack and made some beautiful
shots. Crawford's guarding and floor work was excellent. Hanley and Shepard played well at times, while Carmichael secured the most
points. The “Raleigh News and Observer” states, besides Davidson being the best team seen on the Tar Heel’s floor this
season, that, “The whole Davidson team had speed and looked better than the score indicates.”

The line-up and summary follows:
Davidson (20) Position Carolina (37)
Schenck, J. (6) Shepard (Capt) (8) R. F.
Roberts (10) McDonald (2) L. F.
Davis (2) Carmichael (21) C.
Crawford (2) Hanby (6) R. G.
Schenck (Capt) Erwin L. G.

Substitutes: Romefelt for L. Schenck; Morris for Erwin; Woodall for Hanby; Williams for McDonald; Eaton for Shepard. Referee: Crozier, of
Raleigh. Umpire: Knight, of Durham Y. M. C. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

GREAT SWIMMING MATCH HELD ON CAMPUS LAST WEEK

Jupiter Pluvius Favors Campus with Inundation — No Lives Lost in Swollen Stream.

Gentlemen, hush! De Soto's little brooklet wouldn't furnish sport for a goldfish. Balboa's discovery wasn’t any wetter’n a Sahara fog;
Noah didn’t even need overshoes. It took some forty days, with nights to match, to get that gentleman good and
floated. And he thought he was some gob at that. But none of that slow stuff around here! Why, it
rained seven whole years right in half an hour! It hadn't been going on more’n five minutes when the ventilators
on the chapel looked like bellbuoys. And a little after that you couldn't tell the tree-tops from lily pads. Over
near where Chambers used to stand floated an exact replica of the Monitor, while, from a safe distance, the Merrimac
eyed her sullenly. But, of course, classes continued as usual. Most of the profs were out in old inner tubes,
while the rest of us had to resort to coal scuttles, trunks, and “G. I.” cans. Psychology I did get
along a little better than the rest, having the Island of Reil. History II decided to make a New Map
of Europe, with peculiar results. The English Channel and the Persian Gulf were right together near the center of Chambers.
Down where Third Floor Watts used to bask in the sunshine now rippled the China Sea. The Black Sea covered
off accurately the recent site of the laundry. Thru Hammet-ski’s old quarters tore the Red River. The Bug Lab became
the Dead Sea, and looked the part. They got so interested that they made the New Map of Asia as
well. Eco. II went into an intense study of the Grand Banks. When dinner time came everybody made such a
rush for the eats (except the Hebrews, who were never a sea-faring people) that a shout was raised, “All hands
on deck to repel boarders.”

DAVIDSON AND C. D. TULLER ELECTED ASST. FOOTBALL MGRS.

At a meeting of the Athletic Association held after chapel on Tuesday, February 7th, the following men were nominated for
the offices of assistant football managers: Tuller, Davidson, Rody, J., Bernhardt, Gamble, Russell, Ogden, and McCutchen, G. The first four
named received the highest ballot and were voted on a week later. Of these Tuller and Davidson received the highest
vote and consequently are the assistant football managers for the season of 1921.
