4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Editor-in-Chief: W. P. PRICE
Athletic Editor: J. H. McKEITHEN
Alumni Editor: J. H. McKEITHEN
Literary Editor: H. OGDEN, Jr.
Publicity Editor: W. J. COOPER
Exchange Editor: W. V. MAUZE
Y. M. C. A. Editor: G. MOORE
Social Editor: W. H. BITZER
Assignment Editor: R. BRADFORD
Campus Editor: W. Z. HESTON
Reference Editor: W. M. MORRIS
Open Forum Editor: H. M. BROWN
Reporters: W. P. IVES, J. C. SMITH, R. CALHOUN, M. P. JONES, J. R. TULLER, W. M. COX, R. R.
JONES, D. B. WALTHALL, C. F. WILDMAN, W. T. ELLIOTT, C. F. EACY

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager: W. S. WOOLLS
Asst. Business Managers: L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK, W. S. SHEPARD

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager: M. R. DOUBLES
Asst. Circulation Managers: K. ELL, C. D. TULLER, S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, no one will deny that there was fire on the campus this Senior Week, anyway.

There is nothing like trouble to show how many friends a person or a college has. Davidson wishes to thank
the Charlotte Fire Department for the prompt steps it took to help us on Monday morning.

The Wildcat Minstrel fully came up to the expectations of all who saw it, and Professor Erwin with his staff
of assistants are due a hearty vote of thanks for the splendid entertainment they presented.

Since examinations do not come until after Christmas this year, the class football games will be held before the holidays,
and some royal battles are expected on Sprunt Field within the near future. And by the way, had you realized
that Christmas is hardly three weeks off?

THE BURNING OF CHAMBERS.

In the great blaze of last Monday morning there fell perhaps the hardest, and certainly the most unexpected blow which
could have come to Davidson College. For nearly three-quarters of a century that massive pile of brick and stone known
as the Chambers building had reared its lofty cupola toward heaven, and by reason of its imposing size and exterior
had laid hold on the imagination of all who beheld it. Large enough to care for a small college in
itself, it stood as a noble monument to the man whose name it bore and whose generosity made possible its
construction. Generation after generation of students had come to abide for a few years within its historic walls and then
to pass on into the world beyond, and with the passing of every class new traditions had gathered round the
great building until the very soul of the college seemed embodied in it. The rugged strength and quiet grandeur of
the edifice seemed to symbolize the things for which the college stood, and it was largely in its symbolic meaning
that hundreds of alumni and students had come to love it. To us its burning meant more than the loss
of property valued at $250,000, for we believe that the money for a new and modern building will quickly be
supplied by the friends of the college. The building with its four stately columns and its storied cupola had come
to be a real friend to us, and at its loss we mourn almost as truly as if a living
friend had passed from our midst. For the old Chambers can never be fully restored.

And yet Davidson has not suffered an irreparable loss. The object about which so many of our traditions had clustered
is gone; but the traditions themselves still remain and will not die. The passage of the familiar old landmark only
places on us as students of Davidson a heavier responsibility in seeing that the customs and spirit of our college
are kept alive, and handed down intact to the classes which come after us. Dr. Martin has already sounded the
keynote of confidence and optimism, and the trustees can be depended on to do all that is humanly possible to
put the college back on its feet. The real responsibility cannot rest entirely with them, however, for no matter how
splendid a structure may be raised in the place of the old Chambers, their work will be in vain if
the student body does not remain true to the ideals which have been set for us in past years.

Already it has manifested the true spirit of loyalty and has settled down to work under new and trying conditions
with such zeal that even now, only two days after the fire, the current of college life seems almost undisturbed.
It is in the remaining days of the year, however, when the excitement and inspiration of the moment have passed,
that the real test will come. Let us steadfastly determine that if our efforts can make it so, a bigger
and a better Davidson shall arise out of the ashes and ruins that were once Chambers.

HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE

The women of Davidson are the best people on earth. No preacher with all his goodness, no doctor with all
his service to men, no college professor with all his desire to instruct the future leaders of church and state,
can compare with them. Since way back in the dim past they and their mothers have been serving the generations
of college men who have come and gone. There has never been a great commencement, or even a smaller one,
never a successful Senior week, nor a delightful Junior Speaking which they have not made possible. On many of these
occasions some of them have not been seen, and to our shame, it must be said, not even appreciated. More
than one of them stayed at home last Saturday night, missing the minstrel and the reception, in order to prepare
for Sunday and our guests. What would we do without these good women who are willing, nay, even glad to
entertain us and our guests, who when the call is made for rooms, on the various occasions of rejoicing, offer
us more than we need, who entertain our guests as their own and give them the best the land affords.

When this article was begun it was intended to end here. But since then trouble has come upon us. Just
after all the pleasures of Senior week, even before all the beloved ones had departed, old Chambers was burned. One
hundred and thirty-three men were left without rooms. Long ere the fire died down, offers began to come in from
“those who serve” and again “Old Davidson” found herself indebted to them beyond measure. For this last and greatest service
every man in college is grateful to you, women of Davidson! For entertaining our sweethearts we thank you; for adopting
our fellows we love you!

C. W. J.

RED AND BLACK.

We have had Red and Black ribbon, Red and Black pennants, Red and Black pillow tops. These we have had
for some time. But the latest thing out...is a Red and Black dress hat. How do you think that will
look? I can tell you, they look fine. The hats are of medium brown color, young men’s model, English style,
the Berg brand, “quality without extravagance.” Ed Mellon had them designed especially for Davidson men. These hats are lined with
Red and Black crepe de chine and have a small touch of Red and Black on the bow of the
band. The best colors in the world to show, yet not enough to be conspicuous. This is the hat we
have wished for often; just the thing you will want to wear around home during the holidays. There is one
of these hats now on display at No. 3 La. Come around and see how you like it. Place your
order now or you can get one at Ed. Mellons on your next visit to Charlotte. (Adv.)

Queens Blues Is Bringing Noted Musician to College.

Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 25 (Queens) — Harry Mercer, a wonderful tenor, will give a concert at Queens in December.
Mr. Mercer comes under the auspices of the Queens Blues. He will have with him a very capable accompanist and
also a violinist. Mr. Mercer is now with the Redpath Chautauqua and Queens considers herself very fortunate in being able
to get such artists to entertain at the college. Guests at the Infirmary during the past week were: J. S.
Gracy, B. F. Hastie, R. K. Shaw, J. R. Maxwell, H. L. Johnson, H. M. White, C. C. Cantrell, and
Bill Ramseur.

With Other Colleges

N. C. College for Women Sees “Beyond the Horizon.”

Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 26. — Eugene O’Neill’s famous play, “Beyond the Horizon,” was presented in the auditorium of the
North Carolina College for Women last Tuesday night by the Shakespeare Playhouse Company, of New York, under the direction of
Frank McEntee. The character portrayals and dramatic interpretation of this great tragedy of environment were exceptionally fine. The Shakespeare Playhouse
Company was the third number of the college entertainment course.

War Debt Debate Held at N. C. College for Women.

Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 26 — The Dikean Literary Society of the North Carolina College for Women gained first chance
at the third cup offered by R. C. Brenau, of Greensboro, when they defeated the Cornelians with the affirmative of
the question, “Resolved, That the war debts of 1914 and 1918 be cancelled.” Having won the second cup for three
consecutive victories in debate, the Dikeans are entitled by their victory last Wednesday night to meet the Adelphians in the
spring debate. The speakers for the Dikeans were Blanche Henley, of Goldsboro, and Mabel Stamper, of Leaksville. Iola Parker, of
Rocky Mount, and Daisy Hunter, of Turkey, N. C., upheld the negative of the question for the Cornelians.

Football Players Better Students at Colorado “U”.

Figures made public by the Registrar’s office of the University of Colorado show that the football men, as a whole,
average higher in scholarship than men who do not go out for athletics. The men of the entire school average
74.87, while the letter men averaged 77.32 for the year 1920-21.

N. C. College for Women Lecture Course Begins.

Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 17. — The first lectures in the winter lecture and concert course of the North Carolina
College for Women were delivered November 11th and 12th by Dr. Dallas Lore Sharpe, head of the Department of English
of Boston University and a noted essayist. Dr. Sharpe spoke Friday evening in the college auditorium on “The Magical Chance,”
speaking again Saturday at noon on “Education for Democracy” and in the afternoon on “Education for Authority.”

Elon Hears Rev. Mr. Minton.

Elon College, N. C., Nov. 14 — The Rev. Mr. W. P. Minton, Foreign Mission Secretary of the American Christian
Convention, has been here several days in the interest of Foreign Missions. He delivered a powerful sermon to the student
body last Sunday morning and on Sunday evening he gave an illustrated lecture on his tours in Japan last year.
He also held a conference with the Student Volunteer organization of this institution. In speaking of the Christian Mission work
in Japan, Mr. Minton declared that he felt that the work was progressing very satisfactorily and that Christian influence was
being felt even in political circles in that country.

South Atlantic Y. W. C. A. Secretary Visits Queens.

Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 15 (Queens) — Miss Katherine Lumpkin, Y. W. C. A. Secretary in the South Atlantic field,
spent the week-end at Queens. On Saturday evening she conducted an “old-fashioned sing,” which was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone present.
Her talk at the vesper service on Sunday was very impressive and helpful. She came to Queens from Winthrop and
is planning to visit other colleges in the South.

Celebration in Honor of Queens Student President.

Charlotte, N. C., Nov. 25 (Queens) — On Monday, November 21st, Miss Rena Blanton, the Student Government President, was initiated
into the Kappa Omicron Honorary Society. After the initiation, a banquet was given in her honor at the Brown Betty
Tea Room, after which the members attended a lecture on art given by Joseph Pennell, under the auspices of the
Woman’s Club of Charlotte.
