THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

Speaking of Sports

Play Ball. Hold tight buddie—the Wildcats open up this afternoon on the Univ. of N. Y. nine. Let’s make it
one continual stretch of ye old Red and Black pep. Go get ’em Wildcats!

—Back the Wildcat Special—

That’s just it—back the WILDCAT SPECIAL. On to Winston and help lick Carolina Easter Monday. Everybody shell out and lend
a hand toward trailing the Blue and White in the dust, and then for the old shirt-tail parade around the
Square Monday night,

—While the Band Plays—

“Heil, Hail, the gang’s---- Football— Davidson, 7; Carolina, 0. Basketball— Carolina, 37; Davidson, 20. Baseball— What's your answer, Wildcats?

—Back the Wildcat Special—

Clemson Tigers open up today also, crossing bats with the Univ. of Georgia aggregation on the Cadets’ home ground. The
Cadets, who appear on the Wildcat card late in April, are reported as having a strong squad, especially is the
pitching staff well rounded out. The outfield is the only department to be filled, caused by vacancies from graduation last
year.

—Back the Wildcat Special—

Next week finds college baseball in full swing down in Dixie, and the schedule of the teams whom Davidson will
meet later is as follows:

Thursday, March 24th—
Davidson vs. Univ. of N. Y., at Davidson.
Clemson vs. Univ. of Geo., at Clemson.

Friday, March 25th—
Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson.
Clemson vs. Univ. of Geo., at Clemson.
Trinity vs. Guilford, at Durham.
N. C. State vs. Univ. of N. Y., at Raleigh.

Saturday, March 26th—
Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson.

Monday, March 28th—
Davidson vs. Univ. of N. C., at Winston.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest, at Raleigh.

Wednesday, March 30th—
Univ. of S. C. vs. Yale, at Macon, Ga.
Trinity vs. Guilford, at Durham.

—Back the Wildcat Special—

—On to Winston—

—Down Carolina—

Track practice is in full swing nowadays and next week finds the first intercollegiate meet in this State. The rival
cinder path artists of Wake Forest and N. C. State toe the scratch Monday in Raleigh. Prospects at Davidson are
brightening and the men are just about in shape for the opening meet.

—Back the Wildcat Special—

Two weeks ago, reasons and data were published on this page to the effect that this year’s Davidson basketball team
was rated as third in the State college circles. Of course reasons were not given in detail. Notwithstanding this, in
the “Gold and Black" of Wake Forest, March 18th issue, there appears an article which not only disputes this inference,
but which goes so far as to eliminate Davidson entirely from the race and to leave the matter a tie
between Wake Forest and Elon. It is not the policy of this college paper to criticize articles in its brother
collegiate weeklies, but at this time, in justice to Davidson College, its 1920 quint and to the student body of
Davidson and other colleges, this department wishes to reinforce the argument stated two weeks ago and to protest to the
stand taken by Wake Forest athletic circles.

The “Gold and Black” quotes that “Davidson is to be eliminated because she only met four other state colleges.” The
same paper criticizes the system of judging by points and states that “a victory won by one point is just
as much a victory as one won by twenty points.” How about it—is it? There are seven teams in the
race for state collegiate honors. Davidson met four, not meeting Wake Forest or Trinity. Arguing from Wake Forest's own standpoint,
that college itself would also be eliminated on the same grounds, as she failed to play either Davidson or Carolina.

Athletic News

CAPTAIN AND MANAGER FOR 1922 BASKETBALL SEASON ELECTED

At a meeting composed of only basketball letter men, C. R. Crawford, crack guard on this year’s quintet, was elected
the leader of next year’s five. The management of the team fell to the lot of Leonard Dick by the
popular vote of the Athletic Association. All are pleased with the results, for they recognize that no better-fitted men could
be secured for the positions. Crawford has proven time and time again that he is capable of the honor conferred
upon him. During the last half of the season he was a bulwark of strength on the defense and his
ability to cover the floor for an open shot was remarkable. Though this is his first season on the Varsity,
yet he plays a steady and cool game and should make the Wildcats a capable leader. The responsibility of management
was placed upon Dick as he is a man of discreet judgment. There is no doubt in the minds of
the students but that the season will be a success from a financial standpoint, as Dick is well adapted to
money matters. Under Crawford’s leadership and Dick’s management there is no reason why Davidson shouldn't put out a winning basketball
team next year.

FRENCH LECTURER HEARD BY LARGE AUDIENCE

M. Emile Villemin Gives Splendid Talk Illustrated by Stereopticon Views.

Monsieur Emile Villemin, official lecturer of the Federation de L’Alliance Francaise aux Etats Unis et au Canada, gave an illustrated
lecture in Shearer Hall last Friday evening on the subject “Mont Saint-Michel.” One of the largest lecture audiences in several
years was there to hear him. C. K. Brown, president of Le Cercle Francaise de Davidson under whose auspices the
lecture was given, introduced the speaker in the French language. Monsieur Villemin used his native tongue entirely. After explaining the
location of Saint-Michel, he showed some pictures of the island and the sea bottom around. It is there that the
tides are so comparable to the Newfoundland tides in this hemisphere and the quicksand of the sea bottom is so
treacherous. One of the most dramatic parts of his speech was where he described a man

So much for basketball. That will make good history, however—but what about the game Easter Monday:

—Down With Carolina—

—Back the Wildcat Special—

BACK THE WILDCAT SPECIAL.

The special leaves there at 10 p.m., plenty of time for a show and possibly a big parade. Let's wake
’em up! Don't say “Good-Bye” Monday, say “Come On.” Can Davidson take them?in? Ask losing his life in the quicksands.
any or all of the baseball squad. The second part of his lecture was largely a description of the cathedral
and houses of the island. Many beautiful slides showing the different types of architecture of the different centuries were shown
on the screen. Columns of all periods are found on this wonder spot of France. Monsieur Villermin was a man
of a most pleasing personality and held the attention of his audience in a most extraordinary manner, even those not
familiar with the French language. His clear annunciation and mannerisms aided his hearers a great deal in following the thread
of his remarks. Much interest was aroused in the French language by this splendid lecture.

DAVIDSON BASEBALL SEASON (Continued from page 1)

The big town will be in readiness for the baseball classic of the year. Old Davidson, after three games on
the hill, will be primed for hitting Carolina, and though that bunch isn’t saying much, don’t think it's because they
aren't doing anything. They have a scrappy bunch, but they'll meet a scrappier crew! Remember that football game last fall?
Suppose their baseball team can do any better? Come on now, two hundred and fifty in a big “NO.”

Easter Monday the Wildcat baseball contingent leaves for Winston-Salem. The faculty has done its part nobly. The petition for a
holiday is stamped with a big “YES.” It’s now up to two hundred and fifty sons of Davidson to get
right, get a ticket, get aboard, and get Carolina's scalp. Trains leave at 6:13 a.m., getting there at 9 o'clock,
and 12:23 a.m., arriving at 3 o'clock. The big part of the rooters will leave early and look over the
Twin City at leisure before going out to the game at 2:45 p.m. The Kiwanis Club of Winston has charge
of the game, so rest assured that things will be attended to in a proper manner.

SCORE R. O. T. C. RIFLE TEAM.

Finch, W. M. .......... 46 48 45 44 183
Martindale, G. B. ...... 42 48 44 45 179
Romefelt, B. W. ........ 44 48 43 42 177
Cochran, R. M. ......... 44 46 44 43 177
Fewell, Ed. ............ 43 48 42 42 175
McCutchen, J. ......... 43 44 43 44 174
Price, Paul ............ 41 42 44 44 171
Fraser, T. L. .......... 42 45 41 42 170
Summers, A. C. ........ 49 45 40 42 167
Moore, W. W. .......... 37 43 41 43 164
Total ................. 422 457 427 431 1737

Mrs. Catherine Vickery, of Rochester, N. Y., and Miss Mamie Helen Oetzel, of Union, S. C., will be guests of
the Misses Scofield for the Easter holidays.

Among the notable persons seen in the audience were Count Jones, Major Rogers, and Monsieur C. K. Brown. Among those
indulging in the terpsichorean art besides Cop and T. B., were Doc La Far, Rod Shaw, M. Erwin, McGill, M.
McLeod, and McCain. Refreshments consisted of sky-juice, served in paper sacks by occupants of third floor Rumple.

Watch the would-be tennis players rush for the new courts!

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Young Men at Pre-War Prices

BROS.

DAVIDSON McDOWELL DOUGLASS, MINISTER AND EDUCATOR.

Is Now President of South Carolina Presbyterian College.

Davidson McDowell Douglass, '95, was born at Blackstock, S. C., June 20, 1869. His parents were Rev. James Douglas and
Mrs. Margaret Douglas. Entering Davidson at the age of 21, he received his A.B. degree in 1895. Pursuing his education
further, he went to Louisville Theological Seminary, and in 1899 received his B.D. degree from Columbia Theological Seminary. Dr. Douglas
studied at Princeton from 1899 to 1900 and at Johns Hopkins from 1904 to 1906. In September 1903, Dr. Douglas
married Miss Lydia Welch of Pittsburgh. He was ordained to the Presbyterian ministry in 1900 and held the pastorship of
the Brevard and Davidson River churches for four years. In 1904, he was called to the Maryland Avenue Church in
Baltimore where he remained for seven years. When the Presbyterian College of South Carolina was founded in 1911, Dr. Douglas
was called to be its first president and is now holding that position. Two of Dr. Douglas’ brothers, Drs. J.
M. and J. L., are prominent members of the Davidson faculty, while another brother Robert is a lawyer of Chester,
S.C. He also has two sisters: Miss Kate Douglas who is teaching in the Davidson school and Miss Margaret Douglas
who is a missionary.

LIBRARY NEWS.

Among the books added to the library the last week were eight by the three standard authors, Wells, Galsworthy, and
Dumas. The Man In The Iron Mask is perhaps the best known of Dumas, but his others are Memoirs of
a Physician, The Queen's Necklace, The Chevalier of Maison Rouge, Ange Pitou, and The Black Tulip. Galsworthy is represented by
his Man of Property, while Wells’ book is Century of French Fiction.

C. T. Overton, J. B. Sizer, Ed Hamerick, and Brown Hamer motored over to Salisbury Friday and spent Friday night
there.

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. Our gloves range from 30 cents to $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of
bats at your order. CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN 5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248
