With the exit of the football season, all attention is now being turned to basketball. Gymnasiums all over the South are the scenes of heated action in this branch of athletics. College and Y. M. C. A. teams are being rounded into shape and indeed not a few have already played several games.

At Davidson, things have taken on a definite form and with the Varsity squad picked, there is quite a fight being waged for berths on the team. Coach Hengeveld, former star basket tosser of three years ago, as well as twirler on the baseball team, has the squad in hand and is fast rounding out a team which should be one of the best in years. “Coach” has a varied selection of plays and is drilling the men for two and a half hours every night, in the finer points of the game. Besides Coach Grey, there is also one D. M. Chalmers, last year’s captain and crack guard, who is helping to train especially the guards.

The first game comes next Tuesday with the Charlotte “Y” in the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. gymnasium. A large delegation from the student body will go down with the team, and a hot fight is looked forward to, this being the opening game for the Wildcats.

Just in this connection, we might mention the fact that the Queen City “Y” bowed in defeat last week to the Winston-Salem “Y” by the close score of 32 to 26. The Twin City has a scrapping aggregation composed of some of the most famous Southern collegiate stars.

Mercer trimmed the quint from Georgia Tech by the narrow margin of one point, winning in a 20 to 19 contest.

Trinity, 40; Un. of S. C., 12.
U.N. C., 34; Un. of S. C., 15.
N. C. State, 25; Un. of S. C., 24.

Seems as if the Gamecocks hit a bad beginning on their invasion of the Tar Heel State. Their opponents ran up a total of 99 points against 51 for the Palmetto lads.

The Clemson Tigers routed Wofford 37 to 24. Looks as if the Cadets have another well-oiled machine.

Georgia took the measure of Furman in a regular walk-away. The lads from the Cracker State waded through the Purple Hurricane’s defense, rolling up 69 points to their opponents’ 25.

From down in Alligator land comes the news that one of our enemies, the U. of Florida, was downed in a 36 to 18 contest by Stetson University.

Games This Week:
Saturday, 22nd—N. C. State vs. Trinity at Durham.
Tuesday, 25th—Davidson vs. Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte.
Wednesday, 26th—Un. of N. C. vs. Trinity at Durham.
Thursday, 27th—N. C. State vs. Guilford at Guilford.

We Want 300 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

CLASS FOOTBALL BEGINS NEXT WEEK
Large Number of Men Trying for Positions on Various Teams.

Much interest is being developed on the Hill in the near approaching class football games. These games will likely begin within the next week and already a large number of men are out to defend the honor of their various classes on the gridiron. A great deal of enthusiasm has been shown in elections recently held and the following men have been selected to lead their teams:

Senior: Carter, captain and manager.
Junior: McFadden, manager; Summers, captain.
Sophomore: S. M. Davis, manager; Sorrells, captain.
Freshman: LaGare, manager; Fields, captain.

Some of the class teams are handicapped because of the rule making “D” and “D. C.” men ineligible. However, several men who have received Varsity practice are showing up in fine shape, as well as some “dark horses” who have made their presence felt in practices. As yet the Seniors have been unable to hold a practice, but with the opening up of the weather they promise a strong comeback. The Juniors are out in full force and are whipping themselves into shape to give the others a close run for honors. Those who have reported for practice and are showing up well are: L. Dick, L. Erwin, Captain Summers, McLaughlin, R. Knight, J. Knight, Black, Moore, Harris, Story, Roddy, Bitzer, Sprunt, and Dunlap.

The Sophs, true to their name, are out for blood and are hard at work to make speed overcome their lack of weight. Adams, Captain Sorrells, Dantzler, Mauze, McCuen, Roberts, Lewis, Tucker, Warren, Moore, Elliott, Allen, Baldwin, and Wiley.

The Fresh have an unusually heavy bunch and have a fine chance of winning out, according to rumor. Those who are out practicing are: Stockard, Hunter, Oliver, Overton, Captain Fields, LaGare, manager; Briggs, Morrow, Brown, Cox, Clark, Booth, Carruthers, Chipman, De Lorme, Fenton, Fleming, McCrary, McJunkin, McLain, Yonan, and Young.

We Want 300 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

NEW INSTRUCTORS ADDED TO R. O. T. C. PERSONNEL

Sergeant Young, of the Fifth Division, has arrived to assist in the R. O. T. C. work. He will assist Mr. Ryan in drilling the freshmen, as well as keep up the rifle range and assist in the machine gun instruction. Sergeant Young is a veteran in the army, having had 14 years’ service, part of which has been in the Philippines and China. He served 18months in France and went through most of the major operations without a scratch. His native state is Kentucky, the land of the bluegrass. Staff Sergeant McClellan, of the Sixteenth Machine Gun Battalion of the Sixth Division, at Camp Grant, Ill., will report this week for duty. He is said to be a wizard at handling a machine gun. He will act as supply sergeant and also will have charge of the machine gun instruction. Lieut. Murray H. Ellis, from the Twelfth Cavalry, at Del Rio, Tex., will arrive this week. He will have charge of the theoretical instruction of the freshmen. The office hours for students will be from 3 to 5 daily, except on Saturday, on which day it will be from 11 to 12.

We Want 800 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

COACH GREY ENTERTAINS FOOTBALL TEAM AND MANAGERS AT BANQUET

On last Tuesday evening at 6:30, Coach and Mrs. Hugh Grey entertained the men who made their “D” in football this year, at a banquet. It was a function that will long be remembered by the “Wearers of the D,” for according to them they had turkey, more turkey, and then to cap the climax of the feast, a little more turkey. Aside from the turkey part of the dinner, there were eight other courses, which received their full share of attention. Those enjoying the repast beside the “D” men were Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, and “Buck” Curry. After the banquet, a general good time and smoker was enjoyed and the guests departed pronouncing it the best time they had had since Pocahontas was a papoose. The only disappointment of the evening was to “Doc” LaFar, who was not allowed to deliver the speech which he had so carefully prepared.

We Want 800 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

D. R. LAFAR ELECTED CAPT. OF FOOTBALL TEAM

Romefelt Resigned on Account of Probable Withdrawal From College.

At a meeting of the 1920 football “D” men, B. W. Romefelt, captain-elect of the 1921 team, asked that another captain be elected in his place because of the uncertainty of his return next year. Acquiescing to his request, the team elected D. R. LaFar, “Romeo's running mate” at guard, to lead the team in next year’s battles. The whole school is sorry that Romeo feels it necessary to decline the honor offered him by the team but more sorry to think that there is an uncertainty about his returning next fall. If fortune does decree that he shall not return to his alma mater, it will indeed be a hard matter to find a man who could fill that position in the line which he has played so admirably. Romeo's side-partner at guard, “Doc” LaFar, is a player well fitted to take his place. For two years “Doc” has filled his position at guard with an ability which none dispute. His strength and headwork presage the taking of many a scalp by Davidson's sturdy warriors in the ensuing season.

We Want 800 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

TOWN HAPPENINGS.

Misses Mary O. Graham and M. V. Davis, of Peace Institute, spent the Christmas holidays with Professor and Mrs. Currie. Mrs. J. P. Paisley gave a very delightful neighborhood party during the holidays. Professor and Mrs. Currie gave a New Year's party to Miss Davis and Hugh Grey. Jack Black and his bride spent Christmas holidays with his mother in Davidson. Mr. J. E. Johnston and Mrs. Fred Hays have been spending the holidays with their mother, Mrs. Lola Johnston. The Sunday School Christmas tree on Christmas Eve was attended by a large crowd. Everyone was happy and enjoyed themselves to the fullest extent. George and Charles Robson spent the Christmas holidays with their mother. Misses Elizabeth and Gordon Baskerville spent the holidays with Mrs. Robson.

JANUARY 21, 1921.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records

We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

LIFE INSURANCE- A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.” Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N.C. CAPITAL--ONE MILLION DOLLARS

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank Of Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President W. E. HOLT, Vice-President A. G. TROTTER, Cashier T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.