im) Alumni News

DAVIDSON SUFFERS LOSS IN DEATH OF MAJOR HARPER.

Graduating in Class of '59, He Rendered His State Marked Service as Soldier and Citizen.

In the death of Major Harper at his home in Lenoir Wednesday, March 16th, Davidson lost one of her oldest alumni and staunchest friends, and the state of North Carolina one of her most valued citizens. Only a few days ago the writer was a guest in his home, where all members of the household showed the respect, deference, and affection due to a man of the Major’s age, character, and position. He exhibited many things of interest about his home and in the bank that he founded 23 years ago and of which he was still president. Among other things of interest, he showed me a portrait of his father who came down from the Scotch-Irish of Pennsylvania in the early days to find health in the pure air of Western North Carolina. At the Presbyterian Church on the previous day, the Major, for long years an esteemed elder, was in his accustomed place, interested in all things pertaining to the Church.

Major Harper was born in Caldwell county in 1834 and entered Davidson College in September, 1855, as a member of the class of '59, though not remaining to graduate. This was just a few years after the two halls of the literary societies had been erected, and before the foundations of Chambers was laid. In this class were men who later attained great distinction in the life of the State and Church. Among these were judges J. D. McIver, Armistead Burwell, and R. T. Bennett, of the Superior Court of North Carolina, the last serving also in Congress for a number of years; Hon. L. L. Polk, founder of the department of Agriculture of this state, editor of The Progressive Farmer, president of the National Farmers Alliance, and member of the State Constitutional Committee; Rev. Dr. W. S. Lacy, for many years the leading pastor of Norfolk and father of our present state treasurer; Rev. Dr. J. M. P. Otts, scholar, author, and founder of the “Otts Lectureship” at Davidson. As we read this list of names, along with many others of note appearing in a single class, we are restrained to remark that “giants dwelt in the land” in those days.

Most of Major Harper's classmates became soldiers in the Confederate Army, some attaining distinction, while a goodly number fell in battle or died in service. As we study the history of men who attended Davidson in ante-bellum days, and note the large proportion of those surviving the Civil War who attained eminence in various walks of life, we are reminded afresh of the irreparable loss sustained by our South Land to the god of war. Major Harper enlisted in 1862 in Co. H, 58th N. C. Infantry, and rose steadily to the rank of Major. This regiment saw service at Chickamauga and on many other battlefields of Tennessee and Georgia, and the Carolinas until it surrendered in Guilford county in April, ‘65, as a part of Gen. J. E. Johnston’s army. Major Harper was wounded at Resaca, Ga. In the State Hall of History in Raleigh are found various articles used by members of this regiment during the war—all the gifts of Major Harper.

After the war, Major Harper returned to Caldwell county, where from that time onward he was identified with the business, church, and social life of the town and county. He played a prominent part in the construction of the C. & N. W. R. R., to which the town and county so largely owe their development. For years Major Harper...was a Trustee of Davidson College and of Concord Presbytery, and for many years he was a general contributor to the support of the work of both. His son, G. F. Harper, of the class of '86, a few years ago succeeded the Major as a trustee of Davidson; while his grandson, Capt. James Harper of the class of '15, of The Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., Winston-Salem, is one of the most loyal and enthusiastic of Davidson’s younger alumni. Thus it is that the expansion of Davidson in recent years, its increasing material equipment, its growing body of students, its loyal young alumni, are traced back in many cases more than one generation to students like Major Harper, with memories clustering around the lotte. 

Men of sterling worth and character, loyal to every ennobling influence, who served their day and generation, and now rest from their labors. Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.

J. P. Williams, '16, with Mrs. Williams, of Montreat, N. C., spent the weekend with Dr. Martin. Dr. Robert H. Crawford, '10, of Rutherfordton, N. C., will be married early in April to Miss Sarah Tanner, of Charlotte. The friends of J. N. Van Devanter, '15, will be sorry to learn that he has suffered a relapse at Albuquerque, Mexico. His sister left Virginia last week to join him. Augustus Leagar, '11, is constructing an airplane with the Booker Auto Company of Raleigh, N. C. Dr. A. M. McKeithen, '16, and R. W. McKay, ex-'17, both at Johns Hopkins, will be the physicians at Camp Sapphire this summer. Messrs. U. S. Alexander, '15, and R. C. Garth, '19, of Charlotte, attended a French lecture Friday evening. B. O. Clarke, ex-'21, is now in the insurance business at Salisbury, N. C. He is a member of the firm of Clarke and Smith.

Dr. J. P. Munroe, '82, is spending a few days at the home of Dr. J. M. Douglas while recovering from a light attack of grippe. The class of '07 is preparing for a reunion at commencement. Mr. T. D. Dupuy, comptroller of the Southern Life and Trust Company at Greenville and assistant treasurer of the million-dollar campaign, is handling the correspondence with respect to the reunion and class banquet.

Dr. Martin has returned from Salisbury Sanitorium, recovered from his attack of grippe.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 25-W
CORNELIUS, N.C.

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
New Central Hotel
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

You can smoke Camels till the cows come home without tiring your taste!

CAMELS bring to you every joy you ever looked for in a cigarette! They are so new to your taste, so delightful in their mellow mildness and flavor, and so refreshing, you will marvel that so much enjoyment could be put into a cigarette! To the most fastidious smoker, Camels are a revelation! Camels quality is as unusual as Camels expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos which you will prefer to either kind of tobacco smoked straight! No matter how liberally you smoke, Camels never will tire your taste! And, your delight will also be keen when you realize that Camels leave no unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor. For your own personal proof, compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at any price.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, N. C.