THE DAVIDSONIAN, Alumni News

DANIEL HARVEY HILL. Son of Gen. D. H. Hill Wins Prominence as Educator and Author.

Dr. Daniel Harvey Hill, ‘80, of Raleigh was born at Davidson, N. C., in 1859. His parents, General Daniel H.
and Mrs. Isabella Morrison Hill entered him in Davidson College in 1876. Dr. Hill received his A.B. and M.A. degrees
from this institution and in 1910 his LL.D. from the University of North Carolina.

Dr. Hill was professor of English in the Georgia Military and Agricultural College from 1880-89. While at this school he
married Miss Pauline White, of Milledgeville, Ga. After leaving Georgia Dr. Hill accepted the chair of English in North Carolina
State College. He became vice-president of this institution in 1905 and president in 1908. At the urgent requests of his
many friends Dr. Hill resigned his executive post to write a history of North Carolina troops during the Civil War.
Dr. Hill is a member of the State Historical Commission and also of the editorial board of the North Carolina
Review. At a recent meeting in Raleigh he was elected to the presidency of the Historical and Literary Society of
this state. Dr. Hill is an author of note, being joint editor of the Hill Readers and editor of a
young people's history of North Carolina, also a history of North Carolina troops during the Civil War. Davidson is proud
to number such men as Dr. Hill among her alumni and is watching with eager interest for further achievements of
her sons.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D., 1878, will deliver a course of lectures at Davidson about the middle of March on
the Otts Foundation. Dr. Moore is so well known and so greatly beloved at Davidson that his coming is always
a marked event in the year.

Any student of Davidson's history will be interested in the fact that few of her alumni have gone into politics.
In view of that condition it is unusual to find eight Davidson men in the present legislature of North Carolina.
In the Senate are Messrs. John A. Scott, 1910, R. M. Oates, 1888, L. M. Blue, 1886, and W. R.
Walker, 1875. In the House of Representatives are F. L. Fuller, ex-1914, Paul D. Grady, ex-1912, Reid Morrison, 1902, and
E. H. Bellamy, ex-1910. Major J. E. Carter, 1915, is a member of the Governor's staff.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, 1906, of Dillon, S. C., has resigned his pastorate to take up work in Virginia.

W. C. Knight, ex-1921, is now in business at Selma, Ala.

Friends of Dr. and Mrs. Porter P. Vinson, 1909, of Rochester, Minn., are congratulating them on the arrival of Miss
Mary Lenore, on January 29th. Dr. Vinson is a member of the medical staff of the Mayo Hospital.

J. M. Rumple, ex-1913, now of Columbus, Ohio, will be married on February the fifth to Miss Jessie Isabel Irwin.

Kenneth J. Foreman, 1911, was married during the holidays to Miss Wilson of Texas. Mr. Foreman will complete his theological
course in May and at the same time Mrs. Foreman will graduate from the Training School at Richmond.

W. P. Parker, 1911, who is supported by the student body of Davidson, has taken up his work anew in
Pyengyang, Korea, after a furlough in this country.

Dr. R. H. Lafferty, 1899, an eminent x-ray specialist of Charlotte, has been made president of the American Radiological Society
convened in Chicago.

J. S. Morse, 1904, of Abbeville, S.C., was on the hill a few days ago.

C. A. McGirt, 1920, is now principal of the High School at Doerun, Ga.

L. G. Calhoun, 1920, is teaching at the Chamberlain Hunt Military Academy at Port Gibson, La.

F. N. Morgan, ex-1922, is in the paint and varnish business at Boston, Mass.

Rev. T. N. Stevenson, 1912, is now pastor at Barnesville, Ga.

R. R. Clark, 1919, has recently undergone a severe operation at St. Joseph's Hospital, Savannah, Ga. He is reported to
be improving rapidly.

A. L. Foscue, 1920, was a visitor on the hill last Saturday. “Foss” is now working in a chemical factory
at Mt. Holly, N.C.

J. M. Smith, 1913, is prospering in the sale of Ford cars in Easley, S. C.

The marriage of Dr. G. R. Wilkinson, 1912, and Miss Mary Lydia McAllister of Covington, Va., was celebrated on January
5th. L. H. Anderson, 1912, was the best man. Dr. Wilkinson is a physician in Greenville, S. C.

J. R. Wilkinson, 1915, recently returned to Madison, Wis., from a trip to Washington where he stood the examination for
consular service.

S. T. McCloy, 1918, who is now at Oxford University has recently returned to England from a six weeks trip
to France.

H. D. Dishough, 1918, is now studying medicine at Columbia University.

Capt. M. C. McLeod, 1913, of Red Springs, N. C., was lately discharged from the U. S. Army.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

WHAT YOUR COPY OF 1921 QUIPS AND CRANKS WILL MEAN TO YOU

Did you ever stop to think that if your College Annual was ever gotten out for you alone it would
cost you $3,000? That is what it costs to engrave and print such a publication, and when you think of
the small sum that you have to pay for it, it should make you realize more than ever the earnest
effort that is put into the publishing of this book, so that you can have an Annual to take home
with you that costs you next to nothing.

During the War, when everything was curtailed, a large University decided to do away with the Annual, that is, the
Faculty so decided. The student body immediately circulated a petition and decided that they should not discontinue the book, and
by all means should publish it. Girls were elected as business managers and editors and undertook this tremendous task, achieving
remarkable success.

This simply demonstrates the place a College Annual holds in the hearts of the student body of an educational institution.
There is no other publication printed by your College that is such a big factor in arousing young men or
young women to come to your school for an education. The High School students devour the contents of these great
college publications from cover to cover. They read with keen interest the athletic achievements of the college and take great
pride in the fine recordThe school has made on gridiron, track, and diamond. It is on the library table of
a great many of the High Schools of the state, eagerly read by boys and girls who look forward to
the time when they will come to our college. During the Great War, the only picture that a mother had
of her boy who was killed in action was one she found printed in his college annual, a snapshot taken
by his college mates. You can readily realize how she prized this book. To her, it was a treasure that
no money could buy.

The College Annual is much more than a class book. It is a record of one’s achievements; it is a
visualization of your activities during the period of your life when you were preparing for the great future. Many years
later, you are going to look back upon the days when you attended college, and it will be like living
those glorious days over again when you can look at these pages and have spread before you illustrations and pictures
of your college friends, of your college activities, of college pranks. Unfortunately, it is during these earlier days that we
fail to realize how quickly time passes. Fifteen years later, you are going to prize your College Annual more than
you do now. You will look at it many and many a time, and it will be a source of
endless pleasure to you and those that are dear to you.

A college Annual is not like a popular book that is printed with a large run; only a limited number
of books can be put forth, and because of only having this small number, there are bound to be a
great many disappointed people. So it is a case of act while the opportunity is before you, and secure a
copy of your Annual early so as to ensure having it and taking it home with you during the vacation
period. We feel that you will realize the value of having an annual this year, and we urge that you
delay no longer in securing your copy of the publication. To put a matter of this kind off until later
might result in your not obtaining a copy of the Year Book. Procrastination always did spell “failure.” It is the
positive, decisive person that gets ahead. Decide NOW to purchase your extra.

——We Want 16 Class Reunions in 1921——

RECEIVES NEW MEMBER

The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon held its regular meeting last Wednesday night at the home of Dr. E.
F. The inclemency of weather did not prove a great enough obstacle to keep a large number from being present.
A large part of the program was devoted to the initiation of neophyte D. R. Freeman into the mysteries of
Beetle- Freeman’s initiation theme was a humorous travesty on “American Free-”

SIGMA UPSILON

C. H. Long told the chapter the general plan for another continued story. J. E. Cassell read a book review
on one of Dr. Latane’s latest works in a historical series. Plans are being made to have a joint meeting
of Sigma Upsilon and the Booklover's Club in the near future. A delicious collation was served after the meeting adjourned.

——We Want 100 Class Reunions in 1921——

“We are so easily satisfied and therefore we miss much of the fun of living.”

FEBRUARY 4, 1921.

TOWN NEWS.

Lieutenant and Mrs. Ellis are housekeeping for the present in the Houston home.

Professor Currie lectured to the Young Men’s Bible Class at Mooresville last Sunday. Coach Hengeveld has been suffering from a
severe case of tonsillitis for the past week.

The best Dyers South produced by the Greatest Artists 218 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626

How is a Wireless Message Received?

The incandescent lamp has a filament. Mount a metal plate on a wire in the lamp near the filament. A
current leaps the space between the filament and the plate when the filament glows. Edison first observed this phenomenon in
1883. Hence it was called the “Edison effect.” Scientists long studied the “effect” but they could not explain it satisfactorily.
Now, after years of experimenting with Crookes tubes, X-ray tubes, and radium, it is known that the current that leaps
across is a stream of “electrons”—exceedingly minute particles negatively charged with electricity. These electrons play an important part in wireless
communication. When a wire grid is interposed between the filament and the plate and charged positively, the plate is aided
in drawing electrons across; but when the grid is charged negatively, it drives back the electrons. A very small charge
applied to the grid, as small as that received from a feeble wireless wave, is enough to vary the electron
stream. So the grid in the tube enables a faint wireless impulse to control the very much greater amount of
energy in the flow of electrons, and so radio signals too weak to be perceived by other means become perceptible
by the effects that they produce. Just as the movement of a throttle controls a great locomotive in motion, so
a wireless wave, by means of the grid, affects the powerful electron stream. All this followed from studying the mysterious
“Edison effect”—a purely scientific discovery. No one can foresee what results will follow from research in pure science. Sooner or
later, the world must benefit practically from the discovery of new facts. For this reason, the Research Laboratories of the
General Electric Company are concerned as much with investigations in pure science as they are with the improvement of industrial
processes and products. They, too, have studied the “Edison effect” scientifically. The result has been a new form of electron
tube, known as the “pliotron,” a type of X-ray tube free from the vagaries of the old tube; and the
“kenetron,” which is called by electrical engineers a “rectifier” because it has the property of changing an alternating into a
direct current. All these improvements followed because the Research Laboratories try to discover the “how” of things. Pure science always
justifies itself.

General Electric Company General Office Schenectady, NY.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new The Ben Vonde Co. in the Agency
At the Powerhouse

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. Charlotte, N.C.
