THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

Wilson’s Room Was Last to Go in Chambers Fire

(Continued from page 1)

Dr. C. R. Harding Tells of Influences That Helped to Make the Man.

While it is true that the life story of the father of Woodrow Wilson is in no way so eventful
or dramatic as that of his son, widely known in newspaper parlance today as the Lame Lion of S Street,
Washington, yet the distinguished son had a distinguished father to whom he is indebted for gifts and graces of a
remarkably high order and for an environment and an atmosphere from infancy into mature years that were of inestimable value
in their contribution toward molding the character, informing the taste, and directing the ambition of this son.

Rev. Dr. Joseph Ruggles Wilson was born February 28, 1822, at Steubenville, Ohio, the home of his father, James Wilson,
at that time publisher of the Western Herald. Judge Wilson came to this country from Ireland about 114 years ago.
He was married in Philadelphia at the manse of the Fourth Presbyterian Church in 1808 to Anne Adams, who came
over to America on the same ship with the man she was to marry. The Wilsons were of Scotch-Irish descent
and as a family seem to have inherited all of the strong traits, physical, intellectual, and moral, that have characterized
this sturdy and stalwart people.

Joseph R. Wilson was the youngest son of Judge James Wilson. As a boy he learned the printer’s trade, but
not with a view to making journalism or this craft his life’s work. It was early understood that the ministry
was his true choice. After completing the course of study in the Steubenville Academy, he entered Jefferson College, at Washington,
Pa. He graduated here in 1844 and then became a student of theology at the Western Theological Seminary, Allegheny, Pa.
Later he went to Princeton Seminary where he continued his studies. Upon his return to Steubenville from Princeton, he accepted
a position as teacher in the local Male Academy. While filling his engagement here he made the acquaintance of Janet
Woodrow, a beautiful young woman, and in due course of time entered into another engagement of a more absorbing kind
that resulted in his marriage to Miss Woodrow.

Janet Woodrow’s father was a Scotch minister, his profession being in keeping with the traditions of the family, which also
acknowledged kinship with the Covenanters. Rev. Thomas Woodrow, the grandfather of Woodrow Wilson, with his eight children, came to Canada
from the old country in 1836 but in the following year moved to Chillicothe, Ohio, where he resided for a
number of years. Two weeks after Joseph Wilson's marriage he was ordained by the Presbytery of Ohio, but he did
not at once enter the pastorate. He accepted an appointment to the chair of Rhetoric in Jefferson College. However, he
remained here only a year. His next work was at Hampden-Sidney College, Virginia, where for a period of four years
he was a member of the faculty and taught the natural sciences and mathematics, all the while preaching as occasion
offered to neighboring congregations or in the pulpits of the college church or of Union Seminary, then at Hampden-Sidney.

It will be noted that though he had studied for the ministry and his training had been largely along theological
lines yet he was elected to teach Rhetoric at Jefferson and then to teach Science at Hampden-Sidney, a striking proof
that he early evinced a versatility of talent and a roundness of scholarship possible only for one well endowed by
nature and one who had added to this intellectual endowment an equipment that only comes from hard study. In 1855
the young professor was called to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church in Staunton, Va., and moved there with his
wife and his two daughters. A year later Woodrow Wilson was born.

The first Presbyterian Church of Augusta, Ga., extended an invitation to Dr. Wilson in '58 to become its pastor. The

(Continued on page 12)

Around Before Getting No. 13.

“Fire is no respecter of persons, it is impartial, heartless—it takes within its devastating grasp the property of rich and
poor, of great and small, it even takes the lives of any who may dare to come within its terrible
domain.” Surely all will agree with the writer of the above, and yet—had he been present on the morning of
November 28 when fire, that dreaded horror, took hold upon the grand old building of Chambers, which embodied the very
heart of old Davidson, and changed it in the course of a few minutes from a magnificent, grand, imposing structure
to a mass of crumbling walls and smouldering ashes; he would have had to modify his statement. For even in
the most terrible form in which it has visited the college in its history, fire showed that it is not
entirely heartless and impartial, as the writer has claimed.

For years certain rooms in North Wing Chambers have been sending up a mute appeal which has gone unnoticed, unheard
by all. One could almost hear Number Thirteen say, as he passed down the hall, “Did not I for two
whole years shelter the greatest American of all times? Did not I throw my arms around Woodrow Wilson and protect
him while as a student he worked, studied, played, talked, and slept within my walls? And yet, I remain unhonored,
no tablet adorns my walls, no bust stands over my mantle, no inscription tells the world what a great man
I once held. Men seem not to care; occasionally someone will mention these facts, but the rest go by not
taking time to give me honor. Won't someone honor me?”

And the call went unheeded until fire came along. He, too, heard the appeal, and he decided to do what
man had failed to do, to give honor to whom honor is due. Slowly, surely, his destroying hand swept before
it room after room in the old building, and gradually he came nearer and nearer to Number Thirteen. But there,
he seemed to want to stop. He ate into all the rooms around; his piercing flames could be seen on
all sides, and yet the old room was untouched. The room was still calling, and in its death-agonies the call
was heard by fire who responded in his own way and paid his homage to the name of Woodrow Wilson.
Though holding off as long as possible, the very nature of fire himself pushed him on and Number Thirteen, unhonored
during its life but crowned in its death, was no more.

D. “Bobbie” Long, ’24, has withdrawn from college and will enter the University of North Carolina after the holidays. W.
G. Raker, ’25, will likewise cast his lot with those at Chapel Hill, having returned to his home in Lexington
last week.hours from a magnifi- | Did not I throw my sheltering! | In Public Life. | The election of
Dr. Wilson as Governor of New Jersey by an enormous majority in a Republican state in 1910, and under his
leadership the enactment of the “Seven Sisters” (economic and political reforms) into law in the state pointed the way to
the White House. Scores of Davidson students, under the direction of the writer, went to the national capitol and took
part in the inaugural parade March 4, 1913. Suffice it to say that during President Wilson’s first administration in Washington,
more beneficial legislation was put on the statute books than during any other period three times as long since the
days of President Washington.

As for his acts as party leader, as statesman, orator, diplomat, chief of army and navy, peace dictator and negotiator,
defender of democracy, world-idealist, behold, are they not written in the chronicles of the nations of the earth? Thos. W.
Lingle.

D. WILSON ACCOMPLISHED MUCH: (Continued from page 1)

The second provision of the peace settlement that Mr. Wilson advocated was that of colonial mandates. This idea was incorporated
in an article of the League Covenant. In one of the famous fourteen points was this statement: “A free, open-minded,
and absolutely impartial adjustment of all colonial claims, based upon a strict observance of the principle that in determining all
questions of sovereignty the interests of the populations concerned must have equal weight with the equitable claims of the government
whose title is to be determined.” This was the same principle contained in the plan of self-determination for the European
states but it was given a new and different application. For centuries the stronger and more enlightened nations of the
world had been accustomed to seize upon and to exploit the resources of undeveloped peoples and lands, regardless of the
rights and desires of the native inhabitants. The plan of President Wilson, which was accepted by the conference, was to
make these backward races the wards of the enlightened and responsible nations and as they developed to grant them the
rights of self-government. It was America's avowed policy toward the Philippines given world application. These two provisions of the peace
settlement—national self-determination and colonial mandates—were in a sense a declaration of independence for all the oppressed peoples of earth, proclaimed
in their behalf by the President of the United States.

The greatest achievement of Mr. Wilson at Paris was the agreement known as the Covenant of the League of Nations.
This international cooperation to prevent future wars was nearer the President’s heart than any other subject that came before the
conference and his leadership and success in making the covenant a part of the peace treaty placed him in the
first rank of world statesmen. America had entered the war not only to save the cause of human freedom, but
also to destroy militarism and to make war impossible in the future, and President Wilson refused to make a treaty
unless the League of Nations was an integral part of it. The Covenant of the League needs no explanation. It
is a great world document, a kind of international constitution, or Magna Charta, guaranteeing the rights of mankind everywhere. Its
idealism is found in the consciousness of the universal brotherhood of man and its practical exemplification in the empire of
British commonwealths and in the Federal Union of the United States.

The first of these was the adoption by the conference of the principle that the national aspirations of the peoples
of Europe should be satisfied. In his speech before Congress, February 11, 1918, President Wilson said: “National aspirations must be
respected; peoples may now be dominated and governed only by their own consent. ‘Self-determination’ is not a mere phrase. It
is the principle of justice to all peoples and nationalities, and their right to live on terms of liberty and
safety with one another, whether they be strong or weak.” This principle was adopted by the conference and as a
result the new map of Europe came into existence, realizing national hopes that had been suppressed for generations. Poland, Czecho-Slovakia,
and Jugo-Slavia became independent nations; Roumania was enlarged to include Roumanians; Italy acquired possession of former Austrian territory inhabited by
Italians; the Danes of Schleswig were united to Denmark; and Alsace-Lorraine was restored to France.

Though many hope and believe that great good will be accomplished in the present Disarmament Conference, the Washington Conference, is
to the League of Nations as a corollary is to the main proposition. The whole includes all of its parts
with their implications. The fact that a one-time Freshman at Davidson College who went in and out of old Chambers
as others did, who essayed to speak in the literary societies and probably failed, who answered the call of the
college bell to chapel and class, should have reached such an ascendency in world affairs, should have established himself as
the moral and political leader of mankind, and then was able to dictate a world peace guaranteeing freedom to men
everywhere, will always be a source of pride and inspiration to the students and alumni of the college.

COLLEGE HISTORY TELLS OF WILSON’S DAYS AT DAVIDSON (Continued from page 1)

“It was in his literary society work, however, that other definite records besides his grades in scholarship and attendance were
left, and they are characteristic.

“He was initiated into the Eumenean fold on October 4, 1873. On November 1 he was assigned a composition for
two weeks hence, and on December 1 he led the negative of a debate on the query, ‘Resolved, That Republicanism
is a better form of government than a limited monarchy.’ This is most likely the first time that the world-leader
of today made a debating speech. On January 17, he delivered an original oration, the subject of which is not
given. On February 14 he read a composition and on the 28th he spoke on the affirmative of the question,
‘Resolved, That our government should force our children to attend free schools.’ The committee of judges decided in favor of
the negative while the house voted that the affirmative had won, on the merits of the question.

“The society halls at this period were heated by stoves and we find this item: ‘Stove committee, T. Wilson, Sharpe,
Sullivan,’ which had the honor of carrying pine knots to keep the fires going during the long sessions. In March
he was on a committee to judge a debate. In the records of the meeting of March 28, we find
that ‘Scriptures were read and prayer was offered by Mr. T. Wilson.’”
