OH YOU QUEENS THEDA VI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON SONIAN BUCK 'EM GANG | Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 13, 1921. No. 6

Spirit of Blue Ridge Echoed at Y Service
Price, Patterson and McLeod Give Impressions of Y. M. C. A. Summer Conference.

The spirit of Blue Ridge, as it was expressed in the speeches of McLeod, Patterson, and Price, seemed to pervade the atmosphere of the “Y” meeting last Sunday night. After opening the meeting with some songs, a reading of the scriptures, and prayers by Wooten and Baker, Murdock McLeod spoke on the thoughts which were expressed by the lecturers at the conference. Taking up first the lectures of Dr. Sherwood Eddy, he told how Dr. Eddy had spoken on the beggar outside of the beautiful gate of the temple, drawing a comparison between the beggar and the college man outside of God’s gifts. He also lectured on the Psychology of Sin, using Esau and the mess of pottage as his example. Murdock then took up Dean Brown, who lectured on “The Choice of a Life Work,” and told of his lecture, in which he brought out the importance of choosing the right life work and the factors that should be considered in the choice. Lastly, he told what Brother Mark said about the opportunities of Davidson men; the need they could fill and how few of them were seeing and responding to that need. He closed with a quotation expressing the spirit of Blue Ridge: “Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and forever.”

T. H. Patterson next spoke on the “Y. M. C. A.” as a world organization. “Pat” first showed how the “Y” was functioning in this country by telling us of the difficulties and the achievements of the “Y” in aiding the steel workers; its position as an arbiter in several disputes between the workers and their employers. He then told the inspiring story of the Chinese “Y,” how it had grown to a self-supporting organization; recognized as a great power for good in China and how the governments of practically all of the provinces were backing it to the limit. But he also showed how, in spite of its rapid progress, it still needed secretaries, and of the responsibility in this line that rested on the men here.

The last speaker was J. P. Price. After drawing a forceful picture of the different religious positions of the mass of people in the world, he drove home the fact that we should lead a Christian life. He also clearly showed that a Christian life does not mean to merely go through the forms of Christian worship, but to really live close to Christ and to help others to live close to Him. After the speeches, Dwight Chalmers mentioned the plans of the conference next summer, and he and Murdock McLeod, accompanied by J. P. Price, taught the men present the Blue Ridge song. The meeting was closed by a prayer by Dwight.

D. MIMIR SOCIETY RECEIVES R. DEAVER AS MEMBER

At a meeting of the Mimir Society held last Tuesday, R. R. Deaver was initiated into membership. Deaver was due to be taken into the society last spring, but as he left college before the initiation ceremonies were held, his initiation was postponed until this fall. The Mimir Society was organized by certain members of the class of 1915. The purpose of the organization is to promote scholarship, friendship, and intellectual attainment among the students. (Continued on page 4)

DELTA PI KAPPA PLANS FOR PROMOTION OF JOURNALISM

The Delta Pi Kappa Fraternity began what is expected to be a banner year with its first meeting on Friday night, October 7th, in the Beta Theta Pi hall. Plans were laid for a thorough study of the history of journalism, the writing of news articles, editorial and feature writing, and a study of representative newspapers. The library, during the past year, has become well equipped with books of general interest on journalism. On the night of October 21st, the fraternity will have an open meeting for all those interested in news writing or journalism, at which Prof. E. J. Erwin will speak on general phases of journalism and several students will speak on the college publications. Further particulars about this meeting will be announced later.

Davidson Scrubs Tie High School Eleven at Monroe
Boggs and Ballard Star in Backfield. Monroe Passes Good.

In a game featured on the one part by an aerial attack and on the other by line plays, the Davidson Scrubs tied the Monroe High eleven 19-19. From the opening play to the last minute of the game, the High lads pulled their passes with the regularity of clock-work. Two out of every three plays went through the air. A total of 22 passes were completed out of an attempted 32. The uncanny ability of the Monroe lads to hook the spirals in any position was remarkable. The majority of these passes were naturally short ones, but three of them each netted 30 yards. The Scrubs in the air were no good, but on terra firma, line plays never ceased to go. Boggs and Ballard, through the line, always made substantial gains and Overton and Raker, skirting the ends, were also good ground gainers.

In the first quarter, Monroe received and in three completed passes and one line play went for a touchdown. They failed at goal. Monroe again received and on the first play fumbled; Phillips recovered and scored a touchdown. Phillips kicked goal. Davidson received and lost ball on a fumble; Monroe recovered but was held for downs. Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding and punted. By passes, Monroe advanced to Davidson’s goal, but an incomplete pass behind the line gave ball to Davidson. Raker on the first play ran the ends for 25 yards, the longest run of the game.

In the second quarter, Monroe advanced from the middle of the field to Davidson’s two-yard line on five successive completed forward passes. They bucked the line three times for a touchdown. Kicked goal. Davidson received and lost ball on a fumble. Monroe lost ball on a fumble, and Davidson again fumbled. Monroe passed to Davidson’s 20-yard line but was forced to punt. Half.

In the third quarter, Davidson received and by line bucks got within 10 yards of the goal and lost ball on a fumble. Overton intercepted pass but his pass was in turn intercepted. Monroe passed to middle of field, where Davidson intercepted their pass, but had their own pass intercepted again. Monroe passed to Davidson’s 20-yard line, where a pass is blocked, but Monroe recovered and ran for a touchdown. They failed at goal. Davidson received and on straight line bucks took the ball to the goal. Raker pushed it over. Phillips failed at goal.

In the fourth quarter, Monroe received (Continued on page 2)

Five Davidson Beauties Chosen R.O.T.C. Sponsors
Young Ladies to Assist In Military Ceremonies.

The Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Unit of Davidson College added a new chapter to her book of “Annual Events” by electing battalion and company sponsors. This is quite an important event in all the important colleges and universities of the country. The event was installed as an annual function to cultivate more interest in the competitive drills of the battalion. The young ladies that were elected give promise of inspiring the members of the R. O. T. C. to their best efforts. The battalion sponsor was elected by the battalion while the company sponsors were nominated by a committee composed of the officers of each company and elected by their respective companies. There were many young ladies mentioned for the honored positions, but the ones that were finally chosen were as follows: For the Battalion, Miss Orrie Steele; for Company “A,” Miss Helen Gibbs; for Company “B,” Miss Sophie Richards; for Company “C,” Miss Dorothy Finlayson; for Company “D,” Miss Eloise Martin. The young ladies who are to come to the exercises on Armistice Day, and cheer for their respective companies. On that day each company will present an original “stunt,” whichis to be of a military character. The company drilling the best and performing their “stunt” most attractively is to be presented with the honor flag; the sponsor of the winning company taking the flag to her home and keeping it for the company for the rest of the year. For all the battalion parades thereafter, a detail will be sent to the home of the sponsor to accompany her with the flag to the parade grounds, where she will march at the head of her company.

Tennis Players Advance Through Second Matches
Eight Remain to Contest for Places on the Team.

The tennis tournament which is now being played off is one of the most successful that has ever taken place at Davidson. The lovers of the racquet game have shown fine spirit by complying with the desires of the promoters. Probably the best match that has been played off so far is that between Junebug Price and Henry Myers. Both men were playing their best game and seemed to be putting all that they had into the match. Another good match was that between Henry Morris and Louis Wilkinson. The men were evenly matched as shown by the score—4-6; 6-3; 6-2. The outcome of the first round was as follows: Cunningham defeated Dunlap, 6-4; 6-1. Kretchmar defeated Ives, 7-5; 10-8. Price defeated Bradford, 6-4; 6-3.

LYCEUM ATTRACTIONS FOR COMING SEASON ANNOUNCED

The Redpath Lyceum Company will present an excellent program to the students this year, including a male and female quartet, a female trio, a male tenor, and an impersonator. It will be noted that there are no lectures, humorous or otherwise, upon the program. Those interested in dramatics will be glad to hear that two one-act plays will be presented by the Geneva Players, at the end of their musical program, and that one night will be given entirely to the well-known impersonator John B. Ralto. One company also presents a cartoonist.

The first number to be presented will be the Novelty male quartet which will be here November 1st. Playing the violin, flute, cornet, and piano, these young men will furnish an instrumental program which is sure to please. Their vocal music is also of a very high order. Probably the feature which will attract the students more than anything else is their great variety of “novelty stunts,” including comic dialogues, farces, and impersonation. On the whole, the Lyceum promises to be a great success this year, and great praise is due the local managers on their excellent selections.

Coach Grey’s Wildkittens Down Shelby High 27 to 6
High School Lads Put Up Game Fight With College Men.

A mighty conflict was staged in the little town of Shelby on Saturday last, in which the lads from Shelby High were subdued, conquered, and sent beneath the well-known yoke, by the terrible Davidson “Wildkittens,” but only after the aforementioned warriors made a name for themselves which will do justice to any high school of the state. Imbued with the “Wildcat” spirit and inspired by the presence of Coach LaKar, the Scrubs entered the fray with a wholehearted determination to “scrap.” The first half found the Davidsonians at their best, with the line holding fast and the backs running wild. This period ended with the score 20-0, Davidson holding the long end. The second period found the High School boys in a fighting mood and by sheer determination they forged across the last white line one time for a counter, Austell carrying the ball. The college lads also scored again in this frame. Davidson decidedly outplayed the home team, gaining considerably more ground and landing 12 first downs, while Shelby made 5. Brown gained most ground for Davidson, Moore and Crawford coming in for their share of the honors. McLaughlin and Richards showed up in stellar form in the line. The “Hi” boys have been under the able tutelage of Coach Gurley, the mighty back who made his fame with the North Carolina Engineers, and they show great promise for a good season.

Myers defeated Davidson, 6-1; 6-1.
Davidson (27) Position. Shelby (6)
Ormond defeated Staley, 6-2; 6-4. Richards (C) ------ Connor
White defeated Luckie, 6-0; 6-3. Rudasill
Fraser defeated Jones, 6-2; 6-2. McLaughlin ------ Anthony
Jones, W. T., defeated Carr, 5-7; 6-3; McMurray (C)
6-1. Alexander, W. ------ Auten
Wilkinson defeated Morris, 4-6; 6-3; Logan
4-2. Alexander, H. ------ Austell
Gamble defeated Moss, H. O., 6-3; 6-0. Branton
Patterson defeated Keith, 6-1; 7-5. Hennessa
Murray defeated Blue, 7-5; 6-2. Honeycutt
Bradley defeated Moss, H. M., 6-0; 6-1.

Georgia Tech’s Tornado Defeats Wildcat Machine
Engineers’ Backfield Charge Steadily Through Line of Lighter Opponents.

Last Saturday in Atlanta, Georgia Tech easily defeated Davidson, piling up a 70-0 score. The Wildcats were outweighed and outclassed, being on the defensive throughout the game. Davidson did not make a single first down and never carried the ball into Tech's territory. The drive of the Tornado backs was the outstanding feature of the game. Only on four occasions did a Tech runner fail to gain when called upon. However, only two of their touchdowns were the result of this driving style of attack. The first touchdown was made on the fourth play of the game on a pass from Barron to A. Staton, netting 56 yards. Four of the Georgian’s scores were the direct result of Davidson fumbles, while intercepted passes twice put the ball in Tech's possession on Davidson's one-yard line. The Wildcat lineman threw McDonough and Barron without gains and the ball changed hands. For Davidson, Brice and Faison showed up best in the line, while Bethea was the peer of the backfield men. Mason Shields, playing in his own home town, strutted his stuff while backing up the line in the second half. As was expected, Harlan and Barron did the stellar work for Tech.

Davidson (0) Position. Ga. Tech (70)
Sorrells ------ Staton, A.
Brice ------ Borum
Clarke ------ Lyman
Watson ------ McDonough
Moore ------ Sheppard
Long, R. ------ Barron
Harlan

Scoring by periods: Davidson, 0, 0, 0, 0; Georgia Tech, 7, 21, 7, 35—70.
Georgia Tech scoring: Touchdowns, A. Staton, Harlan (4), Brewster (sub for Barron), Farnsworth (sub for Harlan), Ferst, Barron (2). Goals from touchdowns, J. Staton (3), A. Staton (3), Lyman (4). Referee, Finley, Virginia; umpire, Tichenor, Auburn; head linesman, Majors, Auburn. Periods, 15 minutes each.

CALENDAR.
Thursday—Davidsonians arrive.
Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi Society.
Thursday—7:30 p.m., Eu Society.
Friday night—Class Basketball: Seniors vs. Fresh.
Friday—10 p.m., Reporters’ Club.
Saturday—3:30 p.m., Wildcats vs. Wake Forest, in Charlotte.
Saturday—7:30 p.m., Movies.
Sunday—1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
Sunday—3:30 p.m., Bible Class for Davidson Men at Presbyterian Church.
Sunday—4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
Sunday—6:15 p.m., President Sykes, of Coker College, at “Y” Meeting.
Monday—7:00 p.m., Leaders’ Bible Class.
Monday—7:15 p.m., Jr. Phi Society.
Tuesday—7:15 p.m., Jr. Eu Society.
Tuesday night—Class Basketball: Juniors vs. Sophs.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible Classes.

LET’S ALL HELP THE TEAM WIN!