: Welcome, : Fair Visitors!
THEDAVI } FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON . SONIAN
Down With Furman!
Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 24, 1921. No. 12

Dr. H. B. Wright Lectures on Personal Evangelism
Yale Professor of Christian Methods Makes Earnest Appeal for Friendship.

Last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Dr. Henry Wright delivered to Davidson students five lectures on the general subject of “The
Processes of Friendship in Winning Men to Christ.” These addresses were delivered to a group of selected students which met
in Dr. Arbuckle’s classroom for each meeting. A committee of ten men had been appointed in each class to choose
the membership of this smaller group. Owing to the nature of his talks, Dr. Wright persistently refused to address the
whole student body.

During the war, Dr. Wright was the chairman of Christian activities at Camp Devens, Mass., where he had under his
supervision two hundred thousand men. He is now the professor of Christian Methods at Yale Seminary. His wide experience in
aiding scores of men in their struggle to know Christ makes him especially valuable as an instructor in the problem
of dealing with men.

The subject of the first lecture was “What Are We Trying to Do?” Personal evangelism was the central theme. “Personal
evangelism,” said Dr. Wright, “is the art of helping men toward the attainment of a complete life. Personal evangelism is
the attempt to accomplish this through the processes of friendship. The object of personal evangelism is to persuade men through
the ministry of friendship to decide deliberately and whole-heartedly to take the way which leads to fullness of life. The
contagion of one’s personality, working through the process of friendship, is the most effective and only means through which some
can be won.” Evangelism, he said, is concerned with the individual sought and the Christian worker, conversion with God and
the will of the individual to be saved.

Dr. Wright, in his second, third, and fourth lectures, on Friday morning and night, answered several questions of great interest
to anyone wanting to be a real friend. Shall my dominant purpose in college be to get friends or to
be a friend? was the question put by Dr. Wright. These two are as different as hell and heaven, wrong
and right. It is easy enough to get friends by just hanging out a “hard luck” sign and being pleasant,
but to be a friend is a different and better matter. If one would be pure, how shall he detect
the approach of an impure thought? There are four stages in impure thinking: the temptation, the second look, the fascination,
the fall. Any man may have the temptation, but should be sure to stop right there if he would keep
pure.

(Continued on page 3)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Junior Five Wins Season’s Basketball Championship
Seniors Defeat Sophs Early in Week and Then Lose Deciding Game to Juniors.

In one of the hardest-fought games of the class basketball season, the fast Senior five defeated the Sophomore aggregation 37
to 32. The large crowd present was kept in suspense throughout, neither side being able to obtain a substantial lead
until the Ormond-Doubles combination was working true to form in the last few minutes of play and the Seniors piled
up a lead of nine points. However, the spectacular shooting of Elkins, the fast Sophomore forward, had cut this lead
to five points when the final whistle ended the game.

The Senior-Soph Game.

The Seniors started off with a rush before the Sophs got started, then it was “nip and tuck” to the
end of the half, with the Sophs trailing by the count of 18 to 15. The second period had the
same old fight but the plucky underclassmen were never able to lead the Seniors except at one period during this
half. The Ormond-Doubles combination here came to the fore, aided by Price, and pulled the Seniors through. Elkins and McBryde
were the big scorers for the Sophs, while Ormond, Doubles, and Price did the work for the Seniors. The line-up
and summary:

Seniors (37) Position Sophs (32)
Ormond (9)........RF McConnell (6)
Doubles (16)........LF Elkins (10)
Cornelson (4)........C McBryde (8)
Price (4)........LG Myers (0)
Neel (4)........RG Charnley (8)

Substitutions: McPherson for Myers. Field Goals: Ormond (4), Doubles (8), Cornelson (2), Price (2), Neel (2), McConnell (1), Elkins (5),
McBryde (4), Charnley (4). Foul Goals: Ormond 1 out of 1, McConnell 2 out of 4. Referee: Pat.

Mitchell College Girls to Give Pageant Sunday

As a fitting conclusion of Senior Week, the Y. M. C. A. has arranged for fifteen of the girls from
Mitchell College to come down and present a pageant, “The Call of the Nations,” at the vesper service Sunday evening.
Those who attended the Student Volunteer Convention at Trinity will remember this pageant as the one which the Greensboro girls
gave there. The performance was so successful that Davenport College and Mitchell College have copied it, and it has been
reproduced in churches in at least six or eight different places throughout the country.

Hugh H. Smith is Elected Student Vice President

Owing to the fact that Norman Shepard failed to return to college this fall, it has been necessary to elect
another vice-president of the student body to fill that position. On Tuesday of last week, the following names were submitted
by the nominating committee of the Student Council: J. M. Adams, S. M. Davis, R. F. Davidson, and H. H.
Smith. G. W. Mauze was nominated from the floor, and two ballots were taken. The choice of the student body
at the concluding ballot next morning proved to be H. H. Smith. He will fill that position during the present
year.

N. C. State Fresh Team Defeats Wildcat Scrubs

Great Crowd Sees Hard-fought Contest at Pinehurst Winter Resort.

More than eleven thousand people saw the annual Scrub State football game at Pinehurst last Monday. It was the greatest
population that Pinehurst has ever enjoyed on any one day in its history; it was thought to be the largest
that has ever attended a football game in the state. The crowd seemed to enjoy the contest as well as
one of the most successful fairs ever held in the Old North State.

The score, 18-6 in favor of the State Freshmen, doesn’t give even a hint as to the manner in which
the game was played. It was a continued scrap from the time the referee blew his first whistle until the
end of the last quarter. In the first quarter, Jeanette, the fleet State quarterback, skipped around end and through the
broken field of 40 yards for a touchdown. The Wildkittens then received the ball and by the great line plunges
of Hurst and the end runs of

Mr. Bland Roberts Gives Strong Call for Service

Student Volunteer Secretary Addresses Y. M. C. A. on Sunday Night.

The Davidson students were fortunate in having as their “Y” speaker last Sunday evening Mr. Bland Roberts. Mr. Roberts has
recently taken his M.A. degree from Vanderbilt University. He is now traveling secretary for the Student Volunteer Movement and is
also president of the Southern Regional Conference of Student Y. M. C. A's. He expects to enter the seminary next
year.

Taking as his subject “The Complete Life,” the speaker in an interesting and convincing way presented the great need for
earnest Christian men in the foreign field. He said that many men, as he did, had gone through college and
at graduation were undecided what their life work was to be, and appealed to his hearers to consider a life
service in the foreign field. He said it was not an easy life but that nothing was valued that was
easy to accomplish, that the only real life wasThe life of service to one’s fellowmen. How can one better serve
than as a missionary, he asked. The 1921 class basketball tournament, remembered on the campus as the most spirited in
their memory, came to a close Friday night, with the Junior five gaining a four-point victory over the Seniors, 34-30,
in the most interesting and sensational game played this season. The game started off with both sides on the offensive,
and beautiful systems of passing were in evidence. The Juniors started the scoring when Captain Mauze made a free throw
count for one point. The Seniors passed the ball from beneath their opponents’ goal and worked it down the floor,
Ormand caging the sphere for a field goal. Both sides resorted to a more marked defensive game, this style of
play prevailing until the end of the first half, which ended with the Seniors on the long end of a
14-10 score.

The second frame opened up with a rally by the Juniors, who scored three field goals in the first two
minutes of play. The Seniors quickly reversed things, however, their forwards getting away with four baskets before the Juniors could
check them. The game from this point on seemed to go for the Juniors. Their passing was of a marked
superlative nature and their shots were accurate. They overcame the lead of their opponents and managed to retain it until
the final sound of the whistle, although the Seniors threatened a comeback in the last few moments of play. The
Ormond-Doubles combination at the forward end of the Senior squad was a serious menace to the hopeful Juniors. Time and
time again their systematic floor work and shooting drew applause from the largest audience that has witnessed a game this
season.

Morning Watch Observed Here Daily Last Week
Each morning last week the Davidson students met at 7:40 o’clock for a short prayer service in which every member
took an active part. It is hoped that as a result of these meetings each student will form the habit
of keeping the Morning Watch and that he will dedicate at least five minutes every morning to the silent worship
of God. These services were held as part of a general plan in which the Christian countries all over the
world have set aside the week of November 13th to 20th for the Y. M. C. A. This is a
permanent institution and every year at the appointed time people of all ages, colors, and nationalities will assemble every morning
for a few minutes given over to communion with God. During the week just passed, prayers were offered for three
distinct things. The first of these was for the young men of the world, the second was for the success
of the Disarmament Conference, which is at present meeting in Washington, and the third was for the students of Europe
in the hope that they might draw nearer to God in their work and play.

Senior Speaking to Hold Attention for Week-End
The Senior celebration, to begin on Friday, November 25th, promises to rival the festivities of any previous similar affair. The
program is varied and interesting. It consists of oratory and football, of theatricals and receptions. With the exception of the
speeches themselves, the minstrel is to be the greatest attraction. This promises to be an extravaganza of costumes, stage setting,
and electrical effects, of a type never attempted at Davidson before. In addition to those previously announced as speakers, T.
H. Patterson will speak on “His Bugle Calls,” A. C. Summers on “The Stately Tour,” and E. B. McGukin on
“The Tree Wavings of Life.” This makes a total of 12 speakers. Six will speak on Friday at 8 p.m.,
and six on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. Saturday at 2:30 p.m. the Davidson Scrubs will play the Clemson Scrubs on
Sprunt Field. This should be an exceptionally close and interesting game. Saturday evening at 7:45 the minstrel will present its
program. The Dramatic Club has worked long and hard on this.

Elon Loses to Hurricane Wildcats By 47-0 Score
Red and Black Has Easiest Victory of Season Here on Friday Afternoon.
End runs to the right of them, tackle bucks to the left of them, passes over the top of them,
fumbles behind them, and a stone wall in front of them, briefly describes the plight of Elon’s football team last
Friday. When the referee finally ended the rout, the Wildcats were on the long end of a 47-0 count. Elon
had practically no chance to score and played a defensive game throughout. The Christians threatened only once, late in the
final quarter, when they managed to work the pigskin to Davidson’s eight-yard line, on two long passes. The Red and
Black defense stiffened, however, and Davis blocked Smith's drop kick. Schenck snatched up the ball and carried it 70 yards
up the field out of danger. Before the first quarter was over, the second team was sent into the fray,
and before the game was over many third-string Wildkittens saw action. After the track meet of the first period had
piled up a commanding lead, the Presbyterians practiced field goals during the last period. The one regret of the day
for the team and spectators was that their fighting captain, Doc LaFar, switched from guard to the backfield, failed to
make his touchdown. As every backfield man called upon proved to be a consistent ground gainer, it is impossible to
pick any individual stars. However, the all-round work of Shepherd, who gained 104 yards from scrimmage, and of Schenck, who
had a grand total of 205 yards to his credit, deserve special mention. The line, led by LaFar, Davis, and
Brice, played its usual good game, Elon’s line plays being smothered almost before they started. Clark at left end broke
up many plays and played the best all-round game for the visitors. Perry was the backbone of the backfield and
made practically all their gains.

Line-up:
Davidson (47) Position Elon (0)
Faison S. Perry
LaFar (C) Kirkland
Day White
Black Clark
Schenck Newman
McFadden L. Perry

WHAT'S DOING.
Wednesday—7:00 p.m., Movie, “Experience.”
Thursday—11:00 a.m., Church Services.
Thursday—3:00 p.m., Davidson vs. Furman, Greenville.
Friday—8:00 p.m., Senior Speeches.
9:30 p.m., Movie, “After the Show.”
Saturday—10:30 a.m., Senior Speeches.
Saturday—2:30 p.m., Davidson Wildkittens vs. Clemson Scrubs, Sprunt Field.
8:00 p.m., Minstrel.
10:00 p.m., Senior Reception.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p.m., C. E. Training Class.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service, Pageant by Mitchell girls.
Monday—7:00 p.m., Leaders’ Meeting.
7:15 p.m., Junior Phi Society.
Tuesday—7:00 p.m., Junior Eu. Society.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible classes.
