4 The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

M. RICHARDS........-..-Editor-in-Chief
J.P. PRICE... Forum Editor
A. GAMBLE, JR..-.-.--.Managing Editor
W. Y. CAMPUS Editor
H. H. SMITH-.-.......Asst. Managing Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. F. DAVIDSON. -Assignment Editor
SPRUNT. Social Editor
A. C. ORMOND... Athletic Editor
D. H. OGDE -Literary Editor
A. C. Summers---- Alumni Editor
W. J. COOPER--- Publicity Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN-------- Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BITZER, R., Pres.
GRACY, J. S.
HAVRE, M.
HUES, E.
CALHOUN, M. P.
COX, W. M.
JONES, J. R.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
LACY, T. A.
ELLIOTT, M.
MAHOOD, D. L.
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL... Business Manager
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES... Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
H. K. RUSSELL and C. D. TULLER
S. C. FAIN
C. HENDERSON
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICK

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Back to books and classes once more! No one who watched the old men alight from the trains on the
6th and 7th could have doubted that we are glad to be back at our Alma Mater with college friends
once more.

For the benefit of the new men we would like to say that every man speaks to every other man
on our campus. Don’t forget this, for it is a custom distinctive of Davidson, and of which the college has
always been proud.

The flaming rays of Old Sol have not been able to quench the enthusiasm of the football candidates, and the
fact that there are eighty-five contestants for varsity positions promises well for Davidson’s success on the gridiron this year.

We are glad to see the new faces in our faculty and to welcome these new instructors to our campus.

The Fresh Reception was an unusual success and much credit should be given those who had it in charge, not
forgetting the band which began practice the first day of school in order that it might be able to help
on this occasion.

THE FRESHMAN ISSUE.

It has been the custom for the Y. M. C. A. to entertain the Freshman Class at an opening reception,
and for the new men to receive many other marks of special attention from the higher classes, but for an
entire issue of the college paper to be devoted to the Freshmen is an honor which has never before fallen
to a class of new men. Hence the Class of 1925 may count itself especially favored.

The staff has chosen this method as the best way of expressing its welcome to our younger brothers, for we
are truly glad to have you with us, and would have you realize that fact. You are one of the
largest freshman classes which has ever come to our college, and we are expecting proportionately great things of you. Probably
never before have the new men constituted so large a percentage of the student body and for that reason more
is expected of you. We would have you to learn the meaning of Davidson spirit, that something which though indescribable,
is yet so real a part of our college, and to apply this spirit in your college life. You have
a great task to accomplish if you would fill the places of the men who have been unable to return
this year, but we believe that you will prove capable of this task and that you will soon take your
places in every phase of college life. It is for this reason that the staff wishes to dedicate this issue
of The Davidsonian to the Freshmen. If we seem to make fun of you in its pages, we know that
you will take no offense, for it is all written as an expression of our friendship for you—a friendship which
we hope you will soon learn to return.

OUR ADVERTISERS.

This issue marks a new step for The Davidsonian. It has long been the custom for the Y. M. C.
A. to entertain the Freshman Class at an opening reception, and for the new men to receive many other marks
of special attention from the higher classes, but for an entire issue of the college paper to be devoted to
the Freshmen is an honor which has never before fallen to a class of new men. Hence the Class of
1925 may count itself especially favored.

In common with most other publications of its kind, The Davidsonian is largely dependent upon advertisements for its income. It
is the men who advertise in its columns, then, who really make the paper a possibility and the student body
is in a real sense indebted to them. It is of this indebtedness that we would speak. No matter how
ardent a supporter of Davidson a man may be, he cannot reasonably be expected to continually advertise in a paper
which can bring no results. However, if we can show him that his advertising really pays, it will be no
trouble to retain his advertisement. We believe that advertising in The Davidsonian does pay and we are calling on the
student body to help us prove this fact. Here is a sure yet simple way of showing your college spirit
and supporting your college paper. Notice the advertisements in the columns of The Davidsonian and patronize its advertisers. When in
Charlotte do not go to the store, restaurant, or hotel which refuses to advertise in your paper, but to the
man who does. By letting it be known that you are a Davidson man and that you come in response
to space taken in The Davidsonian, you can prove that his advertisement was worth the money and make it easy
for the business manager to do his work. We believe that every member of the student body will support us
in this matter, and that you will take this method of showing your loyalty to your school and paper.

To say that one thing, one place, or one event was the most interesting of all things, places or events
in a city like Charlotte, would take in a lot of territory, but perhaps it can truthfully be said that
the most interesting event of a recent visit to Charlotte was a trip through Ed Mellon’s, which is the largest
men’s clothing establishment in the Carolinas.

On the first floor we were struck, at first entrance, with the large sanitary glass cases about eight feet wide,
twelve feet long and six feet high. There are sixteen of these, eight of which are filled with youngmen’s clothing,
suits of all styles, all patterns and for all occasions; overcoats, all prices and patterns, cut backs, sway backs, straight
backs, and no backs, light weight, heavy weight, medium weight, no weight. Honestly, fellows, it almost causes one’s head to
swim just to look them over. Next in line are hats, all colors, all styles and weights; hats good, hats
bad, and hats indifferent. If you want a hat for any occasion, you can get it there. If you don’t
want a hat, get a cap; you can find it there also.

Right along with the hats come the shoes. You see, fellows, Ed. Mellon figures to start at the foot and
work up, giving you first a pair of shoes, any of the old and reliable brands, then walk you a
little further toward the door and sell you a suit of clothes, then as you pass out, tops you off
with a good hat. These are a few of the things seen on just one side of the first floor.
On the other side you find silk shirts, cotton shirts, dress shirts, loud shirts, soft shirts, any good brand and
almost any price shirt; cravats red and cravats black, cravats red and black, white, blue, green and purple; ties for
all occasions, some broad, some narrow, some woven, some knitted. Space doesn’t permit us to enumerate anything else on the
first floor nor to deal specifically with the second floor, which is the Ladies’ Department, except to say that the
Ladies’ Department has fur coats that range from $5 to $950, and that the third floor, which is the Leather
Goods Department, has trunks of all styles and sizes, and suitcases and handbags of all descriptions. You will find Mellon’s
Store on West Trade Street, near Tryon. If you wish a fair sample of Charlotte on your first visit, don’t
fail to take in Mellon’s. You haven’t seen Charlotte until you have gone through Mellon’s. (Continued next week)

—D

WITH DAVIDSON FACULTY DURING THE PAST SUMMER

During the summer months which have just passed, the professors as well as the students of Davidson have traveled far
and wide. President W. J. Martin and his family spent most of the summer in that beautiful section of the
North Carolina mountains around Montreat. Dr. Arbuckle with his family spent the summer on his farm in Greenbriar County, W.
Va. Report has it that in the Greenbriar Valley Fair, held this summer, his entries took every first prize awarded
sheep; and also the first prizes on white corn, alfalfa, and Wyandotte chickens. Greenbriar is one of the most fertile
and best cultivated valleys in West Virginia, and Dr. Arbuckle is to be congratulated on his success.

Professor Wood spent the summer near Lewisburg, W. Va., with Mr. and Mrs. Price, the parents of Mrs. Wood. Dr.
C. M. Richards remained at Davidson until the month of August, and during that month was with his family, who
spent the whole summer at Montreat, N. C. Drs. J. L. and J. M. Douglas, Dr. Harding, Dr. Grey, Dr.
Sentelle, and Professor Currie all spent the larger part of the summer months at home in Davidson, taking several motor
trips to the mountains and other parts of this state. Prof. E. J. Erwin and his family were in Morganton,
N. C., which was formerly Professor Erwin’s home. Drs. Shewmake and Lingle taught in the summer school session of the
University of Virginia. Mr. F. L. Jackson, with his family, spent part of the summer at Montreat, N. C. Mr.
O. J. Thies spent the summer at his home in Charlotte, N. C. Major Hearn was at Camp Knox, Kentucky,
during the entire period of the R. O. T. C. camp. Dr. J. M. McConnell spent the summer months at
Camp Sapphire, near Brevard, N. C., where he is one of the assistant directors of the camp. Dr. J. W.
McConnell remained in Davidson, carrying on his work through practically all of the summer months. Miss Shaw, the librarian, had
an enjoyable trip to Europe.

“What is it that keeps the moon in place and prevents it from falling?” asked Jim. “I suppose it’s the
beams,” replied his brother.—Boy’s Life.

How Do Hot Things Cool?

The blacksmith draws a white-hot bar from the forge. It begins at once to cool. How does it lose its
heat? Some is radiated, as heat is radiated by the sun; but some is carried away by the surrounding air.
Now suppose the bar to be only one-half the diameter; in that case it loses heat only half as fast.
Smaller bars lose in proportion. It would seem that this proportion should hold, however much the scale is reduced. But
does it? Does a fine glowing wire lose heat in proportion to its diminished size?

The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company began a purely scientific investigation to ascertain just how fast a glowing
wire loses heat. It was found that for small bodies the old simple law did not hold at all. A
hot wire .010 in. diameter dissipates heat only about 12 percent more rapidly than a wire .005 in. diameter instead
of twice as fast as might be expected. The new fact does not appear very important, yet it helped bring
about a revolution in lighting. It had been found that a heated filament in a vacuum evaporated like water and
that this evaporation could be retarded by introducing an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon. But it had long
been known that the presence of gas in the ordinary incandescent lamp caused so much heat to be carried from
the filament that the lamp was made useless. The new understanding of the laws of heat from wires, however, pointed
out a way of avoiding the supposed necessity of a vacuum. By forming the fine tungsten filament into a helix
the heat loss was made much less prominent. The light radiated is then about the same as if the wire
were stretched out, but the heat loss through the gas is very much less. So the tightly coiled filament was
put into the gas-filled bulb—and a new lamp was created. At the same cost it gave more and better light.
Thus pure research, conducted primarily to find out how hot things cool, led to the invention of the gas-filled lamp
of today—the cheapest, most efficient illuminant thus far produced.

Sooner or later research in pure science enriches the world with discoveries that can be practically applied. For this reason
the Research Laboratories devote much time to the study of purely scientific problems.

General Electric Company
General Office
Schenectady, N. Y.
