THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 28, 1921.

Speaking of Sports.

We would venture to say that the basketball quint from the Tobacco City, where they roll their own, is a
snappy aggregation. The teamwork of this so-called Durham “Y” was superb.

That there was no — to this Durham five, is clearly shown by the fact that they trimmed the Charlotte
“Y” 28 to 24. What is remarkable, is that they carry only five players.

With Our Virginia Rivals.

The past week's results from the Old Dominion are quite interesting.
Un. of Va., 44; Un. of S. C., 9.
Un. of Va., 33; Richmond, 15.

Looks as if the Orange and Blue have gotten to a good start from the above scores.

Un. of Va., 33; Richmond, 15.
Elk’s Club, 39; Richmond, 23.
Wash. and Lee, 21; Richmond, 16.

These are the teams whom the Wildcats meet next week while in Virginia. Relatively speaking, it would seem that the
University is 5 points better than the Elk’s Club, and 13 superior to Wash. and Lee. If that is the
case, meet our hardest enemy first, and the going becomes easier as we travel.

And now to get closer home—

Last week in comparing the showing of three of the mid-state colleges against the University of S. C. we found
them as follows:
Trinity, 30; U. S. C., 12.
U. N. C., 34; U. S. C., 15.
N. C. State, 25; U. S. C., 24.

This would rate Trinity 9 points above U. N. C. and 27 points above N. C. State.

During the last week Elon met Trinity, U. N. C. and Wake Forest with the following results:
Trinity, 59; Elon, 12.
U. N. C., 37; Elon, 12.
Wake Forest, 16; Elon, 15.

The results of N. C. State’s trip will be looked forward to with much interest. It will be noticed that
the University of N. C. is just one day ahead of the Wildcats on the Virginia invasion.

The Red and Black quint leaves here Tuesday. Go get ‘em Wildcats.

Thus it appears that Trinity is well out in front for collegiate honors, with the University running a fair second.
N. C. State, Wake Forest and Elon are closely bunched and are lagging badly in rear of the University.

At this writing, Guilford has not been heard from, and her relative position is as yet a Dark Horse.

Our only chance of comparison at all so far is in the fact that Durham beat Wake Forest 34 to
17, and trimmed us 41 to 16.

Schedule for the Next Few Days:
Trinity met the University yesterday.
Thursday, 27th—N. C. State vs. Guilford at Guilford.
Friday, 28th—N. C. State vs. Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte.
Friday, 28th—Guilford vs. Davidson at Davidson.
Saturday, 29th—Wake Forest vs. University (pending).
Saturday, 29th—N. C. State vs. Davidson at Davidson.
Tuesday, 1st—U. N. C. vs. U. of Va. at Charlottesville.
Wednesday, 2nd—U. N. C. vs. W. and L. at Lexington.
Wednesday, 2nd—Davidson vs. U. of Va. at Charlottesville.
Thursday, 3rd—U. N. C. vs. V. M. I. at Lexington.
Thursday, 3rd—Davidson vs. Elk’s Club at Lynchburg.

—400 for the Famine Sufferers—

The girls’ basketball team of the Winston-Salem High were visitors on the hill last Sunday.

Athletic News

JUNIORS WALLOP SOPHS.
(Continued from page 1)

resistance. Then at the beginning of the fourth session an attempt by Lewis to kick from behind their goal line
was blocked by McLeod, and three Juniors frantically pursued the bouncing ball back to the fence where it was finally
captured for another touchdown. Luke again registered a goal. Once more during the game the Juniors recovered a fumble and
took the ball over only to lose it on a fumble after the line was crossed. For the victors, the
work of Erwin and Moore at the halves and Dick at quarter featured, while “Big” Knight in the line made
gaps for them time after time. The whole team played good ball, as did the Sophomores, who were handicapped by
lack of experience. Tucker was their sensation and did some good work. He was a much bloodier Soph when he
came out than at the beginning. Sorrels was the mainstay in the line and Wiley played a good game in
the backfield. The following is the line-up:

Juniors. Position. Sophs.
Phillips .......... RE .......... Covington
Knight .......... RT .......... Sorrells
Summers ........ RG .......... Baldwin
McLaughlin ...... C .......... Adams
McLeod .......... LG .......... Allen
Miller ............ LT .......... Gibson
Black ............ LE .......... Grey
Dick ............. QB .......... Richards
Erwin ............ RH .......... Wiley
Moore ........... LH .......... Tucker
Roddey .......... FB .......... Lewis

Substitutions — Juniors: Sprunt for Phillips; Lowry for Knight; Dunlap for Black; Story for Moore; Bitzer for Summers. Sophomores: Mauze
for Gibson; Roberts for McLaurin; Richards for Roberts; McLaurin for Richards.

Referee: Douglas; umpire: Coach Grey; head linesman: Brady; time of quarters: ten minutes.

—000 for the Famine Sufferers—

MARKED SUCCESS.
(Continued from page 1)

that man has ever, perhaps, suffered. It is impossible, the speaker concluded, to really love anyone without doing something for
him. Jesus is certainly deserving of our love, and more, He has real need of our service. As the old
violin maker said, “God could not make Antonio Stradivari’s violins without Antonio,” and so God cannot accomplish His work here
in the world without us. Ought we not to serve Him?

Friday Night.

The emptiness of the life of one who tries to be spectacular, and the real joy from service, humble though
it may at first appear, to one’s fellowmen, was the theme of Dr. Thompson's Friday evening address. He told of
his call to the catcher’s position on the baseball team, where he had opportunity to hold the team together, though
he could have made a more spectacular player at shortstop. Christ could have been a petty prince, but chose service
to mankind instead. His three years of service, his three useful years, have been worth more than all the philosophers
in all history. The speaker told of various persons in history, and even in our own day, who have served.
Queen Victoria's governess is unknown to the world, though she was great because of her service in teaching the future
queen in her girlhood how to serve and to bear her responsibilities. Gladstone was not a great man because he
was rich or well-educated or handsome or a statesman, but because he served. Abraham Lincoln was poor and ugly but
served his fellows. In a vote of nine million, the French people declared that not the great general, Napoleon, but
Pasteur, the physician and surgeon, was their great man, because of his service to man. He told of kings, queens,Generals
and admirals attending the funeral of an “unknown soldier” because this soldier had served his country and the world. Dr.
Thompson urged the Davidson men to determine that they would serve, not wait for the nation or state or city
to act but determine that each as an individual would serve others. It is not in power, money, or knowledge
that greatness lies, but in serving, and through service true happiness is found.

McLaurin for Sunday Morning.

“A man has one life to spend, one great investment to make. Where and how will it count for most?”
said Dr. Thompson in his address to the local congregation Sunday morning on the subject, “The Christian Ministry as a
Life Calling.” According to Dr. Thompson, the great basic decision is the resolve to serve God, regardless of where the
path of duty may lead or into what field of work. The Christian ministry is the fundamental calling, for it
deals with life, with the human soul, at first hand. We have today gone wild over steam engines, electricity, money—we
have forgotten Life, the soul of all. The minister deals with money, but he does so to transfer it to
true Christian character. Jesus Christ lived here with man not to teach him electricity and money-making, but to show him
the way of Life. The ministry deals with men, not as capitalists, or laborers, or financiers, but face to face,
as man with man. The minister touches life in the deepest possible way; he sees life everywhere, under all conditions;
he is not satisfied merely to meet his fellowman, but yearns to help him onward and upward. Ideals rule here
on earth. Here is life, back of life ideals, back of ideals the ministry. The minister wants to bring men
to Christ, for Christ means power. The minister deals more fundamentally with life than the physician; for when the physician
has despaired of life, has reached the end of his row, the minister alone can aid, comfort, and offer real
strength. The minister deals more fundamentally with life than the lawyer, for the law too has its limits. The ministry
affects life more fundamentally than any calling, for while others affect the body of man, Christianity saves his soul, that
part of him that never dies.

The Christian ministry is not an enriching profession; the minister must be a student, not only in one line of
thought, but in many; he must be an efficient teacher; he must be a preacher; he is developed socially, for
truly, the nobler the basis of our social relations, the deeper the resulting friendship will be; he must grow spiritually,
for the minister must be closer to God than his people if he is to guide them to the higher
life. The ministry is not an enriching profession financially, but it is sufficient; God has promised to care for those
that serve Him. The ministry is calling for strong men today; men with the will and ability to “carry on;”
the world is waking up! To what shall it awake? Why should you not serve God in some way? Think
it over seriously and prayerfully before making your final decision.

Sunday Night.

The three great questions which are to be decided by college men, first, Shall I accept Christ as my personal
Saviour? second, What shall be my life work? third, Who shall be my life partner? were clearly and forcefully discussed
by Dr. Thompson at the closing service of the Life Work Campaign. Since these choices are so all-important no man
can afford to drift into either of them, but the questions should be thought out carefully along the following lines:
(1) What are my gifts? (2) What are the needs of the world? Are you talented as a farmer? Very
good. But where will you farm? Many people are in want, and others are starving today because of ignorance of
the fundamental principles of agriculture. Would you go into business? China is sadly in need of capable Christian business men
to help her organize and adjust herself. Almost limitless water power is going to waste today in South America because
her people do not know even the simplest mechanical constructions. What an opportunity for engineers! Teachers and physicians are needed
all over the world, but the supply is very limited. Many of the towns in the United States are overrun
with doctors, whereas in some of the foreign countries 90 percent of the people die without medical attendance. Consult with
your friends about your talents and your life work; then ask God—He knows and will lead aright.

In addition to the public services conducted during the campaign, one hundred and one personal interviews were held with the
various students, and the benefits resulting from these can hardly be measured. Mr. Edward E. Lane, Life Work Secretary for
the Southern Pres- (Continued on page 4)

CAMP SAPPHIRE
Brevard, N. C.
A Summer Camp For Boys
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six
boys. Give your boy a chance! Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill, N.C.
J. M. MCCONNELL, Associate Director Davidson, N.C.
Director
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real Success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. J. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes,
Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music
and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3628
Charlotte, N. C.
