THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 318%
221 W. Trade St.
Established 1978

A. B. Feiting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
218 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

This is what might be called bacon weather—streak of lean and streak of fat. Have you noticed how the dying
calf expression makes a hit with the ladies? Ask Alex Mitchell.

The lucky ones: “You tell ‘em boil, I'm blistered.” First Come—First Shot. If we ever have occasion to change our
name we will make it something starting with a double Z. This thing of front row and all questions “strains
at the leash which holds our nanny.”

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service,

“I'm in a tight place,” sighed the sardine as the lid was being soldered on.

Lost. A fountain pen—I use it to write with. Finder please return to Franklin Fricker.

Ray—Action.
Oh chemist of skill, investigate!
Answer this quiz of mine.
I think I know what Carbonate,
But where did Iodine?

Brady is the man to do it.

Gone, but not forgotten—this month's check.

STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“This is a hod job,” said the laborer as he started up the ladder with a load of bricks.

This is a Fact! Our illustrious “Jap” has been approached by a publishing company with reference to having a selection
of his poems printed in book form. Send in your orders to 2 Ga.

Aw Shucks!
Mabel—“Don’t squeeze so hard, Jack!”
Jack—“Why, dear?”
Mabel—“Cause—you might hurt the poor kitty, and I hate to hear it holler.”

“I'm all out of wind,” groaned the flat tire as the car went over a bump.

Parson Sekay Brown Blossoms Forth.
Advocating the wearing of stove-pipe hats, standing collars and swallow-tailed coats, and the carrying of canes, as an exclusive Senior
privilege, Sekay Brown launches his campaign with a full-dress parade. Mustaches are also in order—even if you have to purchase
them. The parade down Main street was led by Parson Sekay. Sekay also brought up the rear. Two horses ran
away and a Ford went dead as the parade was seen approaching, but notwithstanding this the demonstration was highly successful.
Two men are known to have taken the pledge and Parson Sekay has received congratulations from “Pussyfoot.” Seniors, join the
club! It’s doing a great work.

“I'm financially embarrassed,” sighed the penny as it fell into the till of gold pieces.

You Tell ‘Em!
Oh, for the nerve to utter
The thoughts that arise in me.
We passed a man on the street the other day, and after we had gotten out of what he supposed
to be hearing distance, he said to his comrade, “The Peanut Parcher is getting d— ——!” We didn’t get that
last word and so don’t know whether to thank him or to drop a brick on his head next time
we get a chance. Maybe we had better drop the brick.

Revised.
Count that day lost,

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Double Guarantee, Free Exchange and Liberal Selling Plans
Write for a Catalogue, Prices and Terms

“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Stieff Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St.Charlotte, N.C. | Whose low descending sun Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va. | Sees
no prof shot, Or act of study done. It shot past the limousine.

A Doubtful Compliment.
“The further I'm away from Davidson the better I like it,” said a prominent alumnus who has been with us
during the last week.

Get Us Some Dream Drops.
Murdock McLeod says he dreamed the other night that Davidson had 50 of the swellest kind of co-eds and that
all of them would flirt with you. That’s not a dream—that’s ambition!

“I’m up a tree,” said the leaf as it shimmied in the morning breeze.

We wonder what Kennith McCutchen is going to do with that big box of candy he has stored away in
his trunk. If he can’t get to a refrigerator he could at least chill it by packing some of those
letters around it.

By Thanx.
We wish the gentleman who removed a package from P. O. Box 58 would leave a note telling what was
in it and how he liked it.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get
into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers. If you own auto or team or
can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52 years
in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department
C, Winona, Minnesota.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
CORNELIUS, N. C.
Phone 25-W

WANTED
PIANO PUPILS
ELIZABETH PROCTOR

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

“What’s in a name?” jibed the Ford as we find our curiosity stretched to the busting point.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 28, 1922.

For Nearly a Century
Columbia Theological Seminary has been training for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of men from South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at
present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling,
President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

SWEATERS—
Make weather like this seem like a balmy springtime. They are comfortable and attractive, and they cost less money than
an Overcoat.
Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

OUR NEW HOME
DESIGNED and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet
of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte
we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems
that may confront you.
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Jan. 27th, 28th and 29th
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
CLARK AND BEAHAN
In a Versatile Novelty, “THE PIANEERS”
THE THREE BATEMAN SISTERS
Two Musicians and a Dancer
CHESTER SPENCER and LOLA WILLIAMS
In “Putting it Over”
JENNINGS AND MACK
In “The Camouflage Taxi”
SHERWIN KELLY
In a Novelty Surprise
