THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Dr. W. R. Withers, '83, professor of chemistry at State College, is president of the department of higher education of
the State Teachers’ Assembly. He is also a member of the legislative committee of that body.

Dr. Wm. A. Price, ‘09, is in Mexico doing geological work for a South American Corporation. He is so far
in the interior that mail is received only by special messenger.

The friends of Rev. Don. W. Richardson, ‘01, of China, will sympathize with him in the death of his only
son. The little boy suffered a slight accident while riding a bicycle; blood poisoning developed three weeks later.

W. H. Harrell, '20, attended the Student Volunteer Conference at Durham. He is now teaching school in Chincapin, N.C.

F. L. Knight, ex-’19, was elected vice-president of the Student Volunteer Union of Virginia for the next year. The conference
this year was held at Salem, Virginia, on February 18th-20th inclusive. O. C. Williamson, ‘18, is the retiring vice-president. Knight
is now taking his medical work at the University of Virginia and his local volunteer band has extended the invitation
to the union to meet at the university next year.

L. H. Patterson, ex-'18, is now working for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. He travels for this banking institution
and has his headquarters in the Capital City.

F. E. Fowlkes, ex-'18, is now head of the science department of the John Marshall High School in Richmond, which
is one of the largest in the south. He has prepared laboratory manuals for the use of his classes. In
addition to this, he has been highly honored by members of his profession in that he is vice-president of the
State Science Department, whose aim is the betterment and spread of the teaching of science in the high schools and
colleges throughout the state of Virginia. Dr. Loving, of Richmond University, is president. Also, Fowlkes is president of the Secondary
Teachers Association—the membership of which is composed of all the high school teachers of the city.

ORATORY OF NON-SOCIETY MEN CONGRESSIONAL IN ELOQUENCE.

What’s that? Oh, no, they haven't turned Shearer chapel into Congressional Hall—that is only some of those poor Juniors getting
over their agony. And many and varied were the ways in which they got over it.

Knox orated so strongly on the importance of the “motor truck” that everyone present decided to buy one and go
into Cornelson’s “Diversified Agriculture,” in Dogget’s “Model Town,” way back in the “Hidden Territory” of Tufts, where Wright's “Negro Problem”
didn’t figure on account of Wyman’s “Purification of Water.” About this time, however, everyone found out that Johnston’s “Education” applied
to the “Mountaineer,” of Grove’s would give them Holmes’ “Caste,” and thus enable them to establish a “Jeffersonian Democracy” as
advocated by La Far—bringing about a greater “Immigration” than that told of by Bethea for Bailey’s “Business Possibilities for 1921"
sure looked good.

Horton then answered Double’s “Why?” by saying that the “Modern Dance” caused us to “Prepare for the Crisis” mentioned by
Clyburn in order that we might not be Booth’s “People without a nation.” John Curry was sorry he asked “What
Next?” for no sooner had he finished than Sam Story jumped up and yelled “The Baseball Scandal,” and proceeded to
denounce it in such fiery eloquence that the entire audience (5 people), decided that they would never again match each
other for the nickel to put in church for fear that Sam would catch them and make their sin his
subject for another flow of silver-tongued oratory.

George N. Neal spent the week-end at Steele Creek with his parents.

Alumni News times too feeble to engage in regular work. In 1880 he married Miss Mary E. Craig, of Selma,
Ala. FromThis union came six children who have rendered useful service throughout that state. In his social relations, he was
genial and companionable, entering with hearty sympathy into the joys and sorrows of others and ready to greet with a
bright smile and kindly word everyone he met. As a preacher, he was clear, logical, forcible, and earnest.

REV. R. B. McALPINE, '70, DIES AT AGE OF 73 YEARS

The Christian Observer recently announced the death of Rev. R. B. McAlpine, '70, who was born in Coosa County, Ala.
on January 25, 1848. In his early years, his parents moved to Arkansas, where he received his early training. At
the age of 17, he entered Davidson College for the purpose of studying law. While he was at Davidson, however,
he began to feel it his duty to enter the ministry, so after completing his course here, he went to
Columbia Seminary. He remained there from 1871 to 1873. After his seminary work, he took special courses at the University
of Virginia and Princeton Seminary.

Rev. McAlpine was ordained in Alabama in 1877 and held the pastorate at Uniontown and Dayton until 1879. He then
accepted a call to Goldsboro, N. C., where he remained for three years, going from there to Columbus, Miss., where
he preached for five years. While he was there, the church membership was doubled and a handsome new building erected.
He went from Mississippi to Alabama, where he held a position in a Tuscaloosa institution, training negro men to preach
the Gospel. At this time, his health gave way and he was forced to take a long rest. He was
in declining health for a number of years.

VISITORS ON THE HILL

Mrs. Robert N. Page, of Southern Pines, made a short visit to the Misses Shaw a few days ago.

Miss Lucy Bacon of Boston has been visiting Mrs. Martin since Monday.

Rev. S. M. Erickson, of Tokamatsu, Japan, spent a few days with Rev. J. W. Moore last week.

Messrs. Frank, Dave, and Walter Hall were on the hill for a few hours Friday night.

George Crouch, '18, was a visitor on the hill the past week.

Randolph Scott and Vaughn Hawkins of Charlotte were on the hill for the game Friday night.

Miss Whitely of Greensboro was a visitor last Saturday night.

Misses Victor, Cuthberson, Anderson, and Carrie Spring, of Charlotte, were here to see the game last Friday.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Check up all that Camels offer you! Any one of Camels' many points of absolute superiority makes them a delight
to the most fastidious cigarette smoker! But, consider all that Camels pass you:— Unequalled quality—the wonderful Camel blend of choice
Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos—a flavor as distinctive and refreshing as it is appetizing—smooth mellow mildness never before attained in
a cigarette—freedom from any unpleasant cigaretty odor! And, when you compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at any
price, you will note that Camels never tire your taste, no matter how liberally you smoke!

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse

Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., Troy, N.Y.
Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
