THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

Ga. Tech repeated last year’s performance by taking the long end of a 42-0 game from the Old North State Baptists. We're willing to bet, or wager, they won’t repeat last year’s score at the Wildcat’s expense.

—P. C. Tomorrow—

Our Turkey Day opponents, Furman, got a running start by trimming the Seceders 42-7. In the last three years they have rolled up a total of 126 points against Erskine’s seven.

—Wildcats—

Wake Forest is without their line plunging and pill booting wonder, Rabenhorst. Heckman, their star end of last year, has been shifted to the pilot’s position in the backfield.

—Wildcats—

“Runt” Faucette, of State, seems to have fully recovered from a broken ankle sustained during baseball season, for in the game against Randolph-Macon he went in in the last two minutes and scored a touchdown.

—Wildcats—

The Flying Squadron from V. M. I. has lost some of its wings. The best they could do last Saturday was a 13-0 score over Roanoke.

—P. C. vs. D.C.—

Carolina and Wake Forest mix on Saturday. Coach Bill Fetzer’s pigskin handlers have always been among the best in the South and Saturday’s game will give football fans a line on his eleven. We're for you Coach Bill except on November 12th.

—Pep Tomorrow—

P. C. has had all the breaks of the game for the last two years. Against them tomorrow will be the old Wildcat fighting spirit plus a year’s pang for revenge. Lookout Blue Stockings.

—Revenge Is Sweet—

Class basketball starts inside of two weeks. Get out and work for your class for the series promises to be close.

—Wildcats—

The fall tennis tournament is to be run off in the near future. The courts have been put in shape and prospects are bright for a winning team this year.

—Wildcats—

Following are the games to be played on October 1st:
Ga. Tech vs. Oglethorpe, at Atlanta.
Centre vs. Clemson, at Danville.
S. C. vs. Erskine, at Columbia.
Va. vs. George Washington.
W. and L. vs. Randolph Macon.
Furman vs. Newberry.
V. M. I. vs. Hampden-Sidney.

D. VA. DEFEATS WILDCATS

(Continued from page 1)

The Davidson backs frequently tore through the heavy Virginia line for long gains. Bethea and Moore were especially adept in this smashing style of play. In spite of their defeat, the Red and Black colors were never lowered, and their clean, plucky spirit coupled with a Wildcat’s fight and gameness made a marked impression on the spectators.

Virginia. Position. Davidson.
Davis__________ Faison
Shackelford____ Davis
Fenwick________ LaFar (C)
Hankins________ Brice
Hall____________ Hunter
Clark___________ Clarke
Michie__________ Schenck
Witt____________ Moore
Rinehart________ Bethea
Oppelman_______ Sheppard
Maphis__________ Long

Score by quarters: Totals.
Davidson________ 0 0 0 0
Virginia_________ 7 7 0 14—28

Summary: Touchdowns — Virginia, Rinehart, Foster, Harris, Stephenson. Goals from touchdown—Hall (3), Harris (1). Substitutes: For Virginia—Dietrick for Michie; Foster for Witt; Hubbard for Oppleman; Michie for Dietrick; Oppleman for Hubbard; Blackford for Clark; Ward for Fenwick; Hubbard for Oppleman; Harris for Maphis; Robertson for Hankins; Campbell for Michie; Zundel for Davis; Winston for Shackelford; Carrington for Foster; Roney for Blackford; Luke for Hall; Hennessey for Ward; Stephenson for Zundel; Dunn for Harris; Weaver for Winston. Davidson—Fields for Brice; Homer for Hunter; McAllister for Sheppard; Allen for Homer; Sorrells for LaFar. Referee—Gooch (Virginia). Umpire—Harrison (Washington and Lee). Head Linesman—Heywood (South Carolina). Time of quarters—12 and 10 minutes.

D. PROSPECTS BRIGHT FOR WIN OVER BLUESTOCKINGS

With such a slogan as “Revenge is Sweet,” the Wildcats will enter the game tomorrow with a do-or-die spirit and a determination to keep the Blue Stockings from spilling the dope for the third successive year. The team is far from being disheartened by their defeat at the hands of Virginia for the Old Dominion is recognized to have an eleven that will carve a name for itself in the annals of Southern football. Since Saturday, Coach Grey has had several days of practice in which to work on the weak points of the team and the Red and Black machine should have every cog in working order when it trots on the field to meet the Presbyterians from Clinton. In addition, the team gained a wealth of experience from the game Saturday while the Blue-stockings will make their debut with the game on Sprunt Field tomorrow.

Down at Clinton, prospects are far from dazzling. Coach Johnson has but five of last year’s veterans again in harness—three in the line and two in the backfield—in opposition to our seven letter men. Since the first call for candidates, however, he has been hard at work stopping up the more or less serious gaps in his eleven, and the South Carolinians will arrive on the Hill inspired by their success of the past two years and with hopes of turning the trick again. Go get ’em, Wildcats, we’re all behind you.

D. SOPHS DEFEAT FRESHIES IN ANNUAL BASEBALL GAME

The Sophomores defeated the Freshmen in their annual baseball game Saturday afternoon to the merry tune of 6 to 2. A large crowd of fans turned out to see the classic game of the year and were furnished with an excellent exhibition of the national pastime. The game, as usual, was hotly contested, but the superior intellectual powers of the “Terrible Sophs” proved the winning factor. The “bugs” in the stands received plenty of thrills throughout the contest by the spectacular fielding and heavy hitting of both clubs.

The Soph stands went wild as Boushee, their star southpaw, climbed the mound. His fast one looked good, and all seemed rosy for a victory, as the first two Fresh up were easy, but the upper classmen had not heard of the fame of “Babe” Maxwell, and as the Wilmington lad grooved a fast one this young Fresh leaned on it for the circuit. “Boush” tightened up at this point and by the aid of pretty fielding held the Fresh helpless until the ninth when they pushed over their other tally. Pinch Hitter Matthews got life in an outfielder’s error, and scored when Goode knocked one for a country mile. Keels, the lanky catcher, caught two men at the plate in this inning.

“Red” McPherson held the Sophs in check until the lucky seventh when they pushed over five tallies. Fenton started the fireworks by knocking the ball to the race track which was good for all four sacks and four more if he had wanted them. Keels then scored Hersey and Boushee who had singled, with a screaming triple to right. Hixon, the S. C. wonder, singled, stole second and scored on Curdts' hit to center. This ended the Soph’s scoring in this period, but they tallied in the next frame when Babe Hersey smashed a fast one to left scoring Smith who had singled. Hersey, Overton and Curdts were the fielding wonders of the Sophs, while Pleasants and Mallory looked good in the field for the Fresh. Keels and Morrison both caught good games.

D. N. W. Shepherd, ex-’23, has returned to Davidson for a short visit. He has been pitching for the Little Rock club of the Southern League during the past summer.

SUCCESSFUL CHAUTAUQUA

(Continued from page 1)

The ever-increasing communication and transportation of the United States binds the people into a single social body and makes them inter-dependent. A spirit of “each for all and all for each” is the only one which can give harmony of life, Dr. Gilver told his audience.

Miss Fitzpatrick, “the Kentucky song bird,” gave a number of popular as well as classic selections, the best of which was “I Love You.” Mr. Plumstead and Moomaw were decidedly the most gifted performers on the program. The impersonations of a country choir singer, a broken-down actor, and a mischievous youngster, by Mr. Plumstead, and a series of highly applauded accordion numbers by Mr. Moomaw proved to be the feature acts of the evening.

Wednesday Afternoon

The Wednesday afternoon program of the Radcliffe Chautauqua presented the vocalist, Ness Shepherd, the “American’s All” detachment from Camp Dix, and the lecturer, Dr. Culp. Miss Shepherd sang with rather pleasing effect several selections, the most.Interesting of which were “It’s Just Her Way,” and “A Revised Edition of ‘Old Uncle Ned.’” The “Americans All” detachment, under the command of Lieutenant Kelly, furnished the most enjoyable feature of the program. As Lieutenant Kelly announced, these men were just ordinary soldier-pupils from the government school for illiterates at Camp Dix. The detachment of eight, including four foreign-born Americans, executed various drills and combinations with unparalleled quickness and dispatch. They engaged in group singing and one rendered several solos in a pleasing manner. Several also made speeches, giving their life history. It was an impressive moment, that, when a big Finn told of how he had come to this country a penniless, ignorant immigrant, and how the army had transformed him into a real American.

The lecture of Dr. Culp, entitled “Putting the Community Program Into Effect,” dealt with a subject which is vital to our nation today. He represented in a new and forceful manner the old ideals of co-operation and teamwork, without which, he said, no community or group could execute its greatest possibilities.

Wednesday Night.

The closing night of the Chautauqua was by far the most entertaining as well as the most instructive of the performances presented by the Radcliffe Chautauqua during their three-day visit in Davidson.

Dr. Culp, of Cleveland, O., sounded the keynote of the evening in an appealing and inspiring lecture on “America’s Industrial Ideal.” Dr. Culp very effectively compared the America of bygone days when “service” was the motto of manufacture to the America of today where greed and self have set in and service is lost in the mad rush after gain. America’s industrial ideal is service and every American must strive to bring this goal nearer for with the ends of the world looking to her today she must not fail but must see that this ideal materializes.

Miss Shepherd, at the piano, presented several very clever and amusing numbers which met with protracted applause.

The feature of the evening was the demonstration staged by eight doughboys under the leadership of Lieutenant Kelly. These soldiers were from the Army Educational Center for illiterate soldiers and beneath the surface of their entertainment was a vein of seriousness showing the value of this feature of the service to the uneducated soldier. Major Hearn’s army was put to scorn by their snappy drills and the speed with which they donned their blouses excited even the admiration of Mr. Ryan. They brought a most delightful evening to a successful close with many jokes and songs, most of which our ex-service men recognized as originating overseas.

Guarantors for Next Year.

It is now certain that the Radcliffe Chautauqua, which was so thoroughly enjoyed during the past week, will be back next year. A contract has been signed by 20 prominent men of the community which guarantees the Chautauqua management a specified sum to return next year. The following men signed the contract: H.B. Arbuckle, W. H. Thompson, S. J. Christenbury, C. H. Hamilton, C. M. Stiles, C. V. Potts, M. H. Goodrum, T. E. Lothery, A. R. Proctor, J. S. Stuart, J. R. Caldwell, J. F. Carter, T. M. Griffith, H. G. Torrence, J. J. Withers, J. W. MacConnell, J. M. Douglas, C. D. Reynolds, C. E. Fidle, H. B. Elliott.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI SOCIETY DEBATE ON VALUES OF AERIAL DEFENSE

The meeting of the Phi Society last Thursday night was both lively and interesting, for each man on the program seemed intent on doing his full part to make the meeting a success. The critic announced the subject for debate as: “Resolved, that the Air Service should supplant the Navy in the Nation’s first line of defense.” Under the leadership of J. W. Baldwin the affirmative showed by the results of recent experiments and the opinions of experts that the Air Service could supplant the Navy, and that the latter is a tremendous financial burden. The negative pointed out the fact that our first line of defense is not restricted to our coastline, and that the Air Service could never be more than supplementary to the Navy. The decision was rendered unanimously for the affirmative.

In the extemporaneous debate Gibson proved that Robinson, his opponent, was wrong, and that tradition and common sense combined to condemn any splitting of the societies. J. R. Jones gave an interesting oration on “The World Disarmament Conference and its meaning.” The society reinstated C. G. Brown, D. P. McGeachy, and R. P. Brown. M. B. Foil was received into the society as a new member. After a rather warm discussion on the advisability of splitting into two societies the meeting adjourned to reconsider this matter next week.

EUMENEANS HAVE JOLLIEST INITIATION IN MANY YEARS

On last Saturday night at 7:30 o’clock the Eumenean Literary Society held its annual initiation of Freshmen into the full membership and privileges of the society. The initiation ceremony was conducted with due pomp and dignity by “Junebug” Price and not one of the Freshmen could complain that he was neglected in the course of the evening. The aspirants to the honor attached to membership in the society made their appearance in the hall with their pants turned wrong-side-out and their shoes tied around their necks, leaving their pedal extremities devoid of any covering, with the exception of those few who boasted of socks. This latter deficiency might be attributed to the self-evident fact that our laundry is functioning along its usual grounds. After the Freshmen were marshalled into the hall that popular ditty, known as “How Green I Am,” was rendered by all. Several ludicrous performances were then pulled off in grand style but one of the most ridiculous was the shredded wheat eating contest. In the strictest sense of the word this was rather erroneously stated as the competitive part of the event was done away with when Jimmy Milhour got into action. Three bites and one swallow sufficed him and his biscuit was no more, the entire operation lasting for the space of about two seconds.

The most entertaining part of the evening’s program was then announced as a debate: “Resolved, That ‘Nunkle’ McIlwaine is better looking than ‘Junebug’ Price.” The affirmative side of this argument was upheld in eloquent style by Fresh Price, while Fresh McIlwaine exerted his powers and influence on behalf of the negative. The judges were unanimous in their decision, which was heartily in favor of the affirmative, much to the confusion and embarrassment of “J. P.” This concluded the lighter part of the program. The new men were then duly sworn in and ice cream and cake were served in abundance, after which the meeting broke up, and thus ended probably the most successful initiation that has ever been conducted in the Eumenean Hall.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS GUESTS OF DR. AND MRS. LINGLE

On last Friday night at the home of Dr. T. W. Lingle Le Cercle Francais held its weekly meeting. The attendance was good and all signs seem to point to a very successful year. No special program was carried out but plans for the coming year were fully discussed. This year’s work promises to be especially helpful to the members. After the business was finished Mrs. Lingle sprung a most pleasant surprise by serving the members delicious refreshments. The meetings hereafter will be held the second Friday of each month and all members are urged to come and help in making this the most successful year that the French circle has ever had.

STATIONERY

A full and complete line of Eaton, Crane and Pike Co’s. Linen Lawn and Highland Linen writing paper

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler Local agent DAVIDSON, N. C.

J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C.

This Space Reserved for Wrigley Chewing Gum Co. 5 W. Fourth St.

Sweaters — For college men: We have them, fellows—some of the nicest and nobbiest models you can find. Our prices on sweaters are low, right in line with our low prices on all sporting goods.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN (Just off Tryon) Phone 3248