THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

WILLIAM F. STEVENSON IS CAPABLE AND HONORED MAN

Honorable William Francis Stevenson, 1885, was born in Loray, Iredell County, North Carolina, on the 23rd of November, 1861. He is the son of William Sydney and Elizabeth (McFarlan) Stevenson. In 1885 he received his A.B. degree from Davidson and went into the study of law. He read law under Gen. W. L. T. Prince and R. T. Caston, of Cheraw, S. C. On November 13, 1888, he married Miss Mary Elizabeth Prince, the daughter of General Prince, his law teacher. In 1887 he was admitted to the South Carolina bar and began practice at Chesterfield. He was general counsel for the State Dispensary Commission and directed the litigation through the Supreme Court of the United States in winding up the South Carolina State Dispensary. He was a member of the Democratic Executive Committee of Chesterfield County from 1888 to 1914, and chairman of it from 1896 to 1902. He has been a member of the Democratic State Executive Committee of South Carolina since 1901. He was mayor of Cheraw from 1895-06. He was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, 1896-1903, and 1910-14. He was speaker of the house from 1901-03. He has represented the fifth district of South Carolina since 1917 in the 65th and 66th Congresses. The degree of LL.D. was conferred upon Mr. Stevenson at the commencement of Davidson College in 1921.

REV. W. W. RATCHFORD WAS MAN HELD IN HIGH ESTEEM

Rev. W. W. Ratchford, ex-1860, the oldest minister in the Synod of South Carolina, died October 26th at his home near Lancaster, in the manse of the Tirzah Church, where he had served as pastor for almost 30 years. He was born in Gaston County, North Carolina, May 28, 1831. He was a graduate of Erskine College and studied theology privately. He was ordained June 2, 1860, by the Presbytery of Yorkville. He served a number of churches in North Carolina, but his longest pastorate was with Tirzah and Waxhaw churches. Although for many years he had been a member of the Presbytery of Bethel, in the Synod of South Carolina, the church of which he had longest been pastor was just over the line in North Carolina. Mr. Ratchford served as chaplain in the Confederate Army, and was perhaps the oldest pastor in active service in the entire Southern Presbyterian Church, and perhaps in any Protestant Church in the United States. Many men of his age continue preaching, but there is no recorded instance of a man 90 years of age who served as regularly installed pastor of a church. He was like a father to the members of his churches and to the people of the community where he lived. The affection of his people for him was a beautiful tribute to the unselfishness of his service.

ALUMNI AT GAME

Of the many alumni who attended the Carolina game last Saturday, the following names were obtained: Locke White, '13; J. D. Watt, '19; Jimmie Stockard, ex-'24; Lorraine Dodson, ex-'22; Jim Madrey, ex-'19; Rip Bernhardt, ex-'23; Frog Casell, ex-'23; A. G. Oltman, '19; S. C. Williams, '05; Jas. K. Foster, ex-'19; G. W. Coan, '11; W. B. Taylor, '08; C. M. Taylor, '08; Arch Taylor, '11; J. P. Taylor, Jr., '20; E. T. McKeithen, '06; J. E. Carter, '15; J. H. Carter, '09; H. A. Caldwell, '14; J. Lee Sloan, '84; W. W. Flowe, '95; Geo. Bitzer, '18; Lump Richardson, '14; Charlie Angle; A. M. Inman, '19; Harry Sample, '19; Z. B. Roberson, '14; E. H. Harrison, '97; Coach R. A. Fetzer, '07; Dr. R. M. King, '00; I. P. Graham, '08; Coit Robinson, '10; Lawrence Wilkinson; M. R. Watt; J. B. Pharr; Bill Pharr; C. K. Brown, '21; John Watson Moore; J. C. Harper; Allison James; W. D. Johnson; R. H. Stone; J. E. McKeithen; Joe Johnston; R. D. Hall; W. M. Hall; J. W. McAlister; Lacy McAlister, '20; W. S. Overton; Fred Anderson; R. G. Garth; W. B. Hodges; R. D. Alexander; D. S. Forgey; J. C. McDonald; Geo. N. Adams; W. S. Alexander, and Bill Miley.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

The pastoral relation between Rev. C. G. Lynch, '12, and St. Paul’s Church, Charlotte, was recently severed at a meeting of the Mecklenburg Presbytery. Mr. Lynch has gone to Wilmore, Ky. Rev. H. G. Bedinger, '11, was elected moderator of the Pee Dee Presbytery at a recent meeting in Dillon, S. C. Jamie Fowle, '18, has been ordained to the ministry of the Gospel. The ordination took place in Washington, N. C., last week. Rev. C. B. Craig has been elected a trustee of Flora Macdonald College. Capt. John Calvin Dye, ex-1906, was a visitor in Davidson last week. Captain Dye has spent the last two years in Hawaii in the government service. During the war Dr. Dye trained at Fort Oglethorpe and was transferred to the aviation section at Garden City. Later he was sent to the Small Arms Training School at Camp Dodge, Iowa. He served on the examining board there and was then transferred to the Base Hospital at Camp Dodge. He was promoted to the rank of captain June, 1919, at Camp Sherman, in Chillicothe, Ohio. Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D.D., 1904, has been called to the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky. This is one of the leading Southern churches and has a wide influence in religious affairs. Rev. Alden S. Anderson, 1913, is the principal of the Westminster School, a school for boys, in Rutherfordton, N. C. W. C. D. Kerr, ex-1915, is teaching French in Columbia University, New York. Rev. E. C. Murray, Jr., 1914, has moved from St. Pauls, N. C., to Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico. Rev. H. R. Overcash, 1893, has moved from Lake City to Leesburg, Fla. Rev. J. G. Patton, Jr., 1916, has moved from Ashland, Va., to Lawrenceville, Ga. J. D. McCloy, ex-1922, is at Poughkeepsie, New York, taking a higher course in accounting. John Watson Moore, 1912, has been recently made an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, N. C. Jimmie Harper, 1915, is working with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., of Winston-Salem. This institution is the oldest and the strongest bank and trust company in North Carolina. Jimmie has a new six-cylinder Packard roadster, the first of its kind in North Carolina.

MARRIAGE NOTICES

Mr. and Mrs. James Douglas Neill request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter, Katherine Douglas, to Mr. Lewis Robert McDuffie, 1913, on Tuesday, the twenty-second of November, at the First Presbyterian Church, Columbus, Ga. Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wilkinson announce the marriage of their daughter, Martha Lois, to Mr. Robert Dawson Hughes, 1916, of Cedar Grove, North Carolina, on Tuesday, October twenty-fifth, at Hillsboro, N. C. Frederick N. Thompson, 1921, married Miss Mildred Walser, of Lexington, North Carolina, on Thursday, November tenth. The wedding was held at the First Presbyterian Church of Lexington, and of the ten men who took part eight were from Davidson. Those who took part were: D. S. Forgey, 1921; A. L. Wilson, 1920; Ira Brinkley, 1920; Woodrow McKay, 1912; J. S. Curry, 1922; R. K. Shaw, 1922, and G. H. Cornelson, 1922.

ARMISTICE DAY (Continued from page 1)

At 12 o'clock the call of a bugle was heard and the entire assembly stood for two minutes of silent prayer for our dead heroes, after which The Star-Spangled Banner was played by the band. The next speaker of the morning was Prof. J. L. Douglas, who spoke of our alumni who have recently crossed “The Great Divide.” Foremost among these was Maj. J. Z. W. F. Harper, of Lenoir, N. C. When the War Between the States broke out, Major Harper enlisted as a private, but owing to his efficiency and gallant conduct he soon rose to the rank of major. After the war he settled in Lenoir and became one of her foremost citizens. He founded the Bank of Lenoir and also the Library of Lenoir. Among his other honors are to be numbered membership in the State Legislature and his office as trustee of Davidson. Dr. W. J. McKay, of Sumter, S. C., was another of Davidson’s worthy alumni. When in school hewas the winner of the debater’s medal and was valedictorian of his class. He was president of the Board of Trustees and was one of the leaders of the Presbyterian Church in South Carolina. His death was a loss not only to South Carolina, but also to her sister state, North Carolina. The chief speaker of the celebration was Dr. B. R. Lacy, ’06, a graduate of Davidson, Union Seminary, and Oxford University. To some he is better known as “The Fighting Parson,” that name having been applied to him for heroic service “over there.” After a few humorous introductory remarks he made the statement, “Armistice Day will in the future be remembered as one of the most blessed days the world has ever seen, or as one of the most tragic days the world has ever known. It will be remembered for its great joy or for its despair.” One of the most pathetic of his personal experiences while in France, which were related, was that of assisting in the burial of two soldiers from Lenoir, N.C., one of whom had in his pocket a note from his mother which read, “In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths.” In answer to the question as to why the American soldiers were so eager and determined to bring the great conflict to a speedy close, in spite of their extreme weariness, he stated that it was their longing desire to return home. They fought not because of something pushing and forcing them on, but because of something pulling them. But what does all this mean to us? “It means,” said Dr. Lacy, “that while men gather in Washington to work on disarmament plans there must be behind them ourselves in a more intense spirit of peace than we ever had of war. We must see to it that there goes out of the hearts of men that lust which impels them to war.” Several alarming incidents were related, which showed how war ruins nations, not only financially, but spiritually, and how it corrupts art and morals. “They that take the sword shall perish by the sword.” War, the great destroyer, must be destroyed. Christ must be enthroned if war is to be dethroned. Following the address, Professor Erwin, while all stood in reverence, read the names of those Davidson students who sacrificed their lives on the altar of freedom during the late war. It was moved and seconded that a telegram be sent to the honored alumnus of Davidson, ex-President Woodrow Wilson, expressing our sympathy, love, confidence, admiration and appreciation of him for his great services to humanity. Prayer by Dr. Moore, of Japan, and “O Davidson,” by the band, concluded the celebration until the afternoon, when a splendid military exhibition was given. The Armistice Day demonstration given by the Reserve Officers Training Corps Battalion was one without parallel in the annals of the college. It was spectacular and little short of brilliant. Promptly at 2:45 o'clock, headed by the band, the battalion marched on the field to the strains of martial music and formed in company front, each company being led on the field by a beautifully decorated car bearing the sponsor of the company and her escort. The battalion standing at present arms was then presented by Major Phillips to Miss Steele, as goddess of America, the battalion sponsor. Each car remained in front of its respective company until the company marched out on the field to give its stunt, the car then drove out to take its place in line beside the car containing the battalion sponsor. Company A, with Captain Richards commanding, marched to the area in front of the grandstand and was presented by its captain to the sponsor, Miss Sophie Richards, after which it proceeded with its stunt. The manual of arms was executed, the company as a whole commanding, and also a number of squad movements. The movements were clear-cut, and presented a fine spectacle to the large audience. The company was loudly applauded as it marched back to resume its place. Company B, Captain Lowry commanding, gave the most unique performance of the day, after which the company was presented to its sponsor, Miss Helen Gibbs. The platoons, after changing direction in column of squads, marched by the flank then to the rear and resumed their places in column of squads. A line of the cadets wound in and out till they had everyone guessing and then suddenly a large B was seen to be formed by them. This received the hearty applause of the entire audience and was the most original single phase of the performance. The stunt given by Company C was a difficult as well as an unusual one in that there were no commands given during the entire performance. Even the presentation of the company by Captain McIlwaine to Miss Dorothy Finlayson, sponsor, was done without command. The entire silent manual and a number of squad movements and dressings were gone through with without command, being done accurately and in splendid cadence. Captain Miller, commanding Company D, presented it to its sponsor, Miss Eloise Martin. The company then executed at the command of the captain the manual of arms. After this the company took distance and went through a drill with rifles in cadence to the music of the band. This stunt showed up splendidly and was applauded well. Following the stunts of the companies, Dr. J. M. McConnell held the audience in suspense for some moments and then announced the decision of the judges, Company B winning first place and the honor flag, with Company D coming in for second place. Mr. Jackson in an appropriate and brief speech presented the honor flag to the winning company. The sponsor will have the privilege of keeping this flag in her home. Dr. J. W. McConnell made a few well-chosen remarks to the audience on courtesy to the flag. Retreat was then sounded and followed by battalion parade, which concluded the exercises of the day. A large amount of the credit for the success of the demonstration goes to the attractive sponsors, who in pretty costumes, representing the various goddesses, did so much to make the exercises a success. The cars bearing the sponsors of the different companies were beautifully decorated and added a great deal to the demonstration. The battalion car, bearing the sponsor, Miss Steele, as goddess of America, was decorated in red, white, and blue, the national colors being splendidly worked in, in the scheme of decoration. The car of Company A, bearing its sponsor, Miss Richards, as goddess of North Carolina, was decorated in white and green, pine boughs being used to heighten the effect of the color scheme and to suggest North Carolina. The pumpkin, always characteristic of harvest time, was used very effectively in the scheme of decoration of the car of Company B, whose sponsor, Miss Gibbs, was goddess of the Harvest. Beautiful autumnal leaves of red and yellow and large white and yellow chrysanthemums decorated the car bearing Miss Finlayson as goddess of Autumn, sponsor of Company C. The car of Company D, with Miss Martin, the sponsor, as goddess of Dixie, was completely covered with snow-white cotton and was beautiful as well as unique. The demonstration showed to all who saw it what a fine military organization Davidson has. It was indicative of tireless and careful work on the part of both officers and men. It was a fitting memorial, a splendid tribute, a great success, and deserves none but the highest of praise. “Frog” Cassell, ’23, who is coaching the Wilmington H. S. football team, spent Sunday on the Hill. White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED Phone DAVIDSON, N. C. Johnson’s Barber Shop The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves We want your business and you need our service RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor L. A. ELLIOTT SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS I've got all the supplies for them FRUITS CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES “an’ everything” Established 1873 A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co. Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty Street BALTIMORE, MD. Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers WRIGLEY'S