THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1921.

Athletic News

Speaking of Sports

Well—the bunch met their match last week in Virginia, and it was just a case of the best team winning.
All the little bad breaks that follow a team on the road were present, however, and helped to mix matters
worse.

Wildcats

A compact summary of the scores shows:
Virginia 47, Davidson 23.
Elks Club 37, Davidson 23.
Washington and Lee 32, Davidson 28.

The improvement as they went is encouraging, and simply emphasizes what Coach Grey said last fall about Red and Black
teams, “They may be defeated, but they are never beaten.”

Wildcats

“Billy” Roberts led the offensive attack of the Wildcats scoring 40 of his team's 74 points.

Wildcats

“Birchie” Romefelt sustained an injury in the Elk’s Club game and was bothered during the remainder of the trip.

Wildcats

The return of Coach Hengeveld, after a two weeks sickness, means that from now on the old “Gym” will be
worked to death under his direction. Glad to see you out Dutch.

Wildcats

And while our cohorts were on their Northern trip, the followers of the game here were treated to a feminine
representation of the indoor pastime. Friday night the local high school’s girls team lost to the Derita five by a
25 to 19 score.

Monday 14th.
Wake Forest vs. Richmond, at Richmond.

Tuesday 15th.
Wake Forest vs. Va. Medical, at Richmond.
N. C. State vs. Elon, at Raleigh.
Trinity vs. W. and L., at Lexington.

Wednesday 16th.
Davidson vs. Elon, at Elon.
Wake Forest vs. U. of Va., at Charlottesville.
Trinity vs. V. M. I., at Lexington.

Thursday 17th.
Davidson vs. N. C. State, at Raleigh.
Wake Forest vs. W. and L., at Lexington.
Trinity vs. U. of Va., at Charlottesville.

GIRLS PLAY BASKETBALL ON THE COLLEGE COURT

In an evenly matched contest of snappy basketball, the girl’s team from Derita won from the Davidson five by the
score of 25 to 19. Both teams played well and just which one would come out victorious was uncertain until
the very end. Several times the score was tied but each time Derita was able to score and gain the
lead again. Hunter and Jordan were easily the stars for Derita and Evelyn Potts for Davidson. The latter bringing cheers
from the gallery again and again by her ability to find the basket.

Derita 25
Davidson 19

Derita
Jordan
Rumple
Brown
Hunter
Atkins

Davidson
Potts
Hobbs
Moore
Martin
Grey

From the shooting ability of a certain Miss Jordan of Derita, we recommend that she be sent some Davidson literature.
Might be possible to get her to come up and go out for the team. Miss Grey, better known as
Nancy, put up a good game for the locals. The referee was the worst seen here in some time.

Wildcats

The University of North Carolina started out on her extensive Northern trip in great style, but found the sailing rougher
the further North she went. Below are the scores through Saturday:
U.N.C. 28, Virginia 26.
U.N.C. 29, Washington and Lee 25.
U.N.C. 22, Georgetown 38.
U.N.C. 23, V. M. I. 38.

Wildcats

Not much happened with our state opponents last week. Elon trimmed Wake Forest on the former's home floor by an
18 to 15 score. This evens the series between these two schools; W. F. winning on their own floor by
a 16 to 15 score.

R. O. T. C. NEWS.

Gallery practice started this week in preparation for the competition between colleges which lasts from February 28th to March 12th.
There will be ten men selected from the basic and ten from the advanced course. The scores of these men
at the different positions; prone, sitting, kneeling, and standing will be sent in to the Corps headquarters and a list
of the winners will be announced. The scores will be as accurate as possible with an army officer in charge.
A challenge has been received from the Ninth Corps Area out on the Pacific Coast to compete with the winner.
The teams standing first, second, and third, both in the Junior and Senior competitions, will be given an opportunity to
compete with the winners of the Ninth Corps.

Wildcats

As things look now in the race for state championship honors, Trinity seems to have a slight edge in some
respects, but on the other hand, either the University or Davidson may be counted in the running.

Wildcats

Trinity has won all of her intercollegiate games so far, although her win over the University was by only two
points; her win over N. C. State on her home floor was by only 22 points compared to our 37
point advantage over the same team.

Wildcats

Wake Forest may still be considered a contender as her defeat at the hands of Trinity on her home floor,
by only 7 points would indicate her strength.

Wildcats

Guilford, N. C. State, and Elon are practically eliminated. As it stands it seems to be a three-cornered fight between
Trinity, University, and Davidson, with the odds on the former.

Wildcats

This week's schedule calls for:

Thursday 10th.
U.N.C. vs. Elk’s Club, at Lynchburg.
Wake Forest vs. Guilford, at Wake Forest.
Davidson vs. University of Florida, at Davidson.

Friday 11th.
N. C. State vs. Guilford, at Raleigh.
Davidson vs. Citadel, at Davidson.

Saturday 12th.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
Trinity vs. Guilford, at Durham.

Sunday 13th—Bad luck on 13th, so all teams rest up.

According to a new regulation, the issue of shoes to the R. O. T. C. has been discontinued and all
shipments of shoes canceled. No further requisition of shoes will be sent in by the R. O. T. C. commanders.
Among the Seniors at Georgia Tech, 33 out of 37 who graduate in June have agreed to accept commissions in
the Officer’s Reserve Corps, of this number 11 have applied for six months active service. These officers will be among
the first of the output of the R.O.T.C and much is expected from them.

CAMPUSISMS.

Among those spending the weekend in Charlotte were G. E. Weeks, E. M. Alexander, M. O. Dantzler, Paul Price, M.
R. Doubles, J. Sprunt, G. D. Fleming, G. H. Cornelson, L. B. Armstrong, and W. R. McCuen.

J. P. Taylor spent the weekend at his home in Winston-Salem.

Rev. Edgar Tufts, of Banner Elk, N. C., visited his son, E. H. Tufts, ’22, on Saturday.

Messrs. J. P., S. W., and R. K. Robinson were visitors on the hill Sunday.

“The beauty of real friendship is that unconsciously two friends travel uphill together.”

TEAM FINDS GOING HARD (Continued from page 1)

Substitutes: Price for L. Schenck; Davis for Romefelt. Time of halves, 20 minutes. Referee, Davis (Charlottesville Y. M. C. A.)

ELKS CLUB GAME.

Playing before a large crowd in the City Auditorium in Lynchburg, Virginia, last Thursday night, the Wildcats were defeated by
the Elk’s Club team of that city, by the score of 37-23. The Elks Club quint was composed of veteran
players and were well supplied with substitutes just as good as those on the first team. The local aggregationfailed to
display their usual brand of ball and were decidedly inferior in passing to their opponents. The Wildcats did not score
in the initial frame until they had eight black marks up against them, and were further handicapped in this half
by the injury of Romefelt. Their passing was not working up to form and at the sounding of the first
bell they were on the little end of a 20-5 score. In the second half the Elks put in an
entire new team, which they styled the “Wrecking Crew.” It proved to be nearly as capable as their predecessors, but
met with harder opposition, for as the game progressed the Davidsonians got together more and more, and scored regularly toward
the end. They outplayed the second team by one point, but this was not sufficient to alter the previous lead
of the Elks and the final score was 37-23. Shaner, the Elk center, was the shining light for his team,
putting up a pretty exhibition, while Bill Roberts did most of the scoring and played the best game for the
losers. The line-up and summary is as follows:

Elks Club Position Davidson
Johnson (6) .......... J. Schenck (6) R. F.
Lee (6) .................. Roberts (15) L. F.
Shaner (12) .......... Romefelt C.
J. Smith ............... Crawford (2) R. G.
Nelson .................. L. Schenck L. G.

Substitutes: Elks Club, Oppleman (4) for Johnson; Beasley (4) for Smith; Menafee (3) for Shaner; W. Smith (2) for Lee;
Kuhlman for Nelson. Davidson, Davis for Romefelt, Price for L. Schenck, Romefelt for Davis; Davis for Crawford; Crawford for Romefelt.
Time: 20 minute halves. Referee: Wood, Y. M. C. A., Lynchburg.

Washington and Lee Game.
The Red and Black five fell victims of the Generals on the latter’s floor last Friday night in a hotly
contested game by a score of 31 to 28. Davidson opened up with such speed and accurate passing that they
were able to net nine points before the W. and L. five realized what they were up against. The scoring
was done in shifts after this, first Davidson making several points and then W. and L. coming up to their
lead. Neither team allowed the other to take a very strong lead and the first half ended 21 to 16
in the Wildcats’ favor. In the second half the Generals came back strong with good passing and fast team work.
However, they were unable to leave Davidson far in the rear and only won the game in the last two
minutes of play. Roberts for Davidson led both teams in scoring and was the Presbyterian’s mainstay during the entire game.
J. Schenck was a close second, netting ten points. Crawford's work at guard is also worthy of note. Romefelt, Davidson’s
stalwart center, played a good game until he was forced to retire on account of an injury received the night
before. McDonald and Harris led the Generals in scoring and assisted by Stephens, whose floor work and passing was the
most noticeable feature of the game, carried their colors to victory. The shooting of both teams was ragged.

Davidson (28) Position W. & L. (32)
Roberts ................ Thomas R. F.
Schenck, J. .......... Harris L. F.
Romefelt .............. McDonald C.
Crawford ............. Arbogast R. G.
Schenck, L. .......... Stephens L. G.

Goals from floor: Roberts 6, McDonald 5, Schenck, J., 5, Harris 4, Stephens 3, Arbogast 1, Thomas 1, Crawford 1,
Romefelt 1. Fouls: McDonald 3, Roberts 2. Substitutes: Stuart for Harris; Harris for Stuart; Davis for Romefelt; Romefelt for Davis.
Referee: Brett.

REV. J. ANDREW SMITH OCCUPIES PULPIT SUNDAY
Preaches on Salvation From Sin Through Faith, Repentance, and Love

Rev. J. Andrew Smith, evangelist from South Carolina, spoke Sunday morning on the three fundamental elements of salvation: Faith, Repentance,
and Love. By way of introduction, the speaker showed that there can be no salvation apart from Christ, because of
our sin, our unregenerate hearts, and our unbelief. But if we have faith in Christ and repentance for our sins,
we may know that we have salvation, not “in sin” but “from sin.” Mere historical belief in the fact that
there was a Christ is not sufficient, nor is intellectual assent to the doctrine of His Divinity enough. We must
pin our whole faith on Him and mold our actions according to our belief in His teachings. Reformation, the speaker
continued, is not regeneration. We cannot substitute good works, or even preaching, for real repentance. Repentance is a grace enabling
us to see sin through God’s eyes. When we have a vision of Christ, we will not compromise with sin,
but we will flee the very appearance of sin. Finally, we should crown our newly surrendered lives with love, both
for God and for our fellow men, for “if we love not our brother whom we have seen, how shall
we love God whom we have not seen.”

TOWN NEWS.
Dr. C. M. Richards preached Sunday at Abbeville, S. C.
Dr. Moore McConnell spent the weekend in Lexington, N. C.
Miss Kalista Hood, accompanied by Miss Johnson, of Queens College, spent the weekend at Davidson.
Mrs. Lingle spent the day in Hickory attending the reception of the Woman’s Club.
Mrs. C. Monroe left for Columbus, Ga., where she will spend the remainder of the winter with Dr. Stokes Monroe.
Mrs. Rutledge Withers entertained Concord Street Sewing Club last week.
Mrs. C. H. Hamilton was suddenly called to Statesville last week on account of the illness of her brother.
Mr. Louis Johnson, while examining his father’s pistol, was seriously wounded Sunday afternoon. He was immediately rushed to Statesville Hospital,
where medical attention was given him.
Mrs. James Shumaker was taken to Statesville Hospital, where she will undergo an operation.

R. A. DUNN, President
J. A. ANDERSON, N. Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
W. A. WATSON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
S. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

Basketball
Get ready for the final stretch in the race for basketball honors. We can furnish you with all kinds of
basketball supplies.
CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)
5 W. Fourth St.
Phone 3248

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N. C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six
boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, Director Chapel Hill, N. C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director Davidson, N. C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

LIFE INSURANCE--- A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
