THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1921.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI LITERARY SOCIETY STARTS YEAR’S WORK EARLY.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its first regular meeting last Saturday night after the movies. Following the opening exercises, the president announced that the purpose of this meeting was to give all members the opportunity of suggesting plans for the work of the new year. He then threw the session open for such discussion.

Several men offered exceedingly helpful suggestions. One of the best was that each member should do his best to make the work of the Philanthropic Society as attractive as possible. Another was that each man should make it a point to keep himself informed in advance concerning the program. In the near future, a committee from each of the Literary Societies under the leadership of J. H. McKeithen will approach the new men on the matter of society membership.

DAVIDSON GRADUATE APPRECIATES OUR WEEKLY

The circulation manager is in receipt of the following letter from Pebble Stone, ‘19:

Times are hard; money is getting tight; all because a Davidson Democrat no longer heads our government. In view of the above facts, The Davidsonian is an economic as well as absolute necessity to all Davidson men. I enclose my check for $2.00. I need The Davidsonian and will let you hear more from me if I fail to get a single issue. Wishing the Old College a mighty successful year, I am,

Yours very truly,
T. C. STONE, “Hood”

MANY IMPROVEMENTS MADE ON HILL DURING VACATION

Many improvements have been made in and around the campus since our departure last spring. Last year those who roomed in the barracks made a solemn promise that they would never again make their abode there. However, the barracks have been entirely changed in appearance as well as in comfort. The beaver-board walls have been replaced by plastered walls and plastered ceilings. Steam heat has been installed, replacing the stoves. The two buildings have been painted and the entire remodeling gives a clean, pleasing effect.

Professor Erwin’s old home has been changed and remodeled somewhat, and some of the walls have been removed, thus making it a fit place for recitations. Concord is the name given to the building. It will be used for classrooms. The old stock room in the chemistry laboratory has been worked over and will be used for the organic chemistry laboratory. It is now fixed up with the best of laboratory equipment.

Besides this, a new triplex pump for the water system has been installed, which should insure Davidson from having a water famine. Four new residences have been erected and will be occupied by Professors Erwin, Wood, and Porter. In connection with this, the homes of Drs. Lingle and J. L. Douglas, Prof. Fleagle, and Major Hearn have been painted. Prof. Shewmake’s home has been improved also, as have been the classrooms worked over and kalsomined.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

There is no question so intangible or vital that it cannot be successfully solved by the application of common sense. The use of common sense is the beginning of wisdom, and when common sense is overridden by undue agitation, it leads to quick conclusions that close the mind to reason. Without reason, we cannot be reasonable, and if we cannot be reasonable, we cannot be fair to ourselves or to others. Peace and plenty rest upon the great pillar of common sense, and this pillar is set in the solid cement foundation of harmony and unified effort—not in the quicksand of dissension and unrest.

ENDEAVOR EXTENSION PLAN

In addition to the regular Christian Endeavor services held in the local church every Sunday afternoon, the Y. M. C. A. is going to promote Christian Endeavor by extending its field of activity to promote C. E. work in the surrounding neighborhood. The plan is to establish a Christian Endeavor Society at the points where the students teach Sunday School. First, there will be a speaker representing the Christian Endeavor who will visit each point and give a general outline of what the Christian Endeavor means, what it stands for, and what great things it has accomplished in the last five years. This will be followed by a “Flying Squadron,” who will organize a society and get it on a running basis. Then there will be one or two C. E. supervisors attached to each Sunday School teaching team who will carry the work on during the rest of the year. At present, this activity will be confined to the Sunday Schools where the students teach, but doubtless later it will be extended to include a great deal more territory.

Y. M. C. A. HOLDS INITIAL MEETING OF NEW YEAR

With practically every seat occupied, the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday held its first Sunday vesper service. Dwight Chalmers delivered an exceptionally forceful address on the fundamentals of the “Y,” bringing out the point that the “Y” is founded upon belief in Jesus Christ. The service was marked by an unusually fine musical program, Okey Allison leading the singing in fine style. His summer’s work as a song leader enabled him to be additionally helpful. T. M. Lowry, in charge of Bible Study on the “Y” cabinet, made the important announcement that the Bible study classes will be held every Wednesday night at 9 o'clock, the course this year being taken from Acts. After a violin solo by Graves, the service was turned over to Dwight Chalmers. Dwight took as his text Matt. 18:3 and spoke upon belief in Jesus Christ. Until we cease excusing ourselves for our sins and see how Jesus would have us be, we cannot realize these sins. First, we must realize them and then believe in Jesus, which is the basic principle of the Y. M. C. A. If we believe, then let us remember “that all things work together for good to them that love God,” and let the rest go by.

“BROTHER MARK”

Davidson students will have the pleasure of hearing atthe “Y” service Sunday night a man with whom many are already well acquainted—Brother Mark. He will reach here on the 16th and will remain for a few days before returning to New York City. Besides leading the regular Sunday “Y” service, he will hold personal interviews with the students. Brother Mark is an Anglican monk, a graduate of St. John's College, Annapolis, Maryland. During the past year, he has been conducting personal work at Princeton and various other large eastern colleges. He lectured at Blue Ridge during the ten-day “Y” conferences this past summer, and it was there that he met many Davidson students, with whom he had more influence than anyone else. Due to his wonderful personality, he was brought back to Blue Ridge to lecture during the missionary conference. Brother Mark comes here from Atlanta, where he has been holding interviews for several days with Georgia Tech students. He held these interviews in the study of the manse of “the Fighting Parson,” Ben R. Lacy, an old Davidson man of the class of '06.

VOLUNTEER BAND CHOOSES NEW TIME FOR MEETINGS

The weekly meeting of the Volunteer Band will be held each Sunday morning at 10 o'clock at the church, instead of the weekday meeting held last year. During the coming year, some of the time will be devoted to the study of Interdenominational Missions. The deputation committees have already launched an active campaign in the interest of missions, having several engagements for early dates. All men, both old and new, who are interested in foreign missions, are invited to meet with the band each Sunday. Recruiting among our own students is to be a part of the year's program also.

IF YOU'LL

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. The space donated to the Exchange Department of The Davidsonian is given to enable the fellows to get some idea of the things of interest done in and by our sister institutions. It is going to be the endeavor of this department throughout the coming year to take up subjects of interest as nearly as possible. For instance, next week's paper will probably contain news chiefly concerning prospects and developments in football among “Southern camps.” A box is to be placed in the reading room of the library, and we hope that if you read or hear of anything of interest concerning other schools, you will place such news in this box so the next man will learn of it. This is your department and does not belong entirely to any part of the staff. The Davidsonian exchanges with many college publications, all of which may be found on the table in the “Y” reading room. Come and use them!

We exchange with the following institutions: (Penn.) Tr. Greensboro, Greenfield Miss.; School; Univ. of N.C.; Piedmont College; Univ. of Richmond; Tulane; W. & L.; Darlington School; Univ. of S.C.; Shorter College; Lafayette; Ga. Tech.; Univ. of Ga.; Meridian College; Univ. of Va.; Univ. of Redlands; Millsaps College; Univ. of Tenn.; Univ. of Minn.; Baylor Univ.; Wake Forest College; Vanderbilt; Elon College; Furman Univ.; Trinity College; Columbia Univ.; Univ. of Ala.; Guilford College; Georgetown College; Sewanee; Univ. of Ariz.; Hampden-Sidney; Winthrop College; Salem College; Agnes Scott College; Woodberry Forest; N.C. College for Women; Queens College.

MINISTERIAL BAND PROGRAM INCLUDES DEPUTATION WORK

Under the leadership of J. L. Knight, president, the Ministerial Band takes new steps to forward its program this year. The first and most important part of its new program is to send out deputations to the nearby churches urging life consecration by our young people and especially trying to get young men to make the ministry their life work. An interesting program is being worked out for the fall term, and it is hoped that the meetings this year will be full of pep and helpful to every student in college. There will be three talks in the early fall by members of the Band who attended the Blue Ridge M.C.A. Conference last June, on the subjects, “The Call to the Ministry,” “The Need and Work of the Ministry,” and “Recruiting for the Ministry.” It is hoped that every candidate for the ministry in college, or anyone interested in this work, will associate himself with the Band this year and offer his service in carrying out these broadened plans.

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN

New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45. Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

NOTICE

Extra copies of the Handbook can be secured from J.C. Bailey, Editor, at the Commissary. The price is 25c. Send one home! They will also be helpful to Alumni and friends of the college.

Have your suits, collars, and good shirts done up right by the Sanitary Laundry and Dry Cleaning Co. MOORESVILLE, N.C. SMITH & NEEL, Agents

Union Theological Seminary W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

A Victrola In Your Home gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music, and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provide the equipment necessary for real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.”

Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N.C. CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS