THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 348
221 W. Trade St.
Established 1878

A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.
Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.
Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms
“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Gable Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

No, Susie, kid gloves aren’t meant for children.

We believe that every girl of marriageable age (and looks) should own a hammock. A porch swing would be all
right if it was built on the sloping side principle—but it ain’t. No cranking up of your nerve in a
hammock—it’s a sure ‘nuff self-starter. Our motto: a hammock for every corner.

We've heard similar tales about the Shimmy, but we believe the playing with dice is the most shaky business.

Double your fists and then see how many you have. Fooled you, didn’t we? 1—2—3—4!

Three great R. O. T. C. “studs” are Private Business, Corporal Punishment, and General Nuisance.

Speaking of the R. O. T. C. reminds us that the Professor of Military Science and Tactics says, “Pass in
Review!” while the other profs all say, “Flunk, durn it!”

Dew says the only thing he can’t understand about the sun-dial is “What makes it go round.” We refer Mr.
Dew to Groundhog Miller’s book, “The Mechanics of the Sun-Dial.”

Ah-hem! Is That So?
Doctor: “Romeo, what is the past tense of ‘blue’ for us?”
Romeo: “Blew is the past tense of wind, Doctor.”

Does a doctor's report rightly come under “News of the Week?”

A Junior (fairly prominent) returned from his first trip to Winston and asked us right easy like: “Say, where do
all these Winston white boys come from, anyhow?”

J. P. Price, in his journeyings about doing good, went last Sunday to a country Sunday School. He left just
before collection was taken up—urgent business which he had about forgotten, of course.

If you can talk about another fellow’s “looks” while gazing into a mirror—go to it. Most folks haven't got the
heart.

The Physics Of It.
Wooten, in Chem. Lab.: “What does sodium become when placed in water?”
Sec. Lacy: “Wet.”

Who Knows?
Q: “Where has all that snuff that woman used to use gone to?”
A: “No one nose.”

Treat 'Em Rough.
John Poteat: “Gimme a milk shake.”
Soda Jerker: “What d’you mean?”
John Poteat: “Toss a cow about!”

We've never seen pig wash but we've seen pig iron.

He's Not the Man.
Stranger at Mrs. Black’s Apartments to Freshman who answered the door: “Can I get John Pocks here?”
Fresh White: “Naw, but you can get Chicken Pocks here.”

Smarty!
Prof: “What is steam?”
Baldwin: “Water gone batty with the heat.”—Ex.

Horsed!
Baldy Booth went to the barbershop for a haircut. It was a chilly day and Booth said to the barber:
“May I leave my coat on, it’s rather cold today?”
“Yes,” said the barber, “and if you care to you can leave your hat on also.”

That reminds us of the time Bill Finch went into a barber shop in Charlotte and told the barber he
wanted a haircut the worst kind. Not understanding Bill’s slang, the barber jumped on him and cut it off every
old way. Since then Bill has been more particular in giving orders to the tonsorial artists.

T. F. (Bill Joe) Martin and Joash Yonnan answered the following advertisement which appeared in the Mooresville paper: “Would you
marry a young bachelor girl worth $30,000 cash? If so, write — —.” By return mail they were advised that
for six dollars down marriage would be guaranteed. Watch the social column for further developments.

Easy Now.
Watch out for how to grow fat.trouble. Next to Finch’s girl at the Cornelius Sunday School last Sunday. Too Bad!
P. C. Henderson, we are told, made a mistake—he intended to go to Queens. We wonder where Crack Brown dined
last Sunday evening. Nobody seems to know. Joe Story saw an ad in a popular magazine reading thus: “Let us
tell you.” Joe took advantage of his opportunity and forwarded the dollar immediately. In a few days, he received this
message: “Raise hogs.” When you call for “that stuff” at the boarding house, please give the color.

Prof: “Mr. Romefelt, will you define ‘DISTRICT C. E. CONVENTION MEETS HERE IN MARCH Representatives From Fifty Societies Planned For—State
and District President Confers With Davidson Committee. On Saturday and Sunday, March 26th and 27th, the annual convention of the
Southern District Union of North Carolina Christian Endeavor will be held in the Davidson Church. There are 50 societies in
the 12 counties of the district, and a good number of delegates, both young men and young women, will be
present. The convention will open on Saturday afternoon and continue through Sunday evening. Rev. Chas. G. Lynch of Charlotte, state
and district president, spent last Thursday afternoon in Davidson, conferring with Dr. Richards and the Davidson convention committee. Matters relating
to the reception and entertainment of the delegates and to the program of the convention were thoroughly discussed. Because of
the college being here, a strong effort is being made to get more than the usual array of speakers used
at the district conventions. These speakers, a stereopticon lecture, and the snappy conference, will make a program that should prove
interesting to the students and all the young people of the town. Arnett Gamble, '23, is serving as chairman of
the convention committee, with O. J. Allison, '24, as vice-chairman and secretary. Miss Willie Henderson is to direct the securing
of homes, and J. C. Wool, '22, with some teams of the intermediate boys, will give the delegates the proper
reception. Miss Frances Johnson will look after program matters, and Miss Eleanor Moore the arrangements of meeting rooms and the
decorations.

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL AND PAINT
CO., Cleveland, Ohio.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get
into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own an auto or team
or can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52
years in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co.,
Department C, Winona, Minnesota.

FEBRUARY 11, 1921.

For nearly a century, Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information, address The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

PARKER-GARDNER Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records. We send records on approval. Write for special service plan. Parker-Gardner
Co., Charlotte, N. C.

OUR NEW HOME Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven
thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results.
When in Charlotte, we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer
on printing problems that may confront you. PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent

Saturday, Feb. 10th, 11th, and 12th

OVERTURE Academy Orchestra Direction Charles H. Shonland

PATHE NEWS

ROLIN COMEDY

HELEN PRIMROSE Vaudeville’s Nut Comedian

“SLIM” GRINDELL AND CORYL ESTHER “A Study in Thinology”

THE BLACK AND WHITE REVUE A Modern Minstrel Creation Featuring LA CHESTA, assisted by a Capable Cast of Six

WILLIE SOLAR The International Musical Comedy Star

NADOLNY An Oriental Surprise
