THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

DR. FRASER HOOD TO SPEAK AT Y SERVICE NEXT SUNDAY

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Psychology, is to be the speaker at the “Y” service Sunday night. He will in
all probability base his talk on some phase of the life of Christ. Dr. Hood is the first speaker from
the faculty to address the “Y” this year, and from past experience we know he will bring a message to
the student body which will prove both helpful and interesting.

OUTLINE OF DR. HOOD’S SUNDAY SCHOOL LESSON

Read Isa. 28:1-13.

1. There are a great many reasons why the use of strong drink should be condemned, but all can be
classified under three heads. What are they?
2. Let every man come with one specific objection to the use of intoxicating liquors.
3. What does the prophet mean by the phrase, “They have erred through wine,” and “Through strong drink they are
out of the way?” (Ver. 7).
4. How is a drunkard like a “fading flower?” And how does the fat valley become a fading flower?
5. In verse 9 who speaks and what is meant?
6. Why Ephraim rather than some other tribe in verse 1?

D. DWIGHT CHALMERS VISITS Y AT ELON AND GUILFORD

In his capacity as acting State Secretary, Dwight Chalmers visited Elon and Guilford last week to confer with the leaders
of the “Y” work there. He reports the Guilford Y as very strong and active, being much similar to the
one here. The Elon Y is merely one of a number of Christian organizations grouped together under a religious organization
board. At Elon, the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., Ministerial Band, Volunteer Band, and two Christian
Endeavor Societies all meet at the same hour just after supper. This gives everyone a chance to participate in a
religious meeting, and there is a further provision that if any one of these groups reaches as many as 40
members, it must divide. With two co-ed Christian Endeavors on the hill, there would seem to be little fear of
divisions in the ranks of the “Y.” Elon, however, has a very active community service program. An excellent night school
is being conducted, and supervised playground work is carried on in both the white and the colored schools. One afternoon
each week the children are given talks on religious education. Local pessimists may be interested to note that the Elon
students are required to attend both church and Sunday School. Both colleges have a great advantage over Davidson in their
social programs, in that they are co-educational. This enables the Elon students to put on a social every month, while
the strong Guilford Y holds socials every two weeks.

FRASER AND BOOTH GO ON MINISTERIAL DEPUTATION

On last Sunday, Layton Fraser and Willis Booth went on a Ministerial deputation to Rocky River and Harrisburg. At both
places Fraser spoke first, on the “Need for Ministers,” and then Booth presented “The Call.” Large congregations turned out to
hear them at both places, and much interest was shown at the meetings. Many pamphlets were taken along for distribution
among the young people, who showed their especial interest by taking all this literature. Booth and Fraser were royally entertained
by Rev. T. H. Spence, an old Davidson man.

HENRY PATTERSON SPEAKS TO MINISTERIAL STUDENTS

Ephesians, the fourth chapter, was the text on which Henry Patterson spoke with much force and truth at the regular
meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon. There were 3 present and it may be truthfully said that each
fellow left the hall with a greater determination than ever to give.

CONSTITUTION, REPORTERS’ CLUB OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

CONSTITUTION

Article I—Name
The name of this organization shall be The Davidsonian Reporters Club, of Davidson College.

Article II—Object
1. Its object shall be to improve the quality of the reportorial work of the members of the Club, and
to in every proper way promote the best interests of The Davidsonian.
2. Membership in the Club shall be held up to the students as an honor given for efficient and faithful
work for The Davidsonian.

Article III—Members
1. The number of members in the Reporter’s Club, each sharing the privilege and responsibility equally, and shall be at
such time that they can be announced by the last day of Junior Speaking. Selection shall be based on the
following: Length of service, quality of service, quantity of work done; in fact, a man’s whole record in connection with
The Davidsonian work shall be considered, and those men considered most valuable to The Davidsonian shall be declared wearers of
the golden quill. Not more than seven men shall be selected in any one year. The president of the Reporters
Club shall be one of this number. At no time shall the total number of wearers of the golden quill
then in college exceed ten. Members declared wearers of the golden quill prior to their Senior year shall not be
considered as numbered in these ten wearers after Junior Speaking of their.

PHI FRESHMAN SOCIETY. (Continued from page 2)

workings of the Klan in strongest terms of derogation. One of his best points was that the leader of the
forces attacking the Klan would not bring himself before the eyes of the country if he could not substantiate his
charges. In completing the defense of the negative, Carr defined the Klan and quoted its constitution, showing that it.recognized its
place in relation to the government. He also compared it favorably to other organizations. Judging from the behavior of the
audience, the debate was surely a success, for not once did any sign of restlessness appear among them nor did
their attention once flag.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips

Chambers himself over more wholly to obedience to God's will. Patterson pointed out that ministers are leaders of men and
consequently should be better prepared than anyone else to show forth the love of God and His plan of salvation
for the world. He urged that all members of the band learn Christ better by more diligent reading of the
Bible and more earnest prayer. He also urged that the fellows not segregate themselves from the rest of the student
body but that they make a personal friend of every man on the campus and in this way present the
needs and the call of the ministry to a large percentage of 275 men in Davidson who have no definite
plans for life work.

After Patterson's talk, the meeting was thrown open and a good number took part in the discussion. Plans were announced
for financing the work of the band, after which the meeting was closed with the Mizpah benediction.

DAVIDSON DEFEATS TEAM FROM TRINITY IN TENNIS
(Continued from page 1)

Powell and Lefler had exceptionally fine teamwork and formed a brilliant combination. In the singles, one of the fastest matches
was between Cunningham and Turrentine. These two played the same brand of tennis characterized by hard balls and heady net-work
but Cunningham came out on top, 6-4, 6-0. Wilkinson and Lefler also had a good match but Lefler’s cuts finally
won, 6-1, 3-6, 6-1, in spite of Wilkinson’s rally in the second set. Bradley completely outclassed Tabor and won his
match easily 6-1, 6-1. He showed a complete reversal of form, his play being entirely different from that in his
doubles. Davidson has already a fair start towards the state championship as Trinity was the champion last year.

Article IV—Officers and Committees
1. The officers shall be a president, chosen from the rising Senior class; a vice-president, chosen from the rising Junior
class; and a secretary-treasurer, chosen from the rising Junior class. No one shall be eligible for office who is not
a member of the Club.
2. The officers shall constitute the executive committee. This committee shall appoint such other temporary or permanent committees from time
to time as the Club deems necessary or advisable. Temporary committees may also be appointed by the president.

Article V—Elections
Election of officers shall be held by the Club two weeks after the new staff of The Davidsonian is named.

Article VI—Meetings
1. The Club shall have one meeting each week. A member of the staff shall be invited to this meeting,
to help in cementing a cordial relationship between the Club and the staff and to bring up any matters relating
to the promotion of the best interests of The Davidsonian.
2. The quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall be three-fifths of the membership of the Club.

Article VIII—Relation to Staff
The Club shall work in conjunction with the Staff for the best interests of The Davidsonian. Arrangements shall be made
with the Staff to assign one of its members to attend each weekly meeting of the Club, to offer any
suggestions from the Staff as to the improvement of the work of the reporters or any ways by which the
Club members can advance the interests of The Davidsonian.

Article IX—Amendments
This constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the members present at the meeting at which action is
taken, provided the attendance constitutes a quorum and provided that notice has been given in writing and read to the
Club at least two weeks in advance of the time action is taken.

White Drug Company, Agents for all cold troubles
VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent: W. Yonan
12 Chambers
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.
