THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

Y. M. C. A. QUARTETTE FORMED TO HELP MUSIC

The newly organized Y. M. C. A. quartette made its first public appearance on last Sunday night as a part of the regular service. There was a good crowd out to hear Locke White and the special music added much to the meeting. The selection by the quartette was “The Riches of Love,” which when well rendered always forms an impressive part of any service. As the four voices blended in the final chorus, one could have heard the proverbial pin drop in old Shearer Hall.

This quartette is exclusively a “Y” organization. They have offered themselves for service not only in the Sunday night meetings but also in Sunday School work, special meetings, and socials. A series of books containing selections for male quartettes has been purchased, and the “Big Four” will constantly increase and enrich their store of pieces. The personnel is well chosen and could hardly be improved, being as follows: G. B. Sorrells, lead; O. J. Allison, tenor and director; W. S. Buchanan, baritone; and W. E. Crane, bass.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS REPORTS ON DEPUTATIONS

All who attended the Ministerial Band meeting last Sunday will have to agree that the program was an unusually interesting one. This is evidently one of the “livest wires” on the hill, and only because everyone is profoundly interested in the work, and inspired by the hope of a happy future in the service of the Master in winning the world for Christ.

Recently some members of the band have gone to neighboring churches presenting the appeal of the ministry to the youth. Some of these are R. Bitzer, F. L. Johnston, L. A. Taylor, D. H. Ogden, and T. H. Patterson. Taylor and Johnston, who went to Monroe and spoke there on Sunday, also had the opportunity to proclaim the great need in the high school Monday morning in chapel, and later to the senior class alone. They feel that their trip was well worth while. A mother of four small sons in Huntersville came to Patterson after he spoke and told him that she wished her boys were old enough to realize the need so plainly and clearly stated by him. She had not before known how great the need is. “This goes to prove,” said Patterson, “there would be more recruits for the ministry if the cause were stated more plainly to them; ministers preach sermons in such a general way that people do not take it home to themselves, it is never personal with them.” After similar reports from others the meeting was closed with prayer by Baker.

DAVID LIVINGSTONE IS SUBJECT OF VOLUNTEERS

The Volunteer Band met Sunday morning at ten o'clock in the “Y” room in the gymnasium. The topic for study was the life of David Livingstone. Before the first part of the program began the regular monthly business meeting was held. The several committees made reports on their work for the past month and their plans for the future. After prayer Harold Moss read a newspaper clipping which gave a brief but forceful account of Livingstone’s life. Ed Cunningham, the leader of the meeting, made a short talk showing the main lessons we may learn from Livingstone’s career. These were: That we should use the opportunities we have; that determination can work wonders; and the power of a life devoted entirely to Christ and one’s fellow men. The spirit of Livingstone, he went on to show, might be summed up as “That of utter and entire devotion of everything in his life to the accomplishment of the task that God wanted him to accomplish.” Sentence prayers by the band followed and then Moss explained the two posters which had been prepared for this week.

Next Sunday the band will meet in the “Y” room in the gym at 10 o'clock and will study the lives of S. N. Lapsley and Alex. McKay. Books on these men may be found in the library and the members are urged to make a study of these men before coming to the meeting. In this way they will be much more interested in the discussion.

MISSIONARY GIFT GOAL IS THOUSAND DOLLARS

One thousand dollars will be the goal of the mission drive this year, as it was last. Where the money will go is not quite decided. The president of Hanchow Christian College, in China, says that he wants to get some Davidson spirit in that institution; so he has written, asking that a Davidson man be sent to teach there. A committee is now at work, trying to secure such a man. If it is successful, the results of the drive will go toward his support, instead of to Mr. Parker, of Korea, as in former years, and Davidson will support an alumnus in China. The drive will start for either Mr. Parker or the other Davidson man, as soon as something definite has been decided.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS FRASER AND GAMBLE OUT

Last Sunday T. L. Fraser and W. Arnett Gamble went on a Ministerial Band deputation to Bethany, Tabor, and Harmony, three points near Statesville served by Dr. J. A. Scott, father of three Davidson alumni: Rev. Leigh R. Scott, '08, J. A. Scott, ’11, and Gordon P. Scott, ’10. Fraser presented the need for full-time Christian service, in the ministry and the other branches of work, and Gamble gave the call to service. At the close of each service Gamble also spoke on young people’s work. At the Harmony service Sunday night, several denominations were represented and opportunity was afforded to talk to Epworth Leaguers and members of the Baptist Young People’s Union. With three services and some thirty miles of travel by the John Henry route,These fellows had a full day, but they report a fine reception and a thoroughly enjoyable trip.

D. BIBLE CLASSES HELD IN SPITE OF ATTRACTIONS

In spite of the other attractions on last Wednesday, the student Bible classes had as good attendance as usual. In fact, five of them hit their high-water marks. The Sunday Schools kept well up to their standards on Sunday afternoon. White's, 7. Grey’s 8. Georgia (2d) 17. Georgia (3d) 10. Watts (1st) 10. Watts (2d) 16. Watts (3d) 13. E. Rumple (1st) 6. E. Rumple (2d) 8. E. Rumple (3d) 10. W. Rumple (2d) 12. S. Barracks (No. 2) 5. N. Barracks (No. 1) 12. N. Barracks (No. 2) 2. N. Chambers (1st) 11. V. Chambers (2d) 9. V. Chambers (3d) 21. Chambers (1st) 6. Chambers (2d) 12. Chambers (3d) 11. Total 206.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports | MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED | leaving the actors in darkness at a critical point, then flashing suddenly on them again, produced a weird effect. The play was directed by Penrhyn Stanlaws, one of America’s most noted illustrators. More than a year ago Vice-President Lasky, of the Famous-Players-Lasky Corporation, had Mr. Stanlaws placed in the Paramount studios. It was hoped that Mr. Stanlaws’ well-known artistic ability might be of service in adding the artistic touch which many say is lacking in most cinema productions. This necessitated a considerable study of motion picture technique. Mr. Stanlaws directed several minor plays with success, but “The End of the World” is his first feature. The critics are divided in their opinions, but Sherwood, of Life's staff, holds that he has made a distinct success of it.

Next Friday evening at 7 o’clock Wallace Reid will be shown in “The Love Special.” Coming are: “Experience,” said to stand out as one of the first-rate film successes of the year, and Elsie Ferguson in “Footlights.”

TOWN NEWS

The ladies of the Civic League gave a farewell tea on Tuesday evening to Mrs. Woosley. Rev. and Mrs. Woosley are being transferred to a Salisbury church, much to the regret of the Davidson people.

Harding ID), 19), 18E, celebrated his eighty-ninth birthday on Wednesday. His grand-daughters, Mrs. A. A. McGeachy and Mrs. A. G. Brenizer, motored up from Charlotte to dine with him.

Dr. E. H. Sloop, a famous football star of ’97, was an interested spectator at the N. C. State-Davidson game. He and Mrs. Sloop, a sister of Dr. Martin, started at sunset from their home, 130 miles distant. Dr. and Mrs. Sloop conduct a mission school in the mountains.

Mrs. C. M. Richards has returned from Long’s Sanitarium, in Statesville.

Professor and Mrs. Erwin entertained the members of the faculty and their wives on Friday evening. Receiving with them were the new members of the faculty circle and Professor Erwin’s sisters, Mesdames Laxton and McCoy, of Charlotte, and White, of Graham.

Dr. Martin conducted services at the Methodist church Sunday, in the absence of the pastor.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
AKE MARTIN, 48. E. Trade St.
A. L. Faul, Rigo. Phone 902

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

YOUR FURNISHINGS!
Where do you buy them?
We can fill your needs at POPULAR PRICES
A. Pittle
Opposite the Southern Mfg. Club
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The S. & W. Cafeterias
Charlotte
Winston-Salem

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Fraternity Stationery
Also Plain and College Seal Stationery
Orders taken for engraved visiting cards
W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL, NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
T. S. McPheeters, Cashier
W. Stewart, Assistant Cashier
A. G. Brenizer, Assistant Cashier
Bell R. Dunn, President
J. A. Anderson, Vice-President
W. H. Johnston, Vice-President
Manager
Capital, Surplus, Etc. Over $1,000,000.00