LAST ISSUE OF OLD STAFF

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 25, 1921. No. 24

Davidson College Band Takes Pleasant Trip
Men Render Varied Programs in Montreat, Asheville, and Lincolnton

The band made its first trip of the season last week, leaving Thursday morning on the 9 o'clock train. Three
engagements were filled, one each at Montreat Normal, Asheville Normal, and the Lincolnton High School. Splendid audiences heard each of
the concerts, which were rendered in an excellent manner. The program's middle name was “Variety.” There was something for all
the varying tastes of a heterogeneous audience, ranging from “Carmen” to “Wang Wang Blues.”

The saxophone quartet, composed of White, Buchanan, Booth, and Nesbit, the latest addition to the band, made a splendid hit
and won many encores. The violin solos by Buchanan not only demonstrated the versatility of the program but also that
he was an adept with the bow, and the Spanish Folk Songs, sung by White, never fail to be very
pleasing to the most discriminating audiences; while Beck’s rendition of the slip-horn productions “slide” in for their place on a
well-rounded-out program.

The first performance was given at the Montreat Normal College. The troupe arrived there in the early afternoon and were
taken to the college by automobiles. A reception by the students was given in honor of the organization during the
afternoon and proved to be an enjoyable affair. At the conclusion of the performance, the fellows hung around a while,
and from all reports, a good many of them lost their hearts due to the moon, the mountain scenery, etc.,
etc. Going up on the train, things were kept lively by the saxophone quartet, consisting of Buchanan, White, Booth, and
Nesbitt. The crowd also enjoyed seeing the man who claims to have the longest beard in the world. Due to
the kindness of the college authorities, the girls were given a half holiday Friday morning, which accounts for the lengthy
sojourn of the boys here. About 1:30 p.m. Friday, Director Freeman sounded “Assembly,” calling forth the members of the organization
from the nooks, crannies, and mountain caves. The troupe arrived in Asheville about 3 p.m., and enjoyed seeing the sights
of the city. One member of the organization tells the story that “Willie P.” Nesbitt would have made his debut
into the (Continued on page 4)

J. P. PRICE “Y” PRESIDENT FOR 1921-1922.

J. P. Price was elected president, C. E. Cunningham vice-president, and C. R. Crawford secretary, in the Y. M. C.
A. election held Monday morning. At a meeting called Saturday for the choosing of new “Y” officers, three men were
nominated for the position of president: June-bug Price, Ed Cunningham, and Mac Richards. No one man received a majority, so
on Monday a second ballot was taken which gave Price the number of votes necessary for election and made Cunningham,
second high man, vice-president. Those nominated for secretary were Stewart Buchanan, Bob Davidson, Pat Crawford, and Hugh Smith. The final
ballot, between Crawford and Smith, placed the former in the secretary's chair. The men just elected to “Y” offices are

New Group of R. O. T. C. Cadet

Six Meets Arranged for Tennis Team
All Plans Laid for Selection of This Spring’s Net Artists

“Are you ready?” “Let ’em come!” These and a regular hubbub of other such shouts are filling the new tennis
courts these days. Favored by the best tennis weather in many years, and by the impetus of good new courts,
the tennis outlook for this spring is unusually bright. This year’s schedule is probably the heaviest Davidson has ever had,
and will call for the very best tennis the old college can put out. The following is a tentative outline:

April 13—Lenoir College, at Hickory.
April 21—Trinity College, at Davidson.
April 27 to 30—N. C. Intercollegiate Tournament, at Greensboro.
May 4—Elon College, at Davidson.
May 13—Lenoir College, at Davidson.
Last of May—S. I. A. A. Tournament, at Atlanta.

The Varsity Tournament, held on the campus, will probably begin on Thursday afternoon, March 24th, and close on the following
Wednesday, March 31st. The schedule will be posted on the Chambers bulletin board. In this tournament, the four best men
are to be chosen to form the college team. The fifth best man, to be called the best player outside
of the team, may challenge for a place on the team, and if he defeats the member of the team
whom he challenges, a committee in charge will take definite action toward giving him this place on the team. Likewise,
any member of the student body may challenge this fifth best man, and defeating him, take his place. All such
challenges and the decisions from such challenges are to be in charge of a committee to be appointed and later
announced. In this way, any man in the student body may work his way to the team if he has
the real ability.

Now that Davidson has good courts and faces a heavy schedule, may not this be the best year she has
ever had in tennis? If it is to be such, every man must get out and do his best.

PLAY

Officers Photographed During Practice in Automatic Pistol Firing.

Christian Endeavor Convention Opens Saturday Afternoon
Good Speakers and Interesting Program to be Enjoyed—Attendance Prospect Good

The Young People’s C. E. Convention will have its first session on Saturday afternoon, beginning at 3 o'clock. However, this
session will adjourn at 4 o'clock for the ball game with Oak Ridge. There will be approximately 75 out-of-town delegates.
Entertainment will be furnished by the townspeople and some of the students. J. C. Wool, aided by the local Senior
and Intermediate Endeavorers, will meet the delegates at the train and conduct them to the church and then to the
homes where they will be entertained. A reception will be given at the gymnasium by the ladies of Davidson at
7 o'clock Saturday evening for the delegates and local Endeavorers. The night session Saturday will be affirmative. In addition to
the question, and then set forth held at8 o’clock. There will be sessions Sunday afternoon and night. On account of
this, the regular Sunday School will be held at 10 o'clock Sunday morning. The principal speakers of the convention will
be Mr. Charles F. Evans, the Secretary of C. E. in the Southern States. He has had wide experience in
this line of work and is brim full of enthusiasm and good plans for the young people. Those who attended
the Young People’s Conference at Montreat last summer will remember Mr. Evans with much pleasure. The students and the people
of Davidson are cordially invited to attend the convention meetings and to become acquainted with the delegates. A brief outline
of the convention program is given below:

Saturday, 3 to 4—Song service, devotionals, welcomes by Frank Toney and Lewis Schenck, and response by visitor. “The Children’s Claim,”
a Junior playlet by Davidson Juniors.
Saturday, 7 to 8—Picnic supper at gymnasium, for delegates and local Endeavorers.
Saturday, 8 to 10—Song service, devo- (Continued on page 4)

Photo by McIlwaine

Fresh-Soph Debate
D. H. Ogden and L. P. Burney Win Debater’s Medals in Heated Contest

The annual Fresh-Soph debate was held in the Eumenean Literary Society hall on Monday night, March 21st. The query debated
was: “Resolved, that the Smith-Towner Educational Bill should be adopted.” The affirmative side was upheld by the Philanthropic Society. The
debaters for the Phi's were L. P. Burney, W. Z. Bradford, and A. S. McIlwain. The negative side of the
question was supported by the Eumenean Society. R. F. Davidson, R. H. Smith, and D. H. Ogden were the debaters
of the Eu. Society. The decision of the judges was in favor of the negative. The best debater, as chosen
by the judges, from the affirmative side, was L. P. Burney, and from the negative, D. H. Ogden.

Burney was the first speaker on the affirmative. He gave a very clear definition of the points to be taken
up by the affirmative in the order of the speakers. His debate was excellent. Davidson, the first speaker on the
negative, after pointing out the needs of a remedy for the present educational system, stated in clear terms the issues
of his side of the question. Bradford, the second on the affirmative, argued from a point of illiteracy, Americanization, and
physical education. He gave a number of statistics in proof of his statements. Smith, the second on the negative, argued
two points: that such a system would stunt educational growth, and that it would tend to centralize power. McIlwain, third
on the affirmative, pointed out the advantages that would be realized by the adoption of this system. Ogden, the last
speaker of the negative, offered a better solution to the problems of education. His solution was the adoption of the
Rotary Board as proposed by Dr. Boroughs, and now in use by the States of New York and Massachusetts. Ogden
delivered his well-prepared debate with much force and showed excellent ability as a speaker.

Davidson Baseball Season Starts With a Rush
New York University, Oak Ridge, and Carolina to Test Mettle of Wildcats in Next Four Days

This week witnesses the start of the college baseball season throughout the South, and the enthusiastic fans of the national
pastime will watch with interest the efforts of their favorites. Davidson is no exception to the rule, and when “play
ball” is called Thursday afternoon on Sprunt Field the career of the 1921 Wildcat baseball team will be launched. At
that time the Red and Black cohorts will be matched against the representatives of New York University, and they are
determined to annex the initial game, worthy as their opponents may be. The following two days will be devoted to
a two-game series with the Oak Ridge outfit, then after a rest on Sunday, the Wildcats will journey up to
Winston to conquer “Coach Bill’s” new charges, the Carolina Tarheels.

New York University is beginning her season with a tour of North Carolina. They play Monday and Tuesday at Trinity,
Wednesday at Chapel Hill, Thursday the Wildcats at Davidson, and N. C. State at Raleigh on Friday. Not much dope
is obtainable at the present time on the Northern ball tossers, but their showing the first of the week will
tell us something of what to expect. It is a safe guess to say that they will be an accomplished
outfit, and the Wildcats will have to fight tooth and nail to overcome them. It is Davidson’s first encounter with
a Northern University, and all efforts will be made to take the visitors into camp. The advance line-up as sent
down by their manager reads as follows: Captain Delaney, p.; Hirchfield, p.; Draffen, c.; Nelson, 1b.; Liss, 2b.; Baker, 3b.;
Flynn, ss.; Weinheimer, lf.; Goeller, cf.; Robertson, rf.

Oak Ridge is a prep school, but the baseball teams that they put out are of a calibre fit for
any college varsity. Every year they give us a battle royal and this season they will come with an even
firmer determination to carry off the honors. Interest centers, however, with the contest at Winston on Easter Monday with the
diamond artists of Chapel Hill. Coach Bill Fetzer has begun his work over there this spring and is putting out
a team that bids fair to be one of the (Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE
Thursday—3:00 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. University of N. Y., at Davidson. 7:15 p.m., Phi Literary Society.
Friday—3:00 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson. 9:00 p.m., Mission Study Leaders’ Class.
Saturday—3:00 p.m., C. E. Convention at Presbyterian Church. 3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Oak Ridge, at Davidson. 7:15, Movies: Wallace
Reid in “Always Audacious.” 7:15 p.m., Eu. Literary Society. 8:00 p.m., C. E. Convention meeting.
Sunday—10 a.m., Mission Study Classes. 2:00 p.m., C. E. Convention meeting.
Monday—Holiday! 2:45 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Univ. of N. C., at Winston-Salem. 10 p.m., “Wildcat” Special leaves Winston-Salem.
