PREPARE LET'S FOR BEAT EXAMS HE STATE FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 29, 1921. No. 29

Press Association Meets With Local Publication

Thirteen College Publications Represented at First Annual Convention

The delegates to the second convention of the newly organized North Carolina Collegiate Press Association arrived in Davidson last Friday
afternoon. They were met at the station by representatives of The Davidsonian and the Magazine and were escorted to the
Philanthropic Literary Society Hall, where they registered. There were approximately 25 delegates, about a dozen of whom were young ladies.

This association was organized at a meeting held in Chapel Hill last February 5th. Eleven of the leading colleges of
the state were there represented. At this time an invitation was extended to the association by the delegates from Davidson
to hold its next meeting at Davidson.

Friday Evening’s Session.

The first session was held Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock in Phi Hall. Carroll W. Weathers (Wake Forest) acted as
president in the absence of Eris Cassell. The meeting was opened by a prayer by Dr. Hood. Professor Currie then
delivered the address of welcome which was interrupted several times by laughter and applause. He brought out the fact that
the intellectual aristocracy of the North Carolina colleges was being entertained at Davidson since journalism calls upon the intellect more
than does any other profession. "Guests," said Professor Currie, "always bring pleasure to their entertainers. If they do not cause
pleasure when they come they cause it when they depart. In this case it gives us great pleasure to welcome
you to Davidson, and since we know that you were chosen to represent your college newspapers and magazines, we know
that you compose the intellectual aristocracy of the colleges of North Carolina."

This address of welcome was responded to by Carroll W. Weathers, who expressed the gratitude of the association at being
invited to Davidson, the home (Continued on page 3)

POLITY CLUB SECURES WELL-KNOWN SPEAKER

Mr. Frederick Moore, of the Institute of International Education of New York, will speak to the Polity Club, Friday, April
30th. His subject will be "The Problem of Japan in China and Siberia; the Anglo-Japanese Alliance." Mr. Moore has established
himself as one of the most able newspaper correspondents and journalists in this country. He has traveled a great deal,
having lived for extended periods in various parts of the world. He is well informed as to the state relations
of Japan and China. He has made a large number of lectures on the condition of affairs in Turkey and
Russia, one of them being on the alliance of Islam and the Bolsheviki. Mr. Moore served during the Peace Conference
in France as an American correspondent, and has just returned from a trip abroad. Thus he brings to the discussion
of international affairs a wealth of first-hand information.

It is the aim of the Polity Club to have several speakers each year. Last year Mr. Arthur P. Newman
gave a lecture on "The Organization and Problem of the British Empire," and Baron Koff spoke on "The Situation in
Russia." The club considers itself very fortunate in having Mr. Moore to speak to them this year.

Sunday Club Coming Here

Deputation to Conduct Church and Y. M. C. A. Services Sunday

A most interesting and helpful series is promised us on next Sunday. At this meeting three of Atlanta's best businessmen,
who are members of the Billy Sunday Business Men's Club, are to speak. They are Messrs. Frederick I. Willis, who
is an agent for the Northwestern Life Insurance Company; James Morton, who is secretary of the Billy Sunday Club of
Atlanta, and Mr. Thrower, who is engaged in the real estate business and is also president of the club. The
coming of the two first mentioned is looked forward to with especial pleasure by those who were fortunate enough to
hear them at the Laymen's Convention recently held in Greenville. In addition to conducting the "Y" service these men will
be in charge of both the morning and evening church services and will hold a personal workers' conference some time
during the afternoon. It is very probable that a union service will be held with the Methodist Church on Sunday
evening.

The theme of these services will be "What Laymen Can Do for Christ." This Billy Sunday Club, which is composed
entirely of laymen, is accomplishing great things in several of our Southern cities. A series of excellent services from which
much good should come may justly be expected here next Sunday.

MAGAZINE OFFICERS FOR NEW YEAR ARE ELECTED

On Tuesday of last week the student body elected George H. Cornelson editor-in-chief and E. A. Nash business manager of
the Davidson College Magazine. The students of Davidson have been publishing this paper for several years with much success. The
appointment of the staff has not been completed, but its membership to date is as follows: D. L. Mahood, assistant
editor-in-chief; James Sprunt, exchange editor; (Continued on page 3)

One Game Won and Two Lost During Last Week

Elon Defeated in Pretty Game—Trinity and Citadel Win Handily

Tuesday, the 12th, on Sprunt Field, the "old Wildcat team showed Elon her dust. Although unable to do anything more
than tie the previous game, Davidson showed that she outranks Elon by defeating her team 3 to 1 in the
most hotly contested fray seen on Sprunt Field this year. The game was mostly a pitchers’ battle except for several
spectacular hitting streaks which usually resulted in no runs. Both pitchers, Miley and Barker, pitched good ball, Miley outclassed his
opponent somewhat by striking out six men and allowing the Elon sluggers only six hits, while Davidson's stick artists managed
to cop out 11 hits off Barker. The excitement started in the first inning. Elon was next up and with
no men on and one out the situation looked all damped.Batter, but ~ NC TIONS Hard Contest at Clemson

Clemson’s Low Hurdle Record Broken

The meet track meet of the season was lost at the hands of the Trinity club in a hard contest
at Clemson last Saturday. The score was 83 to 23; the meet was very interesting and Clemson's low hurdle record
was broken. Davidson was slightly handicapped by having only 10 men entered as compared to the 15 at Clemson. These
10, however, put up some stiff opposition and all of the events were closely contested. Out of the 13 first
places, the Trinity succeeded in winning 12. Among the Wildcat track artists, Fricker was the only first-place winner. He came
out ahead in the mile run, followed by McBride, also of Davidson. McBride ran another good race in the two-mile
event. Denniston and Yack also did good work and showed promise of future success. Clemson's low hurdle record was broken
by Wade. This meet further advanced Owens and Dick, making them stars. While at Clemson, the Davidson team was given
the best of treatment and all returned with a high regard for Clemson. They predict great things for Clemson's excellent
track squad, especially when under such a good coach and backed by such an enthusiastic student body.

Results:
100-yard dash: 1st, Salky (Clemson), 10 4/5; 2nd, Wade (Clemson); 3rd, Denniston (D.C.)
Mile: 1st, Fricker (D.C.), 4:50 1/5; 2nd, McBride (D.C.); 3rd, Cannon (C.)
High jump: 1st, Owens (C.), 5 feet 4 inches; 2nd, Gentry and Erwin tied.
Shot put: Gilmer (C.), 38 feet 5 1/2 inches; 2nd, Knight (D.C.)
Low hurdles: Wade (C.), 27 2/5; 2nd, Owens (C.); 3rd, Dick (D.C.)
Pole vault: 1st, Bryan (C.), 10 feet, 9 inches; 2nd, Streibich (D.C.)
220-yard dash: 1st, Salky (C.), 23 seconds; 2nd, Denniston (D.C.)
Half mile: 1st, Kilgore (C.), 2:17 4/5; 2nd, Gower (C.); 3rd, Galloway (D.C.)
Discus: 1st, Colbert (C.), 113 feet 7 inches; 2nd, Gilmer (C.), 113 feet, 4 1/2 inches.

127 Delegates to the First Convention of the North Carolina Press Association, at Davidson, April 22 and 23. Photo by
McIlwane: Members “Atlanta. I Billy Wildcat Track Team Loses Trinity Wins in Tennis

Bratten tripled, putting three men on and no out. Underwood knocked a fast one to Ratch, who promptly gobbled it
up and prevented a score by Davidson until the next inning. Ratchford made the first counter for Davidson in the
second half of the first frame. He singled, and on Brown's single advanced to third and later to home on
a wild throw and a poor catch. Things looked prosperous (Continued on page 2)

Tennis Tournament Here Monday

The Davidson Racqueteers suffered defeat Monday afternoon, while the equally interested Trinity quarter were brought to a close match and
were held to a game win. Bradley and Ormond, of the Wildcat team, showed rare form while Whitener and Cornwell
also played well. The Davidson club played steadily throughout and won with ease, showing up well in all the matches.
The Trinity quartet was surprised at the manner they took the doubles in the singles, however, each match was closely
contested. Bradley and Cunningham, of the Wildcat team, showed rare form while Whitener and Cornwell also played well. The Davidson
club played steadily throughout and won with ease, showing up well in all the matches. The Trinity quartet was surprised
at the manner they took the doubles in the singles, however, each match was closely contested. Bradley and Cunningham invaded
Greensboro Tuesday, playing various N.C. teams in the State tournament.

BAND HAS FOUR-DAY TRIP TO SEVERAL NEAR-BY POINTS

The Davidson College Band returned to the campus Friday after a four-day trip through the State. One of the most
enjoyable features of the trip was the Pryor's Band concert in Charlotte Friday morning, all of the Davidson musicians attending.
The band rendered concerts at Mitchell College, in Statesville; Lenoir College, in Hickory; Lincolnton High School of Lincolnton, and Sharon
Church, near Charlotte. The members of the musical organization pronounce the trip one of the most enjoyable and successful of
the year. Everywhere they were greeted by large and appreciative audiences.

YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO MISS BLUE RIDGE!
