THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1921

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. EGBERT W. SMITH TO VISIT OUR CONGO MISSION

An official visit will be paid to the Congo mission of the Presbyterian Church during the coming winter by the Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions, Dr. Egbert W. Smith, ’82. Dr. Smith will sail for Belgium on November 19th. In Brussels, he will have a conference with the colonial minister who has supervision of the government of the Belgian Congo. From Antwerp, he will sail with a party of missionaries returning to Africa down the Atlantic to the mouth of the great Congo river. Two months will be required to make the trip up the Congo, 1,200 miles, to the heart of Western Central Africa, where the Southern Presbyterian mission stations are located. The visitation of the mission stations and the long hammock trips between will require about three months. The return trip will take another two months, making an absence of seven months in all.

Dr. Smith will hold, at each of the five stations, a conference of as many missionaries as possible, which conference will continue its daily sessions as long as may be necessary. A tentative schedule of topics for these conferences has been sent in advance to these missionaries who are asked to give careful study to the topics and to make such careful investigation of the facts and figures involved or asked for as may be found practicable. Each conference will last at least five or six days. A similar plan was pursued by Dr. Smith on his trip to the Orient a few years ago with the very best of results.

DEATH OF PEE WEE RATCHFORD, ’21

News of the death of Pee Wee Ratchford, '21, was sent to Davidson last Thursday evening and spread like wildfire over the campus. Some thought it just a rumor but it quickly proved to be true. Edwin Earle Ratchford, ex-’21, was struck by the engine of the Carolina Special about three o’clock Thursday afternoon and died two hours later, without regaining consciousness. The accident happened on a bad crossing about a mile below Carlisle, S. C., Ratchford’s home. It seems that Ratchford and a Mr. Welch, a friend, were planning to go to Union, S. C., about 15 miles from Carlisle on business. Mr. Welch wanted to go to his home one mile and a half below Carlisle to get his coat. So they both started to Mr. Welch’s home in a Ford touring car with Ratchford driving. It so happened that there had been a freight wreck just below Carlisle and the engine of the Carolina Special from Charleston to Cincinnati was switching up and down the track relaying passengers over the wrecked zone. Coming at a fast rate it struck the Ford right on the crossing. The car was torn to pieces, Mr. Welch was instantly killed and Ratchford’s skull was crushed. The engineer failed to notice the wreck and it was some time before it was discovered. Ratchford was carried immediately to a hospital in Union where he died about five o'clock in the afternoon. His body was interred in the family plot in Union beside his twin brother who died in infancy.

Ratchford had planned to come up for the Wake Forest game last Saturday and later he intended going to the University of N. C. to study law. Pee Wee was a good athlete, having played four years on the baseball team. Though small in stature he had a large heart, and was one of the most friendly boys on the campus. His death was a sad blow for a host of friends both here in college and in South Carolina where he was well known.

TO WED IN NOVEMBER

Professor and Mrs. R. E. T. Yates, of Raleigh, N. C., announce the engagement and approaching marriage of their daughter Louise, to John Lewis Payne, of Charlotte. The wedding will take place in November.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Twenty-eight new members were received into the West Avenue Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, N. C., of which R. C. Long, ’13, is pastor, on Sunday, October 2nd. During Mr. Long’s pastorate of 14 months, the membership has been increased from 183 to 219.

E. C. Murray, Jr., '14, is now doing missionary work in Zitacuaro, Michoacan, Mexico.

D. T. Caldwell, ’14, was elected moderator of the Wilmington Presbytery, which met last week in Clarkton, N. C.

W. H. Boggs, ’07, who is pastor of the Arsenal Hill Presbyterian Church in Columbia, S. C., held a series of meetings last week in Rose Hill, S. C.

J. W. Moore, ’86, was on the campus last week.

H. A. Knox, ’04, at a recent meeting of the Piedmont Presbytery, was appointed manager of the Progressive Campaign.

R. T. Gillespie, '04, has resigned his pastorate of the Maxwell Street Presbyterian Church of Lexington, Ky., to accept a unanimous call to the First Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky. While at Davidson, Mr. Gillespie was a prominent figure. He is the man who made Spaulding and Waterman famous on the campus. He was secretary to Dr. Henry Louis Smith in his college days and has held several important positions since.

E. G. Routt, ’10, is located at 138Clinton Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. He is in the Spanish department of the Polytechnic Preparatory School in Brooklyn. J. J. Love, ’19, who is better known as Amo, is making a success in the tobacco business. He was on the campus last Sunday en route to Bennettsville, S.C., to rejoin his wife and the “Amolette.” Joe Warren, ex-’23, is in the undergraduate school of Princeton University. Jap Cumming, ’21, is in the graduate school of Princeton University. Rev. R. K. Timmons, D.D., ’04, of the faculty of Arkansas College, Batesville, Ark., during July, August, and September filled the pulpit of the Second Presbyterian Church of Little Rock, Ark. Besides this pastoral work, he traveled all over the state of Arkansas working in the interest of his college. B. H. Boyd, ex-’22, is teaching Science in the High School at Cuba, Alabama. Boyd is at the same time taking his B.S. degree from the University of Alabama, in the correspondence department. The university has over 100 students in this department.

PATHE NEWS AND A COMEDY WAS FRIDAY’S MOVIE CARD

Owing to the game, weekly pictures were shown Friday night. The attractions for the evening were Pathe News and a comedy featuring Harold Lloyd. In the Pathe News reel were several golf scenes, which appealed very much to Dr. Arbuckle’s followers in this sport. Although the pictures were short, they were enjoyed greatly by the student body. Also, due appreciation should be given to our orchestra, which furnishes music for these occasions. On next Saturday night, October 22nd, “The City of Silent Men,” a Paramount picture, will be shown.

COURSES IN SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING STARTED HERE

A night class in shorthand and a class in typewriting have been organized by W. A. Gamble and O. J. Allison. The class will meet three times a week in room number one, Shearer Hall, and at present is meeting on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday nights, after supper. However, the time of meeting has not been definitely decided upon, but will be determined later according to the convenience of the majority of the class. This course should prove very beneficial to all taking it, as shorthand and typewriting are useful to a man after he has finished college in any occupation in which he is engaged. It will also be very helpful while in college in classroom, notebook work, and in many college activities. About twenty have joined the class, and with application and a little work, each one will have a fairly good knowledge of shorthand by Christmas. Allison and Gamble will make competent and able instructors as both have had a great deal of experience in this work. These men will conduct another class in the spring for those who cannot take it now.

STUDENT DRYS FROM WORLD FEDERATION

International Conference of Student Leaders in Switzerland Results in World-Wide Organization.

Chicago, Ill., Oct. 18—Representatives of the student bodies of 12 countries became signatories to a world student federation against alcohol in a three-day conference held the last of August at Lausanne, Switzerland. Coming immediately after the sessions of the Sixteenth International Congress against Alcoholism, this action is most significant in the international struggle against the alcoholic traffic. The countries represented in the new federation are: Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, Estonia, United States of America, Belgium, Germany, France, Great Britain, Holland, Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia. This conference was called by the provisional committee appointed in the summer of 1920 at Karlstad, Sweden, at a similar international meeting. The officers elected for the opening period are:
President, Dr. Courtenay, London, England.
Secretary, Onno van der Veen (University of Leiden), Amsterdam, Holland.
Treasurer and International Secretary, Harry S. Warner, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
Member of Executive Committee, Sigfrid Borgstrom (Uppsala University), Stockholm, Sweden.
Member of Executive Committee, Robert Joos, (University of Zurich), Zurich, Switzerland.

“After Every Meal” WRIGLEY’S The Flavor Lasts!

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES

Established 1873
A. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.