The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 3 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Forum Editor
Managing Editor
BAILEY JR.
Editor
Editor
M.C.A.
DAVIDSON
Assignment Editor
SPRUNT
Social Editor
Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
L. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, E. H. BRADFORD, W. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. IVES, J. C. SMITH, R. H. CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, J. R. TULLER, C. D. COX, W. M. JONES, R. R. WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D. KNOX, W. I. WILDMAN, A. C. ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
C. WOOL
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES..... Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation:
S. C. FAIN
P. C. HENDERSON
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Hats off to the “Praying Colonels” of Centre.

The comeback of the Wildcats in last Saturday’s game with Richmond University proved the truth of the old saying that
it is better late than never.

The Davidsonian wishes to thank N. C. C. W. for the wonderful hospitality tendered our delegates to the meeting of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association held at that college.

Have you ever noticed that the men who have system in their work almost invariably appear to have the least
to do?

The showers which fell during the early part of the week were indeed a welcome change after the drought which
has prevailed since the opening of college. Only three more weeks before Thanksgiving.

HONOR WHERE HONOR IS DUE.

In the list of editorial departments and editors of the Davidsonian appears the name of one man who is listed
as the publicity editor. Not many of those who read the paper ever stop to glance at these names, and
of those who do, probably a very small number have an idea of the work done in this department. To
them it is merely a name without any very definite meaning.

This phase of the Davidsonian work was first instituted less than a year ago, with the purpose of placing Davidson
before the eye of the public. Not only were news items to be sent to the home papers of every
boy in college, giving a record of his activities here, but athletic news was to be furnished to the big
papers and weekly items of campus news were to be forwarded to other colleges for use in their respective publications.
Needless to say, the carrying out of these plans calls for an enormous amount of work by the publicity editor
and his assistants. That this work has been done well is attested by the fact that at the recent meeting
of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association a delegate from another institution remarked that he had read of Davidson in
papers from practically every state in the South this fall, and congratulated our paper for taking advantage of this opportunity
to secure free advertising. It is because we believe that the student body does not realize the work that is
being done here, and the tremendous amount of time and energy that is being expended for mere love of the
college that we call attention to this matter. The publicity editor is doing a work which is of inestimable value
to his college without even the satisfaction of any public recognition of his services. Let us give honor where honor
is due.

A LESSON FOR KNOCKERS.

Have you read the Open Forum articles in this paper for the past two weeks? If not, look up your
old papers and read them. In the first paper, some thoughtless student makes the accusation that the college is not
caring for the comfort of its students, his main grievance seeming to be that he is now allowed only two
lights to a room instead of three. In last week’s issue, this claim is clearly refuted in the giving of
the reason for this lower number of lights with a list of steps which the college has taken to better
the conditions of its students in recent years. The article speaks for itself and there is no need for us
to write further on that particular subject. The incident is typical of the actions of some few knockers on the
campus, however, and it is for that reason wemention it. These men seem never content unless they can find something
about the college to criticize, and they do so without stopping to investigate the real facts of the case. If
they would pause long enough to look into these matters more closely before speaking, there would be less knocking and
a better spirit on the campus.

Representatives from more than sixty colleges in the East met at Princeton University on October 26th to discuss the disarmament
question. The object of the conference was to create or rather stimulate discussion among the undergraduates of the various colleges
and to deepen the interest in the whole question of disarmament.

Possibility of including Harvard on the Tulane debating schedule was announced by the varsity debating team.—Tulane Hullabaloo.

Thirty-seven percent of the co-eds at Oglethorpe this year are red-headed. There are different shades of red from the “bull-fight”
to the reddish brown.—The Petrel.

For the first time in fifty years, the University of California has won the Crown of Athletic supremacy in track
and field sports. This is the first time a western school has attained this honor. Heretofore the big eastern institutions
always reigned supreme.—The Critograph.

STUDENTS HEAR APPEAL FOR PURE THOUGHT AND ACTION

On last Thursday evening, Dr. Seerly presented a message of purity of word, thought, and deed to the Davidson students.
Dr. Seerly was an officer in the A. E. F. and is now an expert psychologist and physiologist. He presented
some striking facts in regard to the effect of mind over body. The mind, as Dr. Seerly pointed out, is
closely connected to every part of the body through the nerve centers. These nerve centers, being exceedingly sensitive, are affected
directly by the condition of the mind. When these centers become excited by the unwholesome thoughts of the brain, they
naturally draw from the supply of energy stored in the body and thus weaken it as a whole.

Another phase of the lecture was the marriage relationship as it exists today and the history of that relationship. The
chief obstacle to the perfect marriage, he pointed out, is the double standard. He showed the utter folly of this
standard and urged his audience to set it aside. Chivalry as a whole was also discussed and higher ideals of
chivalry urged. Although the modern woman is not of the clinging vine type, she needs the respect and reverence of
man more than ever before in her history. So from the standpoint of the physical, mental, and moral welfare of
both man and woman, he urged “Purity of word, thought, and deed” as the code of every Davidson man.

Dr. Seerly addressed the Freshman class in Physiology and Hygiene at their regular meeting in the morning. He came to
Davidson under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A.

DIRECTORY OF OUR CHARLOTTE SUPPORTERS

Fellows, below is a classified list of our advertisers in Charlotte. Cut this out and take it to Charlotte with
you, patronize these friends and tell them you appreciate their support. You can help the paper a lot this way,
as well as getting good service in whatever line you have trading to do.

“Where to Dine”—Pollyanna Cafeteria, The Raleigh Cafe, The S. & W. Cafeteria.
Athletic Goods—Carolina Sporting Goods Co., Myers Hardware Co.
Clothing and Furnishings—Ed. Mellon’s, Belk Bros., The Tate-Brown Co., Browns, Inc., A. Pittle.
Show Houses—B. F. Keith’s, The Piedmont, The Imperial, The Broadway.
Music—Parker-Gardner, Andrews Music Store.
Drinks and Candies—Tryon Drug Co.
Flowers—Scholtz, the Florist.
Stationery and Office Supplies—Brockmann’s Book Co., Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., VanNess Art Shop.
Banks—Commercial National Bank.
Hotels—New Central, The Stonewall, The Mecklenburg.
Shoe Shop—Shu Fixery.

With Other Colleges

North Carolina College for Women—A club for the purpose of fostering interest and pride in the teaching profession and to
acquaint its members with educational problems and conditions in the state, has been formed at the North Carolina College for
Women. It is the purpose of the officers of the club to invite the foremost educational leaders of the state
to meet with them from time to time.

Elon—President W. A. Harper, upon request, has sent a letter to the New York World, endorsing the Disarmament Conference to
be held in Washington, beginning November 12th.

When in Charlotte visit Warren’s Service Barber Shop, Chamber Commerce Bldg.

THEATRE

Playing This Week
BILL LEICHT’S Teddy Bear Girls Co.
Musical Comedy and Class Vaudeville Features

NEXT WEEK
A NEW SHOW.
The Douglas Sisters
The Words & Music Co.
A NOVELTY SHOW

Boys, when in Charlotte don’t miss visiting the Piedmont Theatre.

Newspaper—The Charlotte Observer.
Observer B. R. Cates, Manager

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
33 South Church Street

When in Charlotte

ROADWAY
First National Pictures are Shown
Building Charlotte, N. C.
