THE ONE GAME WON
Freeman, If 2 2 0 0 0 0 2 3 1 1 0 0
AND TWO LOST
Hodgin, ab 0 0 0 2 0
Wrenn, c 3 0 0 1 0 1 0
Currie, p 1 0 0 0 0 0 8 0
Bill Miley opened the fifth with a hot
Miley, p 2 0 0 0 4 1
hit to right. But the Methodist minister in that garden flagged it down like a Blue Sunday cop and threw Bill out at first by ten yards. Later in the same frame Ratchford met one on the nose and it lit a rag for lands far distant. But the Fates sent along a gust of wind and the ball didn’t quite get over the wire on the right field fence. It bounced back almost into the infield’s hands and by some fast work Pee-Wee reached first safely. Pretty lucky. Freeman, pinch-hitting for Brown in the ninth, failed to strike out as he was supposed to do and sent a grass-cutter to left center that looked like three bases. But Freeman only got to first. Two innings before Carson had hit to the same spot for a three-bagger. Cassell, playing third for the first time, hobbled the first two chances he had but after that he settled down and played a steady game. By beautiful pegs he got two men at first with just about a frog’s hair to spare.

CITADEL AB R H PO A E
Simmons, 2b 4 3 2 2 3 0
Scovil, c 5 0 0 9 0 0
Kolock, cf 4 0 0 3 0 0
Rogers, 1b 4 0 1 10 0 1
Frost, 3b 4 0 0 3 1 0
O'Shaughnessy, ss 4 1 1 1 2 0
Exum, rf 4 0 0 4 3 1
Priggs, lf 4 1 2 2 0 0
Pollock, p 4 0 0 0 3 5
Total 37 3 10 27 12 0

Citadel 100 100 200 - 5
Davidson 224 200 000 020 - 2

Summary: Two-base hits—O'Shaughnessy, Priggs; Base on balls—Miley; Struck out—by Pollock 3; by Currie 4; Ump. - by Miley 3; Double play Cassell to Ratchford; Left on bases—Citadel 5; Davidson 2; First on errors—Citadel 2; Time 1:35; Umpire Pharr.

LIBRARY NEWS.
Among the new books recently added

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921.

ANNUAL WILL APPEAR IN ABOUT THREE WEEKS
The 1921 Quips and Cranks, which will undoubtedly be one of the most attractive issues ever seen on the hill, will be ready for delivery on or before the 10th of May. This book is composed of 308 pages and will be bound in stiff fabrikoid. The first section, 24 pages, is set up in sepia on cameo ivory paper and makes a splendid lead for the first part of the book. The Senior section is splendidly planned. Their pictures are paneled on Chamber's columns and the way the art work is done in this section is one of the many examples of high-toned artistry. The individual pictures for the Sophs also show up exceptionally well, and as this issue is the first to give so much space to the Sophs, the following issues will, in all probability, have like sections, for it adds much to the appearance of the book. The R. O. T. C. section, 16 pages, is a book in itself. The officers’ individual photos and the characteristic views of the companies contribute no small part toward making this one of the best sections of the book. Athletics also make up a significant part of the book, for this section contains photos of men who have made athletic history here at Davidson. The “Wildcat Weekly,” edited by Rod Shaw, is one of the most amusing, exciting, and interesting newspapers in existence. But besides all these, there are numerous advertisements mingled with the content. These advertisers are the friends of the men here and should by all means be patronized. In short, the management of this year’s annual has produced one of the best, if not the best, annual that any Senior class has ever produced. The men that have worked on this issue have given their time and their efforts to make this issue a success and the students should support them by supporting the annual and by patronizing the advertisers in it.

Capt. L. A. Wetherby, recently detailed to the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit to aid Major Hearn, is a native of the State of Washington. He is a graduate of the University of that State, in the Law Department. Soon after his graduation, he enlisted in the U. S. Army, where he has been serving the government in various capacities ever since. He spent most of his time during the war as an instructor in the camps on the Pacific Coast. Since the war, he has been detailed to the R. O. T. C. being with several units in the South, among them the Citadel, Birmingham High School, and Union University, located at Jackson, Tenn. Captain Wetherby and his wife are cordially welcomed to Davidson.

DAVIDSON RACKET WIELDERS WIN FROM LENOIR.
Cunningham, Ormond, Morris, and Gaither Make First Tennis Trip.
Last Wednesday the Davidson tennis team,Composed of Cunningham, Ormond, Morris, and Gaither, left for Hickory to play the Lenoir College tennis team. The matches were played Wednesday afternoon on the college courts amid beautiful surroundings (you know Lenoir is co-ed) and the Davidson team never played better. Six matches were played in all. First, the two doubles and then four singles. Although the Lenoir team put up a hard fight, Davidson took both of the doubles matches and all four singles. The team stayed at the college Wednesday night and came back to Davidson the next morning. All the team praised the good sportsmanship and the spirit of the Lenoir students.

D. I. W. De Armon and A. L. Currie spent the weekend in Charlotte. He wants your business. J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., writes insurance. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

The library has the popular novel “Main Street.” “The Fighting Corps” is the title of a very instructive book by Hall and Nordhoff, which has just been added. Other additions to the shelves are interesting books on missions and two volumes each of the following books: “The First World War” by Colonel Repington; “The Mediaeval Mind” by Taylor; and “Theodore Roosevelt and His Time” by Bishop.

TRINITY AB R H PO A E
McArthur, cf 2 0 0 0 0 0
Sykes, cf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Curson, c 2 0 0 2 3 0
Neal, 3b 2 0 0 2 3 0
Ormond, 2b 4 0 0 1 4 0
Cole, rf 4 1 2 0 1 0
Hathaway, lf 2 1 0 3 0 0
Johnson, 1b 4 1 1 13 1 0
Leake, ss 1 1 1 2 0 0
Mason, p 4 0 0 0 2 0
Totals 32 4 6 27 13 0

x Batted for Brown in the ninth.

Summary: Two-base hits - Simpson, Cole, Johnson; Three-base hits - Carson; Stolen bases - Cole, Hathaway; Sacrifice hits - Neal, Hathaway, Shepard; Double plays - Simpson, Lane and Johnson; Ormond, Neal and Johnson; Earned run - Trinity 1; Base on balls off Hunter 3; Struck out by Hunter 5, by Simpson 5; Time 1 hour 40 minutes; Umpires - Hack and Joyner.

Citadel Game

The Citadel, of Charleston, S.C., took the long end of a 5 to 2 with the Davidson nine last Saturday by bunching hits and by robbing their opponents of several runs by their spectacular fielding. The Wildcats pounded the offerings of Pollock for many long drives, but time after time the ball would fall into the hands of a waiting Bulldog at the foot of the fence. While Pollock was holding the Presbyterians to four lone hits, two of them in the eighth, the South Carolinians pounded Currie for several hits and two runs in the three innings he worked and continued their hitting rampage at the expense of Miley who finished the game. The Citadel holds a warm spot in the heart of every Davidson man because of their good sportsmanship and “do or die” spirit. The wearers of the blue and white showed themselves to be true gentlemen where with bared heads they stood while the band played “O Davidson.” Bunched hits netted the Citadel runs in the first, third, and fourth innings. Two more runs were added in the seventh on clean hits, combined with errors in the Davidson infield. Several Citadel runners were cut off at the plate during the game. The Presbyterians took a liking to Pollock's offerings in the eighth frame and only pretty fielding pulled him through. Cassell and Freeman singled. Hodgin bounced to Pollock and each runner moved up a peg when he was thrown out at first. Cassell scored on Wrenn’s roller and Freeman came home when Rogers threw wild to third. This ended the scoring for the Presbyterians.

DAVIDSON

Quips and Cranks has put out one of the best issues yet. You tell ’em, Camels, you’ve got the quality! You get to smoking Camels because you appreciate their fine, refreshing flavor! And, you like them better all the time because they never tire your taste! Camels quality makes Camels so appetizing, so continuously delightful. And, Camels expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos gives them that wonderful mellow mildness! And, man alive, how you will prefer Camels to either kind of tobacco smoked straight! You have only to compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at any price to know personally that Camels are a revelation! When you flash a deck of Camels you tell the world you’re smoke-wise! Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.