THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

Dr. Thornton Whaling supplied the pulpit of Dr. J. H. Taylor of the Central Church of Washington, D. C., on
the 21st and 28th of August. Dr. Whaling has had five pastorates: Cheraw, S. C.; Birmingham, Ala.; Lexington, Va.; Dallas,
Texas; and Norfolk, Va. On his first Sunday at Washington, he was greeted by former members of every one of
those five churches. Dr. Whaling will take up his duties this fall as Professor of Theology at the Presbyterian Theological
Seminary of Louisville, Ky.

Lacy McAllister, '20, is a deacon in the Church by the Side of the Road in his hometown, Greensboro, N.
C. Lacy was one of our most promising young alumni. He was prominent in athletics and president of the student
body his senior year, and shows promise of being equally as successful in life.

J. R. Boulware, '21, will leave soon to take up his duties as a professor in the Greenbrier Military Academy,
of Lewisburg, W. Va. L. G. M. Dunlap, '21, and R. L. Rogers, '21, are teaching in the Chamberlain-Hunt Academy,
Port Gibson, Miss. J. C. K. Brown, '21, has been traveling extensively in Europe this summer. He plans to visit
Davidson soon, at which time he will narrate his travels to Le Cercle Francais, the French circle of which he
was president last year.

Oscar M. Duggar, J. M. Boyd, and J. M. Gilmer, all ex-'22, will graduate at the University of Alabama this
year. William H. Neal, '17, is making good as assistant cashier in the Charlotte National Bank. D. S. Eppes, ex-'21,
is on the market at Goldsboro, N. C. P. G. Gourdin, of Kingstree, S. C., is convalescent from a severe
case of typhoid fever. He was a roommate of Dr. J. W. MacConnell while in college. J. Cassell, '21, is
teaching English at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Among the alumni here at the opening of college last week were: Dr. D. P. McGeachy, '96, of Decatur, Ga.;
J. Sam Guy, '05, who is professor of chemistry at Emory University; and C. M. Brown, 1900. J. R. Dunn,
'15, is a surgeon in Johns Hopkins Hospital this year. W. C. Fryson, '18, having graduated from Union Seminary this
spring, will attend Princeton this year for further study. Mr. S. A. Thompson, '04, is now running a boarding house
in Davidson. David V. Hudson, '17, is taking a medical course at Johns Hopkins this year. R. U. Wood, ex-'18,
re-entered college this session. R. B. Peters, Jr. '10, was on the hill last week with his brother who entered
as a freshman. C. A. Dunn, ex-'22, who wielded the baton so efficiently for the band, was on the hill
last week. He will study dentistry at the University of Pennsylvania this year. C. J. Matthews, '21, is a salesman
and manager of the Addressograph Company for the state of Florida, with headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla. The Addressograph Company is
fortunate in securing a man of such unusual business ability as C. J. W. I. Carr, ex-'23, is going to
Georgia Tech this fall.

FRESHMEN WELCOMED.
(Continued from page 1)

During the entire affair, the band rendered appropriate music, D. R. Freeman, of the class of '21, being back on
a visit and directing the band in the same old way that made the old men happy last year to
have such a band leader. The reception might be summed up in a few short words as a "howling" success.

CAMPUS SWARMS.
(Continued from page 1)

May this continue and may the time soon come when the Freshman can look upon any upperclassman as a friend
or a big brother to whom he can go when in trouble, and not as the man with the big
stick.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist:
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
Student Supplies
It will pay you to look my line over before buying anything injewelry, fountain pens, tennis goods, sweaters or stationery.
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.,

Gentlemen:

Please enter my subscription for The Davidsonian for term 1921-22.
I. I am a member of the Davidson Athletic Association. (Subscription check enclosed for $2.00).
II. I wish to subscribe to The Davidsonian for one year. (Subscription check enclosed for $2.50).

Signed
(Note: Make all checks payable to The Davidsonian)

RUSH YOUR SUBSCRIPTION.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
At the Powerhouse

ARROW
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

Agency for College Annuals
Expert designing & printing. We invite correspondence and through our Layout Department can submit ideas in the most effective manner.
No matter what the price, the purchaser is proud of the work. Workmanship coupled with rare business service guarantees entire
satisfaction.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. CAROLINA

With our Art Service, facilities, and experience, we are prepared to produce the Best in College Annuals. How well we
succeed is attested to by the character of our clientele and the unsolicited praise they favor us with when the
finished product is delivered. Below are two of the many expressions of our satisfied patrons:

May 27, 1921.
Mr. A. M. Gray
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company, Charlotte, N.C.

Dear Sir:
We want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the fine workmanship which you have put into “The
Edelweiss.” The enthusiastic reception of the Annual warrants the commendation of your workmen personally and the effective arrangement of the
engraving work shown and suggestions offered, especially in the planning of the border designs, page groupings, etc., through your art
department. We take great pleasure in recommending you to next year’s staff.

Sincerely yours,
HELEN JOHNSON, Editor-in-Chief.
HESSIE BOGER, Business Manager.

Raeford, N. C., Aug. 15, 1921.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company, Charlotte, N.C.

Dear Sir:
The art work, including all border designs, page groupings, etc., in Annuals produced by us, is the work of our
Art Department. We design, print, and bind the entire job in our own plant. We want to take this opportunity
to tell you how pleased we are with the Annual which you published for us. Not only are we pleased
with the excellent workmanship displayed in the book, but we are grateful to you for your personal interest, also for
your holding to your contract prices when we were unable, much to our regret, to fulfill our part. I am
sure that the Student Body will agree with me in saying that as far as Art Work is concerned, the
first number of “The White Heather” is far ahead of most College Annuals, and I shall take great pleasure in
recommending you to the Staff for next year.

Yours very truly,
MARY POOLE, Editor-in-Chief.

If interested in high-class Printing we will be pleased to show samples.

Anyone Can Make Promises But it takes ability to Fulfill Them
PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
Quality Printers
Charlotte, N.C.
