THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

Diamond Dust

Did you see—in the first game with Oak Ridge, the catch made by Shepard of Sizemore’s long high fly?
—More Pep—

Did you see—Ratchford jump about six feet up into the air and spear one that looked good for two bags.
—More Pep—

Did you see Crawford hit one good for a trip around to the hot corner and then forget that first base had to be touched on the way around.
—Wildcats—

The Presbyterian apple throwers (and chewers) have not been wielding the stick very effectively. This accounts for the absence of the batting averages in this issue. Watch for them next week.
—Wildcats Forever—

Fellows, put more pep, more volume, more enthusiasm, into the rooting and cheering. Don’t make the cheer leader wear himself out asking for pep. It helps the team to hear a big yell booming out over the field when there is a man on base. Help them play air-tight ball by backing them up.
—Don't forget the Wildkittens—

The first track meet comes this week, and we will then see what the Wildcat Varsity Track Team has always been noted for—speed, endurance,—and grit.
—It is an honor to be a Wildkitten—

The oval around the diamond has been put in good shape and this cinder-path will be the scene of some thrilling struggles this spring.
—Pep and More Pep—

The following is the schedule for this week’s games in “Tarheelia”:
April 1—N. C. State vs. Elon at Raleigh.
W. and L. vs. V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 2—Trinity vs. Wake Forest at Durham.
U.N. C. vs. U. Va. at Charlottesville.
April 4—Davidson vs. Wofford at Davidson.
Lenoir College vs. Wake Forest at W. F.
U.N. C. vs. W. and L. at Lexington.
April 5—Wofford vs. Trinity at Durham.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 6—Maryland State vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
—Back OUR Team—

MUCH NEEDED IMPROVEMENTS MADE AT ATHLETIC FIELD

Peanuts! popcorn! and cracker jacks! ice cold Coca-Cola! cigars! cigarettes! and chewing gum! Did you hear that? Wasn't it music to the ear? No longer will the ardent fan put a gravel in his mouth to keep his throat from closing up. He will drink a bottle of “pop” and yell louder. Then when the Wildcats are well lubricated and running to our hearts’ content we will add further to the pleasure by smoking a good cigar. Why should we care for expenses? We are helping out the Athletic Association which is supporting the team. Hats off to the managers of the Athletic Association. Those fellows think of everything for our pleasure. Of course you notice the wire around the bleachers. No longer is it necessary to wear a chest protector and a catcher’s mask while watching the game. We can now take the fair one out to watch a real exhibition of baseball and feel perfectly safe from all foul balls. With these improvements we can see every game in safety and comfort and devote all our energies to backing the team.

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Sarah Lingle and two friends, Miss Mary Shepherd Parker and Miss Elizabeth Parker, of Salem College, spent the Easter holidays with Miss Lingle’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle.

Misses Lois Barnette, Charlotte and Elizabeth Cranford, and Mary and Martha Hamilton, of the State Normal, spent the week-end with their parents.

Mrs. Lola Johnston visited friends in Winston during the Easter festivities there.

Professor and Mrs. Erwin passed the week-end with the former's sister in Graham, N.C.

Athletic News

BASKETBALL SEASON OPENED (Continued from page 1)

McGirt scored when McLaughlin went out Cassell to Barnette. Oak Ridge scored again in the seventh. Phillipe got a pop hit just out of Cassell’s reach, and Sizemore sacrificed him to second. He went to third on McGirt’s hit through short and hung up a counter when Wrenn dropped Miley’s throw of Hood’s bounder.

After two were gone in the first Crawford sent a rip-snorting, three-ply blow to deep right. With Shepard, Cassell and Wrenn just itching for a swat at the old apple, things looked ripe for a few tallies for the Wildcats. But Jim Black failed to see Pat touch first on his gallop around the hassocks and the lights went out for Davidson. But the smiling Irishman came right back in the seventh and started the old merry-go-round again. He sent a long, high fly to center that Rouse misjudged and when the crowd quit yelling long enough to come up for air, “Pat” was perched on the third station. fouled off to Hood, but Pat brought in a slice of the bacon when Sizemore let Cassell’s hot one get away from him. Two perfectly good base knocks by Shepard and Cassell were wasted in the fifth when Shepard was caught napping at first, and Cassell was left stranded at the half-way hut, when Wrenn thrice cut the ozone and Barnette saw three go by that looked good to Black. Shepard furnished the fielding feature of the game when he pulled Flowe's liner off his shoe-strings, a la Tyrus et Tris. Cop Johnston batted for Neal in the eighth and brought the crowd to its feet by sending one with whiskers on it through Flowe's legs. Cop claims it was a hit but the scorer couldn’t see it that way.

Box score:
Oak Ridge AB R H PO A E
Smith, 3b 4 0 2 0 2 1
Rouse, cf 3 0 0 2 0 1
Flowe, 2b 4 0 0 1 1 1
Morris, p 4 0 0 5 0 0
Phillipe, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Sizemore, ss 3 1 1 3 0 1
McGirt, 1b 3 1 1 9 0 0
Hood, c 3 0 0 2 1 0
McLaughlin, lf 3 0 0 2 1 0
Totals 31 3 5 27 10 4

Davidson: AB R H PO A E
Ratchford, 2b 4 0 0 1 4 0
Brown, rf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Crawford, cf 4 1 1 1 0 0
Shepard, lf 4 0 1 3 0 0
Cassell, 3b 3 0 1 1 2 0
Wrenn, c 3 0 0 4 1 1
Barnette, 1b 3 0 0 15 0 2
Neal, ss 2 0 0 0 2 1
Hodgin, ss 0 0 0 0 1 0
Miley, p 3 0 0 1 7 0
*Johnston 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 30 1 3 27 16 4
*Johnston batted for Neal in the eighth.

Score by innings: R H E
Oak Ridge 020000100 3 5 4
Davidson 000000100 1 3 4

Carolina Game

The University of North Carolina opened their baseball season successfully last Monday afternoon by defeating Davidson at Prince Albert Park, Winston-Salem, by a score of 7 to 3; Lowe of Carolina hitting a home run in the ninth inning with bases full. The contest was a pitcher’s battle from beginning to end, with both teams playing along pretty close together until the last part of the ninth when the unusual event happened. Davidson got under way in the second inning when Shepard placed the ball over the left field fence for the first home run of the game. Carolina came to bat and Shirley hit to third and was safe on an error; he was sacrificed to second and scored with Spruill when the latter hitA hot grounder to center, the ball slipping through Crawford's hands and rolling to the fence. Carolina scored again in the fourth when Lewellyn singled to center field and then came home on a two-base hit to right center by Spruill, who was thrown out at second when attempting to steal. Davidson netted her second point in the sixth frame by a hit over second base by Ratchford, followed by a hit over the third baseman’s head by Brown, after which Cassell bunted out at first. Crawford walked; Wrenn hit to third and Ratchford came home when the first baseman fumbled the ball, dropping a throw. Brown was thrown out when trying to score the third run. In the eighth, Davidson scored another point when Cassell succeeded in hiding the ball from the umpire by a hit which resulted in the ball’s disappearance in a hole in the fence. This point tied the score at 3 and 3. Crawford went out by a fly to center field and Wrenn by a foul fly. The real fireworks began for Carolina in the ninth. Shepard received a grounder and threw the first man out. The next man up walked. Lewellyn advanced Shirley to second when hit on the arm. These two were advanced by Spruill’s fly to center field. Lowe came to the bat with the bases full and after having two balls and one strike called, hit the ball squarely and it flew over the left field fence, netting a home run for him and scoring the other three men. The game was a pitchers’ battle from beginning to end. Davidson proved herself superior in the fielding, and both sides succeeded in getting seven hits to their credit. Shepard pitched a fine game. Wrenn was there with a peg to second every time a steal was attempted. Freeman made two hits. For Carolina, Spruill led in the hitting, and although a little wild at times, Wilson pitched a good game. His support was fine at most stages of the game.

Box score:
Davidson: AB R H PO A E
Ratchford, 2b .......... 4 0 1 5 4 0
Brown, rf ............... 3 0 2 0 1 0
Cassell, ss .............. 4 1 1 5 3 0
Crawford, cf .......... 3 0 0 0 1 0
Wrenn, c ............... 4 0 0 9 4 0
Shepard, p ............. 4 1 1 0 6 0
Freeman, lf ........... 4 0 2 0 0 0
Barnett, 1b ............ 4 0 0 12 0 0
Neal, 3b ................. 4 0 0 0 1 2
Totals .................. 34 3 7 26 18 2

Carolina: AB R H PO A E
McDonald, ss .......... 4 0 0 2 2 0
McLean, 2b ............ 3 0 0 3 3 2
Morris, 3b .............. 4 0 0 2 0 1
Shirley, cf .............. 4 2 1 1 0 0
Lewellyn, rf ........... 2 2 1 0 0 0
Spruill, 1b .............. 4 1 3 10 0 1
Lowe, lf .................. 4 1 1 2 0 0
Morris, c ............... 3 0 0 7 5 0
Wilson, p ............... 3 0 1 0 4 2
Totals .................. 28 3 7 27 14 6

Score by innings: R H E
Davidson .......... 010001010 3 7 2
Carolina ........... 020100004 7 7 6

Summary: Struck out by Shepard, 3; by Wilson, 6. Home runs: Shepard, Cassell, Lowe. Base on balls off Shepard, 2; off Wilson, 2. Umpires: Heck (Columbia); Anderson (Davidson).

SOCIETIES DEBATE PLAN OF WORLD DISARMAMENT
Discussions by More Than Usual Spirit.

Phi Society
The “headliner” of the Phi meeting last Thursday night was a debate on the subject, “Resolved that the plan for disarmament suggested by Senator Borah should be adopted.” The participants were Taylor, Brown, R. H., and Wool on the affirmative, and Brown, E. D., Hill, and Query on the negative. Two main points formed the basis of the affirmative argument: First, that immediate disarmament is necessary; second, that it is the duty of England, Japan, and the United States to follow Borah’s plan in doing this. The impossibility, the impracticability, and the unwisdom of disarmament according to Senator Borah’s plan composed the negative’s contentions. However, the affirmative took the decision by a two to one vote of the judges. An extemporaneous debate on the subject, “Resolved, that intercollegiate debaters should be permitted to wear the ‘D’,” was staged by Robertson and Fricker; the affirmative won. D. R. Freeman closed the literary program with an oration of unusual merit on “Happiness.”

Eu Society
The Eu Society held its regular meeting last Saturday night, undisturbed for one time by the movies. The question for debate was, “Resolved, That Senator Borah’s plan for disarmament should be adopted.” This question, which was very appropriate, was upheld by the following men: affirmative, Elkins, Lowry, and Team; negative, James McCutchen and McCaskill. The debate, taken as a whole, was full of “pep” and much interest was manifested in it. As the appointed orator for the evening was absent, it was suggested that P. D. Miller take his place, but he refrained from doing so on account of bashfulness. The declamation for the evening was presented by D. B. Walthall. His subject was, “The Race Problem,” by Henry W. Grady. The meeting was then turned into a business session. A committee was appointed to look into the matter of repairing and making some changes in the hall. After a few announcements, the society was adjourned.

Eumenean Society
April 3—Regular Debate
Affirmative: Negative:
W. P. Cummings R. R. McIlwaine
G. E. Weeks E. E. Houghton
H. M. Morris D. W. Bethea
J. C. Ives R. H. Morris
Declamation: S. C. Fain
Oration: J. Sprunt

Phi Society
March 31—Regular Debate
Affirmative: Negative:
R. T. Kimzey R. H. Brown
W. Z. Bradford P. C. Henderson
D. R. Freeman J. C. Wool
Extemporaneous Debate:
J. F. Clark T. A. Freeman
Declamation: F. S. Johnson
Oration: J. R. Jones

LITERARY SOCIETIES OFFER MEDALS IN ANNUAL ESSAY CONTESTS
Each of the Davidson Literary Societies presents a medal for the best essay submitted in the annual Eu and Phi contests. The winning of an essay medal has always been considered one of the greatest honors a student can obtain, and in consequence, much rivalry has attended these contests. April the fifteenth is announced as the closing date of the Eumenean Essay Contest this year. It is hoped that many men will try for the medal as the entrance of an essay means a society credit. That every man has a chance is shown by the fact that a freshman won this medal last year.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own an auto or team or can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52 years in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department C, Winona, Minnesota.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)
Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. Our gloves run from $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to $8.50 each. Give us your order.
5 W. Fourth St. Phone 3248