The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
H. A. D. S. HARDY

Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE

Forum Editor
W. F. CURRY

Campus Editor
H. H. SMITH

Asst. Managing Editor
T. H. BAILEY, JR.

Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. F. SPENCE

Assignment Editor
J. S. CURRY

Social Editor
A. C. OGDE

Athletic Editor
A. C. SUMMERS

Literary Editor
W. J. COOPER

Alumni Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN

Publicity Editor
E. MAUZE

Exchange Editor
G. MORRIS

REPORTERS:
R. BITZER, R. BRADFORD, W. Z. BROWN, C. V. BROWN, W. P. H. W., R. FULLER, C. D. JONES, R.
L. WALTHALL, D. B. ELKINS, L. D. KNOX, W. T. ELLIOTT, T. A. LACY, A. C. WILDMAN, C. F. WILDMAN

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL
Business Manager

L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK, and W. S. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES
Circulation Manager

Assistants in Circulation Department:
D. TULLER, S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Professor Erwin’s announcement that there is to be another Wildcat Minstrel Show this year was welcome news to the students.
This is an event which we cannot afford to miss.

In another part of this week’s issue there appears a list of The Davidsonian’s advertisers in Charlotte. Read it carefully
and support these friends when you are in town Saturday, rather than go to those who refused to advertise with
us on the ground that they would get the trade anyhow.

Our wireless station had hard luck in receiving the report of the Georgia Tech game Saturday. The only thing which
reached the local operator was the zero in Davidson’s score. It is hoped that the station will be in good
order and rendering efficient service within a few days, however.

SINGING AT CHAPEL

For many years it was the custom for the student body to join in the singing of hymns at the
morning prayer service. So little interest was manifested in this part of the chapel exercises, however, that it was finally
discontinued, and for the past two years the service has consisted merely of a scripture reading and a prayer. This
fall the Y. M. C. A. has interested itself in the matter, and has secured the consent of the faculty
to make one more trial of the old plan. The reason for this action lies in the belief which has
become fixed in the minds of some, that something should be done to make these exercises a more vital factor
in the life of the campus. It is hard for a man to feel that he is engaging in worship
unless he is taking an actual part in the program. Singing offers this opportunity for every man on the campus.

At a recent meeting the student body decided by a majority vote that it wished to sing hymns at chapel.
This week the plan is being put to its first real test. By its success in these few days will
largely be determined whether the practice is to be continued or to be abandoned as not worth the while. If
the larger part of the student body is not willing to sing there can be little use in having only
a faithful few to join in the hymns. Let every member of the student body give a little earnest thought
to the question of whether or not this exercise will be worth while to the student body and to himself,
and act accordingly.

ON TO CHARLOTTE

Last Saturday’s defeat came as a severe blow to every Davidson supporter. The Wildcats encountered a football team in the
Golden Tornado of Georgia Tech, which has few if any superiors in the United States, and they were admittedly outclassed.
In spite of this fact, however, they put up a stubborn and plucky fight and only Coach Alexander’s wealth of
reserve material enabled his machine to run up such a high score in the latter part of the game. The
fighting spirit of the Wildcat was never better shown than when in the first half Coach Grey’s men held the
Tornado for four downs on their own one-yard line. There is not a man in the student body who does
not realize this, and the fact that we are solidly behind our team was demonstrated by the reception tendered it
when it arrived Monday morning.

On next Saturday Davidson will meet an opponent of much nearer her own strength. Wake Forest is coming to Charlotte
with what is reported to be the strongest team in her history and the fixed determination of defeating her ancient
rival. If the Wildcats are victorious in this contest they will have taken a long step toward wiping out the
memory of her bitter experience on Grant Field, and annexing the football honors of North Carolina. If she comes off
second best she has a great handicap to fight against in the remainder of her games this season. The team
is determined that Saturday’s game shall not be a defeat. In view of this fact there is but one step
for the student body to take. Let every man who can beg or borrow the money board the special for
Charlotte Saturday morning, and be there to yell until the last minute of the game that afternoon. We know ourselves
that Davidson’s fighting spirit is not dead. If Charlotte does not know it after Saturday we will have only ourselves
to blame.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921.

Open Forum

On to Charlotte. We will ride Wake Forest on the rail. Fellows, let’s turn out five hundred strong on Saturday
and show the old team that we are back of them heart and soul. Make the old bleachers roar and
show that old D. C. is still there with her characteristic old “pep.” We know that we have a good
team, fellows, and they are going to fight like Wild Cats next Saturday, but they need just the support that
five hundred lungs can give them from the sidelines. Let’s let Charlotte know, too, that D. C. has come to
town.

This will be a good opportunity to show the business men of Charlotte that we deserve their support. Look over
the ads in the Davidsonian and patronize those who patronize us. You will want a couple of meals there. Go
to the cafeterias and restaurants which advertise in our paper. You will want to see the shows that patronize the
Davidsonian. You will want to make some clothing purchases, go to the clothier who has been supporting our paper. Let
them know where you're from and that it pays to advertise in the Davidsonian. There is a business depression all
over the country now. Business men are cutting out all advertising that is not strictly essential, that does not bring
returns on their investment. Let’s show our advertisers a paying investment, that it is one of their essentials. Let’s back
those who are backing us.

ANTIQUATED

A few days ago a student carefully worked out his schedule so that he could get the required number of
credits to enter a standard school of medicine, but he only needed a half year’s credit in chemistry to fill
out the requirements for the medical school, but he wasalso ambitious to get a degree from Davidson with the result
that now he must take a chemistry course that he won’t need at all in medical school, but which he
is compelled to take here because only half a year’s work will count towards a degree here. This situation would
not be so bad if we were not entirely alone in our old-fashioned ideas about using the out-of-date ticket system.
It seems that common sense would show us that the semester hour system with credits for the individual terms towards
a degree should be given. The current system is old-fashioned, inconvenient, and a time loser for those men intending to
go to other institutions. Does it not stand to reason that when all the colleges throughout the country have abandoned
the ticket system for the semester hour system, we could afford to adopt a common sense method?

Scribor.

D.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS FIVE ADDITIONAL MEMBERS

On Friday night at the regular weekly meeting, the Reporters’ Club elected five new men into the club. The following
were chosen: R. R. Jones, W. I. Knox, R. H. Smith, C. V. Brown, and L. D. Elkins. These men
were recommended by the staff as doing exceptionally good work. The object of the Reporters’ Club is to improve the
quality of The Davidsonian as much as possible by discussion and criticism of the articles in the paper. In this
way, the work of the reporters is improved. The articles are criticized with reference to grammar, rhetoric, length, news, and
other such points. Each year, seven men, members of the club, are awarded a Golden Quill for their work in
the club. These men are selected by the managing editor and the president of the Reporters’ Club. They are selected
upon the quality and quantity of work done for The Davidsonian as well as the length of time they have
been in service, and with the proviso that there are not more than ten wearers of the quill in college
at one time. Those men are chosen who have done the best work from all viewpoints. The quills are awarded
at Junior Speaking. The club intends to have a feed in the near future, though no definite time has been
decided upon.

D.

MIMIR SOCIETY

(Continued from page 1)

Students and faculty of Davidson College. Every student who has attained distinction in scholarship by averaging as much as 93
for three consecutive years is eligible for membership. The society is again petitioning the Phi Beta Kappa and has high
hopes of being made a chapter of that fraternity. This would be both a distinction and an honor to Davidson.

D.

A missionary pageant was given by the Epworth League Sunday night. The different counties were represented by girls wearing the
native costumes. Music was a special feature of the program.

“Where Pollyanna Cafeteria The Raleigh Cafe The S. & W. Cafeteria Carolina Sporting Goods Co. Myers Hardware Co. Belk Bros.
Co The Piedmont The Imperial

DIRECTORY OF OUR CHARLOTTE SUPPORTERS.

Fellows, below is a classified list of our advertisers in Charlotte. Cut this out and take it to Charlotte with
you, patronize these friends and tell them you appreciate their support. You can help the paper a lot this way,
as well as getting good service in whatever line you have trading to do.

Athletic Goods
Carolina Sporting Goods Co. 5 W. Fourth St.

Clothing and Furnishings
Ed Mellon Co. 18 S. Tryon St.
Belk Bros. Co. 22 N. Tryon St.

Drugs
Tryon Drug Co. 200 N. Tryon St.

Flowers
Scholtz 8 N. Tryon St.

Stationery and Office Supplies
Pound & Moore Co. 205 S. Tryon St.
Brockmann’s Book Co. 210 S. Tryon St.
Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Garland Court

Banks
Commercial National Bank South Tryon
Independence Trust Co. On the Square

Hotels
Selwyn Hotel 7 S. Tryon St.
Stonewall Hotel At the Station
Mecklenburg Hotel At the Station

Shoe Shop
Shu Fixery 223 W. Trade St.

Places for You to Dine
New Central Hotel 20 W. Trade St.
Raleigh Cafe 20 W. Trade St.
S. & W. Cafeteria 20 N. Tryon St.
Pollyanna Cafeteria 38 S. Tryon St.
Imperial 16 W. Trade St.
Piedmont 213 N. Tryon St.

This present ticket system is out of date, old-fashioned, inconvenient, and a time loser for those men intending to go
to other institutions. Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Game Between Elon and Guilford For Armistice Day.

Owing to numerous requests received from various sources for a football game to be played in Greensboro this fall, the
athletic committee has arranged a second game with Guilford College to be staged on Armistice Day at Cone Park. The
regular annual game between Elon and Guilford will be played at Elon on Thanksgiving. Heretofore, only one game has been
played between the teams during the season, but the outside pressure brought to bear upon those in charge of athletics
in the college, for a Greensboro game, made it necessary to arrange a second game.

Over the College Boy’s Head.

Oh, I've witnessed the ruins of Egypt And the scraps of a pulverized Rome, And the delaceration and cruel vitiation
Of cities abroad and at home; I’ve gazed on extinguished Pompeii And the stubble that once was called Troy, But
no ruin, by heck, can equal the wreck Of the hat of a gay college boy.

For a lid to be truly collegiate Must have wrinkles and grooves and a tear, And unless it is creasy
and sloppy and greasy It’s not at all decent to wear.

The havocs of fire I’ve regarded; The ravages wrought by the war; The mire and the mud in the wake
of a flood, And a thousand catastrophes more.

Every eyesore on earth I’ve discovered, Distortions that mar and alloy, But they never can dare to hope to compare
With the fez of a gay college boy.

Oh, Youth, if you call my line hokum, And underrate what I have said Regarding your hat, then well I
knew that It’s certainly over your head!

D —Jacy Bee.

Classification.

If a fellow tries to kiss a girl and gets away with it, he is a man. If he tries
and doesn’t get away with it, he is a brute. If he doesn’t try but would get away with it
if he did try, he is a coward. If he doesn’t try and wouldn’t get away with it if he
did try, he is a wise man.

To The Rollins Sandspur of Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla., will likely go the honor of having been the first
member admitted to the Southern Intercollegiate Newspaper Association since its organization last spring. The Rollins Sandspur’s application and check have
been received and its subscribing to the constitution is anticipated any day, after which the “vote by mail” will be
taken on the application.

—Richmond Collegian.

D.

The Penn State grapplers took all seven matches from the University of Pennsylvania wrestling team last Saturday night. Six victories
were the result of falls and the other was won on the judges’ decision.

D.

VOLUNTEERS HEAR HAROLD MOSS AND LUTHER BURNEY

The Volunteer Band met in the church at ten o’clock Sunday morning with 18 present. The meeting was opened by
singing a hymn, which was followed by a prayer by Ed. Cunningham. The leader, Harold Moss, then made an interesting
talk. After this, L. P. Burney spoke on the Educational System in heathen countries, in which some striking facts were
presented as to the great need of teachers in foreign fields. A letter was also read from Mr. Bedinger, a
missionary in Africa, which stated that a dentist was much needed in his field. Business was then taken up. It
was announced that the Volunteer Band would have a feed Tuesday night. Important plans were laid for the work throughout
the year.
