EVERYBODY SPEAKS AT DAVIDSON! THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Go Get ’Em, Wildcats! Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., OCTOBER 6, 1921. No. 5

Mission Slides Shown Sunday Evening
Ham and Billie Present Views of World’s Needs in Striking Way.

At the “Y” service last Sunday evening, George Bellingrath, ’18, delivered a most instructive and impressive illustrated lecture concerning the
crying needs of the heathen world for the application of the teachings and principles of Jesus Christ. “Billie” first gave
a short talk on “What Constitutes a Call to the Ministry?” He said that Moses, Paul, and the other great
Bible characters had been called by God in some miraculous way, but now a man who sees the need of
a sin-stricken world, and is ready and willing to help spread the Gospel of Christ, has received the call. He
also stated that the whole world is lost in sin and that the only remedy lies in the Bible. Reading
from the first chapter of Acts, he stressed that part of the eighth verse which says, “And ye shall be
witnesses unto me,” adding that a minister was a witness for Christ.

In the stereopticon views which followed, the conditions existing in several heathen countries, and some very striking facts concerning them
were shown. That two-thirds of the human race is unchristianized is a condition that very few have ever considered. The
pictures illustrated the evil effects of the Catholic religion on South America and how Christ is the only hope for
the people. From South America, the setting was shifted to Asia and the outlying islands. The pictures showed how the
heathen crowds, in their ignorance, had flocked to the temple to find relief in gods of wood and stone, when
there was none to be had. Thirty years from now there will be one hundred million more people in China
than there are now. Many are at this time living on bark and leaves. What will it be then?

The speaker informed the audience that there were in India alone one thousand and ninety-seven languages. In New York, Bibles
printed in sixty different languages are used. If Christ had started visiting the villages of India while He was here,
and had visited one village every day down to the present time, He would still have thirty thousand villages to
visit. The gold which lines a certain Hindu tomb shown is worth more than all the money which the Protestant
churches of our country have given to the missionary cause. Bellingrath stated that northern Africa has been almost covered by
the Mohammedan religion, because in the early days there was a division in the Christian Church there. He also stated
that from the Mohammedan Seminary at Cairo, Egypt, ten thousand men graduated every year as missionaries of that faith; while
at the Union Theological Seminary, the largest Presbyterian seminary in the South, there are only one hundred men, and that
only one of every seventy-six ministers goes to the foreign field.

The “Song of the Continent” was then sung from the screen. After this, Mr. Bellingrath closed the meeting with a
word of prayer. E. H. Hamilton, ’17, operated the machine in a very efficient manner.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HAS FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held its first meeting of the year Tuesday night, September 27th, in their new
hall. Members present were (Continued on page 4)

EL CLUB ESPANOL PRESENTA UNA IDEA NUEVA Y NOVELA
Debajo el eficaz direccion del señor profesor Fleagle una organizacion nueva conocido por el nombre del Club Espanol ha sido
formado. A la primera reunión la cual se congrega en el cuarto de Kappa Alpha en la noche del lunes
pasado, los siguientes funcionarios eran elegidos: Presidente, W. M. Cox. Vice-Presidente—R. L. Price. Secretario, W. M. Héston. Tesorero, K. T.
McCrary. Esta sociedad tendrá por objeto el facilitar el uso del idioma español, y el cultivar un gusto para la
literatura de los países españoles.

Fellows, in case you can’t get the drift of the foregoing—it only means that a Spanish club has been formed.
You will hear more about it later.

Wildkittens Pile Up 31-0 Score Against Prep Team
Scrubs Wallop Charlotte University School Men.

The Davidson Wildkittens returned from Charlotte with the scalp of the Charlotte University School in their possession. They romped away
with the “prep” school boys to the merry tune of 31 to 0, and the Presbyterian goal was never in
danger, while their backs ran wild. The Kittens opened up with the usual Red and Black fight, and completely swept
the Charlotte lads off their feet in the first half, scoring four touchdowns in this period. The University School boys
came back with lots of pep in the last half, and held the collegians to one lone touchdown, although the
Scrubs’ machine swept down the field time and time again by pretty end runs and line plunges. Coach McFadden's Scrubs
looked good in their first encounter and are going to give any high school team in the state a mighty
tough fight. Brown and DeArmon ran wild and could be depended on to make first down at any time; the
former tore off 15 yards around end many times, while the latter registered three touchdowns for the Collegians. Moore and
Boggs also showed up well, while Crawford and Overton did good work for the Scrubs. The whole Davidson line put
up a game fight and very few yards were the losers able to gain through the stone wall. C. Miller
was the star of the Charlotte aggregation, making several good gains. The line-up and summary:

Davidson. Position. C. U. S.
Richard (C) LT. F. Austin
McLaughlin LG. Horne
Summers C. Hasting
Alexander RG. Elliott
Adams RT. Suttle
Knight RE. Erwin
Phillips QB. Miller
Brown LH. Beach
DeArmon RH. Miller (C)
Moore FB. W. Austin
Boggs FB. Withers

Time of periods: 15 minutes. Substitutions: For D. C., Crawford for Brown, Overton for Moore, McLaurin for Boggs, Regen for
Knight, Hodgin for Alexander, Grey for Adams. Officials: Jackson, referee; Crayton, umpire; Carr, headlinesman.

SHEARER HALL SCENE OF ROLLICKING PEP MEETING
From the first “Ray-ray-ray—rah-rah—Wildcats—Wildcats—Wildcats,” to the last echo of “Old P. C., she ain’t what she (Continued on page 4)

Church Members Witness Pictures on Child Life
Evening Church Service Held in Shearer Hall.

The regular Sunday evening church service was conducted last Sunday by Mr. E. H. Hamilton, ’17. The lecture, which was
well illustrated by stereopticon pictures shown by Mr. Bellingrath, was given in Shearer Hall because of the electric current in
the church being unsuited to the picture machine. In addition to a large number of town people, about one-half of
the student body was present.

Mr. Hamilton, using as his text “The Children of the World,” selected Matt. 18:5 as the key verse, “Whoso shall
receive one such little child in my name receiveth me.” Among the many startling facts brought out were the following:
Only two per cent of the students of the universities of South America are Christians. In Japan only one person
out of every 522 is a Christian. In China 93 per cent of the people can neither read nor write.
As a result of the Hindoo influence in India, which teaches that girls should marry under 12 years of age,
there are 300,000 wives under five years of age, 2,000,000 between five and ten, and 6,500,000 between ten and fifteen.
Unless we send the Bread of Life to the 90,000,000 children under ten years of age in India, in only
a few years this vast number of souls will become blighted by Hindooism and heathenism. In the world there are
eighty million Mohammedan children. The bloom of youth has no chance to progress either in this world or in the
world to come unless we send them the Gospel. We should help fulfill Christ's last command.in three ways: First: Pray
ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that He will send forth laborers into His harvest. Second: Dedicate your children
to the service of God. Third: Invest your life where it will count for the most. Say, “Here am I,
send me.” Probably the most impressive part of the service was the singing of “From Greenland’s Icy Mountains,” and “I
Gave My Life for Thee." As they were sung, appealing pictures were shown, which fitted in well with the words
of the songs. In closing the service, a plea was made for the reconsecration of lives to Christ in the
service in which each life can best serve Him, in answer to which practically the whole audience arose.

OUTLOOK BRIGHT FOR GOOD YEAR

The Dramatic Club is starting off with prospects for the best year it has ever had, and, with Professor Erwin
directing, it looks forward to a bright and rosy future. It starts off its program for the year with a
minstrel on November 19th, which ought to be nifty, judging from the performance of last year. Professor Erwin has been
working on some new ideas and has several novelties on the string. Clyburne is on the lookout for all the
dancing artists on the Hill, and the Freshman class ought to be able to fill the places of the men
who graduated last year. On the musical side, Buchanan and McGeachy are working hard on some snappy music and songs.
There is some real good talent in the Freshman class that only needs to be brought out. A delegation is
going to Charlotte this week to watch the Al. G. Field’s Minstrels, get some new ideas from them.

BLUE RIDGE DELEGATES TO SPEAK AT YMCA ON SUNDAY

The Davidson delegates to Blue Ridge will discuss the aims and purposes of that conference before the Y. M. C.
A. next Sunday night. The purpose of this meeting will be not so much to give a picture of the
organization and schedule of the conference, as to show the need for some place where college men may meet each
other and exchange ideas, and where they may receive the inspiration of meeting and hearing the great religious leaders of
the country. The following Sunday, the Y. M. C. A. hopes to secure Dr. Sykes, the president of Coker College.
Dr. Sykes played football four years at Wake Forest and will probably come up to see the Wake Forest game.

Basketball Enthusiasts Prepare For Class Games

Sixty Men Struggling for Positions on Class Teams.

The prospects for class basketball are great. Everyone on the campus is taking a great deal of interest in it,
and all things seem to point to a fine season for interclass basketball. More interest is displayed in class basketball
than any other class athletics on the Hill. The Fresh have about 30 men out and seem to be going
after class honors in earnest. Coach Pat Crawford has not been able to thin them down enough to tell just
what kind of material is out, but it is rumored that they have some fast material. The Soph team has
shown very little promise so far, but may develop into a good squad under the direction of Manager Speck McConnell.
The following men are out: McConnell, Elkins, McBryde, McPherson, Bradford, Currie, Beaver, White, Ed. Brown, Charnley. The prospects for the
Junior team are very good. Most of their last year’s men will be seen on the squad as well as
some new material. George Mauze is the manager as well as a tower of strength on the floor. The following
men are out for the team: Mauze, Houghton, Brake, Bostick, Toney, Bradley, Covington, Calhoun, Roberts, and Elliott. According to advance
dope, it would seem that the Seniors are going to win the flag for the third consecutive year, having lost
the championship by only two points their Fresh year. All of last year’s team is back with the exception of
Luke Erwin, who is starring on the gridiron. Manager Price will doubtless substitute Freeman for Erwin on guard. Shorty Cornelson
will jump center, Capt. Ormand and Ray Doubles will be the forwards. Others out for the team are: Neal, Brown,
and McCrary. The schedule is as follows:

Sophs vs. Fresh, October 7th.
Seniors vs. Juniors, October 11th.
Seniors vs. Fresh, October 14th.
Juniors vs. Sophs, October 18th.
Juniors vs. Fresh, October 21st.
Seniors vs. Sophs, October 25th.
Sophs vs. Fresh, October 28th.
Seniors vs. Juniors, November 1st.
Seniors vs. Fresh, November 4th.
Juniors vs. Sophs, November 8th.
Juniors vs. Fresh, November 11th.
Seniors vs. Sophs, November 15th.

It will be noticed that the first game is Friday night between the Sophs and Fresh. Both classes should turn
out en masse to support their teams.

Davidson Eleven Defeats Presbyterian College 7-0

Bluestockings Fight Gamely With Their Backs to Wall.

By completely outclassing their opponents at every stage of the game, Davidson easily defeated Presbyterian College last Friday 7 to
0. The Wildcats outweighed their kinsmen and Coach Grey’s Flying Squadron showed their superiority early in the game. The Red
and Black Machine got the jump on their opponents at the start, but the Blue Stockings put up their accustomed
plucky fight. Moore scored the touchdown late in the third quarter. Hiendman fumbled on his own 20-yard line and Brice
recovered the ball. An eleven-yard pass and several line plays put the ball on the 2-yard line. Moore then carried
the oval across on an end run. Schenck kicked goal. Moore and Schenck were the individual stars for Davidson. Again
and again Spratt, the midget back, tore off long gains around the ends. He gained a total of 94 yards
while he was in the game. Schenck also put up a limelight performance. He was on the receiving end of
seven passes that gained a total of 76 yards. He was also a mainstay on defense. On the six attempted
runs around his end, P. C. lost five yards. Three times they were turned back without a gain, once they
lost one yard, and twice they lost two yards. The Clinton lads did not get within hailing distance of the
Davidson goal line. Their nearest advance to the Wildcat base of operations with the ball in their possession was to
their own 47-yard line. Their only first down was a gift, resulting from a Davidson penalty. The Wildcats made first
down 12 times. The Big Red team was twice within reach of the South Carolinians’ goal line, but both times
forward passes were grounded in the end zone. Ervin kicked off for P. C. at the opening, and after failing
to gain in three attempts on the line, Durant punted. The Wildcats quickly made three first downs, a 19-yard pass
to Schenck featuring, but two 15-yard penalties slowed them up. P. C. held on their 21-yard line and Durant punted
out of danger. Just before the quarter ended, Moore stepped around right end for fifteen yards. Again failing in a
running attack, Durant attempted to punt. Clark blocked it and Hunter recovered the ball. Again the Red and Black machine
started down the field but again P. C. held on.

CALENDAR.

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi Society.
Thursday—7:30 p.m., Eu. Society.
Friday—10 p.m., Reporters’ Club.
Saturday—2:15 p.m., Re-examinations.
Saturday—3:30 p.m., Wildcats invade Tech on Grant Field.
Saturday—7:30 p.m., Movies.
Sunday—10 a.m., Volunteer Band.
Sunday—1:15 p.m., C. E. Training Class.
Sunday—3:30 p.m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
Sunday—6:15 p.m., “Y” Conference Meeting.
Monday—7:00 p.m., Leaders’ Bible Class.
Monday—7:15 p.m., Phi. Jr. Society.
Monday—7:30 p.m., Eu. Jr. Society.
Wednesday—9 p.m., Bible Classes.

ALL BEHIND YOU, TEAM!
