THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

The team leaves Friday afternoon at six o'clock from White’s Drug store. Give them a big send-off, gang. To win
the Virginia game means a whole lot to the college. It would give us a prestige and the team a
reputation that could be gained in no other way. —Fight ’Em Wildcats—

With Bradley and Cunningham back, the prospects for a good year on the tennis courts are bright. Besides these two
racquet artists, there is a host of Freshmen who look like they might develop into good players. —Wildcats—

The following looks like the lineup that will start the Virginia game:
L. E. Black.
L. T. Davis.
L. G. Hamer.
C. Brice.
R. G. Lafar.
R. T. Clark.
R. E. Schenck.
Q. B. Bethea.
R. H. B. McAlister.
L. H. B. Moore.
F. B. Long.
—Wildcats—

September 24th marks the general opening of the gridiron season all over the country. Following are the principal games in
the South:
Alabama vs. Howard.
Ga. Tech vs. Wake Forest at Atlanta.
Furman vs. Erskine.
Clemson vs. N. C. U. at Charlotte.
N. C. State vs. Randolph-Macon.
V. M. I. vs. Roanoke.
V. P. I. vs. Hampden-Sidney.
—We Want P. C.—

Too much cannot be said in appreciation of the work Pitt Douglas and Jim Black have been doing in rounding
the squad into shape. They have ably helped Coach Grey in his efforts to produce a smooth-running and efficient eleven.
—Wildcats—

The largest football squad in the history of football at Davidson reported for practice. Approximately one-sixth of the student body
have been trying for one of the coveted jobs on the first eleven. Sixteen percent are out but only two
and two-tenths percent will be on the team. —On To Va—

WILDKITTENS BEGIN PRACTICE FOR GAMES WITH HIGH SCHOOLS

The Wildkittens started their regular football practice last week, using the lower part of the campus as their gridiron. Much
interest is being displayed by both students and players; everyone is looking forward to a big season. A rather heavy
schedule is being arranged by the manager, Dick Grey; Charlotte, Cornelius, Salisbury, Concord, and others being on the schedule. Although
it has not been definitely decided, it is thought that a game will be played Saturday at Sprunt field between
the Wildkittens and Cornelius. On account of the players being under no S. I. A. A. restrictions, the only conditions
imposed on them are that they are white and under 16 years of age.

The Wildkittens are being coached by Hugh Grey, on a few signals and plays. So far he has put in
no fake plays and very few forward passes. Evidently, he expects the team to hold its own with straight football.
The lineup is as follows:
Bob Thompson, captain, right half.
Sam Black, left half.
Wells, full.
Dick Grey, quarter.
Howard Arbuckle, right end.
Riggs McConnell, left end.
Hamilton, right tackle.
Hager, left tackle.
Johnson, right guard.
Lobrey and White, left guards.
Joe McConnell, center.

It will be noted that the sons and brothers of many old Davidson stars are in the lineup. Among the
weekend visitors were Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Winston-Salem.

LIVE GOOD PEP MEETING HELD MONDAY NIGHT

Shearer Hall was the scene of one of the most boisterous, tumultuous, turbulent, uproarious, and vociferous “pep” meetings last Monday
night that she has witnessed in many a moon. Yells and songs were first given by the entire assemblage and
then the Freshmen were given a tryout alone in the vocal line. From the great outburst of sound that issued
from them, it seems very improbable that any are troubled with weak lungs. Music was furnished by the McCuen and
McConnell Symphony Stick Orchestra which added quite a degree of spice to the yells given by the Freshmen. After the
meeting was over, the crowd adjourned to the station and gave Pitts Douglas, who was leaving for Woodberry Forest, a
rousing send-off.

HOURS CHANGED AT LIBRARY FOR CONVENIENCE OF STUDENTS

Due to the irregular schedule and at the request of the students, the Library Committee has arranged for the library
to be open each evening from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. How long this will continue depends upon the use students
make of the library during these extra hours. In view of the above, students are requested to take note of
the following:
Library hours: 10 a.m. to 12 m.; 2:30 to 6:00 p.m.; 7:30 to 9:00 p.m.
Books are entered only on the record of the man getting them or on a written request. Verbal requests for
books to be sent cannot be honored. Reserved books go out only at 9:30 in the evening, to be returned
at ten o'clock the next morning. The fine for reserved books is twenty-five cents a day, ordinary books five cents
a day.

MISS CORNELIA SHAW TELLS OF FINE TRIP TO BRITAIN

The Davidson student body is agreeably surprised to hear of Miss Shaw's delightful trip abroad during the summer months in
which she saw many of the most famous and historical spots of Old England. Her journey included Southampton, Winchester, Salisbury,
and Canterbury in the south of England; three weeks in London and its vicinity, a few days at Cambridge, and
stops at Oxford, Stratford-on-Avon, the English Lakelands, and Edinburgh. A trip through the Scottish lakes, four days of boating among
the islands on the western coast of Scotland, a week on the Island of Skye, and the final return to
Southampton is but a brief outline of a few of the places she visited.

Southampton is a fitting place for an American to begin a trip through Great Britain, for the Cunard and White
Star docks are only a few yards from the spot where the Mayflower started on its memorable journey in 1620.
Also, the crew of the Titanic lived there and there are found monuments to the engineers, musicians, and captain of
that ill-fated ship.

In London, Americans are interested in the two memorials of General Washington, both unveiled in June. The statue in Trafalgar
Square, presented by the state of Virginia, was unveiled following an address by Dr. Henry Louis Smith, class of ’81,
former president of Davidson. As a fitting memorial to the American soldiers who fell in the recent war, the British
Legion has placed a bronze bust, which stands on a slender shaft of marble, in the crypt of St. Paul’s
Cathedral.

On the ship going over, she found J. E. Johnston, ’14, and Mrs. Johnston who were taking their bridal tour
to the battlefields of France and in the university and college libraries at Edinburgh Mr. Shelby T. McCloy, ’18, was
doing special work towards his Oxford degree. He acted as guide, philosopher, and friend during the visit to the Scottish
capital and was very thoughtful of Miss Shaw’s welfare.

“Willie P.” Nesbitt who got his “dip” last year is visiting us this year in search of an M.A.

Both fire and water were on the campus this weekend. Miss Sarah Lingle and her friend Miss Pratt, of Salem
College, spent the weekend at Davidson. Messrs. Fred E. Romefelt, both of the class of ’21 visited the campus this
week. Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Hamerick paid a short visit to the campus this week. Mr. Hamerick was formerly a
member of the class of ’24.

Patients at the infirmary this week:Weck were P., J. Kins, W. R. Booth, and “Tink” Taylor. “Rooster” McFadden is back
after an operation on his knee. He looked as if he wanted to be in the game Friday. J. Spratt
Moore is with us again and strengthens our backfield materially. Joe Walker, ’21, is on the campus for a few
days. He leaves October 1st for the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, where he will be in school this year.
Watts opened the season for water fights on Sunday night, when the second and third floors fought to a finish.

PAINTERS AND CARPENTERS BUSY HERE LAST SUMMER

Everyone interested in chemistry was glad to see the new improvements in the chemistry laboratory this year. The stock room
has been removed to the basement which has been recently excavated and enlarged for that purpose. This new arrangement will
furnish adequate space for the systematic arrangement of all the old stock and also for the large new stock of
chemicals and equipment which has just arrived. A club room has also been provided in the basement for the Gamma
Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity which will serve as a much-needed meeting hall and loafing room for the members of that
organization. A modern and thoroughly equipped organic and physical laboratory has been installed in the old stock room. The equipment
is up-to-date in every respect and will be used in the advanced work. Additional apparatus has been installed upstairs in
the inorganic laboratory and an individual balance room has been provided in the last year. A number of new books
have been added to the already excellent chemical laboratory. The lab is well equipped for work in organic, inorganic, and
physical chemistry.

Some improvements have also been made at the gym. Coach Grey appeared in chapel the other morning with a mysterious
bottle of something which later turned out to be a small portion of the chewing gum which had been removed
from the basketball floor when it was scraped and shellacked. A new movie screen has been provided in place of
the old one which was about worn out. The tennis courts have all been cleaned off and the majority of
them are in good playing condition. The old court behind Chambers, which has not been in use for quite a
while, has been graded down and will be put in first-class condition as soon as possible. Plans for a tournament
this fall have not been completed, but it is certain that one will be held and more complete information concerning
it will be given out at a later date.

LITERARY NEWS

EUMENIANS HOLD BUSINESS SESSION

Last Saturday night the Eumenean hall was the scene of much discussion concerning the work and goals to be accomplished
during the coming year. The first and main topic of business was a discussion regarding the division of the society
into two separate organizations in order to make ample room for the large number at present in the society and
prospective members. A “straw” vote was taken and it showed that the majority favored the division. The name and members
of the new organization will be chosen after consultation with the Phi society. Because of his many other duties, T.
M. Lowry placed before the society his resignation as treasurer. It was unanimously accepted. P. H. Biddle, who comes to
Davidson from the University of Florida, was received into the membership of the society. It was decided to have the
meetings of the society every Thursday night at 7:30 o'clock instead of Saturday night. The motion to have a “feed”
on the coming Thursday night was also carried. On that night the Freshmen who are to join the society will
be initiated. Several committees were appointed by the president to ensure coordination in all the departments of the society. These
included the Executive Committee composed of T. M. Lowry, chairman, J. P. Price, D. L. Mahood; Finance Committee, E. B.
McGukin, Houghton, R. H. Smith; Schedule Committee, Earl Bitzer, chairman, H. H. Smith, R. R. Jones; Absence Committee, P. D.
Moffatt, chairman, D. H. Ogden, A. C. Wildman.

PHI SOCIETY

Last Thursday night the Phi Society held its regular meeting, but the regular program was omitted in order that six
upper-classmen and forty Freshmen might be received into the society. The upper-classmen were first initiated. After this, the forty brave
members of the Freshman class filed into the hall and were given their initiation. Details of the initiation ceremonies cannot
be given here, but due to the efforts of W. K. McCain, master of initiation ceremonies, the new men were
made to appreciate the fact that they were becoming members of an organization which had its serious and frivolous moments
but whose main object was development more than simply amusement. After the initiation, Dwight Chalmers and Ralph Freeman gave very
helpful talks to the newly-made members on the value of the society to them. Those received were: W. P. Brown,
’23; J. D. Bernhardt, ’23; H. M. Junker, ’24; E. C. Douglas, ’24; K. F. Menzies, ’24; R. H. Fleming,
’24; J. R. Abernathy, ’24; Jack Austin, ’25; T. B. Brown, ’25; H. D. Brown, ’25; B. G. Brown, ’25;
J. D. Brown, ’25; O. M. Brown, ’25; M. S. Beall, ’25; S. W. Black, ’25; Robert Byerly, ’25; M.
C. Bowden, ’25; J. M. Carr, ’25; W. J. Calhoun, ’25; C. S. Furches, ’25; T. A. Guiton, ’25; W.
M. Gracy, ’25; W. F. Hockaday, ’25; J. F. Holtshouser, ’25; J. P. Hendrix, ’25; W. H. Hudson, ’25; C.
Johnston, ’25; J. P. Johnston, ’25; T. H. Koenig, ’25; K. Lewis, ’25; R. V. Liles, ’25; C. McMillan, ’25;
Dan Mallory, ’25; W. D. Northrop, ’25; J. M. Roberts, ’25; O. Ray, ’25; J. E. Singletary, ’25; W. A.
Patterson, ’25; J. M. Trotter, ’25; R. J. Smith, ’25; J. R. Thompson, ’25; T. B. Thompson, ’25; Willard Thomas,
’25; H. M. Wells, ’25; Ethan Wells, ’25; D. B. Wharton, ’25.

WITH THE CELLULOID REELS

The picture machine was turned over to the local chapter of the American Legion last Saturday night to present “Flashlight
Glimpses of the A. E. F.” The gymnasium was crowded with town people and college men, and an interesting and
instructive picture was presented. Next Saturday night the “Y” will show “The Woman God Changed,” a standard Paramount picture. Special
mention is to be made of the picture for October 1st, which is to be a super-Paramount, a special feature
picture. On that date nine movie stars will be shown in “Affairs of Anatol,” the biggest hit of the season.
Some of these stars are Douglas Fairbanks, William S. Hart, Bebe Daniels, Agnes Ayres, and Kathleen Williams. It is hoped
that the men will remain on the hill that weekend and take advantage of this feature picture.

TOWN NEWS

Miss Lila McGehee spent the weekend with her aunt, Mrs. J. L. Curry. Mr. Bassett, the father of Mrs. Porter,
has come to spend the winter with Dr. and Mrs. Porter. Mrs. Weatherby and small daughter have joined Captain Weatherby
and will spend the winter here. Mr. and Mrs. Lilly, of Virginia, have secured the house of Mr. Holland Helper,
on North Main street, as a residence.

STATIONERY

A full and complete line of Eaton, Crane and Pike Co’s. Linen Lawn and Highland Linen writing paper.

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent D. W. ROBERTS 23 Watts

This Space Reserved for Wrigley Chewing Gum Co. For college men.

5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)

Sweaters

We have them, fellows—some of the nicest and nobbiest models you can find. Our prices on sweaters are low, right
in line with our low prices on all sporting goods.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN Phone 3248
