THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 15, 1921.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”

Write for catalogue, Prices and ‘THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO. Reasonable terms of
payment can be arranged. Tuning, Repairing and Moving.

JOHN W. POST & CO.
Manager Warehouses 200-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 34%
221 W. Trade St.

Established 1873
A. S. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Roll ‘Em, Andy!
Andy was having a quiet little game down the alley, and the following was overheard:
Andy—“Ford dem bones, nigger, Ford dem bones.”
Player—“What you mean, Ford dem bones?”
Andy—“Shake, rattle, and roll.”

At the Trough
Miss Marietta had a hen;
She thought that she would set her;
But feed went up and up and up,
And so Miss Marietta.

Now, Pat!
Pat Miller and Doc Beatty were walking on the campus at night. Doc looked to the sky and remarked: “How
bright Orion is tonight.”
“So that is O’Ryan, is it?” said Pat. “Well, I'm glad there is one Irishman in heaven anyway!”

Joe's Real Name.
Joe McCaskill was working in a railroad yard last summer down in S. C. One morning on answering the phone
the question came, “Is that eight-six-one-five-nine?” “Aw, g’wan!” said Joe. “What do you think I am, a box car?”

High Flyers.
First Moth—"Oh, I’m so tired this morning,”
Second Moth—“Up late last night?”
First Moth—“Yes, I was at a camphor ball.”

Record Time.
Victrolas to right of ‘em,
Victrolas to left of 'em,
Victrolas behind ‘em
Smote and then thundered;
Ragtime that pierced the sky,
Grand opera pitched too high,
And not a single lull-a-by
In records six hundred.

Rush ‘Em Up.
Sam Story was hired as a painter last summer. The foreman found him painting very rapidly one day and asked
why the unusual hurry. “Well,” said Sam, “the paint’s getting low and I want to get through before it gives
out.”

Speaking about college magazines, Eris Cassell, ex-Rock Hill, S. C., informs us that the Winthrop Journal has made its appearance
and that his girl has “A Poem” on page 57.—Becky from Babylon.

What's the use of living
Isn’t any aim.
What's the use of thinking
It’s only pain.
What's the use of kissing
He'd only tell.
What's the use of living
OH well.

R. Jones—How is the police force getting along in your town?
Bob McLeod—He is doing nicely, thank you.

Groves—What you have just said is a pun.
Joe—Upon whom?

Spat—Say Pat, have you a cigarette?
Pat C—Yes, plenty, thank you.

The Lurid Leper.
The authorship of “The Lurid Leper,” a copy of which is given below, is ascribed to Dr. James Addison Alexander,
a son of the first president of Hampden-Sidney College, Dr. Archibald Alexander. Dr. J. A. Alexander was a very brilliant
linguist, and had a habit of “talking without thinking” at times for the amusement of the young people with whom
he came in contact. The selection to follow is said to be one of his productions which happened to be
copied down at the time and passed around among some of his friends. It is a ridiculous conglomeration of unusual
words, and will well repay a careful reading. Mr. M. W. Venable, now of Charleston, W. Va., memorized this piece
more than sixty years ago, and it is his quotation that will be presented.

THE LURID LEPER
In that spasmodic region where mankind
Was deeply synchronous and vaguely blind,
Where elemental anodynes prevail
And Stygian carols ventilate the sail;
Where man is analyzed and nature’s voice
Bids esoteric fallacies rejoice.
In that far distant soporific land
There dwelt an adipose erratic band,
Whose crimson verdicts and whose bland petards;
Whose synalephas and Aelaic guards,
Whose imbeciles and whose chevaliers
Annulled and sacrificed for many years.At length a “leper” of laconic form
Appeared sophisticated on a storm;
His eyes mellifluous, his nose malign,
His lurid color vilified the Rhine;
While on his brow a sudorific sneer
Of calligraphic anguish did appear.
On either side of his Savannah ran
A tall narcotic evanescent man,
And all around a cloud of granite spread
White as a coal and as a lily red.
From this a Salamander floated in,
And stood where once a terebinth had been;
Paused for a moment, shook his amber mane,
Rushed upon the leper—vain.
Were his efforts to propel the pang,
His bones were crumbled ‘neath that murderous fang.
He shrieked, he sympathized, he vainly tried
To draw an inference with ghastly pride.
And thus without a groan the “Lurid Leper" died;
And o’er his grave a ghastly catacomb
Rises like Chimborazo over Rome.
Hither the Pilgrim in his fell canoe
Eludes the gnomon and his wild halloo;
And as he vilifies his deep career,
In which a panoply of myths appear;
Pursues Pygmalion in his lambent cars,
Dissects the universe and dethrones the stars;
Assails the Carmine, then ascends the Alps
And builds a wigwam of a thousand scalps.
More of thy history I need not tell,
But bid the “Lurid Leper" farewell.

GREAT TIME ENJOYED BY ALL PASSENGERS ON WILDCAT SPECIAL.

“Hail, hail, the gang's all here,
What the——All aboard, train for Davidson.”
The Wildcat Limited was under way with friend Abernathy presiding. Nor was all the fun a thing of the past
as the eminent composer, Prof. Culbreth, led us in singing, the only bad feature of which was the high and
shrill voice of the well-known jazzer, Ormand. After the first act of this performance, McLeod and McLeod took charge of
the destinies of all those present by organizing their Smoky Nine of rope chewers. They were ably assisted in their
performance by Story, with his John, Jr., at first, and little Willie Carr plus a Virginia Cheroot at short, while
the rest of the team acted their parts well until Prof. Culbreth had a mishap with his stogy and had
to retire from the game. As all available cigars were in use at the time, the game was called off
because of the lack of ammunition. Those who had not been able to muster the required cash for the venture,
or who did not want to part with it, had the pleasure of riding the top of the caboose and
some were fortunate enough to get by with it. Names suppressed.

Cigars and voices both having given out, the rest of the journey was looking rather dismal when the Ford on
the front of our line of parlor cars blew for home. At this juncture, someone asked Handsome Hamer which end
of the train he wanted to get off. This youth looked very surprised and asked: “Don’t both ends stop?” “All
out for Davidson” howled superintendent Baba and our holiday was at a close.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never
more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information
address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six
boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill, N. C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director
Davidson, N. C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES
Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, April 14th, 15th and 16th
Acad Orchestra Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
BELL AND ARLISS Bits of Harmony and Song
AUSTRALIAN STANLEY Too Full for Words
HAL JOHNSON AND CO. In a Farce With Music, “MR. CHAPERON”
HAIG AND LA VERE Two Friends Who Can’t Get Along
SAWYER AND EDDY An Aerial Novelty
