4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 9 A.M. on Wednesday.

Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
J. M. Richards

Managing Editor
R. D. McLeod

Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. Ormond

Athletic Editor
R. E. Summers

Alumni Editor
H. H. Jones

Exchange Editor
J. R. Doubles

Campus Editor
J. W. Tuller

Y. M. C. A. Editor
C. D. Mitchell

Social Editor
A. M. Morris

Literary Editor
H. M. Phillips

Publicity Editor
J. W. Tuller

REPORTERS:
T. A. Lacy, C. G. Long, D. L. Mahood, G. W. Mauze, R. Bitzer, C. E. Cunningham, J. R. Jones, A. D. King

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. Matthews
Business Manager

E. A. Nash
Assistant Managers

J. S. Curry

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“It is a crime to be a little man in such a day as this.”

With baseball in full swing and the campus once more clothed in green, it is indeed hard to resist that case of spring fever.

Davidson has a right to be proud of such a team as the one which met Carolina in Winston-Salem on Easter Monday. Coach Hengeveld’s men put up a hard, clean scrap throughout the entire contest, and the number of Davidson supporters in the stands increased with the progress of the game.

Our heartiest thanks and good wishes are due to the citizens of the Twin City for the splendid way in which they supported the contest.

The new tennis courts go far toward meeting a long-felt need at Davidson and we are glad to see the interest being manifested by our racquet enthusiasts.

A TRIBUTE AND A PLEA.

For twelve months the students and alumni of Davidson College have been served by the Editorial Staff and Reporters’ Club of the 1920-21 Davidsonian with but little recognition of their services, and oftentimes in the face of scornful criticism they have done their best for the maintenance of a successful college paper, and through it for the building of a bigger and better Davidson.

That mistakes have been made no one can deny; otherwise, the staff members would not be human. Nevertheless, they have done their work faithfully and well and the high standards set in previous years have been maintained. In the face of tremendous financial difficulties which were entirely beyond their power to control, they have published a paper which compared favorably with the best college weeklies in the South, and their efforts reflect nothing but credit on their Alma Mater. In behalf of every true lover of Davidson, we wish to thank these men for their work.

This issue of the paper marks the first effort of a new and untried staff. It is with a feeling of misgiving and yet of hope that we assume our new duties and send to press our first issue. We have set our aspirations high and it is our purpose to equal and if possible to surpass the achievements of the past year. Whether our goal is to be reached or not can be determined only by the readers of the paper. It is to you then that we wish to make our plea—a plea for co-operation in every sense of the word.

First of all, we would ask of the students that they give us their undivided support. When mistakes are made, do not take the attitude of the knocker who finds fault without suggesting a remedy. Your suggestions can help us more than you realize and the staff is always ready and eager to consider any constructive criticism.

Of the alumni, we would first of all ask more subscriptions. The Davidsonian keeps many Davidson graduates in touch with their college, but the work done is only a fraction of what might be accomplished with a larger circulation. We request that you use us in furthering plans for your class reunions or any similar movement, and shall be glad to print news sent to us at any time.

Finally, we would ask of the Faculty and Board of Trustees that they permit us to raise our subscription fee and increase our allotment from the blanket fee to a reasonable amount. A successful paper cannot be maintained on advertising alone and if we are to give Davidson the kind of paper which she needs, we must have adequate financial assets. We believe that you will realize the soundness of our position and that this request, as well as the two which have preceded it, will be cheerfully granted.

Open Forum

YOUR OPPORTUNITY

When Hercules was a young man, in a vision he was offered two lives of future conduct. He had to choose between a life of ease and pleasure and one of hardships. There was no middle path. Every student council has had to make the same choice. Will the council choose to follow the line of least resistance or will it follow some definite constructive policy? It must make its decision at the very first. The present council and those before it have removed many big stones from the road to a Better Davidson and much should now be accomplished.

One thing the council should do is to clearly define its position. The student council should be absolutely free from any faculty influence. It should handle all matters that come under its jurisdiction and shirk none. It should make clear to the student body that it is not a police force. The council is as human as the students themselves. The student body has no right to elect a few men and put all responsibility on them. The best conditions will exist when each student meets his responsibility. If John does not do his part, all the more reason why James should do his; and, if John does his part, then James should also do his part.

The incoming council should remove all dead timber from the constitution and by-laws and unfalteringly follow what isthere. It should meet regularly to discuss constructive work and this will prove that it is not merely a punitive body. Unfortunately, there are many different opinions of the exact meaning of honor. The council should clearly state what it considers honorable and what is dishonorable. The work in the laboratories should be on as strict an honor basis as examinations. Think about it, reason it out, analyze it, and you'll agree that it is only right and proper that it should be that way. One man may try to accomplish all this, the council may; and yet, they'll fail unless the students co-operate. The aims of the council must be those of the students. The council must serve the students and the students must support the men they elect to the council. If the incoming council, by the help of the students, can clearly define its position to the students and gain their co-operation; if it can build up a higher standard of honor; if it can begin on a constructive program, it must nevertheless be very careful to undertake only that which will be worthwhile and to see that it is well done. God grant that the incoming council will be a blessing to old Davidson.

Vox Clamantis.

PLAYS BY QUEENS DRAMATIC CLUB HOLD ATTENTION ON APRIL 4TH

Two One-Act Plays and Dance of the Seasons to Constitute Program

On the night of April 4th, the Queens College Dramatic Club will present two one-act plays in Shearer Hall. This organization has proved unusually capable in its efforts this season, having scored several successful hits in Charlotte, and it is with keen interest that the students of Davidson College welcome the club to the Hill.

The first play, “The Happy Day,” is a drama of recent publication, the scene being laid in a modern sitting room about the time of early spring. The cast of characters is as follows: Mrs. Marlowe—Frances Boyd; Anne Loring—Adele Cross; Sybil Marlowe—Kathryn Shuford; Kitty Fern—Edna Deaton; Opal Neff—Carrie Darby Harrison; Mrs. Tatlock—Margie Benoy; Polly Tatlock—Annie Parks Moore; Dr. Quick—Margaret Mackey.

The second play is entitled “Cicely’s Cavalier,” and the scene is laid in a little English village, during the time of the war between the Cavaliers and Puritans. The cast of characters follows: Mehetabel—Elizabeth Finley; Cicely Widdrington—Dorothy Powell; Nehemiah Saxby—Claire Reid; Major Widdrington—Margie Benoy; Captain Sarewe—Frances Pitts.

One of the features of the performance will be a dance in which Misses Elizabeth Finley, Frances Pitts, Adele Cross, and Margaret Mackey will represent Winter, Spring, Summer, and Autumn, respectively. The Dramatic Club is under the able direction of Miss Carlotta Mitchell. The officers are as follows: Frances Pitts, president; Elizabeth Finley, vice-president; Norah Peacock, secretary; Adele Cross, treasurer.

And ‘twas midnight on the ocean,
The sun was shining brightly,
'Twas a winter day in summer,
While a barefoot boy with shoes on
Sat standing in the grass;
It was evening and the rising
Sun was setting in the West,
And the little fishes in the trees
Were huddled in their nests
While the rain was pouring upward
And everything that you could see
Was hidden out of sight.
While the organ peeled the onions
And while the sexton rang the bell
Holy smoke! cried the preacher
Someone softly hollered fire!
In the rush he lost his hair,
Now his head, it looks like Heaven
For there is no parting there.

THIRTEEN BIG MISTAKES IN LIFE.

Judge McCormick, of San Francisco, says there are 13 mistakes of life:
1. To attempt to set up your own standards of right and wrong.
2. To try to measure the enjoyment of others by your own.
3. To expect uniformity of opinions in this world.
4. To fail to make allowances for inexperience.
5. To endeavor to mould all dispositions alike.
6. Not to yield to unimportant trifles.
7. To look for perfection in our own actions.
8. To worry ourselves and others about what cannot be remedied.
9. Not to help everybody, wherever, however, and whenever we can.
10. To consider anything impossible that we cannot ourselves perform.
11. To believe only what our finite minds can grasp.
12. Not to make allowances for the weaknesses of others.
13. To estimate by some outside quality when it is that within which makes the man.

A SAD TALE.

The time was in November,
Last July a year ago
Not a street car was in sight;
Tho it rained all day that night.
The rain was snowing fast
While a barefoot boy with shoes on
Sat standing in the grass;
Sun was setting in the West,
And the little fishes in the trees
Were huddled in their nests
While the rain was pouring upward
And everything that you could see
Was hidden out of sight.
While the organ peeled the onions
And while the sexton rang the bell
Holy smoke! cried the preacher
Someone softly hollered fire!
In the rush he lost his hair,
Now his head, it looks like Heaven
For there is no parting there.

ONE ON “PAP.”

Mr. Askew (in history class)—Brannon, where was the Declaration of Independence signed?
Brannon—At the bottom of the paper.