THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

WILDCATS HAVE HARD GAME AHEAD IN FURMAN CONTEST

Judging from former games of the season, Coach Laval’s Purple Hurricane is prepared to uncork a jugful of unexpected tricks
on the Wildcats Turkey Day. Furman has, more than once this season, surprised its opponents by its forward passing and
trick plays. At one time, in the Georgia game, Furman’s quarter called for six forward passes in succession and three
of them were successful, gaining 35 yards. Again, in that game, the men in purple tried 16 passes and completed
eight of them for a total of 122 yards. Even against Tech’s powerful defense, the aerial route gained Furman 39
yards. The gains through Georgia’s line by the Furman backs also show that the purple line works well on the
offensive, and an Atlanta paper reports that Furman’s ends gave the Staton brothers a lot of trouble in the Tech
game. These same ends starred in the South Carolina game, which was won 7-0 by a trick. When on the
defensive, Furman’s line also showed up well, especially in the Tech game in which it stopped Tech's drives until completely
worn down. The line also held South Carolina to five downs, and results show that 90 percent of the tackles
in that game were made by linesmen. Taken altogether, Furman promises to give the Wildcats a fight on Thursday. Comparative
scores tell very little, but from these Davidson has an edge on Furman if we judge from the results of
the Wofford game, while if we judge from the S. C. game, Furman has the advantage, for South Carolina played
North Carolina to a tie, the same as Davidson. Furman’s scores so far are:

Furman --- Erskine --- 7
Furman --- Newberry --- 0
Furman --- Georgia --- 27
Furman --- Ga. Tech --- 69
Furman --- Clemson --- 0
Furman --- Citadel --- 0
Furman --- Mercer --- 0
Furman --- South Carolina --- 0
Furman --- Wofford --- 0

DAVIDSON SCRUBS TO PLAY CLEMSON SCRUBS SATURDAY

Saturday afternoon at 2:30, on Sprunt Field, the Wildkittens will meet the Clemson Scrubs in what is expected to be
the hardest contest the Wildkittens have been in this year. Clemson Scrubs have played the Georgia Reserves, in which game
they held that larger and more experienced aggregation to a 7-7 tie. Last week they held the Georgia Tech Freshmen
to a 7-0 score. Clemson is unusually good on her forward passing and with Reanus and Turnipseed in the backfield,
Davidson ends and backfield men will have to be on their toes. These two men are Clemson’s outstanding stars and
are like greased lightning on end runs and like thunderbolts on off-tackle plays. The Davidson Scrubs have lost only one
game this year and are in better shape now than ever before, and a battle royal is expected when these
two teams meet for the final game of the season.

ELSIE FERGUSON WAS GOOD IN PICTURE “FOOTLIGHTS”

Elsie Ferguson gave a fine performance in a picture that stands out as one of the first-rate film productions of
the year. So says Robert Sherwood, of Life, in writing of “Footlights,” and the Davidson fans heartily agree with him.
One reason advanced for the superiority of this play is that Elsie Ferguson and the director, John S. Robinson, were
thoroughly in accord and worked smoothly together. It is not often that such a high-class picture penetrates to the “provinces”
so quickly. “Footlights” has only been released about a month and was shown at Loew’s New York theatre November 5th
and 6th.

N. C. STATE FRESH TEAM (Continued from page 1)

Teams seemed prepared for the aerial game. The Wildkittens received the ball at the beginning of the second half and
by line plunges, with Captain Crawford leading the attack, carried the ball to State’s one-yard line. Here the “Raleighites” held
for downs and the ball went over. State then punted out of danger, Hendrix receiving the ball and making 15
yards. The Scrubs made a first down and then punted. The Fresh returned the ball to midfield, where they were
held for two downs and then tried a pass. One of the Scrubs broke through and knocked the pass into
the hands of one of the State men who ran for a touchdown. Martin again failed to kick goal. In
the fourth quarter, the ball see-sawed up and down the field. Finally, the Kittens again placed the ball on their
opponents’ 15-yard line, where the Rats obtained the ball. The punt which they attempted was broken up by one of
the Davidson men, but a State man fell on the ball. Here Jeanette ran 95 yards over tackle for a
touchdown. This ended the scoring. In this half, the Wildkittens completed three of the five passes attempted. It would be
hard to choose the individual stars of the Davidson aggregation, but Jeanette seemed to be the whole of the State
team. When he had his hands on the ball, his interference and his own side-stepping and stiff arm seemed to
work to perfection.

ELON LOSES (Continued from page 1)

Christenbury (Davidson), Davidson. Elon, (Continued from page 1) nessed a class game in years. Price was commended for his fighting
spirit and in fine form and played a steady game. For the victors, every man should be style of play.
Houghton was especially conspicuous for his shooting, while Mauze lived up to his name as all-class center, acting as a
nucleus around which all the Junior plays were executed, and piling up six points by his accuracy in placing his
foul shots. The line-up was:

Doubles 10, Cornelson 4, Neel 4, Freeman 2, Brake 6, Houghton 16, Mauze 12

Touchdowns: Schenck 2, McAllister, Lake, Black, McFadden. Goals from touchdowns: Schenck 4 out of 4, Erwin 1 out of 2.
Field Goals: McFadden 2. Referee: D. Major (Clemson), Umpire: Sampson (St. Albans). Linesman: Peanut Parcher

Three Dead Soldiers on the Campus. “The Rumple Rumor.” “The Wildcat Weakly.” “The Peanut Parcher.” “Weekly Question.” What has become
of the old-fashioned Senior who took advantage of his privilege-Mustache. The Right Way. Better put what has become of the
old-fashioned privilege. Mixed Up. Say, Myron, is that a golf ball? Yes, one laid by a Plymouth Rock chicken. A
Report. The weather man reports to the Parcher that light showers mingled with heavy downpours will be prevalent on the
hill this weekend. There is a young man named McCuen, Who goes around where trouble is brewing. Going down the
hall, He met a man six feet tall, And for days his right eye was blueing.

A Request. Frank McCleod asked the Parcher to let him off this week. This request has been granted. Is This
So? “Birds of a feather flock together.” Is this true of bald-headed men? The Opposite. “Say, Bob, have you those
biscuits cornered?” Bob—“No, but the biscuits are on the corner.” What About It? Some people say that Charlie Chaplin can’t
write. But can Wallace Reed? A La Carte. Pink—“What did you have for dinner?” Bill Mc—“Soup.” Pink—“What did you have
for supper?”222.552 .2 95 9} per?” b Passes attempted 15 10 Bill—“Soup.” Passes completed 1 1 Pink—“Is that all you
ever have?” Bill—“Nope, soup with two beans for breakfast.”

Day As They Are.
Things you hear at local boarding houses:
Return of kickoffs 136
Return of punts 126
Things you don’t hear:
Individual scores:
Schenck 205
Long 193
Shepherd 131

Find Out.
If it takes a cross-eyed fish with gold teeth and bobbed hair 3 hours and 42 minutes and 3 1-2
ticks to float downstream of Mary Garden perfume 70 miles long, how long will it take four cromado to kick
the buttons off the front of a Charlotte policeman’s coat, if the cop has two children, and the oldest has
a corncob pipe?

JUNIOR FIVE WINS
When the cow slips will the butter fly.

Jack—My girl is like an old sock.
Jill—How’s that?
Jack—Because she’s ripping.

An Accident.
Peg—You say somebody came near getting killed last night?
M. C.—Yes, Bill slipped on his pajamas and fell in bed, near Juniors.

Position. Seniors.
The Answer.
X—“Why is a Jew like a match?”
Y—“Because he either breaks or burns.”

Substitutions: Freeman for Price, Price for Freeman. Points: Ormond 6 out of 8. Referee: Coach Hengeveld. Umpire: Captain George. Scorer:
Bill Mauze. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

LITERARY NEWS
EU. MEMBERS DISCUSS GIVING SUPPLIES TO RUSSIA
The program of the Eu. Society, for the meeting of November 17th consisted of the regular debate, a declamation by
B. T. Team, an oration by T. H. Patterson, and the inaugural address of P. D. Miller. The query for
debate read: Resolved, That the U. S. should donate to Russian relief societies such used clothing and surplus supplies as
cannot be advantageously used by the army or readily disposed of for cash. For the affirmative J. M. McCutcheon and
D. B. Walthall showed the terrible need for aid in Russia and that our surplus supplies could be used there
with moral and political benefit to the world. On the negative W. T. Elliott and D. L. Mahood presented the
ideas that Russia does not need outside aid and that we could dispose of these supplies more profitably elsewhere. The
decision of the judges as well as of the house was in favor of the negative.

B. L. Team rendered a declamation by James Whitcomb Riley, “The Old Man and Jim,” in a very dramatic and
appealing manner and was rewarded with an outburst of applause at its conclusion. T. H. Patterson, in an interesting oration
on the Disarmament Conference pointed out the tremendous issues at stake in this world meeting and showed its importance in
preventing future wars. The newly elected president, P. D. Miller, made his inaugural address at this time. In a logical
and spirited speech he reviewed the past history of the society, criticized its present situation, pled for a better allegiance
to its best interests and pledged to it the utmost aid and support of which he is capable.

D. McKEITHEN AND BITZER ARE RECEIVED BY SIGMA UPSILON
Last Wednesday evening in the S. A. E. hall, the Sigma Upsilon enlarged its membership by taking in two new
men, Rolston Bitzer and Harold McKeithen. These men have been chosen for the honor because of the special literary merit
they have shown during their college career. After the initiation ceremonies Prof. L. M. Currie read a paper on “The
Original Short Story” and D. M. Chalmers gave a review of Elsie Canfield’s new book, “The Brimming Cup.” Both of
these papers were splendidly prepared and well delivered. At the close of the meeting light refreshments were served.

EU. FRESHMEN STAGE DEBATE ON JAPAN IN THE FAR EAST
Last Tuesday evening at 6:45 the Fresh Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting in the Eu hall. After the
reading of the Scripture by the president, E. C. Moomaw led the house in prayer. When the business had been
disposed of, an interesting program was carried out. The question for debate was, Resolved, That the Japanese policy in the
East should not be discussed at the peace conference. Those upholding the affirmative were H. M. Moss, F. A. Hopkins
and A. M. McGregor, while J. L. Steele, P. B. Freeland and L. B. Gibbs argued the negative. The speakers
on both sides brought forward splendid arguments. The affirmative endeavored to show that the discussion of the Japanese policy in
the East would be contrary to the great Monroe doctrine, but L. B. Gibbs, of the negative, quoting from the
Monroe doctrine, explained that it said nothing about the nations of the far East. The negative argued that the recent
world war plainly showed that complications in one part of the world are a menace to world peace and that
the Japanese policy is a menace and ought to be discussed at the peace conference. But the affirmative took the
stand that the peace conference was called for the purpose of discussing armament and not any one country’s affairs. The
judges decided two to one in favor of the affirmative, while the house, voting upon the merits of the question,
voted unanimously in favor of the negative. Declamations were given by J. R. Earnest and T. C. McSwain. These were
perhaps the best yet heard in the Fresh Society, and indicated a bright future for the Eumeneans along this line.

PHI. SOCIETY ELECTS NEW OFFICERS FOR NEXT TERM
In the Phi Society last Thursday night the regular program was dispensed with in order that the officers for next
term might be elected. For president four men were nominated, J. H. McKeithen, C. G. Brown, T. A. Freeman and
J. I. Knight. From this number McKeithen was elected. The other officers elected were as follows: Vice-president, J. W. Baldwin;
secretary, J. L. McLean; first critic, J. I. Knight; second critic, M. P. Calhoun; first supervisor, P. J. Story; second
supervisor, E. D. Brown.

18 E. Trade St.
EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
Fall Sports
Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the
Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Phone 902

Where do you buy them?
SMALL B. A. ANDERSON, Vice-President
W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

YOUR FURNISHINGS!
We can fill your needs at POPULAR PRICES
A. Pittle
Opposite the Southern Mfg. Club
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NONE TOO LARGE
T. S. MCPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
