THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 24, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

M. RICHARDS................. Editor-in-Chief
P. PRICE....................... Forum Editor
F. A. GAMBLE, JR........... Managing Editor
T. S. CURRY................... Campus Editor
H. H. SMITH................. Asst. Managing Editor
J. C. BAILEY, JR............. Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. F. DAVIDSON............. Assignment Editor
J. SPRUNT..................... Social Editor
A. C. ORMON................ Athletic Editor
J. H. OGDEN, JR............. Literary Editor
A. C. SUMME................. Alumni Editor
W. J. COOPER............... Publicity Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN........... Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. ITZER, Pres.
G. W. MAUZE, V.-Pres.
H. M. NORRIS, Sec.-Treas.
ED. FEWELL
W. Z. BRADFORD
J. S. GRACY
W. H. MOORE
C. V. BROWN
W. M. HESTON
W. P. BROWN
J. C. IVES
R. H. SMITH
M. P. CALHOUN
J. R. JONES
C. D. TULLER
W. M. COX
R. R. JONES
D. B. WALTHALL
L. D. ELKINS
W. I. KNOX
A. C. WILDMAN
W. T. ELLIOTT
T. A. LACY
C. F. WILDMAN
E. H. MAUZE

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. L. TAYLOR................. Business Manager
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD... Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
H. RUSSELL and G. D. TULLER... Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN and R. L. PRICE... Asst. Circulation Managers

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

In view of the fact that many of the students will be off the hill on Thanksgiving Day, this week’s issue of The Davidsonian is appearing one day early.

Thus far Davidson has won three games, tied three, and lost three. The tie will be broken in Greenville tomorrow when we are expecting the Wildcats to make the Purple Hurricane look like a sweet evening breeze.

The reason for that dreamy look which so many Seniors are wearing around the campus this week will probably be made evident when the two-fifty train rolls in Friday.

THE SPIRIT OF THANKSGIVING

THANKSGIVING; What does the name mean to us? To the average man the day seems to mean only a holiday, a big dinner, a football game, or perhaps a hunting trip. The thought of any deeper significance in the occasion does not once occur to his mind, so engrossed is he in the pursuit of these pleasures. Yet surely this is not as it should be.

From the day when the Pilgrim Fathers first celebrated Thanksgiving on the coasts of New England until President Harding issued the Thanksgiving Proclamation for 1921, the celebration has had a deeper and nobler meaning. That meaning is well expressed in the name of the day itself. It is a time for a national and individual giving of thanks to the Giver of every good and perfect gift for the blessings which He has bestowed on us during the year just past.

We shall not endeavor to mention any list of the things for which we should be thankful. Such a list as we might print here would of necessity be incomplete, and besides the things which occur to every individual are not the same. Surely there is no one of us who has not much for which to be grateful, however, and the day should mean much to us all. Let us celebrate it in the real spirit of Thanksgiving.

A WORD OF APPRECIATION

In the issue of The Outlook dated September 21, there appeared under the title “Mine Own People” a prize article by a Southern woman attacking Southern men. The writer, a Miss Marshall, speaks of the Southerner’s selfishness, intemperance, and hot temper. “The Southerner still to a large extent regards a woman as a servant or a beautiful toy,” she says, and goes on to state that he considers a good mind as a liability in a woman. She characterizes him as proud of his temper and even goes so far as to say that “the Southerner of Anglo-Saxon descent is a brute,” taking her own life and experience with her father and brother as a basis for this arraignment of an entire section.

In the same publication for October 12 there was published a letter written in answer to this article, and headed “A Northern Woman Defends Southern Men.” Miss Mary G. Ellinwood, who for some years past has been a resident of Davidson and who is well known to a large number of friends here, was its writer and in it she clearly refutes Miss Marshall’s charges. Beginning with the statement that she has spent over thirty years in the South, being intimately associated with families from Virginia to Florida, she goes on to show the utter falsehood of such a belief about the South. “Never have I known a single instance of the subservience of women to men,” she says, and concludes with the appropriate comment that “it is a comfort to know that Miss Marshall’s ‘Own People’ are not representative of the majority of families, either North or South.”

The Davidsonian wishes to take advantage of this opportunity to express its rather tardy thanks to Miss Ellinwood for her splendid defense of Southern manhood. It gives us especial pleasure that the writer of such an article should be a resident of Davidson, where more than five hundred young men from practically every state in the South are assembled.

ARTHUR LEE GASTON
WORTHY SON OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Arthur Lee Gaston, 1896, lawyer and legislator, was born in Chester, S. C., August 14, 1876. He is the son of Thomas Chalmers and Adelaide (Lee) Gaston. He is descended from a long line of distinguished ancestors, both American and European, the first known of whom was John Gaston, Grand Duke of Tuscany, cousin to Louis XII of France, who, on account of his Huguenot affiliations, was banished from his country, and subsequently took up his residence in Scotland. Arthur Lee Gaston received...His preparatory education in the graded schools of Chester, and was graduated from Davidson, with the degree of A.B., in 1896. He took up the study of law at the University of Virginia in the following academic year, pursuing at the same time advanced courses in logic, philosophy, history, and English literature. He completed his legal studies in the office of Judge George W. Gage, was admitted to the bar in December 1897, and rose rapidly to conspicuous rank in his profession. In 1900 he was elected a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, and was re-elected in 1902, and again in 1904, and served continuously as a member of the judiciary committee of that body. He was also chairman of the dispensary committee, and member of the dispensary investigating committee. He is vice-president and one of the incorporators of the Commercial Bank of Chester; solicitor and one of the incorporators of the Chester Building and Loan Association; vice-president of the Patterson Public Library Association; and first secretary and treasurer of the Commercial and Manufacturers’ Club. During the Spanish-American war, he served from May to November 1898, as first lieutenant of Company D, First South Carolina Volunteer Infantry. On December 3, 1902, Mr. Gaston married Miss Virginia Aiken, daughter of the late David Aiken, of Greenwood, S.C., and granddaughter of Congressman Aiken, deceased. They have one living child, David Aiken Gaston.

DEATHS.
Rev. Calvin Lewis Stewart, 1877, died November 9, 1921, at Pelzer, S.C. He was pastor of the Williamston, Pelzer, and Lickville churches. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Stewart went to the Columbia Theological Seminary, of Columbia, S.C. He graduated there in 1880 and was licensed to preach in the same year.

MARRIAGES.
C. A. McArthur, ex-1919, of St. Pauls, N.C., was recently married to Miss Nora L. Pope, of Lumberton, N.C. Harry P. Murray, ex-’20, was married on Wednesday, November 23, to Miss Lilian Powell, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Powell, of Pulaski, Tenn.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI
Reese Jenkins, '17, is a Senior at Columbia Seminary this year. Capt. Reid R. Morrison, ’02, was in Davidson on business last week. Frank Price, ’16, is a Senior at Yale Divinity School and a personal friend of Dr. H. B. Wright, who was on the campus last week. Charlotte has elected an ex-Davidson man as mayor, Hon. J. O. Walker, ex-’01. Some of the alumni who attended the Elon game last Saturday were: J. L. Limburger, ’91, of Lincolnton, N.C.; Joe Johnston, ’01, of Lincolnton; McAlister Carson, ’13, of Charlotte; L. H. Wilkinson, '13, of Charlotte; W. W. Flowe, ’95, of Concord, N.C.; J. P. Taylor, ’21, of Winston-Salem; C. K. Brown, ’21, Cleveland, N.C.

SENIOR SPEAKING TO HOLD ATTENTION FOR WEEKEND
(Continued from page 1)
Production and a high-class performance may be expected. The personnel is: D. R. LaFar, interlocutor; W. M. Bogart, E. T. Woolfolk, A. V. Gibson, and R. K. Shaw, end men. The quartette and A. C. Brown will give a farce chautauqua program. There will appear three other similar acts and a grand finale.

MISS HELEN GIBBS HOSTESS TO “B” COMPANY SATURDAY
Miss Helen Gibbs, sponsor of the honor Company B, was hostess to the company at a delightful entertainment in her home last Saturday evening. The occasion was in celebration of the company’s winning the honor flag in the Armistice Day Reserve Officers’ Training Corps demonstration for having the most original and best-executed stunt. Miss Gibbs’ home was beautifully decorated in colors of the company, black and gold. The color scheme was cleverly carried out, large streamers of black and gold radiated from the chandeliers, little black and gold favors were distributed, and large bowls of yellow chrysanthemums were used to carry out the color scheme in a most effective way. Delicious punch was served from three large punch bowls. Everyone enjoyed it so much that the whole company agreed that hereafter they would have more punch and snap in their drill. Neapolitan ice cream and golden chocolate cake were also enjoyed by all. The band furnished music for the occasion, livening things up with professional jazz and contributing in general to the spirit of mirth and gaiety that reigned supreme. Among the charming young ladies present were the Misses Gibbs, Miss Orrie Steele, Miss Jean Martin, Miss Kalista Hood, Miss Nina Holt White, Miss Sophia Richards, Miss Eloise Martin, Miss Dorothy Finlayson, and others. It was simply one of those delightfully informal affairs where everybody knows everybody else and all have a good time. It will long be remembered as one of the brightest spots in the life of B Company. The whole company agreed that such a sponsor as theirs was indeed worth working hard for and that their efforts to win the honor flag were more than repaid.

The enrollment at L.S.U. this year is expected to be more than 1,100 when it comes to completion for the entire year. The Freshman class is the largest in history. Six new additions have been made to the faculty—The Reveille.

It Wakes You Up
Cattel - Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gretson, Mgr.

WRIGLEY'S
The students and alumni of the University of Georgia have begun a drive for a million dollars, the purpose in view being the erection of a million-dollar memorial to the Georgia men who lost their lives in the war—The Red and Black.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES “an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y.
Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N.C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
75 Chambers
“After Every Meal”