A CAPTURE ITAL DEL ADETS | _ a SO IAN SUPPORT PRESS ASS’N MEETINGS FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 22, 1921. No. 28

Wake Forest Secures Close Decision In Intercollegiate Debate at Raleigh

Lively Debate on Cancellation of United States War Loans to Allies Held at Meredith College—Davidson Men Put Up Strong Fight

On Friday night, April 15th, at the Meredith College auditorium in Raleigh, Wake Forest and Davidson met in the sixth of the series of intercollegiate debates between the two colleges. Wake Forest was represented by Messrs. L. M. Butler and R. S. Averitt, with Mr. Hugh E. Monteith as alternate and business manager. Davidson was represented by Bitzer and Gamble, with Dwight Miller as alternate and business manager. The query was, “Resolved, That the United States should cancel the loans made to her allies during the great war,” with Davidson upholding the affirmative.

Bitzer and Gamble based their contention for the cancellation of the debts, which total approximately ten billion dollars, on the moral duty of the United States to cancel because the Allies had to bear by far the larger part of the cost of the war in men and money and property losses; on the political advisability of cancellation, in that it would help unite the Allies in requiring full settlement by Germany, strengthen the ties between the United States and the Allies, and restore to the United States her moral leadership of the world; and on the economic need and wisdom of cancellation due to the facts that the Allies need cancellation, the U. S. cannot afford to cancel, and the U. S. cannot afford not to cancel for she needs to have trade resumed to relieve business depression in this country.

Messrs. Butler and Averitt contended that the United States had done her part, that cancellation was not a proper way to win the friendship of the Allies, that it would not furnish proper relief, and that it would put an undue burden on the American taxpayer. The speeches were on the whole well delivered. The rejoinders were very spicy and with one exception the bell found the debaters anxious to proceed with the discussion. Each team made a strong effort to win the approval of the audience and especially of the judges, but the Wake Forest style of debate proved to be more “taking.” The local men report a fine trip. They (Continued on page 3)

COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION TO BE GUESTS OF LOCAL PAPERS

Beginning Friday afternoon and lasting through Saturday night, the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its convention at Davidson. The delegates will be the guests of the Davidson College Magazine and The Davidsonian. There will be about 30 delegates, approximately a dozen of whom will be young ladies. Eris Cassell, president of the association, announces the following general program:

Friday Afternoon—Registration and meeting of executive committee.
Friday Night—Address of welcome, by Prof. A. Currie; Response by Mr. C. W. Weathers, of Wake Forest; Address by Mr. Wade H. Harris, of the Charlotte Observer.
Saturday—Address on the Literary Magazine, by Prof. E. J. Erwin; Address on Advertising, by Carl J. Matthews; Address on The Managing Editor's Job, by Mr. Jonathan Daniels, of Carolina.
Saturday Afternoon—Delegates guests of Athletic Association at ball game.
Saturday Night—Banquet; Reception by Sigma Upsilon.

Varsity Down Scrubs in Spring Football Practice

Brown, Shepard and Bethea Do Star Work—Prospects Good for Strong Team

The football Scrubs went down in defeat before the terrific onslaught of the Varsity by the score of 35 to 0 Saturday afternoon. Although the Kittens put up a hard and scrappy fight, the game was the Varsity’s from beginning to end, the ball seldom staying in their territory for any length of time and not once did the Scrubs threaten to score.

First blood was drawn by the Wildcat machine when “Rooster” McFadden dashed across the line for a touchdown in the first quarter. No other scoring was done until in the second quarter Gig Shepherd, stiff-arming right and left, ran 20 yards for an additional seven points. The half closed with the ball in the possession of the Scrubs near the center of the field.

The second half opened with McFadden kicking off to Overton, who returned the ball five yards. However, the Scrubs were soon forced to punt after several failures to gain and Leonard Dick reeled off two long runs in succession which added another touchdown to the credit of the Varsity. The most sensational event of the game came in the last quarter when McFadden passed 25 yards with the accuracy of a rifle to Schenck, who dashed 35 yards, dodging and twisting at every step, until he had placed the ball between the goal posts. After a few minutes of play Gig Shepherd scored his second touchdown of the evening and the final whistle blew shortly afterwards.

The success of the Varsity was largely due to the work of McFadden, Shepherd, and Schenck, while Brown and Moore, W. W., put up the best fight for the Scrubs.

OFFICERS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION CHOSEN FOR COMING YEAR

Last week the officers for the Athletic Association for next year were elected. “Rooster” McFadden was elected president; Sam Davis, vice-president, and Elias Faison, secretary. McFadden got a majority in the first ballot, but both the others had to run the second time. The vice-presidency lay between Davis and W. S. Shepherd, while Faison and Cox were high men in the first ballot for secretary. The elections were close and there was a great deal of interest shown. These men are all wearers of the “D” and it is certain that our Athletic Association is in good hands for the ensuing year. Those nominated for president were: McFadden and LaFar; for vice-president, Davis, Shepherd and Ogden; for secretary, Cox, Faison, Jones, R. R., and Beaver.

Mr. and Mrs. Sabotie of Mt. Airy and Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Wright of Winston-Salem spent the week-end in Davidson.

Pre-Eminent Importance of Soul Subject of Y Service---Address by Chalmers

Students Glad to Hear Their Y. M. C. A. Secretary and are Greatly Benefited

“Tho world on world in myriad myriads roll Round us, each with different powers And other forms of life than ours What know we greater than our soul?”

These lines express the theme of the talk by Dwight Chalmers, General Secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A, at the regular Sunday night meeting. He began by pointing out that we could not lightly consider our souls because of their intangibility. Electricity, energy, gravitation, and our minds are all alike invisible and intangible, but we know they are real because of their effects. Likewise we cannot explain ourselves without our souls. Man’s longing for something higher, his instinctive admiration of goodness, purity, truth, honor, and his feeling of love can never be explained in a materialistic or logical way. Genesis 2:7 gives the only explanation of man that has ever been satisfactory.

Most of us admit the reality of our souls, the speaker continued, but we balk at their supreme importance. There can be no question as to their importance because first of all they are immortal. Then again, to neglect them is to live a life of failure and disappointment. Many instances were cited by Dwight of men who had sought honor, wealth, self-indulgence, or power only to acknowledge failure.Later on. And finally, the life, death and teachings of Jesus prove conclusively the importance of the soul. The speaker told of a math professor who asked the brightest student in his class to solve (Continued on page 3)

Sigma Sigma Upsilon Initiates New Men by Interesting Stunts

Six Men of Literary Aims Received Into Blue Pencil Club

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity initiated six new members at the meeting held last Wednesday night. Those initiated at that time were: Ray Doubles, Roderick Shaw, James Sprunt, J. C. Bailey, George Cornelson, and R. R. McIlwaine. These men have all contributed articles of merit for the pages of the College Magazine as is required before their election to this order.

In connection with the initiation, the newly elected members performed in front of White Drug Store for the amusement of the crowd, each one dressed to represent some familiar character. Ray Doubles, dressed in blue organdy, with broad leghorn hat and representing the debutante of ten years, was accompanied by Jim Sprunt, in short trousers and sailor hat. R. R. McIlwaine represented the modern “Fop” of the seashore, while George Cornelson vividly portrayed the country lass. Rod Shaw brought back memories of the militant suffragette of ten years ago. Demosthenes was represented by J. C. Bailey in flowing robes of white and with a laurel crown. This motley crowd was then taken to the S. A. E. hall and duly initiated, after which a feed was enjoyed by all.

Victory Over Carolina Bright Spot in Hard Series of Games

Games Dropped to Wake Forest and N.C. State—Brown and Crawford Star With the Willow—Ratchford Plays Fine Fielding Game—Buck, Iron Man in Box

Tennis Match With Trinity to be Held Next Week

Cunningham, Morris, Ormond and Roberts Win Places On Team Through Tournament

The championship in the tennis tournament was won by Ed. Cunningham. Playing against the best that Davidson could offer, he came out on top by defeating Morris in the finals. Those men making the team to represent the Wildcats this spring were: Cunningham, Morris, Ormond, A. C., and Roberts. Due to illness, Bradley, one of last year’s representatives, was unable to play in the tournament but is to be used in some of the meets this season. This is a well-rounded bunch of racket swingers, on whom Davidson is depending for net honors.

A match has been arranged with Trinity for next week. Very little can be said as to the chance for a Wildcat victory, still it might be remembered that Davidson triumphed over the Methodist team last year in a hotly fought battle. However, Trinity took a match from Wake Forest who in turn won from Davidson later in the season. This would make the matter rather complicated. For this reason, the match next week will be watched with unusual interest. Several other matches have been scheduled for the next few weeks, including the S. I. A. A. tournament in Atlanta sometime in May. With this outlook, the team has gotten to work in earnest. After a little more practice, great things can be expected from the 1921 tennis team.

RISING JUNIORS AND SENIORS CHOOSE CLASS OFFICERS

The rising Junior Class elected its officers for next year last Thursday morning after the chapel exercises. The officers elected were as follows: President, S. M. Davis; vice-president, R. F. Davidson; secretary and treasurer, W. T. Elliott; student councilmen, C. D. Tuller, H. H. Smith, and F. C. Thames.

At a meeting of the rising Senior Class last Tuesday, T. M. Lowry was re-elected to lead the class for the second successive year. The other two members of the reigning trio are E. B. McGukin, vice-president, and S. D. Story, secretary. It is certain that the destiny of such an illustrious class will be guided in a capable manner by the above-named officers. The five student councilmen elected were: J. P. Price, J. C. Bailey, J. I. Knight, E. B. McGukin, and S. H. Cornelson. The editor-in-chief and business manager of the 1922 Quips and Cranks were also elected at this time, they being Rod K. Shaw and Walter Knox, respectively.

The Davidson Christian Endeavor Society enjoyed a social last Friday evening at the Potts home. There were about 45 young people present. Various games were enjoyed both indoors and on the lawn.

The result of the games since the last issue of The Davidsonian does not look so well from the percentage standpoint but with three of the games played on the road against the strongest teams in the state, and with a victory over the University on their home grounds, there is much room for encouragement. The batting averages show that the team has been doing some real clouting, and with a few less sore arms and a bit more luck, the remaining games should get on the right side of the ledger.

“Davidson Conquers Carolina in Great Rally.”

After the Elon game, the Wildcats went to Chapel Hill with the determination to “Beat Carolina,” and their determination was fully carried out. When ten innings of rather loose but desperate playing had gone into the past, Davidson showed the inhabitants of Chapel Hill her true worth and ran off with a nine to five victory which will remain imprinted on the minds of the students of the State school for many days. It was not only meritorious for our team to defeat the Tar Heels, but also to defeat them on their own grounds.

At the beginning of the eleventh inning, the Carolina nine cracked under the strain of Davidson's hitting, and the victors sent five runs across the plate. In this inning, Johnson and Ratchford got on and then Fred Morris’ low throw let in one run, sacrifice flies by Hodgin and Cassel sent two more across, and then Crawford, who was hitting fiercely all afternoon, drove one through the hedge in deep center for a home run, scoring Brown ahead of him. The proteges of Coach Hengevelt were off to a flying start in the first when Sheppard’s triple after singles by Cassel and Crawford sent two across. They picked up two more in the fifth and sixth, with Brown’s double featuring in the sixth. Currie was meantime pitching masterly ball and could not be hit (Continued on page 2)

CALENDAR.

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi Society Meeting.
Friday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Trinity, at Winston-Salem. 7:15 p.m., Meeting of Bible Class Leaders. 9:00 p.m., Reporters’ Club Meeting.
Saturday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Citadel, at Davidson. Track meet with Clemson at Clemson. 7:15 p.m., Movies: Mary Miles Minter in “Anne Of Green Gables.” 9:00 p.m., Eu Society Meeting.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Study Classes. 3:30 p.m., Dr. Frazer Hood’s Sunday School Class. 6:15 p.m., “Y” Service: Inauguration Ceremonies.
Monday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Furman, at Greenville.
Tuesday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Clemson, at Clemson. 7:15 p.m., Meeting of Volunteer Band. 7:15 p.m., Meeting of Polity Club.
Wednesday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Wofford, at Spartanburg. Tennis meet at Greensboro.