JUNIOR SPEAKING. (Continued from page 1)

with two one-act plays presented at Shearer Hall on the evening of March 9. The two plays were: “The Lost Silk Hat,” by Lord Dunsany and “The Florist Shop,” by Winifred Hawkbridge.

The first play, while effectively presented, was marred by the constant arrival of latecomers. The scene of this play was laid in the street in front of a London residence where the caller was beseeching, indiscriminately, each passerby, to go into the house and bring him his silk hat which he had unfortunately left within. The Laborer and the Clerk, passing in quick succession, refused him aid in the matter. Then the Poet came on the scene. He, too, was requested to obtain the desired article but refused also. His mind then seemed to wander slightly. The caller went in to get his hat and the rest of the cast appeared. The Policeman commented on the apparent mindlessness of the Poet but the Laborer says, “you should have seen the other one.” The acting of Fred Thompson as the Caller was the feature of this play, but the rest of the cast supported him in a very interesting manner.

The Cast:
The Caller—F. N. Thompson.
The Laborer—J. H. McKeithen.
The Clerk—H. K. Russell.
The Poet—J. M. Gaston.
The Policeman—W. J. Cooper.

The second play, The Florist Shop, was a tremendous success. The action took place within the limit of Slovsky’s Florist Shop. The story centered around the engagement of Mr. Jackson to Miss Wells. Their troth had been plighted for more than 15 years and showed no signs of coming to a joyous completion. Maude, the clerk at Slovsky’s, when looking over the books, noticed that Miss Wells had sent Mr. Jackson an Easter Lily every year for the last 15 years. Her sympathy is aroused and she sends Miss Wells anonymously an expensive corsage of orchids. Miss Wells inquires as to the sender and Maude describes a romantically perfect man. When Slovsky discovers the expense of Maude’s sympathy he exclaims, “Beesness is beesness and seempathy is all right but you got enough for a whole wholesale house; you is fired, a week ago already.” However, he had scarcely finished speaking when Mr. Jackson and Miss Wells enter. Having been awakened, he demands that she throw away the corsage of orchids and he buys her some violets. Then they set the date for the wedding. Slovsky promptly reinstates Maude and realizes the value of her “seempathy” in the florist business.

Al Wilson, playing the part of Slovsky, did some very effective character acting while the efforts of Dave Forgey, as Miss Wells, were a main factor in the success of the play. Beaver’s work as Mr. Jackson was very effective and the difficult and important role of Maude was played by “Tubby” Woolfork to perfection. Bob Gordon, in holding down the part of Harry the office boy, ably demonstrated his dramatic ability in taking the part at a few hours' notice. Altogether the plays were a tremendous success and were a credit both to the casts and to Professor Erwin, the director.

JUNIOR RECEPTION.

After the entertainment given by the Dramatic Club Saturday evening, the members of the Junior class were hosts at an informal reception given at the gymnasium for the faculty, the student body, and their lady visitors. Everyone was in a happy mood and ready for a good time. The doors opened promptly at 10 o'clock and the gym floor was soon covered with couples. In each corner of the room stood a refreshment stand, where delicious punch and cakes were served. The decorations were beautiful. A large post covered with purple and gold crepe paper stood in the middle of the room and seats for the band were grouped around it. From this central pole, long streamers of purple and gold paper extended in every direction giving a maypole effect. On the wall opposite, the numerals of ‘22 stood out prominently in their class colors. All around the walls of the building were hung numbers of college pennants and emblems. Throughout the reception, the band played in soft tones and added a large measure to the pleasure of those present. The guests were coming and going until almost 12 o'clock. Everyone present had a splendid time and the entertainment was declared a great success. Much credit and many thanks are due to those of the class of '22 who labored for the success of this and the other entertainments which they have given on this occasion. They have set a precedent which other classes will find difficulty in maintaining.

BAND CONCERT SUNDAY AFTERNOON.

One of the welcomed innovations introduced for Junior Speaking was the band concert given on the campus last Sunday afternoon. Promptly at 4:30 o'clock, Band Leader Freeman gathered his company of music makers about him on the grass in front of South Wing Chambers. A well-arranged program was presented to a large but scattered audience. A good percentage of the student body was present, with guests, and a number of the townspeople. A concert of this nature fills a need which has been felt for some time at Davidson; the program consisted of sacred pieces and several classical selections, and was very appropriate to the occasion. The student body as a whole and the Junior class in particular wish to take advantage of this opportunity to assure the members of the band of the sincere appreciation of their earnest efforts to make the occasion a most enjoyable one.

VISITORS PRESENT.

More youngLadies were present at the speaking than at any other event in the history of the college. The following is the list of the 134 who attended the exercises as the guests of the Junior class: Misses Dorothy Patterson, Charlotte, N. C.; Bennie McColl, Charlotte, N. C.; Louise Jennings, Charlotte, N. C.; Evelyn Sadler, Charlotte, N. C.; Madge Freeman, Charlotte, N. C.; Leda Williamson, Charlotte, N. C.; Ruth Morrison, Charlotte, N. C.; Lorene Brown, Charlotte, N. C.; Minnie Blair Porter, Charlotte, N. C.; Sarah Adelaide Mayer, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Atkins, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Fore, Charlotte, N. C.; Leonora Henderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Willie Blakeney, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Raymond, Charlotte, N. C.; Aileen Johnson, Charlotte, N. C.; Laura Devereux, Charlotte, N. C.; Aline Hargett, Charlotte, N. C.; Helen Foyle, Charlotte, N. C. Misses Anne Fraley, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret Deal, Statesville, N. C.; Lelia Kistlen, Statesville, N. C.; Jonsie Deal, Statesville, N. C.; Martha Jameson, Charlotte, N. C.; Ellen Victor, Charlotte, N. C.; Virginia Loving, Charlotte, N. C.; Alice Buchanan, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Bell Hering, Huntersville, N. C.; Lila Walker, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Victoria Earle, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Elizabeth Brown, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Julia Schoepf, Asheville, N. C.; Mary Ansley, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret Anderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Cordelia Henderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Dorothy Powell, Charlotte, N. C.; Grace Shepard, Wilmington, N. C.; Opal Cole, Meridian, Miss.; Mary Howell, Belmont, N. C.; Elizabeth Dendy, Belmont, N. C.; Irene Shelton, Statesville, N. C.; Margaret Harleson, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Hill, Red Springs, N. C.; Martha Gibbs, Davidson, N. C.; Gladys Potts, Davidson, N. C.; Priscilla Hunt, Davidson, N. C.; Sarah Lingle, Davidson, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Cashon, Gastonia, N. C. Misses Erlene Johnston, Chester, S. C.; Virginia Pullen, Roland, N. C.; Mary Steele, Queen's College, Charlotte, N. C.; Lorraine Burgess, Mount Airy, N. C.; Katherine Hopper, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret Wooten, Charlotte, N. C.; Lizzie Young, Davidson, N. C.; Mrs. W. C. Houston, Concord, N. C. Misses Catherine Morgan, Columbia, S. C.; Frances McGuire, Asheville, N. C.; Eunice Blue, Raeford, N. C.; Rosalie Litch, Roland, N. C.; Sidney Caldwell, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Smith, Charlotte, N. C.; Catherine Long, Charlotte, N. C.; Margaret McCaskill, De Funiak Springs, Fla. Mrs. King, Columbia, S. C.; Mrs. McGuire, Asheville, N. C. Misses Mary Hamilton, Statesville, N. C.; Bessie Smith, Statesville, N. C.; Lula May Smith, Statesville, N. C.; Agnes Moore, Statesville, N. C.; Mary Lee White, Mooresville, N. C.; Hazel Houston, Mooresville, N. C.; Pearl Archie, Mooresville, N. C.; Margaret McAlpine, Clarksville, Ga.; Willene Asbury, Clarksville, Ga.; Ella Sherard, Ninety-Six, S. C.; Julia Hunter, Blenheim, S. C.; Idelle Townsend, Harrisburg, N. C.; Eva Dupuy, Mary Baldwin Seminary, Staunton, Va.; Susie Renick, Calloway, Va.; Eva Hickson, Asheville, N. C.; Lucy Carter, Greensboro, N. C.; Eliza Moore, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Lucy McGukin, La Grange, Ga.; Mildred Johnson, Hartwell, Ga.; Sarah Hamilton, Davidson, N. C.; Mildred Hobbs, Davidson, N. C.; Margaret Adams, Davidson, N. C. Mrs. R. E. McGukin, Hartwell, Ga.; Mrs. R. C. Mayer, Charlotte, N. C. Misses Hilda Sheets, Lexington, N. C.; Mildred Walser, Lexington, N. C.; Julia Young, Asheville, N. C.; Tatt Haskill, Charleston, S. C.; Baker Haskill, Charleston, S. C.; Lilian Floyd, Charlotte, N. C.; Laura Tillett, Charlotte, N. C.; Fannie Furlow, Charlotte, N. C.; Frances Holiday, Charlotte, N. C.; Augusta Williams, Charlotte, N. C.; Neal Reynolds, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Eloise Martin, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Bessie Irvin, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Margaret Hashigan, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Maude May Jesse, Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga.; Emma Floyd, Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga.; Margaret Overton, Salisbury, N. C.; Lula Stockard, Raleigh, N. C.; Sarah Irvin, Reidsville, N. C.; Mary O'Neal, Rock Hill, S. C.; Mildred Barbour, Charlotte, N. C.; Edith Gilchrist, Charlotte, N. C.; Eillen Johnson, Charlotte, N. C.; Henry Betk, Charlotte, N. C.; Gladys Burton, Reidsville, N. C.; Elizabeth Clary, Greensboro, N. C.; Katherine Arbogast, Monroe, N. C.; Lelia Coxe, Birmingham, Ala.; Juanita Sprinkle, Reidsville, N. C.; Carrie Floyd, Knoxville, Tenn.; Helen Everett, Knoxville, Tenn.; Bernice Zeigler, Orangeburg, S. C. Mrs. Heath Nisbet, Charlotte, N. C. Misses Mary Parks Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Nancy Grey, Davidson, N. C.; Delle Cross, Queens College, Charlotte, N. C.; Louise Gibbon, Charlotte, N. C.; Martha Lee, Charlotte, N. C.; Lucy Carson, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Keesler, Charlotte, N. C.; Lois Walker, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Bradham, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Elizabeth Armstrong, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Hellie Bethea, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Fay Roberts, Salem College, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Evelyn Connell, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Mary Nelson, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Catherine Leonard, Armstrong, Greensboro, N. C.; Willie Scoville, Orangeburg, S. C.; Dorothy Dorough, Atlanta, Ga.; Sallie Schenck, Greensboro, N. C. Mr. and Mrs. C. McDonald, Charlotte, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. Morris McDonald, Charlotte, N. C.

You get to smoking Camels because you appreciate their fine, refreshing flavor! And, you like them better all the time because they never tire your taste! Camels quality makes Camels so appetizing, so continuously delightful. And, Camels expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos gives them that wonderful mellow mildness. You have only to compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at any price to know personally that Camels are a revelation!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.