THE DAVIDSONIAN, Athletic News
FEBRUARY 4, 1921.

Speaking of Sports
Revenge is Sweet.

To say that our domestic crimson and ebony animals were the least bit wild, last weekend, would not begin to explain—why man alive, that quint was “beaucoup wild.”

——Wildcats——

Davidson 51, Guilford 14.

Tearing into the Quakers’ defense, and utterly annihilating the enemy, the Red and Black machine rolled up a half-century of points in quick fashion. All this happened on Friday.

——Wildcats——

Davidson 45, N. C. State 14.

‘Twas a busy time the scorer had adding up the results of Saturday's contest. The only time the Engineers looked dangerous was when the opening whistle blew. After that—you tell ’em.

——Wildcats——

Not since the season of ‘17-18 has the style of passing and aggressive playing been demonstrated by a Wildcat five. Not a hitch marred the playing of the team in either of the two games.

——Wildcats——

Of the 96 points scored in the two contests, “Bill” Roberts donated 43. His shooting was positively spectacular and the Wilmington lad covered himself with glory.

——Wildcats——

“Johnny” Schenck played a remarkable floor game and was a mainstay on the offensive. His contribution totaled 28 points.

——Wildcats——

This week finds our worthies up in the Old Dominion. Last night they took on the University. Tonight they go up against the fast Elks Club of Lynchburg. Friday they will encounter the quint from Washington and Lee at Lexington.

——Wildcats——

The Elks Club has a fast aggregation of former collegiate stars and are putting up a splendid brand of ball. Their 39 to 23 victory over the University of Richmond must not be overlooked.

——Wildcats——

The Generals have not their usual good team this year and the Wildcats have their best chance in years against the White and Blue.

——Wildcats——

Next Tuesday finds as our visitors the quint from Elon. The Christians always put out a fast team and no doubt a snappy contest may be expected.

——Wildcats——

There are no direct comparative scores available yet on the Elon contest but the following results will soothe our eyes: Trinity, 59; Elon, 12. Trinity, 33; N. C. State, 11. This should indicate that N. C. State is 25 points better than Elon.

One week from tonight, we will lock horns with the University of Florida at home. The only games we can find out they have played are two against Stetson University of the same state. In each contest the “hat makers” trounced the University good.

——Wildcats——

The night following, the Bulldogs from Citadel will invade our camp. This quint has a great past record, but has hit rough going so far this year.

——Wildcats——

This Week’s Schedule.

Thursday, Feb. 3rd: Davidson vs. Elks Club, at Lynchburg. Univ. N. C. vs. V. M. I., at Lexington.

Friday, Feb. 4th: Davidson vs. W. and L., at Lexington. Univ. of N. C., vs. Georgetown, at Washington. Wake Forest vs. Guilford, at Guilford.

Saturday, Feb. 5th: Univ. N. C. vs. Army, at West Point. Wake Forest vs. Elon, at Elon.

Sunday, Feb. 6th: All teams keep their hand in by rolling the ivories.

Monday, Feb. 7th: Univ. N. C. vs. Rutgers, at New Brunswick. N. C. State vs. Univ. Fla., at Raleigh.

Tuesday, Feb. 8th: Davidson vs. Elon, at Davidson. Univ. N. C. vs. Univ. Maryland, at Baltimore. Trinity vs. Univ. Fla., at Durham.

Wednesday, Feb. 9th: Univ. N. C. vs. Navy, at West Point.

Thursday, Feb. 10th: Davidson vs. Univ. Fla., at Davidson. Univ. N. C. vs. Elks Club, at Lynchburg. Wake Forest vs. Guilford, at Wake Forest.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

WILDCATS LOSE HARD GAME TO CHARLOTTE “Y”

Last Few Minutes Prove Fatal to Davidson’s Basketeers.

On Tuesday, January 25th, the Wildcat basketeers journeyed down to the Queen City to meet the quintet from the Charlotte “Y.” The game was called at 8:30 p.m. on the floor of the Y. M. C. A. gym. From the start, the battle raged fast and furiously, Davidson, however, having quite the best of the show for the first half, which ended with the score 13-8 in favor of the D. C. visitors.

For the most part of the second half, the playing of each five was very nearly equal, so that, when time was called five minutes before the end, the score was 22-18, still in favor of the Red and Black. When the whistle blew to start at it again, the entire Y quint seemed rejuvenated. Starting out with a rush which the Davidsonians found impossible to stop, they rolled up a total of seven baskets in the few minutes which remained, while the best the Wildcats could do was to tally a single goal. The most brilliant performer in this last bit of play was Stewart, of the “Y,” who scored a total of eight points in those five fatal minutes.

While the whole Davidson quint played stellar ball, if there were any stars to be selected they were John Schenck and Romefelt. Schenck rang up a total of 12 points for the evening’s work, while the steady play and excellent jumping of Romeo did much to keep down the Charlotte score.

The line-up:

Davidson (24) Charlotte “Y” (32)
Position.
Roberts (8) ................ Marsh (2) R. F.
Schenck, J. (12) ........ Stewart (12) L. F.
Romefelt (2) ............. Howell (6) C.
Schenck, L. (c) ........ Cuthbertson (4) R. G.
Davis (2) ................ Cunningham (2) L. G.

Substitutes: Crawford for Roberts, Ormond for Schenck, L., Price for Davis, Carr (6) for Marsh.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1971——

WILDCATS INVADE VA. FOR THREE GAMES

Univ. of Va., Elks Club of Lynchburg, and Washington and Lee to be Met.

The Davidson hoop-artists open up their invasion in Virginia on Wednesday night, February 2nd, when they meet the University of Va. five at Charlottesville. The following night they play the Elks Club at Lynchburg and end up with Washington and Lee at Lexington on the night of the 4th. These three teams are among the strongest of their state. However, Davidson hopes to come out with a clean slate of victories to her credit.Credit. According to comparative scores, even though the season is still young, the University of Virginia seems to be the stronger of the three. Thus meeting their most to be feared rival on the first night, the others will be met according to their respective standing, next the Elks Club and then Washington and Lee. Davidson should stand a pretty fair chance of winning the series even though none of these squads are to be lightly considered. The Wildcats’ recent victories over Guilford and N. C. State colleges will start them off in good running order, with lots of the old Davidson fighting spirit, which will be hard to overcome even by such strong opponents. Hard work and a friendly spirit of rivalry have been the chief characteristics of the squad during the past few days, every man being anxious to show his best form in hopes of winning a place among the select seven who make this first long trip of the season.

ROOM IN GYMNASIUM FITTED UP TO ACCOMMODATE VISITING TEAMS

The room on the first floor of the new Gymnasium which was used as a social center last year has been thoroughly outfitted for the use of visiting athletic teams on the Hill. There has been a great need for such a place for the men on other teams to sleep as well as for the dressing room in the basement. Ten beds have been put in it along with all the necessary accompaniments thereto, affording all the teams which play here as much comfort as possible while they are with us. Davidson always has been noted for its hospitality and this added step will only increase her reputation in this respect.

GUILFORD AND N. C. STATE (Continued from page 1)

Crawford (6) - McBane R. G.
Schenck, L. B. - Cox L. G.
Subs: Davidson—McConnell (2) for Roberts; Shepherd (2) for Schenck, L.; Price for Crawford, Mauze for Romefelt, Ormond for Schenck, J. Guilford—Raeford for McBane. Referee: Christenberry (Boston Braves); timekeeper: Dr. Douglas; scorer: Shepard, N. W.

N. C. State Game.

Sweet was the revenge of the Wildcats on N. C. State when they took the Agriculturists into camp by rolling up 45 markers while the boys from Raleigh were amassing the unlucky number of 13. The five from State seemed to have the advantage over the Presbyterians in height and weight but they could not match the passing and basket shooting that they were up against. The Davidson quint got a healthy start on their season on Friday night when they played Guilford and the impetus gained in that game was not to be denied when the State gang tried to stop their basket throwing. The teamwork and passing of the Wildcat five has improved and in basket tossing their work was splendid. Roberts, Davidson’s left forward, was the high point scorer of the battle, having more than twice as many points marked up after his name as the whole State team was able to make. It seemed that whenever he got his hands on the ball that it just naturally fell through the hoop without further ado. He shot ten field goals and seven fouls. Schenck and Crawford at guards played a stellar brand of ball, keeping the State forwards from getting the ball inside the danger zone and smothering any attempt at a rally or comeback. Crawford shot several pretty goals and his floor work was exceptionally good. “Johnnie” Schenck was the mainstay of the offensive, traveling up and down the floor with the speed of a frightened antelope, and always advancing the ball toward his own goal. The Davidson “V” threw 19 field goals during the course of the fray against the three field goals of State. Deal, of State, however, dropped seven free throws through the hoop to match the seven which Roberts tossed.

Summary:
Davidson. Position. N. C. State.
Schenck, J. R. (6) - Deal (7) R. F.
Roberts (26) - Williams (2) L. F.
Romefelt (6) - Curtis (4)
Crawford (4) - Park R. G.
Schenck, L. B. - Whitner L. G.
Substitutions: Davidson—McConnell for Schenck, J., Ormond for Roberts, DeArmond for Crawford, Price for Schenck, Shepherd (2) for Price. State—Vicar for Deal, Weaver for Johnson, Weaver. Referee: Caswell; timekeeper: Douglas; scorer: Shepard.

The heretofore inadequate system of seating spectators at games in the gym is now a thing of the past. The three-tier set of seats in the balcony handles the populace of the town very comfortably while on the gym floor proper, a like arrangement serves to seat most of the student body. This has been a long-needed improvement and students along with the town folk appreciate the work.

CAMP SAPPHIRE BREVARD, N. C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, bathing, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, Director Chapel Hill, N. C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director Davidson, N. C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

Our Motto: NONE TOO SMALL

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship. “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice President
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
NONE TOO LARGE