THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1921.

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES
PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN
TAYLOR QUALITY EQUIPMENT
TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL, TRACK, CAMP
BATES, GOOD
MEL TAYLOR
26 E. 42 ST.
The Macamac Company Agents
The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY and COLLEGE JEWELERS
618 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY
Have these old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N.C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts
CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298

CORNELIUS LEADS IN SUNDAY S. ATTENDANCE

In spite of the bad weather and the snow on the ground, the “Y” Sunday Schools had good attendances Sunday. On account of the impassable condition of the roads, the boys could not reach Oak Grove and consequently there is no report. The five teachers at Caldwell were entertained at one of the homes for supper after Sunday School. It is rumored that they had four kinds of dessert and therefore ten teachers will go next Sunday. The report follows:

Present. Teachers.
Cornelius ............... 64 4
Shearer .................. 40 7
Caldwell ................. 33 5
Brawleys ................. 3 4
Oak Grove ............. No report
Mill Chapel ............ 46 4

——We Want 16 Class Reunions in 1921——

STUDENTS TO ADDRESS Y. M. C. A. NEXT SUNDAY

The Y. M. C. A., of course, aims to develop the students as much as possible along religious lines. With this in view, plans have been on foot for some time to have some of the students themselves speak at the regular Sunday night meeting. One of these meetings has been arranged for next Sunday, when Flynn Long, “Jick” Taylor, and C. K. Brown will speak. It is hoped that the students will come out in large numbers to give these men a hearty reception. The following Sunday, Dr. McCrory and his famous colored quartet from Biddle University, Charlotte, will be on the hill. The enthusiastic comments of the students when this matter was first discussed seem to indicate a big crowd will hear Dr. McCrory. Certainly, the “special music” which has attracted so much attention in the past few meetings will go under, eclipsed on this night.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

DAVIDSON BIBLE CLASS ELECTS OFFICERS

D. R. Freeman Is First President.

Much interest was manifested by the announcement that Dr. Fraser Hood would take charge of the Davidson Bible Class, and about 70 men assembled for the first meeting on Sunday, January 23rd. The second meeting, which was held in the Phi Society hall last Sunday afternoon, marked the beginning of a new custom on the campus. At this meeting, officers were elected. D. R. Freeman will be the first president, G. B. Sorrells, vice-president, and H. H. Smith, secretary and treasurer. In the future, this class will be held in a section of the Sunday School at the church. The interesting way in which Dr. Hood presents the lesson, together with his strong personality, makes him an ideal teacher for young men. Students who do not use this opportunity to learn more about the vital things of life are losing something worthwhile.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

STUDY OF NEW BOOK BEGUN BY SUNDAY MORNING CLASSES

Bible study has taken the place of mission study on the hill and under the leadership of Jim McKeldin, chairman of the Bible study committee, work along this line has taken a new start. Beginning with last Sunday morning, a new book, “How Jesus Met Life Questions,” by Harrison S. Elliott, was used as a basis of the discussion. As there are 29 chapters in this book and only 16 more Sundays before the summer vacation, a committee has been appointed to choose the best 16 chapters for our study. Copies of this book may be obtained at the book room and it is hoped that as many as can will obtain them. Last Sunday morning, 279 men attended the opening meeting of these discussion groups.

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

“Uneducated people use bad grammar, half-educated people use good grammar; really cultivated people use any grammar they please.”

Christian Activities

WOODROW WILSON ON THE BIBLE

This is What President Wilson Wrote for the Testaments for the Soldiers and Sailors.

“The Bible is the word of life. I beg that you will read it and find this out for yourselves—read, not little snatches here and there, but long passages that willreally be the road to the heart of it. You will find it full of real men and women not only, but also of the things you have wondered about and been troubled about all your life, as men have been always; and the more you read the more it will become plain to you what things are worth while and what are not, what things make men happy—loyalty, right dealing, speaking the truth, readiness to give everything for what they think their duty, and most of all, the wish that they may have the real approval of the Christ, who gave everything for them—and the things that are guaranteed to make men unhappy—selfishness, cowardice, greed and everything that is low and mean. When you have read the Bible you will know that it is the Word of God, because you will have found it the key to your heart, your own happiness and your own duty.”

——We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

MINISTERIAL BAND.

The Ministerial Band met Sunday afternoon for a short meeting. After the regular devotional exercises, Albert Wildman, J. O. Knight and Buck Curry made interesting informal talks. It is hoped that every ministerial student will come to the meetings.

—We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921—

BRIEF BITS OF R. O. T. C. NEWS.

All men who expect to go to the summer camp this year will have to be vaccinated soon, as the cold weather is the best time. The camp this summer will be held at Chattanooga, one of the most beautiful and historic of Southern cities.

A band concert is planned for Washington’s birthday. Band Leader Freeman has not yet made all his plans, but will soon have completed them.

The rifle range will be completed for use on March the 1st. Each man in the corps will be allowed to fire 200 rounds. A rifle team of 20 is to be picked. They will be allowed to use all the ammunition they wish. They will not leave the hill, but the comparative scores will be sent to the other colleges and the winner will be announced.

Hereafter classes that are missed will be made up by handing in an outline of the work covered in the recitation missed. The drill will be made up some afternoon when there is nothing to conflict.

The faculty has decided that punishment tours of one hour for each excess demerit will be walked off on Saturday afternoons from two to six. The cadet officers do not have to walk but are under pledge to remain in their room during the time indicated.

The snow last week having interrupted the map making in the R. O. T. C. department, the time was taken up by the showing of moving pictures of actual map sketching, as done by Uncle Sam’s regulars in the field. The pictures were interesting as well as instructive. They began with a panorama view of a valley with its small farms, village, railroads, streams, etc., and then showed a correctly drawn map of this same area. Different signs were given to show the varied physical features that must be represented on a map of this nature and also how to determine distances from different points.

To make it plainer a view of the country was shown from an aeroplane and how the contours of a mountain would look to a person from that position. The pictures were well worth seeing and will be a great aid to Uncle Sam's future map sketchers.

—We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921——

“The devil can do many things but he cannot write poetry.”

BALFOUR BLUE BOOK 1921

The Standard Reference for Fraternity Jewelry will be mailed on application

L. G. BALFOUR CO.
Attleboro, Mass.

Badges
Plaques
Jewelry
Stationery

Wholesale Distributor
Ford Boltless Front Springs
Ford (Heavy) 8 Leaf Springs
Ford (Heavy) Rear Springs
Ford Complete Tops (Touring)
Ford Complete Tops (Roadster)
Ford Side Curtains
American Flash Lights
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries
Columbia Dry Cell Batteries

Ask for Quotations

J. S. WINGO
SPARTANBURG, S. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning service makes distance no detriment. Prints finished in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy finish.

GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., - - Atlanta, Georgia

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories