The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Saturday night. Articles received from an unknown source
will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
J. E. McPHAIL

Managing Editor
P. O. SPRUILL

Assistant Managing Editor
P. ORMOND

Assignment Editor
F. A. DOUBLES

Athletic Editor
J. McKEITHEN

Alumni Editor
W. C. McCASKILL

Exchange Editor
J. E. OULWARE

Forum Editor
H. POUNLAX

Campus Editor
B. W. ROBERTS

Y. M. C. A. Editor
B. H. HILL

Social Editor
R. GASTON, JR.

Literary Editor
CLUB

Ogden, D. H. Ormond, A. C. Phillips, J. W. Sprunt, J. Summers, A. C. Tuller, C. D. Wool, J. C.

REPORTERS
King, A. D. Lacy, T. A. Long, C. G. Mahood, D. L. Mauze, G. W. Mitchell, A. M. Morris, H.
M. Lowrance, D. W. Bailey, J. C. Bitzer, R. Cooper, W. J. Cunningham, C. E. Davidson, R. F. Gamble, W.
A. Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
C. J. MATTHEWS

Assistant Managers
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
C. H. LONG

Assistant Manager
C. WOOL

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Do not try to hide that lazy inclination under the old expression of spring fever. This is just a nice
way of excusing yourself. Get to work and forget about it.

All reports would indicate that our Wrestling Team gave a good account of itself considering the fact that they had
not received any coaching in this sport. We admire the gameness of the men who will tackle teams who are
under the care of professional instructors.

We are glad to learn that the aftermath of Junior Speaking was much better than usual this year.

Do not forget that you are an active member of the Greater Davidson Club. Remember the goal for next year.

We are still in the market for a holiday Easter Monday. Everybody pull for this.

In a recent issue there was a comment on the last issue of the Magazine as being the “Mitchell Bush.”
This should have appeared in the Peanut Parcher, and not as a comment on this publication as The Davidsonian is
not a “Knockers Association.” No one can gainsay us in the statement that the Magazine has made wonderful progress this
year.

THE PRESS ASSOCIATION CONTESTS.

The North Carolina College Press Association recently formed at Chapel Hill has laid special emphasis upon writing contests to be
held twice a year for magazine and newspaper publications. We take this time to call to the attention of the
students of Davidson that this is an opportunity to serve their college in a way that will do much in
placing her name before the people of this State. Space does not permit a detailed explanation of the rules of
these contests, only to say that anyone working for either the Davidsonian or the Magazine is eligible. The Magazine will
be allowed three contestants in short story, sketch, and verse respectively while this publication will be allowed one, he to
submit three articles; namely, feature story, opinion, and straight news item. The reward to the winner will be a full
write-up of his college career in all the publications throughout the State. The editors of the Magazine and Davidsonian will
be glad to assist any man in entering these contests, and it is urged that many do so in order
for Davidson not to lag behind in a movement that is being enthusiastically received by the other colleges of the
State.

WHICH WAY SHALL IT BE?

This time of our school year marks an important period in the future of the various college activities on the
Hill. By this we mean that the middle of March sees the first student body elections of the leaders of
the different organizations for the coming year, and the choice of these men as to fitness for their special work
is left to the individual voters of our College. It is easy enough to talk about voting for the best
man, but when it comes to actual practice, personal likes and dislikes, prejudices and other things enter into such a
degree it is difficult sometimes to cast your ballot for the man whom you know to be the most capable.
For this reason we should be very careful in order that we may be fair not only to ourselves, but
to the candidates and our College. The Y. M. C. A. and Davidsonian elections are to be conducted in a
day or so, and we would urge that in your choice of leaders for these organizations that you be especially
careful as to their ability and fitness for the task that lies before them. Do not vote for a man
just because he is your friend or a frat brother. Let your motives be higher than this. Push aside any
fraternity or non-fraternity spirit, personal grudges and animosities. Rise above these so that the right man may be selected for
the right position, for only by so doing can we hope to launch upon a successful year the organizations heretofore
mentioned.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

Open Forum

WHO WILL TAKE CHARGE?

Lately we have been sending out deputations of students to present the cause of missions to people out of college
and out of direct touch with this work. With Davidson excellent advertisement while presenting their own cause. But, why would
it not be well to broaden out along this line and send out deputations to present the cause of Christian
Education? There are strong men in both the Junior and Senior classes who would be glad to go to the
various city high schools and preparatory schools throughout the state. These men could address the Senior classes of these schools,
and have interviews with individual students, thus picking out the men who will stick at Davidson and really be assets
to the college.

In some parts of this and neighboring states Davidson is thought of only as a school for training preachers. But
they miss the point and consequently there are parts of the country where we fail to get men at all.
Every year we get “dead timber” that hang on for a time and then drop out, leaving nothing accomplished either
for themselves or for the college. But by sending out students to present Davidson to prospective college men we could
eliminate much of the dead timber at the start, and give the men who will amount to something their opportunity.

En Avant.

R. O. T. C. AREA INSPECTOR VISITS DAVIDSON

Especially Pleased With Work of Advanced Class.

On Thursday, March 10th, Col. McKinley inspected the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit. Colonel McKinley, who is stationed at
Ft. McPherson, having charge of all R. O. T. C. work in this corps area is considered one of the
best authorities on junior military training in our army. Though his inspection was conducted along informal lines, from all reports
it made a favorable impression upon him. While here, he looked over the armory, rifle range, pistol range, visited a
class and viewed the drilling of the various groups. He considered the armory the best in the area, the rifles
being in excellent condition and the equipment clean and orderly. The rifle and pistol range he also thought good, but
mentioned the fact that better results could be obtained if an inside gallery for use in winter could be provided.
While attending Major Hearn’s advanced class he paid the studentsa rare compliment saying, “I don't believe I could do nearly
as well as you young men.” Major Hearn introduced him to the members of the class and according to the
students the Colonel is a splendid fellow. At drill hour he watched the various classes at work and while he
made no official statement as to how he would recommend the battalion, it is evident that the good work of
men and officers was appreciated. Colonel McKinley expressed the wish that one hundred men would enlist for the summer camp
at Oglethorpe so that a Davidson company may be formed. He commented favorably upon the spirit of the men thinking,
as did the previous inspector, that it was the best he had ever seen. Major Hearn has been working for
a “Distinguished Rating” for Davidson. As only four are awarded by the War Department in this area, which is composed
of all the southern states east of the Mississippi, it is an honor worth working for. The official communication from
Colonel McKinley as to the rating of the college is expected soon. Work for a better Unit at Davidson!

Prof. W. M. Pickens, of Salisbury High School, and his five debaters, Fred Burke, Robert Walker, Arnold Walser, Jack Austin,
and Samuel Tatum, spent Saturday afternoon using the library in preparation for a debate against Concord.

Miss Mamie McElwee, of Statesville, so pleasantly known to many of the students, was one of last week's visitors.

Mrs. Fred J. Hay, of Kings Mountain, N. C., is visiting her mother, Mrs. Lola Johnston.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Lecture at Trinity. Dr. Paul S. Reinsch, an authority on political science and at present employed as counsellor in Washington
by the Chinese government, has been secured to deliver the first series of annual lectures on “Citizenship” provided for by
an endowment lectureship in honor of the late John McTyire Flowers. The lectures are on March 29th, 30th, and 31st.
Benjamin N. Duke, of New York and Durham, provided the lecture series as a memorial to the late Mr. Flowers
several years ago, but the series by Dr. Reinsch will mark their inauguration. —Trinity Chronicle.

Junior Class at Trinity Starts Plan for Student Government. Starting in a modest way one of the most constructive movements
that has been set on foot in the college community in recent years, the Junior class of Trinity College in
a class meeting a few days ago, launched the beginning of a campaign for Student Government at Trinity College. Every
member of the class realized the seriousness of the movement that was being set on foot, and opinion was given
by various members of the class in a serious manner. The main point under discussion was the best method of
securing the beginnings of a movement leading to the establishment of Student Government. —Trinity Chronicle.

We wonder why some of the college politicians don’t adopt a platform of hot water in the dormitories. There's no
doubt but that it would be a winning plank in their platforms and we'd be willing to throw our support
in their favor.

For Boys Only. (Read backwards)—Didn’t you if girls be wouldn't you, it read would you knew: we—The Georgetonian.

Coach Clay Trying to Perfect Bunting. Coach Clay of Georgia Tech, claims a new creation for the perfection of his
batting system. Between first and third base he has a number of flags; around these flags small circles have been
drawn. The main idea is to be able to bunt the ball, planting it in the correct ring. So adept
have some of the pill swatters taken to this system that they close their eyes and place the ball where
they want it. A golf course around the infield—what next? —The Technique.

Southern Oratorical Contest Held at Chapel Hill. The annual contest of the Southern Oratorical League was held at Chapel Hill
Friday night. There were representatives from Johns Hopkins, the Universities of Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Carolina, and most
of the prominent colleges of the South. —The Tar Heel.

Most men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and economy in a
good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the briar bowl break in sweet
and mellow. Pick a good shape at your nearest dealer’s, at your price.

Dr. Paul Reinsch Delivers Citizenship Lecture.

WILDCAT WRESTLING TEAM (Continued from page 1) hold for over four minutes; by a quick turn, winning in five minutes
time. In the 125 pound class Cromartie of Davidson won great applause by bridging, but lost a decision to Cothran
of W. and L. after wrestling to a draw; an extra six minutes deciding the match. W. M. Davis of
Davidson succumbed to Southerland of W. and L. in the 135 pound class after four minutes and 45 seconds by
a body hold and half-Nelson. In the 145 pound class J. Schenck of Davidson put up a good fight against
Hampton, W. and L.'s captain who won a decision in one minute and 22 seconds. Heizer of Davidson won a
decision over Ogden thus making Davidson's three points, in the 158 pound class. In the 175 pound class, W. W.
Carter of Davidson lost a fall to Asbury of W. and L. by an arm lock, in two minutes and
30 seconds. Clark of Davidson lost a fall to Asbury of W. and L. in the unlimited class by a
body pin hold after two minutes and 45 seconds. All of the Davidson men did very credibly, considering their newness
at the game while, Asbury of W. and L. accomplished the unusual in throwing two opponents in succession in the
same evening.

V. M. I. Match. Meeting a superior team both in training and in weight, the Wildcat wrestlers were defeated by
the grapplers of Virginia Military Institute in their gymnasium last Saturday night. The cadets have been under the coaching of
a professional wrestler since last November and have had the experience of several contests so far this season. Considering the
handicap they were under, the local team put up a creditable fight against their larger opponents. Each match was interesting
and a fight all the way through. All the Davidson men were thrown except Cromartie, who defeated the V. M.
I. captain after a nine minute contest. A summary of the contest is as follows: 115 pound class: Cummings, D.
C., lost to Venable, V. M. I., by a fall, body pin hold, in three and one-half minutes. 125 pound
class: Murrell, V. M. I., lost to Cromartie, D. C., by decision in nine minutes. 135 pound class: Davis, W.
M., D. C., lost to his opponent in nine minutes. 145 pound class: Parrott, V. M. I., threw Schenck, D.
C., in three and one-half minutes. 158 pound class: Heizer, D. C., was thrown by Venable, S., V. M. I.,
in one minute. 170 pound class: Carter, D. C., lost to Venable, S., V. M. I., in 14 minutes. Heavyweight
class: Clarke, D. C., was thrown in two and one-half minutes. Cromartie, the only successful Davidson entrant, was about evenly
matched with Murrell, the cadet captain, and won by decision at the end of nine minutes fast wrestling. Bill Davis
put up a game fight but the great strain was a little too much and his system gave way at
the last minute causing him to lose the match. In the 145 pound class, a good match was staged between
John Schenck and Parrott of the cadets, the latter winning. It was fast and interesting. The most thrilling match of
the contest was that in which “Nick” Carter and Venable took part. Venable is the best intercollegiate wrestler of his
class.

Most men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and economy in a
good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the briar bowl break in sweet
and mellow. Pick a good shape at your nearest dealer’s, at your price. —Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK. WORLD'S
LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.
