THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921

LITERARY NEWS

RAY WALDRON PETTINGILL

Ray Waldron Pettingill was born at Augusta, Maine, in 1885. After a public school education in Augusta, he attended Bowdoin College, where he received his A.B. degree in 1905. After receiving his degree at Bowdoin, he was an instructor in the Perkins Institution for the Blind, Boston. He then studied in the Universities of Göttingen and Bonn, Germany, later going to Harvard as a Teaching Fellow in German. He took his M.A. at Harvard in 1909 and his Ph.D. there in 1910. He then taught continuously at Harvard from 1907 through 1910 and at Radcliffe College from 1910 to 1921. In the summer sessions of 1912 and 1914, he was an instructor at Middlebury College.

In 1910, he married a daughter of Dr. George T. Little, for a long time a professor, then librarian at Bowdoin. For a number of years, Doctor Pettingill has assisted in conducting examinations and as a reader for the college entrance examination board. He is co-editor of several books, including a manual of military German (Harvard University Press) and author of a number of articles in the journals of English and German Philology. He is a member of the AKE and BK fraternities and the Modern Language Association of America.

Doctor Pettingill is in charge of all German and part of the English work at Davidson. Although he and Mrs. Pettingill and their two attractive sons have been in Davidson only a few months, they have made many friends among the faculty and the students, who consider them a happy addition to the Davidson community.

WILLIAM LORIMER PORTER

William Lorimer Porter was born of Scotch-Irish parentage in 1874 near Monmouth, Illinois. Soon after his birth, he was taken to Winterset, Ireland, and it was there that he spent his early boyhood and high school days. After finishing his high school work, he returned to the United States and entered Tarkio College, of Missouri. Upon his graduation from this college in 1896, he went to Connecticut where he taught in a private school for a short while before entering Yale University. In 1900, he graduated from Yale having secured his A.B. degree.

For the two years following his graduation from Yale, he was an instructor in Peddie Institute, of New Jersey. In 1902, he returned to Yale and obtained his M.A. degree. Shortly after finishing his studies at Yale, he was called to teach in Tarkio College. He taught only prep subjects at first, but in a short while, he had organized a department of Biology of which he was made the head. It was during the period he spent in Yale striving for his M.A. that he met Miss Caroline Bassett. They were married and in 1904, he took her to Missouri with him.

In the spring of 1905, Doctor and Mrs. Porter volunteered to serve as missionaries in India. They sailed in the following October for that far-off land. While in India, Doctor Porter occupied the chairs of English and Biology in Gordon College, one of the United Presbyterian institutions, situated in northern India. After having been in India four years, the health of Mrs. Porter necessitated an immediate return to the United States. After some time, Doctor Porter was again called in 1914 by Tarkio College to occupy the chair of Biology.

When the United States entered the World War, Doctor Porter immediately offered his services as a Y.M.C.A. worker and in June of 1918, he was sent to France, where he remained for 14 months. He was connected with the American troops for five months and the remaining nine he spent with the British Indian troops. During the year 1920-21, Doctor Porter occupied the chair of Biology in Austin College, Sherman, Texas. It is with great pleasure that he is this year welcomed to Davidson College as head of the Department of Biology.

Mayor J. O. Walker, of Charlotte, Davidson-Man

He has done a fine work during his city administration. James O. Walker, better known as Jim, was born in Huntersville, Mecklenburg County, N.C. on March 25, 1879, the son of Dr. H. J. and Catherine Berryhill Walker. His youth was spent in Huntersville and his reputation as a model young boy is not borne out by the early residents of Huntersville. Jim was a member of the class of 1901 of Davidson and after leaving there taught school for a year in Piedmont, S.C., but finding his students so far advanced and not wishing to study...Harder than they did, he resigned this position and began his business career in Charlotte in 1902 with the firm of J. M. Harry and Company.

MAYOR J. O. WALKER

In 1913, Jim was married to Miss Adeline Chapman, of Columbia, and their family consists of one son, Jim Jr., aged 7, and two daughters, Mary Chapman, four, and Sophie Elizabeth, six months. Mr. Walker continued as a member of the firm of Harry & Co. until 1914, at which time the firm of Burwell-Walker Company was organized, selling Chalmers and Dort cars. This firm was one of the most successful in their line, and to Mr. Walker’s popularity and reputation is attributed a great part of this success. Mr. Walker retired from active connection with this firm in 1920.

On May 1, 1921, Mr. Walker was elected by a very large majority to the office of Mayor of the City of Charlotte. In Masonic circles, Mr. Walker has been elected to the highest honor that can be conferred in the Shrine, being elected Potentate of Oasis Temple in 1919. He is Major of Oasis Band and Patrol and has been since its inception in 1910, at which time he was elected Captain of the Patrol and since that time has been promoted to Major of the two bodies. Of Mr. Walker’s administration as Mayor, it has been said that it has been one of the most constructive in the history of Charlotte.

D. STETSON SHOES

FREDERICK KURTLAND FLEAGLE

Professor Frederick Kurtland Fleagle was born at St. Johns, Michigan, on June 6, 1884. He spent his boyhood days there, graduating from the St. Johns high school in 1902. In 1907, he graduated from the University of Michigan. Two years later, he was married at St. Johns. Until February 1917, he was teaching in San Juan, Porto Rico, for a while as principal of the Normal School, and later dean of the University of Porto Rico. In February 1917, Professor Fleagle returned to the United States to take his M.A. degree at the University of Michigan. When he was called to Davidson to be the instructor in Spanish, he was the dean of Marion Institute at Marion, Ala. Although here for less than four months, Professor Fleagle and his family have won for themselves a large place in the hearts of both the townspeople and the students. Professor Fleagle is a member of the Presbyterian Church and a Mason, having reached the Shrine in this order.

D. STETSON SHOES

President Wilson is fond of jokes and tells them well. He tells of a friend of his who was out golfing and had a little negro caddy. He noticed the boy sitting down a great deal and asked if he were tired. The boy replied, “No, sir, I’se sittin’ down to keep from gittin’ tired.”

Bryant—“Say, did you know that hats are being used to clean up the streets of Davidson now?”
Gamble—“No, what’s the idea?”
Bryant—“They gather in the waste better.”

The Parcher wishes its readers a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Job Wanted. I am an expert white washer and wood cutter and want a good job in a nice town.—Signed, John Schenck.

HUNGRY? PIES, CAKES, SANDWICHES, FRUITS, HOT CHOCOLATE, COFFEE, ICED DRINKS at STETSON SHOES

Is Your Life Insured? PENN MUTUAL POLICIES PROFITABLE AND SAFE You Can Borrow Money on Them W. A. GAMBLE, Jr.

For the Boy: Suits and overcoats, shirts, blouses, hats and caps, neck ties, raincoats, sweaters, mackinaws, shoes, pajamas, hosiery, in fact everything a boy wears.

For Dad or Brother: Ties, handkerchiefs, shirts, pajamas, hosiery, hats, canes, gloves, shoes, bedroom slippers, mufflers, traveling bags, suitcases, fitted cases, purses, bill folders, briefcases, collar bags.

For Mother, Sister or “Her”: Hand-tooled purses and bags, gloves, hosiery, kimonos, negligees, silk underwear, sweaters, handkerchiefs, fur coats, furs, chokers, umbrellas, waists and blouses, suits and dresses, hats.

If you send something from Mellon’s it will surely be appreciated.

MELLON’S “THE COLLEGE MAN'S STORE”