WOODROW BIRTHDAY GREETINGS, MR. WILSON!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HOW’S THIS FOR SOME EDITION?

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 16, 1921. No. 15

Wilson’s Accomplishments Cover Very Large Field

Dr. T. W. Lingle Writes of Him as Student, Teacher, Author, Public Servant.

As Student

Mr. Wilson took his Bachelor’s degree at Princeton, just as Messrs. Roosevelt and Taft did at Harvard and Yale, respectively.
He later graduated from the Law Department of the University of Virginia, just as Mr. Taft did at Yale. Here
the parallel ceases, for at this point Mr. Wilson entered upon a real university course at Johns Hopkins University, such
as the other two men never undertook, and such as no other institution in America at that time was prepared
to offer. Mr. Wilson was one of the early students to receive the then much coveted degree of Doctor of
Philosophy from the country’s first real university.

As Teacher

It was in a college for women that Dr. Wilson, like M. Clemenceau in France, made his debut as a
professor. From Bryn Mawr he passed in succession to Wesleyan University, in Connecticut, and to Princeton University, with which latter
he remained connected for a period of 20 years, the last eight as president of the university, terminating his career
there in 1910. While a professor at Princeton, Dr. Wilson practically created the first department of Political Science as it
now exists in American universities, and here he attracted more attention as a classroom lecturer in that department than any
other man in America. While president of the university Dr. Wilson conceived the famous preceptorial system and introduced it into
Princeton. As one of his many progressive measures he undertook to democratize student life at Princeton, encountering here the naughtiest
problem he had yet struck, attracting the attention of the nation to his ideals of democracy and his efforts to
realize them on aristocratic ground.

As Author

Before receiving his Doctor’s degree, Mr. Wilson was contributing articles on economic and political topics to learned publications, and at
the age of 28 he awoke to find himself a national figure in the field of scholarship, by the publication
of his treatise on “Congressional Government.” The enlargement of this work into “The State” during his further studies at Bryn
Mawr and at Wesleyan, brought Dr. Wilson into touch with the great Oxford scholar, Mr. Bryce, who had long been
working in the same field. From that day to this, each of these men has found in the other an
ardent admirer. Long before Dr. Wilson entered public life, the writer, engaged in educational work in South America, observed “The
State” and other works of Dr. Wilson on sale in French edition in the windows of bookstores of Rio de
Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and other cities. Dr. Wilson’s monumental work is his four-volume edition of American History published by Harper
Brothers. This work was written from original sources, and contains many rare cuts and engravings. The writer was several times
in the home of Professor Wilson while a student at Princeton, at the time that the great historical work was
being prepared, and was shown by Professor Wilson the collections of (Continued from page 3)

Twenty years ago, The World Leader As He Appeared at the Peace Conference.

Wilson Accomplished Much at Versailles Conference.

Dr. J. M. McConnell Writes of Three Great Achievements at Peace Meet.

There were many fortunate circumstances in connection with America’s part in the World War. The issue of the war had
come to be the cause of human freedom, the underlying principle of the government of the American Republic; fired with
the spirit of crusaders fighting to right a great wrong and to preserve justice in the world, our soldiers performed
deeds of valor that astounded the military powers of Europe; our resources in men, material, and money, were to be
decisive in the struggle, and to give us a position of influence and leadership such as few nations have ever
enjoyed. The most fortunate circumstance of all, however, attending our participation in the great adventure, was the fact that Woodrow
Wilson was our President. For leadership in a fight for the political principles of the Anglo-Saxon race and for a
world peace settlement when victory had been won, Woodrow Wilson, by heritage, training, experience, loftiness of ideals and character was
probably the best-fitted man in the United States. When he took ship for Europe in December, 1918, and landed in
France a few weeks later, he was the recognized leader of the world, not only because he was the representative
of America, but because in his speeches on the issues of the war, and of the peace, he had given
expression as no one else to what the heart of mankind everywhere believed to be right and just. In a
brief paper like this it is possible (Continued on page 3)

College History Tells of Wilson’s Days at Davidson

Scholastic and Literary Work Marked Even in the Days of Long Ago.

The following information is taken from the History of Davidson College, prepared by Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian:

“Thomas Woodrow Wilson entered Davidson in 1873, at 17 years of age. His father, Rev.Joseph R. Wilson, D.D., was pastor
of the Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, N.C., and served the college as an esteemed trustee from 1874 to 1881. He
matriculated as a Freshman, being conditioned on Ancient Geography and Cicero. He entered the Mathematics and Greek classes on probation
and carried the work successfully. His conditions were removed during the year, and beyond this item, his name does not
appear in the faculty records. There is a persistent tradition that he was suspended. This evidently grew out of the
fact that in May 1873, a student named Thomas A. Wilson was withdrawn at the request of the faculty because
of ‘inattention to duty.’

“During the seventies (and much later), students cut their own wood, pumped their own water, washed their lamps, and cleaned
their rooms. He roomed in No. 13, Chambers, North Wing, first floor, and there is the tradition that he established
and maintained the record as regards the time required to wake and be in his seat in the chapel across
the campus from his dormitory. His classmates state that he could be fast asleep when the second bell began, start
to chapel with his clothes on one arm, dressing with the other, and be in place, neatly clad, when the
ringing ceased, six minutes later.

(Continued on page 3)

2340 S STREET N.W.

Mr. J. M. Richards, Editor-in-Chief, The Davidsonian, Davidson, N.C.

WOODROW WILSON WASHINGTON, D.C.

My dear Mr. Richards:

I have of course not in the least lost my interest in Davidson. I heard of the burning of the
Chambers building with deepest distress, and I hope with all my heart that funds can be raised to rebuild it.
Please present my compliments to your fellow editors and believe me;

Sincerely yours,

7th December 1921

Evidence of Wilson’s Continuing Interest in Davidson.

Woodrow Wilson Was Well Prepared for Leadership

Dr. Thornton Whaling Traces the Interesting Line of His School Life.

Mr. Wilson delights to say that his own father was his first and greatest teacher. According to his own account,
he discovered he had a mind when a boy fourteen years of age or less, attending his father's prayer meeting
in Augusta, Ga. The pastor was delivering a course of lectures, explaining the reasoning of Apostle Paul in the Epistle
to the Romans, when the boy actually discovered that he could think and his intelligence was aroused at perceiving the
chain of logical argumentation developed by his gifted father in these mid-week lectures.

“These dissertations might put to sleep Godly elders and deacons and pious Mothers of Israel, but it would be worthwhile
to do this if the preacher could wake up the intelligence of gifted and promising youth, like young Wilson. While
visiting Columbia some years ago, he asked to visit his father’s classroom and said, “I used to come with my
father to his classroom when a little boy, and I think I got much of what he was teaching there,
and I hope I have it yet.” Upon visiting the library, he said, “I borrowed my father’s keys and browsed
a great deal in these books under my father’s general direction.”

He was a student at Davidson for a season, an institution which embodies the essence of Scotch and Scotch-Irish culture
and life. It was once asked him if he remembered Davidson well, and he said, “There is nothing I remember
better—the students, the professors, the influences, the life there.” From the standpoint of the philosophy of adolescence, there was no
more important year in his life than the year spent at Davidson. He has told frequently upon the stump an
incident which happened at Davidson College, when, as one of the lower classmen, he played on the scrub baseball nine,
which on one occasion was playing a match game with some husky country youths who came in wagons pulled by
enormous mules. The game was quite close, and the last inning was being played: it was now a tie, and
the winning of the game depended on Wilson making the run from third to home base. The captain of the
nine was a stalwart youth, liable to a liberal use of profanity when excited: he got back of Wilson and
shouted, “Run, Wilson, run like the Devil when that ball is hit; run like the Devil I say.” The man
at the bat hit the ball, and Wilson trotted nonchalantly along as if not mindful of the tremendous issue that
was at stake. The ball was thrown to the home base when he was perhaps three feet from making his
run. The stalwart captain could not refrain himself but broke out as follows: “Blank you, Wilson, I believe you could
run if you weren't so infernal lazy, Blank you.” Wilson grinned the famous grin which his countenance wears to this
day under similar or appropriate circumstances; and the sympathy of a large number of the lower classmen of the Old
College was with the stalwart captain in his fit characterization of the failure of the future President to make the
proper run.

He next studied at Princeton for three years under the presidency of that grand old Scotch divine, Dr. James McCosh.
Princeton is Davidson (Continued on page 12)

WE ARE PROUD OF YOU, WOODROW WILSON
