é Christian Endeavor © Convention Issue

LECTURES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

WE WANT HOLIDAY EASTER MON.

Vol. VIII.

Dr. W. W. Moore Delivers Fourth Series of Lectures on Otts Foundation

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 18, 1921.

Theologian Discusses “The Permanence of the Christian Ideal” in Masterful Addresses - Works to be Published in Book Form.

Rev. Dr. W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., president of Union Theological Seminary, of Richmond, Va., delivered the fourth series of lectures under the Otts Foundation, Saturday, the 12th, and Sunday, the 13th. The Otts Foundation was established by the Rev. Dr. J. M. P. Otts, then of Alabama, in 1893. The lectures are in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may seem directed against the foundations of the Christian faith. The first series was delivered by Dr. Otts himself; the second by Dr. Robert L. Dabney, and the third by Dr. J. B. Shearer. It is understood that Dr. Moore, following the custom of his predecessors, will publish his lectures. In all probability, the volume will be available by the middle of the coming summer.

Dr. Moore, a member of the class of 1878 of Davidson College, is well known as the president of one of the best-known theological seminaries of our Southern Church. His learning, his tact, his consecrated work, is at once the property and the glory of his alma mater and the whole Southern Presbyterian Church. He is, to use the words of a member of the faculty, “an alumnus whom this or any other college could well be proud of.” Through the years he has been a constant and loyal friend of Davidson, ever solicitous of her welfare. Elsewhere in this issue is an interview with him in which he has sketched Davidson as he has known her and as he hopes she will be in the years to come.

Perhaps the best tribute that can be paid to the personal charm and magnetism of Dr. Moore is that he held the attention of an audience composed mainly of college boys through a lecture on Apologetics; and he did it not once, but three times. From an easy platform position, using the simple old Anglo-Saxon words, without show or affectation, Dr. Moore ably defended the great truths of our faith.

In discussing “The Permanence of the Christian Ideal,” Dr. Moore saw fit to divide the subject into three phases. Saturday morning he discussed “The Impregnable Center” of the Christian ideal; Sunday morning “The Embodied Ideal” of Christianity, and Sunday night, in the concluding lecture, “The Moral Power of History,” it was shown that history has vindicated the ideals of Christ.

The First Address.

Before the student body, the faculty, and a few others, Dr. Moore discussed “The Impregnable Center” Saturday (Continued on page 2)

QUEENS DRAMATIC CLUB PLAYS HERE APRIL 1

The Queens College Dramatic Club will present two one-act plays here on the night of April 4th. Miss Mitchell is the director of the Dramatic Club and from all accounts, she has developed some fine talent in these plays. Miss Frances Pitts is the business manager of the organization. There will be 20 charming young ladies who will make the trip up here, and that should be enough advertisement to ensure every Davidson student being on hand. Reserve your seats early.

Noted French Lecturer Speaks Friday Night

M. Emile Villemin Comes to Davidson Under Auspices of Le Cercle Francais

“Le Cercle Francais” takes great pleasure in announcing that they have secured the services of the noted French lecturer, M. Emile Villemin, for Friday night, March 18th. M. Villemin, sent to us from the headquarters of “L’Alliance Francaise,” as official lecturer of “The French Alliance,” comes with a wonderfully successful lecture upon the subject, “Le Mont Saint Michel.” M. Villemin brings with him stereopticon views illustrating the wonders and beauties of the subject, and explains them to his hearers in a most distinct and forcible French.

French students and enthusiasts are called upon to support this first attempt of what we hope will be a series of such entertainments. “The French Alliance” sends annually a group of noted lecturers to its chapters throughout the country, and M. Villemin is the first to be sent to the local chapter. French students are not only asked to come out to enjoy a night’s entertainment and to receive this distinguished visitor to our campus, but also to rally to this high standard set by the local “Le Cercle Francais.”

M. Villemin is quite a student of his language, being the author of several plays and textbooks. Especially noticeable is his book, “Natural Method to Pronounce French.” In his lecture, he will pronounce it so clearly that even the most inexperienced ear will be able to comprehend the subject. Felix Weill, General Secretary of “L’Alliance Francaise” wrote to Dr. Lingle: “M. Villemin cannot make his lecture in English, or even a part of it; but he expresses himself so clearly in French that I am sure the audience will not have the slightest difficulty to follow the development of his talk.”

NEW SERGEANT ADDED TO PERSONNEL OF R. O. T. C.

Another sergeant has been added to the R. O. T. C. personnel. Sergeant J. P. Marshall, Cavalry, comes to Davidson from recruiting service at Hickory, N. C. He is a veteran in army service, having been in the Cavalry for nine years. During the war, he saw six months of overseas service. He was supply sergeant for an ammunition train. His home is close to Davidson, at Concord, N. C., and he should understand our ways pretty well. Three schools in this area were given honorable mention by the inspector who has just completed his tour. They were Auburn, Citadel, and Clemson.

Mr. W. W. White, of Atlanta, Ga., spent the weekend on the hill visiting his son, Houston White, '21.

Copies of Annual to Be Ready May Tenth

Quips and Cranks of 1921 to be Dedicated to “Dad”

The ‘21 QUIPS AND CRANKS will undoubtedly be the best annual in the history of the college. The engraving, which is of the best workmanship, has been finished and the proofs have been received. The annual went to press on February 14th, and it is thought that the copies will be ready for delivery by the 10th of May. Probably the most unique feature of the annual is the fact that it is dedicated to one who does much for us and gets little credit: “Dad.”

The annual is made up of six books; the first book is composed of Campus Scenes, Faculty, Annual Staff, and Contributors. Calendar; the third, Athletics; the fourth, Fraternities; the fifth, Organizations; and the sixth, “The Wildcat Weekly” and Advertising Section. The first 24 pages are done in sepia on cameo ivory paper, which adds much to the appearance and quality of the annual. On the cover, which is stiff, is an embossed picture of Chambers Building as viewed from the side. The composition of delicate colors in the picture adds to the beauty of the stately old building.

Sixty pages are assigned to the Athletic department. Each “D” man has an individual picture and write-up. In other departments of Athletics, there are group pictures: Golf, Tennis, and the Champion Class Basketball Team.

The humorous section is especially good. Of all the humor in the world, it is said, none can be compared with college humor.The “Calendar” is important, in as much as it records the Davidson “notables.” (If the “Calendar” didn’t get you, the “Wildcat Weekly” did!) It isn’t too late to get your extra annuals. You can get them with your name—or if you choose, “her” name—on it in gold lettering. Copies can be ordered now if you failed to do so before. Don’t fail to pay up your dues, because all annuals must be paid for before any deliveries are made.

Wildcat Wrestling Team Makes First Appearance
Washington and Lee and V. M. I. Win From Davidson Mat Artists

W. and L. Match. In their first wrestling meet Davidson suffered defeat at the hands of Washington and Lee on the latter’s mats last Friday night, by a score of 26 to 3. Washington and Lee finished a very successful wrestling season with this meet, and having done excellently with both V. P. I. and the Army earlier in the season. Due to the fact that this was Davidson's first appearance in this form of college sports and to an absence of expert coaches along this line of competition, Davidson supporters are very well pleased with the showing made by Captain Cumming and his men against their more experienced opponents. In the 115-pound class, McGill of W. and L. won a decision over Cummings of Davidson after the latter had held the upper hand by a head hold and scissor (Continued on page 2).

Mortal Combat
Sir Massey Carries the Field Against All Combatants

Ye gods and little fishes. The shadows of the great minds of the past have been brooding over the campus for the last two weeks and have been lending their genius and brains to the worthy combatants in the greatest contest that this little college has ever seen. The strategy of the football gridiron, the carefully worked out plans of the basketball team, the minor tactics of the R. O. T. C. even fade into insignificance when compared with the great brainwork which modern knight-errants have exemplified in their recent conflict. With the checkerboard as their battlefield, with the checker men to carry out their bidding, these warriors clad in their intelligence have fought to the death. Twenty-six valiant heroes risked their lives in the dangerous contest, and but one survived the ordeal. With impregnable armor, with an attack that could not be stopped, Sir Massey completely put to rout all opponents and overcame the entire field. Great and terrible was the conflict; the sound of clashing arms and falling bodies smote sharp on every ear. Each hero sallied forth with a large following cheering him on to victory, and many and disappointed were the cohorts of the defeated. Clad in his armor of gold, Sir Nesbitt seemed impregnable, but the quick eye of his opponent caught him unawares and cast him to the ground at the very onset. Sir Lewis, of moving picture fame, was also chosen as a winner, but his cohorts were doomed to disappointment. The four who lasted to the very end were the Green Knight, Palmer; the Red Knight, Bailey; the Black Knight, McCaskill; the White Knight, Massey. The Green and Red fought to and fro in mortal conflict, the thunder of clashing armor and the click of the sharp swords could be heard for miles. But, finally when the dust of battle had cleared away, the Red Knight had fallen and the Green Knight limped off the field victorious. By consummate skill and lightning-like movements, the great White Knight easily overcame the Black Knight and then the Red Knight and remained the conqueror of the conquered. The issues at stake were great, the fighting was of the first order, the chivalry of the contestants could not have been surpassed, and the tournament will pass in history alongside with those held by the Knights of the Round Table in the day of King Arthur.

Many students took short trips, and a few, more bold, went as far as Georgia last weekend.

Davidson Christian Endeavor Societies to Entertain District Convention
Delegates From Societies in Twelve Surrounding Counties to be Guests of People of Davidson and Davidson Students March 26th and 27th—Interesting Speakers Engaged

The annual convention of the Southern District Union of North Carolina Christian Endeavor will be held in the Davidson Church Saturday and Sunday, March 26th and 27th. The delegates will be boys and girls, young men and young women sent by the societies in Mecklenburg County and the surrounding counties. An unusually large corps of good speakers have been secured and the program indicates an interesting and helpful series of meetings. Mr. Charles F. Evans, Southern States Secretary of Christian Endeavor, will be present for addresses and conferences on methods. Mr. Evans is brimful of good plans and knows how to put them over in great style. He is a great leader, as all who have heard him realize. Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the Davidson Church, will conduct the devotional exercises at the opening of the Saturday afternoon and night and Sunday afternoon sessions, and will preach the convention sermon Sunday morning. The delegates have a real treat in store in hearing Dr. Richards. The devotional spirit is being stressed in the convention plans and will be in the convention itself, and large results are expected. Mr. Frank Wilson, Field Secretary for North Carolina and Virginia, will be present to help in the conference and the general inspiration of the convention. Since his graduation from the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, he has been doing splendid work as a Christian Endeavor field man and will be a big help in making the convention a success. Rev. Daniel Iverson, of the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church of Charlotte will deliver an address Saturday night. A minister who plays the piano is unusual, but Mr. Iverson is unusual in more ways than this. He is full of life and an enthusiastic believer in Christian Endeavor as the training school of the church. Mrs. W. H. Howell, of Wilmington, State Junior Superintendent, will direct the work for the younger boys and girls. Mrs. Howell is the mother of one of the Davidson students, and he will be justly proud to have his Davidson friends know and hear her. A heart full of love for boys and girls and a large experience in work for them will make her a valuable addition to the convention program. Mr. G. M. Beaty, of Charlotte, State Intermediate Superintendent will have charge of the work for the boys and girls (Continued on page 3).

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE
Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Literary Society.
Friday—8:00 p.m., Lecture by M. Emile Villermin.
9:00 p.m., Reporters Club Meeting.
Saturday—1:05 p.m., Election of Y. M. C. A. Officers.
3:45 p.m.—Baseball: Varsity vs. Scrubs.
6:45 p.m., Movies.
9:00 p.m., Eu Literary Society.
Sunday—10:00 a.m. Bible Study Classes.
3:30 p.m., Davidson College Sunday School Class at Presbyterian Church.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Tuesday—12:10 p.m., Davidsonian Staff Elections.

VOTE FOR THE BEST MEN IN COMING ELECTIONS