THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 28, 1921.

BALFOUR BLUE BOOK 1921

SAY, FELLOWS, DOES A MAN HAVE TO BE EFFEMINATE TO LEAD THE CHRISTIAN LIFE?

The Standard Reference for Fraternity Jewelry will be mailed on application.

Coach Moran, of Centre College, says: “One doesn’t have to be a pussyfoot to hold religious convictions.” Bo McMillin, a great all-American quarterback, agrees that “it’s hard to beat a praying team.” “You can’t measure manhood with a tape around the biceps.” “I want to be a giant for God.” Billy Sunday, the speediest base-runner and most daring base-stealer of his day. “It’s the dirty play and not the dirty field that blackens,” says Walter Camp, quoting also the following lines from Thackeray:

L. G. BALFOUR CO.
Attleboro, Mass.
PLATEMAKERS FOR
THE DAVIDSONIAN

BOB MILES TO SPEAK HERE NEXT SUNDAY

“Bob” Miles, last year’s “Y” secretary, will speak to the students next Sunday. All those who have known anything of the college in the last two years will remember Mr. Miles as the man who put the Davidson “Y” on a working basis. He was also one of the prime movers in the Greater Davidson Club and a valued assistant in the basketball coaching.

Mr. Miles was one of the leading men in his class here and would have graduated with high honors except that an accident on the football field crushed his leg and forced him to leave school in his senior year. He went on through Union Seminary and entered the Y. M. C. A. during the war, going to France as a “Y” secretary with the first division of troops that sailed. After several months as a secant, he was forced to return to this country on account of sickness, and was assigned to Davidson, remaining with us until the close of last year.

DAVIDSON “Y” WIDE AWAKE.

Plans Formed to Strengthen Bible Classes and Sunday Schools.

Under the leadership of Secretary Chalmers and President Schenck, the Y. M. C. A. has taken on new life. A Bible class will be provided for every ten men on the campus. These classes will be conducted as discussion groups, using “How Jesus met life problems,” as a basis for discussion.

The “Y” plans to use talks by faculty members, and musical selections by the “Y” quartette and the band to increase interest in the Sunday Schools. Christian Endeavor Societies will be formed in the schools and more attention will be given to the social life of the communities around them.

Dr. Fraser Hood led the first meeting of the Davidson Men's Bible Class last Sunday afternoon at the college church. The students seemed to be very much pleased, as was shown by the large attendance. This class will be held regularly, and at the next meeting, the class will have a room to themselves in the back of the church.

The Sunday services of the “Y” are to be conducted to increase friendly feeling among the fellows and provide for the Famine Sufferers.

PROGRAM FOR EU. SOCIETY, JANUARY 28

Debate: Resolved, That the Smith-Towner Educational Bill should be made a law.
Affirmative: Davidson, R. F. Baba, N. P.
Negative: Warner, A. J. Walthall, D. B.

L. G. BALFOUR CO.
Attleboro, Mass.
PLATEMAKERS FOR
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Badges
Plaques
Jewelry
Stationery

“Wholesale Distributor
Ford Boltless Front Springs
Ford (Heavy) 8 Leaf Springs
Ford (Heavy) Rear Springs
Ford Complete Tops (Touring)
Ford Complete Tops (Roadster)

“Who misses or who wins the prize?
Go lose or conquer as you can,
But if you fail or if you rise,
Be each, pray God, a gentleman.”

American Flash Lights
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries
Columbia Dry Cell Batteries

The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY
COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.
Ask for Quotations

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants

W. S. HENDERSON, JewelerRoberts, G. B. McIlwaine, R. R. SPARTANBURG, S. C. Davidson, N. C., them a time during which they may learn more about the true Davidson Spirit and the great man’s man, Christ.

Declamation: Oliver, S. E.
Oration: McCutcheon, K. B.

Special music will be given by the quartette and band, and the speakers will include both students and leaders in Christian work in all walks of life.

——$5000 for the Famine Sufferers——

WALLACE REID BRINGS PLEASURE IN “THE DANCING FOOL”

REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

VOLUNTEER BAND ELECTS OFFICERS

Will Have Fifteen Delegates at the State Convention.

The Volunteer Band met last Wednesday evening and elected officers for the new term. J. P. Price succeeded Dave Roberts as president. J. M. Richards was elected vice-president and Rolston Bitzer, secretary and treasurer. It is the plan of the band this year to have every one of its members engaged in some kind of active Christian work. Some members will go on deputation trips to points in North Carolina. This deputation work will be one of the most important aims of the band this year. Furthermore, every member will be on a committee and will be responsible for certain phases of the band’s work.

Wallace Reid as “The Dancing Fool” and as the partner in his uncle’s ancient jug factory proves clearly that he can sell jugs all day and dance all night, making a wonderful success along both lines. As Sylvester Tribble, a poor country boy, he undertakes to clean out the dust of ages from his uncle's office and to introduce modern business methods, thus putting the factory on a firm working basis. Inspired by a dream, he makes up the advertisement “B’ Jones, B’ jugs,” puts this in a periodical, and goes out on the road to gather a pile of orders. He returns with orders just in time to prevent his uncle from selling out to a competitor with whom Sylvester became acquainted in the fashionable cabaret where the other side of the plot is laid.

At night he dances with a most adorable girl with big brown eyes in the most fashionable cabaret in town. Here he not only makes more money than his uncle pays him but also learns of a competitor’s schemes almost as soon as they are made, thus saving his uncle's jug business. But more important than this, his dancing partner agrees to undertake the more serious job of becoming the wife of the leading jug manufacturer in the state.

We must hand the prize to Charlie McCaskill and H. E. Lewis, the former for handling the crowd so skillfully and the latter for compelling a movie machine to do its part when many operators would have refused to put in extra time putting it in shape to please us.

Our band will have 15 representatives at the state conference to be held at Trinity College on February 25-27. The incoming president urged the importance of keeping the “Morning Watch.” If the above plans are carried out, the Volunteer Band will have every prospect of a very successful and helpful year.

——$5000 for the Famine Sufferers——

Alphabetically Arranged, Too!

Prof—“Mr. Rodgers, what kind of dictionary do you use?”
Fresh Rodgers—“A big red un, doctor!”

See what ‘Hamlet’ has to say in the Open Forum.

D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., - - Atlanta, Georgia

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories