THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921

Alumni News

LINDSAY PATTERSON
Well-Known Lawyer

Lindsay Patterson was born on May 16, 1858, at Blandwood, the residence of Governor Morehead in Greensboro, N.C. He attended the primary schools at Salem, then went to the Finley High School at Lenoir. He entered Davidson in 1874 and graduated in 1878, standing second in his class. His merit is shown in making this stand when among his classmates were James W. Osborne, Dr. W. W. Moore, Charles M. Hepburn, Henry E. Fries, and F. M. Williams, all of whom have taken a high rank in the world.

After graduating at Davidson, Mr. Patterson studied law and passed his examination in 1881. He located in Winston-Salem, where he has since resided. Hardly had he begun practice before he was elected solicitor of the county criminal court. In 1888 he married Miss Lucy Patterson, of Philadelphia, and their home has since been a great literary center for North Carolinians. Mrs. Patterson conceived the design of promoting literature in North Carolina by offering a massive and costly cup to be presented each year to the North Carolina writer who achieves the greatest literary success for that year.

Mr. Patterson is a Democrat of the old school. In 1896 he was elector-at-large for North Carolina in the Chicago Convention and in 1902 ran as an unsuccessful candidate for Congress against Hon. W. W. Kitchen, of the Fifth District. Mr. Patterson ranks among the ablest lawyers of the State, and being yet in his prime, no doubt the future will be one of distinguished successes in his profession and of usefulness to his people.

ALUMNI NEWS

Peanut Parcher Spence, '20, appeared at the baseball game last Saturday. He was immediately recognized by those in the grandstand and called upon for a speech, but being so overcome by emotion was unable to orate. Among those on the hill last weekend were O. P. Hart, '19; John Caldwell, '20; L. D. Hammett, ex-'22; E. W. Faires, ex-'19; R. C. Garth, '19; F. L. Brown, '22; Rev. C. G. Lynch, '12; W. H. Neel, '17; W. P. Brown, ex-'23; Laurence G. Wilkinson, '13; C. Watkins, '09; W. W. Rankin, ex-'23; W. F. Hall, '20; J. A. Steele, '98; and Capt. Reid R. Morrison, '02. Some came for the Christian Endeavor Convention, others only for the ball game.

R. C. Garth, '19, is now teaching at the Baird School, in Charlotte. W. H. Neel, '17, is now in the employ of the Charlotte National Bank. W. F. Hall, '20, is a professor now in Mitchell College.

A new edition of “The Creed of Presbyterians,” by Dr. Egbert W. Smith, '82, has recently been issued by the Presbyterian Committee of Publication, Richmond, Va. This book was written by Dr. Smith in 1901 and has already had a far larger circulation than any other book ever written in America on Presbyterianism. The new edition contains lesson divisions with questions for each lesson, thus converting it into a textbook for use in the Sunday Schools and study classes. The questions were prepared by Dr. W. L. Lingle, D.D., '92, of Union Theological Seminary.

In the Westminster Church, St. Louis, on March 13, a memorial tablet to Dr. John F. Cannon, '69, was unveiled. The inscription on the tablet, paying a splendid tribute to Dr. Cannon, was as follows:

1851-1920
JOHN FRANKLIN CANNON
Our beloved pastor for thirty-two years
“And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind—and a covert from the tempest—as rivers of water in a dry place—as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.”C. Rowan, '04, of Greenville, S.C., has taken up pastoral work in the Presbyterian Church of Columbus, Miss. He is especially popular with the students of the Mississippi State College for Women, large numbers of whom attend church regularly. John Russell Minter, A.B. '13, and M.A. '15, vice consul at Ft. Elizabeth, has been assigned to a similar position at Johannesburg. This information is carried by the Associated Press News of Washington. John R. Boswell, '19, now a student at Emory University, Atlanta Medical Department, was one of the victims of a serious gas explosion last week. He had a sprained ankle and scalp wounds. Jim McNeal, '16, is studying law at the University of South Carolina. J. M. McLeod, ex-'17, is a medical student at Cornell University. J. M. Gilmer and B. H. Boyd, both ex-'22, are attending the University of Alabama this year. Skeeter Meacham, ex-'23, is now a student at Furman. Dupre Rhame, ex-'24, the snare drum specialist, entered Furman after leaving Davidson. J. H. Carter, '06, is editor and owner of a newspaper in his hometown, Mt. Airy. Edwin Carter, '17, is prosecuting attorney for the same town. Nick Carter, '21, brother of these two, graduates this year. L. O. Hammett, ex-'22, captain of last year’s football team, motored up to see the first ball games of the season. He has lost weight since last fall but is no doubt just as sturdy a Wildcat as ever. Ada Wilcox, '11, now teaching in McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn., is going to found a new preparatory school for boys next year in Rome, Ga. Some of the alumni seen at the game in Winston-Salem Monday were Charley Angle, '18; John McAlister, '19; Lacy McAlister, '20; Nick Carter, ex-'18; Eugene Apperson, ex-'21; D. H. Heath, ex-'21, and Professor Moore, of the Winston-Salem High School.

Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Bradley, of Philadelphia, are visiting Mrs. A. A. Hagar.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
CORNELIUS, N.C.
Phone 25-W

UR-A New Narrow ARROW COLLAR
Cluett, Peabody & Co, Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Bem Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregeon, Mgr.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N.C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

In other words, Camels supply everything you hoped for in cigarettes! Your taste will prove that in quality, flavor, fragrance, and mellowness Camels give you a real idea of how delightful a cigarette can be! You will greatly prefer Camels' expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos to either kind of tobacco straight! Camels hand out satisfaction you never before got from a cigarette. They have a wonderful smooth but satisfying mildness that meets the most fastidious desires. And, Camels are so refreshing—they do not tire your taste! Another feature about Camels—they leave no unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor! Camels' superiority is best proved by comparing them with any cigarette in the world at any price. You realize then as you never did before just what quality can mean to a cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, N.C.