THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

SUNDAY SCHOOLS AND BIBLE CLASSES KEEP UP GOOD WORK

The attendance in the six Sunday Schools showed a great increase over last Sunday. As Sunday was Rally Day, the attendance at Shearer reached 105, more than three times their attendance a week ago. The Christian Endeavor has a live society there and much interest is shown. The attendance at Caldwell dropped, owing to the preaching services held in Huntersville. Despite the lack of attendance from Huntersville, the people were eager in attendance and zealous in their study.

School—Supt. Pupils. Tchrs.
Shearer—Mcllwaine ---------- 105
Cornelius—Clarke 84
Brawley’s—McKeithen ------- 50
Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson ----- 30
Oak Grove—Cooper 28
Caldwell—Patterson 25
Total last Sunday ------------ 234

The Wednesday night Bible classes, with an attendance of 295, showed an increase of 23 over the previous week. The percentage of attendance has not yet been worked out, but Georgia had an attendance of 49, closely followed by North and South Chambers, with 41 and 2 respectively. Twenty-six classes are now held, three in town, at Smith's, Grey’s, and White’s, one in Louisiana, two in each of the Barracks, and one on each floor of the dormitories.

Dormitory At'n'd’c.
Town (3 classes) 17
Louisiana (1 class) 15
Georgia (3 classes) 40
Watts (3 classes) 37
Rumple (3 classes) 27
S. Barracks (2 classes) 22
N. Barracks (2 classes) 17
N. Chambers (3 classes) 41
S. Chambers (6 classes) 22
Total -------------------- 205

MINISTERIAL BAND PLANS FOR FULL PARTICIPATION

A very interesting meeting of the Ministerial Band was held Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. The Band was very fortunate in having as guests E. H. Hamilton, of the class of ’17, and George Bellingrath, of the class of ‘18. Mr. Bellingrath delivered an interesting talk on preparation for the ministry, and Mr. Hamilton gave a very appropriate short sermon taken from Hebrews, chapters 9 and 10. Plans were then discussed for holding regular meetings every Sunday afternoon. The officers are working on a plan by which each member will be able to take part in every meeting. After a short business discussion, the meeting was closed by a prayer by Mr. Hamilton.

VOLUNTEER BAND MEMBERS HEAR TWO GRADUATES SPEAK

The members of the Volunteer Band were glad to have with them on last Sunday morning two former members, E. H. Hamilton and George Bellingrath, better known as “Ham” and “Bill.” As “Ham” and “Bill” are both volunteers for the foreign field and will take up that work as soon as they graduate from Union Theological Seminary, they gave the members of the Band many words of encouragement. “Ye are my witnesses,” was the theme of the talks. “Fellows, if you are to be true and loyal witnesses of Christ, you must be willing to pour out your life blood as a sacrifice for the millions who are spiritually starving.” To such words, filled with the spirit of God, the members listened intently. “Bill” explained that the greatest opportunity that we would have as witnesses for Christ is right here in college, thus pointing out very clearly our duties, opportunities, and privileges. Then the great need of the world was shown, and a mental picture given of the starving millions in the Far East and in all the foreign fields. The talks were interesting throughout and very inspiring to every man. It was truly said by someone after the meeting, that “God seemed to be there.”

AFFAIRS OF ANATOL MOVIE ATTRACTION LAST SATURDAY

With the combination of a great picture, a new screen, and a good operator, “The Affairs of Anatol” Saturday night was the hit of the season. But how could a play help being good when even the minor parts were taken by stars like Monte Blue, Agnes Ayers, and Bebe Daniels. Wallace Reid and Gloria Swanson were the brightest, most scintillating stars of this production, but Wanda Hawley and Theodore Roberts were by no means far behind. There was, of course, no main plot. But the three tangles in which “Wally,” Anatol, involved himself were well brought out. Things are kept lively all the time, for when Anatol does take the trouble to go home, he has a wife to remind him of past sins and present wrongdoings. It hardly seemed necessary for Anatol to destroy so much furniture in the first act, but it gave a splendid opportunity for seeing Wallace Reid in action. He could not have succeeded in wrecking a room more thoroughly if he had been taking lessons with a moving company. But the climax came with Bebe Daniels as “Satan Synne.” What she showed Anatol of back-stage life convinced him that the softer lights of home beat the “Great White Way.” The play ends with one of “Wally's” incomparable kisses; of course not accomplished all by himself. The management deserves a vote of thanks for procuring such a high-class production after its release. Many other excellent pictures will follow throughout the season.

GEORGIA CLUB MAKES MERRY IN FEED AND TALK FEAST

The first “feed” of the Georgia Club was held Friday night in the Gym, and Hollingsworth says it was without a doubt the best one they have pulled off this year. President McAlpine was inaugurated but was compelled by the popular clamor to change his inauguralAddress into an expository discourse on his summer vacation abroad. This was well rendered, after which the gentle- man from Macon took charge as toastmaster. Needless to say that his ability in this capacity is unsurpassed. Like all other Macon men, he spoke on the subject of Atlanta’s narrow streets. Of course, the grub was not allowed to sit unmolested through all this. Most of it had been consumed before the program started, and the cream which had been left was attended to after all the freshmen had been duly initiated. There was ice cream, and chocolate, too, pop and pep.

CAMPUSISMS.

John McMasters, ‘20, one of Davidson’s star tackles during his stay here, was on the hill Friday. He enjoyed the P. C. game and liked the looks of our team in action.

W. K. McCain, while assisting Dr. Hood in some work on his new garage, stepped on a nail, painfully injuring his foot.

An expression of appreciation is certainly due the orchestra which rendered such splendid music at the movies Saturday night. It is to be hoped that it will be a permanent thing.

O. M. Brown and “Duck” Shepherd, '25, spent the weekend in Salem visiting their parents.

A large number of alumni were on the Hill for the P. C. game Friday, among them J. M. McBryde, '16; O. C. Williamson, '18; W. C. Neal, Coyte Hunter, A. L. Foscue, and R. T. L. Liston, '20; F. N. Thompson, S. M. Query, D. R. Freeman, and D. C. Shaw, '21.

Messrs. Henry Duls, A. B. Neiman, A. M. Moore, and James Alexander, all students at U. N. C., took in the P. C. game Friday.

Mr. J. G. Crawford spent a few days here last week visiting his son, C. R. Crawford, '23.

Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Shepherd, parents of “Grig” Shepherd, '23, and H. L. Shepherd, '25, motored over from Winston Friday for the P. C. game. Mrs. Wright, mother of F. J. Wright, '22, accompanied them.

Mr. J. M. McBryde, '16, a student at Union Seminary, is spending a few days here with his brother, A. M. McBryde.

“Hard Rock” Shaw, '21, came up to see his second choice beat his first love. He seemed to enjoy it.

A big bunch of boys went down to see the Scrubs beat Charlotte School.

Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Smith, bride and groom of one week, spent a few hours on the campus last week. Mr. Smith was in the class of '12.

Have your suits, collars, and good shirts done up right by the Sanitary Laundry and Dry Cleaning Co., Mooresville, N. C. SMITH & NEEL, Agents, 26 Chambers.

Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES VICKS VapoRub 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

Get Your Clothes Cleaned The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers. See their agent: W. Yonan, 12 Chambers. The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers in the South.

Visit Our Fountain. All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men. Agents for Nunnally, Hollingsworth, and Mary Garden Candies. Tryon Drug Co., 200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Cauliflower ears will be the style again. A wrestling coach is coming soon.

Those in the infirmary last week were: James McCutcheon, J. S. Johnson, Jack Martin, and Doc LaFar.

President Douglas, of P. C., and his family were on the hill for the game Friday, visiting Professors J. M. and J. L. Douglas, brothers of President Douglas.

WANTED — We want a responsible man as our local agent in every town or city over 500 population, to distribute VIRGINIA COALS from our mines direct to the consumer. This is a splendid opportunity for the right man to establish a good legitimate business. In the first letter, give bank references and state financial responsibility. Address Miners, Box 152, Roanoke, Va.

STATIONERY A full and complete line of Eaton, Crane, and Pike Co’s. Linen Lawn and Highland Linen writing paper. W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY, Charlotte, N. C. Local agent J. W. Phillips, 75 Chambers.

Athletic Equipment of Every Sort. Golf Sticks, Balls, and Bags. Tennis Rackets Restrung Quickly. Alex Taylor. All-Wool Sweaters. Highest Grade Tailored-to-Measure Clothes. Davidson Belts and Buckles. New Line of Fine Shoes. “O Davidson” With Music. Davidson Pennants and Pillow Covers. Printing and Engraving of Every Kind. Standard Prices. Full Line of Stationery. “If we haven’t got what you want, we'll get it on short notice.” THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE COMMISSARY.

Do You Want a Ford? Everybody is buying them now. Don’t be odd. Join the crowd. We can fill your order for a FORD FAMILY CAR, FORD ROADSTER, FORD SEDAN, OR FORD COUPE. McKnight Motor Company, Mooresville, N. C.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C. Writes Insurance. He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Notary and at your service.

At Dress-Up Time, your best friend is the efficient clothier and haberdasher who knows and is able to meet your needs. When your need asserts itself, try The Kelly Clothing Company, Mooresville, N. C. Kuppenheimer Smart Clothes. Florsheim Shoes.

The Rexall Main Street. Welcome, Davidson Men to the Geo. C. Goodman Co. Drug Store, Mooresville, N. C.