‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

FIGHTING WOFFORD TEAM.
(Continued from page 1)

On the Gridiron: all the limelights. The Scrubs showed just how good they were Saturday against Wofford.

—WILDCATS—

Tech is going to run a special train to the game, labbed. passes for a net gain of some 17
yards through the line. His interference, like that of Shepherd and Hendrix, was little short of sensational. Plans are now
under way to get the government to run a troop train from Atlanta to New York, and treat the big
city with a parade of Tech students down Broadway.

—WILDCATS—

Dope. “N.C. State 7; North Carolina 0. North Carolina 20; Wake Forest 0. Wake Forest 10; Davidson 7. You can’t
always believe the forecast. Figures showed that we were only about two touchdowns better than Wofford. The stuff were about
as many touchdowns better as we wanted to make.

—WILDCATS—

Hopes that those 13 touchdowns last Saturday will not act as a jinx. The main factor in the Wildcats' play
was the drive of the linemen. Although outweighed, they were always in control of affairs in their territory. Doc La
Far was the master of ceremonies and he pulled down any number of aspiring Terriers. The one best bet was
Carmichael’s returning of kickoffs. The big boy was heavy and fast and the Presbyterians had trouble in stopping him. But
this was the only department in which Wofford excelled. Aside from the fine work of Carmichael, the bang-up game of
Stevenson and Shumpet in the line featured for the Palmetto team.

—WILDCATS—

Some time early in November, Columbia Theological Seminary and Union Seminary will engage in a battle royal on the Davidson
courts. Arrangements are being made for the Davidson tennis team to play at least one, and probably both, of these
teams.

—WILDCATS—

Basketball Percentages Through Last Friday.
Won Lost Percentage
Sophomores 2 0 1000
Seniors 1 1 500
Juniors 1 2 333
Freshmen 1 2 333

—WILDCATS—

Rutgers’ coach said that the Tech team was even better than last Saturday indicates.

—WILDCATS—

The Richmond Spiders lost to Hampden-Sidney by a score of 7 to 5.

—WILDCATS—

The team leaves tomorrow night. Let's give ’em a good send-off. We have confidence in them so let's show it.

—WILDCATS—

The schedule this week shows the beginning of the really big games of the year. After a few weeks of
practice games, the teams of the big universities are matching up with others their own size and weight.

—WILDCATS—

Davidson made the third highest score run up by any team last Saturday. Schenck, 38. Black, 25. Lake, 15. Erwin,
80. Passes thrown by McFadden gained 53 yards, while Crawford’s passes gained 105 yards. Cincinnati beat Kentucky Wesleyan 115-0. Centre
walloped Transylvania 98-0.

Davidson: Position: Wofford:
Davis LE Rivers
Black RE Thompson
McFadden LH Gibson
Moore RH Carmichael
Beta QB Sanders

Score by quarters:
Davidson
Wofford

Length of quarters—15 minutes.
Officials:
Referee—Major, Clemson.
Umpire—Long, N. C.
Head linesman—

Substitutions—Davidson: Richards for Davis; Davis for Allen; Hamer for Long; Long for Hamer; Sorrell for Brice; Brice for Sorrell; Hunter
for Clarke; Black for Lake; Hendrix for Schenck; Schenck for Hendrix; Crawford for McFadden; McFadden for Crawford; Erwin for Moore;
Moore for Erwin; Shepherd for Bethea; Bethea for Shepherd; Long for McFadden; Brown for Bethea; Mallory for Black; Boggs for
Brown. Wofford: Carmichael for Sanders; Ott for Carmichael, E.; Clement for Ott; Sanders for Carmichael, E.

THE GAME PLAY BY PLAY

Davidson chose to defend the north goal and Wofford elected to receive. McFadden kicked off 50 yards to Carmichael who
returned 33 yards. LaFar topped Sanders without a gain, Carmichael made 5 at left tackle and Gibson added 1 at
right guard. Gibson punted 40 yards to Moore who returned 12 yards to the 22-yard line. McFadden 4 around right
end, Bethea through left tackle for 4, and Moore made first down off right tackle. Schenck fumbled but recovered for
a 2-yard loss. McFadden around left end for 4 yards, then he punted 30 yards to Thompson. Clark and Davis
threw Gibson and Carmichael for 1-yard losses. Gibson's pass to Carmichael was incomplete. Schenck blocked Gibson's punt.

LITERARY NEWS

FRESHMEN SOCIETY

The Freshman Eumenean Society held its best meeting of the year last Tuesday evening at 7:15. An interesting discussion was
waged on the question, “Resolved, That colleges in North Carolina should have supervision of high schools within a radius of
one hundred miles of them.” McLean and Freeland spoke on the affirmative, and McSwain, Earnest, and Martin completed the negative.
McSwain, the first speaker on the negative, spoke without the aid of notes and his speech ranked second only to
that of his colleague, Earnest, who delivered the best speech of the evening. Both sides advanced good arguments, students do
not receive the best course of preparation for college, and that under this plan this evil would be alleviated. The
negative advanced the argument that this plan would entangle the state schools and colleges with those under private or denominational
control and make a much more complicated and less efficient system of education. The house decided unanimously in favor of
the negative, but the judges rendered their decision two to one in favor of the affirmative. Martin gave a rendering
of “The Success of the Democratic Party During the War,” which was followed by Gallant’s delivery of Patrick Henry’s famous
speech.and recovered on Wofford’s 38-yard line. Moore made 14, Shumpert threw Moore for a 5-yard loss, Davis dropped McFadden’s pass.
McFadden punted to the 20-yard line. Thompson lost 1. A pass, Thompson to Davis, gained 3. Long got Gibson a
yard behind the line. Gibson punted 30 yards to Moore who returned 12. Ball on the 37-yard line. McFadden hit
left tackle for 4. Moore went around right end for 3 and over center for 8. Schenck made 12 at
left end, McFadden made 3, Moore made 5 and then one foot. On fourth with two feet to go, Schenck
carried the ball over. Schenck kicked goal. D. C. 7; Wofford 0. McFadden kicked off 45 yards to Thompson who
returned to the 30-yard line. Carmichael made 5 around right end and then repeated for first down. Gibson fumbled and
C. M. Davis recovered on the 43-yard line. Bethea made 5 and Moore added 2 before the quarter ended. Ball
on Wofford’s 38-yard line.

Last Thursday night at ten o'clock, the members of the Phi Society held a smoker for the purpose of discussing
and deciding whether to divide the society or not. After an extended and heated discussion, a vote was taken which
showed there were 39 for division and 27 against it.

Promptly at the appointed time, the hall was crowded with enthusiastic supporters of division and non-division. After a very satisfactory
repast, the question of division was taken up. For non-division, McKeithen was the first to speak. He first made a
general report of the condition of the society and then stated his reasons against making a new society. He showed
that the difficulties in forming a new society on account of funds, etc., would not warrant this action. McKeithen’s plan
was to divide the society into sections, each having separate meeting hours. J. C. Bailey, representative from the Eu Society,
explained, however, that the society divided into sections had met with a miserable failure in the Eu Society. Favoring the
formation of a distinct society were Burney and Baldwin, who argued that a “house divided against itself will fall.” To
this assertion, Clark made a timely reply which brought the house to its feet. After opinions from different members were
heard, a vote was taken and the divisionists were found to be successful. A committee to be appointed by the
president of the society, with himself as chairman, will decide on some plan of action.

The chief argument of the affirmative was that under the present system many members were not able to attend meetings
regularly. Clark and Hunter were also in the game. Bennett; Kingman for Thompson; Moore for Davis, Hamer; Mozingo for Gibson;
Porter for Bethea; and Black for Carmichael.

PHI FRESHMAN SOCIETY

The curtain was raised at the Fresh Phi meeting revealing the stage all set for a hard fight on the
question of whether the Ku Klux Klan was an asset or a liability to the nation. Brown gave the affirmative
a strong lead in showing that the Klan was taking the law into its own hands and pointing out instances
to back up his statements. He gave a careful outline of his speech and then followed it out well, presenting
a strong argument. Holtshouser came back with a well-built debate, soaring to the dizziest heights of oratory and clinching his
points in thunderous tones. He told the purpose of the Klan, told of the splendid service that the Klan had
rendered in the past and of its untarnished record. The next supporter of the affirmative, Black, brought out a number
of good points, among which were the Klan being a refuge to which criminals might retreat and cover their crimes
under the folds of a Ku Klux robe. He also brought up a number of crimes committed by Klansmen in
the past. Singletery rallied to the aid of the negative and brought forward some strong arguments in its favor. He
showed that since there was no one else to do it, the Klansmen were not outlaws when they justly punished
the depredations of the carpet-baggers and negroes in the immediate post-war period. In concluding his speech, he brought to light
the political and social aid rendered the state by the Klan and said that it was only due to their
vicious ignorance that the enemies of the Klan were attacking it. Lewis, the last speaker of the affirmative, told of
the secret and underhand (Continued on page 3)

Second Quarter.

McFadden's pass to Schenck gained 17. Moore around left end for 7 yards. McFadden made 5. Moore made one foot
and first down. Moore went through right guard for another first down. Bethea made 1. Moore circled right end. (Continued
on page 6)

Rackets

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248

Harvard vs. Centre, at Cambridge.
Kentucky vs. Sewanee, at Louisville.
North Carolina vs. Maryland, at College Park.
N. C. State vs. V. M. I., at West Raleigh.
Ga. Tech vs. Penn State, at New York.
Princeton vs. Virginia, at Princeton.
Wake Forest vs. Guilford, at Wake Forest.
W. and L. vs. V. P. I., at Lynchburg.
Vanderbilt vs. Tennessee, at Nashville.

MARSHALS AND SECOND TERM OFFICERS ELECTED BY EUMENEANS

At the regular meeting of the Eu Society last Thursday, officers were elected for the second term. P. A. Miller
was elected president; D. H. Ogden, vice-president; A. M. Hillhouse, secretary, and J. M. Richards, reviewer. Patterson is to retain
the office of treasurer throughout the year. The marshals for Senior Speaking were also chosen: Those selected were J. C.
Bailey, A. C. Summers, H. H. Smith, and J. P. Price.

THE NOVELTY FOUR

This organization is just what the name implies, a “Novelty” company. Selections of great variety are given in a manner
at once artistic and entertaining. Vim and life abound, and the audiences are always enthusiastic in their praise of this
splendid Lyceum company. Instrumental music predominates, but male quartet numbers and readings also find place in their programs. The orchestral
numbers are rendered with spirit and snap while the individual instrumental work is excellent. Violin, cornet, and piano solos are
features of the program. The Novelty Four is a company which has made for itself an exceptionally excellent record on
the Lyceum platform. Van O. Browne is the manager and feature artist of the company.

What about that fall suit that you failed to order early in the season? It’s not too late yet for
us. Schloss Bros. & Company, Baltimore.

The Davidson University Boot Shop
Shoes for Every Occasion
Satisfaction Guaranteed

Printing and Engraving of Every Kind
Full line of Fine Stationery---Plain, College Seal, Fraternity
“If we haven't got what you want, we'll get it on short notice”
College Commissary

GOLF - BASKETBALL - TENNIS
COME IN AND LOOK OVER THE LINE
Tennis Rackets restrung quickly
Wool Sweaters
Goodman’s
