THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

Trinity this afternoon in tennis. Get out and help the team start the tennis season off right. Last year Trinity
and Davidson played two matches, each winning one. The team will line up as follows: Bradley, Ormond, Cunningham, and Wilkinson;
in the order named. Bradley and Wilkinson compose the first doubles team, Ormond and Cunningham the second.

—Wildcats—

“Tech Beats Furman Most Terribly.” Headlines in The Observer. Furman’s hopes have been dashed headlong, for a comparison of scores
shows that Davidson is one touchdown better than Furman. A man who saw the Tech-Furman game said that the score
could have been doubled, but that in the last part of the game whenever Tech got the ball they booted
it back to the Baptists and practiced defensive play.

—Wildcats—

Citadel seems to have a better team than usual, for they beat P. C., 20-0, and Wofford, 28-0.

—Wildcats—

Dope was upset again when the Middies tied a can to Princeton 13-0. Princeton was rated by experts as the
strongest team in the east.

—Wildcats—

In games so far Tech has averaged 55 points a game against all her opponents. Auburn has averaged 45 a
game. The Thanksgiving game between these two promises to be a royal scrap.

—Wildcats—

In two weeks the Wildcats will try to crush the Spiders from Richmond University. Comparative scores give them the edge.
U. of Va., 28; Davidson, 0. U. of Va., 14; Richmond U., 0.

—Wildcats—

If Spratt was as big as Heckman nothing less than All-American would be his speed.

—Wildcats—

The Fresh upset the dope last week in the class basketball series. Get out and root for your class. The
series is getting right interesting.

—Wildcats—

"There's no telling what the day may bring forth," said the man at Keith’s. Get in behind the team for
all your worth, and show ’em we are backing them, win or lose.

—Wildcats—

Following are comparative scores with Wofford: Davidson, 7; P. C., 0. P. C., 0; Citadel, 20. Wofford, 0; Citadel, 28.
Old man Dope says we have it on them by at least two touchdowns.

—Wildcats—

Schedule for Friday and Saturday.

Friday, October 21.
Clemson vs. Furman, at Greenville.

Saturday, October 22.
Davidson vs. Wofford, at Davidson.
Alabama vs. Sewanee, at Birmingham.
Georgia vs. Oglethorpe, at Athens.
Georgia Tech vs. Rutgers, at Atlanta.
Centre vs. Transylvania, at Lexington, Ky.
Virginia vs. Johns Hopkins, at Charlottesville.
W. & L. vs. Morris Harvey, at Lexington, Va.
William & Mary vs. Wake Forest, at Norfolk.

—Wildcats—

FIGURES ON DAVIDSON-WAKE FOREST GAME

Davidson. W. Forest.
First downs 16 9
Yards penalized 10 20
Average kickoff 47 40
Average return 14 15
Average punts 35 31
Passes attempted 13 4
Passes completed 5 2

Individual. Yds. Gained. Yds. Lost
Moore 203 1
Bethea 24 0
McAlister 71 0
Schenck 61 1
Heckman 112 4
Boylin 25 0
Brandon 29 0
Armstrong 13 15
Fulton 4 1
Shepherd 5 0

Total yards gained by Davidson 379
Total yards gained by Wake Forest 172
Yards lost by Davidson 1
Yards lost by Wake Forest 21

ADVANCE DOPE ON WOFFORD.

A battle royal is promised on Sprunt Field Saturday when Davidson meets the much-touted Wofford football team. This is the
first time the two colleges have met since 1917 on the gridiron. Wofford’s team is built up around their left
half, Gibson, a tower of strength on the offensive. His stellar playing made possible their victory over Elon last week.
Carmichael, right half, and Davis, left end, have also been showing up well. Wofford’s weak point this year is their
line. Elon was able to gain almost at will through it, and the Wildcats can be expected to pound this
department mercilessly if there is any sign of weakening there. No comparative scores are available, but the following are the
results from Wofford’s games this year: Wofford, 22; N. G. A. C., 0. Wofford, 0; Citadel, 28. Wofford, 20; Elon,
7.

Many out-of-town visitors are expected for the game Saturday. Charlotte and Mooresville will probably turn out the largest crowds and
most of these will be there to cheer the Wildcats to victory. The probable line-ups which will face each other
on Sprunt Field Saturday are:

Davidson. Position. Wofford.
Schenck LE Davis
Davis, S. M. LT Moore
Painter LG Player
Sykes C Schumpert
Dabbs RG Inabinet
Clark RT Stevenson
Black RE Rivers
Bethea QB Thompson
Moore LH Gibson
McAlister RH Carmichael
McFadden FB Sanders

WAKE FOREST IS VICTOR (Continued from page 1)

pick him for a berth on the mythical All-State team.

The Game Play by Play.

Wake Forest kicked off 40 yards to Black, who returned the ball 10. Bethea made five yards over left tackle,
McAlister two over left tackle, and then Moore took it 15 around left end for first down. McAlister circled right
end for seven, Moore gained one at the same place, and Bethea took the pigskin over left tackle for first
down. Moore and McAlister made it first down again with a nine and six yard gain respectively. Ball on Wake
Forest’s 11 yard line. In three tries Moore and McAlister made six yards. A forward pass to Black grounded in
the end zone and Wake Forest put the ball in play on her own 20 yard line. Boylin and Heckman
made it first down. Fulton gained four, but Armstrong was stopped by McAlister for a six-yard loss. Heckman punted 30
yards to Moore who returned 10. McAlister, Moore and Bethea with two, four, and five yards apiece, made first down.
McFadden gained four over right tackle, Schenck gained two around left end. McFadden punted 20 yards. Heckman made it first
down with seven and four yard gains. Armstrong gained five around left end but on the next play Hunter got
him for a three yard loss. Heckman punted to Moore, who returned 10 yards. McAlister and Moore failed to gain.
McFadden punted 30 yards. Wake Forest was penalized five yards for offside. Fields was hurt and Brice took his place.

First quarter.

Second Quarter.

Heckman gained 30 yards around right end. Boylin and Heckman failed to gain. A pass, Heckman to Boylin, was incomplete.
Heckman tried a drop kick, which was short and Moore ran it back 50 yards. McAlister failed to gain. A
pass, McFadden to Schenck, got nine yards. Moore skirted left end for 10 yards and first down. Wake Forest was
penalized five yards. Bethea made three over right tackle. Moore made it first down with seven around right end. Ball
on Wake Forest’s 15 yard line. Bethea fumbled, Bowdin, of Wake Forest, recovering. Wake Forest punted outside, on D. C.’s
40 yard line. Moore got nine yards around right end, and McAlister made it first down with two over tackle.
McAlister skirted left end for 30 and McFadden ran over left tackle for nine yards and first down again. A
pass, McFadden to Schenck, gained five yards. Moore gained six, and on a cross buck Schenck took the ball over.
Schenck kicked goal. Long kicked off 45 yards to Armstrong, who returned 10. Wake Forest failed to gain and was
penalized for offside. Heckman hurdled and McAlister made it first down. Bethea gained seven over center. Half ended with ball
on Baptist’s 30 yard line.

Second Half.

Hunter kicked off 50 yards to Armstrong, who returned 18. Brandon and

LITERARY NEWS

EUMENEAN SOCIETY DEBATES ARE TURNED INTO ORATIONS

In the absence of the president, the vice-president, H. H.Smith called the Eu Society meeting to order. The acting president
and E. B. McGukin led the devotional exercises. There was some misunderstanding among the debaters as to the subject. Team
and Lowry prepared on “Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan is a menace.” Carr and McIlwaine prepared on the subject,
“Resolved, That the colleges of North Carolina should take charge of the high schools within a radius of them.” The
gentlemen delivered their debates as orations. C. F. Wildman took for his oration subject one which proved to be of
great interest—“Women.” Mac Richards discussed foreign relations in his oration.

Heckman made first down over center. Heckman punted. Ball on Wildcat’s 25-yard line. Bethea fumbled and recovered. Lost eight yards.
Hunter punted 40 yards to Armstrong. Brandon gained 10 over center. Heckman got 26 over right guard. Ball on one-yard
line, first down. Heckman and Brandon failed to carry ball over. Hunter’s punt was blocked. Wake Forest recovered and on
third try made touchdown. Heckman kicked goal. Wake Forest kicked off to Moore, who returned ball 15 yards. A pass,
McFadden to Schenck, gained 15 yards. Two passes were incomplete, and Hunter punted 45 yards to Boylin.

Third quarter ended.

Fourth Quarter. Armstrong gained two yards over left guard. Heckman punted to Moore. Pass intercepted by Boylin on 23-yard line.
Armstrong and Heckman made first down. Boylin by three line plunges advanced the ball 10 yards. A completed pass gained
five yards. Armstrong lost five yards when McAlister caught him behind the line. Pass to Heckman gained 15 yards. Davidson
was penalized 10 yards. Heckman bucked line for three yards. Armstrong lost three yards, Mallory substituted for Hunter. Heckman drop-kicked
goal. Score: Wake Forest 10, Davidson 7. Wake Forest kicked off to D’Armond, who returned the ball 10 yards. Two
passes were incomplete. Moore circled end for 20 yards. Pass to Schenck incomplete. Pass, McFadden to Moore, gained 15 yards.
McFadden gained one yard over left tackle. Pass, McFadden to Schenck, gained 10 yards. Moore circled end for gain of
20 yards. Time up. Fields, Shepherd for McFadden, Davis for Schenck, Long for LaFar, Long for Moore, D’Armond for McAllister,
Mallory for Hunter. Wake Forest: Brandon for Boylin, Dixon for Brandon, Armstrong for Fulton, Brandon for Armstrong, Heckman for Brandon.
Referee: Burns (Idaho); Umpire: Major (Clemson); Head Linesman: MacDougall (N. C. State).

DEBATING COUNCIL WORKING ON INTERNATIONAL PLANS

The plans for the intercollegiate debates are as yet incomplete. It is quite certain that the Wildcats will have a
go with Randolph Macon, but as yet no date has been set and no query chosen for this debate. It
is hoped that the contest will come off about the second week in December as it will hardly be possible
after Christmas, on account of examinations. As for the subject, if the debate is in this state, Davidson will choose
both the subject and judges for the match and vice versa if it is staged in Virginia. Wake Forest has
been trying to get a triangular debate with Davidson and Trinity. However, Trinity is undecided about this triangle on account
of the triangle she had last year with northern colleges. It is still hoped that these three institutions may compose
a triangle. Of course, if the above triangle is secured, each debate will be staged on neutral ground.

The Freshman Eumenean Literary Society held its weekly meeting Tuesday night at 7:15. The society was called to order by
the president, after which President Bailey read the scripture and H. H. Smith led in prayer. The roll was called
and minutes read. There being no objections to the minutes they were adopted as read. The question of the debate
was, “Resolved, That the West Virginia miners were justified in their recent uprising.” The speakers for the affirmative were N.
G. Patterson, A. N. Moffatt, and T. F. Staley; for the negative, H. M. Moss, McGregor, and W. A. Hay.
All the speeches of the evening were good, and were enjoyed by the entire society. Moss’ speech was considered by
the critic as the best of the evening. The house and also judges cast their vote in favor of the
negative. The question was thoroughly discussed by both sides, and enjoyed very much by the society. Following the excellent debate
of the evening, the society was favored by three well-delivered declamations by Ramsey, White, R. G., and Steele, J. T.
The three declamations were good selections and the declaimers put plenty of pep in their speeches. The report of the
critic was made. The report of the vice-president was called for. He having no report to make, and there being
no further business to come before the house, the society adjourned.

FREEMAN AND ROGER McGIRT STAR IN PHI SOCIETY HALL

With the oratory of Freeman and the eloquence of McGirt, the meeting of the Phi Society last Thursday night was
a complete success both in interest shown by the audience and enthusiasm by all on the program. As Freeman had
to leave early, he gave his oration on the “Young Farmer” first. He told of the problems a young farmer
had to face in starting out in life. The subject for regular debate was announced as, “Resolved, That the colleges
of North Carolina should have supervision of all high schools within a hundred-mile radius of them.” The affirmative defended the
question with these points: That this plan will fill the need of the colleges; that the standards of the high
schools will be raised by this plan; that the state has not sufficiently filled this need, and the colleges must
fill it. The negative argued the question on these grounds: That the colleges have no time for this supervision; that
this plan might wipe out some of the vocational features in the high schools; that with this system in force
high schools would only prepare men for the college in that particular district. The decision was unanimous for the affirmative.

In the extemporaneous debate, Brown and Matheson debated long and hard. The subject was, “Resolved, That Davidson should retain a
maximum of five hundred men for a period of five years.” The judges decided two for the negative. Before closing,
the society decided to have the next meeting at 10 o’clock next Thursday night, when there will be a smoker
and a discussion upon the advisability of dividing into two societies. Every member of both the Junior and the Senior
sections is urged to be present for this discussion. The regular program will be carried out the following week.

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248

Strouse & Company
Baltimore

GOLF - BASKETBALL - TENNIS
Tennis Rackets restrung quickly
Alex Taylor
All-Wool Sweaters
Prices Right -- Satisfaction Guaranteed

Bill Goodman’s University Boot Shop
Shoes for Every Occasion

What about that fall suit that you failed to order earlier in the season? It’s not too late yet for
us.

Printing and Engraving of Every Kind
Standard Bias
Full line of Fine Stationery -- Plain, College Seal, Fraternity
"If we haven't got what you want, we'll get it on short notice”

Schloss Bros. & Company
Baltimore
