THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1921.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

HORRORS!! Fresh Beall went to the infirmary leaving the following note: “Have gone to the infirmary, but will probably be all right tomorrow. I have ‘The Yellow Typhoon.’” Yes, he carried this book down there to read, but Wallace Moore, seeing the note, swore he'd be in the infirmary a couple of weeks.

Small Doses.

Snag—Say, Lawson, are you playing that piece in parts.
Lawson—Yes.
Snag—Well, leave my part out, please.

Essay on Geese.

The following composition on geese was written, according to Capper’s Weekly, by a school-boy in St. Louis. “Geese is a heavy-set bird with a head on one side and a tail on the other. His feet is set so far back on his running gear that they nearly miss his body. Some geese is ganders and has a curl on his tail. Ganders don’t lay or set. They just eat, loaf and go swimming. If I had to be a geese, I would rather be a gander. Geese do not give milk, but give eggs, but for me, give me liberty or give me death.”

Lookout Fresh.

A horse is a most dangerous animal—Beware Fresh.

Why Not?

These pretty nights why not open your mouth and let the moonshine in?

A New Style.

Horace Williamson asked Greentree’s representative if he would get a pair of knickers with a Tux.

A Ditty.

In A Company, R. O. T. C., there’s a corporal named P. C. He does squads right with all his might, and the captain says rot I see.

A Question.

Soph—Say, Murdock, why is it they capture so many stills in a graveyard?
Murdock—I don’t know.
Soph—Because there are so many spirits there.

Advance.

Booth while visiting a neighboring church was asked by an old gentleman of that church if the lady he escorted was his wife.

Pay Up.

P. D.—Fresh, have you your board money yet?
Fresh Laws—No, but I have some paper money.

Darkness.

Diogenes would need two or three high powered lanterns to find an honest man on the campus now.

Ignorance.

Slink Black looking at the statue of Venus De Milo asks who broke the girl’s arm off.

It’s So.

Everybody is one light light in Georgia.

Give ’Em Air.

Fraser—“Coach, where are you going?”
Coach Moore—“To Rumple, the garden spot of the campus.”
Fraser—“Yes, a garden full of onions.”

WILDCATS BREAK LEASHES.

(Continued from page 1)

well known colors are “green and green,” was the last man to board the train. He swung on to the hand rail and as the groaning wheels announced the departure of the train, a voice from behind him urged that he find a seat in the coach, “Get off the steps,” commanded voice. “I want to get on.” Rather indifferently the Fresh turned and with the overbearing air of a cadet lieutenant, asked, “Who the thunder are you, anyhow.” “Only the conductor,” muttered the first speaker as he swung the last coach.

Wearn Field, the scene of many a past engagement, became the first camping ground of the Wildcats. The Davidson eleven was on the field when their supporters arrived, and a few moments were lost in preliminary arrangements. The game was in swing and the Wildcat enthusiasm was cut loose to such a pitch that one of the occupants of the box seats was heard to remark, “If those are wildcats, I’d hate to hear an elephant.”

In the period between halves, when the score stood 7-0 with Davidson at the big end, the entire aggregation turned out for one of the “snakiest” snake dances ever staged in the Queen City. Amid the cheers of the “Queens” in the grandstand and the strains of “O Davidson” from the band, the field was made a veritable sea of living creatures. The line writhed from one end of the park to the other and everyone in the near vicinity was made to know that the “Wildcats” were out for blood.

The game over, the fellows dispersed to every quarter of the city, the movie houses and cafes coming in for liberal patronage. One of the most enjoyable features of the day was the reception tendered by the students of “Queens,” and when the fellows boarded the train that was to bear them back to “Jaybirdville,” in the wee small hours of the night, more than one fellow was heard to say, “Queens is right.”

Rev. and Mrs. M. B. Woosley left Tuesday for High Point to attend the annual Methodist conference which convenes in the Wesley Memorial Church on the 10th. Mr. Woosley is closing a very successful pastorate of four years in Davidson, and it is hoped he will be returned for another term.

NEW INSTRUCTOR ADDED TO R. O. T. C. TEACHING STAFF HERE

The latest addition to the R. O. T. C. headquarters is Capt. Julian H. George. Captain George arrived at Davidson about three weeks ago, coming from Camp Jackson, where he was stationed. In conjunction with Captain Ellis, he has charge of the Freshmen, as a result of

AND VARIED LINE OF GOODS

Andrews; “American English,” by G. M. Tucker; “College and Commonwealth,” by John H. McCracken, and “The Ana-” by Morgan. It is to your advantage to drop in the library and look over the books, especially the latest ones.

CAMPUS SWARMS WITH IKEYS

One hears of “Industrial Schools,” but we never thought Davidson to be among them. Yet the number of men who carry a pocket full of samples around with them all the time, a tape measure in one hand and an order blank in the other makes one realize that the men here are very industrious. The campus is artistically adorned and decked with beautifully painted placards in fighting colors which tell of a certain fellow in a certain room who wants to order your fall clothes for you. He also has a pair of extra socks to sell. In going across the campus, before one gets mid-way, someone will speak very nicely, and be extremely sociable, yet with the third breath he will ask, “Do you need an overcoat?” Or, perhaps, “Have you bought your fall suit yet? It's time to get it.”I already have mine.” And the fourth breath will be, “Come around to my room, I can show you all kinds of clothes, latest styles too!” Yes, they have it, everything from a wash-rag to a “Fresh cap.”

DR. E. W. SKYES SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

However, the great Louisiana Purchase was made by the United States, thus blocking Napoleon’s plans. The War of 1812 was fought for free trade and seamen’s rights. Napoleon was defeated and exiled, and the Congress of Vienna met to divide up Europe. The South American States declared themselves independent, soon after which the famous Monroe Doctrine was issued.

Then the speaker discussed the Spanish-American war when the English navy stood in Manila Bay at the service of Dewey. Then in the great World War, Americans and English fought side by side. The future welfare of the world depends on keeping these two great nations, England and the United States, which have the same ideals and moral standards, united by the bonds of friendship. Cursed be he who would destroy the alliance between these two countries, for in them lies the hope of humanity’s salvation.

The first-year men are making rapid strides in mastering military principles. Captain George is a native of Charlottesville, Va. He attended the University of Virginia for three years as an academic student and for one year as a medical student. At the outbreak of the war, he went to the Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Meyer, Va. Leaving there, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 317th Infantry, which soon embarked for France. The Eightieth Division was incorporated into the English forces, and while with the English, Captain George first acted as Battalion Scout Officer and afterwards Regimental Intelligence Officer. This was during the spring and summer of 1918. When the American forces came over in larger numbers, the Eightieth Division united its forces with them. On his return to this country, he was first stationed at Camp Logan, Texas, with the Fifty-Seventh Infantry, but later was transferred to Camp Jackson, and from there to Davidson.

It is with a feeling of mingled joy and respect that Davidson students welcome Captain George to the campus. His arrival means the further upbuilding of the R.O.T.C. However, it is hoped that not only will his coming bring good to the college but also that he will derive much good and pleasure from his association with us.

UNION LIBRARY HAS ADDED STILL MORE NEW ORDERS

Among the new books received at the library in the past week are to be found a number of most interesting ones both in fiction and otherwise. The best in fiction are: “Alice Adams,” Booth Tarkington’s latest book; “Brass,” by Chas. G. Morris; “The Thirteen Travellers,” by Hugh Walpole, and “The Pilgrims,” by E. Phillips Oppenheim.

Other additions are: “Women of the South in War Times,” by Matthew P. Andrews, and “The Analyzed Bible,” in three volumes, written by G. Campbell Morgan.

PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 21, 22

OVERTURE
PICTURES
DAVIS AND DORE
Singing and Dancing Hawaiian Act
RUTH WARREN & COMPANY
Singing Girls
THE SEVEN HONEY BOYS
Seven Singing and Dancing Comedy Entertainers
LANG AND VERNON
The Up-to-Date Comedy Couple
LILLIAN’S DOGS
Unique Display of Canine Intelligence

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

SENIORS WIN FROM JUNIORS
(Continued from page 1)

The first half ended in just such fashion, although the new men always trailed close enough to be able to cause damage. The upperclassmen’s defeat at the hands of the Fresh marks the third game which the present Senior class has lost since entering Davidson. The present club, with the lone loss of Erwin, has fought through two years without a single defeat. The Freshmen earned a hard-fought game and deserved all of the honors which they captured. They came back in the second period trailing the Seniors by a 15 to 7 count, and by close guarding held the upperclassmen to one lonely field goal, while Coach Crawford’s men were piling up 11 counters. Both clubs fought hard, with Ormond, for the Seniors, and Anderson and Staley, for the Fresh, showing the best stuff.

Summary:
Seniors (17) Position Freshmen (18)
Ormond (C) (5) - Staley (6) Left Forward
Doubles (4) - Covington (0) Right Forward
Cornelson (2) - Anderson (C) (5) Center
Freeman (4) - Morrison (2) Left Guard
Price (2) - Coenig (0) Right Guard

Substitutions—Vann (1) for Covington; Mitchell for Vann. Four goals: Ormond 1 out of 2; Staley 2 out of 3, Vann 1 out of 3, Anderson 1 out of 1. Referee: Coach Hengeveld. Time of halves: 20 minutes.

Postmaster M.W. Cranford spent last week in Washington, D.C. on business.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45. Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS