Speaking of Sports

The Wildcats won two more games last week. This makes four collegiate games won and two lost. Their percentage thus
far is .666.
——Wildcats——

The team started yesterday on its first North Carolina trip. They take them on in the following order:
February 16—Elon at Elon.
February 17—N. C. State at Raleigh.
February 18—University of N. C. at Chapel Hill.
——Wildcats——

Davidson has scored 293 points to their opponents' 266. This shows that Coach Hengeveld’s scoring machine is getting limbered up
and will be in prime condition for all the frays this week.
——Wildcats——

Elon played a fine, clean, hard-fought game. We complimented them on their sportsmanship. Florida played hard and roughly, and the
cleanness of the game was marred several times by players of both teams.
——Wildcats——

The other teams in the state met with varying luck during the past week. Guilford split even, winning from N.
C. State and losing to Wake Forest. Wake Forest also won from N. C. State, exactly doubling their opponent's score.
Trinity played only one game, taking the Uni. of Florida into camp by a score of 49 to 22.
——Wildcats——

Trinity invaded Virginia this week, taking on the University, V. M. I., and W. and L. She has been resting
up lately getting in shape for this little jaunt.
——Wildcats——

The University has been easing up a bit since their long northern trip. They will play the Wildcats at Chapel
Hill Friday night. The winner of that game will have a good claim for the state championship.
——Wildcats——

TRACK CANDIDATES HARD AT WORK—PROSPECTS GOOD FOR STRONG TEAM

For the past week, the candidates for the track team have been unable to practice because of continued rains. However,
on Friday and Saturday afternoons the track men were able to practice in front of Chambers. Coach Grey coached the
men in weight events, hurdles, and dashes. The athletic field has been in such a condition as to make practice
on it impossible. For this reason, the pole vault and jumping practice has been temporarily deferred. The field is being
worked on and it is hoped that the practices can be carried on there this week.

Leonard Dick, captain and manager of the team, says that some excellent material has been found among the aspirants coming
from the Fresh class, and that prospects are good. The schedule for the team is as follows:
April 8, N. C. State, at Raleigh.
April 16, U. of S. C., at Davidson.
April 23, Clemson, at Clemson.
May 7, State meet, at Chapel Hill.

The date for the field day has not yet been decided.
——Wildcats——

WRESTLERS BEGIN PRACTICE—CONTRACTS SIGNED FOR TWO MATCHES

The basement of the gym has seen a lively time during the past week. About thirty “mighty men of the
mat” responded to the call of “Jap” Cummings and are being rounded into shape under the coaching of “Jap” and
“Bill” Roberts. Practice begins at four o'clock every afternoon. Contracts have been signed for matches with Washington and Lee for
March 12 and V. M. I. for March 13; both to be held at Lexington, Va. There is a probability
of return matches for both of these and also a match at Chapel Hill. All of these will be hard
contests; but with the coaches as a nucleus, we should be able to build up a team that will give
them more than they are looking for. A tournament will be held during the first week in March in order
to pick a team.

Athletic News

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1921.

WILDCATS WIN (Continued from page 1)

roughest game seen here this season, the play at times assuming the aspect of a gridiron contest. Both teams were
rather free with fouls and the whistle was blowing repeatedly.
——Wildcats——

Florida started things with a rush and had five points to her credit before the local crew could cage one.
But the Davidsonians picked up strong and took

McKeithen, J. H., Fallen Idols.
McLaughlin, J. C. B., The Land of Opportunity.
McLeod, F. D., As the Child is Trained the Man is Inclined.
McLeod, W. M., The Death of a Nation.

DAVIDSON BASKETEERS (Continued from page 1)

to give a good account of themselves, however. The final game of the trip will probably be the hardest of
the bunch, Caro-

WILDKITTENS GO INTO ACTION SATURDAY NIGHT

Trained Quadrupeds of Coach Hengeveld to Meet Winston-Salem High. Admission One Dime.

Saturday night Coach Hengeveld will put on exhibition for the first time this year his specially trained Wildkittens. Although still
young and unfamiliar with the ways of this cruel world, “Dutch” feels that with the tricks learned in two months
against the “old cats,” the kittens will make someone sit up and take notice. The basketball tossers from Winston-Salem Hi
will play the part of the ball of twine for the kittens to roll around the gym floor. The twin
city lads have been running wild this season and believe that they will be able to twist the kitten’s tail.
But the kittens have had their tail twisted before by the “Papa cats,” and they know that it isn’t a
pleasant sensation. So woe be it unto the foolish youth who tries to lift the kittens off the floor by
the wrong end.

The right claw of the “pussy” is the more experienced and it will be the one that first swings at
the visitors from the tobacco city. All good kitten’s paws have five claws and the Wildkitten is no exception. Each
claw is well sharpened and is sure to make itself felt on Saturday. McConnell at left forward will be the
“thumb claw” on the pussy's paw. Much is expected of the “thumb claw” and “Claw Jim” is sure to fill
the bill. McDonald will be Jim's running mate at right forward, and “Claw Sam” will tear many threads from the
ball. Of course, the longest claw is in the middle and Mauze holds down this job. If the game last
year the “Mose Claw” got broken but it is back in form now and will tear some big strips out
of Prince Albert's Coat. The last two claws are short, but OH! How sharp! The guards will be King and
DeArmond. “King Claw,” and “Doc Claw” are new in the paw; they have not realized their full growth but they
are sharp and strong. With them at the guard position the “Camel” and “Brown's Mule” are not likely to go
back “wagging their tails behind them.”

The left paw will be ready to take a swing if the right one can’t turn the trick. Claws Hunter,
Toney, Brake, and McPherson are raring to tear off a chew of Brown’s Mule that will last for some days
to come.

WILDCAT GLEE CLUB MAKES MERRY AT QUEENS

Monday night before a good house at Queens the Glee Club gave a rousing concert, the first of their week's
tour through this State. From the first strains of “College Ties” to the last words of “O! Davidson,” every minute
was filled with good old Davidson melody. The features of the whole program were the selections byThe whole chorus and
by the string sextette. Frank Law and Fred Thompson were brought back many times, and the “Jazz Orchestra” brought due
applause after each number. The college quartet, though crippled by the absence of Moore and Shepherd, performed well. Too much
credit cannot be given to Francis Northrop, whose work at the piano would do credit to any college. Taking it
all in all, a very good concert was given, but great improvement is expected with each succeeding concert. Watch for
news from Winston, where the boys break the Salem hearts Tuesday night. Then Lexington, Asheville, and Hendersonville are to be
made in succession. The personnel of the club follows:

First Tenors: C. H. Vance, W. H. Robinson, C. H. Long, and H. Meyers.
Second Tenors: F. N. Thompson, J. H. McKeithen, C. J. Matthews, W. B. Carr, Robt. McLeod, J. M. Adams.
First Bass: O. J. Allison, J. W. Phillips, F. Law, R. J. Rudge.
Second Bass: J. D. Barnhardt, D. P. McGeachy, A. V. Gibson, Frank Northrop, pianist.

Immediately after the concert, the Queens girls gave the club a very enjoyable reception. Delicious cream was served which it
is needless to say was thoroughly enjoyed. Here's to you Queens!

The lead never to be headed during the remainder of the game. Florida depended too much upon long shots and
did not work the ball up under the basket enough. The first half ended with Davidson in the lead 23-12.
The second half showed an improvement in the playing of the “Alligators” at first and they threatened to cop the
lead again. However, they failed to make it, and then seemed to lose out altogether, as the Wildcats, led by
Bill Roberts, shot goal after goal despite their struggles to prevent it. The score reached forty and amid yells to
“Make it fifty” by the gallery the Wildcats did their best to do it. However, they failed by five points
as the whistle terminated the conflict at 45-26.

Roberts led the floor in scoring, while John Schenck also put up a fine game for the Red and Black.
Romefelt was in it all the time. Madison, the Florida right forward, outclassed his mates in scoring, making over half
their points.

Line-up:
Florida Position Davidson
Madison (14) J. Schenck (14) R. F.
Ward (2) Roberts (19) L. F.
Hughes (4) Romefelt (10) C.
Byrd (2) Crawford (2) R. G.
Moss (4) L. Schenck L. G.

Substitutes—Florida: Cohen for Ward, Ward for Cohen; Jerremiasen for Ward. Davidson: Davis for L. Schenck; Ormand for Roberts; McConnell for
J. Schenck; Price for Crawford; DeArmond for Romefelt. Referee, Christenbury.

JR. ORATORICAL EXERCISES (Continued from page 1)
Freeman, T. A., That is the Man.
Grantham, V. G., Immigration.
Groves, J. W., The Mountaineer.
Hanrahan, B. S., The Sixth Sense.
Holmes, R. W., Caste.
Horton, L. T., The Modern Dance.
Hughes, C. E., The Present Economic Question.
Johnson, J. S., Education.
Johnston, W. G., Lest We Forget.
Jones, G. O., Divorce.
Jones, J. R., Efficiency.
Knight, J. I., The South as a Man-maker.
Knox, W. L., Transportation.
Lacy, T. A., A New Call to Service.
LaFar, D. R., Jeffersonian Democracy.
Lake, W. J., Problems of the South Today.
Lowry, T. M., Davidson: An Aristocratic Democracy.
Lowrance, D. W., The Final Squeeze.
McAlpine, P. H., Our Chance in Mexico.
McCain, W. K., From Rib to Ribbon.
McFadden, J. M., Militarism.
McGeachy, D. P., The Importance of Our Speech.
McGill, M. W., The Melting Pot.
McGukin, E. B., The Greatest Man in the World.
McIlwaine, R. R., The Amateur.

Carolina being played at Chapel Hill. The University lads have an exceptionally good team this year and have a long
string of scalps on their belts, that of Durham “Y” being among them. Thus far Trinity has been the only
State team that has taken their measure, and she turned the trick by the small margin of one field goal.
Carolina has just returned from a long Northern trip on which they won four out of nine games. The Southern
lads were leading until the last moments of play in the games lost, but couldn’t stand the pressure of fresh
substitutes against them. It is easy to see that the Red and Black ball tossers stack up against some real
teams on this trip. If they are successful in all three games the State championship will be theirs for the
asking. “Go get ‘em Wildcats.”

Mahood, D. L., The Professional Scribbler.
Martin, T. F., The Power of Music.
Miller, P. D., Woodrow Wilson: the Idea.
Moore, W. W., A Better Davidson.
Nash, E. A., If.
Neel, G. M., The Inevitable Choice.
Ormand, A. C., The Creed of Courage.
Parkes, J. L., The Might of Little Things.
Patterson, T. H., The Farmers’ Union.
Phillips, J. W., The Need of Men.
Poole, H. R., Opportunity.
Poole, R. H., Factors of Success.
Price, J. K., Misfits.
Price, J. P., The Wildkittens.
Richards, J. M., A Nation of Fools.
Robinson, C. W., The Voice of the City.
Sanders, C. B., Stars.
Schenck, J. R., Elisha Mitchell.
Shaw, R. K., Who?
Smith, F. W., The Rapid Growth of Systematic Bookkeeping.
Smith, W. C., Privileges of Citizenship.
Spencer, D. W., The Complete Man.
Sprunt, J., The Freedom of the Seas.
Story, S. D., College Spirit.
Summers, A. C., Clemenceau.
Taylor, L. A., From the Chin Up.
Teague, C. F., The Federal Reserve System.
Tufts, E. H., The Hidden Territory.
Wilkinson, L. L., The Medium of Congeniality.
Wool, J. C., Individualism.
Wooten, J. C., Visual Education.
Wright, F. J., The Negro: a Problem.
Wyman, H. E., The Purification of Water.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. D. K. Walthall of Waynesboro, Va., visited their son here last week. Dr. Walthall coming to
Davidson after closing a meeting that he conducted for Rev. Chas. Hodgin in Greensboro. Mrs. W. H. Miley returned home
after an absence in Charlotte of more than a month, detained there by the illness of Rev. Dr. Miley. Mrs.
Chas. G. Vardell was the guest of her sister-in-law, Mrs. W. J. Martin. Mr. Murray visited his son, A. J.
Murray, last week. Miss Mary Richards spent the weekend with her parents.

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. McPHAETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

Basketball
Get ready for the final stretch in the race for basketball honors. We can furnish you with all kinds of
basketball supplies.
CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon) Phone 3248

LIFE INSURANCE-- A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
