THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

Misses Henderson and Crowell, popular young ladies of Charlotte, were visitors on the hill Monday afternoon.

Jim Black, of Badin, N. C., is visiting his mother.

Kodak Finishing
EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE
PRICES

Christian Cyrus Hall McCormick says: “Business is not inconsistent with Christianity, but the latter ought to be a help to
the former.”

Vest Pocket 2 1/4 x 3 1/4
2 1/2 x 4 1/4
3 1/2 x 5 1/2
Developing any size roll

We use glossy paper unless otherwise requested. Cash with order or work will be mailed C. O. D. Send negative
for sample print.

“From my own experience there is nothing on earth that business needs so much today as religion.”—O. M. Fisher, President,
Boston Boot and Shoe Club.

“The religion of the community is really the bulwark of business and of our investments. The underpaid preachers of the
nation are the men upon whom we are depending, rather than on well-paid bankers, lawyers, and brokers.”—Roger W. Babson, the
Statistician.

E. C. HOFFMAN HOLDS ATTENTION OF STUDENTS

Charlotte Photo Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALEX TAYLOR
Salisbury “Y” Secretary Emphasizes the Need for Thinking Men.

The Y. M. C. A. was very fortunate in securing as speaker for the vesper service on Sunday evening Mr.
E. C. Hoffman, at present the secretary of the community “Y” at Salisbury. Mr. Hoffman is an Oberlin graduate, and
has had many and varied experiences. He was engaged in welfare work in Manchuria and Siberia during the recent great
war.

The general topic discussed was, “How, in this time of flux and variation, can a man who has strong religious
convictions hold to them and still be tolerant and fair to the other fellow who has different views?” Mr. Hoffman
emphasized strongly the fact that the affairs of the world are today practically in a muddle, and that the outcome
is to be determined by the actions of the thinking men of the hour. The man who believes that there
is a God who is omnipotent, that God is good, who desires to do His will, and who believes that
the universe has a purposeful end—this man has a good working basis, and will come out right if he thinks
deeply and clearly. The men of today need to consider the facts of history, and to take a broad, historical
point of view in regard to all the great questions that come up before them.

One of the great dangers of the time is that there exists a tendency to follow blindly the leadership of
others, however ignorant and unworthy they may be, without each man’s thinking matters over carefully for himself. Much of the
present unrest is caused by hatred and suspicion, and the great need is for Truth, for Men who will think
clearly and fairly, and who are Christians at heart. There is a way out of the difficulties at hand, and
the solution lies in the hands of the Christian men who can and will Think, and who will give all
a fair chance and then let Providence decide the outcome.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY

PRESIDENT OF Y. M. C. A. SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEERS

Lewis Schenck, the “Y” president, spoke to 50 volunteers and their friends last Wednesday night on the “Value of Decision.”
In his talk Schenck showed how important it is to make a decision and to stick to it. He also
showed how decision gave one power not only to solve his own problems, but also to lead and help others
in overcoming their difficulties. Following Schenck, Ed Cunningham read an interesting letter from Rev. R. D. Bedinger, who has just
returned to his work at Lusambo, Africa. Mr. Bedinger will be remembered by many as one of the principal speakers
at the Student Volunteer Conference held here last spring.

The Deputation Committee reported that the following men will be sent out next week:
W. E. Crane and E. L. Hollingsworth to Monroe, N. C.
John Parks and Ted Jones to Paw Creek.
Dwight Chalmers to Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

SEVENTY-EIGHT STUDENTS PRESENT AT VOLUNTEER BAND FEED
Eats, Jokes and Speeches Enjoyed at General Good Time.

Rev. W. A. Nicholson, '13, pastor of the Woodleaf Presbyterian Church and member of the football squad of ‘10, which
defeated Carolina, with his assistant, Mr. Earle Current, were on the campus making arrangements for the Wildcat band to furnish
music for the Easter service in Woodleaf next Sunday.

LITERARY SOCIETY PROGRAMS.
Phi Society. March 24—Regular Debate
Affirmative: T. A. Lacy, S. M. Query, W. H. Matheson
Negative: H. G. Fenton, W. P. Kimsey, E. D. Brown
Extemporaneous: L. P. Burney, A. F. Fricker
Declamation: R. M. Cochrane, F. C. Thames

Eu Society
“In Belgium's capitol there was a Dream...”. To farmers: if you own an auto or team, or can get one;
if you can give bond with personal sureties, we back you with big selling helps. 52 years in business; also
in Davidson, last Tuesday night. For on that memorable evening, the Student Volunteers ate, drank, and made merry with their
friends to an extent that the entire gymnasium (and also several of the fellows afterward) rocked and groaned in agonized
protest.

Promptly at 10 o'clock, or indeed considerably before ten, 78 husky college boys, carefully selected and in the pink of
condition, gathered in the Y.M.C.A. rooms. When bidden, at last, to “go up,” they obeyed at once, and with all
that calmness and solemnity which is customary on such occasions, the little company filed slowly past St. Peter and into
the inviting portal. A grim Scotch silence of some 15 or 20 minutes followed, broken only by the popping of
dope bottles and by the steady tramping of moving feet, journeying ceaselessly from one table to another. At last, however,
even these noises subsided as the men one by one sank into seats in various corners of the room, gazing
at the bare tables with expressions of contentment and satisfaction which can come only from a sense of duty well
performed.

Making the statement that “If there's anything we Volunteers believe in, it's fun,” Price now broke up the peaceful scene
by demonstrating just how fully the Volunteers do propose to enjoy their surroundings and their associates. Two of the unsuspecting
visitors, David McAlpine and Goliath Long, were forced to engage in mortal combat with pillows, and to make the struggle
still more deadly, and defense even more difficult, both were blindfolded. Six other blindfolded men were asked to feed each
other, Hollingsworth and White being especially commendable for the affectionate attitudes they assumed. The call for jokes was nobly met
by Bobby Long and Davidson, who made Pat Miller take off his coat. Major McCaskill immediately clamored for the floor,
but the president wisely called on Dr. Arbuckle who expressed great surprise and pleasure at the number of students present,
saying that they evidently knew a good thing when they saw it. He went on to tell of the great
things which would be possible if the students would yield themselves to God’s guidance, telling of a rough engineer who
was converted and became one of our greatest ministers. Other speakers discussed spiritual development and the work of the band.
Chalmers emphasized the great possibilities of the absolutely consecrated life, saying that there was enough power in the 70 men
present to shake the world. Parks told of the great convention at Trinity, saying that it had helped him volunteer.
The president, Price, then closed the program, extending a cordial invitation to all who were at all interested in missions
to attend the regular band meetings on Wednesday evenings.

“Y” ANNOUNCES UNUSUALLY GOOD PROGRAM

Easter Sunday, the evening “Y” service will be turned over to the District Christian Endeavor Convention which convenes here at
that time. The convention will have distinguished speakers to lead this meeting and an exceptionally fine program is assured. Sunday
week, April 3rd, the “Y” will have as speakers a deputation from Columbia Seminary. No further word need be said
about these speakers, for the words “Columbia Seminary” alone carry enough recommendation to make everyone desirous of hearing them. Dr.
Thornton Whaling, whom many remember from his speeches of former years, is president of the Columbia Seminary. The deputation will
bring the seminary quartet with them and a fine treat is in store for all lovers of music.

Mr. R. S. Templeton, 78 years old, of Mooresville, N.C., father of Mrs. L. R. Brady, passed away at his
home Sunday night, March 20, 1921. Funeral at 10 o’clock Tuesday a.m., at Mooresville.

20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department C, Winona,
Minnesota.

L. D. Elkins
Declamation: J. R. Walker
Oration: M. B. Heizer
W. Kretschmor
D. B. Walthall
J. P. Price
C. F. Wildman
W. T. Elliot

J. B. Reading, Cornelius, N.C., Writes Insurance. He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every
facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING For College Students Is Our Specialty. Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the
highest in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co., Atlanta, Georgia

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music.
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N.C.

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

LIFE INSURANCE... A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N.C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
