e DAVIDSONIAN
‘of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Southern Collegiate Press Association.
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Friday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published --Forum Editor

Editor-in-Chief
V. X. GAMBLE, Jr.
Managing Editor
C. A. SMITH
Campus Editor
H. B. SMITH
Alumni Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN
Publicity Editor
REPORTERS’ CLUB
ED. MAUZE, E. H. BRADFORD, W. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres
BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. SMITH, M. Sec.-Treas
BROWN, W. P. SMITH, JR. GALBOPN, M. F. Jones, WALTHALL, D. B. EDRINS, L. D. KNOX, W. I. WILDMAN, A.
C. ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
W. S. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
M. R. DOUBLES
Asst. Circulation Managers
S. D. TULLER, S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL
This week witnesses the passing of the halfway mark in our fall term. Have you done half of a term’s
work?

Davidson considers herself fortunate in having a visit from her honored alumnus and ex-president, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, and it
is hoped that all who possibly can will come out to hear his address on Monday night.

The South is justly proud of Georgia’s splendid showing against Harvard and of Tech’s score against Rutgers, and The Davidsonian
wishes to add its word of congratulation to the many that have already been showered on these teams.

DAVIDSON SPIRIT.
How often we hear this phrase, and in how many different connections. Not a man of us but loves the
words and the thing for which they stand, yet who could give a definition of this spirit? It is an
indefinable something, something without which our college would cease to be a living force and become merely an institution of
learning, and yet something which we cannot fully understand.

It is like nothing so much as the electric current which lights our houses and turns the countless wheels of
industry. We cannot doubt the presence of an enormous power in the wires which conduct it, for we can see
its results on every hand, and yet we cannot adequately explain its source or its nature. We realize its existence
only by its effect. So it is with the spirit of our college. We cannot explain what it is nor
yet what brings it into being, but we can see its practical applications on every hand. There are innumerable ways
in which such a spirit works, no one of them showing it in completeness, but all together bringing out its
full significance.

Probably the first thought which suggests itself to us at the mention of Davidson Spirit is that of athletics, and
it is not so without a just cause. Our contests with other institutions are our chief means of demonstrating to
others that this spirit really exists. There is something glorious about a team which is putting its all into the
fight for mere love of its college; there is something appealing about a student body which gives its whole-hearted support
to that team whether it be victorious or defeated. There are sights which appeal to the imagination, and force themselves
on the attention. They are undeniably a tremendous influence in the life of the school. The trouble with them is
that in the minds of many they have become synonymous with college spirit and its other elements are forgotten. We
are too prone to judge the worth of an institution entirely by the incidents of the athletic field. Davidson teams
and Davidson student bodies have gained a reputation for sportsmanship and fighting spirit of which we are all proud. Let
us strive to maintain this reputation and this spirit, for without them our college could not be what it is
today, but let us not make the mistake of considering them the only things of importance.

If love for our college really means anything to us it should find application in our daily lives. A spirit
which does not seek to protect any place but on the gridiron is of little worth. No matter how wonderful
an exhibition of pluck and gameness a football player may put up, or how splendidly a student may have supported
his team, if he leaves the field and by his rowdyism and misconduct brings his student body into ill repute,
there is something lacking in his loyalty.

Again, in life on the campus our spirit should make itself felt. It is hard to believe that a man
who will not support student government, who wilfully destroys college property, or who is constantly striving to create discontent by
knocking things in general has the proper love for his college and devotion to its interests. We do not mean
to say that all those who are guilty of these things are totally lacking in Davidson Spirit. If this were
the case there is hardly one of us who could claim to be a loyal son of his alma mater.
We do believe, however, that this is the weak spot in our spirit, and that it is only by concentrating
our efforts on these more negative aspects that we can hope to make our college spirit what it should be.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

Open Forum
SOME LIGHT ON THE SUBJECT.
Two reasons can be advanced for not letting the article in last week’s Davidsonian on lights go unchallenged or ignored.
First: Many friends away from the college, not acquainted with the local conditions, might regard the article as a true
portrayal of the facts. Second: The men on the campus who have not been here long enough to know the
sustained policy of the college with reference to the comfort and success of the students should not have their minds
prejudiced.

It is true that there were men in college last year who had three, and even seven, lights, just as
there was a man in South Wing Chambers who had four mattresses on his bed while his neighbor across the
hall had none, and just as some men not many years ago kept a rooster and some hens in a
room in North Wing Chambers. Reference to the available records show that lights have not been “gradually diminished,” but that
one light of 16 c. p. was the allowance until 1913, then one light of 40 watts until 1919, when
two lights of 40 watts each were installed. Last year there was an increase made from 40 watts lights to
two 50 watts and at that time an expert from the Edison Mazda Lamp Works was brought here to measure
the foot candle power that the above wattage would give, and he, a man interested in providing abundant light, gave
the assurance that the allowance was altogether sufficient.

It is a fact, also, which probably did not occur to the writer of the article referred to, that the
buildings were wired when erected to accommodate but one small light to the room. Were three lights placed in each
room insurance regulations as to the amount of current for each circuit of wires in these buildings would be violated.
Had Chambers, Georgia or Watts burned last May, and the real situation with reference to the condition of the wiring
and fuse plugs been established, it is doubtful whether one cent of insurance could have been collected.

The writer of the article might have compared Davidson with other institutions. Winthrop, for instance, has one light and three
girls to each and every room. Ask the men of the athletic teams how Davidson compares in this respect with
the colleges they visit. The facts will not show that a very persistent effort has been made to depopularize Davidson.

It has been but a few years since there was a bushheap observed of all observers about 100 feet east
of the Georgia; all the bushes on the campus were piled there. There were no showers or toilets on either
end of Chambers until 1916; until 1919 each room in ChambersHad its own coal bin and the college provided no
fuel; there was no furniture provided in Chambers by the college until 1916. Refer to the copies of the Annual
and Davidsonians to get some idea of smoking refrigerators that were the sole dependence for heating the chapel and the
chemical laboratory. Papers were picked up around the dormitories possibly once a week. Records show that more than $3,000 has
been spent in the last five years on beds, mattresses, chiffoniers, and tables until now it is seriously doubted if
there is another college in the state that has on the whole as good furniture as Davidson. Until four years
ago a janitor was not paid more than $18 per month, while now the wages are twice that; coal was
$4.00 per ton and now $8.00, and the yearly requirement is about 750 tons. Other expenses have increased accordingly. The
college fees have been increased some, but hardly in proportion. It is regretted that the funds available have not made
it possible for the board to set aside an appropriation to calcimine and paint the interior of all the rooms
before now. The question has been considered from year to year. The manner in which the barracks rooms are treated
this year will, it is believed, be an argument in favor of having this work done in the very near
future. Two years ago Davidson asked the students if they would be willing to double up. The almost unanimous response
was a beautifully expressed loyalty. And no one yet, it is thought, has caressed her and she closed her eyes
in a number of lights to certain rooms and dormitories. Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

THE COLLEGE GRAD.

Tell me not in mournful numbers,
College is but waste of steam;
For although they make some blunders,
College men have got the “bean.”

All enjoyment and not sorrow,
Is the student’s life today;
Work put off until tomorrow,
Gives new life and time to play.

Art is long and science tedious,
And our hearts though brave and stout;
Like unmuffled Fords are beating,
When the X reports come out.

Lives of graduates all remind us,
We can throw away our time
And some day can leave behind us,
College life, the all sublime.
—Tar Baby.

“TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE.”

Now, the two kinds of people on earth, I mean, are the people that lift and the people that lean.
Wherever you go you will find the earth’s masses are always divided into just these two classes. And, odd enough,
you will find, too, I ween, there is only one lifter to twenty that lean. In which class are you?
Are you easing the load of overtaxed lifters who toil down the road? Or are you a leaner and let
others bear your portion of labor and problem and care? —Selected.

CONSOLED.

She lay in his arms and snuggled her head against his neck. A rush of emotion surged through her—tenderly he
caressed her and she closed her eyes in delight. “Poor kitty, did I step on your tail?” —Illinois Siren.

The Student Government at Richmond College has added another feature to its activities in taking charge of the chapel attendance.
No checking system is to be used, but when a student has been absent from chapel for six times, he
is on his honor to report himself to the Senate.

FRESHMAN DEBATES.

One of the most gratifying developments in the literary societies this year is the unmistakable evidence of a keen interest
on the part of Freshmen in their debates. In the first place, a large number of new men joined the
societies, and the fact that practically all of them have begun active work, either on the program or in the
tryout, augurs good for them and their society —Red and Black (University of Georgia).

AT PARTING.

He spoke to me in softest tones
And, leaning low above my chair,
He slipped his arm around my neck;
I was too desperate to care.
I felt his gaze upon my mouth
And—Well, hear the shocking truth;
I tightly closed my eyes, prepared
For him to pull my tooth.
—Ex.

The Yale University swimming team lowered the world’s record for the 800-foot relay nearly seven seconds when they paddled the
distance in two minutes and 22 seconds against the Pennsylvania quartet. The previous record, which was held by the same
team, was 2:28 4-5.

Davidson has spent thousands of dollars to make living and studying conditions better and expects to spend still other thousands
for the same good end.

With Other Colleges (By N. C.C. PA.)

N. C. C. W. LITERARY SOCIETIES ACTIVE

Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 18—The new students of the North Carolina College for Women will be officially received into the
literary societies of the college Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of this week through the initiation ceremonies of the societies. Notices
of election and invitations to initiation have already gone out, each society receiving a proportional number of the new students.
The Adelphian initiation and banquet will be held October 20th, the Cornelian, October 21st, and the Diken, October 22nd.

N. C. C. W. PLANS TO AID Y. W. C. A.

Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 18—By means of an intensive canvass and campaign now being staged on the campus, the Y.
W. C. A. of the North Carolina College for Women will increase its strength numerically and financially. A campaign program
having as its special features, the vesper service, a “stunt” demonstration on Wednesday evening, and the Y. W. C. A.
issue of the Carolinian, is expected to result in a great increase in membership, a better working organization, and the
raising of the recently accepted budget of $2,655.

(Editor’s Note—The short length of this department for this week is unavoidable. It is dependent on the other colleges, and
they failed to send in any news.)

LOCAL PUBLICATIONS SEND MEN TO PRESS CONVENTION

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its regular semi-annual meeting at the North Carolina College for Women, in
Greensboro, on Friday and Saturday, October 28th and 29th. The Davidson publications will be represented by W. A. Gamble and
J. H. McKeithan, for The Davidsonian, and D. T. Mahood and G. H. Cornelson, for the Davidson College Magazine. The
association is composed of ten or eleven North Carolina college weeklies and eight or nine college magazines. It was organized
last February at Chapel Hill with the object of promoting the best interests of the college publications of the state.
J. E. Cassell, former Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, was elected as first president at that meeting. At the last meeting,
which was held at Davidson last spring, Miss Anne Cantrell, of N. C. C. W., was elected president, and Miss
Emeline Goforth, of N. C. C. W., secretary. One of the principal features of the association is the weekly interchange
of news. The Davidsonian added a new department for this work and owing to the splendid work of W. J.
Cooper, publicity editor, it is now not only exchanging with all the North Carolina college publications, but also sending news
items to the leading newspapers throughout the South.

Y. AND JONES MCGUKIN, LACY

At the last meeting of the Polity Club, held in the Kappa Alpha Hall, several important national and international problems
were discussed. Though brief, the entire meeting was very interesting. Mr. Emmett B. McGukin, the first man on the program,
discussed “The Recent Developments in the Irish Situation.” On the other hand, “The Relations Between the United States and Ireland”
was thoroughly explained by Mr. T. A. Lacy. Both of these discussions brought out some striking facts in regard to
the Irish question, which has for some time been a menace to world peace. In a review of current events,
Mr. James R. Jones stressed the recent railway situation. This important question was discussed from many angles by the whole
club. This is only the second meeting of the club for the year and already it has done some splendid
work. The members are very much interested in the club, and are getting much out of it.
