4 i The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: F. F. Rice
Forum Editor: M. A. Gamble, Jr.
Managing Editor: H. H. Case
Campus Editor: C. Bailey
M.C. Editor: R. F. Sprunt
Assignment Editor: A. C. Ormond
Social Editor: H. Ogden
Athletic Editor: A. C. Summers
Literary Editor: H. McKeithen
Alumni Editor: J. L. Publicity Editor
Exchange Editor: H. McKeithen

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. Bitzer, Pres.
G. W. Mauze, V.-Pres.
W. M. Heston
H. M. Morris, Sec.-Treas.
M. P. Calhoun
J. C. Ives
J. W. Phillips
W. M. Cox
J. R. Jones
C. D. Tuller
C. E. Cunningham
T. A. Macy
D. B. Walthall
M. Elliott
D. L. Mahood
A. C. Wildman
E. Fewell
E. H. Mauze
C. F. Wildman

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager: E. P. Shepard
Asst. Business Managers: J. C. Wood, L. A. Taylor, E. T. Woolfolk, and W. S. Sill

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. Doubles, Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department: S. C. Fain, P. C. Henderson, K. Russell, C. D. Tuller, Watt McCain, R. L. Price

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL
“A good reputation is hard to earn and still harder to keep. A bad reputation is easy to earn and keeps itself.”

The blue stockinged warriors from P. C. put up a great fight Friday afternoon, winning the hearty respect of all who saw the game.

The posting of the guards between the halves of the aforementioned contest occasioned a good deal of amusement in the grandstand but accomplished its purpose all the same, and the Athletic Association owes these R. O. T. C. cadets a vote of thanks for the efficient way in which they kept the crowd off the field.

The assembling of the Golden Tornado in Atlanta may be like the gathering of a storm but the Wildcats are not afraid of bad weather.

The student body is glad to welcome Captain George as the latest addition to the list of our R. O. T. C. instructors.

Every day the student body is delayed in chapel by the reading of numerous notices about articles lost or found. Would it not be a wise idea to establish some one place on the campus where all articles found could be left, and thus do away with this needless waste of time?

THINK IT OVER.
At one time last year it was proposed that the student body should adopt and enforce certain rules with regard to a universal study period. According to this plan certain hours were to be laid aside each night during which all visiting and unnecessary noises on the campus were to be discontinued, and every student would have the opportunity of engaging in real and uninterrupted study. The wisdom of such a rule is easily apparent. Probably there is not a man on the campus who has not been disturbed in his preparation of classes by the visit of some idle friend who dropped in to spend a sociable hour of conversation, or who has not in his own moments of leisure disturbed the other fellow in turn. It is hard to continue one’s study on such occasions without seeming to be unfriendly and incurring the dislike of someone whose friendship at other times may be extremely desirable. And yet to cease studying during his visit means a certain failure on the next day’s recitations or perhaps on a review. Seemingly the easiest and surest solution of the difficulty lies in the taking of some action by the student body as a whole. For some reason the adoption of the proposed plan was not carried through last year. The school year of 1921-22 is hardly begun as yet, however, and it is not too late for us to obtain the benefits of a study period for our work this term. Let every student think it over and decide whether such a rule would not at least be worth trying, so that he may be ready to vote on the suggestion should the occasion arise.

THE OPEN FORUM.
As the official newspaper of Davidson College, The Davidsonian is striving to represent the life of the students, and to express the ideas and wishes of the entire student body. To fully accomplish this aim, however, is a difficult task for a staff of editors and reporters which constitute only a small part of our total number of students. It was to meet this difficulty that the department of the paper known as the Open Forum was first instituted several years ago. This department is the personal property of every man in college. Through it you can put your ideas and plans before your fellows without fear of exposure or derision. If something is not going as it should on the campus and you know the remedy or if you know of some new institution which would be of benefit to the college, let it be known through the Forum. Any unobjectionable article may obtain a place in the paper by being first handed to Julian Price, the head of this department. The Forum is yours. Do not hesitate to use it for any constructive criticism or helpful suggestion. By doing so you may be the means of starting some movement which will be of great benefit to your college.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

Open Forum
DAVIDSON COLLEGE MAGAZINE TO HAVE LOST AND FOUND.
We have prayers every morning at 9:25. Prayers? you say. Well, maybe you are right; maybe it should have another name. “Mr. John Smith,” reads the announcement, “has lost an eversharp pencil—it is gold, and has the initials J. S. engraved upon it—I take it that these letters stand for the name, John Smith. The owner will appreciate its return to 25 Georgia.” Five hundred men sit breathless with interest. Later on—“Found: a gold eversharp pencil, with initials J. S. The owner can get it upon application to R. Jones.—I suppose this must be the pencil that Mr. Smith lost, and he may procure it by going to Mr. Jones.” The tenseness is over, the lost is found, the audience relapses to normal again.

Fellows, this is all very interesting, but what about the class meeting that has to be postponed because the bell for the next period is already ringing? What about those that must be cut short, without transacting any business, for the same reason? Did you ever stop to figure out just what a college man’s time is really worth? If he throws away a dollar every time he cuts a class it stands to reason that he loses half that much for equivalent preparation time wasted. And who wants to sit there and listen to it, anyway, when it could be done so much more scientifically and without wasting the time of the unconcerned? We could establish a lost and found bureau at the gym, on the first floor of Chambers, Shearer Hall, or any place where the finder could deposit his find and the loser describe his loss. Anybody would take charge of this a few minutes each day for the generous consideration of all uncalled-for articles. If this seems too hazardous, why not put a public bulletin board in front of Phi Hall or some other public place, and permit yourself to read at leisure such excerpts as are of interest. “Such notices have been read in chapel for over fifty years,” you say. Then for the sake of posterity, let’s venture this rash step.

Ashurbanipal.

STOP! LOOK! LISTEN!
The Atlanta Journal says that Davidson has lost her pep, and that “She ain’t what she used to be.” Have they got the right dope? Davidson’s record so far this season has shown that the team is all right but how about her student body? Let's get out Friday night and show them that they missed their guess. The team leaves Friday for Atlanta for what will probably be her hardest game. Everybody be out and show them we're behind them; kick over the old pepper can and give the Red and Black fighters a real send-off; a little reminder that we’re with them, win or lose. Scatter some of the pep which the student body undoubtedly has and for which the collegeis rightly famous, all over town. Kick the old pepper box sky high and distribute that gentle condiment all the way to Atlanta. Bill.

D SHEARER HALL SCENE OF ROLLICKING PEP MEETING

(Continued from page 1)

used to be,” the pep meeting in Shearer Chapel on last Thursday night was a HOWLING success! It was a howl from beginning to end. Paddles, sticks, instruments (musical or otherwise), benches and voices all “harmonized” to make the proceeding prominent as the peppiest pep meeting pulled lately. Under the able leadership of Cheer Leader Samuel Story and his efficient aides, Walter Knox and J. P. Price, freshmen were taught what their lungs were made for. Beginning with the stirring strains of “O Davidson,” through the list of yells to the popular and pleasing lines of “Hail, hail, the gang's all here,” freshies and upperclassmen acquitted themselves in such a way as to do honor to the inhabitants of the Malay peninsula on seeing their first tub race. The Glee Club was called upon the stage to assist the Wildcat lung-trainers in making yelling machines out of naturally quiet and unassuming freshmen. They aided materially, too, in getting the Wildcat Male Orchestra ready to “Pluck P. C’s Plumes.”

MANY NEW FEATURES

This year “The Davidson College Magazine” is planning many changes and improvements in its makeup. The same general form and design of last year will be used, but many innovations are to be introduced. Bob McLeod says that he intends to enlarge the joke department and transform it into a miniature copy of “Life.” The exchange department, under the direction of Jimmy Sprunt, will adopt a new policy for the coming year. Instead of the monthly criticisms that have heretofore been run, he intends to run a series of the best articles that can be selected from the various contemporary magazines. In this way he should give the very quintessence of Southern collegiate literature. Bill Cooper has several short stories on tap, while R. R. McIlwaine has prepared a number of pithy essays. One unusual feature will be an article in every issue on some modern work of fiction or poem. Distinguished alumni will also contribute to the magazine and furnish students with a clear and concise conception of the bearing one’s college years has on his afterlife. Despite the extensive plans that have been outlined above, the need for new material is felt and it is sincerely hoped that whoever may have any literary talent will aid in making this the biggest and best year the magazine has ever experienced. George Cornelson and Danner Mahood are counting on everyone to lend a helping hand.

WHEN A FELLOW NEEDS A FRIEND

Did you ever walk up to the ticket window of the movie with your best girl and discover that you had left your purse, with all the money you had, on the dresser? Then a fellow needs a friend. Did you ever have a friend ask you to help him select a new hat or new suit? This is a compliment, but at the same time it places you in an embarrassing position. Recently in Charlotte one of my best friends asked me to help him select his new fall hat. Believe me, then I needed a friend. I felt that my chum’s confidence in me was at stake. We walked around to Ed. Mellon’s to look over his line. Imagine the relief when we were taken in hand by a courteous salesman who had made a scientific study of the art of helping a fellow select a hat or new suit. I breathed a sigh of relief. When in need we had found a friend indeed. Everything in the latest styles of hats was displayed while an expert tried one hat after another until he found a hat of just the right hue, the exact size and style to reflect the individual’s personality. You need not look all over town for some friend to help you select your new fall hat. Go to Ed. Mellon’s, where you can get the free advice of an expert on matters of dress, where they have salesmen who do infinitely more than take your money and wrap up what you happened to find in their stock. The styles in hats have changed—are new—are different and improved. The styles are beautiful—far more fascinating and becoming. And to see and to know and to have the most beautiful styled hat shown anywhere, you need only to pay Ed. Mellon’s a visit. “On Trade near Tryon.”—Adv.

D.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HAS FIRST MEETING OF YEAR

(Continued from page 1)

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, O. J. Thies, C. E. Cunningham, J. P. Price, T. M. Lowry, P. H. McAlpine, and M. R. Doubles. In the course of the meeting plans for assisting Freshmen taking chemistry, for securing a speaker for the student body, and for furnishing their hall, were discussed. During the year the fraternity plans to have a man on “the hill” to give a talk to the whole student body, which will be of interest to everyone. L. P. Good, A.B. and M.A., of the class of ’19, and one of the founders of the local chapter, was on the hill, and spoke to the members on the national work of the fraternity, on ways by which more work could be accomplished, and on the future of the organization. Every man in the local chapter is working to make this the banner year for Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

DON’T MISREPRESENT.

By Leonard Smoot.

Oh, it may be that the school is not so pleasing,
It may be that the teachers play the fool;
But please don’t let your conscience get the better,
And go about the town and knock the school.
You know we misrepresent so often
Things we never know have come to pass at all.
Then we cannot take the blackness off the matter;
So why draw away from things and let them fall?
We can do a noble deed by standing under
Something that looks as though it cannot stand.
Then get up and put your shoulder to that something,
For it may be your own dear native land.

D.

RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS OPEN FOR SOUTHERN COLLEGE MEN

Rhodes scholars will be appointed by 32 states, including Tennessee, Virginia, Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, and Mississippi, December 3rd, to take up residence at Oxford University in October, 1922. All applications, testimonials, references, etc., must be in the hands of the respective state committees before October 20th. It is practically useless for undergraduates to apply for appointment. Young alumni under 25 years of age, who are doing graduate or professional study, or are engaged in teaching or are pursuing other intellectual pursuits, are the most likely candidates. Judging from past observation, we should say that an athletic record and gifts for social leadership, along with scholastic and literary attainments, are essential to appointment. The scholarships pay 350 pounds sterling annually and the appointment is for three years. Almost any line of study may be pursued with advantage.—Ex.

D.

Pride always goes before a good old-fashioned licking.

It is not the guns or armament or the more they can pay
It’s the close co-operation that makes them win the day.
It is not the individual or the army as a whole,
But the everlasting teamwork of every bloomin’ soul—Maroon and Gold.

D.

THE GIRL QUESTION.

I call on Ruth because she has a piano with lots of new music which I enjoy playing.
I call on Emily because her father tells me funny stories.
I call on Henrietta because I am kept warm—by the glow of her hearth.
I call on Evelyn because I like the brand of cigarettes her brother smokes.
I call on Flora because I like to hear her dad and mother argue.
I call on Mary because she always asks me to stay for dinner.
I call on Lillian because I love davenports.
But I’m looking for a girl—she doesn’t need to have a piano, a hearth, a davenport, or even a mother and father, as long as she plays papa to me and comforts me while I am longing for my old girl back home—Pennsylvania Punch Bowl.

D.

Northwestern University has passed a rule similar to the one passed at Valparaiso University at the first of the basketball season. The rule prohibits co-eds from having dates at the games. The reason given for the edict was that men are too interested in their guests to cheer for their team—The Torch.

D.

The Columbia University baseball team will play the Waseda University team of Tokyo, Japan, in New York this spring.—Utah Chronicle.