THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 29, 1921.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

Y. M. C. A. SECURES TWO MEN FOR NEXT SUNDAY’S SERVICE

The “Y” has an unusually interesting program booked for Sunday night with two old Davidson men, George Bellingrath and E. H. Hamilton, as speakers. Bellingrath graduated in '18, and was an inter-collegiate debater for two years. Hamilton finished in '17, and is the writer of the words to “O, Davidson.” These men are also bringing some fine stereopticon views which will be shown in connection with their talks. We are very fortunate in getting these men to stop over on their way to the seminary in Richmond, and we feel that they will bring a message that none of us should miss. There will also be a special quartet and instrumental music.

DEPUTATIONS TO BE SENT OUT BY Y IN COMING YEAR

Teams, composed of from three to six men representing the Y. M. C. A. and Davidson College, go out each year to the neighboring prep and high schools to speak to the boys. When boys are in prep or high schools they often do not realize that they are then laying the foundations for a successful college career. These teams endeavor to impress upon the students their responsibility in preparing for their college and future life. 

Men are chosen for the teams who truly represent all the various phases of college life; e.g., a football man, literary society man, debater, etc. Speeches and talks are made by the individuals on the teams on the subject they represent. If the members of a team have good voices they often sing, and lead the audience in song. 

The “Y” last year sent deputations to Winston-Salem, Gastonia, Salisbury, Westminster, Charlotte, and several other places. These teams accomplished a great deal, and the deputations last year may be recorded as a great success. No program has as yet been made out this year, but the deputation committee is busy, and is going to put out some forceful teams. A plan is on foot to make trips to Rock Hill and Fort Mill, S. C., and several nearby cities and prep schools this fall. If you are a speaker, singer or can help in any way in these deputations let the “Y” know about it.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS AND BIBLE CLASSES WELL ATTENDED

The Rural Sunday Schools conducted by the Y. M. C. A. were well attended last Sunday afternoon. The superintendents were on the job at 2:30 o'clock, at their respective charges. There are six schools with leaders and one without. The attendance at the schools shows an average increase over the first Sunday in the year.

School—Supt. Pupils. T’chrs.
Shearer—McIlwaine ------- 32 5
Brawley’s—McKeithen ---- 35 4
Oak Grove—Cooper ------- 14 3
Cornelius—Clarke -------- 30 7
Caldwell—Patterson ------- 40 -
Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson-- 33 4

Another phase of the “Y” work, among the students of Davidson, is the weekly Bible classes. These are held on each floor of the dormitories, 25 classes in all.

COLLEGE MEN HELP PROMOTE WOODROW WILSON FOUNDATION

A committee of college presidents and professors is to be one of the major groups to assist in the work of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation, according to an announcement just given out from the headquarters of that organization at 150 Nassau Street, New York. Hamilton Holt, editor of the Independent, and executive director of the foundation, announced that Stephen P. Duggan, director of the Institute of International Education of New York, is to be chairman of what is to be called the educational committee of the foundation and that Professor Duggan has already outlined his committee and is receiving acceptances for membership on it.

It is the hope of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation to rally to its support the largest possible body of college graduates and undergraduates, says Mr. Holt’s statement. The purpose of the foundation is to honor and perpetuate the ideals of Mr. Wilson, and, to use the words defining its purpose, it is to be “created by public subscription in recognition of the national and international services of Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States, who furthered the cause of human freedom and was instrumental in pointing out effective methods for the co-operation of the liberal forces of mankind throughout the world. The award or awards from the foundation will be made from time to time by a nationally constituted committee to the individual or group that has rendered, within a specified period, meritorious service to democracy, public welfare, liberal thought or peace, through justice.”

It is proposed to give the foundation an endowment of one million dollars or more, to be subscribed as a free-will offering from all parts of the country and from all classes of its people, the sum to be kept permanently intact and the income to be used as an award or awards somewhat like the Nobel Prizes, one of which Mr. Wilson, himself, holds. The money to be raised without the usual campaign or drive methods, since the committee feels that such a means of money raising in this instance will be unnecessary so long as their purpose is only to afford “Americans an opportunity to pay tribute in lasting form to the democratic ideals of another American who served his country and the world, and who achieved greatly and suffered greatly.”

Franklin D. Roosevelt, President Wilson’s assistant Secretary of the Navy, is chairman of the National Committee of the Foundation, and Cleveland H. Dodge is chairman of the executive committee, which is composed of the following members: Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Frank I. Cobb, Stephen P. Duggan, Mrs. J. Malcolm Forbes, Edwin F. Gay, Mrs. J. Borden Harriman, Edward M. House, Frederick Lynch, Henry Morgenthau, Adolph S. Ochs, Frank L. Polk, Miss Virginia Potter, Miss Caroline Ruutz-Rees, Mrs. Charles E. Simonson, Mrs. Charles L. Tiffany, and Mrs. H. Otto Wittpenn. State chairmen are organizing in 36 states, it is announced, and nation-wide organization of all the states will be completed early in September. Great interest in the movement has been manifested by women, Mr. Holt says, and a national woman’s committee is being organized by Miss Virginia Potter.

DO YOU PRACTICE THIS?

Keep clear of personalities in conversation. Talk of things, objects, thoughts. The smallest minds occupy themselves with persons. Do not needlessly report ill of others. As far as possible dwell on the good sides of human beings. There are family boarding places where a constant process of depreciating, assigning motives, and cutting up character goes forward. They are not pleasant places. One whois healthy does not wish to dine at a dissecting table. There is evil enough in man, God knows. But it is not the mission of every young man and woman to detail and report it all. Keep the atmosphere as pure as possible, and fraught with gentleness and charity—Orange and Blue.

Dormitory Floor Attendance
Georgia -- -- -- --1st 17
Georgia -- -- -- --2nd 16
Georgia -- -- -- --3rd 12
Watts -- -- -- --1st 7
Watts -- -- -- --2nd 16
Watts -- -- -- --3rd 12
E. Rumple -- -- -- --1st 9
E. Rumple -- -- -- --2nd 8
E. Rumple -- -- -- --3rd 8
W. Rumple -- -- -- --1st 15
W. Rumple -- -- -- --2nd 12
W. Rumple -- -- -- --3rd 17
N. Chambers -- -- -- --1st 15
N. Chambers -- -- -- --2nd 15
N. Chambers -- -- -- --3rd 19
S. Chambers -- -- -- --1st 15
S. Chambers -- -- -- --2nd 16
S. Chambers -- -- -- --3rd 17
N. Barracks -- -- -- --8
S. Barracks -- -- -- --10
Smiths -- -- -- --10
Louisiana -- -- -- --16
Town (Chapel) -- -- -- --2
Total -- -- -- --272

CAMPUSISMS.
Jack Austin, W. R. Booth, A. M. Martin, J. B. Hall, H. O. Moss, Jas. McCutcheon, and J. S. Johnston were sick in the infirmary last week. B. F. Hastie spent the week-end in Charlotte. Geo. M. Robson, who has been helping with the coaching on the football field, left Thursday to take up his second year at the School of Medicine, Pennsylvania University. Warren H. Sibley, ’12, one of our old football stars, visited the hill last Wednesday to watch the team practice.

In part: “The production of Ford cars and trucks for August again broke all previous high records with the total reaching 117,696. This is the fourth consecutive month in which our output has gone over the 100,000 mark, the total for the four months being 463,074, which has gone a long way in making possible the present reductions.—United Presbyterian.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

A lady reader sends us this morsel of old-time humor:
It happened in grandma’s day that a young lady at a party lost her gloves. The finder was a wealthy old bachelor named Page, and he returned it to her with the following note:
“If from your glove you take the letter ‘g,’ that glove is love and that I have for thee.”
To this the young lady replied:
“If from your name you take the letter ‘P,’ then Page is age and that won't do for me.”—Presbyterian.

WANTED
We want a responsible man as our local agent in every town or city over 500 population, to distribute VIRGINIA COALS from our mines direct to the consumer. This is a splendid opportunity for the right man to establish a good legitimate business. In first letter give bank references and state financial responsibility:
Address Miners, Box 152
Roanoke, Va.

The Ben Vonde Co.
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent:
W. Yonan 12 Chambers

Have your suits, dresses, and good shirts done up right by the Sanitary Laundry and Dry Cleaning Co.
Mooresville, N. C.
SMITH & NEEL, Agents, 26 Chambers

Other Sunday visitors were Mr. Geo. Adams and Miss Elsie Palmer, of Charlotte. Miss Lelia Cox, of Winston-Salem, and Misses Sidney and George Anna Caldwell, of Charlotte, drove through the country for a short visit Sunday evening. Mr. J. A. McMillan, a young business man of Charlotte, spent Saturday night and Sunday visiting friends in the college.

DECLINE IN PRICE OF FORD CARS.
The Ford car has become almost a national institution and doubtless receives more free advertising than any other commodity offered in the markets of the world. Most of us, from the standpoint of financial ability, belong to the Ford crowd. The gleam of hope in the eyes of the man ambitious to own a car shall never die so long as Uncle Henry continues to romp around. One may now buy a runabout for $325 or a touring car for $355. Many of us are patiently waiting until we own a woodshed which may be used for a garage and until the Ford car with all necessary appurtenances is selling for $25 per. About that time loud and joyful noises shall be heard from the editorial offices of the United Presbyterian and if you are sitting on a convenient rail fence in our immediate vicinity you may see us go whizzing by. A statement issued by the Ford concern says in part: “The production of Ford cars and trucks for August again broke all previous high records with the total reaching 117,696. This is the fourth consecutive month in which our output has gone over the 100,000 mark, the total for the four months being 463,074, which has gone a long way in making possible the present reductions.—United Presbyterian.

NOTICE
Beginning Monday, October 3rd we will be Open for Business at the following hours only
2 P.M. TO 8 P.M.
Please do not embarrass us by asking us to sell goods at other hours
the DAVIDSON COLLEGE COMMISSARY

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D. D., President

Union Theological Seminary announces the completion of Schauffler Hall, a model Sunday School building. It is our aim to make this the greatest center in America of expert training in everything that pertains to Sunday Schools and to work among Young People.
CATALOGUE AND INFORMATION ON REQUEST

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.