THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

Student Associations of the Y. M. C. A. are organized in 764 colleges and universities in the country. The Y. W. C. A. has 750 college organizations.

Five women students are learning auto mechanics in the engineering shops of the University of Wisconsin.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

Too Bad. Like Tom Spence of old, we missed the good speech. Didn’t they have a good time! O Boy! And boy, didn’t they enjoy the speeches!

Observation would lead one to believe that the Juniors had adopted for their motto, “Get ‘em young and raise ‘em right.”

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Taking our advice of last week, Pat Miller took a bath, according to reliable authority.

Is That So?
Ed Cunningham: “I would like to have heard those words that he saw.”

Oh Billy Behave!
It was very dark.
Unknown Girl (excitedly)—"Bill Roberts, if you touch me with that moustache, I’ll die!”
Roberts (calmly)—“Prepare to die!”

A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
203 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

So We Noticed.
“Ah,” said a Fresh who had observed the baseball stack at the Commissary, “the Commissary is going batty.”

Oh, Yes!
“It’s not sulfide,” said the prof.; “it’s acide.”

After the Fire at Phi Hall last Friday a meeting of Thanksgiving was held by the society.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations; street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Awgwan.
“Where did my pipe go.”
“I think it went out.”

Class Dismissed.
Student—“Doctor, the building is on fire.”
Prof—“Take five more pages next time.”

They tell us that the German mark is only worth about one cent. What is a pfennig worth? We believe you could have quite a lot of pfennigs and still not have anything.

Man returning to Davidson after absence of fifteen years—“Looks like I had just left yesterday. A few strange faces—that’s all.”

Greetings.
Rough—“How you feel?”
Neck—“Oh, I’m holding my own. How are you?”
Rough—“I’m not holding my own, but I would be if I were with her.”

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Double Guarantee, Free Tuning
Write for a Catalogue, Prices and Terms

Bill Worth says the whole world is akin, for in a Shanghai paper he saw “Bringing Up Father.”

Our compliments to the man who had the idea of those little room-for-two seats among the trees around the Gym.

Reformer—“Young man, you should not smoke. It lessens your mentality, and it will take your wind.”
Young Man—“Humph, I can lick any three men my size in the country!”
Reformer—“Oh, I observe it hasn’t gotten your wind yet.”

Ain’t It the Truth?
Hose on the campus extinguishes fire; hose on Fire distinguishes the campus.

Blissful.
S. A. Burgess—“Say Reveille, what is a tiger?”
Spillman (in dead earnest)—“A female lion.”

“THE WORLD’S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
ANDREW W. POST & CO.
209-211 W. Trade St, Charlotte, N.C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

Coach Moore has been suggested as ‘the dazzling blond’—so has Alex Mitchell. Both wrong. Who is the dazzling blond?

J. M. DUNLAP

According to “Short Change” McCutchen (a self-proclaimed expert) you play craps and shoot poker.

Red Cross to the Rescue.
Soph—“Come here small change and let me spend you.”
Fresh—“Aw, move on war tax, you’re a nuisance.”Bad enough at the Gym Saturday night without the band aggravating it. Visiting High School Hopeful, as he sees illustrious Senior in plug hat—“Get a lasso and let’s catch it.”

Notice. Thursday is clean-up day. Put your trash in front of your house and wagons will take it away.

Bill Finch stood in front of Eliot's all afternoon waiting for a ride. We wonder if the size of a man’s feet has anything to do with making him steady.

Regulations now require that students shall refrain from indulging in music in the dormitories after 8 p.m. Oh music, what crimes are committed in thy name!

Great joy was spread without reserve, The girls had come to town. Oh how attractive they did look Wearing their smiles around.

The Eastman Kodak Co. hasn't got anything on Davidson in the way of exposures. We think wind is preferable to rain, anyhow.

Another Bone. Fresh McClure—“I want some shoe blacking.” Jew—“What kind?” McClure—“Brown.”

Ode to Dough-Balls. There was an old maid from Dakota, Who wanted board money I oda. She thought it no joke, That’s I was blum broke, So into my biscuits went soda. I bit the bread—and that which I uttered Came outer my mouth like it had been buttered, I wish I could tell What she said, —but well, You should have seen how she stuttered.

NOTABLE SAYINGS BY NOTED MEN (Selected by C. W. Jones.)
“The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church” (Tertullian).
“Better wear out than rust out” (Bishop of Cumberland).
“Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty” (John Curran).
“England expects every man to do his duty” (Lord Nelson).
“One example is worth a thousand arguments” (William Gladstone).
“I would rather be right, than President” (Henry Clay).
“God's in his heaven, all’s right with the world" (Browning).
“Be sure you are right, then go ahead” (David Crockett).
“Hold the fort, for I am coming” (General Sherman).
“I propose to fight it out on this line, if it takes all summer” (General Grant).
“Tell your master that if there were as many devils and worms as tiles on its roof, I would enter” (Martin Luther).
“The world is my parish” (John Wesley).
“Words are good when backed up by deeds, and only so” (Theodore Roosevelt).

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO. Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records. We send records on approval. Write for special service plan. Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS. All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable. W. McK. FETZER, - - Chapel Hill, N. C. J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director Davidson, N. C. Write today for catalog.

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready. The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves. THE TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, March 10th, 11th and 12th
OVERTURE - Academy Orchestra Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
ROSS AND FLOSS In a Singing Instrumental Novelty Offering
JOHN O’MALLEY The Irish Thrush
KUTER TRIO Presenting a Variety Act, Harmony Singing, Comedy Talking
“That Rascal” LONEY HASKELL Celebrated Monologue Comedian
Pat Rooney’s Sister, JOSIE ROONEY With Jesse Block and Arthur Franklin in “A Cafe Honeymoon”