Speaking of Sports

Exit Basketball. The 1921 basketball season is history now. The last games of the indoor pastime have been played and eyes are now being turned to baseball.

Wildcats——— Davidson.------- 509 Opponents---.459 Wildcats———

A few interesting facts on the season: The largest score rolled up on the Wildcats was at Virginia. The University lads romped off with a 47 to 23 victory. Davidson's highest game score was against the Charlotte “Y,” when the Trianglers were defeated by a 55 to 11 count. Our game average was 32 points, against an average of 28 for our opponents. Bill Roberts, crack forward, scored over half as many points as our opponents. He wound up the season with 241 to his credit.

Wildcats State Championship. University of North Carolina. Trinity College, Davidson College. Elon College. Wake Forest, Guilford and N. C. State bunched for fifth place.

Wildcats——— This Year's Basketball “D” Men. G. W. Miley, manager. L. B. Schenck, captain and guard. W. W. Roberts, forward. John Schenck, forward. B. W. Romefelt, center. C. M. Davis, center and guard. C. R. Crawford, guard.

Wildcats——— These days find the diamond down at Sprunt Field as lively as an animated ant-hill. The tossers of the old apple are limbering up in grand shape and are gradually working out those kinks developed during the fall and winter.

Wildcats——— Of course predictions are not in order yet but the seven veterans from last year’s team are having their hands full to hold on to their positions. The new material is showing up to a big advantage.

Wildcats——— Coach Hengeveld has the following infielders hopping around the hassocks: Cassell, last year’s third baseman; Ratchford, veteran second sacker; Neal, Barnette, Erwin, M., Hodgins, Richards, and Brown. All are showing flashes of form and a good infield is assured.

Wildcats The battery is well supplied and is the strongest department on the squad. Sim Wrenn and Cop Johnson are taking care of the receiving end, while Captain Bill Miley, Buck Currie and Shepard are going true to form in the box.

Wildcats With only Crawford, of last season, in the outfield, this is the place where Dutch’s attention is directed. Shepard will probably alternate in the outfield when not twirling, as last year. Other aspirants include Miley, G., Brown, Freeman, and Erwin, L.

Wildcats On the cinder path, things are moving right along, and “Wooley” has his men swinging into mid-season gait in great style. The coming week will find these

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921

BASKETBALL TEAM. (Continued from page 1)

cat” spirit was instilled into the team and at the beginning of the second half showed flashes of their regular form and tied the score in short order. It was either game, first one scoring and then the other. By close guarding the Wofford team was prevented from scoring in the last few minutes and Davidson wound up the collegiate season with a victory. Hecklin and Lindsey did the best work for Wofford, each collecting 14 points. Hecklin was especially conspicuous for his floor work; one time dribbling nearly the full length of the floor and caging it. All of the Presbyterian’s opponents were proficient in throwing the ball through the ring from near the center of the floor, only a few of their points being made by short shots. Roberts and Crawford were the mainstays of the offensive, each ranging the floor and shooting many difficult shots. Crawford made several pretty goals during the last half that helped materially in the total score.

CHARLOTTE HIGH SCHOOL WINS FROM BELMONT IN SLOW CONTEST

Elimination Game for State Championship Played on Davidson Court. 36-17 in favor of Charlotte. That was the answer to the question as to which had the best quintet, Belmont or Charlotte. Both squads arrived on the “Hill” early Friday afternoon accompanied by hordes of rooters, male and female, the element of “fire” seemingly in the majority. And who says all the good-looking girls come from California? It’s a sure bet he wasn’t at the game Friday. P. C. Henderson announced before the game that it was a sure victory for Charlotte, and for once “P. C.” was right. From the initial tossup the conflict was all in favor of the lads from the “Queen City;” McMillan, who was the star of the opening period, shooting four goals in rapid succession. It was not Charlotte’s without a fight though, for “Prep” Hall’s proteges had lots of “pep” and did not die without a struggle. The first half ended 20-9 in favor of the five from the “Center of the Carolinas.” The second stanza was a walkaway for Charlotte except for a few minutes when Belmont displayed a bit of class. The Charlotte team made several substitutions in this half. The final score was 36-17.

The victory was Schenck, J. (0) Hecklin (14) Davis (8) Alverson Dillingham (6) Schenck, L. Dillingham (6) The game, in itself rather rough and slow, was enlivened throughout by the rooting from the sidelines. The line-up: Charlotte (36) Crawford (11) Belmont (17) Referee: Faul, Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

Winston “Y” Game. The Davidson Varsity five successfully completed their basketball season last Friday night by defeating the fast Winston “Y” team by a score of 34 to 25 on the collegians' court. The Wildcats started strong when Crawford turned the ball loose for two clean shots and succeeded in netting four points before the “Y” bunch could get started. The Twin City basketers soon overcame this lead by good passing and accurate shots and the remainder of the first period proved to be a healthy tussle for the lead, neither side being able to better the other by very many points.

McMillan (16) Substitutions: Eddy (2) for Milstead; Carmichael for Howell; Stowe for Ellingham. Referee: Marsh.

WILDKITTENS WIN EASY VICTORY FROM MOORESVILLE HIGH

The Wildkittens added another victory to their growing string last week when they romped over Mooresville Hi to the merry tune of 65-20. The game was played on Mooresville’s floor and it was the first defeat they have suffered there this year. The Kittens had things their own way from the beginning and the result of the contest was never in doubt. The first half was marked by good team work by both clubs and it was only strong offensive play that Davidson succeeded in leading at the end of this period by a score of 16-14. The Red and Black machine came back strong in the second half and by quick passing and fast team work succeeded in overcoming their opponents' defensive work and placed another victory to their credit by a final score of 34-25. The final outcome of the game was not sure until the last whistle, both teams showing speed and good head work throughout the game. Crawford was the mainstay of the Wildcats, covering the floor with good form and shooting long shots with great accuracy.

The Kittens were used to romping around a large floor and during the first half Ormond and McDonald couldn't get away from their guards. Mauze was the star point getter for the Presbyterians in this half, collecting 16 out of their 24 points. In the second half the forwards broke away and looped the ball through the basket at will. Ormond ran wild in the second half and showed the best form of the season. In this half he succeeded in gathering 18 points. Mauze and McDonald were right behind him with 18 and 16 points respectively. Price and King kept the Mooresville score down. The playing of Schenck at guard and Davis at center is also worthy of note. For the “Trianglars” Martin played a good game in netting 11 points on the offensive and on the defensive in intercepting passes.

DAVIDSON COMES THIRD. THE PARABLE OF THE SHEEP. (Continued from page 1)Page 1) While on the Virginia trip, greatly handicapped Romeo, but he put up a game fight regardless. Nappy Davis, the first freshman to make his letter in years, donated 24 points. Nappy alternated at guard and center and showed up to a big advantage in both positions. Louis Schenck held down the other guard position. Louis continued to play his same old airtight defensive game and both as a player and captain, used good common judgment in handling the team. Total summary of points scored: Roberts, forward, 241. J. Schenck, forward, 104. Crawford, guard, 80. Romefelt, center, 50. Davis, center, 24. Ormand, sub, 4. Shepherd, sub, 4. McConnell, sub, 2. Total, 509.

The race for state championship honors in basketball among the seven colleges this year has proven very close and interesting. The two chief contenders have been the University and Trinity. After eliminating the other five colleges by undisputable victories, these two locked horns twice, each winning one game. The general sentiment throws the weight on the side of the University, and these two comparative scores probably indicate their superiority: University 23, Trinity 25. University 41, Trinity 19.

Third place goes to Davidson, undisputed by reason of their advantage over Elon of 2 points in two games; over Guilford of 35 points in two games; over N. C. State of 21 points in two games; and over Wake Forest, although this team was not played, by reason of Elon’s clearly outranking Wake Forest. Fourth place probably falls to Elon, who in two games with Wake Forest, have a two-point advantage; over Guilford by a 33 to 14 victory and over N. C. State by a 20 to 12 victory. The other three teams seem closely bunched, with the odds favoring Wake Forest who decisively defeated Guilford by a 41 to 14 count, and who split two games with N. C. State, each contest ending in a 20 to 10 score. N. C. State, by reason of these two last mentioned scores, cannot be eliminated, and seems to share honors with Wake Forest. But Guilford, even though defeated by Wake Forest in a 41 to 14 contest, clearly outranked N. C. State by reason of two victories over the Technicians. So there you are—figure it out to your best advantage.

The Honor System continues to be the subject of discussion in American colleges. It has recently been adopted in the Military Department of Colorado Agricultural College by the students of Ohio State University, Gustavus-Adolphus College, Minnesota, and Valparaiso University, Indiana. Other student bodies having the same under consideration are Bethany College, West Virginia, Coe College, Iowa, University of Michigan, and Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young have returned home after a most delightful visit to New Orleans.

A certain shepherd had seventy sheep. And he loved them well, and cared for them. And their every want was his constant care. Now five were wise, and five were foolish, and they which were neither were normal sheep. And the foolish said unto their brethren, He whom thou callest shepherd, the same is unjust. For when we might feed where we would, he curbeth us: yea, he curbeth our desire. The pasture where he maketh us feed is old; and the grass is no longer sweet. Would that we might be rid of this hard master!

Now, by chance, the fold where the sheep were was nigh unto the edge of a precipice. And the precipice was a hundred cubits high. And below was the sea. And the color of the sea was like unto that of tender grass in the springtime. Now when the time of shearing was come, behold, the shepherd rose up early in the morning. And when he had eaten and drunk, he took his shears in his hand, and came nigh unto the fold where his sheep were. And the sheep lifted up their eyes and beheld the shepherd while he was yet a great way off. Then the foolish said unto them that were with them, Lo! here cometh that one to torment us. Verily he will kill our joy. See ye through this chink in the wall how fresh is the grass below. Haste! Let us betake ourselves thither while he is yet afar off. And when they had said this, the foolish ones girt their loins, and did leap the wall which was about the fold. Then when they which were wise did see these things, they lifted their voices, saying, 'Tis not good that we should do this thing. For the shepherd cometh not to torment us, but to do us good. And yon grass is not what it seems. But we are sheep, and must walk as our fathers have walked before us. And, girding themselves, they leapt the wall. And the fish of the sea did make merry with their flesh, and sport with their carcasses. Then, when the shepherd was come, he diligently searched for his flock. But when he found it not, he sent out absence cards. —CYCLOPS.

“Why do you turn out for every road hog that comes along?” said the missus, rather crossly. “The right of way is ours, isn’t it?” “Oh, undoubtedly!” answered he, calmly. “As for our turning out, the reason is plainly suggested in this epitaph which appeared in a newspaper recently: “Here lies the body of William Jay Who died maintaining his right of way; He was right, dead right, as he sped along, But he’s just as dead as if he’d been wrong.”—Boston Transcript.

Foretaste. “Yes, my doctor has put me on a diet. It’s just an hour until my dinner time and I’m as hungry as a wolf.” “How long have you been on a diet?” “I start with my next meal."—Birmingham Age-Herald.

The latest on C. J. is that while up with an airman he tried to Jew him down.

“SNUB NOT.” “SAY IT WITH FLOWERS.” Clay at forward scored eight points and Alten played a fast game at center.

If you wish to be thoroughly hated, if you wish to be remembered for evil, if you wish to be a social blight, if you wish to drive from you all confidence, all affection, all sympathy, if you wish to lose the key to the hearts of others, then cultivate the art of snubbing. If you wish to get confidence and to give confidence, if you desire that some few should affectionately remember you when you are gone, if you wish to be delivered from the curse of a solitary existence—Snub not.—Claudius Clear, in the British Weekly.

If you consider her a wise girl, say it with sage. If you think her cold, say it with snowdrops and freesias. If you desire to marry her, say it with a poppy. If you know she has a sweet tooth, say it with candytuft. If she impresses you as a sad girl, say it with rue. If she is of a happy, joyous nature, say it with gladioli. If she seems a prunes-and-prisms sort of girl, say it with primula.

Summary: Davidson (34) Winston “Y” (25) Roberts (12) .......... Clay (8) L. F. Schenck, J. (2) ........ Terrell (2) R. F. Davis (8) .......... Allen (4) C. Schenck, L. .......... Martin (11) L. G. Crawford (12) .......... Jones R. G. No substitutions. Referee: Chalmers (Davidson).

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. Our gloves run from $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to $3.50 each. Give us your order. CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN 5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon) Phone 8248