THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 15, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

LARGE FOOTBALL SQUAD BEGINS EARLY PRACTICE

The Davidson football squad began practice a week or two earlier this year than ever before. A few of the
old letter men came back almost a month before the opening of school, and by the 25th of August, the
formal opening of practice, nearly three teams were on hand. The first Freshman on hand was Hendricks, the star Greensboro
quarterback. He was followed a few days later by the equally famous Fresh Hay, from a great metropolis in South
Carolina.

Monday, August 29th, will go down in the annals of Davidson football as the great “monkey day,” for on that
eventful afternoon the entire squad, from the mighty varsity center Brice down to the humblest Fresh lineman, saw great droves
of these alluring quadrupeds swarming all over the field. Indeed, Tuesday found the squad so exhausted that there were not
quite two full teams able to practice, and a meeting of the cripples had to be called that night for
purposes of classification and mass treatment. The next day practice was called almost an hour later in the afternoon and
the supper hour was changed, to the great satisfaction of all concerned.

A great deal of theoretical work was taken up in the morning meetings of the squad. Books by prominent football
coaches were studied and plays were worked out on the blackboard. The rule book was studied rule by rule, and
at the end of the period a test was given on it. Several members of the squad pulled down a
flat 100. Fresh Boggs’ grade has not been released for publication.

By the opening of school the squad had improved markedly and almost all the men were in good condition. The
first and the only serious casualty among the Freshmen was Fresh Hunt's shoulder. LaFar’s knee and Clarke’s leg are the
most serious weaknesses now troubling the varsity. Other prominent cripples have been Sorrels, Bradley, Richards, Brown, McLaurin, and Mauze. Almost
all of them, however, are in condition now.

R. O. T. C. NEWS NOTES

The R. O. T. C. executives are to be congratulated upon the efficiency with which they have handled the inevitable
difficulties of a new year. Major Hearn, after a summer at Camp Knox, has organized the R. O. T. C.
on a new plan this year. The officers and non-commissioned officers are to be appointed for merit rather than by
class. The battalion is to be formed by classes two days out of the week and by companies on one
day. There will be four companies again this year.

The uniforms and equipment have already been issued to the upper classmen and are to be issued to the Freshmen
this week. Shoes will not be issued this year, but otherwise the uniform will be the same as heretofore. The
theoretical work has also begun. Most of the classes are to be held in the Concord Street building. Major Hearn
is to instruct the Seniors and Juniors, Captain Ellis will have the Sophomores, and Captain Weatherby the Freshmen.

The Band, too, has begun practice under Capt. G. N. Neel. A good number of new men are musically inclined
and a good Band is to be expected.

REPORTS PROMISE CLOSE GAME WITH VIRGINIANS

With the game between the Wildcats and the boys from the Old Dominion just a little over a week away,
news comes from their camp that a hard game is expected. Virginia has a squad of about 25 men working
out under the direction of Coach Warren. Included in this squad are eight letter men, and several likely looking Freshmen
from last year’s Freshman team. Virginia is sure to have a strong team, for, with eight letter men, last year’s
substitutes, and the Freshmen of last year they have an abundance of material to choose from. Virginia’s line should be
the strongest in a number of years. Former Captain Michie, an end, has returned and with five of last year's
line again striving for places the outlook for a stone wall is good. Three back-field letter men are getting back
into condition and the substitutes and Freshmen are staging one grand scrap for the fourth back-field position.

GLEE CLUB PREPARES FOR BEST YEAR IN ITS HISTORY

The prospects for the Glee Club this year seem to be very good at present. Try-outs were held in Shearer
Hall on last Friday night and a large number of new men were on hand. There are some good voices
among the new men, especially first tenors. The Glee Club this year will feel greatly the loss...of Thompson and Law,
as it will be difficult to find men to take their places, but with the talent from the Fresh class,
it is to be hoped that a first-class organization can be worked out under the competent leadership of Pat McGeachy.

The band this year feels the loss of their leader D. R. Freeman, ’21, and is finding it hard to
secure a director. One or two practices have been held which have brought to light some talent from the new
men. G. N. Neel is acting as leader for the present and is very enthusiastic over the prospects for the
band during the coming year.

The entire personnel of the band wish to express their regret that George Love and Dope Walker are not back
this year. These two men did splendid work with the band last year and their inability to return to college
is a great disappointment to the entire student body.

TOWN NEWS

Misses Mary Dudley Brown and Marie Graff of Salisbury were the guests of Mrs. A. Currie Monday, being present for
the Freshmen reception.

Miss Nettie Thomas spent the weekend as the guest of Mrs. Paisley.

Miss Frances Williamson, of Fayetteville, and Miss Mary Greer, of Greenwood, S. C., have been the guests of Dr. and
Mrs. Martin.

Misses Eloise Martin and Maioline Martin will enter Smith College this year.

Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Moore and family, who occupied the Irwin home last year, have returned to Japan.

Miss Mary Richards will spend the winter in Davidson.

Miss Nancy Grey is leaving Friday for Winthrop College.

Miss Mildred Hobbs has left for G. C. W., Greensboro, where she will attend school this year.

"MADE IN CAROLINA"

The student body will be interested to know that Miss Janie Matthews and Miss Lottie Hart are running a modern
cafeteria known as The Pollyanna, located at the New Central Hotel, second floor. Miss Janie Matthews is a sister of
Dr. Matthews and Mr. Frank Matthews, manager of Belks, both of Charlotte. Henry and Oliver, our fellow students, are also
her brothers. Miss Lottie Hart is a sister of “Ophelia” Hart, ’19, former editor of D. C. Magazine, who was
recently elected assistant Professor of Physics of the Mississippi A. & M. College. The Cafeteria is open from 7 a.m.
to 8 p.m. every day. Many of the Davidson alumni are taking their meals there regularly, and members of the
present student body will have pleasant memories of a visit at The Pollyanna Cafeteria.

THEY NEVER COME BACK

Exiled kings never return. Mr. Hohenzollern is the fourth German emperor to be dethroned in several centuries past. They were
rich and powerful, but their influence ended once they left the throne. A list of scores of dethroned monarchs shows
that the chances of returning to power is about one in a hundred. Once the tinsel which bedecks royalty has
been torn away, its power disappears.—Boy’s Life.

For Sale Cheap

One six-hole Steel Range, excellent condition.
Also one set of Shelves.

Mrs. T. W. LINGLE, Davidson

Visit Our Fountain

All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men.
Agents for Nunnally, Hollingsworth, and Mary Garden Candies.

Tryon Drug Co., 200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Traymore Tailoring Co. has it. Come and see.

Sim Gloves

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to your
order.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

This Space Reserved for Wrigley Chewing Gum Co.
