4 The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: P. PRICE
Forum Editor: G. GIBBLES
Managing Editor: S. CURRY
Campus Editor: H. H. SMITH
Y. M. C. A. Editor: R. F. DAVIDSON
Assignment Editor: J. SPRUNT
Social Editor: J. COOPER
Exchange Editor: J. I. McKEITHEN

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
E. FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, E. H. BRADFORD, W. GRACY, J. S. MAUZE, G. W. BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, W. P. BROWN, J. C. TULLER, C. D. COX, W. JONES, D. B. WALTHALL, L. D. ELKINS, W. I. KNOX, A. C. ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, C. F. WILDMAN

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. WOOL Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK, and W. S. SHEPARD Assistant Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
C. D. TULLER, S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Who says the fighting spirit of the Wildcats is dead?

“A good character is worth more than a good bank account.”

“Excuses are the tools with which incompetents build for themselves great monuments of nothing.”

Are you satisfied with The Davidsonian as your college paper? If not, come to us and tell us how it can be improved. The staff is always ready for helpful suggestions.

Now that every student is to be held responsible for all damage to his own room, we may expect to see a lessening in the destruction of college property.

Let’s make Saturday Davidson College Day in Winston-Salem.

THE MOVIES.

For the past two and a half years, the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. has been providing the students with a weekly moving picture show. Through the efficiency of those in charge of these pictures, the quality of the productions shown has been steadily improved until now it is possible for us to see the latest and best films at smaller prices than theatre-goers in Charlotte pay to see them. These entertainments have come to hold an important place in the program of the week for almost every student, and there are few who would be willing to dispense with them as a means of recreation. In spite of this fact, however, we have not given any sufficient proofs of our appreciation of the pains taken to amuse us. The only place available for the presentation of the silent drama at Davidson is the floor of the gymnasium. This space has been pressed into service through the use of the movable benches with which we are all familiar, and at the risk of seriously damaging the basketball court. It would seem that the least the students could do to show their appreciation of the movies would be to exercise a little care not to injure the floor, but the thought of any responsibility on our part seems to be entirely lacking. In spite of frequent requests to refrain from these actions, there are many who persist in smoking and dropping the stubs during shows, throwing chewing gum on the floor, or dragging the benches about instead of lifting them. A little examination of the basketball court in daylight will show the effects of all these abuses. Unless we take care of the floor now, it will not be worth our trouble much longer. Let us exercise a little more care in this particular.

ARMISTICE DAY.

Tomorrow marks the coming of the third anniversary of a day which probably brought more general rejoicing to the human race than any which had gone before it. Three years have passed since the cessation of hostilities in the bloodiest war of human history, and during that period most of the world has been blessed with peace. America has been too quick to forget the sacrifices which her young men were called on to make in this struggle, and the thousands who laid down their lives in France. It is only fitting that tomorrow should be set aside for a celebration which shall be a real tribute to the memory of these heroic soldiers. Davidson is to have her part in the celebration of the day and preparations have been made for holding appropriate exercises. Whether this attempt to observe the day with proper respect is to be successful or not depends only on us. If we perform our part of its duties in the attitude of doing something which is forced upon us, we had much better be engaged in our regular studies. If, however, we discharge them in a real spirit of patriotism, the time and effort expended will be well worth while. Surely we should adopt the latter and make this attempt to celebrate Armistice Day a complete success.

I stood upon “A” Mountain,
And looked down on it, plain;
I saw a lot o’ green heads
That looked like waving grain.
I took another look,
I thought it must be grass;
But goodness! to my horror,
It was the Freshman Class!
—Tiny, the Fresh.

The Harvard Glee Club has just returned from a successful tour of France and Italy, this being the first time a trip of this kind has been made by an American college chorus and the first time an official invitation has been tendered by European governments and expenses subsidized by them to such an organization.

ATHLETIC GROUNDS PREPARED FOR USE OF THE CO-EDS.

The women students of Trinity, besides having full dormitory facilities, will have athletic grounds for their exclusive use, thus relieving the congestion which is noticeable on the tennis courts every day. Two tennis courts and a volleyball court have already been laid off and will be constructed immediately. The tennis courts will be adaptable to volleyball. Besides this, the girls are considering the building of a baseball diamond.
—Trinity Chronicle.

GOING UP.

An Englishman went to a baseball game, and both sides made one run each during the first inning. The Englishman watched the scoreboard intently, as each team failed to make a run inning after inning. The game had gone sixteen innings, and the figure one and the zeroes following had left an impression on the mind of the Englishman. As he went down the street after the game, a small boy stopped him and asked what the score was. “Oh,” said the Englishman. “I lost all track of the game; it is way up in the millions.”
—The Argonaut.

ARMISTICE DAY PROGRAM.

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS UNIT.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

Where—Sprunt Athletic Field.
When—2:45 p.m.
What—
1. March of Battalion on the Field and Presentation of the Battalion to Battalion Sponsor. Major Phillips, commanding, Miss Steel, Sponsor—Goddess of America.
2. Stunt by Company “A.”—Captain Richards, commanding. Miss Richards, Sponsor—Goddess of North Carolina.
3. Stunt by Company “B.”—Captain Lowry, commanding. Miss Gibbs, Sponsor—Goddess of the Harvest.
4. Stunt by Company “C.”—Captain McIlwaine, commanding. Miss Finlayson, Sponsor—Goddess of Autumn.
5. Stunt by Company “D.”—Captain Miller, commanding. Miss Martin, Sponsor—Goddess of Dixie.
6. Announcement of the decision of the judges.—Dr. Fraser Hood.
7. Presentation of Honor Flag to winner.—Mr. F. L. Jackson.
8. Remarks—Courtesy to the Flag.—Dr. J. W. McConnell.
9. Retreat and Battalion Parade—Major Phillips, commanding.

A compulsory education law has been passed in Peru. The law makes instruction obligatory for boys and girls between the ages of six and 14 years. Parents and guardians are obliged to prove that minor children in their charge have received the instruction proper to their ages in authorized public or private schools. Government schools will give free instruction, including the necessary supplies.j but some of our friends paid us a call—are lacking in another; also the excuse books, etc. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921. Open Forum STEALING TIME. Who does not know some member of the “Idle Family.” Idleness is a sly thief; she snatches a minute here and a few minutes there; she clips a quarter of an hour from our math lesson, or our other college duties. We determine every day when we get shot on a review or daily recitation that she shall have none of that night, but we have to confess, her petty thefts with chagrin, not always because we did not want to study, and the night was gone before we were aware of the fact. In order that all might have sufficient time for study at night it would be wise to set aside the hours from eight to eleven entirely for study. There are thousands of honest students who would not dare take a penny from a fellow student, but would not hesitate to drop in his room and steal an hour of his time, which no money can replace. He who steals the time of a student trespasses on the college’s honor. Vela ke D. LET’S BE A LITTLE ENGLISH. Anyone who has been following the class basketball games could not but notice the amount of fouling that has been done. Not that it has been called by the referee every time, but it was certainly evident to those on the sidelines. Of course this can be partially excused by the fact that these are really pre-season games, that the fellows haven’t gotten into shape and that they have to make up in one way what they is presented that the class games are supposed to be more or less rough, for this will help stir up pep. Nobody likes a hard-fought game better than we do, but there is no one who hates to see all the pushing, holding, and hacking, worse than we do. Everyone should work toward the goal of having class basketball as hard-fought and as cleanly played as possible. Referees, players, and rooters should all taboo the man who tries to run in any dirty stuff. An article has come out in the Outlook which should be read by every sport-lover. There is not enough space to print the whole article, but an extract will suffice to show the tenor of it: “Attention has frequently been called to the contrast between the objective of the average American and his English cousin in athletic contests. The American it is said plays to win; the Englishman for the fine points of the game. Of course we typical Americans will deny with typical American vigor any implication that we should resort to dishonesty to win, but it must be manifest on reflection that just as surely as we go into the game with winning as our objective, just as surely as student bodies and townsfolks are insistent upon our winning, just as surely as our rooters, and, above all, our players have money up on the outcome of the game, there is grave danger of our falling into methods of playing that hardly measure up to the highest ethical standards. “Let us not ask our American athlete to turn English over night, but they are indeed a provincial people who cannot learn some profitable lessons from their neighbors, and we Americans surely need to learn and then to insist that to play a fine game and to do one’s honest best in any kind of contest means far more than being able to hang up the larger figures on the score board. Students who are proved guilty of slugging or other unsportsmanlike conduct, instead of being given ovations by their supporters must have made manifest to them the disapproval of anything but the cleanest kind of playing and must be subjected upon repetition of the offense to drastic punishment, even to removal from all athletic contests.” Can we not afford to be a little English in class basketball as well as in all other forms of athletics? A Fan. SURPRISE HALLOWE’EN PARTY GIVEN BOYS BY MRS. GIBBS A Hallowe'en supper at Mrs. Gibbs’ October 31st was one of the big surprises of the year. When the boys started into the dining room, everything was dark and a cry for lights was the first thing to be thought of by many of us. But after going in, it was seen that each table had in its center a pumpkin and candle and was decorated in a way fitting to the occasion. The waiters were dressed as witches and every plate had a witch place card. From the chandelier were yellow and black streamers and the same effect was carried out on the tables. Even the supper carried out the color scheme with yellow salad and fruits and chocolate cake. After the boys had been seated and realized the meaning of the affair, a yell was given for Mrs. Gibbs before anyone started his meal. Virtually everything from soup to nuts was served and it is needless to say that everyone left feeling that he had helped to dispose of the best meal ever served to Davidson students. STUDENTS AND TOWNSPEOPLE SEE “CITY OF SILENT MEN.” Fresh from the victory over the Wofford team by the “Red and Black” machine, a large part of the student body crowded into the gym last Saturday night to witness the weekly movie. After singing “O Davidson,” the lights were turned off and the picture, “The City of Silent Men,” was begun. Under the direction of Thomas Forman, Thomas Meighan and his assistant, Lois Wilson, were starred. Mother love is portrayed throughout the entire picture in a very effective way. Meighan, a poor mechanic, lives in a small country town with his aged mother; upon going to the city to seek his fortune he falls into the hands of unprincipled men and is unjustly accused of murder. Having no means of proving his innocence, he is sentenced to life imprisonment. His mother, after hearing of her son’s sad plight, becomes heartbroken, and is taken dangerously ill. Meighan now decides to attempt an escape from Sing Sing to try to get to his dying mother. Successful in his escape, he arrives at home just in time for the funeral, but is forced to remain in the woods as a fugitive. In time Meighan becomes manager of a large woolen mill, marries the daughter of the president of the company, and is then made vice-president. Detectives, who have trailed and located him, seeing his condition, decide to let him off. However, shortly afterward the real murderer is found through the activity of Meighan’s former cell-mate. Meighan is pardoned by the governor, and lives a straight life, happy in his freedom. The music furnished by the orchestra was very good, and was thoroughly enjoyed by all. This, with the entertainment offered by the pictures, made the program one of the best of the season. CHANGES IN POINT SYSTEM BEING MADE BY STUDENTS The student body recently voted to make several changes in the point system now in force at Davidson, a system originally adopted in order to prevent a small group of men from holding all the offices at Davidson. Under this system one man could hold only ten points at one time. In the past a man was allowed to hold two five-point offices at the same time, but one of the new rulings now makes that impossible. With the above-mentioned changes the grading of the various offices is now as follows: Student Body—President, 5; vice-president, 1; secretary and treasurer, 1; Student Council, 1. Athletic Association—President, 5; vice-president, 1; treasurer, 4. Athletics—Football, baseball and basketball: captain, 1; manager, 5; assistant manager, 2. Track: Captain, 1; manager, 3. Tennis: Manager, 2. Y. M. C. A.—President, 5; cabinet, 1. Davidsonian—Editor, 5; business manager, 4; managing editor, 5; assignment editor, 3; circulation manager, 3; staff, 2. Annual—Editor, 5; manager, 5; assistant manager, 2; staff, 2. Magazine—Editor, 4; manager, 3; staff, 2. Literary Society—President, 1; secretary, 1; treasurer, 2; reviewer, 1; marshal, 1; chief marshal, 2. Class—President, 1; historian, 1. Debating Council—Chairman, 2; member, 1.