THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 16, 1921.

Alumni News

DAVIDSON SUFFERS LOSS IN DEATH OF DR. WILSON JAMES McKAY

Prominent Minister of S. C. Passes Away After Long Service at Davidson College.

Rev. John D. Gillespie, '10, has moved from Effingham, S. C., to Montreat, N. C., on account of his health.

Rev. Wm. C. Rourk, '16, has changed his residence from Charlotte to Ellerbe, N. C.

Rev. D. C. Young, '15, is now in Charlotte.

Wilson James McKay, '68, was born in Summerville, South Carolina, in 1848. He entered Davidson at an early age and
made a brilliant record as a student here. He was a member of the Phi Society and won a Junior
Rep. Debater’s Medal, and was the valedictorian in his senior year. After leaving Davidson, Dr. McKay entered the Columbia Theological
Seminary from which he graduated in 1873. As a preacher, he was sound, scholarly, and satisfactory. He held the pastorate
in a number of places. Dr. Thornton Whaling pays him the following tribute:

“Perhaps his chief work was the great contribution which he made as an administrator and executive on the boards of
two of our chief educational institutions. For a long period, he was on the board of trustees and executive committee
of Davidson College, and it is believed that the splendid and growing success of that noble school owes much to
the wisdom, foresight, and fine grasp of the needed policies for the day which this honored brother gave without stint
to this school of which he was an alumnus. He rendered the same kind of service to Columbia Theological Seminary
of which he was also an alumnus and of whose board he was a member for many years. No member
of this board commanded greater confidence and influence during the entire period of his service upon it.”

“Back of all this service was the Christian character of this beloved brother. His strong faith in his God and
Savior, his genuine love for the Christian brotherhood, and the unfailing hope which nothing could obscure made him a marked
Christian saint and minister.”

Dr. McKay died at his home in Sumter, S. C. on December 10, 1920. In him, Davidson lost a loyal
friend and a ready helper.

Memorial Resolution to Rev. W. J. McKay, D.D.

This page of the minute book of the faculty of Davidson College is by order of the faculty affectionately dedicated
to the memory of W. J. McKay, D.D., of Sumter, S. C., a trustee of this college for 46 years.
Dr. McKay was elected by the Harmony Presbytery in 1875 as its first representative on the board of trustees and
served continuously as the representative of this Presbytery to the day of his death, December 10, 1920. He was president
of the board of trustees and chairman of the executive committee from 1894-1905 inclusive, and secretary of the board from
1905 to his death. His service on the board was for a longer time than that of any other member
of whom we know except that of his predecessor in the secretaryship, Rev. Jethro Rumple, D.D., whose service was longer
by only one year.

Dr. McKay's interest in the college which was his Alma Mater remained unabated through this long service. Untiring in his
zeal and unfailing in his loyalty, he rendered his Church a great and splendid service in his work for the
college. Our gratitude goes out to the kindly Providence who spared His servant to us for so long a period
of most useful and helpful service. It is ordered that a copy of this resolution be sent to his family
for whose comfort and consolation we offer our prayers in this their time of bereavement.

(Signed) J. M. McConnell, Secretary.

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI.

February 20-25There will be held at Richmond, Va., a “School of Methods.” Among the faculty are found two Davidson alumni:
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, ’92, will teach a course on “The Social Teachings of the Bible.” Rev. Edward Mack, '86,
will give a course on “The Teaching Values of the Old Testament.”

A new book, “Poe, How to Know Him,” by Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, ‘84, has just been received from the
press. Dr. Smith is a professor of English at the U.S. Naval Academy.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED

E. A. Woods, ‘19, is teaching in the Greensboro High School.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 25-W
CORNELIUS, N.C.

The many friends of R. R. Clark, '18, will be concerned to know that he has suffered a severe attack
of pneumonia, following a serious operation undergone about two weeks ago. The last report from him is altogether favorable and
hopes for his rapid recovery are entertained.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district

Mr. Edwin P. Lore, ex-'13, of Smithfield, N.C., was married at Accomac, Va., to Miss Ruth Kelly, of Onancock, Va.,
on December 29, 1920.

SOCIETY PROGRAMS
Eus—Feb. 19, 1921.
“Resolved, That North Carolina should tax vacant lots and unimproved country land at their full value.”

The wedding of Malcolm Rumple, ex-'53, now of Columbus, Ohio, representing the Chemical Construction Company of Charlotte, to Miss Jessie
Isabel Irwin of that city was celebrated on February 3rd.

Affirmative:
Wallace H. Moore
J. D. McCluer
W. E. Beck
John P. Williams, '16, is now superintendent of the Montreat Normal School.

Rev. F. A. Barnes, ‘95, was installed as pastor of Gilwood Church last Sunday. Rev. Barnes is now living at
Davidson.

The church papers carry the news that Jamie Fowle, ‘18, will be a member of a quartette at the Laymen’s
Missionary Convention at Staunton, Va.

E. C. Minter, ex-’24, has left college and is now in Norfolk, Va.

You tell ’em, Camels, you've got the quality!

You get to smoking Camels because you appreciate their fine, refreshing flavor! And, you like them better all the time
because they never tire your taste! Camels quality makes Camels so appetizing, so continuously delightful. And, Camels expert blend of
choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos gives them that wonderful mellow mildness! And, man alive, how you will prefer Camels
to either kind of tobacco smoked straight! You have only to compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at
any price to know personally that Camels are a revelation! When you flash a deck of Camels you tell the
world you’re smoke-wise!

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse
