CLASS FOOTBALL PRACTICE BEGINS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 14, 1921. No. 14

Basketball Practice Begins for 1921 Season

Three-Letter Men Form Nucleus for This Year's Team—First Game Jan. 27

Upon the reopening of the colleges of the country after the Christmas holidays, the eyes of sportdom are turned upon
the national indoor pastime. Even so, the interests of the student body are beginning to be hinged upon the 1921
basketball team and its success. There will be quite a few big games on the hill this winter with other
colleges and universities which will afford all the thrills that the game is capable of producing.

Since college opened last September, the varsity men who returned have been reduced in number from four to three. The
regulars left at the present are Captain Lewis Schenck, Bill Roberts, and Birchie Romefelt, who will form the nucleus about
which will be formed the hopes and aspirations of a conquering Wildcat basketball team. Practice has been under way since
before the holidays started, but things settled down in grim earnest after the return last week. Every night in the
gymnasium, the old and new exert their best efforts to win a place among the select five who will represent
the college. The first game will not be played until the last of this month and in the meantime, a
suitable quint will be formed to meet the best that the South can boast.

Last year, the team was without the services of Captain Schenck most of the season as his knee was injured
in the first game sufficiently to keep him on crutches several weeks. However, now he is in the best of
condition and will play his usual steady game at guard. Romefelt performed both at guard and center last year and
proved equally effective in both positions. He will hold down the center job on this year’s team from the way
things are going at present. Roberts was a star forward on last year’s team and scored fully half the points
chalked up to Davidson's credit. Better work still is expected of him this season.

John Schenck, who was captain of the 1920 team at Clemson, will most probably play one of the forward positions
in his efficient and capable way. Among those who made the varsity trips last year, Doubles, the inter-class point winner;
Crawford, Price, and Sig Shepherd stand out prominently, while Ormand, A. C., Mauze, and several others are back again working
with redoubled energy for the places they did not quite succeed in (Continued on page 6)

1921 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.

Sept. 24: Davidson vs. University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Va.
October 1: Davidson vs. P. C. at Davidson, N. C.
Oct. 8: Davidson vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta, Ga.
Oct. 15: Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Charlotte, N. C.
Oct. 22: Davidson vs. Wofford at Davidson, N. C.
Oct. 29: Davidson vs. University of Richmond at Richmond, Va.
Nov. 5: Davidson vs. N. C. State at Charlotte, N. C.
Nov. 12: Davidson vs. University of N. C. at Winston-Salem or Charlotte.
Nov. 18: Davidson vs. Elon at Davidson, N. C.
Nov. 25: Davidson vs. Furman at Greenville, S. C.

Grey and Hengeveld Duly Celebrated

Davidson’s Athletics Instructors Fall Before Cupid’s Deadly Darts

BLAKE-GREY.

Among the social events of the past holiday season was the wedding of Miss Helen Nell Blake, of Greenwood, S.
C., to Mr. Hugh Morton Grey, of Davidson, N. C. The ceremony took place in the First Presbyterian Church of
the former city at 5:30 o'clock on the afternoon of December 22nd. The church was beautifully decorated in red and
green in keeping with the Christmas tide. Holly and cedar over a white background set off by lighted tapers in
cathedral candlesticks partly hid by decorations around the altar where the couple knelt, made an attractive scene. Beautiful vocal and
instrumental solos were rendered by friends of the bride while the guests were assembling.

Members of the bridal party were: Misses Mary Parks Grey and Thelma Railey, bridesmaids. Major F. F. Blythe and Captain
Karl Coleman, groomsmen. Misses Elizabeth Grey, Elephore Hood, Mr. Otis Blake, and Captain Hearst Coleman attendants. Little Miss Mary Gordon
Green, the ringbearer, stood near her father, Dr. J. B. Green, who performed the ceremony. Mrs. Paul E. Bryson, the
dame, carrying red roses, was followed by the flower girls, Alice Frances McKellar and Pattie Porter. Miss Clara Blake, the
maid of honor, also carried an armful of red roses. The bride was given in marriage by her father, meeting
the groom and his best man, Major G. L. Dickson, before the altar. The bride was beautifully attired in a
wedding gown of satin, trimmed in Duchess lace and she carried a shower bouquet.

Mrs. Grey is the youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Blake, of Greenwood, and is a very popular
and charming bride. She is the grand-niece of the late John Rennie Blake, who for many years was chairman of
the Davidson College faculty. Mr. Grey is football coach at Davidson College and for many years has had a prominent
place in the athletic annals of that college. Coach and Mrs. Grey will reside in Davidson and will receive the
hearty welcome and congratulations not only of the townspeople but also of the entire college student body.

STRICKLAND-HENGEVELD.

Old shoes and rice were much in demand in Waycross, Ga., last Saturday night. This was due to the marriage
of Miss Ruth Strickland of that city to Coach Hengeveld. Although a quiet home wedding—it is rumored that the city
will be riceless and shoeless for several days—owing to the downpour of the above-mentioned articles on the happy couple. Davidson
looks forward with much pleasure and interest to the stay of Mr. and Mrs. Hengeveld in the village. Coach has
made many friends in Davidson due to the thorough and earnest way in which he has taken charge of the
public schools. His popularity as a coach is well-known and townspeople and students alike eagerly await the opportunity of meeting
his wife. The bride and bridegroom expect to make their home with Mrs. Black upon their arrival in Davidson.

Life Work Conference

Prominent Davidson Alumnus to be Here for Four Days This Month

Beginning on Thursday, January 20th, “Tolly” Thompson of the class of 1905 will be here to conduct a Life Work
Conference. Twice before the Y. M. C. A. has tried to bring him here to speak to us and considers
itself especially fortunate in securing his services for four days. His conference, which starts on the 20th, continues through Sunday
the 23rd, and in that time he will make four public addresses to students, and one day, Saturday, will be
reserved entirely for personal interviews with him.

From the time that he entered Davidson College, Dr. Thompson has made a very enviable record for himself. Beginning college
life with the class of 1905, he soon became prominent on the campus and popular among his fellow students. Before
he graduated, his name was known in every branch of college life. He was president of his class, its senior
year, president of the Eumenian Literary Society, for two years editor of the Quips and Cranks, editor of the Davidson
College Magazine, captain of the scrub baseball team. After finishing at the Seminary, he began his work as a minister
and soon attained the success that his college career had shown would come to him in later life.

While he was pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Mobile, Ala., the World War came on and he took up
duties in the Y. M. C. A. at Camp Green, near Charlotte. He became so well liked in the city
that the First Presbyterian Church there extended a call to him. Refusing this, he later went...to Nashville, Tenn., and is
now a professor at Union Seminary. He was a delegate to this past General Assembly in Charlotte. Because of his
splendid work there, he is considered by some as the clearest thinker in the Southern Church. Twice before, Dr. Thompson
has spoken at Davidson, once on the Red Cross and later on behalf of a war memorial to be raised
for the Davidson men killed in the great war. Mr. E. E. Lane will be associated with him next week
to watch the progress made here. His report will be made to the Southern Presbyterian Church to be used in
shaping the general campaigns it is conducting in the south. Mr. Lane, while here a few days ago, stated that
the European countries, as a result of their enormous war losses in men and money, are forced to shift a
large share of the burden of Foreign Missions on us. He also stated the fact that there are already over
200 vacancies in our own Southern Presbyterian pulpits here at home. As far as possible in his talks and interviews,
Dr. Thompson is going to take up the duties of every profession or business in which Christian men will engage.
For this reason, an interview with him will be of the greatest benefit to every student at Davidson College, and
it is hoped that no one will lose this opportunity to see him while he is here.

The Misses Schofield were called to South Carolina by the death of their aunt, Mrs. Clifford, the widow of the
late Dr. Clifford, for many years a member of the board of trustees of Davidson. Mrs. Clifford died at Chester.
Among those present at an elaborate house party given by Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Moore were Mr. and Mrs.
John Moore and son, of Winston-Salem; Miss McAlpine and Master McAlpine, of Japan; Mrs. McElwaine, of Japan; and Mr. Ray,
of Richmond.

Davidson Debaters Win Unanimous Decision from Randolph-Macon Team

C. K. Brown and J. H. McKeithen Represented Davidson in Second Contest of Series—Excellent Preparation Shown by All Debaters

On Tuesday evening, December 7th, Messrs. G. R. Quarles and L. W. Diggs, who had once come from Randolph-Macon to
secure Davidson’s debating scalp, were met by C. K. Brown and J. Harold McKeithan and went away sadder but wiser
men. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, That the Federal Government for a period of twenty years, prohibit the immigration
of Japanese laborers to this country or any of its possessions.” The judges were Col. A. H. Boyden, of Salisbury,
and Messrs. Walter Clark, J. L. Jones, F. M. Redd, and L. B. Vreeland, of Charlotte. The time-keepers were Messrs.
W. E. Leftwick, of Randolph-Macon, and A. M. Mitchell, of Davidson.

The debate was opened by “C. K.” in a masterful presentation. He reviewed the history of the question and gave
four reasons why Japanese should be kept out for twenty years: the difference in their moral, mental, and religious ideals
from ours; the fact that these ideals remain the same when they are in America; their native instinct rendering assimilation
impossible; and the fact that the instinct that guides us in our feeling toward the Japanese is inherent in our
life and cannot be changed. He repeated each point as he finished his argument for it and then called to
mind the points previously made, adding the last-named point to it. His arguments were clearly outlined and vigorously supported, and
his words well chosen and spoken with an evenness that was very pleasing, his speech being recognized as the most
polished of the evening.

Mr. Quarles showed much study of the subject and his points were good, though not as forcefully presented as they
might have been. He seemed to experience some nervousness. He argued the acceptability of the Japanese and presented counter proposals.
McKeithan argued that America is willing to help the Japanese who are here now, but that to avoid either the
destruction of the Caucasian race by intermarriage or a caste system that would destroy democracy, it is necessary to shut
out these foreigners. Mr. Diggs argued that to close our doors as outlined would be unjust, unsound, un-American, and un-Christian.
Here again, the arguments were good but not convincingly delivered.

Of the speeches on rebuttal, that of McKeithan stood out strongly. In a rapid-fire and sharply pointed, though courteous, way,
he met the arguments of the negative by other quotations from the very writers and speakers and authorities they had
mentioned. Such a turning back of points against those who had made them was very effective and strengthened McKeithan’s impression
on his hearers, who felt that this rebuttal had much to do with the decision of the judges. The Randolph-Macon
men made a good impression by their spirit in the contest, and Davidson will be glad to have them again.

D. M. Chalmers Welcomed Back to Campus as “Y” Secretary

Place Left Vacant by Bob Miles to be Occupied by Last Year’s President of the Y. M. C. A.

When the announcement was made to the student body that Dwight Chalmers, ‘20, was to return in the Spring as
“Y” Secretary, the heart of every man present was filled with joy and confidence, for all who knew Dwight knew
that he stands for all that is best and right in true Christian living. To the old men, no introduction
is needed, but to those who have not been a member of the student body long, it will be well
to let them know that our new “Y” Secretary, besides attaining the highest scholastic and general literary honors given by
our college, is also a wearer of the “D,” having played Varsity basketball during two seasons, ‘19 and ‘20, being
captain of the squad in ‘20. Among other honors, it might be mentioned that he was on the Honor Roll
for four years; a member of the Mimir Society, a local Honorary Scholastic Fraternity, similar to the National Phi Beta
Kappa Fraternity; also president of the Y. M. C. A., and the holder of several oratorical medals. Above and beyond
all this, Dwight is the “Buddie” and friend of every fellow on the hill, and is always ready to help
a fellow who is in trouble and needs a friendly pat on the back. Do you know him? If you
don't, you must have been living in the tank!!!

Dr. Byers went to Charlotte and Hickory during the holidays.

There is nothing so discouraging as to read a great deal of the wonderful material about something you are going
to buy and then find out with keen disappointment that what you purchased was just about 40 percent shy. People
want to know all about what they intend to purchase and they expect it to be built upon the truth.
The success of some of America’s greatest business establishments has been based upon the value of underestimating rather than overestimating
what they have to sell. So when the country storekeeper, Deacon Smith, gets up in prayer meeting and says loud
enough for the congregation to hear, “Oh Lord, what a miserable sinner I am,” no one gets excited. They know
that the Deacon does not mean it but is using the technical language of the prayer meeting. But suppose the
old Deacon yelled out loud enough so that all could hear, “Oh (Continued on page 5)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE.

Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Society meeting.
Friday—6:45 p.m., Davidsonian Reporters Club meeting.
Saturday—6:45 p.m., Eu. Society meeting.
6:45 p.m., First show of movies.
8:15 p.m., Second show.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Classes.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—2:00 p.m., Absence Committee meets. All heavy sleepers invited to be present.

RSVP.

LET'S GET OFF TO A GOOD START THIS NEW YEAR
