Diamond Dust

Tomorrow the Wildcat cinder path artists go up against the Engineers from N. C. State in the first dual track meet of the year. Chances for bringing home the bacon look good.

—N. C. State Saturday——

Last Monday the ball tossers fattened their batting averages at the expense of two Wofford hurlers.

—We Want N. C. State—

During the past 20 years Davidson has played Oak Ridge 18 games of baseball. Davidson has won 9, Oak Ridge has won 9, Tied 0.

Wildcats——

Lowe, of Carolina, is the home-run king, with three home runs in three successive games. The only hits he has made have been three four-ply swats.

Wildcats———

Baseball in the Carolinas is now in full swing. Each team has played two or three collegiate games during the past week. Below are the results:

University of N. C., 6; N. C. State, 4.
University of N. C., 5; Virginia, 3.
Wake Forest, 11; Elon, 1.
Trinity, 3; Wake Forest, 4.
Elon, 0; Guilford, 4.
Ga. Tech., 10; Clemson, 1.
U. of S. C., 10; Yale, 15.
Citadel, 8; P. C., 9.

Back the N. C. State Special to Charlotte

The following is the schedule of games to be played by the various colleges on the Davidson schedule this week:

April 7—
Wake Forest vs. Wofford at Wake Forest.
N. C. U. vs. Maryland at Chapel Hill.
Florida vs. Trinity at Durham.
N. C. State vs. Elon at Elon.

April 8—
N. C. U. vs. Florida at Chapel Hill.
Clemson vs. Auburn at Auburn.
N. C. State vs. Guilford at Greensboro.

April 9—
Wake Forest vs. Carolina at Wake Forest.
Maryland vs. Trinity at Durham.
N. C. State vs. Davidson in Charlotte.

April 11—
P. C. vs. Wofford at Clinton.
Florida vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.

April 12—
Davidson vs. Carolina at Chapel Hill.

April 13—
Wofford vs. Citadel at Charleston.
Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
Furman vs. Clemson at Clemson.

April 14—
Davidson vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
Wofford vs. S. C. at Columbia.
Trinity vs. Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Back the N. C. State Special to Charlotte

Next week the Red and Black ball club starts on its first trip through North Carolina. They will take on the four strongest ball teams in the State. Monday they play in Elon, Tuesday they journey to Chapel Hill and try to avenge the game in Winston-Salem; Wednesday Wake Forest will be our opponents, and Thursday we will take on N. C. State in Raleigh. On Saturday a special train will be run to Charlotte for the N. C. State-Davidson game. George Murray, the Engineers’ pitching ace, will be on the mound for the Techmen.

CAPTAIN’S COMMISSION COMES TO ASSISTANT R. O. T. C. INSTRUCTOR

The student body was very interested and pleased to hear of the recent promotion of Lieut. Murray H. Ellis as Captain of Cavalry, the commission being dated a year back. Captain Ellis is the latest addition to the commissioned personnel of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson, and though he has only been here a short while, he has won a place in the hearts of all of us, both military and otherwise.

Captain Ellis was born in Meadville, Penn., and was educated at Allegheny College in the same city. He was commissioned as a lieutenant August 9, 1917, and served on the Mexican border until January, 1921. While on the border Captain Ellis was stationed at Hachita, 1917 to March, 1920, and at Del Rio, Texas, March, 1920 to January, 1921. Captain Ellis came to Davidson on January 20, 1921, and with his wife and two children, has been gladly welcomed into the community.

Athletic News

THE PROGRESS OF TENNIS TOURNAMENT REDUCES REMAINING CONTESTANTS

Eight Men Still Have Opportunity to Win Places on the Team.

The first and second rounds are over. Eight men are left to fight it out for the championship. Saturday witnessed the winding up of the second round in the Davidson tennis championship tournament, now being played. As a whole the matches in the first round were rather one-sided. Most of the winners had a walk-away, as shown by their scores. The second round showed better tennis, but even some of these were easy for the winners. Here is how the first round went:

Gaither vs. Keith—Gaither 6-2, 6-2.
Groves vs. Romefelt—Romefelt 6-2, 3-6, 6-0.
Roberts vs. Wilkinson—Roberts 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.
J. P. Price vs. Elliott—Price 6-1, 6-3.
Brown vs. McIlwaine—Brown — — —
P. Price vs. Roddy—Price 7-5, 6-3.
Ben Dunlap vs. Blue—Dunlap 6-0, 6-2.
Cunningham vs. Hunter, J. V.—Cunningham 6-0, 6-3.
McKutchen vs. McKeithen—McKutchen 4-6, 6-4, 7-5.
Ormand vs. White—Ormand 6-3, 6-3.
Frazier vs. Crane—Frazier 6-4, 6-2.
J. K. Wright vs. A. P. Ormand—Ormand 6-0, 6-3.
Cox vs. Meng—Meng — — —
Morris vs. Davidson—Morris 6-1, 6-1.
Bradford vs. Miller—Miller 6-1, 6-1.
Myers vs. Carruthers—Myers 6-0, 6-0.

The Second Round.

Gaither vs. Romefelt—Gaither 6-1, 6-2.
J. P. Price vs. Roberts—to play.
Brown vs. Price—Brown — — —
Cunningham vs. Dunlap—Cunningham 6-3, 6-2.
McCutchen vs. Ormand—Ormand 6-2, 6-3.
Frazier vs. A. P. Ormand—Frazier 6-2, 2-6, 6-2.
Meng vs. Morris—Morris 6-0, 6-1.
F. Miller vs. Myers—Myers 7-5, 6-1.

All but eight men have now been eliminated. They remain to fight it out for the championship. If you have been so unfortunate to have lost, be a good loser and try again. If you are among the winners, don’t be too sure. Come out and watch the knights of the court fight it out in mortal combat and see who is the winner.

When the games are lost and won,
When the tournament is done.

CHARLOTTE TO WITNESS BASEBALL COMBAT BETWEEN A. & E. AND D. C.

Coach Hengeveld’s Wildcats will leave the Metropolis of Jaybirdsville for the Queen City early Saturday morning where they are to tackle the team from State College. The Wildcats are in fine trim and great things are expected of them Saturday. When the “Ump’s” cry of “Play Ball” is heard on Wearm’ Field, there is going to be a fray that will be worth going miles to witness. State opened her baseball season with a victory over New York University, but following this came a defeat at the hands of the University of North Carolina.

DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1921.

SPRING PRACTICE FORECASTS GOOD FOOTBALL FOR FALL

Spring football has been instituted at Davidson. During the past week the pigskin has had a continuous push by the candidates for the 1921 Wildcat eleven. Cleated shoes and padded clothes have taken their place alongside the lightly clad track outfits. It seems strange to see them together but judging by the pep that the football men are putting into their work this early training is going to be most advantageous.

The cool weather which has been bestowed upon the neighborhood has given Coach Grey a chance to get his men down to real work. Great strides are being made in getting the men used to the game. Most of last year’s squad will return next fall. Captain Hammet was the greatest loss and the hole which he left in the line will be hard to fill. “Center” Brady and Romefelt will also be missing from the line. And to this number Pitts Douglas and it can easily be seen where the most work will have to be done. Four letter men missing from the line is a great handicap but several promising men are already showing up in practice.

In the backfield four letter men will be back for the coming season. Shepherd, Bethea, McFadden, and Moore have all had experience in the game and should have an excellent year under Captain La Far. So far the practices have been so full of life that one would think that it was the fall season.

BATTING AND FIELDING AVERAGES THRU MONDAY

Batting Averages:
AB R H BB SO A
Hodgin 4 2 2 0 0 500
Currie 4 0 2 0 0 500
Freeman 4 0 2 0 1 500
Brown 14 2 6 2 2 429
Shepard 17 3 5 0 4 294
Crawford 15 4 4 1 1 266
Cassell 15 2 4 0 2 266
Ratchford 7 2 1 5 235
Johnson 5 1 1 0 0 200
Miley 5 1 1 0 1 200
Wrenn 16 2 2 0 2 125
Neal 9 0 0 3 1 000
Barnette 8 0 0 2 3 000
Hunter 0 0 0 1 0 000
Totals 113 19 34 8 22 256

Fielding Averages:
PO A E A
Miley 19 0 1 000
Currie 0 3 0 1000
Brown 3 0 0 1000
Hodgin 1 0 0 1000
Ratchford 9 1 3 1 957
Barnette 3 8 0 2 950
Wrenn 2 5 7 3 914
Shepard 6 5 1 917
Cassell 7 1 3 2 909
Crawford 1 5 0 3 833
Neal 2 2 4 500
Johnson 0 0 0 000
Freeman 0 0 0 000
Hunter 0 0 0 000
Totals 106 52 17 902

GOOD TRIPS PLANNED. (Continued from page 1)

Field, there is going to be a fray that will be worth going miles to witness. State opened her baseball season with a victory over New York University, but following this came a defeat at the hands of the University of North Carolina. It seems that Coach Hartzell has...had quite a time rounding out an infield. He has a fine pitching staff with George Murray doing the bulk of the mound work. It will be remembered that if it had not been for the terrific drive of “Runt” Faucette last year we would have had George going extra innings. We lost to Carolina also, and by comparative scores we are just about evenly matched. With the band playing “O Davidson,” and a good representation from the student body, we will have the edge on the A. & E. boys and will be able to bring back the bacon. We have a fine team this year and with plenty of the “ole pep” we are going to down N. C. State. This is the only game in Charlotte, so let’s everybody go down and after the game we will make them know that the Wildcats are untamable.

A. E. Cellar, ex-’22, is in an architect's office at Tampa, Fla. J. D. Cox, ex-’21, who won the shot-put in the spring of '18, was seen at the baseball game played at Davidson last Monday.

Correspondence is under way with N. C. Military and Naval Academy, at Hendersonville; Bingham Military Academy, Asheville School for Boys, at Asheville, and Lenoir College, at Hickory, N. C., in order to schedule games which will make a three or four day trip into that section of the State. Colleges in the southern and eastern part of the State have also been written and there is promise of at least one or two nice trips. About fifteen men will be taken on these trips, thus offering a just reward to the fellows who have been faithful in their work, but who haven't quite succeeded in making the Varsity nine. No definite dates have been agreed upon as yet, but these games will be arranged so that both Scrubs and Varsity trips will be taken at the same time. There is also a possibility of seeing the Wildkittens in action here on the Hill in return games.

Rev. Chas. L. King, ’14, pastor of the Grace-Covenant Church in Richmond, Va., is now recovering from a severe sickness in Atlantic City. He will go to Atlanta, Ga., at the end of this week to assist Dr. B. R. Lacy, Jr., '06, in a series of meetings in the Central Presbyterian Church.

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST MONDAY, APRIL 11
Turn Out, Ye Budding Orators!

The question for debate at the regular meeting of the Eu Society Saturday night was: “Resolved, that waiving all questions of transportation the government should own and operate the coal mines, constitutionality granted.” The affirmative was upheld by Cummings, Weeks, Ives, and Morris. On the negative only Moore and Ogden were present, so the president appointed John Roddey and Baba to fill the vacancies. All of the debaters showed preparation and one or two of the speeches were especially good. The affirmative based their argument on four main points: First, the present system is inadequate; second, the change would be an economic saving; third, government control would be efficient; and lastly, this is the best plan to control the situation. The negative based their argument on three main points: First, government control is inefficient; second, industry would suffer because of the delay in appropriation; third, there would be no stimulus of competition. The judges decided unanimously in favor of the negative and the house also voted in favor of the negative. Sprunt delivered the oration of the evening on, “The Decrease of Interest in the Literary Societies at Davidson.” The speech showed that a great deal of thought had been put on the question, and some good ideas and suggestions were brought out. A motion was made that there be no Literary Society meeting next Saturday night on account of the game, and was unanimously passed. It was announced that the officers for the fall term would be elected at the next meeting, and adjournment followed.

PHI SOCIETY.
April 7—Regular Debate
Affirmative: M. P. Calhoun, W. R. Morton, A. F. Fricker
Negative: A. J. Murray, J. I. Knight, L. A. Wodten
Extemporaneous Debate: G. N. Neel, H. A. Hilt
Declamations: J. B. McCallum, L. P. Burney

TRACK TEAM CHOSEN.
(Continued from page 1)

laps of the track in 10:50, just 10 seconds higher than the record made by Brand, '19. The track team makes its first trip of the season Friday to A. & E. Coach Grey has the squad in A No. 1 condition for the first meet. They have been in training for two months and according to the stopwatch last Saturday, Coach Grey has produced some good material to represent Davidson at State College. A. & E. went up against the Wake Forest team last week and secured a pretty good practice, winning 88-40. We expect the Wildcats to get just as good a practice off of them. The cats can make some pretty good time and altitude with two feet, and they also make good use of their right paw with the javelin, shot, and discus. The track team is just as much an athletic organization as any other team that leaves the Hill, and they also work just as hard. So fellows, let’s show them that we are behind them and backing them in every way possible.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
(Just off Tryon)

In the Phi Society last Thursday night the query for debate was, “Resolved that waiving all questions as to transportation the government should own and operate the coal mines, constitutionality granted.” In spite of this rather wordy subject a lively debate was staged by D. R. Freeman, S. R. Sloan, and W. S. Smith, on the affirmative, and R. H. Brown, Y. C. Henderson, and C. W. Robinson on the negative. The affirmative based its argument on the following points: First, that the government could run coal mines more cheaply than they are now run; second, that government ownership would prevent existing profiteering; third, that there would be a more equal distribution of coal throughout the country. In opposition to these points the negative upheld their side of the question with the arguments that the government is not a business organization, that this would involve tremendous waste, and that such action is illegal. The program was closed by an oration on “Anglo-Saxon Superstitions” by Clark, and one on the subject of “Capital and Labor” by Taylor.

LIBRARY NEWS.
Students of English, especially those of the upper classes, will be pleased to know that 17 volumes have recently been added to the library, dealing with some of the world’s best authors and poets. These works suggest the best methods of studying the different authors and of knowing them and their writings. The different writers discussed and the names of those discussing them are as follows: Arnold, by Stuart P. Sherman; Browning, by William Lyon Phelps; Burns, by William Allan Neilson; Carlyle, by Bliss Perry; Dante, by Alfred M. Brooks; Defoe, by William P. Trent; Dickens, by Richard Burton; Emerson, by Samuel Crothers; Hawthorne, by George Edward Woodberry; the Bible, by George Hodges; Lamb, by Will D. Howe; Stevenson, by Richard A. Rice; Tennyson, by Raymond Alden; Whitman, by Brand Whitlock; Wordsworth, by C. T. Winchester; Ibsen, by Archibald Henderson; and Poe, by C. A. Smith. The writers of the two latter books are North Carolina men, the former being a professor at the University of North Carolina, and the latter a graduate of Davidson.

Brevard McDowell, ‘69, of Charlotte, N. C., who will be remembered by the present students for his humorous lecture on last Armistice Day in the old chapel, has donated to Davidson a considerable part of the library which belonged to him and the late Mrs. McDowell. As Mrs. McDowell was an excellent French student and traveled extensively in Europe, a large number of interesting French books is found in the collection. A member of the library committee has sent down to Charlotte to have the books inspected and ways and means devised of getting them to Davidson. They will probably be available at the Davidson library in the next week or two.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own auto or team or can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52 years in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department C, Winona, Minnesota.

Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. Our gloves run from $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 30 cents to $8.50 each. Give us your order. Phone 3248.