THEDAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

CINDER TRACK RAPIDLY BEING PUT IN SHAPE

The track is now being put into shape so that our men can really get down to practice. Ditching, leveling,
rolling, etc., are rapidly getting the oval into good shape, although this is not yet finished. The 100-yard straightaway has
been leveled and covered with cinders and will be in excellent shape as soon as it gets packed a little
more. The new cinder take-off for the jumps and the pole vault is in perfect condition and, together with the
new standards, will add very much in the development of our jumpers and vaulters.

Glee Club Enjoys Successful Trip Thru N. C.

Charlotte, Winston, Lexington, Asheville and Hendersonville Constituted Itinerary for Six-Day Tour

The Glee Club invaded the city of Charlotte on Monday night, the 14th, for the purpose of giving a concert
at Queens College, the first jumping-off place on their six-day concert tour. The concert itself was given in a pleasing
and entertaining way, and followed by a reception for the club. All agreed that the college was rightly named for
there were nothing but “queens” present. The entire personnel of the club expressed itself as having had a hilariously good
time. The delicious refreshments served were greatly enjoyed by everyone. From what could be observed, each member of the club
had no less than half a dozen girls to murmur “sweet nothings” in his ears. Allison was kept busy handing
out pieces of ribbon from his bouquet—which he received following his solo—to the girls as mementos.

Tuesday, the songsters journeyed to the Twin City, arriving in the metropolis of the state about 3:00 p.m. The trip,
while rather lengthy for some members of the club, proved uneventful. Refreshments consisting of pies, cakes, and sandwiches were served
at Barbers Junction to all who had the necessary amount of “filthy lucre” to pay for being refreshed. After the
club had been comfortably lodged in the Zinzendorf Hotel, McKeithan and Adams went on an exploring expedition to Salem College
to make sure that all the girls knew about the concert. They reported that a good crowd would be on
hand, for they had extended personal invitations to all. The concert in Memorial Hall of the college went off in
fine shape. A large and appreciative audience was present and the boys did their best to entertain them every minute
of the time. The reception given the club following the concert, by the Junior and Senior classes of the college
was an enjoyable affair. Refreshments consisting of delicious punch and cakes were served by the girls. After having spent an
enjoyable hour in the midst of this large group of pretty girls, the boys adjourned to their rooms in the
hotel to meditate and dream of the queen each had met. Gibson expressed the feelings of the entire troupe when
he remarked, “I took my heart to Salem, but I left it there.”

Wednesday about noon the club turned its back on the city of Nicotiana Tobaccum and proceeded southward in the direction
of Lexington. Fred Thomp- (Continued on page 6)

Wildcats Drop Three in a Row

Commanding Officers of Battalion—Captain, Boulware, J. R.; Captain, Romefelt, B. W.; Major, Rogers, R. L.; Captain, McCaskill, J. C.; Captain,
Mitchell, A. M. Photo by McIlwaine.

Wild Kittens Claw Twin City Flying Squadron

Mauze and MacDonald Do Best Work for Scrubs—Davis Plays Good Game for High School Lads

Coach Hengeveld and his “papa cats” returned Saturday in time to see the Wildkittens completely rout the “Black and Gold
Flying Squadron” from Winston-Salem Hi. The game was a rough, hard-fought encounter, but at times the teams put out some
real playing and then things got lively. At times the ball rolled around the floor with no one apparently able
to pick it up. Several of the players also spent much time on the floor. Mauze and Scheidt especially seemed
to like the reclining position. The “Twins” drew first blood when Davis caged a foul. But this merely tore a
little fur out of the Kitten's coat and did no real damage. But it put the fight into the Kittens
and two field goals by Mauze followed by two by McConnell and one by McDonald, put our young hopefuls far
in the lead. The rest of the half was about even and the Kittens led 13-7 at the halfway station.
The second half opened with a rush, and for a time it looked as though “the lads from the tobacco
city” would tie the score. For some time the Red and Black led by a scant 4-point margin. But when
Mauze rang up four in rapid succession and McConnell added another, our untamed Kittens were safely in the lead again.
Mauze seemed to weary in well-doing at this point and one more goal was the best he could do. But
Jim and Sam carried on nobly and the game ended safely in the Kitten’s clutches. The Kittens speared 41 of
the squadron's flies, while the visitors had to be content with 19 hairs from the Kitten’s tail. The “Hi Boys”
played a clean, hard game. Their three fouls stood out in sharp contrast to the Presbyterians’ 12. Davis was their
star performer, collect- (Continued on page 3)

Eleven Seniors Speak in Preliminaries for Inter-Oratorical Contest

Four Men Selected to Contend for Medal at Commencement

Eleven Seniors burst forth into oratory of varying intensity last Tuesday night in Shearer Hall. As each speaker sat down
it seemed as if he, assuredly, had the Oratorical Medal already won. But the final decision of the judges was
that D. R. Freeman and S. M. Query should represent the Philanthropic Society in the finals; J. C. McCaskill and
A. P. Ormand the Eumenean. A. F. Fricker was chosen asthe alternate. Freeman presented the subject of “Ideals in Five
Pictures,” consisting of the merry child; the youthful lover; the careworn businessman; and the withered old man at the end
of a misspent life. His fifth picture was the grand old man at the end of a well-spent life in
whom survives the child and the lover. To conclude, he made an appeal for those ideals that keep alive youth
and love throughout the years.

Ormand spoke on “The Soul of the Union,” the Constitution, and this can never be set aside with safety to
the Union. He showed that ours is the first successful attempt at representative, republican government and that we destroy the
very soul of that government by setting aside the Constitution.

“The Test of the Labor Unions” was presented by Query, and considered in the light of their benefit to labor
and their effect upon the nation. He showed how they had actually benefited labor, but he doubted whether or not
the good done to labor balanced with the hindrance they have been to progress in critical times.

McCaskill declared that saving the world was not such an impossible task if we would socialize education in reconstruction. Such
a system must include training in principles of citizenship. But only through such a system can the world be saved
from the forces (Continued on page 3)

Collegiate Debates Held in Both Societies
Ambitious Orators Contend for Places in Contests to be Held With Wake Forest and Mercer

Eu Society. The contestants for places on Davidson's inter-collegiate debating teams met Friday night in the Eu Hall, in a
well-prepared and hotly argued preliminary. Those upholding the affirmative were: A. P. Ormand, P. D. Miller, and J. M. Richards.
The negative team was composed of W. A. Gamble, A. M. Mitchell, and R. Bitzer. The subject was the same
which will be used in the Wake Forest debate, Resolved: that the United States should cancel her war loans to
the Allies.

The basis of the argument on the affirmative was the inequality of the burdens of the present war, which was
ours as much as that of the Allies; the inability of the Allies to regain their equilibrium in financial and
economic conditions without our help; the need for a recovering of our former prestige in Europe; and the economic value
both to the Allies and to the United States.

The negative advanced arguments and proof showing that the Allies were able to pay their just debts contracted during the
war; that what they needed was not a cancellation of their debts, but credit to purchase raw materials for their
industries. The judges chose W. A. Gamble, P. D. Miller, A. P. Ormand, and J. M. Richards as principals, and
R. Bitzer as alternate. These men will debate on March 11th in the finals, together with men chosen from the
Phi Society. From these “rep” men will be chosen the two teams to meet Wake Forest and Mercer in April.
(Continued on page 3)

Row to Carolina Colleges
N.C. State Noses Out Victory by One Point Margin—Team Fights Hard Against Elon and Carolina

Davidson vs. Elon. In the first game of the North Carolina trip, the Wildcats went down in defeat before the
sturdy Elonites, by the score of 30 to 19. The game was hard-fought from start to finish and in the
second half the Wildcats staged a spectacular comeback and led their opponents in the scoring, but the lead the boys
from Elon had obtained in the first half was not to be overcome. The close guarding of Elon was the
feature of the first half. They did not allow the “Red and Black Machine” to score from the field during
that period. The Wildcats were handicapped by the peculiarities of the court and by the conduct of the rooters on
the sidelines. In the second half, the Presbyterians came back with vengeance and ran their opponents off their feet, but
strove in vain to overcome the lead of 12 points the other team had gained. Roberts was the chief point
collector for the Presbyterian aggregation, scoring 15 out of the 19 points. Romefelt played a nice game at center and
John Schenck was the center of the offensive. For Elon, Johnson was the stellar light. He played a hard fast
game and caged a good many long shots. Fix also did good work.

Summary
Davidson: Position: Elon:
Schenck, J. Fix (8) R. F.
Roberts (15) Newman (6) L. F.
Romefelt (2) Johnson, B. (4) C.
Crawford Johnson, E. (10) R. G.
Schenck, L. McAdams (2) L. G.

Substitutes—Davidson: Davis for Schenck, L.; Ormond (2) for Schenck, J.; Schenck, J. for Crawford. Referee: Stewart, Greensboro.

Davidson vs. N. C. State. N. C. State reaped revenge on Davidson last Thursday night at the Raleigh Auditorium, overcoming
a 45 to 13 defeat suffered on Davidson's floor last month, by winning a 29 to 28 victory on their
home court. The Wildcats led off with speed and clean teamwork, which promised them a victory over the State five,
ending the first half of the game with a score of (Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE.
Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Literary Society.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Study Classes, 3:30 p.m., Davidson College Sunday School Class at Presbyterian Church. 6:15 p.m. “Y” Service.
8:00 p.m., Basketball: Charlotte “Y” vs. Davidson, at Davidson.
Friday—6:45 p.m. Leaders Group Discussion Class. Reporters’ Club Meeting.
Saturday—6:45 p.m. Movies: “Forbidden Fruit.” 8:00 p.m., Glee Club Concert in Shearer Hall. 9:00 p.m., Eu Literary Society.

BETTER LUCK NEXT TIME, WILDCATS!
