THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.

“MADE-IN-CAROLINA”

Several fellows from the Hill journeyed over to the city last weekend to take in the “Made in Carolinas” Exposition.
In addition to taking in the exposition, a number visited Ed Mellon’s to look over his display of college men’s
clothing. Practically every one of these were impressed with the Hart-Schaffner and Marx suits and top coats. They are now
making college men’s clothing without the “Rah Rah” stuff—in other words, clothing immaculate but sensible and with a note of
distinction that appeals to a college man. To judge from the number of “newly-shods” on the campus now, the line
of Brogue Oxfords and shoes also caught the eye of a number of men. These, too, have a strong appeal
for college men.

It isn’t too early now to begin thinking about that overcoat. Davidson winters aren’t so warm. Better journey down and
look them over now before the stock decreases. Anything you want in wearing apparel you can get at Mellon’s. “A
distinctly college man’s store, on Trade near Tryon.” “Remember you haven’t seen Charlotte until you have seen Ed. Mellon’s.” It’s
the largest clothing establishment in the Carolinas. Adv.

(Continued next week.)

REASON FOR WEEPING.

The young Shah of Persia is fond of telling the following story concerning his great-grandfather, the famous Nasr-ed-Din. In his
old age, this ruler lost his good looks—a fact which troubled him greatly. One day he studied his features in
a glass attentively for some time and then, dismayed by his ugliness, began to weep. At once the Court Fool
began weeping also, and even when, after lamenting for two whole hours, the Shah dried his tears, the Fool continued
weeping more violently than ever. Nasr-ed-Din looked at him in astonishment and asked him the cause of his sorrow.

“I wept with reason,” he said, “at beholding my ugliness—I, the Lord of so many lands, the master of countless
slaves. But I do not understand why you should thus despair.”

“If you, my Lord,” replied the Fool, “wept for two hours after seeing yourself in the glass, should not I,
who must look at you all day long, weep longer than you?” —Ex.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Clothing Agents may come
Clothing Agents may go
But the Commissary stays on forever.

Signs of the Time.

The Freshman—Awkward, loud, and hopeless. Lives on ignorance and curiosity; generally harmless.

The Sophomore—Has lived through his Freshman year. Thinks he knows something and looks forward to the time he will be
a senior.

The Junior—Unsettled. Spends his time engaged in the fine art of bulling. Thinks he is the whole cheese.

The Senior—Has fatherly ways and bemoans the many failures of his past. Has hopes of a diploma.

Fragrance.

Buddy Hines came downtown last week with so much olive oil on his hair he smelled like Italy.

Exactly.

Professor—What are two lines of poetry?
Fresh—A Foot.

Mis-placed.

Doctor—Where is Mr. Cornelius?
Carr—He is sick in the commissary.

Ignorance.

Junior—Pass the Zip Fresh.
Fresh—What is that?

It’s So.

There was once a man from Gibraltar
Who looked like he needed a halter.
To judge by his mug
You would think him a thug:
This terrible man of Gibraltar.

For Sale Cheap

One six-hole Steel Range, excellent condition. Also one set of Shelves.
Mrs. T. W. LINGLE, Davidson

Visit Our Fountain

All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men.
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies.
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINAIt was so hot out in Arkansas this summer that I saw a hound dog chasing a jack
rabbit and they were both walking. Fresh Moss—Shucks, it was so hot in Atlanta this summer we had to feed
our hens cracked ice to keep them from laying hard-boiled eggs. Prohibition. A Freshman from Alabama tells one of the
professors it has been so dry in his state that there are bullfrogs down there eight years old who haven't
learned to swim. Mammoth Cave. At Williamson’s—Simpson to Duke Walthall—Your mouth is so large you can't eat cornbread for fear
of getting crumbs in your ears.

Snap Judgment. Soph Matheson thinks the mimeograph machine in the Armory is the new device used by the army for
measuring a man's foot. Jew Elliott sends a telegram asking Apples go up five cents. A Balance of Power. On
Class — Prof—"Mr. Woolfolk, why is it a person having only one tongue has two ears?” Mr. Woolfolk—"So as to
balance the body.” It’s So. Senior—Are these pictures of the war going to be real? Fresh—Sure they are all reels.

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

GOOD MORNING

HERE you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner---vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor---peculiar to
real North Carolina cooks---served in home style.

Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
Every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel
Second Floor

J.B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance

He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

For Nearly a Century

Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of the Synods of
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient
than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records

We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary

W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN

New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45 Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

LIFE INSURANCE---A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real Success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: ‘The largest service to the largest number”

Write to the:
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE---GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL---ONE MILLION DOLLARS
