THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11, 1921

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

Head of Flora Macdonald College Dr. Sam Mitchener, '08, will be remembered by the old students as a chemistry stud.
His preferred brand of perfumery was acid odor generated in the Martin Chemical Laboratory. He is spoken of in complimentary
terms in the last issue of the State health bulletin.

W. Latter Law, '16, is now holding a responsible position at Havana with the Trust Company of Cuba. C. F.
Mayes, '09, an alumnus of Davidson, who has distinguished himself as a chemist, is also at Havana.

Messrs. W. L. Campbell, ex-'23; W. E. Hennesee, ex-'20, and Ernest Currie, ex-'16, were licensed by the State Board to
practice law in North Carolina on January 31st, last.

W. A. Price, '09, Ph.D., has been making an investigation of the carboniferous farms of West Virginia for the State’s
Geological Survey.

Dr. Harold Dabney Kerr, ex-'13, has been married recently to Miss Eleanor Smith, of Catonsville, Md.

Of the six Southern Presbyterian churches in Baltimore, the pastors of three of them are Davidson men. Rev. W. J.
McMillan, D.D., ex-'1893, is pastor of the Maryland Avenue Church; Rev. Charles D. Holland, 1910, is pastor of the Dickey
Memorial Church, and Rev. R. L. Riddle, 1911, is at the Franklin Square Church.

Rev. R. D. Dodge, 1909, has removed from Memphis, Tenn., to Logan, W. Va.

The engagement of Thornwell F. Smith, 1913, now of Wilmington, N. C., to Miss Grant, of the same city, has
been announced. The wedding will take place in April.

Rev. H. A. Scott, 1916, of Arkansas, was a visitor for a few hours last week. He was en route
from Danville, Va., to the Georgia School of Technology, where he will study Engineering. This change of work has been
made necessary by a serious ear trouble.

Mr. J. K. Foster, ex-'19, now employed in Winston-Salem, is considering entering the University of Pennsylvania next fall.

Rumbling rumors are coming in with reference to class reunions this year. The class of 1911 is already laying plans.

Friends of M. M. Grey, '07, are congratulating him on the birth of a daughter.

A. T. Cashion, '17, and his wife, of Gastonia, were in Davidson last Sunday visiting his mother, Mrs. A. S.
Brown.

The program of the Laymen’s Missionary Convention, to be held in Greenville, S. C., on March 8th and 9th, contains
the name of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle.

“Red” Nimmocks, ex-'19, has recently received commission of second lieutenant in the army and is now located at Camp Jackson.

Mr. F. L. Jackson visited Columbia, S. C., last week, where he met several Davidson alumni, among them being C.
R. Jenkins, '17; H. B. Dendy, '19; R. C. Miller, '19; R. C. Clontz, ex-'21; O. N. Hunnicutt, '19, and
W. J. Hunnicutt, '19. These men are now in the midst of their mid-term examinations. Dendy was in the penitentiary
the day before (preaching) but was out when Mr. Jackson was in Columbia.

S. D. Brice, ex-'21, the fighting little guard on Coach Hengeveld’s quintet last year, is still running true to form.
He is playing on the Selma, Ala., “Y” team and has won several games by his expert shooting, scoring over
half the points himself. He expects to return next year to graduate.

E. F. Fairey, ex-'23, was seriously injured in an explosion several days ago. A piece of an exploded automobile tank
went through his lung. His condition is critical, but he is expected to recover.

“Man never shows the youth of his soul so pitifully as when first left alone with white paper and an
idea.”

Alumni News

CHARLES GRAVES VARDELL

Was Graduated From Davidson With Class of '88.

Charles Graves Vardell, '88, was born in Charleston, S. C., February 12, 1860. Owing to unsettled conditions after the Civil
War, he had very few educational opportunities and atQuite an early age went to work; first on the family plantation,
then on the phosphate fields of South Carolina. At the early age of 19, he entered United States Government service
as superintendent of Farm, Summerville, S.C. In his twenty-first year, he went to Minnesota. There, it was in 1896 that
he was called to be the head of the newly organized Red Springs Seminary, a school for young women. The
development of this school has been one of the interesting stories of the growth of women's education in North Carolina.
This school has a present enrollment of 310 with a faculty of 39; property, lands, and buildings valued at more
than $400,000, and an endowment of $160,000. About 3,000 young women have had the advantages of the institution. In 1901,
Davidson College conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity. He is still president of this college (now Flora
Macdonald College), the leading Presbyterian college for women in the South. Dr. and Mrs. Vardell have been blessed with six
children, one boy and five girls.

Experimental Tea

VOLUMES ON PSYCHOLOGY ADDED TO LIBRARY

The library committee has recently added a number of books on Psychology to the library. These books should prove especially
interesting to members of the Psychology classes. Here is the list:

- Psychology—James.
- Psychology from the Standpoint of a Behaviorist—Watson.
- Growth and Education—Tyler.
- Psychology of the Common Branches—Freeman.
- Psychology of High School Subjects—Judd.
- Educational Psychology—Thorndike.
- First Book in Psychology—Calkins.
- Educational Psychology—Gordon.
- Essentials of Psychology—Pillsbury.
- Beginner's Psychology—Titchener.
- How We Think—Dewey.
- Psychology of Thinking—Miller.
- Introduction to Psychology—Yerkes.

He united with the Presbyterian Church, deciding to enter the Gospel ministry. With the assistance of a friend, he went
to the Preparatory School of Oberlin College and was a student there for two years. In the fall of 1885,
he entered as a conditioned Sophomore at Davidson College, graduating with the class of 1888, A.B. degree. In the fall
of the same year, he entered Princeton Theological Seminary and was graduated in 1891. Soon afterward, he accepted a call
to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church of Newbern, N.C. During this same year, he was elected trustee of Davidson
College and member of the Board of Regents of Barium Springs Orphanage. In October 1891, he was married to Miss
Lynda L. Rumple, a daughter of that staunch friend of Davidson College, Rev. Jethro Rumple, of Salisbury, N.C.

You'll swing into the Camel procession as easily and as delightedly as any of the thousands of smokers who have
found these cigarettes an absolute revelation in quality, in refreshing flavor, and mellow mildness. Camels are unlike any cigarette you
ever puffed. They are a creation—an expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos. As sure as you are
a foot high, you will prefer Camels blend to either kind of tobacco smoked straight! Camels fit in with your
cigarette desires just one hundred percent! The satisfaction they impart to smokers is simply joyous. Camels will not tire your
taste! Camels leave no unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor. You'll prove out our enthusiasm when you compare Camels
with any cigarette in the world at any price!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Say it with Flowers

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 28-W
CORNELIUS, N.C.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

As a matter of fact, your first R-E-A-L cigarette pleasure will come with Camels. And, Camels are sold everywhere in
scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.
