THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

WOODROW WILSON CHAIR OF ECONOMICS IS A BIG HELP

During the recent Million Dollar Campaign, the Gastonia, N. C., Presbyterian Church made it possible to establish the Woodrow Wilson
Chair of Economics and Political Science at Davidson. This church, by their $50,000 donation, secured for Davidson an everlasting benefit
and established a fitting memorial to the greatest alumnus of Davidson College, Woodrow Wilson.

Mr. Wilson, when he learned that this chair was established in his name, acknowledged the distinction in a letter to
Dr. Martin. In this letter, Mr. Wilson voiced his appreciation of the honor and his feeling of goodwill and affection
for Davidson. Since the founding of this chair in 1920, it has been occupied by Prof. A. Currie, A.B. (Davidson
College, Columbia University, Cornell University). Professor Currie has built up this chair until now it is one of the most
popular and successful courses at Davidson.

WINSTON ALUMNUS SUGGESTS LEAVING PLANS TO FACULTY

The following letter, dated December 5, has been received by the Alumni Editor from a member of the Davidson Alumni
Association of Winston-Salem:

Davidson alumni everywhere are deeply grieved to learn of the fire which destroyed the Chambers building, and yet we all
believe that this is but the beginning of better things for the college and the dawning of the day of
Davidson’s greatest growth in progress and efficiency. Every alumnus is almost brimming over with plans for the reconstruction to come
and the design of the new buildings which shall start the new era.

I have talked and written to numbers of the alumni all over the country and everywhere it is the same
story. There lies a danger in that very enthusiasm, however, which will doubtless cause some embarrassment to the authorities unless
we of the alumni see it and prevent it in time. Nearly every one of us has his little pet
idea of just what must be done to best work out the plan. Now there are so many of us
that it will be manifestly impossible to do anything that will not conflict with somebody’s little hobby or some fellow’s
most hallowed associations. Hardly any two of us want exactly the same thing and very few of us know enough
about the actual conditions to plan very wisely. Now wouldn’t it be wiser for all of us to take this
position: Let the college authorities get the best advice and help in planning from the best architect in the United
States who specializes in college work. Then when the plan is made, let them work it out to the greatest
extent their means and our help can accomplish. Whatever that plan may be, we will back it to the last
ditch whether it fits our pet associations or not. I have not consulted the college authorities in making this suggestion,
but I have talked to enough of the alumni to know it is necessary and I should like to hear
from some of the other alumni through your pages in this regard. I have enough faith in the alumni of
Davidson College to believe they will see the point and be good enough sportsmen to stand behind the college in
any plan it may decide on.

Yours loyally,
James C. Harper.

HAROLD LLOYD COMEDY AND LITTLE ITALY AT PICTURES

After laughing till the tears came at a two-year-old Harold Lloyd comedy, the spectators at the movies Saturday night settled
back to watch Alice Brady in “Little Italy.” Ordinarily, such comedies as have been shown here have been run after
the main show, but for a change, this one was run beforehand. “Little Italy” would have been pretty good if
there had only been a little less of it. A strange note in the play was an Irish priest in
charge of an Italian parish. Saturday’s show will be Elsie Ferguson in “Moonlight and Honeysuckle.”

STONEWALL JACKSON CAME HERE ON VISIT YEARS AGO

A writer in the Baltimore Sun gives the following interesting account of a visit of General Stonewall Jackson to Davidson.

To the Editor of the Baltimore Sun—Sir: Your account of the burning of Chambers Hall, Davidson College, North Carolina, November
28th, recalls a most interesting association of the institution with the foremost military genius the world has seen since the
passing of Napoleon. When Major T. J. Jackson was paying his addresses to Miss Anna Morrison, the lady who became
his second wife, July 1857, he visited the college while on his way to the Morrison home in an adjoining
county, and was the guest of his prospective brother-in-law, Major D. H. Hill, then in charge of the mathematical department.
The Chambers building was then in its initial stage, 1857; the college was founded in 1837, the Rev. R. H.
Morrison, Jackson's second father-in-law, being the president. The first Mrs. Jackson was Miss Eleanor Junkin, whose father, northern by birth
and sympathy, was president of Washington College, 1840-1861, casting his lot with the Union. Jackson was left desolate after a
brief period of married life. During Hunter's raid upon Lexington, Va., Dr. Junkin accompanied the Federal forces, June 1864, visiting
the grave of Jackson and his first wife in the historic cemetery whose renown has circled the earth with its
glory.

Henry T. Shepherd.

DR. JAMES A. McLAUCHLIN MAKING A FINE RECORD

Dr. James Argyle McLauchlin, 1887, was born at Wadesboro, N.C., and was graduated from the high school of his native
town. He then came to Davidson where he took the A.B. degree in 1887 and later came back and took
his M.A. degree.In 1900 he was given the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature by King College, Bristol, Va. His
experience as an educator has been of a broad and liberal character. He taught in Kansas for four years, and
for five years was superintendent of schools of his native town, Wadesboro, while he further spent seven years as professor
of mathematics in Austin College, Sherman, Texas. After leaving Austin College, Dr. McLauchlin was for four years superintendent of schools
at Mangum, Oklahoma, where he met with splendid success. So well was his work done at that place that he
was called to the presidency of the Central State Normal School at Edmond. For three years he directed the affairs
of this institution, and as a result of his efforts the attendance was increased from 1,100 in June, 1908, to
about 1,700 in June, 1911, a gain of about sixty percent, and that during the days of state construction, when
things were in a disturbed and unsatisfactory condition. It is significant that during this time President McLauchlin was instrumental in
arranging with the proper authorities of 20 states to accept the diploma of the Central Normal School as a license
to teach in those states without further examination. For nearly four years, now, he has been the head of the
department of Foreign Languages at the Southwestern State Normal School, of Oklahoma. Here, as elsewhere, he has shown the same
scholarly, dignified, high-toned character and his work reflects the type of man he is. As a Latinist, his method of
instruction is pedagogical and sound, while his technique, his feeling for the heart and spirit of his work is eminently
correct. The same methods pervade the other languages which he is called upon to teach, and he possesses in a
large measure the faculty of leading students to feel and appreciate literature as well as master its mechanical apparatus. As
a man, Doctor McLauchlin is the highest type of gentleman, while as a friend it can be said of him
as it was beautifully said in the epitaph of the little New England maiden: “Think what a friend should be:
she was all of that.”

ENGAGEMENTS.
The engagement of Rev. W. S. Golden has been announced. The wedding will take place in January. The engagement of
Mr. N. B. Boney, ex-’17, to Miss Janet Louise Kornegay is announced. The wedding is to take place Wednesday morning,
December 28, 1921.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI.
Rev. Marion S. Huske, '11, has accepted the call, recently extended to him, to the pastorate of the First Presbyterian
Church of Reidsville, N.C. Mr. Huske took up his new work on Sunday, November 20, 1921. Rev. P. D. Patrick,
'16, has moved to Effingham, S.C. Rev. N. P. Farrior, '16, with Mrs. Farrior, has recently gone to Mexico and
will be located at Coyoacan. W. A. Goodman, '07, of Salisbury, N.C., visited Davidson last week to inspect the ruins
of Chambers. Orren Poe, ex-’22, and J.C. McMasters, '20, are now located in Rock Hill, S.C., where they have been
playing on the local football team. Sam Burney Hay, '16, is supplying the Hebron and Hepzibah churches in Sumter County,
S.C. Albert P. Bauman, '05, is cashier of the Commercial National Bank in Raleigh, N.C. Carl H. Long, '21, who
is traveling all states, stopped in Davidson last week while on his way to Winston-Salem, N.C. R. M. Miller, Jr.,
'70, of Charlotte, has been president of the Alumni Association during the past two years. J. C. Warper, '15, of
the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, and J. K. Foster, ex-'19, of Winston-Salem, motored through the mud last week
to see Chambers building after her conflagration. D. W. Davidson, '80, inspected the remains of Chambers last week. J. G.
Richards, '20, is working for the Greensboro Bank. He has 250 men under his direction in construction work. Lawrence Elliott,
'10, is cashier of the Bank in Greensboro, N.C.

GIFTS THAT LAST.
I can supply your needs in this line. Most complete line of Xmas cards in town. W.S. HENDERSON, JEWELER, DAVIDSON,
N.C.

SAM.
Gifts of Jewelry and gifts that last. We invite your inspection.

Students! Alumni! CHAMBERS IS GONE.
Keep alive her memory in your home. Put on your walls a picture of Chambers as seen from the southwest
walk, the most beautiful view of the columns and building, a representation in colors of the grand old building on
an autumn afternoon. 8x10 color prints, double mounted, ready for framing. These pictures are ready for immediate delivery. Mailed flat
in “photomailers” to any address for $1.25. On the hill $1.00. Mail us a check or, if you prefer, drop
us a card and we will mail the picture C.O.D. The supply is limited. R. R. McILWAINE, DAVIDSON, N.C., ROOM
17 WATTS.

Say it with Flowers. SCHOLTZ, the Florist, Charlotte, N.C. WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY. Phone 298. JAKE MARTIN, Manager.

Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Established 1873. A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co. Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry. 213 N.
Liberty Street, BALTIMORE, MD.

L. A. ELLIOTT.
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS. I've got all the supplies for them. CANDIES, PICKLES, SANDWICHES “an' everything.” FRUITS.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY, Charlotte, N.C. Local agent J. W. Phillips, 75 Chambers.

White’s Meat Market. BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED. Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.
