THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 21, 1921.

BETA THETA PI FRATERNITY WINS BELK FRATERNITY CUP FOR SCHOLARSHIP

The Belk Scholarship Cup awarded to the fraternity making the highest general average was this year presented to Beta Theta
Pi. The averages for the year 1919-1920 were as follows:
- Beta Theta Pi, 81.8 per cent.
- Kappa Alpha, 78.64 per cent.
- Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 78.51 per cent.
- Kappa Sigma, 75.65 per cent.
- Pi Kappa Alpha, 74.11 per cent.

This loving cup was presented to the Davidson College fraternities in 1911 by Mr. W. H. Belk, of Charlotte, N.C.
It remains permanently in the possession of the fraternity that wins it for ten years. Engraved on this cup is
this record:
- Kappa Sigma, 1912 and 1913.
- Kappa Alpha, 1914 and 1919.
- Beta Theta Pi, 1915, 1916, 1917, and 1920.
- Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1918.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

DR. FRAZER HOOD RECEIVED AS MEMBER OF SIGMA UPSILON

The Sigma Upsilon held a meeting last Wednesday night, January 5th, in the Bachelors’ Hall. A new member, Dr. Frazer
Hood, was initiated and he presented a most interesting and well-written thesis on the Psychology of Judas. This was followed
by a very interesting paper on certain old Civil War traditions of Wilmington by Dave Roberts. The last chapter of
a continued novel was then read by Jap Cummings, and the happy ending of it put everybody in a good
humor to welcome the usual “feed.” It was decided at this meeting that the medal, which has heretofore been given
to the man doing the best work for the magazine, will in the future be awarded to the student who
presents the best three articles for that publication each year.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

FRATERNITIES AND CLUBS INITIATE NEW MEN

Forty-one Men Ride the Goat on Night of Monday, the 17th. The following is a list of the initiates:

Pi Kappa Alpha:
- Baker, '24, Rowland, N. C.
- Boykin, '24, Halifax, N. C.
- Hillshouse, '24, Waynesboro, Ga.
- Jones, '24, El Paso, Texas.
- McKellar, '24, Rowland, N. C.

Kappa Sigma:
- J. Douglas Bernhardt, '23, Lenoir, N. C.
- C. M. Davis, '24, Winston-Salem, N. C.
- M. D. Field, '24, Atlanta, Ga.
- Wirt DeArmon, '24, Charlotte, N. C.
- C. M. Clarke, '24, Estel, S. C.
- J. H. McConnell, '24, Asheville, N. C.
- Henry Myers, '24, Greensboro, N.C.
- Julius Pitts (pledged) '24, Sumter, S. C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
- W. S. Legare, '24, Charleston, S. C.
- John Briggs, '24, Columbia, S. C.
- Watt McCaine, '24, Lexington, Miss.
- F. W. Law, '24, Rock Hill, S. C.
- F. S. Shaw, '24, Quincy, Fla.
- Elias Faison, '24, Faison, N. C.

Beta Theta Pi:
- E. R. Watt, '24, Reidsville, N. C.
- W. A. McClaim, '24, Sweetwater, Tenn.
- C. T. Overton, '24, Salisbury, N. C.
- J. A. Beaver, '24, Salisbury, N. C.
- Brown, '24, Chattanooga, Tenn.
- Irvin, '24, Reidsville, N. C.
- Parish, '24, Greenwood, Miss.
- Stockard, '24, Raleigh, N. C.
- Brown, '24, Rock Hill, S. C.

Kappa Alpha:
- Dupuy, Jr., '24, Red Springs, N. C.
- Simpson, Jr., '24, Greensboro, N. C.

Bachelors’ Club:
- Herbert Bailey, '22, Greenville, S. C.
- Ed Cunningham, '22, Decatur, Ga.
- K. E. Luckie, '24, Selma, Ala.
- A. C. Keels, '24, Wilmington, N. C.
- R. L. Stowe, '24, Belmont, N. C.
- Martin Foil, '23, Concord, N. C.
- Wallace Moore, '23, Davidson, N. C.
- Ted Jones, '24, Atlanta, Ga.

Diamond Club:
- R. E. Hamrick, '24, Chester, S. C.
- E. M. Peeler, '24, Rockwell, N. C.
- Francis C. Thames, '23, Little Rock, Ark.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

PROGRAM FOR EUMENEAN SOCIETY, JANUARY 22

Debate: Resolved, That moving pictures are at present a menace to a community.
- Affirmative: D. H. Ogden, Jas. McCutcheon, W. M. Cox, R. J. Knight
- Negative: L. W. Dick, Jr., C. F. Wildman, E. Luckie

Declamation: E. E. Houghton
Oration: J. C. McCaskill

Phi Society Program:
- Affirmative: J. H. McKeithan, C. H. Boykin, L. A. Wooten
- Negative: C. N. Morrison, F. C. Thames, R. H. Brown

Extemporaneous Debate:
- G. N. Neel, T. A. Freeman

Declamation:
- W. I. Bradford

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY HOLDS FIRST MEETING OF THE NEW YEAR

The meeting of the Phi Society Thursday night was full of pep, cold weather, and frequent bursts of oratory. Fred
Smith, the first man for the affirmative, stated the query as: Resolved: That in anti-trust legislation labor unions should be
exempt from construction as combinations in restraint of trade. The affirmative brought out the points that this measure would make
the fight between labor and capital equal in every respect; that labor unions are absolutely essential; and that labor is
no article of commerce. Dave Roberts was the leading speaker for the affirmative. With Dunlap leading, the negative brought out
the points that labor unions restrain trade, interfere with general prosperity, and would not be missed if they were destroyed.
The decision was unanimous for the affirmative.

The extemporaneous debate was carried on by two past masters in oratory, namely: Chalmers Long for the affirmative, and J.
Fitzhugh Clark for the negative. The query was: Resolved, that women possess a higher degree of educability than men. Long
gave a brief history of the rise of women throughout the last 400 years and proved they had shown as
high a degree of ability as the best men. Clark based his arguments on his stated belief that women had
not risen at all in the last 400 years. The decision was this time unanimous for the negative.

John Poteat, with his usual flow of eloquence, gave an account of the Hague conferences. The critic also got very
oratorical in his criticism but pronounced the whole meeting a success. After the various committee reports, the society adjourned to
warmer rooms.

A large attendance marked the first meeting of the Eumenean Society in the year nineteen twenty-one. This is also the
first meeting at which the members of the Junior Society have been present with the society proper. The subject for
debate was somewhat staggering to the audience. It read as follows: Resolved, That in anti-trust legislation labor unions should be
exempted from construction as combinations in restraint of trade. Those on the affirmative were Gamble, Tucker, and McGukin; those on
the negative, Lowry, Fraser, and Morris. Three main arguments were presented by each side. In the case of the affirmative,
the entire difference between unions and trusts, the protective nature of unions, and the necessity of unions were brought out.
On the other hand, the negative stressed the similarity of unions and trusts in spirit, dictatorship, and working basis. The
affirmative received the decision. Gus Summers closed the program with an interesting oration on “The Advantages and Disadvantages.”of the Small
College.” We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now. There is that in man, in the meanest masculine heart, which
makes him want to have faith in the beauty of womankind as he would like to have faith in God.

SHORT STORY ISSUE OF MAGAZINE COMES FROM PRESS

The Christmas issue of the Magazine came out on the 5th of January, but this was the fault of the
printers, for they did not get it back in time for distribution before the holidays. This is a short story
issue and contains quite a number of good articles written by the men on the campus. The Magazine contains only
20 pages, but these are well filled and nicely arranged. The editorial management lays the blame for the small size
of the Magazine to those who can write but will not. It is impossible to put out a big Magazine
unless the men will write for it. This issue is divided into three parts: first, the editorial part, which is
followed by the story section. In the back are the jokes, which the business manager has mixed up with his
advertisements, so that the student will read both. The management requests us to say that the next issue will probably
go to press by the last of this month. Anyone who has any contributions for it will please turn them
in at once.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

TOWN NEWS.

The Book Lovers Club met at the home of Mrs. Arbuckle during the past week. Misses Maude Vinson and Julia
Johnston having charge of the program. Mrs. Query will leave this week for her home in Hendersonville. Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Harding, of Charlotte, have been visiting their parents, Dr. and Mrs. Harding during the past week. Misses Lizzie and
Mary Young are visiting friends in New Orleans. Mrs. Shewmake, the mother of Dr. Shewmake, is visiting her son on
Concord Avenue. The Mission Study Class met at Mrs. Black’s home last Thursday morning. All members being present—a good program
was carried out. Miss Kitty Martin has been taken ill with the measles. Dr. Wilson McConnell gave a birthday party
last week, about 20 guests being present. A delicious salad course was served and Progressive games were enjoyed by all
who were present. Wednesday night Coach Grey delightfully entertained his Sunday School class at the home of his father Dr.
and Mrs. Grey.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

TRY IT.

Dearest—
The love I have expressed to you
Is false and I find my indifference towards you
Increases daily. The more I see you the more I dislike you.
I feel myself in every way disposed to
Hate you. I assure you that I never intended to
Love you. Your last conversation has
By no means impressed me with the high standard of your character.
Your temper would make me entirely too unhappy,
And if you and I were united I would expect nothing but the
Hatred of my friends and the everlasting displeasure of being with you. I have indeed a heart
To bestow, but I do not desire you to think it
At your service. I could not give it to any one more
Inconsistent and capricious and be capable of doing justice to my family and myself.
I hope you are aware of the fact that I speak sincerely and I hope you will do me the
favor of
Keeping away from me in the future and not answering this letter as your letters are always full of
Impudence and have not a shadow of wit and good sense.
Believe me I am sorry to say it is impossible for me
To be your affectionate sweetheart.
P.S. I suppose you were inquisitive and read all of my letter. I only intended for you to read every
other line.

KEEP.

Keep to the right as the law directs,
Keep from the world thy friend’s defects;
Keep all thy thoughts on purest themes,
Keep from thine eyes the motes and beams;
Keep true thy deed, thy honor bright,
Keep firm thy faith in good and right;
Keep free from any sin and stain,
Keep from the ways that give thee pain;
Keep free thy tongue from words of ill,
Keep right thy aim and good thy will;
Keep all thy acts from passion free;
Keep strong in hope, no envy see;
Keep watchful ears o’er tongue and hand,
Keep free thy feet by justice stand;
Keep true thy word, a sacred thing,
Keep from the snares the tempters bring;
Keep faith with each you call a friend,
Keep full in view the final end;
Keep love between thy God and thee,
Keep from all hate and malice free;
Keep from thy courage bold and strong,
Keep up the right and down the wrong;
Keep well the words of wisdom’s school
Keep warm by night, and by day keep cool.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

A NEW YEAR REFRAIN.
By W. E. R.

The old year may have been a frost,
With loss ahead of gain,
Perhaps you had to pay the cost
And bear another's pain.
But whether good, or whether bad,
Or whether wrong or right,
That’s all behind you now, my lad,
So tighten your belt and fight!
Out in the night the way may lead
Your feet to a murky mire;
But struggle on and keep your speed,
Returning fire for fire.
The past is gone and can’t come back,
The future glitters light—
So switch onto the open track—
And tighten your belt and fight!
The way was dark, and you lost the prize,
Though you fought with all your heart;
But he, my boy, was twice your size,
And, too, he had a start!
The New Year says go play the game
With courage, grit, and might.
The fight, old man, will not be tame,
SO TIGHTEN YOUR BELT AND FIGHT!
--Emory Wheel.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

The student council at Simpson College, Iowa, has adopted the honor system. Simmons College, Tex., is another institution where the
same system has been adopted. In the latter school, the vote was 448 to 40.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES
PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN

ATHLETIC OUTFITTERS
NEW YORK
The Macamac Company Agents

The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY

Have those old shoes made new by the
SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
MARTIN, Manager
