Onward and Upward

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Carry On, Fellow Students

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 2, 1921. No. 13

Fire Destroys Historic Chambers

Plans For New And Better Chambers Already Begun

New Dormitory, Heating Plant, Class Rooms, and Laboratory Planned at Meeting Wednesday.

Before the ashes of old Chambers had given up their glow, while the weather-worn brick were still hot from the effects of the terrible conflagration which will forever be a vivid picture in the minds of the present students of Davidson, even before the flames had ceased to curl about the smouldering bits of timber, plans were set on foot for the building of an appropriate edifice on that same site selected by the founders of this institution many years ago for the building which was destined to become the center of all college activities, and around which Davidson traditions were to cluster for many decades.

The first step was taken while the flames were mounting high about the falling roof of the old building. The last futile effort had been made to save Chambers from total destruction, every bit of furnishings and personal property which was within reach had been removed from the burning structure, and there remained naught but to silently watch the fast disappearance of the massive hall. A call came from President Martin and the student body assembled, the determination in their countenances being vividly brought out by the light of the flames.

Dr. Martin appealed to the students of Davidson to make the terrible disaster a thing of inspiration, and to take this opportunity to make the old college a “bigger and better Davidson.” He asked that the students stand behind the faculty as one man and that their courage never flag. With heads bared, and with the fire of determination in their spirits, the body sang “O Davidson.”

A meeting of the faculty was called at 9:30 o’clock on Monday and plans were discussed for taking care of the homeless students, and for continuing the work of the college with the least possible interruption. At 10:30 o’clock the student body gathered in Shearer Hall, for the purpose of meeting the matter squarely and to take definite steps for the continuance of college activities and studies. Speeches were made by faculty members, and students sounded a note of optimism and determination which immediately removed any possible doubt that the affairs of the college would go on as though nothing had happened.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees was summoned by President Martin. They convened in the president’s office in the forenoon of Wednesday, and the meeting was continued through the afternoon. These men took the matter in hand and nothing will be left undone to place Davidson in a condition that will equal that of a week ago, and even to forge ahead in a campaign of improvement.

The Executive Committeemen who were in attendance were: Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va.; Dr. L. T. Wilds, Lexington, N. C.; Mr. R. A. Dunn, Charlotte; Mr. H. N. Pharr, Gastonia; and Mr. John P. Allison, Concord.

Definite plans for the rebuilding of Chambers, or for the erection of new buildings, are still in the course of formation, but every effort will (Continued on page 8)

Chambers As She Did Look.

Facts And Figures On Chambers Building Taken From History Of Davidson College

Construction Of Building Was Architectural Triumph in Early Days and Structure Was Great to The Day of Its Loss

The following facts and figures about Chambers building were taken from the History of Davidson College, compiled in 1920 by Miss Cornelia Shaw, Librarian, and presented to the college by her:

“As soon as the Chambers legacy was available, the trustees began to plan for the new building. The nearest railroad at that time was 20 miles away. This fact made the collection of stone, mortar and timber a difficult task. The foundation was laid with stone and the bricks were made from clay on the college land and were fired in kilns built on the campus.”the Concord road, and in the Rocky River community. The lime was mined at Little Mountain, across the Catawba River. The heavy timbers were cut at Huntersville, while the planed lumber, coming from South Carolina, was shipped to Charlotte by train and hauled by teams to Davidson. The bricks were made, burned where the railroad water tank now stands. The foundation and pillar stones were quarried at Mt. Mourne, at Lover’s Leap.

The length of the building is 279 feet and its height, where crowned by the cupola, is 95 feet. The splendid columns which make the building distinctive in southern college architecture were a great undertaking. The building was erected by J. N. Scofield, of Davidson. The imposing and perhaps the largest college structure in the state.

(Continued on page 8)

Building Chambers Building Empty Shell of Former Majesty Dead Walls said Four Massive Columns Only Remaining Vestige of Grand Old Structure.

Entailing a money loss of over $250,000 and an inestimable loss in subjective valuation of one of the South’s most historic college buildings, Davidson College was deprived of the old Chambers building by fire early Monday morning. The fire was discovered shortly before 5:00 o’clock and the alarm given at once; but the flames traveled rapidly and were soon beyond the control of the bucket brigade which was hastily formed by students and townspeople. Of the estimated $250,000, $100,000 was covered by insurance.

In the building were the department of physics, including a lecture room and several laboratories, equipped with many very expensive instruments; the museum; an old library; five classrooms, and the dormitories on the north and south wings of the building accommodating about 135 students. Due to quick work by a group of students and Dr. Douglas, much valuable equipment was rescued from the physics laboratory. One irreplaceable and incalculable loss was that of the old library, which was located on the second floor. In this library were kept many volumes of inestimable value. In the museum were geological and biological specimens of rare interest.

Many students saved practically all of their personal belongings by hastily thrusting their clothes into their trunks, rolling these trunks down the stairs or throwing them out of the windows, and then throwing their books, bed clothes, and other belongings out of the windows to those waiting below to remove them to safety. Students from other dormitories rendered their unlucky brothers much aid by entering different rooms and saving all they could. Those who roomed next to the stairways were unable to save much, due to the fact that their rooms were the first to be attacked by the flames. The ones who roomed in the north wing were also hampered because this wing had only one stairway, which was soon a mass of flames. Many boys were forced to climb to safety from the windows and in doing this J. I. McKeithen fell from the third floor, receiving only a slight injury, however.

As the fire was dying down a bugler sounded assembly, and the students, coming from all directions, some clad only in pajamas and bathrobes, lined up in a body. Dr. W. J. Martin made a ringing address, declaring that the spirit that had made Davidson one of the strongest colleges of the South would assert itself in the midst of the catastrophe and that an even greater Davidson would arise from the ashes of the old Chambers building. He then called for a meeting of the faculty for 9:30 and of the student body for 10:30 o'clock, and stated that there would be no interruption of classes after Monday. He also said that arrangements would be made immediately for the housing of the unfortunates. After Dr. Martin’s address, which was heartily applauded, the students stood with bared heads, singing “O Davidson” as an indication of their fervid college spirit and loyalty.

The student body rally in Shearer (Continued on page 6)