THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921.

Doctors Martin and Hood attended a meeting in Greensboro last week, called by the State Department of Education. The purpose of the meeting was two-fold: the presidents of the colleges to discuss the demonstration question, common to all the colleges in the state, in regards to entrance requirements and scholarships; the professors of education to receive instruction in their new work as high school inspectors. Dr. Hood is high school inspector of Mecklenburg, Iredell, and Cabarrus counties.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent JEW Phillips 75 Chambers

The fellow who wins is the one who can come back after every blow—the man who can stand the punishment and come up smiling every time—the one who increases his determination as the resistance to his purpose increases and holds on to his invincible faith in himself and the ultimate success of his efforts. The power of will and even temperament which are exercised under the most trying conditions often measure the difference between success and failure. When you are fighting the battles of life and business, it is not alone the natural opposition you are struggling with—but SELF, the one individual you must be able to CONQUER and dictate to at all times.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

The attendance at the mid-week Bible classes fell off some last week, there being a total attendance of only 253 against 205 the week before last. That is only 50 percent attendance. Some floors are reporting 100 percent. What's the matter with your floor? Can’t you bring it up next time? The attendance on the different floors was as follows:
Whites, 8.
La., 10.
Ga. 1, 18.
Ga. 2, 126
W., 1, 13.
W. 2, 14.
W. 3, 14.
E. Rumple 1, 8.
E. Rumple 2, 9.
E. Rumple 3, 7.
W. Rumple, 1, 0.
W. Rumple 2, 11.
W. Rumple 3, 0.
N. Barracks 1, 10.
N. Barracks 2, 10.
N. Chambers 1, 14.
N. Chambers 2, 1.
N. Chambers 3, 18.
S. Chambers 1, 10.
S. Chambers 2, 9.
S. Chambers 3, 13.

ELON COLLEGE OFFICIALLY ADOPTS NEW SONG
(By N. C. P. A.)
Elon, N. C, Oct. 3—At a meeting of the students of Elon College last Friday evening, a song, the words of which were written by Mr. S. M. Lynam, a member of the Sophomore class, was presented to the students and unanimously adopted by them as the official college song. The words express in beautiful terms the Elon spirit, athletic, co-educational, and otherwise, and are suitable to be sung not only at athletic games but on more solemn occasions. The song will be set to music and published in sheet form in the near future. The words are as follows:

Under 'Neath Maroon and Gold.
Never college gave to mankind
Fairer women, braver men;
Never did their hearts beat truer
Than did hearts of Elon, when
On the field for college glory
Fellows that are clean and bold
Give their best and fight their hardest
Under 'Neath Maroon and Gold.
Through the four long years of college,
Through the brighter, darker days,
Men and women work together
Learning each some gentler ways
Learning too, of love's best meaning,
As the years of life unfold,
Till, perchance, two lives be blended
Under 'Neath Maroon and Gold.
When the snows of many winters
Leave their whiteness in our hair,
We will sit and talk together
And she'll be so young and fair
To the eyes that learned to love her
In the days then growing old,
That we'll whisper, “Lo! I found you
Under 'Neath Maroon and Gold.”
—Sion M. Lynam.

James Black went to Lewisburg, W. Va. last week to see his brother William, who was hurt in a football game.

Get Your STATIONERY
A complete line of Highland Linen writing paper

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON

CLOTHES
The South's largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
The Ben Vonde Co.
See their agent: W. Yonan 12 Chambers

Dr. E. W. Sykes, president of Coker College, will be the speaker at the “Y” service on Sunday evening. Dr. Sykes comes to Davidson recommended as a man’s man. A graduate of Wake Forest, where he played varsity football for four years, he served his Alma Mater for several years as dean; then, entering politics, he was state representative from Anson County for two sessions, until he left the legislature to take up his duties at Coker. Dr. Sykes is described by one of his friends as “a man whose personality grips you.” Not a preacher but a Christian man.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS STIRRING TALK BY McGUKIN

An unusually good meeting of the Ministerial Band was held in Shearer Hall Sunday afternoon at one-thirty. The meeting was very interesting as well as instructive. B. McGukin gave a very impressive talk on the field. He took his text from John.

N. C. C. W. CELEBRATES FOUNDERS’ DAY

Leonard Dick is to be given the credit for his big part in the Davidson and Wake Forest game in Charlotte last Saturday.

Say it with Flowers
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men

NEW YORK CAFE
We serve the best and freshest meats on the market.
Fountain Service
MAIN STREET
MOORSVILLE, N. C.Wo 1864, a year centered around the comparison of the business man and the preacher, He F (By NI a Sob SD j ; SC H O L I Z, the Florist young man sees them—Dr. Sykes is still young—gives him the power to make his talk practicable by showing Dr. Clase. Ataddery, cOneRN One Charlotte, N. C. Ages etronle talk each one of us that there was a field for every one of God’s children. He Secretary of the Board of Missions. DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS unnally, Hollingsworth Davidson men are more than fortunate in having Dr. Sykes as a guest Sunday, and are expected to give him a true Davidson Welcome. The meeting over to the business part of the program. Mr. Patterson made the motion that the band should have insignia on it. This motion was carried with the Mizpah benediction.

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Outline of Acts through ninth chapter.

First Section—Chapter 1, 6:7; Church Established in Jerusalem.
1. Acts 1:13-26—Picture of the little company before Pentecost.
2. Acts 2:1-41—The Gift of the Holy Spirit.
3. Acts 2:42-47—The Character of the New Community.
4. Acts 3:1-4:35—The Church Refuses the Sanhedrin and Sets Up An Independent Spiritual Guidance.
5. Acts 4:36-5:16—The Church is Holy and Sacred.
6. Acts 5:17-42—The Church is Divinely Endowed and Encouraged.
7. Acts 6:1-7—The Church Overcomes Internal Difficulties.

Second Section—Chapter 6:8; 9:43—The Witnesses Move Out of Jerusalem Towards Foreigners.
1. Acts 6:8-15—Stephen Preaches to Grecian Jews.
2. Acts 7:1-60—Stephen’s Apology and Death.
3. Acts 8:1-40—Philip Preaches in Samaria.
4. Acts 9:1-31—Conversion of Saul.
5. Acts 9:32-43—As the Gospel Grows Broader, Miracles Grow Greater. (To be continued.)

Our first wave of reviews left only disaster in its path as it swept unmercifully over us last week. We wish to congratulate those who were fortunate enough not to get “shot,” though we know the number is small. The heaviest casualties were in Bible and physics, which completely exploded the idea held by many that physics was a “crip.” However, there’s always something to be glad for in the darkest hour, but what can it be this time? Those of us who have been going to the post office twice a day only to find the dust getting thicker in our boxes, may rest assured that there will be a thick letter in there in a day or two. Just write back and tell him the first month’s marks are always low because we haven't gotten straightened out in our work, but that you will do better next time. You still have a chance to make good if you will buckle right down to work. Better luck next month, fellows!

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. A. L. Faul, Mgr. You know them. Phone 902

In the afternoon the regular meeting of the Alumnae Association was held in the Hut, and in the evening the faculty-students reception was given in the society halls.

POLITY CLUB COMMITTEES NAMED FOR YEAR’S WORK

One of the most interesting and educational features of the college life, outside of class work, is the Polity Club which meets at intervals of about three weeks, and discusses the current events of the day, along with other very interesting subjects. This club does not consist of the student body as a whole, but only a few Juniors and Seniors who are especially interested in political science and economics. Mr. A. C. Summers is proving himself a worthy president of this organization. A meeting held the night of September 27th was the first meeting this year. However, it was a regular business meeting and little time was to be had for discussion of events. President Summers appointed the following committees: Program Committee, J. H. McKeithen and L. A. Taylor; Membership Committee, W. R. Booth, J. S. Curry and E. B. McGukin; Absence Committee, J. R. Jones and T. A. Lacy. The most important of the current events were read and after a short, but very interesting discussion, the club adjourned to meet again October 10th.

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, accompanied by Fred Smith and George Neal, visited the community of Steele Creek Sunday.

This Space Reserved for Piedmont Theatre

GOOD FOOD SERVED QUICKLY AT VERY MODERATE PRICES

20 W. TRADE CHARLOTTE, N. C.

I. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance. He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Notary Public and at your service.