THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921.

Cunningham vs. Myers.
Ormond vs. Fraser.
Wilkinson vs. Murray.
Bradley vs. Trotter.

VETERANS OF OLD HICKORY DIVISION

Men of the Old Hickory Association, veterans of the Thirtieth Division, which three years ago was pounding away at the German strongholds in France, will again march in review before General Pershing at their third annual reunion, to be held in Nashville, Tenn., on November 4th and 5th. In fact, it is probable that Marshal Foch, generalissimo of all the Allied armies, who has been invited to accompany General Pershing to Nashville, will also be in the reviewing stand.

The parade of the veterans, however, will form but a part of the full reunion program. Men who billeted in French villages or battlefield shelters three years ago will find the homes of Nashville opened to them. Plans have been made to house and care for not less than 10,000 veterans and more if they should come.

Convention sessions will be held in the Auditorium, with a capacity of 7,000. Dances and other social features enough to give every man who comes an opportunity to enjoy himself, are being arranged for by the host of the occasion, the citizens of Nashville.

Separate headquarters for each of the regiments of the division will be established in Nashville, and in the billeting arrangements it is planned, as far as possible, to put men out of the same outfits in the same section of the city. There will be all sorts of opportunities for the veterans to renew old friendships and make new ones.

THE SECRET OF SUCCESS

Some one has said, “The great secret of success lies in recognizing an opportunity and taking advantage of it.” Opportunities present themselves to you daily. Do you take advantage of them?

Most of us will spend the greater part of Saturday in Charlotte. This will afford an excellent opportunity to pick out an overcoat and a hat for winter. Are you going to take advantage of this opportunity and thereby save an extra trip to the city?

Would you like to take a trip through the largest men’s clothing establishment in the Carolinas? Here is your opportunity. You can kill two birds with one stone. Ed. Mellon's is the largest men’s clothing establishment in the Carolinas, has the best line of stock to choose from, and has salesmen who know how to give you a correct fit. Go there for your winter overcoat and hat.

Probably you are not ready to buy yet. That doesn’t matter. Don’t let a perfectly good opportunity of looking over what is being worn slide by. Make a mental photograph now for future reference—Adv.

BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

“After Every Meal”
WRIGLEY’S

WELL KNOWN ALUMNUS SPEAKS TO GEOLOGY STUDENTS

Dr. William A. Price, 1909, was on the hill for a few days last week. While here he lectured to the class in Geology on the importance of the study. After his graduation here in 1909, Dr. Price went to Johns Hopkins where he received his Ph.D. degree in Geology in 1913. He was then Professor of Geology in the University of West Virginia, until the late war. During the war he worked under the direction of the Bureau of Mines in manufacturing munitions until June 12, 1918. Then he enlisted in the army as a private. He was discharged on December 11, 1918. He is now a first lieutenant in the Reserve Corps. Late in the summer of 1918, General Pershing called for six geologists and Dr. Price was one of those called but the armistice came before the arrangements were made for his transfer. Dr. Price is now doing exploration work for the Standard Oil Company in Mexico.

MR. JOHN McINTIRE, '94, PASSES TO GREAT BEYOND

A recent death of interest to the Alumni is that of John McIntire of the class of 1894. He is remembered by his college mates for his unusual wit and popularity. His Junior oration was a masterpiece of oratory and gained him much distinction at the time. For the past 11 years Mr. McIntire was division sales manager for the state of North Carolina, of the American Multigraph Sales Co. He made a splendid success in this business and was very highly thought of by the officers and men of the company. Two years ago, this October, he married a western girl, Miss Maude Camp, of Indianapolis. About a year ago he was taken ill and never fully recovered. He passed away quietly at his home in Greensboro, N.C.A year ago he was operated on for gallstones. His sickness continued and developed into a form of progressive paralysis. Last January, his relatives brought him to his home in Wilmington, N.C., hoping that the change in climate and proximity to his family and old friends might be beneficial. His case, however, was hopeless, and the best his relatives could hope for was to make his passing as easy as possible. He was told by his family physician, an old Davidson classmate, Dr. Andrew Harris, that he could not recover, but he still fought and would not give up. However, the grim reaper came at last, and John McIntire was called away to a greater life above. He was a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, was affiliated with the Masons, and was an ardent and active Rotarian. In Indianapolis, he was on the Rotary Entertainment Committee and had previously been president of the Dal- Columbia Seminary this year. He will graduate next spring.

J. C. Harper, ’15, is with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, of Winston-Salem, N.C.

M. Fred Toms, ex-’22, is in the real estate business with his father in Asheville. He spent a day on the hill last week while en route to Wilmington, N.C.

Cecil Gilchrist, ex-’22, who is with the Hood Brick Company of Charlotte, had one of the best displays at the “Made in Carolinas” exhibit.

R. Hays Bennett, M.A., '17, is the physical director of the Y.M.C.A. in Raleigh, N.C.

Hilley Martin, ex-'24, is taking a course in engineering at Pennsylvania State this year.

Dr. W. Gilmer Perry, ’98, professor of English at Georgia Tech, is recuperating in Charlotte after an operation.

Rev. O. E. Buchholz, ’09, has been added to the faculty of The Assembly’s Training School in Richmond, Va. He will teach missions and personal work and develop the extension department, which will include correspondence courses in the Bible and in practical methods of Christian work. Professor Buchholz is a native of Dalton, Ga., and has had several years of experience as a pastor.

Harry P. Grier, of Statesville, N.C., county engineer for Iredell and Alexander counties, has been appointed district engineer for the Asphalt Association, the national paving organization. He will make his headquarters in Raleigh and, in the near future, will begin regular visits to this and nearby cities for the purpose of assisting the local street and road officials in solving their paving problems. The Asphalt Association, the headquarters of which are in New York, is largely composed of the great oil producers who recognize asphalt to be one of petroleum’s most useful products. The association is employing some of the best highway engineering talent in the country to aid in developing the most successful and economical types of paving.

Rev. George L. Cooper, '17, has removed from Elkton, Va., to Graham, N.C.

Mrs. O. J. Thies returned the first of the week from Statesville and Winston-Salem.

J. E. Pennbacker, former chief economist of the United States Bureau of Public Roads, is secretary of the association, and Provost Hubbard, former chief of the Research Division, United States Bureau of Public Roads, and a chemical engineer of renown, is one of its specialists in road construction. Mr. Grier is one of the most successful and widely known engineers in the area.

Gloria Swanson visits us in “The Great Moment.” “The Great Moment,” featuring Gloria Swanson as Nadine Pelham and Milton Sills as Bayard Delaval, shown in the gym last Saturday night, furnished an evening of enjoyable entertainment for a large audience of students and townspeople. Eustace, who Sir Edward Pelham, a rich mining capitalist, has selected as a husband for his daughter Nadine, goes with them from England to America on a mining trip. Out in Nevada, Nadine meets Mayard Delaval and falls in love with him. One afternoon while they are out riding, Nadine is snake-bitten. Delaval administers the first aid remedy to her. When they do not return to the hotel, Sir Edward and Eustace go to seek them. They are found in a cottage to which Delaval had taken her. Because of a misunderstanding, Sir Edward tells Delaval to take his daughter in marriage and, without waiting for an explanation, he and Eustace immediately leave for Canada. Delaval and Nadine are married. The next morning, Nadine has only a faint recollection of the events of the preceding night. Because of her seemingly cool indifference towards Delaval, he secures a divorce. Nadine goes to Washington, where Mr. Hopper, a millionaire, falls in love with her. Her father comes to Washington and finds her there. Wishing to prevent her marriage to Hopper, he wires for Delaval to come, who arrives the day before she is to marry Hopper. She finally decides that Delaval is her true “knight” and, to the satisfaction of all except Hopper, marries him. Music furnished by Buchanan, Hollingsworth, Steele, and Northrop added greatly to the program. Because of the football game in Charlotte next Saturday, a picture will very likely be shown on Friday night.

Tennis players advance through second matches. The outcome of the second round was as follows:
- Cunningham defeated Kretchmar, 6-3; 6-2.
- Myers defeated Price, 6-4; 2-6; 9-7.
- Ormond defeated White, 6-0; 7-5.
- Fraser defeated Jones, 6-2; 3-6; 8-6.
- Wilkinson defeated Gamble, 6-1; 6-3.
- Murrey defeated Patterson, 6-1; 7-5.
- Bradley defeated Hunter, 6-0; 6-1.
- Trotter defeated Currey, 6-1; 6-4.

Matches to be played off this week are as follows: