Welcome, Doctor Lacy

THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Tackle Tarheels Tenaciously

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

Students Hear Fine Address on Purpose

Rev. Locke White Makes Strong Impression on Davidson Men.

The students of Davidson had the pleasure of hearing Rev. Locke White, of the class of '13, give an interesting
and well worthwhile address last Sunday at the “Y” service, on the subject, “A Young Man’s Purpose.” Using as his
text the verse, “Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself,” it was shown that a college
man’s difficulties and problems are very similar to those of Daniel when he was taken into captivity. Daniel was leaving
home for the first time and was placed in entirely new environments. None of the people with whom he came
in contact were Christians. But Daniel, with his courage and true heart, determined that he would not “while in Rome
do as Rome does,” and purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. Just as it took courage
then to live up to his resolutions, so it takes courage today to stand up for the right in spite
of adverse conditions. Moreover, because Daniel did right, three others, who lacked enough courage alone to be the true type
of men, followed the leadership of Daniel. And today weaker brothers will follow good examples if the strong will but
set the pace.

Charles Kingsley divides all mankind into three classes: First, are the heroes, those who intend to do right and do
it. Second, are “the white fools,” those who wish to do right but lack the courage to brave the criticisms
of men. Third, are “the black fools,” those who willfully choose to do evil. In which class are you, the
speaker asked. Although the majority of people are in one of the two latter classes, and those of the first
class might lose friends by taking the stand they do, yet in the long run they are really respected by
even their enemies, said Mr. White. The following poem brought the address to a fitting close:

One ship drives east and another west
With the selfsame winds that blow;
'Tis the set of the sails and not the gales
That decides the way they go.
Just so it is on the sea of fate
As we travel along through life;
’Tis the set of the soul that decides the goal
And not the storm or strife.

A quartet composed of Sorrels, Allison, Crane, and Buchanan added a great deal to the musical side of the program,
the fellows singing “The Riches of Love.”

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

“An’ tegither, at the ‘wed scrap Saturday. Lookout, Tarheels!”

Battalion and Company Sponsors for the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit. Left to right: Miss Sophie Richards, for “A”
Company; Miss Helen Gibbs, for “B” Company; Miss Orrie Steele, for the Battalion; Miss Dorothy Finlayson, for “C” Company; Miss
Eloise Martin, for “D” Company.

Davidson Makes Merry On 2nd Charlotte Trip

Monster Parade Staged on Arrival in the Queen City.

With that ole “go get ’em spirit,” the thing that makes Wildcats wild, and with grit, enthusiasm, and the determination
to unfurl the “Red and Black” over Wearn Field, a train load of Davidsonians embarked last Saturday for the Queen
City. A parade was formed at the Southern station in Charlotte and, marshalled by Sam Story, the entire aggregation marched
through the main business thoroughfares of the city. Drum Major Wyman, in pomp and glory, led the renowned Davidson Military
Band at the head of the column, and to the strains of ‘O Davidson,’ the presence of the Presbyterians was
proclaimed to the most remote corners of the city. At the Square 15 ‘rahs’ were given for the Queen City
and, after several yells for their favored eleven, the body dispersed to various places of interest.

The Davidsonians, as far as was possible, collected as a unit at Wearn Field and throughout the game, lent their
every effort to the support of the fighting Wildcats. At times their enthusiasm became uncontrollable, and in the tenseness of
the last few moments of play, they deserted the stands and surged to the sidelines for a better ‘squint’ at
the movements of the Wildcats. The Presbyterians became ubiquitous at the close of the game, and it was not till
the conductor of the ‘Wildcat special’ shouted the final ‘all aboard’ that they were again congregated.

It was not a matter of particular effort, however, to spot the Davidsonians, in the Saturday night throng that filled
the streets. On the lapel of each coat was an indication of the wearer’s alma mater; a little emblem that
brought a feeling of pride to student and alumnus alike. Pinned thereon was a combination of ribbon which distinctly branded
the wearer as a student of Davidson. It was the Red and Black, the colors for which Coach Grey’s athletes
had so nobly fought, and which were flying high over Wearn Field.

PROGRAM OF EXERCISES DAVIDSON COLLEGE DAY.

Music Band
Invocation Rev. R. A. White
Remarks President W. J. Martin
Recent Achievements of Alumni Dr. J. W. MacConnell
Necrology of the Year Professor J. L. Douglas
Two-Minute Pause as a Memorial to America’s Nameless Soldiers in France:
Solo Mr. William H. Neel
Address Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D.
Music Band

Davidson Adds New Feature for Readers

Semi-Comic Addition to Front Page Begins Today.

This week’s paper inaugurates a new feature for The Davidsonian known as the “Wildcat Screams” which will occupy the lower
left-hand corner of the first page, balancing the weekly calendar. It will correspond to “Abe Martin,” “Jo Jo” and other
such semi-comic sections which adorn the pages of many of our daily papers. Under the picture of a Wildcat in
his most ferocious posture, drawn by Rolston Bitzer, there will appear each week quaint and terse sayings of humor and
of timely interest. J. H. McKeithen is in charge of the new feature and will be glad to have any
suitable contributions.

Speaking - Drilling Armistice Day Program

Davidson College Day and Armistice Day to Share Honors.

The R. O. T. C. will play a large part in the Armistice Day celebration this year. The battalion will
have as its guest of honor the Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion. In addition to the many speeches that
will be made the battalion will go through many maneuvers and each company will have a special part to play
in the program. There will be strong competition for the “flag of honor,” which will be given to that company
which, in the opinion ofThe judges perform and execute their exercises best. Each company will have a sponsor for whom
it is working. The sponsors will be with their company during the program, and the sponsor of the winning company
will carry the “flag of honor.” Competition will be great as each company has been training for these special performances
for the past three weeks. The sponsors are: Miss Steele for the battalion; Miss Sophie Richards for Company A, Captain
J. M. Richards, commanding; Miss Helen Gibbs for Company B, Captain T. M. Lowry, commanding; Miss Dorothy Finlayson for Company
C, Captain R. R. McIlwaine, commanding; and Miss Eloise Martin for Company D, Captain P. D. Miller, commanding.

J. C. McCaskill, ’21, is not teaching school at Concord, N. C., but is in charge of the boys’ work
department of the Y. M. C. A. there. As a sideline, he is coaching the Concord High School football team.

Basketball Contests Hold Attention of All Students
Seniors and Freshmen Take Sophs Into Camp

On the night of Tuesday, October 25th, the Seniors defeated the Sophs in one of the most hotly contested class
basketball games yet seen on the local gym court. Preceding the game, it seemed as though the very air was
charged with electricity resulting from rivalry existing between the supporters of the two teams. The Seniors had the edge on
their younger opponents resulting from longer experience and continued success, while the Sophs had the confidence resulting from not having,
so far, lost a game.

The two teams in the first half, under the able leadership of Captains McConnell and Ormond, played a “nip and
tuck” game, neither side being able to lead the other by more than one point. A goal by the Sophs
was but a signal for the Senior stars to basket one, and basket one they did, just as sure as
the Sophs led the way. As a result, the score at the end of the first period of play was
13 to 12. The Seniors opened the second half with a rush that completely swamped their gamely fighting opponents. With
lightning-like passing and adroit shooting, the older brothers soon piled up a score that made all hope of victory for
the Sophs a dim possibility. When the timekeeper’s whistle finally blew signaling the end of the game, the score stood
30-18 with the Seniors on the long end.

Seniors. Position. Sophs.
Ormond (C) (8) -- -- -- -- -- Elkins (6) Left Forward
Doubles (12) -- -- -- -- -- McPherson (1) Right Forward
Freeman (6) -- -- -- -- -- McConnell (9) Center
Neel (2) -- -- -- -- -- Charnley (0) Right Guard
Price (2) -- -- -- -- -- Myers (2) Left Guard

Referee: Coach Hengeveld.

Fresh vs. Sophs

Last Friday night in the gym, the Freshmen, by playing a good defensive game, were able to hold the more
experienced Soph team to 11 points while they ran up 29. Both teams played hard, but the Sophs could not
seem to get together in their usual style and the Fresh played an especially good game. Staley and Morrison played
best for the Fresh five, while McConnell played the best game for the Sophs. Substitutions: Mitchell (4) for Beall; McPherson
for McConnell. Referee: George Mauze. Scorekeeper: E. H. Mauze.

State and Wildcats Struggle to 3-3 Tie
Wearn Field in Charlotte Scene of Terrific Battle Saturday

Fighting with a grim determination that surprised even their staunchest supporters, the Davidson Wildcats met, held like the Rock of
Gibraltar, and finally fought back the wolfpack from N. C. State. Although the game ended in a 3-3 deadlock, the
cat clan showed an unquestioned superiority over ancient Canine foes.

Too much credit cannot be given to the Little Electric Machine. For the Davidson eleven did a memorable thing on
Saturday. Through sheer spirit, through indomitable determination, through utter willingness to give the final measure of fight that was in
them, those men of Davidson lifted from the muck a bedraggled, bedaubed Red and Black banner, holding it so high
that it floated and snapped proudly once more in the light of duty well done. It was fine. It meant
more—that tie—it stood for more than the mere tying of one of the strongest teams in the state. The elements
that won that victory, for in a very true sense it was a victory, were ones of which any college
should be proud. In the matter of Saturday’s game, this applies to those who, filled with a sense of foreboding,
assembled nonetheless hundreds upon hundreds to cheer and sing for Davidson.

“I don’t know that we can hold State,” said a prominent student a few hours before the game. “Privately I
don’t think we can. But you may count on this: not a man of Davidson will yield today till he
is carried from the field.” That was the spirit which won for Davidson from a team better equipped to play
a finished brand of football, against a more experienced team, against a team that outweighed her ten pounds to the
man.

The Machine hit on all eleven cylinders Saturday. Seven of those in the Thin Red Line stood up against the
heavier State line and exchanged blow for blow with them. As usual, Captain La Far played a great game, but
the same can be said of every man in the line. They were all in the thick of the fight
and seemed to enjoy the ceaseless hammering of the State backs. There were stars aplenty in the backfield. The slippery,
elusive sneaks of Moore and the pile-driving blows of Shepherd coupled with the bullet-like passes from the hurtling McFadden and
(Continued on page 2)

WHAT'S DOING

Monday—7:15 p.m., Junior Phi Society.
Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi and Eu Societies.
Friday—Armistice and Davidson Day.
11:30 a.m., Exercises in Shearer Hall. Principal speaker, Dr. B. R. Lacy.
2:30 p.m., R. O. T. C. Stunt Drills.
Saturday—3:00 p.m., Wildcats vs. Carolina at Winston.
Sunday—10 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service. Dwight Chalmers.
Tuesday—7:15 p.m., Junior Eu Society.
Wednesday—9 p.m., Bible Classes.

(Continued on page 5)

YOU ARE NEEDED IN WINSTON!
