2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

Athletic News

Large Squad of Track Men Now Practicing Hard

Many Promising New Men Furnishing Keen Competition for Six of Last Year’s Veterans

The infielders have just been called out and there has not been time to see who will most likely land
berths around the diamond. However, Eris Cassell will be fighting all opposition around the hot corner. “Frog” Cassell, who so
ably held the short-stop position, will not be here this spring, thereby leaving “Mac” Erwin and “Billy” Hodgin strong contenders
for this opening. “Pee-Wee” Ratchford has already stated that the man who beats him out of the mid-way position is
going to work mighty hard. “Doug” McArn, who ran wild around the initial sack last season, departed with the good
ship ‘20, but John Barnette, who was another star on the Cornelius nine last summer, will probably succeed “Doug.” From
the men who are back this year, and the men who are here for the first time, Davidson is hoping
to put out a team that will bring home the bacon. With Coach Hengeveld as coach, and the co-operation of
every man on the hill, there’s no reason why this year’s nine should not be a winner.

Revenge is Sweet: 55 to 11.

The Wildcats literally ran around the High School girls went into action against the strong Greensboro team. Greensboro’s 30-22 victory
over Charlotte the night before was but one in a long, unbroken string of successes. The avalanche of counters completely
smothered the Queen City lads and wiped out the lingering memory of that 32 to 24 defeat some six weeks
ago.

The best that the visiting forwards could do, under Schenck’s and Crawford’s guarding, was to ring up a goal apiece
while Howell at center caged two.

Roberts again figured prominently in the scoring, running up a total of 32 points. He completely ran away from the
two guards put on him.

Of course, everyone knows a Wildcat can fight, but did you ever hear of one running? Well, they can. If
you want proof, journey out to Sprunt Field some afternoon and you will be thoroughly convinced. The big oval encircling
the “Cat's playground” is getting some good pounding from the members of the Wildcat chapter of the B. V. D.
fraternity. The track has been put in good condition and the only thing it needs is pounding, and it is
getting plenty of that. With the weather getting warm again, “the knights of the cinder circuit” are out in full
force and the prospects are bright for having the best team that Davidson ever put out. “Wooly” Grey is coaching
the team and has already demonstrated that he knows his job. Coach still holds the records for the shot and
discus, and for many seasons he was the mainstay of the team. Leonard Dick is the captain of this year’s
team and although he refused the reporter an interview, the broad smile that he wears fully indicates that he is
satisfied with the material on hand. Six letter men have returned and Coach will use them for a nucleus around
which to build his team. They are: Captain Dick, who steps the middle distances; Gentry, who takes his time in
the high and broad jumps; McLeod, who throws the shot and discus away; and Worth, Sprunt, and Fricker, the tireless
trio who gallop around the oval four or eight times at a stretch. From this, it will be seen that
there is a plentiful supply of distance men while the team.

Tonight finds the team in Charlotte where they will engage the Wofford five from Spartanburg. The lads from the Palmetto
State will host out to even the defeat registered against them last year on their home floor, and a hot
game may be expected.

The best comparative score would be that of the University of Florida. Whereas we romped off with a 45 to
26 victory over the far-south lads; Wofford bowed down to them by a 45 to 35 score.

The closing whistle blew with Davidson still apparently not disheartened by the overwhelming odds. The final score was 37-3.

The two outstanding features of the game were the almost perfect work of the Greensboro guards who prevented Davidson from
ringing a single field goal, and the wonderful goal shooting of Miss Stinett who during the contest tallied 27 points.
The whole Davidson team did their best, crippled as they were by the absence of Miss Potts from the line-up.
Miss Moore put up the best game for the home team. The line-up follows:

Saturday finds a curious combination on the hill. Women, Tigers,—and as the occasion is Junior Speaking—there will probably be plenty
of rain.

Speaking of Sports

A large number of men of excellence. Their tuneful syncopations, pleasing harmonies, and side-bursting comedy sketches all found their appropriate
appreciation in the hearts of the ardent listeners. “Jap,” the Jazz orchestra, the mandolin and guitar equally did their part
in bringing the performance over in well-rounded style. The entire program was full of the old Davidson pep and melody.
After the concert, the club wended their way back to “the hill.”

Established 1678

A. B. Feiting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.

Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

213 N. Liberty Street

BALTIMORE, MD.

HIPPLE CONCERT CO.

(Continued from page 1)

Their esprit de corps was very noticeable. Every member of the company seemed to be on the alert at all
times to support the others. No less pleasing was the admixture of a few vocal imitations, here and there—they were
especially helpful in the rendition of Pryor’s “The Whistler and His Dog.” “The Hunting Scene,” a dashing bit of musical
description, was given with feeling and joyous spontaneity. The famous “Light Cavalry Overture” of von Suppe, the standard “American Patrol”
of Meacham, and the pleasing “Songs of the Sunny South” of Johnson & Hobbs.------------ F. Stinett (27) | Sprints and
hurdles will have to be | tussle will ensue when the Tigers and | Wildcats meet. Johnnie Schenck, former Clemson
captain, will be in action against his old teammates. Substitutions — Greensboro: Meyers for Forsythe; Johnson (4) for Irving; Fluhearty
(2) for Whiteley. Davidson: Shelton for Johnson. Time: four 7 1/2 minute quarters. Referee: Doubles.

C. Whiteley | taken care of by new men. But these should be found among last year’s scrubs and the
young flock of freshmen who are out. To show that they were not behind the times, the Hipples presented a
saxophone quartette. To judge by the applause, it made the hit of the evening. The quartette featured “The Bullfrog Blues”
and Mr. Hipple on the bass saxophone featured the popular expression “he went South.”

H. C. Larzelere Prop. | The girls' game between the local high and Greensboro proved quite interesting. Although outclassed, the
Davidson team put up a game fight to the end. A certain Miss Stinett, in scoring 27 points for her
team, was the outstanding star of the game.

G. Grey | The most promising men for the sprints are Denniston, Steed, Erwin, McGukin, and Gordon. Denniston has had
to go slow on account of a bad foot, while Erwin has been held up on account of a bad
ankle; but both these men are expected to burn up the track once they get started. In the 440 and
880 Dick, Galloway, and De Lorme are running neck and neck, and it is still a toss-up as to who
will win out.

G. Mooney | Two of the lettermen in the mile are handicapped by injuries. Worth has a bad knee, and
the old “Charlie horse” is still bothering Sprunt. But these may disappear when warm weather gets here. Galloway and Roberts
seem to have the inside track on the other contestants in this event. Davis in the hurdles and McCackill and
Cornellson in the jumps seem to have the edge on their contestants.

G. Forsythe | There is an abundance of weight men. In addition to McLeod, “Big” Knight, Brice, and Doc La
Far are sending the shot and discus wide and far. There are several other men who are showing real class
in this department.

G. Clapp | The inspector will be here Thursday, March 10th. It is desirable that we make upon him the
best impression possible. We need have no fear that he can find any fault with the systems of administration and
instruction. The only possible danger lies in what he may think of us, ourselves, and of how we receive the
instruction, and conduct ourselves in general. He will note our general appearance, our conduct at drill and off duty, and
our entire attitude, which will be shown by everything that we do. Any number of seemingly little things, such as
untidiness of dress, failure to salute, inattention at drill, or dirty equipment, may make an impression that cannot be effaced
by some of the other greater things in which we may really excel. In a word, it is the little
things that count, both in appearance and conduct.

The following points should be noted, and careful attention given to observing them:
1. Uniform in best possible condition and pressed; shoes shined; leggings neatly wrapped; cap correctly shaped; insignia properly attached (R.
O. T. C. patches sewed on).
2. Face shaved and hair cut.
3. All equipment clean; web equipment properly adjusted.
4. Precise saluting, and military bearing on all occasions. We must look the part.
5. Order and attentiveness at drill.
6. Promptness and decision in answering any questions the inspector or instructor may ask. Bear in mind that it is
better to give a wrong answer as if you meant it than to hesitate or say you do not know.
Let each man in the Corps consider it his special duty to “shoot” the inspector. And let us determine that
we will show the best that is in us.

In order that uniforms may be put in shape, the uniforms will not be required at either drill or class
after today, Wednesday, March 2nd, until next Wednesday, March 9th. During that time, have your uniforms cleaned and pressed.

—Wildcats— | Track practice has started in earnest now and prospects are bright for another championship. Sprunt is looking promising.
He is in great trim and promises to be a good man. Dick and De Lorme are holding up the
work in the middle distances. Galloway, a promising lad from Georgia, is wading into the distances in grand order. Knight
is tossing the weights close to the record marks already and promises to break one or two records before the
season is over. Green is holding down things in the high jump and pole vault.

—Wildcats— | Basketball schedule for the next few days:
Thursday, March 3—Davidson vs. Wofford at Charlotte.
Friday, March 4—N. C. State vs. Wake Forest at Raleigh.
Saturday, March 5—University of N. C. vs. University of Va., at Raleigh.
Wednesday, March 9—N. C. State vs. Trinity, at Raleigh.

—Wildcats— | Dry leaders of Holland have announced that they will make a determined effort to secure the adoption of
a local option bill in the next session of the Netherlands parliament.

—Wildcats— | “What a happy world this would be if everybody were cheerful.”

APPRECIATIVE AUDIENCE GREETS GLEE CLUB AT MOORESVILLE | The 18 jolly, mirth-loving sons of Timotheus once more donned their “stiff-bosoms”
and made their departure for Mooresville last Friday evening, via Mt. Mourne. The club left the college at seven-thirty and
arrived at the high school where the concert was given, to find the auditorium filled with enthusiastic admirers of the
boys. They performed with a marked degree of excellence from the very first chord till the last note of “Of
Davidson.”
