THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1921.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATERS SELECTED IN BOTH SOCIETIES
Ogden, Davidson, and R. H. Smith Win Places in Eu—Burney, Bradford, and A. S. Mellwaine in Phi.

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES

Christian Activities
Long, L. W. Dick, Dave Roberts, and Lewis Schenck. The fourfold purpose of this campaign was to appeal to the
boys for clean living, clean athletics, clean speech, and clean scholarship.

THE BIBLE AS LITERATURE.
Macaulay
The English Bible, a book, which, if everything else in our language should perish, would alone suffice to show the
whole extent of its beauty and power.

On the evening of Monday, February 14th, the annual Fresh-Soph debate was held in both societies. The Eu debate on
Friday morning Dwight Chalmers starting at about 7:30 was waged continuously until 10:30 when the decision of the judges was
rendered. For such a long-winded forensic fray, the contest was full of interest. The committee consisting of Drs. Richards and
Harding and Prof. Erwin were called hurriedly to the hall as the selection had been put off till then.

Dave Roberts and Lewis Schenck spoke. Prof. Erwin said that it had indeed been a debate concerning the victors.

Gladstone
The Bible is stamped with specialty of origin, and an immeasurable distance separates it from all competitors.

Joseph H. Choate
The Bible is the only book for thinkers, readers, scholars, speakers, men, women, and children; if we can have only
one book, O save us that.

Life,” in which they took up and discussed the secret of true manhood. These meetings on a whole were very
successful and were the beginning of a series of such meetings that the deputation committee of the Davidson Y. M.
C. A. Smith, R. H., Hudgins, Haney, Davidson, Morris, Fain, and Gamble. Negative: Ogden, Elkins, Walthall, Easley, Moore, and Smith,
H. H. Of the above named, Smith, R. H.,

President Remsen
There is a woeful lack of good English in the schools and colleges of our country, due to neglect of
Bible reading. This condition is a grave menace to the literature of America.

INTER-RACIAL PROBLEMS
(Continued from page 1)
grievances from the negro’s point of view. First is inequality of economic opportunity. He told of negroes not being given
proper chances in industry and of frequently receiving unequal pay for equal services rendered. Second, is unequal railroad accommodations. He
spoke of the lack of room and of the unhealthy conditions allowed in the negro coaches. The negro holds his
destiny in his own hands, the speaker said, and he told his hearers that he teaches his students that right
living by them will do much to solve the race problems, and that it is worth infinitely more to make
good use of rights granted than to waste time complaining for rights denied. As definite measures toward a better understanding
and an allaying of race hatred, Dr. McCrory urged that in large cities and congested communities inter-racial committees be established,
that inter-racial conferences be held, and that the university commissions to study the problems be promoted. The intelligent Christian college
men can do much toward a better feeling being established. He said that there is need in both races of
better men and women,

The query of the debate read: Resolved, that the Smith-Towner Education Bill should be adopted and the campaign closed on
Sunday afternoon with appealing addresses from Schenck and Roberts. The following took part: Affirmative, Ives, Smith, R. H., Hudgins, Haney,
Davidson, Morris, Fain, and Gamble. Negative: Ogden, Elkins, Walthall, Easley, Moore, and Smith, H. H. Of the above named, Smith,
R. H.,

TAYLOR
Superior Quality Equipment
TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL, TRACK, CAMP BALLS, FOOTBALL
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., INC.
26 E. 42nd St.
The Macamac Company Agents

THE PARABLE OF THE DUCK.
Have you ever heard of a duck that could not swim? No? Well, this duck, like many other ducks nowadays,
was born in an incubator, but was not allowed to go near the water. After he became a grown-up duck,
he found himself in the middle of a pond, but—he nearly drowned. That is a funny opening, isn’t it? The
point is this: We must either use or lose our instincts. Every man on Davidson campus has a sense of
justice, of kindness, or you may say a religious instinct. Once a week we have an opportunity to develop this
highest of all instincts. Last Sunday morning 12 Bible classes were conspicuous by their lack of interest, and 270 fellows
were a little forgetful about the time of meeting. And “Jim” McKeldin is back of this heart and soul. Can't
the rest of the fellows back him up? How about a hundred percent next Sunday?

COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

DR. RICHARDS PREACHES ON THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
Dr. C. M. Richards spoke Sunday morning on the Tree of Knowledge or the Testing Tree, and the Tree of
Life. The Testing Tree proves the test of willingness and of disobedience. The Tree of Life represents the Eternal Life
as Christ said, “To him that overcometh I will give to eat of the Tree of Life which is in
the midst of the garden.” “The Tree of Knowledge,” Dr. Richards said, “was nothing more than the test of willingness
by God. There was no sin or immorality concerned with it. Satan, an outside power, hostile to God and man,
caused the disobedience of mankind, and thus made it a ‘Tree of Temptation.’ God makes it a test; Satan makes
it temptation. And he said, furthermore, ‘Go where you will, do what you may, live alone—in the garden of life
there will always be this Tree in the midst where Satan is seducing mankind.’ The fool will take the easiest
way and that to destruction.”Wise man, understanding that every bite of the forbidden fruit is taking away a little bit
of good, pure, and heavenly part of the heart. On the other hand, it is adding a little more malicious,
impure, and devilish food for the soul. The reason why we should not eat of the forbidden fruit is that
we can’t have both. Also, Christ said, “To the one who fought and overcame, to him will I give to
eat of the Tree of Life which is in the midst of the garden.”

MEMBERS OF DAVIDSON “Y” AID IN SALISBURY CAMPAIGN.

Beginning on Tuesday, the 8th, and running through Sunday, a Four C’s campaign was successfully conducted in Salisbury, under the
auspices of the Y. M. C. A. The latter half of the campaign was conducted by Dwight Chalmers and four
Davidson students, Flynn, The Hoover & Smith Co.

OFFICIAL FRATERNITY

Indoor Athletic Sports
Basketball
Handball
Volleyball
Bag, Etc.

The Mark of Quality on All Articles
Athletic
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Have these old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
28 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298

A. expects to conduct during the spring.

DEPUTATION WORK OF VOLUNTEER BAND NOW WELL UNDERWAY.

Four Churches of Concord Presbytery Visited by Students Last Sunday—Other Appointments

Under the able direction of Rolston Bitzer, the deputation work of the Student Volunteer Band is having noteworthy success. The
number of deputations being sent out is on the increase, and extensive plans are being made for the future. On
Sunday just past, two deputations visited neighboring fields, the first consisting of “Mac” Richards and Baba, the second of “Ed”
Cunningham and “Ted” Jones.

“Mac” and Baba went to Concord, N. C., where they were given a most cordial reception. Sunday morning they spoke
at the Second Presbyterian Church before an audience of approximately 150; Sunday evening at Bayliss Memorial Church to about 75.
“Mac” discussed the need of the world for more missionaries, and Baba applied this need to a particular country—Persia. Many
persons showed their interest by talking with the fellows after the service, and literature taken along for the purpose was
given to those desiring it.

The second deputation, made up of “Ed” Cunningham and “Ted” Jones, visited the Back Creek and Thyatira Churches, about 10
miles above Salisbury. About 200 were in attendance at Back Creek Sunday morning, and about 900 at Thyatira Sunday afternoon.
“Ed” spoke of the needs of the foreign fields along all lines; “Ted” Jones on “Consecration for Service,” taking up
the questions Who? How? and Why? Great interest was manifested at both places, and one person volunteered for a life
of Christian service.

Next week “Buck” Curry and “Bill” Crane are going to Charlotte to speak at the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church and
at the Pegram Street Church, and it is hoped that they can accomplish much by their visit.

PRELIMINARIES FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATES WILL BE HELD TOMORROW.

The preliminaries of the intercollegiate debates with Mercer and Wake Forest will be held in the respective society halls Friday,
the 18th. Four men will be selected from each society to speak in the finals when four principals and two
alternates will be selected. The subject used will be, “Resolved, That the United States should cancel the war debts of
the Allies.” This subject will be used in the debate with Wake Forest, Davidson having the affirmative side of the
question. Mercer has not selected the subject she wishes in our debate with her.

Among those who are out for this debate are Mitchell, Ormond, A. P., Boulware, and Bitzer, for the “Eus,” and
Dunlap, Roberts, Flynn, and Chal Long, and Clark, for the Phis. The men who made the teams last fall have
been declared ineligible for places in this contest.

Better boys and girls to make better men and women for the future, better homes in which to train those
boys and girls, and Christ in the fathers and mothers, that they may teach their children aright. When we get
closer to God, then and then only will men get right with each other. The large attendance was an indication
of the interest manifested in the meeting, and no one was disappointed.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON

Hillhouse as alternate. These men will uphold the Eu in the inter-society debate with the Phis. The same question was
debated in the Phi Society. The affirmative was represented by three Freshmen, W. Z. Bradford, A. S. McIlwaine, and E.
N. Peeler. The negative was represented by two Sophomores, M. P. Calhoun and L. P. Burney. The debaters showed thorough
preparation and plenty of effort. Each was allowed eight minutes for his first speech and including the rebuttal. When the
debate was finished, the contestants were ordered to retire. The judges, who were Drs. J. M. McConnell, Currie, and Shewmake,
then made their decision. Three debaters and an alternate were chosen. L. P. Burney, W. Z. Bradford, and A. S.
McIlwaine were the fortunate ones, with M. P. Calhoun as alternate.

Miss Eloise Martin, together with Miss Elliott and Miss West of Converse, spent the weekend at home.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the ushering in of a new art. No extra
charge for glossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co.
Atlanta, Georgia

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories
