4 ee The Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press. FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15 “The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the
Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year. All Articles for Publication in the hands of
the Managing Editor before Tuesday night. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief J.M. Riche
Managing Editor W. A. Gamble, Jr.
Assistant Managing Editor R.F. Davidson
Assignment Editor J.P. Price
Athletic Editor A.F. Jones
Alumni Editor I.C. Bailey
Forum Editor A.F. Jones
Campus Editor I.C. Bailey
Y.M.C.A. Editor J. Sprunt
Social Editor J.T. Jones
Literary Editor W.T. Cooper
Publicity Editor J. Sprunt

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Mitchell, A. M. Cunningham, C. E. Lacy, C. G. Morris, H. M. Jones, J. R.
Mahood, D. L. Phillips, J. W. King, A. D. Mauze, G. W. Tuller, C. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. S. Curry - Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
J. C. Wool - Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“You can’t judge what a man gets out of college by the amount of money he spends.”

Every man in the Student Body should be at the station to meet the baseball team when it comes in
tomorrow. We can do no less to show them our appreciation of their efforts.

There has been some increase in the volume of cheering at our games, but there is still much room for
improvement. With Wake Forest, Elon, and Citadel on the hill next week, there will be need of more pep than
has been shown yet, and a chance for the manifestation of real school spirit.

While we are so much taken up with athletics, let us not forget our two intercollegiate debating teams and their
approaching contests. These men are working just as hard and doing their bit for the honor of Old Davidson.

“There is a place for every man and it is the duty of man to find it.”

There was a time in the history of Davidson when the coming of Commencement was an event looked forward to
from one year’s end to another. The student body took interest and pride in preparing for the occasion. Literary and
social events were combined into one program for the pleasure and benefit of all, and the ending of the school
year meant much in the life of the college. That time has passed.

For some years past, the students have manifested absolutely no interest in the occasion. Whatever may be the cause of
this attitude, the blame certainly cannot be laid on the program. Speakers of the greatest ability and eloquence have been
secured, only to deliver a literary address or a sermon before the Y.M.C.A. to a mere handful of fifty or
sixty boys. Practically no members of the student body outside of the Seniors are present at the exercises, and they
attend merely in the spirit of enduring a necessary evil in the securing of a diploma.

That such a condition should exist is a regrettable circumstance, but it is nevertheless a stern fact. There are few
who would deny that it should be changed. The question is how to change it in order to make Commencement
an attractive event for the students themselves. If they will only remain for the exercises, there will be little difficulty
in securing the attendance of large numbers of the alumni and other visitors.

This year’s Junior Class met a long-felt need on the campus by making Junior Speaking a real social event. Can
the Senior Class do the same for Commencement? The difficulties that lie in the way are necessarily even greater than
those which faced the Juniors, because this event comes at the time when every student is anxious to get home
to his summer’s work at the earliest opportunity; but there must be a solution to the problem. We believe that
you have the ability to meet and change this condition. If you can, you will have done much to win
the permanent gratitude of your Alma Mater. The men who star on Sprunt Field represent Davidson just as truly as
the men who star in the classroom. CAN YOU DO IT, SENIORS?

DAVIDSON ENTERS WRITING CONTESTS OF COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION.

Davidson's representatives in the journalistic contest of the North Carolina College Press Association are: W. A. Gamble, Jr., and W.
J. Cooper, representing The Davidsonian; D. R. Freeman, R. R. McIlwaine, and R. K. Shaw, representing the Magazine.

Each of the contestants representing The Davidsonian will enter three articles: a feature story, a news article, and an editorial.
Representing the Magazine, Freeman will enter a poem, McIlwaine an essay, and Shaw a short story.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

NOTE—To any student or alumni who ever had an original thought, this little word is directed. The Forum is essentially
a place where those who have nothing to do with the publishing of the Davidsonian can air their opinions. There
are bound to be things in connection with the college, campus life, athletics, literary activities, that we are always cussing
or discussing, or if not, matters that we have given pretty deep thought. Why not let the rest of us
have the benefit of the working of your brain?

You Alumni—You have been away from the college and can see things in a different light from what you did
when you were here. Why not write to those of us who are here now and tell us what you
like about the old place or what you think could be improved?

You Students—Day after day you see things around the campus that you think are fine, or those that could be
improved on. Why not tell us about them? Maybe the little that you say will bring about great results. Remember
that it was the dropping of an apple that started Newton to thinking about the laws of motion.

To anyone who can write a legible hand, to anyone who has ideas of his own, to anyone that can
write an article that can pass the board of censorship—this column is at your service. Make use of it whenever
the spirit moves you. Mail any articles to The Forum Editor, Box 33.

FOR THE GOOD OF ALL.

To the powers that be: Some time back the library hours were changed in the mornings to 9-10:30 instead of
12 to 1:30 because it was thought that more students would have this period vacant for library use. But this,
it seems, is still not a convenient time to have the library open. Most of the students have classes at
this period in the morning, and if they have a vacant period it is not time enough to do much
reading, and there is generally some lesson of the day to get up. So in view of these facts, why
not change the hours again. Instead of opening the library in the morning, when everybody is busy, why not keep
it open from, say 7 to 8:30, after supper. This would give the students ample time to do parallel reading
for the following day and not interfere with their night study.

In the afternoon the average student is tired of classroom work and does not feel like going over to the
library and reading the remainder of the evening. Especially is this true of those who have laboratories up to 4
o’clock and after. How much better it would be to have an hour and a half after supper in which
to really get some good out of all the good books which are now unavailable to the average student. Because
of the fact that he is not going to sacrifice his few hours of exercise in the afternoon to his
library reading, the reading is neglected. Why not change the hours for the good of all.

“The Book Lover.”

NEW DEPARTMENT ADDED TO DAVIDSONIAN ORGANIZATION.

With the new Davidsonian staff comes a new department, thePublicity Department. This addition will fill a long-felt need in bringing
Davidson into a closer relationship with the other colleges of North Carolina and will be a great advertisement for the
college as well as individual members of the student body. W. J. Cooper, the Publicity Editor, has outlined a definite
working basis for the department. A questionnaire will be given to each member of the student body to fill out
in a week or two, which will furnish information for an elaborate card index of every man in college. When
any man attains distinction here on the campus, his home paper will be favored with a write-up. Arrangements have been
made with prominent daily newspapers to run feature write-ups of the college. It has also been arranged to have the
Associated Press write up any important events here, which will be sent over the country as one of their regular
news items. The department will not only communicate with daily papers but also with the other papers of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Each college paper will send out a sheet containing the most important college news of the
week to the other colleges of the association. The student bodies of each college will thus be informed as to
what the other Carolina student bodies are doing.

N.C. C. P. A. NEWS SERVICE

STUDENT GOVERNMENT GROWING POPULAR IN N. C. COLLEGES.

Queens College, April 2—Queens will have student government next year. This matter has been pending for several months and was
settled two weeks ago when Dr. Fraser, the new president, visited the college. Student government officers will be elected the
latter part of April.

N. C. State, March 23—On March 8th the student body voted to adopt student government. This system will be effective
upon the approval of the board of trustees. We think that this is one of the most forward movements ever
made in the history of the college.

Guilford College, April 2—The Girl's Student Government Association at Guilford has adopted a new constitution which includes a revision of
many of its old principles and also incorporates the new methods which have proven successful in other institutions similar to
Guilford.

ELON TO OFFER UNIQUE COURSE.

Elon College, April 5—Elon College will offer next year a course having as its object the training of men to
render efficient service in the largest boys’ organization in the world, the Boy Scouts of America. This course will take
up a study of the Organization and Administration of the Scout Program, the principles of psychology upon which it is
based, and the practical work in handling a Scout Troop, administering the Scout tests, and studying such phases of scoutcraft
as camping, camp cooking, hiking, signaling, etc. This course will be in charge of the Scoutmaster of the Elon Scouts,
who will arrange for experts in the different fields of scoutcraft to assist in making the course of utmost value
to those who take it.

GEOLOGY CLASS TAKES INTERESTING TRIP

Chapel Hill, April 8—Under the direction of Dr. Prouty, head of the Geological Department, and Mr. J. B. Miller, graduate
student, a trip of inspection was taken by a number of geological students through the fossil beds of Virginia during
the recent Easter holidays. The trip lasted for six days and all report a very profitable journey. Lynchburg, Roanoke, Salem,
and Catawba Valley were included in the tour and the party camped for a time in the Catawba Valley.

COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION MEETS HERE MARCH 22-23.

On March 22nd and 23rd, the Davidson College Magazine and The Davidsonian were hosts to the North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association. The association was formed about two months ago with Eris Cassell, of Davidson, as the first president. The members
of the association are: The Tar Heel, The Carolina Magazine, The Trinity Chronicle, The Trinity Archive, Old Gold and Black,
The Acorn, Queens Blues, The Davidsonian, The Carolinian, The Corraddi, The Salemite, The Guilfordian, Maroon and Gold, Davidson College Magazine,
The Greensboro College Literary Magazine. There were about thirty representatives at the meeting.

ODDS AND ENDS.

The faculty have invited Hon. John Skelton Williams to be the commencement speaker this year.—(N. C. State).

The Regiment will soon give a review in honor of the various clubs of Raleigh.—(N. C. State).

Maj. R. R. Moton, president of Tuskegee Institute, addressed the student body on March 25th.—(N. C. State).

Dr. Wright, of Yale University, gave a series of lectures on March 16th-17th to the Promotion Force of the “Y.”
His subjects were on “Winning Men for Christ.”—(N. C. State).

Miss Helene Hickson, of the class of ‘23, was elected Editor-in-chief of “Queens Blues” for 1921-1922, on March 30th—(Queens College).

(Editor's Note—Under the caption “Odds and Ends,” it is planned to give every week several short but interesting articles from
the N.C. C. P. News Service. They will be given as received except where abridgment may be necessary in some
few instances).
